US	49285965	R3UWL9TT2Q6IAO	1570718229	981910694	Real People Don't Own Monkeys: And Other Stories of Pets, Their People and the Vets Who See It All	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Welcome to the Real World of Dr. Kiklevich	This book is guaranteed to make to you laugh, cry and exclaim in wonder and indignation as you follow the author through her thoroughly \\"real,\\" but remarkably fanciful day-to-day experiences as a small animal vet.  It seems almost impossible that one person could have encountered so many characters in a single lifetime.  On the other hand, as you will quickly surmise within the first 10 pages of the book, Dr. Veronika Kiklevich is no ordinary vet.<br />Here is a woman with a wicked sense of humor, the stamina of a steam engine and an absolute commitment to the well-being of animals.  This commitment leads her into all sorts of peculiar, poignant and occasionally dangerous adventures.  We hear of her time spent as the vet for a wolf pack, her confrontation with a co-worker who is subsequently fired for cruelty, the vacation spent on a tropical island neutering cats, and her blatant manipulation of friends, family, co-workers and casual acquaintances in her quest to find homes for abandoned pets.<br />Not surprisingly, there are stories about human beings as well - the elegant, eloquent doctor who spared no expense on his dog's care, but turned out to be an imposter wanted in several states for forgery; the \\"special look\\" as she calls it (think \\"1980's grunge with may be a faint overlay of whips-and-chains panache\\") of Iguana owners; and the money hungry vet who liked to add \\"aggravation charges\\" to his clients' bills.<br />It is appropriate that all is not fun and laughter in this book, despite its author's gift for telling a ribald tale.  Hers is a world where grisly things happen, and she makes no attempt to hide the gory details.  Many a time I found myself setting the book aside, taking and deep breath and thinking, \\"whoa.\\"  However, if you can handle the heat this is a book that will delight, entertain and enlighten.  Somehow the world seems like a better place knowing Dr. Kiklevich is out there practicing medicine.	2002-06-06
US	49285965	R2Y29WDHO5NI7W	1573228257	381435705	Where Rivers Change Direction	Books	4	34	35	N	N	The Child's Truth	What makes this book extraordinary is the author's ability to reach back into his child self, to recreate for the reader what it was like to be a young boy growing up in the foothills of the Wyoming wilderness, intimately connected to his natural surroundings and the creatures that inhabit it.<br />Horses, we discover, are much more than a means of making a living.  They are part of this boy's blood, welded to his bone structure, and tuned to his thoughts.  And it is through this fusion of boy and horse that we get our first glimpse of what it's like to live on the edge of wilderness, subject to the whims of high altitude weather, sharing the landscape with grizzlies, elk, coyotes and coons, and learning from an early age to deal with danger and pain.<br />As the book unfolds in a series of episodes, each a self-contained story connected by the boy's evolving perspective, we learn about how this harsh country shapes and defines its inhabitants.  We learn about knives and guns, gentling horses and hunting bears, drunken cooks and the reality of death.  This is a world that leaves little room for daydreams, but fills the heart and mind nevertheless with the vibrancy of life.<br />Rarely has a book touched me with such immediacy and precision.  Anyone who has been out in the wilds as a child will immediately recognize and respond to the young boy's awareness of his place in the world, his connectedness to all things.  If the book lacks anything, it is completion and resolution.  The stories found later in the book are full of the author's adult dilemmas stemming from a childhood lived so far outside the norm.  He struggles with cities and relationships, his need for isolation and the demands of family. Finally, he must come to terms with his mother's lingering death, which ends the book on a sad and frustrating note. This is an absolutely exquisite book, containing some of the finest writing I've ever read, but one that ultimately feels incomplete.	2002-05-11
US	49285965	R1X9YSWKHQU4R5	0679759263	127056417	The Soloist	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Coming to Terms with Life	As a writer, Mark Salzman is always pushing his limits, and The Soloist is no exception.  The story revolves around a music professor, Reinhart Sundheimer, who as a child was an acclaimed cellist.  He has been unable to play professionally ever since he became overly focused on pitch.  Despite his best efforts, he can never produce a note that is absolutely perfect (no one can), and his playing has lost its spontaneity and fluidity.  Clearly depressed by his perceived failure, he has led an extraordinarily isolated and lonely life for years, without even a pet to keep him company.  Then two things happen to propel him out of his rut - he is chosen to be a juror in a murder trial, and is asked to give cello lessons to a young Korean boy who is clearly exceptionally gifted.<br />The murder trial exposes him to a whole new group of people whose lives do not revolve around classical music.  It also forces him to question and re-question his beliefs about motivation as he struggles to decide whether the defendant in the trial was insane when he committed the crime.  Likewise his cello student, whose parents would prefer he acquire a skill that would be useful in the family's laundry business, helps him get beyond his narrow focus and see his own childhood in a fresh light.<br />This is a complex story, and Salzman does a good job of weaving the past and present, and amusingly contradictory scenes of Reinhart's life into a comprehensive whole.  The one problem I had was with Reinhart's sudden and rather unbelievable catharsis at the top of a mountain (Mt. Wilson in Southern California's San Gabriel Mountains to be exact).  While the sudden insights into the nature of his failure as a cellist, his inability to form lasting and intimate relationships with women and the importance of his work are well prepared for, up until this point Salzman's character has shown very little self-insight.  He has related the events in his life, and talked about the unhappiness and confusion they have caused him, but he seems clueless when it comes to the cause.  Even granted the compelling circumstances that have forced him to see his life in a different light, it's hard to believe that Reinhart would hike to the top of a mountain and put all the pieces of his psychological dilemma together in one evening.  Moreover, there were many times in the story when I expected Reinhart to put two and two together, but he doesn't.  As a result, there is a clear break in the book between life before the mountain and life after.  Life before is all about \\"showing,\\" and life after is all about \\"telling.\\"  Since the mountain scene occurs near the end, the book seems to fade away as Salzman sums up how Reinhart's life is changed by his revelation.  I found this very unsatisfying and couldn't help but suspect that some higher up in the publishing world told Salzman his story was getting a little long and he should wrap things up.  As all writer's know, telling is never as satisfying as showing, and it's a shame that Salzman didn't take the time and space to give us an ending that lived up to the promise of the rest of the book.sion they have caused him, but he seems clueless when it comes to the cause.  Even granted the compelling circumstances that have forced him to see his life in a different light, it's hard to believe that Reinhart would hike to the top of a mountain and put all the pieces of his psychological dilemma together in one evening.  Moreover, there were many times in the story when I expected Reinhart to put two and two together, but he doesn't.  As a result, there is a clear break in the book between life before the mountain and life after.  Life before is all about \\"showing,\\" and life after is all about \\"telling.\\"  Since the mountain scene occurs near the end, the book seems to fade away as Salzman sums up how Reinhart's life is changed by his revelation.  I found this very unsatisfying and couldn't help but suspect that some higher up in the publishing world told Salzman his story was getting a little long and he should wrap things up.   As all writer's know, telling is never as satisfying as showing, and it's a shame that Salzman didn't take the time and space to give us an ending that lived up to the promise of the rest of the book.	2002-04-27
US	49285965	R7UBXGIG2QKXK	0312278586	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	5	99	111	N	N	Nanny Knows It All	Nanny Knows It All<br />Although I expected this book to be funny, having heard that it delves deep into the quirks of New York's wealthy elite, I was not prepared for the feelings of indignation, dismay and embarrassment it evoked as well.  Beneath the simple story line - a twenty something college student works as a nanny to pay the rent - lays a minefield of human dysfunction.  There is the mother who can't stand to touch or be with her child for more than a few minutes, and only then if he is completely clean; the father who routinely fails to show up for preplanned family events such as trips to Aspen, Christmas parties and dinner parties; the father's mistress who tries to enlist Nanny in her secret trysts; and the father's secretary who is always covering for her boss.  And that's just the immediate family.  Things get even more complicated and uncomfortable as Nanny's duties are expanded to include helping the wife shop, run errands and make restaurant reservations.  What saves the novel from becoming just another tawdry soap opera is the skillful development of the relationship between Nanny and her 4-year old charge Grayer, and the healthy reality checks provided by Nan's (Nannny) outspoken and eminently practical family.<br />Like all young children, Grayer can be a terror. He bites, he kicks, he refuses to play nicely, and at first he can't stand the sight of Nanny who has come to replace his previous and much loved caretaker, Caitlin.  However, as time goes on Grayer and Nanny hammer out a relationship and a routine they both can enjoy.  However, as the tension builds between Grayer's parents, becomes clear that a meltdown is inevitable.  What makes it almost unbearable is Grayer's vulnerability and Nanny's inability to protect him.  Be prepared for humor laced with bitterness and sorrow as The Nanny Diaries proves that in the midst of abundance it is possible to starve from lack of love.	2002-04-27
US	49285965	R2QOJID2OOD5G1	0375706933	985414595	My Cat Spit McGee	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Author on Vacation?	Fans of My Dog Skip may find that Spit McGee lacks the special spark that made Skip so memorable. Part of the problem stems from the author's compulsion to tell stories about dogs rather then cats. This is his way of explaining why he always considered dogs superior to cats, but it derails the story before it ever gets started. The other problem is that the author doesn't seem to have a clear goal or intention in mind as he's writing. After the extended explanation and stories about dogs, we learn how Spit came to be part of his life by way of his relationship with the Cat Woman. The Cat Woman, who sounds rather interesting and I would have enjoyed hearing more about, never develops into more than a background presence. Instead, the author moves on to a series of anecdotes and philosophical ramblings, which are vaguely connected to his childhood. Although Spit's behavior, like that of all cats, can be both mysterious and hilarious at times, these short scenarios don't seem to be headed anywhere. It's clear that Spit McGee and the author have formed a working partnership and are quite fond of one another, but this isn't really enough to hang a whole book on. Of course not all books have to go from point A to point B to point C and so on, but it's always nice if there is a unifying theme or some clear reason for having collected all the data under a single title. For me, this book was disappointing, particularly coming from an author who has proven he is capable of offering up writing that gives real insight into the relationships between people and their animals.	2002-04-27
US	49285965	R27YQEIF8P8BDW	0767903382	11518396	Tender at the Bone: Growing Up at the Table	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Surviving Childhood	My hat goes off to Ruth Reichel for being able to write with such clarity, wit and savior faire about a childhood that was clearly fraught with emotional trauma.<br />Reichel, the daughter of a manic-depressive whose wild mood swings and irrational behavior ruled the household, did not have a normal childhood. Her mother had peculiar ideas not only about how children should be raised, but about cooking, interior decoration, entertaining and fashion as well. She was in the habit, for example, of buying discounted food in large quantities and allowing it to sit in the refrigerator until mold was well established before serving it to family and friends. Another peculiar trait was her penchant for partially redecorating the interior of their home (her enthusiasm always waned before she completed the project) and selling off their summer homes in order to build new ones.<br />Throughout her childhood Ruth seems to have lived in a perpetual state of chaos and uncertainty, never knowing when her mother would embark on a new self-improvement project or money making scheme. There was, for example, the day that her mother picked Ruth up from school, and without any preparation or explanation, drove all the way to Canada. There she deposited Ruth in a Catholic boarding school where only French was spoken, saying that she felt it was important for children to be bilingual. Not surprisingly, Ruth, who spoke not a word of French, was devastated by the loss of her friends, the isolation that resulted from being unable to communicate, and the ridicule heaped upon her by her teachers and classmates until she gradually learned to speak the language. No amount of phone calls, tears or letter writing could persuade her mother to change her mind, and Ruth's father seemed incapable of standing up to or saying no to his wife.<br />A less tenacious and resilient person might have cracked under the strain of such an upbringing, but Reichel has turned her decidedly difficult childhood into a funny, bittersweet story that celebrates life at its quirkiest. I found myself alternately furious with Ruth's parents and laughing out loud at her creative solutions to the curve balls her mother was forever throwing her way. Likewise, I couldn't help but applaud her strength when she was finally able to stand up to her mother by imposing order and reason on what promised to be yet another disastrous situation. This is a book that delivers on many levels. Five stars.a funny, bittersweet story that celebrates life at its quirkiest. I found myself alternately furious with Ruth's parents and laughing out loud at her creative solutions to the curve balls her mother was forever throwing her way. Likewise, I couldn't help but applaud her strength when she was finally able to stand up to her mother by imposing order and reason on what promised to be yet another disastrous situation. This is a book that delivers on many levels. Five stars.	2002-04-16
US	49285965	RHNAF81IRZ44H	0679767789	556287238	Lost In Place: Growing Up Absurd in Suburbia	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Diamond in the Rough	Having read Iron and Silk first, I confess to being a bit disappointed by Lost in Place.  I suppose that's to be expected since at least some of the maturity and self-awareness that Salzman demonstrates in Iron and Silk can be attributed to what he learned growing up as a Kung Fu obsessed adolescent in rural Connecticut.  However, reading about Salzman's early struggles was both tiresome and painful.  Like many gifted and imaginative kids, Salzman didn't exactly fit in at school, and seems to have sensed his father's desolation at an early age.  Determined to escape the same fate, he embarks on a unique quest to find and make something of himself.  The methods he employs are both unusual and incredibly compulsive.  There is the time he sits for hours for days on end in a cardboard box to prepare himself to be an astronaut, and the months he spends burning incense and meditating in the family basement in an effort to become enlightened.  The most single-minded and obsessive thing he does by far, however, is to begin studying Kung Fu.  The head teacher is a violent alcoholic who abuses his students physically, verbally and psychologically.  Despite several broken bones and regular thrashings at the hands of this man, it takes Salzman many long years to realize his teacher has a problem.<br />Kung Fu is but the first in a series of obsessions for Salzman, and the reader is treated to an uncomfortable rendition of each.  What saves the book from being just another ho hum growing up tale is Salzman's knack for making fun of himself and ability to probe beneath the raw spots for a look at what is really going on in his psyche.  He is at his best when describing the conversations he had with his father while they studied the stars, and his time working in the mailroom of a large office building.  Other memorable moments include his realization that he will never become a concert cellist after hearing YoYo Ma play, his meeting with a famous Chinese scholar at Yale, and his participation in the funeral of his best friend.  All in all, this is a book that no fan of Salzman should miss since it clearly laid the groundwork for Iron and Silk.  Just don't expect it to shine with the sweetness and balance that has characterized Salzman's more recent work.his participation in the funeral of his best friend.  All in all, this is a book that no fan of Salzman should miss since it clearly laid the groundwork for Iron and Silk.  Just don't expect it to shine with the sweetness and balance that has characterized Salzman's more recent work.	2002-04-11
US	49285965	R1AGKNFSDAIBSF	0345432711	339553793	Hilary and Jackie: The True Story of Two Sisters Who Shared a Passion, a Madness and a Man	Books	4	21	25	N	N	An All Consuming Gift	An All Consuming Gift<br />This is a tough book to read. Ostensibly it is the story of the famous cellist Jacqueline du Pre as told by her older sister Hilary and her younger brother Piers. What emerges, however, is a testament to how one person's overwhelming needs and passions can color and overshadow the lives of those around her. Both Hilary and Piers talk about and relate the main incidents in Jackie's (Jacqueline's nickname) upbringing and life, but woven into those incidents are their own struggles to find and maintain their identities in a family that was focused around a star. Hilary in particular, a gifted and promising musician in her own right, was dealt a heavy blow as her younger sister's gifts began to emerge. Although still encouraged to pursue her musical studies, she was clearly assigned a secondary role when it came to time and attention from her mother. Soon the entire household revolved around Jackie - her physical needs, lessons, friends and performance schedule.<br />The book would be easier to get through if the authors were able to include some insight into what went on in their family. Hilary says she thinks that the unusually close bond her mother formed with Jackie had to do with her father dying shortly before Jackie was born. Beyond that, the sad and convoluted tale simply spins itself out with both Hilary and Piers feeling caught in the maelstrom of Jackie's dramatic, often troubled career and personal life.<br />As Jackie becomes more and more isolated and driven by her gifts, Hilary marries and starts a family to escape. Meanwhile Piers, who has flatly refused to have anything to do with music, becomes a pilot in order, as he puts it, \\"...to be appreciated for being me, not just the baby brother of Jacqueline du Pre.\\" Even Derek du Pre, husband of Iris and father of Hilary, Jackie and Piers, buries himself in work, trying not to mind that his wife never has time for their relationship. Even with their own lives firmly established, however, no one in the family is safe from Jackie's needs. In fact, the habit of sacrificing for her is so ingrained in everyone that they are constantly putting their lives on hold and dropping whatever they are doing to take care of her.<br />The greatest tragedy of this complex family saga is, of course, the loss of Jackie to multiple sclerosis. Anyone who has heard a performance by Jacqueline du Pre will find that this story of her life is much like her playing - intrepid, intense, and driven by a passion that left no room for moderation. \\"Was it worth it?\\" I asked myself as I finished the book and set it aside. \\"Or was the price that was paid to foster Jackie's genius too high?\\" I'll leave it up to you to decide.owever, no one in the family is safe from Jackie's needs. In fact, the habit of sacrificing for her is so ingrained in everyone that they are constantly putting their lives on hold and dropping whatever they are doing to take care of her.<br />The greatest tragedy of this complex family saga is, of course, the loss of Jackie to multiple sclerosis. Anyone who has heard a performance by Jacqueline du Pre will find that this story of her life is much like her playing - intrepid, intense, and driven by a passion that left no room for moderation. \\"Was it worth it?\\" I asked myself as I finished the book and set it aside. \\"Or was the price that was paid to foster Jackie's genius too high?\\" I'll leave it up to you to decide.	2002-04-06
US	49285965	R1AUS5M85WYB2U	0394755111	786458413	Iron and Silk	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Many Sides of China	Here is a story that will charm and captivate you.  A young American, who has been fascinated by and studied Chinese martial arts and the Chinese language, goes to China to teach English and discover what the country and its people have to teach him.  Like all foreigners, he encounters roadblocks - the officials who invent regulations, the unwanted attention whenever he goes anywhere in public, the demands on his time and attempts to control his behavior - but Salzman does little more than mention these annoyances.  His real story has to do with how the Chinese respond to his curiosity and desire to learn while he is in their country.<br />One by one teachers appear and agree to take him under their wings.  There is a Chinese literature teacher, a calligraphy master, and most important of all a series of wushu (martial arts) instructors, each with a different view of and approach to his discipline.  In addition, you will be treated to Salzman's amusing and occasionally deeply touching moments of interaction with people of all kinds.  There are the fishermen who try to persuade him to live with them on their boats, his extraordinarily shy medical students, the scholar who translates English books into Chinese, and the young 11-year old boy who has run away from home.  From each encounter Salzman comes away with a gem of insight, a hilarious story to tell or a puzzling problem to ponder. By the time to book comes to a close you too will have come to appreciate and marvel at the diversity and depth of the Chinese people.	2002-03-31
US	49285965	R2GQ2J1H3HLJUG	0375401318	726865659	Breaking Clean	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Coming Clean	What strikes me about this book more than anything else is the bone deep, rock hard grit of it.  The truth of what Blunt lived and managed to distill a sense of self from is told so starkly, so cleanly and without melodrama, that it is at once absolutely believable and fundamentally shocking.<br />Set in western Montana, where Blunt's parents and their ancestors have somehow managed to wrench a living out of a land that is both inordinately harsh and unforgiving, Breaking Clean tells of the birth and upbringing of a small child called Judy and her 4 siblings.  The rules of her childhood home are many and inflexible.  The rules are there for a reason - without them, people die.  Punishment for breaking the rules is immediate, swift and harsh.  There is no time to acknowledge or assuage the hurts of childhood, no tolerance for stepping out of line or wanting something other than what is expected of you.  And so Judy and her siblings grow up cut off from some of the deeper, feeling parts of themselves, which in her case take more than 30 years to surface.<br />As hard as this book is to read at times, it is also worth every cringe, every slap in the face and tear you'll shed, because by the end you realize there is cause to celebrate.  The struggle to survive has shaped Blunt into a writer with depth, courage and clarity.  This book is a reminder that even the most painful experiences can be transformed by the power of words. Don't miss this book.	2002-03-30
US	49285965	R2P9BBJNDJGB11	0393008320	571248325	The Small Room (Norton Library (Paperback))	Books	4	17	18	N	N	The Fish Bowl	Here is another Sarton gem that captures human beings at both their best and most conflicted.  The story revolves around a few months in the lives of the professors and students at a small women's college where some fireworks erupt, involving a brilliant student, plagiarism and accusations of favoritism.<br />The main character and narrator is a young woman named Lucy Winter who has just ended her engagement and is teaching because she can't think of anything else to do.  Happily for both Lucy and the reader, her intelligence, caring and gift for teaching quickly propel her to the forefront of the emerging conflict.<br />The gift of this book is the questions it raises about the process and goals of teaching.  How and when to foster and encourage brilliance?  What allowances, if any, should be made for extraordinary ability?  How to support students without becoming embroiled in their lives?  How to get students excited about learning and thinking for themselves?  And above all, how much of yourself to give as a teacher?  All these questions come and go and come again throughout the book, offering a rich and varied look at what it means to be involved in the process of education.<br />The problems with this book have to do with the limitations of its characters.  They are all in turmoil in one form or another, and their issues seem to be magnified by the fact that they are forever getting together to have a few drinks and talk things out.  Their dependency on alcohol and cigarettes in order to loosen up, get to the bottom of what they are feeling, steady their nerves, and exchange confidences with one another is so striking that the modern reader can't help but think addiction.  While the use of these two \\"habits\\" are clearly stage props in one sense, the need to use them raises questions about how Sarton saw human interaction.  It also gives the book a slightly muddled and hazy quality at times.<br />Despite its limitations, however, this is a book that is well worth reading.  Expect no final resolutions to the tough questions she raises, but plenty of satisfying food for thought instead.l worth reading.  Expect no final resolutions to the tough questions she raises, but plenty of satisfying food for thought instead.	2002-03-30
US	49285965	R8XFDXMZPFOBO	0393315517	206766404	Plant Dreaming Deep	Books	5	54	54	N	N	In Search of Home	This is Sarton's story of her quest for a home that will provide her with physical shelter and the space, solitude, and spiritual sustenance she requires to write. It is also the story of her search to bring all the various parts of her past - her parents and their European roots, precious physical keepsakes, and the spirits of those who had touched her life deeply - together under one roof.<br />Sarton finds what she was looking for in a run down old colonial house in the remote township of Nelson, New Hampshire. There she embarks on renovations and adjustments that profoundly change how she sees and lives her life.<br />For anyone who is interested in Sarton, Plant Dreaming Deep offers a revealing look at the artist's inner procees. It also allows us to see her in the context of a community. Over the course of time, we are introduced her many and charismatic neighbors. There is Bessie Lyman who lived in Turkey and speaks Arabic, Quig the deepely introspective artist, and Mildred his distinguished wife, Newt who helps her with woodchucks, and Perley who helps her transform her land into a garden. And then there are the people who are not physically present who nevertheless seem as real to Sarton as her next door neighbors. Set against the backdrop of the New England seasons, and defined by the various events and crises that occur in her personal and professional lives, the writing is rich with experience and Sarton's own peculiar blend of poetics and matter-of-fact whimsy. This is a book that any fan of Sarton will enjoy.	2002-03-10
US	49285965	R1N44AK9PQ5Z4F	0292715749	434018042	Tales of a Low-Rent Birder	Books	3	14	16	N	Y	Being a Birder	Birders are an odd, if endearing lot, and nowhere is this more apparent (and freely admitted) than in Pete Dunne's Tales of a Low-rent Birder.  Since my interest in birding is only casual, the stories that took birding propensities to extremes, such as the hypothetical SVAT team (think SWAT for birds) composed of 4 quirky members who can't agree on anything and spend their lives tracking down bird sightings, and The Legend of Jesse Mew, a play on the guru followed by his adoring disciples thing, were a bit much for me.  However, his story of finding, following and eventually pulling on a kit string that wound its way across a bird sanctuary (and thereby causing the entire bird population to take wing when the kite rose into the air) was amusing, as was his story of birding with Roger Tory Peterson.  I also enjoyed his attempt to see the world through a peregrine falcon's eyes in \\"Peregrine Going South for the First Time,\\" and his brief profiles of 4 birders who, though very different people, all share the ability to \\"see\\" as told in  \\"A Gift of Vision.\\"<br />However, none of these stories really hit home for me, meaning I didn't find myself reading eagerly with great interest (as I did with Kingbird Highway by Kenn Kaufman, or The Rites of Autumn by Dano O'Brien), or wishing for more once a story ended.  In fact I kept putting the book aside with a feeling of vague dissatisfaction.  Avid birders may have another story to tell, but for me this book was a disappointment.	2002-03-10
US	49285965	R1HALI8QHHO0FS	0865471185	601020682	West With The Night	Books	5	268	281	N	N	The Divided Heart	No less a writer than Ernest Hemingway said about West with the Night, \\"As it is she has written so well, and marvelously well, that I was completely ashamed of myself as a writer. I felt that I was simply a carpenter with words, picking up whatever was furnished on the job and nailing them together and sometimes making an okay pigpen. But she can write rings around all of us who consider ourselves as writers.\\" Coming from an author who was renowned for his ego and lack of respect for other writers, this is high praise indeed, and West with the Night deserves it.<br />The story opens with the author being called in the middle of the night to deliver a tank of oxygen to a dying man. The reason she has been called is because her business is flying a small bi-plane through the wilds of Africa on delivery errands such as these. The flight and subsequent visit with the dying man and his doctor are used to introduce us to Africa - the rich black nights, the stories of her native peoples, the harsh reminder with the appearance of a jackal that \\"...in Africa there is never any waste.\\"<br />In this first section we also begin to know and wonder about the author, a native of Britain who was transplanted to African soil at the age of 2 and raised by her father on his farm at Njoro. There her primary playmates were the children of the Nandi Murani tribe and her principle schoolroom the African landscape itself. As Markham puts it, \\"Africa was the breath and life of my childhood. It is still the host of all my darkest fears, the cradle of mysteries always intriguing, but never wholly solved. It is the remembrance of sunlight and green hills, cool water and the yellow warmth of bright mornings. It is as ruthless as any sea, more uncompromising than its own deserts. It is without temperance in its harshness or in its favors. It yields nothing, offering much to men of all races.\\"<br />It is Markham's misfortune, but also her gift, that she could never be fully assimilated by the native people and the landscape. Her father insisted on sending her to school, relatives and friends did their best to expose her to European culture, and in the end Africa itself conspired to force her out of the fold and into the larger world. The end result is a woman who walks a fine and complex line within herself between two radically different perceptions of the world.<br />Although Markham's story is remarkable based on facts alone - taking us from her childhood haunts to her historic flight across the Atlantic Ocean - it is the elegance and depth of the writing that sets this book apart. When she talks about the horses she and her father bred and raised, for example, it's as if she is stepping into the animals' skins. When she discusses her hunt for a fellow pilot, lost in the bush, it is with total absorption in the moment. This is the kind of book that can make you forget you are reading a book, drawing you into the subtleties of life as Markham knew it - engaging all the senses and ultimately your heart as well.ative people and the landscape. Her father insisted on sending her to school, relatives and friends did their best to expose her to European culture, and in the end Africa itself conspired to force her out of the fold and into the larger world. The end result is a woman who walks a fine and complex line within herself between two radically different perceptions of the world.<br />Although Markham's story is remarkable based on facts alone - taking us from her childhood haunts to her historic flight across the Atlantic Ocean - it is the elegance and depth of the writing that sets this book apart. When she talks about the horses she and her father bred and raised, for example, it's as if she is stepping into the animals' skins. When she discusses her hunt for a fellow pilot, lost in the bush, it is with total absorption in the moment. This is the kind of book that can make you forget you are reading a book, drawing you into the subtleties of life as Markham knew it - engaging all the senses and ultimately your heart as well.	2002-03-09
US	49285965	R2A7S2Z6L1RRLZ	0393309576	154388335	As We Are Now: A Novel	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Dignity Within	I have long admired May Sarton's willingness to tackle tough subjects that deal with the inner reality of her characters as they face issues or things about themselves that are not always pleasant.  One of my favorite works for example is A Reckoning, in which a woman comes to terms with her own premature dying.  Here in As We Are Now, however, Sarton pushes past even her own limits to probe an issue that festers behind the scenes of our youth-obsessed culture - the relegation of the elderly to rest homes, nursing facilities and sanitariums; any place in short where the rest of society doesn't have to see or think about them.  What makes Sarton's book such an achievement is how she is able to depict the sordidness and relentless oppression experienced by her main character Caro, while infusing her at the same time with a dignity and strength of character that transcends the worst the situation can dish out. The triumph of the novel is that in the end, we come to see Caro not as an elderly woman, but as a woman infused with a light of her own making.<br />The story begins with Caro being placed in a rest home by her older brother.  Caro has had a heart attack and can no longer live in her own home, and the older brother's younger wife can't handle having Caro live with them.  Unfortunately, or perhaps predictably, the rest home is little more than a holding tank where the residents are treated like mentally deficient children, and any attempt to buck the system results in punishment.  The most disturbing aspect of the whole thing, however, is that Caro is perceptive, bright and very much alive.  A former teacher with students who still write her, she reads and studies poetry, observes and comments astutely on her fellow residents,  and replays her favorite music in her mind to keep herself busy.  As a reader you want someone to do something, for some long lost relative to appear, a former student to offer a haven, or the visiting minister to report the abominable conditions.  Only slowly do you, like Caro, become resigned to the fact that this is what happens to the elderly in our society, and come to realize that the only escape will forged within and by herself.<br />That Sarton has managed to give her character dignity, that the novel stands as a testament to the strength and beauty of the human spirit rather than a condemnation of society, is remarkable.  This book should be read by anyone who has or will be faced with the issue of aging - in other words by everyone.ditions.  Only slowly do you, like Caro, become resigned to the fact that this is what happens to the elderly in our society, and come to realize that the only escape will forged within and by herself.<br />That Sarton has managed to give her character dignity, that the novel stands as a testament to the strength and beauty of the human spirit rather than a condemnation of society, is remarkable.  This book should be read by anyone who has or will be faced with the issue of aging - in other words by everyone.	2002-03-09
US	49285965	R2XLQMJJ3KKS04	1878736655	749412998	Juice Fasting and Detoxification: Use the Healing Power of Fresh Juice to Feel Young and Look Great	Books	5	282	288	N	Y	The Particulars of Fasting	This book is both informative, and an easy, pleasant read.  In sharp contrast to several other books I've read, Meyerowitz doesn't force feed raw food diets or fasting down your throat with threats of disease and disaster.  His approach is simple, direct and well-organized.  The book begins with a discussion of what fasting is and why it can be beneficial and continues on to descriptions of how to begin, how long to continue and how to come off a fast.  Other important sections include a systematic description of how the body detoxifies, what to expect as this occurs and what can be done to help the body during the cleansing process.  All in all I found this to be a well-balanced and informative book that I would wholeheartedly recommend to anyone who is new to the concept of water or juice fasting.	2002-03-08
US	49285965	R2KJI3BK1T5V1H	0374527008	311905626	Indivisible by Four: A String Quartet in Pursuit of Harmony	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	The Four Chambered Heart	If you are intrigued by music and how it's made, by the hearts and minds of those who have devoted their lives to making instruments sing, then this will be one of the most interesting and satisfying books you've ever read.<br />Arnold Steinhardt, the first violinist of the Guarneri String Quartet, has that rare ability to step outside his discipline and bring it alive for others. Indivisible by Four is the story not only of how the Guarneri String Quartet came to be, but of how four very different musicians have managed to forge a unique musical identity for themselves as well.<br />Here you will hear how Steinhardt and his colleagues approach a piece - about their differences and how they are resolved, the things that worked and those that didn't, the inevitable surprises and how they got through them. Best of all, from the perspective of someone who is not a professional musician, is Steinhardt's ability to bring the technical as well as the human elements alive for the reader. I came away with a good solid introduction to chamber music in general, and to the music and composers that have shaped it. Steinhardt even manages to toss in some music theory without allowing the pace to slow to a crawl.<br />An action packed thriller with plenty of twists and turns in the plot this is not. Expect instead to be treated to a very personal and intimate glimpse into the hearts of four very gifted and dedicated musicians.	2002-02-22
US	49285965	R3J0N7WHVDRE3T	0805063889	671016982	Nickel and Dimed: On (Not) Getting By in America	Books	5	4	6	N	N	What It's Really Like	I read this book with a mixture of amusement and dismay.  Amusement because I recognized so many of the situations she described - all the wacky things people do and put up with to survive - and dismay because I was reminded how depressing, degrading and exhausting it was to live on the kinds of jobs she describes.  Not only has Ehrenreich captured the essence of what it means to live on minimum wage, doing work that no one else wants, but has clearly and compassionately articulated the issue facing us as a nation as well.  America is supposed to be the land of opportunity where hard work and tenacity pays off.  Instead it has become the home of millions of hardworking poor who despite their efforts can do little more than survive.  This is not a pleasant book to read, but it's a good one.	2002-02-21
US	49285965	RLNGCC3BIL1UL	0375412530	493062492	Back When We Were Grownups	Books	2	26	31	N	N	Now What?	Given Anne Tyler's gift for exploring the inner natures of her characters, and the opening line of the novel (&quot;Once upon a time, there was a woman who discovered that she had turned into the wrong person.&quot;) you naturally expect this novel to shine with insight and catharsis.  All sorts of intriguing questions come to mind.  If she is the wrong person, who should she be?  What is wrong with the person she is?  What happened?  And of course, what will she do about it?  Unfortunately, most of these questions never really get answered.  The main character that has had this major insight (53-year old Rebecca Davitch) never gets beyond the vague realization that her decision to marry Joe Davitch rather than her childhood sweetheart Will Allenby changed the way her life unfolded.  No big revelation there.  Most readers will have figured this out for themselves long ago.  What the book promises, and doesn't deliver, is a paring away of the years of role playing, the sharpening of focus that comes when someone finally chooses him or herself over the needs and expectations of others.<br />Tyler spends hundreds of pages wandering through Rebecca's past, without any real revelations surfacing.  In addition, Rebecca is suddenly seized with the desire to find and re-establish a relationship with the childhood sweetheart she dumped.  Things become even more muddled when she suddenly decides that the childhood sweetheart, whom she seems to have fallen in love with again and who has graciously forgiven her, really isn't the man for her after all.  In a sudden reversal of feeling (in one paragraph she is floating happily about the house and introducing him to her family, and the next can't stand the guy) she announces to him that this relationship really won't work. The poor guy, who has just spent hours at a family dinner, meekly walks away saying, \\"Oh, okay I guess.\\"  There is no mention made or thought given to how this second rejection must have affected the man.  He simply walks out of the story and is never heard from again.  In a final, puzzling reversal, Rebecca begins to think that marrying her husband had been a smart move after all.  What is Tyler saying here?  Has Rebecca discovered that she turned into the right person after all?  The book closes without any real resolution or change, leaving the reader dissatisfied and annoyed with Rebecca for being vague and indecisive.<br />Several people have defended the book, saying that Rebecca is a \\"real\\" character.  There are thousands of women struggling to find themselves once their partners pass away and major family obligations subside.  I have no doubt that this is true, but we don't read books simply to see our lives reflected in print.  We read them to gain understanding and insight, and in the past Tyler could be counted on to deliver both.  Things happen physically and psychologically in most Tyler books (though they don't always resolve), but this novel fails to deliver.  In fact, I would say it falls flat.  All I could think when I reached the last page was, \\"is that it?!  Now what?\\"simply walks out of the story and is never heard from again.  In a final, puzzling reversal, Rebecca begins to think that marrying her husband had been a smart move after all.  What is Tyler saying here?  Has Rebecca discovered that she turned into the right person after all?  The book closes without any real resolution or change, leaving the reader dissatisfied and annoyed with Rebecca for being vague and indecisive.<br />Several people have defended the book, saying that Rebecca is a \\"real\\" character.  There are thousands of women struggling to find themselves once their partners pass away and major family obligations subside.  I have no doubt that this is true, but we don't read books simply to see our lives reflected in print.  We read them to gain understanding and insight, and in the past Tyler could be counted on to deliver both.  Things happen physically and psychologically in most Tyler books (though they don't always resolve), but this novel fails to deliver.  In fact, I would say it falls flat.  All I could think when I reached the last page was, \\"is that it?!  Now what?\\"	2002-02-21
US	49285965	R2LHR1U2E861D5	0060932236	326895825	Essays of E. B. White (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	102	106	N	Y	The Art of the Essay	Most folks will know E.B. White as the author of Charlotte's Web and Stuart Little, or as the eminently practical voice of reason in The Elements of Style.  However, White was also an accomplished essayist, turning out pieces for The New Yorker and Harpers on a regular basis for many years.<br />What I like about White's essays is that they can be counted on to be insightful, amusing and well-written.  White approaches an essay like a pleasant conversation.  He's been thinking about New York and its inhabitants, he will tell you, and this what he's come up with.  On another occasion it may be the personality quirks of his old dachshund Fred, or the controversy over white versus brown eggs.  Anything and everything is food for thought, although you can be sure that White will broaden the scope of his topics to include the world at large.  New York, he concludes, is a concentrated version of many worlds, \\"...bringing to a single arena the gladiator, the evangelist, the promoter, the actor, the trader, and the merchant.\\"  Fred, the dachshund, was \\"...the Cecil B. deMille of dogs. He was a zealot, and I have just been reminded of him by a quote from one of the Democrats...\\"  And the white versus brown egg debate, White concludes, is simply a matter of what you're used to.  Personally he prefers brown, and can recommend the egg of the Silver Cross, whose egg is \\"...so richly brown, so wondrously beautiful as to defy description.\\"<br />Best of all, White's insightful commentary does not require intense concentration or endless analysis to get the gist of what he is trying to say.  You can sit back and relax when you pick up a book of his essays, knowing you won't have to grapple with unfamiliar or awkward language.  This is not to imply that you won't find yourself thinking about what he has to say.  It's just that his approach is so matter-of- fact, easy going and accessible that you feel you've been invited to tea or are taking a leisurely stroll as the essay unfolds.  I read White's essays the way some people read mysteries or romance novels.  They are entertaining without being too demanding, and are a great way to set day-to-day concerns aside.  Treat yourself to a good read.I read White's essays the way some people read mysteries or romance novels.  They are entertaining without being too demanding, and are a great way to set day-to-day concerns aside.  Treat yourself to a good read.	2002-02-14
US	49285965	RFZTR901N8G7Z	1585742376	980791728	The Greatest Horse Stories Ever Told: Thirty Unforgettable Horse Tales	Books	4	36	37	N	N	Some of the Greatest	The GREATEST horse stories EVER told?  Well...let's put it this way.  These are definitely some of the better stories, and certainly the book as a whole offers an eclectic and therefore engrossing range of stories.  But don't hold the book's title against it.  It really is a nice mix that ranges from the first-person accounts by Jane Smiley of her dear old friend Mr. T. and Colonel Alois Podhaksky's description of his time spent as the Director of the Vienna Spanish Riding School (home of the Lipizzaner stallions) to a story of a real life horse whisperer and Maxine's Kumin's thoughtful answer to the question, \\"Why is it that girls love horses?\\"  Here too you will find racehorses, cow ponies, hunters and the people who know and care for them.  This book is a sure beat for  anyone who loves horses, or is interested in what makes those who love them tick.	2002-02-10
US	49285965	ROZXDHUY0HSR8	0345360176	369762528	Ruffian: Burning From The Start	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	In the Presence of a Champion	Rarely does an author manage to capture and define the rich and varied mix of people and circumstances that go into making a championship racehorse.  And for good reason.  It is a bit like cooking up a stew that has all sorts of spices thrown in.  There are certain things you can control - the amount of detail to include, the descriptions of the people and races, the pace of the story - but in the end you're never quite sure what you'll have until you finish.  On a larger scale, that is what happens in the breeding and racing of thoroughbreds, and lovers of the sport will be first to admit it.  That is why Ruffian was such a breath taking surprise in her 10 unbeaten starts, and such a heart wrenching loss in her final defeat.  It is also what makes Schwartz's account so moving.<br />Schwartz has managed to tell Ruffian's story with wit and wisdom through the lives of the people who shepherded her through her career.  Gradually, through their eyes you come to know a young horse that was both unusually poised and hauntingly determined.  Every jockey who ever rode her was struck by the length of her stride, the ease of her acceleration and the futility of trying to hold her back.  Ruffian left little doubt in anyone's mind that she loved to run and had the raw physical strength and coordination to win.  It was this combination that made her the darling of the horseracing world for one brief season and proved to be her undoing the next.<br />For anyone who loves to watch thoroughbreds run, who is captivated by their beauty and spirit, this book is a must.  Schwartz got the recipe right, and you will feel that you have been in the presence of a champion by the time you have finished.	2002-02-10
US	49285965	R38GLS8XJI4AZL	0805059504	802799374	Yukon Alone: The World's Toughest Adventure Race	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Real Scoop on the Worlds Most Challenging Dogsled Race	John Balzar is first and foremost a reporter, with a reporter's unerring nose for news.  So it should come as no surprise that word of the Yukon Quest, a 1,023-mile dog sled race through some of the coldest and most challenging terrain in the world, would capture his attention and get him started on the trail of a good story.  What was a surprise, as much to Balzar as to his readers I suspect, was the degree to which the race and its participants came to matter.  Quirky, devoted to a sport that doesn't translate well to television, and immersed in a way of life that 90% of the population can't begin to fathom, the people Balzar meets when he first heads north have \\"the power to fascinate.\\"<br />Following the advice of George \\"Skip\\" Brink, a construction worker who volunteers at the race, Balzar stops taking notes, sets aside his writing tools, and asks what he can do to help out with the race.  Thus begins his stint as a pooper-scooper and veterinary assistant at the race, in which he slowly comes to realize that he is there to learn as much about himself as about the race.<br />Yukon Alone is full of Balzar's characteristically insightful and amusing observations on life as he sees it, but it is not as polished or self-assured as some of his other work.  In fact, the reader gets the distinct impression that Balzar is flying by the seat of his pants, figuring things out as the story progresses, which lends an immediacy and intensity to the writing.  We are there, for instance, when he loses control of his dogsled team and ends up in a heap on the side of a trail with a nasty gash in his head.  We stand by and watch with embarrassment as he asks a friend to fly him to see a woman friend, even though he knows he is risking both their lives.  Here is a story that has much to say about what motivates and sustains us, and the importance of meaningful relationships with other creatures and the land.  No doubt you will be amused and disgusted, shocked and dismayed, thrilled and touched by this book.  The one thing you will not be is bored, which is one of the highest compliments I can pay Balzar.ed and touched by this book.  The one thing you will not be is bored, which is one of the highest compliments I can pay Balzar.	2002-02-09
US	49285965	R34UBTO7VB2ITG	0375503250	296298524	Buffalo for the Broken Heart: Restoring Life to a Black Hills Ranch	Books	5	22	23	N	Y	The &quot;Noble Life&quot;  O'Brien-Style	O'Brien's quest for meaning in life, as defined by his relationship with the land and the animals that call it home, continues here.  In his previous novel, Equinox, he explored the dichotomy in his life between the pull of the wild, and the demands of a stable relationship that required more than he was able to give.  In Buffalo for the Broken Heart, we find him feeling lost and ruddlerless, both in his personal and financial life, as he struggles to get past a failed marriage and looming financial disaster.<br />As O'Brien gradually comes to the conclusion that buffalo are the logical answer to his dilemma, it becomes clear that they are stand for a balance and wholeness he has been trying to restore to his land and his inner landscape as well.  The story, as it unfolds, is full of the personal details of Great Plains life, and the honest self-exploration that make O'Brien's books a pleasure to read.  As so often happens, his inner doubts and fears are reflected in the events and lives around him.  The weather is unpredictable, farm costs rise, friends go bankrupt, he is beset by worries over the buffalos he has purchased, the list goes on and on until by the end of the novel, O'Brien comes to tenuous terms with his land and his new means of making a living.  The buffalo are not the final answer, but it is clear that they have helped him find another piece of the puzzle he is working so hard to solve.	2002-02-08
US	49285965	RPRPKZI8V7JQN	0060953748	154462447	River Town: Two Years on the Yangtze	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Rare Perspective	This is not an easy  book to discuss because it does so many things so well.  On the surface, it is the story of a young Peace Corps volunteer, named Peter Hessler, who goes to China to teach English literature to college students.  The town where the college is located is known as Fuling.  It is in the remote province of Sichuan along the Yangtze River.  Hessler and his partner, Admam Meier, are the first foreigners to be seen in the town in 50 years.  This alone would make Hessler's situation a little unusual, but the fact that both he and Meier immediately begin to question and indirectly challenge the roles they have been assigned, means that Hessler's experiences develop into real adventures.<br />Hessler's first year in Fuling is characterized by culture shock, disillusionment and a stubborn refusal to give up on his goal of learning to read and speak Chinese.  He is shocked by the brainwashing of his students, by their intelligence and insightfulness when they are dealing with subjects that they don't have preprogrammed responses to.  He struggles with the isolation imposed on him by the rest of the faculty, and begins to make forays into the hills just to get away from the regemented college routine, pollution and crowding.<br />In his second year, his Chinese improves and he begins to make friends in Fuling.  He is still frustrated by attempts to control what he teaches, still struggles to understand his students' behavior, but he has begun to find his way in this strange new land.  He makes friends with two of the professors, is befriended by a family in town and by a few of the people who have stopped to talk with him.  On his breaks he travels to other parts of China.  He hikes back into the hills for a second year and talks to the farmers.<br />But for all his understanding and insight, Hessler is never really happy in Fuling.  His health is poor, he is disturbed by events at the school, by the fact that all his mail is opened before he receives it, by the political climate of the town and most especially by an alarming encounter with a group of angry townspeople.  This last incident seems to crystallize many things for him, and he is ready to leave as the last few weeks of his term come to an end.<br />What makes this book special is Hessler's ability to capture the essence of Fuling - its sights, smells, people and overall character- and his willingness to share his inner process. We are there with him during drinking matches sponsored by the head of the English Department, and are introduced to each of his students.  We watch as he struggles to understand their responses, and feel his frustation as he struggles with Chinese. Likewise we can see and smell the food at his favorite noodles shop, applaude his victory in a local cross country race and know his feelngs of anger and helplessness when he learns that one of his students has died.<br />If you have ever wondered what is is like to live in a foreign country, to try to cope with a culture that is radically different from your own; if you have wondered about China and its people, then this is a wonderful place to start your exploration.  When you put down River Town you will feel that you have been there too.the political climate of the town and most especially by an alarming encounter with a group of angry townspeople.  This last incident seems to crystallize many things for him, and he is ready to leave as the last few weeks of his term come to an end.<br />What makes this book special is Hessler's ability to capture the essence of Fuling - its sights, smells, people and overall character- and his willingness to share his inner process. We are there with him during drinking matches sponsored by the head of the English Department, and are introduced to each of his students.  We watch as he struggles to understand their responses, and feel his frustation as he struggles with Chinese. Likewise we can see and smell the food at his favorite noodles shop, applaude his victory in a local cross country race and know his feelngs of anger and helplessness when he learns that one of his students has died.<br />If you have ever wondered what is is like to live in a foreign country, to try to cope with a culture that is radically different from your own; if you have wondered about China and its people, then this is a wonderful place to start your exploration.  When you put down River Town you will feel that you have been there too.	2002-02-06
US	49285965	R12QUIHL1H4V5L	0393314529	833339247	In the Shadow of a Rainbow: The True Story of a Friendship Between Man and Wolf	Books	5	47	47	N	N	Connections	What a lovely book.  Leslie has captured the remarkable story of a young Indian man, who is befriended by a wolf, in living color.  Greg (the Indian) and Nahani (the white wolf) meet when Nahani brings her pack into the area where Greg is prospecting for gold .  Thanks to Greg's willingness to watch and learn from the wolves,  along with his inherent respect for their boundaries and ways of doing things, the leader of the pack (Nahani)gradually comes to trust him.  Eventually she sits by his fire, allows him to scratch her back, and pull ticks from her skin.  This mutually satisfying relationship ends when the first snows of winter arrive and Greg must return to town.<br />Back in civilization, Greg discovers that Nahani has earned a reputation as a killer.  There is a large reward being offered to anyone who can kill her and bring in the skin.  Greg is naturally upset by this, and tries to convince people that the wolf is not a threat.  He is opposed by a trapper named Dan who does all he can to stop Greg from helping the wolf. Concerned for Nahani's safety, Greg embarks on a 3-year quest to locate the wolf and save her if he can.<br />The story of how Greg manages to locate and track Nahani through one of the remotest and most inaccessible regions of the country is as inspiring as it is fascinating.  Better still is the story of what happens when Greg eventually locates the wolves.<br />This story, which ends on a very positive note, is said to be true. It was told to the author (Robert Franklin Leslie) by Greg himself.  Aside from the few places where human motivations and emotions are attributed to the wolf, the story rings true. It is a real treat for anyone who believes in the interconnectedness of all living things.	2002-02-04
US	49285965	R212EJN6ZEV9BJ	0375703136	103297193	The Best of Outside: The First 20 Years	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Out and About	Thanks to Outside magazine, which has been systematically cultivating a stable of fine writers for years now, we have a collection of what I'll call the &quot;nouveau adventure&quot; genre.  Yes, there are traditional, edge-of-your-seat adventure stories by familiar names like Jon Krakauer, Sebastian Junger and Dave Roberts, but to me the real pleasure of reading this book is derived from pieces like Ian Frazier's &quot;Keeping America's Trees Safe from Small-Curd Bubble Wrap,&quot; and Randy Wayne White's &quot;Why Do We Fish?&quot;  Their topics are just a bit off the wall, poke gentle fun at the human condition, and still manage to offer some real insight into subjects that most of us would never have thought of.<br />I have also savored the several pieces in the anthology that touch a deeper chord.  &quot;The High Cost of Being David Bower,&quot; a sensitive portrait of a man literally driven by the urgency of his dream, and &quot;The Blackfoot Years,&quot; dealing with the importance of a river to the lives of a family that has had to cope with tragedy, are two favorites.<br />Here you will find adventure of all kinds, insightful social commentary, high risk moments, and just enough oddball humor to keep you entertained for hours.  Like other readers, I find myself returning to this collection just for the fun and pleasure of rereading my favorites.  Many thanks to Outside for having the vision and sense to give these authors a home in print.	2002-02-03
US	49285965	R32IE2SW4ZPQS9	1555910548	512475901	Nature Fakers: Wildlife, Science, and Sentiment	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Faking or Exaggeration?	Ostensibly this book is about the controversy that erupted over the work of Ernest Thompson Seton and William J. Long, both well-respected and popular naturalists in their time (start of the 20th century), and both very successful writers.  The general public, which had caught \\"nature fever,\\" was entranced by their stories of wolves that fed their offspring poison so they wouldn't have to endure captivity, foxes that rode on the backs of sheep to escape hunters, porcupines that curled into balls and rolled down hills, and birds that tied knots in order make nests.<br />Enter the grand old man of nature writing, John Burroughs and the President of the United States, Theodore Roosevelt, both of whom had a hard time swallowing the tales of Seton and Long. In exasperation at what he saw as blatant untruths, Burroughs wrote a letter debunking many of the claims Seton and Long made. It was published in the Atlantic and immediately created a stir.  Although Seton refused to react, and indeed went out of his way to discuss the matter with Burroughs, Long responded with outrage and accusations of his own. What resulted was an ongoing debate between the two camps, which has been well-documented and expertly told here by Lutts.  The bigger picture has to do with the changing perception of wilderness (including animals) and its role in the lives of Americans at the start of the twentieth century.<br />Lutts does a beautiful job of developng not only the nature faker debate, but explaining how the changing consciousness of the nation shaped and fueld it as well.  Thus The Nature Fakers is about much more than the actual debates between Seton, Long, Burroughs and Roosevelt.<br />My one problem was the length of the book.  After 100 pages Lutts has made the issues clear, and it seems time to let us know what happened and sum things up with some concluding remarks. Instead, the arguments and debates go on, via excerpts from the actual texts of the times.  Although the quotes are well chosen and helpful at the start, since they allow the reader to get a feel for the writers, they got to be a bit tiresome towards the end.<br />The slow pace of the second half of the book aside, The Nature Fakers is a fascinating tale involving some of America's most colorful and historic personalities.  It also raises concerns that are still very much with us today.  You are left wondering what you really think about the role of nature in our lives. Should animals and natural resources be treated as commodities to be consumed, regarded as equals and protected, seen as fearsome and unapproachable, or merely the objects of biological study?  Your answers may surprise you. Definitely recommended.e well chosen and helpful at the start, since they allow the reader to get a feel for the writers, they got to be a bit tiresome towards the end. <br />The slow pace of the second half of the book aside, The Nature Fakers is a fascinating tale involving some of America's most colorful and historic personalities.  It also raises concerns that are still very much with us today.  You are left wondering what you really think about the role of nature in our lives. Should animals and natural resources be treated as commodities to be consumed, regarded as equals and protected, seen as fearsome and unapproachable, or merely the objects of biological study?   Your answers may surprise you. Definitely recommended.	2002-02-03
US	49285965	R3ILPQSJ80U7T9	0399526315	379569463	Travels with Our Fellow Creatures	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Classic Animal Stories	If you're looking for a good book of animal stories to curl up with by the fire this would be a good choice.  The authors are all old favorites and include Cleveland Amory, Jack London, May Sarton, Farley Mowat, John Steinbeck, Dian Fossey and Ernest Hemingway.  In that respect, the book is a little too predictable for anyone who has done much reading in the genre.  Like me, you will undoubtedly recognize Sarton's \\"Fur Person,\\" Kipling's \\"Garm-A Hostage,\\" Amory's \\"The Cat Who Came to Christmas,\\" and London's \\"White Fang.\\"  However, there were some pleasant surprises, such as the poetry by Walt Whitman, Floyd Skloot and Robert Graves, and the fact that I had read about Mowat's adventures with his wolves didn't make me enjoy them any less.<br />Expect no great surprises or revelations, with the possible exception of Diane Ackerman's close encounter with a right whale.  Even the excerpt from Barry Lopez's ordinarily luminous prose is merely a short, ho hum essay on land ownership. This is bascially a feel good book (best to keep kleenex at your side), and if you take it as such, you won't be disappointed.	2002-02-02
US	49285965	R2QTL5EUJZUZZU	1558215379	992336407	Ring of Ice: True Tales of Adventure, Exploration, and Arctic Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Meaning of Ice	If you are intrigued by the allure that the Arctic has for some people, or are yourself unable to resist subzero weather at the top of the world, then Ring of Ice is a must. Stark has collected a truly diverse range of stories beginning with the comedy of errors endured by Georg Wilhelm Stellar, the German-born scientist aboard Vitus Bering's 1741 Russian expedition to the North American coast, and ending with the luminous prose of modern Artic explorers such as Barry Lopez.<br />Stark's informative introductions to each essay are both helpful and amusing. He has also sought to balance the primarily European writers and their points of view with those of the native Inuit people by preceding each essay with an Inuit poem. \\"The poems emphasize the Inuit ethic of sharing, egalitarianism, and incessant hunting, as well as the simple joys and fears of life.\\" They are, of course, in sharp contrast to the accounts of the European explorers, who sought to conquer rather than work with nature, and usually perished as a result.<br />The book is divided into 4 sections (called books), but the progression of pieces is linear. The 1998 piece entitled \\"Tale of a Hunter's Daughter,\\" is so pignantly written and captures the feeling of both the land and the woman struggling to make her way in it, that it is worth the price of the whole book. Of course there are other stand-outs, including \\"How Dr.Hayes Learned to Love Seal Blubber,\\" \\"Nansen Strolls Farthest North,\\" and \\"Cold Oceans: By Sea Kayak to Greenland.\\"<br />Oddly enough, the poetry, which I thought was an excellent idea, is made inaccessible and difficult to read by the fact that it has been set in a script font that is too small to read comfortably. As a result, your eyes naturally gravitate towards the correctly sized, regular fonts used in the essays. This is really strange, given the time and effort that obviously went into the rest of the book, and I hope that Stark has made a very loud stink. It's hard to make yourself work at reading the poetry, which by its nature takes a little bit of work to appreciate. Otherwise a fine collection.work at reading the poetry, which by its nature takes a little bit of work to appreciate. Otherwise a fine collection.	2002-02-02
US	49285965	R3ICVWVZZCFKO	0452265177	982411270	The New Natural Cat: A Complete Guide for Finicky Owners (Plume)	Books	5	32	32	N	N	The Real Definition of a Cat Lover	Now this is a woman who truly knows and loves cats.  Frazier's interest in their care and handling began when she was working for a vet who sent her out to homes to groom cats.  While grooming, she was confronted with a wide assortment of perplexing issues from dull coats and eating disorders to allergies and communication problems.  By working with the vet, paying attention to the cats, and enlisting the help of the owners, she gradually found solutions to most of the problems and accumulated a gold mine of information.<br />Frazier's approach to writing is direct, simple and concise.  Her suggestions are always presented with compassion, and keep the larger, holistic view in mind. I have found the sections on diet and nutrition particularly helpful, but Frazier waxes eloquent on a wide assortment of physical ailments, grooming, training, spiritual health and behavioral issues as well.  If you're a cat owner don't miss this chance to get to know your furry friend in a whole new way.  This book is both an invaluable resource and a wonderful contribution to interspecies communication. Five stars!	2002-02-01
US	49285965	R1YAC39DBJ3XSP	0679776230	502694157	The Rarest of the Rare: Vanishing Animals, Timeless Worlds	Books	5	17	18	N	N	What We Stand to Lose	Ackerman's gift is her ability to capture and convey her wonder, delight and fascination with the creatures that inhabit the Earth.  She is equally at home with whales and crocodiles, finds cuddling baby penguins as entertaining as discussing bombardier beetles and thinks nothing of tackling stormy seas and the vertical slopes of volcanic islands to catch a glimpse of a rare sea bird.<br />In this, her latest attempt to help humans see and understand the \\"interlocking business of species,\\" Ackerman introduces us to some of the world's most beleagured inhabitants. Meet the Hawaiian monk seal with its \\"bulbous head covered in silky fur, with black-buttonhook-shaped eyes, a snout on which springy nostrils open full like quotation marks, tiny tab shaped ears, a spray of cat's whiskers, and many doughy chins;\\"  the golden tamarind monkey, with its \\"sunset-and-corn-silk coloring;\\" and the magical monarch butterfly, \\"gliding, flapping and hitching rides on thermals like any hawk or eagle.\\"<br />Then there are the creatures of the Amazon river - armoured catfish, cashew piranhas, striated herons, sphinx moths, yellow-footed tortoises and bewhiskered dolphins.  On the volcanic Japanese island of Torishima, we are introduced to the last of the short-tailed albatrosses and the young Japanese orinthologist who is trying to save them.<br />Whether she is bushwacking through rainforests, fighting seasickness or summoning the nerve to touch a shiny beetle, Ackerman is always fully and actively present for her reader.  Reading one of her books is the next best thing to being in the field with her, and certainly a lot less strenuous. This book is a treat that shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-30
US	49285965	R2XRNVKPZ0Z6OG	0395717590	810027955	The Lost Grizzlies: A Search for Survivors in the Colorado Wilderness	Books	4	5	6	N	N	I Believe It Was a Grizzly	This book is a unique combination of comedy, real-life adventure and a luminous testimony to one of America's most endangered and mythical beasts. Bass is at his best here, capturing the hearts of his readers through an alternately hilarious and spine tingling account of his journey into the Colorado mountains in search of grizzly bears.<br />The problem facing Bass and his two friends is that the grizzly bear is believed to be extinct in Colorado.  However, several undocumented sightings and signs have convinced them that the bears exist in the remotest regions of the mountain range.  Thus they are out to do all they can to locate bears and document their findings.<br />In the resulting adventures we find the three companions trapsing through woods, sliding down canyon walls, confronting bureaucrats and tracking down bear sign. Things are complicated, and given a distinctly uneasy quality, by the behavior of Doug Peacock. Peacock, himself a well-known author and champion of the grizzly bear, is plagued by frequent and dramatic mood swings.  His alarmingly volatile temper, moments of intense introspection and frequent outbursts of graphic profanity have the reader feeling like he/she is walking on eggshells.  Because Bass has done such a good job of describing his friend, and how he came to be the way he is, it's easy to forgive  Peacock his peculiar behavior. However, it is not easy or pleasant to read.<br />As the story unfolds, and the three men get closer to their goal, the tension becomes almost unbearable. When Bass finally sees a bear, after months of exhausting effort and disappointment, the scene unfolds in classic Bass technicolor with heart racing clarity and insight. \\"When I am ten yards from that fallen tree - which I am all but ignoring, focusing on the deer - a creature leaps up from behind it, seemingly right in my face, a brown creature with great hunched shoulders. It's a bear with a big head, and for the smallest fraction of time our eyes meet. The bear's round brown eyes are wild in alarm, and mine the same or larger, I'm sure. The bear's rich chocolate color, like a moose and nearly as big, an animal of such immense size that indeed my first thought, the one right before fear, is: That bear's as big as a moose!\\"<br />I won't ruin the suspense by telling you what happens next. It should be enough to know that Bass neither disappoints nor fails to find deeper currents of truth running beneath his experience. This is another book that shouldn't be missed. Just don't expect it to reveal its gifts easily.The bear's round brown eyes are wild in alarm, and mine the same or larger, I'm sure. The bear's rich chocolate color, like a moose and nearly as big, an animal of such immense size that indeed my first thought, the one right before fear, is: That bear's as big as a moose!\\"<br />I won't ruin the suspense by telling you what happens next. It should be enough to know that Bass neither disappoints nor fails to find deeper currents of truth running beneath his experience. This is another book that shouldn't be missed. Just don't expect it to reveal its gifts easily.	2002-01-20
US	49285965	RRB9QRGRHTP75	0395926181	464026386	Colter: The True Story of the Best Dog I Ever Had	Books	5	1	2	N	N	More Than Just a Dog	We all know how close a man and dog can be.  Literature is full of moving tales of the bond forged between canine and human, but the story of Colter goes one step further.<br />In Colter, Bass has discovered a part of himself.  The dog is the living, breathing incarnation of his own expansive spirit that lives to follow the scents of life, to fling itself into the field day after day, pitting itself against the limits of physical strength and desire.  In Colter, Bass has found his touchstone, a being so full of raw physical exuberance that he recalls Bass to his roots and reminds him of his own passion.<br />For Colter, Bass will do almost anything. Recognizing the dog's extraordinary talent, he sends him off to be trained by the best trainer he can find. Enthralled by the dog's all consuming desire to hunt, he drives hundreds of miles to find prime hunting sites, follows him into fields in all kinds of weather and enrolls in shooting school so as not to disappoint his dog by missing birds.  Quite simply, when Bass is out hunting with his Colter, he is more fully and intensely alive than at any other time.  Is it any wonder then that when Colter disappears Bass feels that a part of himself has been lost?  Is it any wonder that he mourns his death with a fierceness that surpasses even Bass's remarkable ability to articulate?<br />This is a powerful, touching and ultimately incomplete book.  It is clear that while Colter is no longer in form, he still is very much alive in Bass, and that Bass has yet to come to terms with his loss.  Where and how, you are left wondering, will Bass find another being who can match him stride for stride?	2002-01-19
US	49285965	R2CI4H076CXNUH	1885211414	827064723	The Gift of Birds: True Encounters with Avian Spirits (Travelers' Tales Guides)	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Beyond Birds	I confess to being a bit ignorant when it comes to birds. It's not that I don't like them, you understand. It's just that I have never felt compelled to follow them into marshes, rainfrests or tidal plains, record their songs, carry bincoulars, notebooks and field guides to identify them or attend the meetings of our local birdwatchers' club.  On the other hand, I am great friends with the cardinal couple that visits the tree outside my window each morning and the java sparrows that nest in the eaves of the house next door. I have also made the acquaintance of several parrots in the neighborhood, and we get along just fine. So when I was  given this collection of true stories to read, I thought, what the heck. Why not?<br />Not only was I pleasantly surprised by the depth and range of the writing contained in this book, but I was touched by the effect birds have had on people's lives.  The book is divided into 5 sections, each with its own unique set of stories. Some of my favorites include the following:<br />In Part I - Vivid Encounters, Diane Ackerman tells of how she broke her ribs climbing down vertical volcanic cliffs on a Japanese island to see the last of the short-tailed Albatrosses.<br /><br />In Part II - Kindred Spirits,  David Duncan confesses to having robbed a great horned owl's nest as a child.<br />In Part III - Odd Ducks, Marie Winn tells of a magical day spent gettting lost and discovering birds in Central Park.<br />In Part IV - Brushes with Divinity can be found the offerings of authors such as Peter Matthiessen's compelling description of his visit to the breeding grounds of the great cranes in Siberia.<br />Part V - Ascending Song consists of a single offering by Kenn Kauffman (author of Kingbird Highway) who tells of finding and listening to the song of a skylark out in the San Juan Islands.<br />There are many more of course, from writers as diverse as Alice Walker, Louise Erdrich and Bernd Heinrich. All in all this is a wonderful read that shouldn't be missed.shouldn't be missed.	2002-01-19
US	49285965	R2OB0D48XQW5SI	0891908587	504266980	We Took to the Woods	Books	5	116	117	N	N	Wild Woman in the Woods	Louise Rich is not what you might expect a person who has given up the &quot;essentials&quot; of life to be.  She is not trying to escape, not trying to save the wilderness, prove a point or return to her roots.  Her motivation, quite simply, is that she likes where she lives and is willing to put up with a fair amount of discomfort to stay there. Moreover, she is mightily amused by the questions she is frequently asked  by friends and acquaintances, the most common being:<br />&quot;How do you make a living?&quot;<br />&quot;But, you don't live here all the year round?&quot;<br />&quot;Isn't housekeeping difficult?&quot;<br />&quot;What do you do with all your spare time?&quot;<br />&quot;Don't you ever get bored?&quot;<br />&quot;Aren't you ever frightened?&quot;<br />&quot;Don't you get awfully out of touch?&quot;<br />&quot;Do you get out very often?&quot;<br />and<br />&quot;Is it worth-while?&quot;<br />Rich's eminently practical, and amusing answers to these questions form the basis of this book and will keep you grinning from ear to ear for hours.<br />It is clear from the start that Louise and her husband Ralph are more than capable of taking care of and amusing one another, and things only get better with the addition of various family members.  These include Gerrish, their friend and handyman, son Rufus, daughter Sally, postman Larry, a skunk, five huskies, a marten and an ongoing parade of visitors, neighbors and &quot;sports&quot; (that's backwoods for tourists).<br />You will be treated to Rich's opinions on a wide variety of subjects, including women's fashions (and why she couldn't care less what she wears in the woods), the futility of trying to do housework when you're married to a man who loves motors, how to plan meals that take the weather's idiosyncrasies into account, the best way avoid getting lost, cut with an axe or burned by a stove. Even better, you will be taken along on a whole series of hilarious escapades as Rich learns how to cope with life in the woods.<br />With wry amusement she tells of the day she and her husband delivered their son on their own, her trip to the &quot;Outside&quot; after not having left the woods for 4 years, and the afternoon she spent cooking dinner for a bunch of lumberjacks.  Here too are entertaining stories of playing tag with a family of foxes, going berry picking, pulling porcupine quills out of dogs, learning to tie fishing flies and locating hunters who get lost.<br />The real gift of this book however, is the chance to spend time with Rich herself.  Here is someone it would be worth a long hike through snowy woods to visit. You'll feel like you've made a friend by the time the book is finished..<br />With wry amusement she tells of the day she and her husband delivered their son on their own, her trip to the &quot;Outside&quot; after not having left the woods for 4 years, and the afternoon she spent cooking dinner for a bunch of lumberjacks.  Here too are entertaining stories of playing tag with a family of foxes, going berry picking, pulling porcupine quills out of dogs, learning to tie fishing flies and locating hunters who get lost.<br />The real gift of this book however, is the chance to spend time with Rich herself.  Here is someone it would be worth a long hike through snowy woods to visit. You'll feel like you've made a friend by the time the book is finished.	2002-01-19
US	49285965	R23XJT6BGNR5E2	0295969741	701369624	The Last Best Place: A Montana Anthology	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	A Rare Gift	The Last Best Place is an anthology with incredible breadth and scope.  It was put together over a three year period by a group of dedicated editors and researchers headed up by Annick Smith and William Kittredge.  The goal was to identify and preserve Montanna's rich literary heritage ranging from the earliest Native American inhabitants and explorers to contemporary authors such as Rick Newby and Bill Hoagland.<br />The size of the anthology is proof that it was a daunting if rewarding task.  Over 1,000 pages long, it cannot be considered &quot;light&quot; reading, and yet the writing shines.  There are sections from Lewis and Clark, Osborne Russell and James Audubon, (all early visitors to Montana), side by side with Native American stories and myths by the like of Jerome Fourstar, James White Calf and Pete Beaverhead( don't miss &quot;Chickadees&quot; as told to Frank Linderman by Pretty-shield, Medicine Woman).  Here too you will find cowboys, settlers and wild west characters such as Mary MacLane who declared from a very early age, &quot;I want Fame...Let me but make a beginning, let me but strike the world in a vulnerable spot, and I can take it by storm.&quot;  There are essays, legends, journals, tall tales and poetry; tales of stunning beauty, adventure, disaster, brutality and vision. This is a book that belongs on the shelf of anyone who understands the importance of place and is fascinated by the literature that has evolved out of it.	2002-01-19
US	49285965	R3KZZLL5O77DCO	0618062351	735494393	Kingbird Highway: The Story of a Natural Obsession That Got a Little Out of Hand	Books	4	8	10	N	N	In Search of Birds	Some decisions just can't be justified by logic or reason. They come from a place inside us that won't be denied - that has an agenda all its own.<br />And so it was for Kenn Kaufman, a bright young high school student who quit the academic life (bored stiff) to explore the one thing that had grabbed and held his attention from an early age - BIRDS.<br />Kauffman's approach to birding is simple. Work just enough to accumulate funds for travel, then hit the road with your thumb extended and a backpack full of field guides, the cheapest food you can find, and the rudiments of self-hygiene. When I tell you that Kauffman once ate dry cat food to save money, you will understand why the subtitle of this book is \\"a natural obsession that got a little out of hand.\\" Kauffman is definitely eccentric, though delightfully so, and it quickly becomes apparent that he is in search of more than birds on his journey.<br />Kauffman's travels take him back and forth across the North American continent, up to Alaska, down into Mexico and occasionally out to sea, where in addition to finding birds he connects and makes friends with a large network of equally obsessed birders. Meet Ted Parker, the wonder kid of the birding world described as a \\"super being.\\" Then there are Peli and Rose Ann who give him the nickname Kingbird, and the Tuscon Five, Kauffman's band of birding buddies who are willing to drop their college studies at a moment's notice to follow him into the field. Other memorable characters include a falconer turned conservationist, Diana who drives Kauffman to the local dump in search of Mexican crows, and Charlie who \\"...had not held a regular job in 30 years.\\"<br />In addition to unusual characters, you will be introduced to the world of \\"Lists,\\" \\"Big Days,\\" \\"Christmas Bird Counts,\\" and \\"Big Years.\\" Kauffman's own Big Year (a year in which a birder tries to identify as many bird species as possible) is the premise for most of this book, and provides him with the impetus he needs to sort out his dreams, priorities and ambitions.<br />Finally, you will hear of the inevitable unplanned adventures that occurred as Kauffman hitched his way across the states. Highlights include weathering a rare snowstorm in the Carolinas with his buddy Scott, being stranded on Fort Jefferson island, and a Christmas Bird Count that almost gets him drowned.<br />My one difficulty with the book, given that I am not a birder, was Kauffman's tendency to rattle off the names of the birds he tracked down. Lacking the knowledge to really understand what he was seeing and getting excited about, the names began to blur together into one long, incomprehensible string for me. However, whenever Kauffman stopped to talk about a bird he particularly admired, the descriptions were always vivid and memorable.<br />You will come away from Kingbird Highway appreciating not only the birds, but the 17-year old who had the self-awareness and guts to pursue a different sort of dream. Don't miss this bookneeds to sort out his dreams, priorities and ambitions. <br />Finally, you will hear of the inevitable unplanned adventures that occurred as Kauffman hitched his way across the states. Highlights include weathering a rare snowstorm in the Carolinas with his buddy Scott, being stranded on Fort Jefferson island, and a Christmas Bird Count that almost gets him drowned.<br />My one difficulty with the book, given that I am not a birder, was Kauffman's tendency to rattle off the names of the birds he tracked down. Lacking the knowledge to really understand what he was seeing and getting excited about, the names began to blur together into one long, incomprehensible string for me. However, whenever Kauffman stopped to talk about a bird he particularly admired, the descriptions were always vivid and memorable. <br />You will come away from Kingbird Highway appreciating not only the birds, but the 17-year old who had the self-awareness and guts to pursue a different sort of dream. Don't miss this book	2002-01-15
US	49285965	RK9JBH6TPXVWP	1581500394	695158724	Cigar: America's Horse (Revised)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	What a Horse, What a Team	I am happy to report that the writer for this book is in the same league as the horse he's writing about. The result?  A thoroughly enjoyable story of how Cigar, the charismatic son of Palace Music and Solar Slew, carved a name for himself in racing history and in the process became the sweetheart of the sports world.<br />Author Jay Hovdey did his homework for the book, tracking down and interviewing all the major players in Cigar's life from the folks who foaled him to those who tended to his needs as he raced.  He also took the time to get to know and probe beneath the surface of the public exteriors of the people who surrounded Cigar.  This means that the reader has a feeling for how things unfolded behind the scenes as Hovdey relates Cigars meteroic rise to stardom.  What makes it even sweeter is that Cigar was a late bloomer with delicate legs that resulted in all but one of his initial 11 races being run on grass.  As it turns out, Cigar didn't like grass, and it wasn't until his bones had a chance to strengthen and someone in the stables lobbbied strongly for giving him a try on the dirt that Cigar came into his own.  And what a show it was!  Not only did he win 16 times in succession, equally Citation's record, but he beat out the best in international competition after being shipped to Arabia where he ran in unfamiliar surroundings on a less than ideal track.<br />If this book lacks anything, it's a personal connection with the horse by the author.  Although Hovdey does a great job of relating what others have to say about Cigar, you never have the feeling that he himself has connected with the spirit of the colt.  He talks about Cigar from a distance, removed by time and reporting from the immediate physical presence of the animal. Time and again you read that Cigar's exercise jockeys thought he was smart, how he loved peppermints, that his trainer always knew when he was in a playful mood, that he always carried himself with dignity, but in the end these are all second hand accounts.  You never get the feeling that you are actually in the presence of Cigar, running your hand down the muscled neck, smelling his sweat as he cools out, seeinig his one, white-ringed eye roll in your direction as he listens to what you're saying, the feel of his lips as he plucks one of the peppermint candies he was so fond of from your hand, smelling that sweet mix of straw, manure, linament and sweat that is so much a part of all stables. Perhaps because I've spent time around horses I missed these very personal touches which would have brought the horse alive for me.<br />In the end this is a very competent, well-written book, but it lacks the spark that would have made it a 5-star recommendation for me.are all second hand accounts.  You never get the feeling that you are actually in the presence of Cigar, running your hand down the muscled neck, smelling his sweat as he cools out, seeinig his one, white-ringed eye roll in your direction as he listens to what you're saying, the feel of his lips as he plucks one of the peppermint candies he was so fond of from your hand, smelling that sweet mix of straw, manure, linament and sweat that is so much a part of all stables. Perhaps because I've spent time around horses I missed these very personal touches which would have brought the horse alive for me.<br />In the end this is a very competent, well-written book, but it lacks the spark that would have made it a 5-star recommendation for me.	2002-01-13
US	49285965	R1LTWTPHDL1JTE	0679767983	172537646	Deep in the Green: An Exploration of Country Pleasures	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	The Garden as a Door	Welcome to the world of Anne Raver as seen through her garden. Here you will meet her loveable old dog Molly, &quot;a twelve -year-old Saint Bernard squished into a setter's body with some collie thrown in,&quot; and Mr. Grey a long-haired feline acrobat that endears himself to both Molly and the author despite all their efforts to dislike him.<br />Here too you learn about Raver herself as she plots and plans her gardens, agonizes about a move to a new house, struggles with insects and pesticides, life in the city versus the pull of her country roots, and her conflicted if loving relationship with her parents. Raver's interests, even with gardening as a base, are eclectic and far ranging. In one essay she waxes eloquent, though tongue in cheek, about breaking the law by growing poppies. In another she tells how she came to discover that cricket manure is a great fertilizer. In a third she tells of her triumph over a paralyzing fear of climbing ladders. All in all it's a wonderful stroll through one woman's life with plenty of amusing observation and touching insight thrown in.<br />My one complaint was that the length of the essays (they are reprints of articles Raver wrote for The New York Times) often means that the reader is left wanting to know more, to hear how a story ended, how a problem was resolved, whether or not Raver ever finds a man she can co-habitat with, what finally happens to the old family homestead. While I realize this is a limitation of the genre, I am hoping that Raver will eventually sit down and write a non-stop tale of her rich and varied life. Otherwise this is a wonderful, uplifting read.	2002-01-12
US	49285965	R3G5EBL5WYN8RB	067973239X	469185831	The Island Within	Books	5	41	42	N	N	A Passion for Place	Here is a book that you may have to digest in small bits. Nelson's prose is dense, descriptive and charged with an intensity that occasionally makes you wonder how he can stand to inhabit his own skin.  His description of the day he spent deer hunting for example - the physical strain of stalking, questioning the &quot;rightenss&quot; of his mental and spiritual state, worrying about having enough meat to tide himself and his family over for the winter, trying to read the signs he perceives in the woods, remembering the teaching of the elders of the Indian tribe he studied with - is exhausting for the reader as well as Nelson. This doesn't mean it wasn't worth the work; just that you may need a break every so often to catch your breath.<br />The Island Within is about a special relationship Nelson has built with an island in the Pacific Northwest.  When he is not there, studying the animals, hunting with his dog and exploring on his own or with his family, he is wishing he was and planning his next visit.  The reader is treated not only to graphic physical descriptions of the island and its inhabitants, but to Nelson's ongoing internal dialog with himself, in which he seeks to balance three very different ways of life - the loner, the family man and the student of Indian ways.<br />Perhaps the greatest gift offered by this book is a fresh look at how a human being can relate to his world.  As much as I came to appreciate the island, I also enjoyed Nelson's tales of his time spent away from it. His fishing trip with his son, the days he spends working in his garden picking berries, the long runs he takes with his dog, his playful attempt to sneak up on a family of seals and his description of the day he decided to open all his windows and let the winds of a large storm blow through his home are equally fun and revealing.  Here is someone who has recognized that he is part and parcel of the physical world, and has dared to tear down preconceived notions in order to interact with it in new and playful ways.<br />The one thing you should not expect from The Island Within is a clear cut plot and story line. This book is all about sharing at an elemental level.teract with it in new and playful ways.<br />The one thing you should not expect from The Island Within is a clear cut plot and story line. This book is all about sharing at an elemental level.	2002-01-12
US	49285965	RQAZEXF8HN8LH	1560252197	165080816	Wild: Stories of Survival from the World's Most Dangerous Places (Adrenaline)	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Not Wild But Weird	This is yet another in Clint Willis's ongoing series of adrenaline, adventure, survival, disaster, storm, etc. series in which he seeks to capitalize on the rage for danger and excitement that is currently sweeping the literary market. In my search for material for a class on adventure writing I teach, I have read all of them, and found them a mixed lot with some real gems thrown in. This particular anthology is no exception, though I wish Willis would stop over dramatizing his titles. A more realistic name for the collection might be, &quot;Exciting Moments in the Wilds,&quot; or &quot;Wildernesss Moments.&quot;<br />Questionable names aside (giving titles to books is an art after all) this collection has some stand out and downright bizarre pieces that are worth reading. If you're looking for a good old-fashioned adventure story with plenty of excitement, try Dave Robert's &quot;A Wilderness Narrrative,&quot; or Joe Kane's &quot;Savages.&quot; For more than you ever wanted to know about tropical diseases and the dangers of traveling in the Amazaon jungle, try Redmond O'Hanlon's &quot;In Trouble Again.&quot; But if you're looking for something really different, something that will not only entertain but make you question your sense of reality, read Barry Lopez's &quot;Pearyland,&quot; in which the main character (a student Lopez met in an airport) steps into another, parallel world, or &quot;The Willows&quot; by Algernon Blackwood. The Willows in particular carries a disturbing undertone of unease and menace. The things that happen in this story shouldn't, and there is no real explanation for them.<br />Other, less off the wall, though no less entertaining pieces inlcude Edward Abbey's &quot;Down the River&quot; and Evelyn Waugh's &quot;The Man Who Liked Dickens.&quot;<br />All in all, this is a worhty addition to Willis's growing pile of anthologies, thanks to the solid contributions from familiar and well-established names, but when will Willis dare to include the work of lesser known, though no less talented writers?e work of lesser known, though no less talented writers?	2002-01-12
US	49285965	R3KMCV3YNFDHB4	1581500602	265257588	Personal Ensign: Thoroughbred Legends	Books	2	6	6	N	Y	What a Horse, Too Bad About the Writer	Personal Ensign is truly one of thoroughbred racing's finest and most inspiring legends. Here is a filly who could run with the best of them, even the colts. Not only did she win every single race she was ever entered in, but she was able to recover from a broken pastern bone (a break that is often fatal), and race in top form again thanks to the wizardry of a remarkable surgeon and the devoted care of her trainer and stable crew.<br />Unfortunately, the author tries to do too much, attempting to cover the lives of not just the filly, but her ancestors, trainers and owners as well.  If the book was several hundred pages long, and the author had the time and space to really develop his subjects, it could have been intriguing. Instead what we get is a mismash of information that never allows the reader to really experience and feel what it was like to own and train a top quality thoroughbred. He doesn't begin to touch on the horse herself until Chapter 5.<br />My reaction is of course partly due to personal preference in reading material. When I buy a book about a famous athlete, whether it be a cyclist, thoroughbred or dancer, I am wanting to know what makes that athlete special, the circumstances that shape his or her personality, the people and situations that determine how a career unfolds. I want details, coherence and insightful commentary on how the story unfolds. I don't want a lot of casual facts and extraneous data.<br />What I missed in this book was Personal Ensign herself, which is a shame since even her photographs make it clear that she shone as a personality as well as a racer. Not a book for those who really want to feel what this horse was all about.	2001-12-29
US	49285965	R1M97HYNKHJE3D	0375727868	951460775	Rolling Nowhere: Riding the Rails with America's Hoboes	Books	5	24	24	N	N	In the Land of In Between	You've got to give Conover credit, the kid has guts. Discontent with his college studies, which seem a bit unreal and removed from real life, he decides to do some hands on research and give the life of a hobo a try. Predictably, things are not what he expects. The life of a hobo (more accurately known as a tramp) is far from romantic and most often full of hardship and danger. However, Conover also discovers a world of fascinating folks who, when push comes to shove, are not so different from the rest of us.<br />There is Lonny, the eternal optimist whose head is full of dreams that never materialize, Pistol Pete with his injured hand and jealous sidekick BB who propose a 3-muskateers deal and then run off with most of his gear, Forrest and Bill with whom he discovers the depths of being a tramp, and Monty who is pursued by personal ghosts.<br />Equally important to Conover's education is his personal transformation from a well-dressed, polite city kid to a rail smart tramp who won't let anyone take advantage of him. His hair grows, his clothes become dirty, layered and ragged, he learns to smoke and drink cheap booze, to scavange in dumpsters for leftover food and how to apply for food stamps.  Even more revealing to him is how he is treated as his physical appearance changes. Suddenly people look away, a policeman finds a reason to arrest him for walking on a public sidewalk and he is treated with mistrust and even disgust when he goes into stores.<br />Conover emerges from his adventures with a bad case of head lice but nothing worse physically. However, it is clear that his inner psyche has undergone a transformation.  He has questioned the assumptions of his middle class upbringing and dared to immerse himself in the lives of one of our country's most misunderstood groups. In writing frankly about his experiences, he forces the reader to see hoboes for who and what they really are - people like the rest of us doing the best they can to get by in this world. Such a revelation is always a bit of a shock, but in this case it was also heartening. The people in Conover's book are full of life and memorable quirks. They are real characters in every sense of the word, who force you to respond to their lives. The book is not an appeal to save the downtrodden, a psychological dissertation on the causes of poverty or a condemnation of a society that produces hoboes. It is simply one man's quest to understand another way of life and himself in doing so. You'll come away challenged, touched and questioning some of your own assumptions about how life should be lived.ch a revelation is always a bit of a shock, but in this case it was also heartening. The people in Conover's book are full of life and memorable quirks. They are real characters in every sense of the word, who force you to respond to their lives. The book is not an appeal to save the downtrodden, a psychological dissertation on the causes of poverty or a condemnation of a society that produces hoboes. It is simply one man's quest to understand another way of life and himself in doing so. You'll come away challenged, touched and questioning some of your own assumptions about how life should be lived.	2001-12-29
US	49285965	R3F6UB84WA0D7H	158150070X	264873703	At the Wire: Horse Racing's Greatest Moments	Books	3	15	19	N	Y	Nice Try	I wish I could say that I loved this book.  I wanted to love this book, since thoroughbreds and racing history are two of my favorite subjects. The quality of the paper and the photographs are outstanding. The subject matter is of course inspirational, but the truth of the matter is the writing did not live up to its promise. Bowden is obviously familiar with his subject, and undoubtedly has many stories to tell, but it all seems to have become jumbled up in his mind. He frequnetly starts talking about one topic (say a famous horse race), then goes off on a tangent (say the horse's owner), leaving the reader to try to figure out what has happened. He also fails to focus on one main theme or point in each of his essays, trying to cram ractrack gossip, the human drama and information about the horses (breeding, training history, previous races, etc.) all into the short space available. The result is that the really interesting, in-depth stuff, the details about the horse and what made him or her truly unique, never get written. I found this book very irritating to read and wish that Bowden had had a good editor around to help him pare down and focus his work. If you are wanting disjointed tidbits and facts, buy the book. If you are wanting to really experience the personalities of the horses and the excitement of the races they participated in try another source.	2001-12-14
US	49285965	R3G6GMX3IX6GFS	0393050009	934637647	Points Unknown: A Century of Great Exploration (Outside Books)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Revealing the Unknown	If adventurers, and what motivates them, fascinate you, then this book must be added to your reading list.  In it, some of the 20th. century's finest explorers and wanderers take you with them on their journeys.<br />As might be expected, there is drama.  The opening piece is taken from the diary of Robert Falcon Scott, written as he literally froze to death on his final trek back from the South Pole.  However, there is also tongue in cheek humor from the likes of Laurens Van Der Post and Eric Hansen, and superb, on-the-edge-of-your-chair excitement in pieces by Edward Abbey, Jon Krakauer and Joe Kane.<br />Here too, tucked into the corners of the collection are pieces one might not expect to find in an anthology of adventure writing.  There is Freya Stark's touching piece on Ishi, the last of a tribe of Northern California Indians, Clyde Kluckhohn's climb to Wild Horese Mesa, and Edward Hoagland's piece on a day spent trapsing over the Alberta Rockies that ends with the sighting of a lion.<br />Editor Dave Roberts and his team have done a marvelous job of pulling together some exceptionally fine writing that reveals the many sides of adventure. I had only three small complaints (not complaints really, just disgruntled comments). First, none of Roberts' writing was included, which was disappointing considering that he is one of our finest adventure writers working today. Second, there was an over emphasis on mountain pieces, which meant that some other equally fine writing had to be excluded. And third, there was a marked lack of works by women adventurers.  Roberts claims that he and his team hunted for women authors who met their criteria, but they were not to be found in the 20th. century.  Since I can think of 4 off the top of my head, I can only conclude that they didn't look very hard.  As I say, small bones of contention in an otherwise outstanding book.	2001-11-13
US	49285965	R2W160YDG1IN7R	0201622521	544313852	A Year In The Maine Woods	Books	5	54	54	N	N	Looking Close	To appreciate Bernd Heinrich, you have to be prepared to slow down and look close.  After all, the author himself has taken a year's leave of absence from a fast-paced university job to do just that.  He wants to spend time in his beloved woods, study the creatures that live there and see where long rambles will take him.  It not the sort of book to begin with an agenda in mind.<br />That said, I found A Year in the Maine Woods a quixotic mix of science and human exploits - a glimpse at the lives of a whole host of insects, birds, mammals and plant life I never knew existed, and a chance to share in one person's approach to learning.<br />Examples?  Let's take Heinrich's penchant for climbing trees.  For a full-grown, adult male he really does spend a lot of time in them, and as a result has some interesting stories to tell. There's the day he finds himself scrambling up a tree to avoid a moose who refuses to yield the right of way on a trail, and the time a doe wanders under the apple tree he is sitting in and proceeds to munch away.  No amount of noise or movement on Heinrich's part seems to disturb her until he descends from the tree.  Then she's off like a shot!<br />Here's another example.  Heinrich loves ravens.  He is fascinated by their intelligence, close-knit family systems, their flying ability and survival skills, and is not above combing the countryside for roadkill in order to provide food for them.  Heinrich's exploits with a pet raven are both hilarious and revealing. Here is a man who delights in life itself and is willing to put up with a fair amount of discomfort and irritation to learn about it.<br />If you enjoy learning about special places on our planet, and the creatures that inhabit them, through the eyes of those who have studied and know them intimately, then this book will delight you.  If, on the other hand you like your reading to be full of fast-paced action and spine-tingling climaxes, this is not the book for you.  Be prepared to read slowly and savor the pictures Heinrich offers.read slowly and savor the pictures Heinrich offers.	2001-11-13
US	49285965	R2H31Z4P86A7TN	0679742263	786028412	The Moon by Whale Light: And Other Adventures Among Bats, Penguins, Crocodilians, and Whales	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The Light is Clear	Here is an author I would like to call and thank. Not only is she articulate, poetic and interesting, but her fascination with and love for her subjects shines in every essay she writes.<br />Here is the very special world of a woman who sees with the clarity of a scientist and writes with the perception of a poet. Moreover, she writes from her own experiences hanging out in front of bat caves, tackling 500 pound alligators and cuddling baby penguins in refrigerated nurseries. Nothing stops her and not much phases her, but a lot of what she sees and experiences makes her stop and think. It is the thinking that attracts me as much as her stories. She is hard at work on her own vision of the world and the place human beings occupy in it. It is a vision worth considering.<br />Expect to be drawn with lyrical, insightful writing into the worlds of the creatures Ackerman studies, but expect to find yourself looking down the throat of some tough questions as well. I always come away from one of her books with some new thoughts to chew on. This book shouldn't be missed.	2001-10-29
US	49285965	R309LNEB8HFGO1	0385316593	671279786	Among Whales	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	Touched By Whales	I am astonished that this book is out of print.  How can this be?  Why aren't people using it as a textbook in writing, psychology, ethics and marine biology classes?  Why aren't high schools and universities clamouring to have Roger Payne speak at their commencement exercises? Why isn't he being interviewed by Oprah and Good Morning America?  Why isn't the name Roger Payne as familiar to us as Jacques Cousteau or Keiko the whale?  Believe me, it should be.<br />Roger Payne is a cetacean scientist - that is to say he studies whales - however that doesn't begin to tell you about what he really does or who he really is.  You see, Roger Payne swims up to Right Whales and looks them in the eye.  He hangs upside down next to Humpback whales in order to experience their bone shaking songs up close.  He spends hundredsd of hours a year on boats watching and recording the movements, behaviors and songs of whales.  Best of all, Roger Payne has stories to tell about another world that exists beyond land.  He knows and can prove, for example, that Humpback whales sing.  Yes sing. Not simply make sounds but create rhythm, patterns and notes in sequences that put some of our greatest composers to shame.  He has stories to tell of his encounters with whales that make it abundantly clear that they think, feel and communicate.  In short Roger Payne has something to teach us about our relationship to another species on this planet, and we should be listening.<br />But if you're not the sort to read a book just because it would be good for you, read it because Payne is a fine writer whose stories are well told and fascinating, and whose scientific explanations are so clear that even the most scientifically-challenged person can follow.  Read it because it will enchant you with its descriptions of whales at play and captivate you with its studies of why whales do what they do.  Read it because it will challenge your mind and touch your heart. It's that good.	2001-10-29
US	49285965	R3QA5HNIXPV20W	1879628120	582052375	Hills, Hawgs & Ho Chi Minh: More Tales of a Wayward Runner	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	Run On	You have to be or have been a dedicated runner, or at least a serious athlete, to appreciate the motivation behind the things that Don Kardong undertakes in this book.  It also helps to be or have been a triathlete and/or a multi-sport enthusiast since Kardong frequently finds himself involved in competitions which require skill in something other than running. Fortunately for everyone involved, Kardong has a great sense of humor and is truly in love with his sport.  Both dedication and humor are found in abundance here. I especially enjoyed the piece about Steve Prefontaine and Kardong's attendance at a Triathlete workshop where he steadfastly refused to so much as look at the swimming pool.  However, I did get a bit tired towards the end of all the over the top races - the grueling 50 miles, the Grand Canyon trek and the seemingingly endless marathons where he inevitably gets nauseated at mile 22.  Kardong is a truly talented writer whom I suspect has a bit more to say than he's letting on. Wonder what he'll write next?	2001-10-22
US	49285965	R26147IGO2IQ9Y	0684834820	170878080	A Newer World: Kit Carson, John C. Fremont and the  Claiming of the American West	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Wouldn't You Know	I'm beginning to think that one of Dave Roberts' favorite pastimes is debunking, or at the very least shedding new light on, old myths.  He did a bang up job in &quot;Great Exploration Hoaxes,&quot; and continues here with his examination of John Charles Fremont and Kit Carson.<br />Fremont, (in case you were like me and had no idea who he was), was a surveyor and leader of 5 expeditions into the west.  His fame was due mostly to the fact that he was in the right place at the right time.  He also had an industrious, wordsmith for a wife who turned his reports into interesting accounts of his journeys. These, when published, were instantly popular with a public that was just beginning to catch the Wild West Fever.<br />Nicknamed &quot;The Pathfinder,&quot; Fremont actually did very little original exploring. Instead he followed the trails pioneered by the early mountain men who had crisscrossed the western frontier in search of beaver.  Fremont's guide on these expeditions was Kit Carson.<br />Frankly, Kit Carson is by far the more interesting of the two men, and Roberts does a good job of reconstructing a personality which was by nature very private.  His job was complicated by the fact that Carson was illiterate and disliked being in the limelight.  Nevertheless his actions, which were recorded by many (including Fremont) speak eloquently about the man.  This is a fascinating read for anyone who enjoys redisovering history through the eyes of a talented writer.	2001-10-22
US	49285965	R2J0TWEKN53CT4	1571312242	89989288	Brown Dog of the Yaak: Essays on Art and Activism (Credo series)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Wandering Bass	In my humble opinion, Rick Bass is one of the finest writers working today - period.  At his best his work shines with insight and speaks so clearly that it's almost painful to hear the truth articulated so accurately.  That said, I confess to being a bit disappointed by this book.  There are moments of beauty as always.  The story of the mountain lion encountered while out hunting with Colter, for example, is classic Bass.  Not only does he capture the intensity and danger of the moment, and manage to bring the personality of the lion alive, but he is able to make us laugh at his own thoughts as he struggles to overcome his fear. Really remarkable.<br />However, Bass is obsessed by the loss of  his dog and what that loss has meant to him.  He has already written a lovely book on the subject, but apparently it wasn't enough to ease his pain. In trying to tie the animal's death to his work as a writer and activist in this book, you can tell he's stretching it.  It's almost as if the offer to write a book about activism was seen as another opportunity to voice his sorrow.  Somehow it just doesn't work.<br />This is not to say that you shouldn't read this book.  If nothing else it offers insight into the inner workings of one of our most gifted writers, but expect to struggle with Bass a bit.  For once you get the feeling he hasn't gotten it all worked out, that the words he's chosen aren't quite what he meant to say in some places.  To me, this is as valuable, and in some ways more meaningful, than reading the fine tuned stuff.  It just isn't as satisfying.<br />Perhaps the most interesting thing about reading this book for me was the reaction I had when I finished. Ordinarily I have a strong feeling of satisfaction when I come to the end of a Bass book.  I put it down and mentally tip my hat to a fellow writer. &quot;Well done!&quot; I say. This time however, I had a completely different response. At the end of Brown Dog of the Yak, I felt unsettled and slightly down.  Even more unusual was the urge I had to look Bass up, take him by the hand, look him in the eye, and say, &quot;It'll be all right, you'll see.&quot;wn.  Even more unusual was the urge I had to look Bass up, take him by the hand, look him in the eye, and say, &quot;It'll be all right, you'll see.&quot;	2001-10-22
US	49285965	R3HC8X296SWT8C	0691000654	283857845	One Man's Owl	Books	5	62	62	N	Y	Across the Divide	I like to think of Bernd Heinrich as a forest sleuth.  Nothing delights him more than prowling, or jogging, through miles and miles of his favorite Maine woods identifying and describing such things as the songs of birds, the cocoons of caterpillars, the smells of beetles and the droppings of moose.  In this case, his interests lead him to examine the contents of the stomachs of owls - in particular the stomachs of Great Horned Owls.  Owls it seems, eat their prey whole, separate the digestable from the indigestable portions in their stomachs, and when all is said and done regurgitate the inedible stuff as &quot;owl pellets.&quot;  More than you ever wanted to know about owls?  That's what I thought too at first, but it gets better - really.<br />Not long after discovering a nest of Great Horned Owls on his property, a storm destroys part of the nest and one of the chicks falls to the ground.  Heinrich, who can never resist an opportunity to study wild things up close, scoops the little fellow up, christens him Bubo and takes him home to raise.  What ensues is a delightful, often revealing account of how an owl and a man struggle to cross the divide between species.<br />That both are determined is obvious.  Heinrich puts up with all sorts of destructive and rude behavior from his childish guest. Bubo chews up, eats and regurgitates washcloths, favorite t-shirts and socks.  He holds staring matches with the family cat, terrorizes guests, whom he considers competitors for Heindrich's attention, and rearranges Heindrich's eating and sleeping schedule.  In return, Heindrich gets to study everything about the owl - from his eyelids and feather patterns to the mechanical workings of the owl's talons and the meanings of his various hoots and hisses.  It is an uneasy if affectionate relationship.<br />However Heinrich, who works as a university professor, must eventually return to his job and Bubo is sent to a wildlife rehabilitation center.  There, all attempts at rehabilitation fail and Bubo is pronounced incorrigable. It is also clear that Bubo is miserable.  Heinrich, who feels this is a waste of Bubo's life, eventuallly reclaims the bird, takes him back to Maine and spends another summer helping the bird find his adult wings.<br />This is a revealing and touching story that goes way beyond the scientific study that Heinrich originally planned. As Heinrich himself acknowledges it became a very personal thing, a relationship between one man and one owl. A wonderful read.bilitation fail and Bubo is pronounced incorrigable. It is also clear that Bubo is miserable.  Heinrich, who feels this is a waste of Bubo's life, eventuallly reclaims the bird, takes him back to Maine and spends another summer helping the bird find his adult wings.<br />This is a revealing and touching story that goes way beyond the scientific study that Heinrich originally planned. As Heinrich himself acknowledges it became a very personal thing, a relationship between one man and one owl. A wonderful read.	2001-10-22
US	49285965	R3J5GX8ENBKY4E	0679783245	812988975	Great Exploration Hoaxes (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	4	9	10	N	Y	Roberts Digs for Dirt	The problem with Dave Roberts is that he has established himself in a particular genre - i.e. intense, concise and slightly acerbic adventure writing. As a result, you tend to expect that approach from all his writing, which isn't really fair, but there you have it.<br />In Great Exploration Hoaxes, Roberts steps outside his usual format to do some research. I'm not really surprised. Comments in the introductions to his previous collections make it clear he is intrigued by the workings of the human psyche as well as the thrill of high risk adventure. However, this book is definitely a departure, and reads like a series of well-written research papers - which I guess, in essence, they are.<br />There is nothing wrong with Great Exploration Hoaxes. It is a good read and I recommend it, especially if you are interested in what history says versus what actually happened. The problem lies with Robets tackling historical data. It is hard to bring the dead back to life, especially when their writing is not available for comment. For example, Roberts does a fine job of getting the reader interested in John Cabot, but must rely on the work of Cabot's contemporaries and other researchers to substantiate his theories.<br />Roberts is at his best when he is relating the story and not supporting his hypothesis with data. But since he is trying to debunk some old myths, he naturally has to support his statements. It is an uneasy alliance that works, but is not the usual Roberts fare.<br />I recommend the book, but will be looking forward to Roberts' next tale of his own wanderings and resulting insights.	2001-09-29
US	49285965	R13NBFR416YO4D	158976076X	950170210	The Nile Tributaries of Abyssinia: And the Sword Hunters of the Hamran Arabs	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	Early African Adventure as Only a Brit Could Tell It	You've got to like the sometimes tedious, journal-style approach of early explorers, or at least be willing to put up with it, to appreciate this book. However, it holds some remarkable writing, insight and yes adventure. Baker was a contemporary of Richard Burton, John Henning Speke, Henry Morton Stanley and David Livingstone, all famous for their searches for the source of the Nile River in Africa. If you know anything about this time in history and about Africa itself, then you know that Africa was almost always fatal. Few who went into the interior returned, and those who did usually paid with their health. Not a pretty picture. Into this scene walks Samuel Baker, a wealthy, larger than life British aristocrat with a passion for exploration and excitement.<br />Baker was a man who tackled rather than simply lived life. A fine linguist, writer, artist and sportsman who hunted with a knife because it was too easy to kill with a gun, he was also extremely practical with a &quot;let's get on with it&quot; attitude towards his travels. Nothing but determined, he presses forward when others would have said, &quot;enough.&quot; Are you surprised that he succeeds where others have failed? I wasn't.<br />What I like about Baker's writing is that he knows how to tell a story. He is as interested in the people as he is in the facts of what happened. It also helps that Baker himself edited this book, picking and choosing the entries from his longer journal. If Baker is pompous and full of his own superiority at times, he can be forgiven. All in all this is a good read. It helps, however to have read his first book &quot;The Albert N'yanza Great Basic of the Nile&quot; first.	2001-09-26
US	49285965	RQPA7WPU4TLMA	0898866014	956844396	Escape Routes	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Top Notch Adventures, Top Notch Writing	They don't come any better than Dave Roberts. His writing is crisp, clean, a little sardonic at times, and hard-edged.  Roberts originally made a name for himself as a top flight rock climber. As a writer, he is equally skilled.  He knows what it's like to risk his life for something he wants, but has enough perspective on himself to question his motives. What I like most about Roberts however, is that he has never stopped growing.  Read &quot;Moments of Doubt&quot; and you'll get an inside look at the all consuming nature of rock climbing. Read &quot;Rambling Through the Winds,&quot; and you'll learn how the personality quirks of llamas can endanger your life on the trail.  Almost anything is fair game for Robert's pen, including old explorers who faked their accomplishments (see the book, &quot;Great Exploration Hoaxes).  Escape Routes is an eclectic mix of vintage Roberts.  You'll find hair raising rock climbing, descents into caves, a discourse on Outward Bound, and yes the cantankerous llamas. If you really love good adventure writing then this is a must.	2001-09-15
US	49285965	R3ETSJYMIC4ISM	0072122692	845226839	FrontPage 2000: Get Professional Results	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	If You Want to Learn FrontPage Read This	You know how so many \\"how to\\" books are either so simple they never get around to telling how to do anything but turn on your computer, or they drop the ball somewhere leaving you halfway through a project? Well, this book assumes that the beginner has some brains and follows through. It's well-written and thorough. The biggest problems I had were FrontPage's quirks, but that's not London's fault. She points them out with amusement, and tells you what to do to cope with them. Thank you for a book I can really use!	2001-06-07
