US	49293614	R1C3H14WXUZZYT	0571199828	648157982	The Emperor and the Wolf: The Lives and Films of Akira Kurosawa and Toshiro Mifune	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Doorstop Masterpiece	Akira Kurosawa is generally regarded as one of the (handful of) greatest directors that have ever worked in the medium (alongside such luminaries as Sergei Eisenstein, John Ford, Alfred Hitchcock and Jean Renoir).  Francis Ford Coppola has said that, of all film directors, Kurosawa is the only one whose films you can divide into masterpieces and \\"the simply very, very good.\\"  Inspired by Japanese history (a whole sub-genre of Japanese cinema known as jidai-geki, what we would call period costume), French policier noir, Italian neo-realism, American westerns, Shakespeare and Russian literature, amongst many others, Kurosawa's work - whilst difficult to exactly pigeonhole - is informed by a devout humanism and a sense that a single individual can achieve and affect much larger change.  Starring in over half of Kurosawa's output, and making many of the films that now regularly find themselves in `best-ever' lists (such as Rashomon, Seven Samurai, Throne of Blood, Red Beard, Yojimbo, Stray Dog and High and Low), Toshiro Mifune (pronounced mi-foo-nee) is perhaps best thought of as the John Wayne to Kurosawa's John Ford (or the De Niro to Kurosawa's Scorcese). <br />With The Emperor and the Wolf, Stuart Gilbraith IV has fashioned a huge and scholarly book that will act, for successive generations, as something of a monument to a specific time and place (in that, for example, many of the films discussed herein - particularly with regard to Mifune - are either no longer available or are extremely difficult to find).  Furthermore, much of the academic information Gilbraith has rooted out (such as the cast lists that populate his exhaustive filmography of Kurosawa and Mifune's work) has previously never been noted, not even on the films themslves.  Furthermore, although the title indicates that this is primarily a work of filmic biography centring on Kurosawa and Mifune, The Emperor and the Wolf is also deeply rooted in the history of Japanese cinema (touching on Ozu and Mizoguchi and countless others, many of whom have rarely been discussed outside of Japan).     <br />In terms of the specifics, the pattern of exposition is quite curious.  For example, Gilbraith examines each of Kurosawa's films with masterful detail - there are summaries, opinions (from Gilbraith), often hilarious contemporary reviews, potted biographies of individual cast members and occasionally surprising reappraisals of films (for example, Gilbraith rates Red Beard above Rashomon, as many Japanese do).  The majority of Mifune's films, on the other hand, are not given anywhere near as much attention (although part of the reason for this must be to do with the fact that (a) Mifune starred in well over a hundred films and (b) many of them are of passing interest, seeing as how, towards the end of his career, Mifune was little more than a jobbing actor playing war heroes - often the SAME war heroes - and samurai - themselves 2-D reruns of Yojimbo - willy-nilly).  Conversely, where Gilbraith rarely offers much in the way of biographical dissection (we don't know get to really develop a picture of what kind of people Kurosawa and Mifune are), we end up with a far better idea of the kind of man Mifune was (energetic actor, gentle man offscreen, something of a drinker, intimidated by the way his name and fame were constantly linked to Kurosawa) than we do with Kurosawa (referred to as `the Emperor' by the majority of people he worked with, had a tendency to fly off the handle at his star names, was eccentrically thorough when it came to the construction of his sets etc).  Part of the reason for this can be linked to an admission Kurosawa himself made in the introduction to his book Something like a Biography: \\"Take `myself', subtract `movies' and the result is `zero'.\\"<br />Gilbraith's unwillingness to dissect the men themselves gradually becomes something of a minor problem.  As such, crucial moments in this book read like mere reportage.  We don't really grasp why Kurosawa and Mifune cease working together (for example, Gilbraith refers to the acrimony that developed between Kurosawa and Mifune without delving into what the nature of that acrimony was).  Similarly, the coverage of Kurosawa's suicide attempt (he cut his throat eight times and his wrists six) at the age of 62 following the disastrous Tora! Tora! Tora! and the perceived failure of Dodes-kaden is brief and unrewarding.  (Gilbraith passes on an anecdote from Kurosawa's nephew:  \\"I asked the question `Why did you do it?'  You know what my uncle said? `A man who commits suicide always has a reason he wants to take to his grave, so don't try to dig it up.  Don't ask me that question.' That was the end of the conversation.\\"  The nephew might as well be Gilbraith.)  <br />Still, it is a slight complaint to make of a book that otherwise more than justifies the price of admission.  The Emperor and the Wolf is a joy to read (a joy that does what all great film books should), sending you back to watch the films you have seen countless times before with new eyes and a keener understanding of the context in which they originally appeared.  <br />An absolute must for students of Kurosawa, Mifune, Japanese film or, I must hasten to add, the history of cinema.  Highly recommended.	2002-05-29
US	49293614	R3IBN365XGVLRG	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Daddy	Pilgrimage (which my dictionary defines as a journey to a shrine or sacred place as an act of devotion, in order to acquire spiritual merit, or as part of a process of self-discovery) can take many forms.<br />The Egyptians, for instance, journeyed to Sekket's shrine at Bubastis or to Ammon's oracle at Thebes; the Greeks sought for counsel from Apollo at Delphi and for cures from Asclepius at Epidaurus; the Mexicans gathered at the huge temple of Quetzal; the Peruvians massed in sun-worship at Cuzco and the Bolivians in Titicaca.  Huge gatherings of people intermittently all the year round venerate Kapilavastu where Gaukama Buddha began his life, Benares where he opened his sacred mission, Kasinagara where he died; and Mecca and Medina have become almost bywords in English as the goals of long aspirations, so famous are they for their connexion with the prophet of Islam.<br />Me?  I just re-read Watchmen.<br />Okay, I don't have to walk as far as regular pilgrims do (the distance from my chair to my bookshelf), but the act is at least as holy, I am at least as devout.  Watchmen is my shrine or sacred place.  Reading Watchmen is my act of devotion.  Through Watchmen I acquire spiritual merit (at least in my own eyes).  Reading Watchmen is part of my process of self-discovery.<br />If you know Watchmen, you'll understand why I feel the way I do.<br />If you don't (if you've been worshipping the sun at Cuzco, for instance, or the Gaukama Buddha at Kapilavastu), it's probably best if we start at the beginning.<br />It is 1985, and we live in a world that has known superheroes for thirty years or more.  Years ago, the public loved them, years ago when superheroes meant Minutemen.  But that was a long time ago.  Now there's legislation.  Superheroes aren't something that the Government want to encourage.  That's why the Watchmen had to disband.  And yet it seems that disbanding isn't enough for some people because some people - who we don't know - want the Watchmen dead .. . Rorshach (who is sort of a skinny Philip Seymour Hoffman playing Judge Dredd as Ignatius T Reilly), who is probably the finest invention within a graphic novel ever (far outstripping Miller's Dark Knight and  Morrison's Invisibles and Gaiman's Sandman and anybody else you'd care to mention), is on the case but whether he'll be able to find out who the perp is before the world ends . . . That's another matter altogether . . .<br />The use of TV, the various clocks that appear throughout (with the minute finger edging ever closer to the white nuclear midnight), the character of Rorshach (you keep coming back to that), the ketchup-streaked smiley face, the white frames, the colour, the pirate ship, the horror (the horror) . . . I could go on (and would at the least invitation). Watchmen is the first word in graphic novels, the first word.  If there was a word that could somehow suggest something was MORE than essential, that would be the word I would say to you now (and the word would trigger a Manchurian Candidate-style response from you, such that you rise from your seat and don't stop until you hold in your hands a copy of Watchmen).<br />This is the Daddy.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	RJ3R78TX38KTZ	0007141076	958226210	Unless: A Novel	Books	4	56	59	N	N	How to be Good	If I was lazy I'd tell you that this is the book that Nick Hornby's How to be Good could have been (if Nick Hornby was even a fifth of the writer that Carol Shields is).  Or I could say that this is a twenty-first century reinterpretation of When She Was Good, one of Philip Roth's earlier masterpieces. <br />Unfortunately, such laziness would do this rather wonderful and thought-provoking book a grave disservice -  in that, although goodness - the idea of goodness, what it means to be good - is at the centre of this book, it shares that space with ruminations on the art of writing, and what it is to be a woman (and a woman writer, and a wife, and a mother, and a friend, and a person in the world) at the beginning of what we like to regard as a more enlightened time to be alive.<br />Reta Winters took her husband Tom's surname when they first got together (part of the reason being that she was originally Reta Summers and they both agreed that one of the seasons had to change).  In lots of ways, this information (which is almost the opposite of a revelation, whatever the word for that is) contains the genesis of this novel writ small.  They have three daughters together, Reta and Tom, the oldest of whom decides on the cusp of her nineteenth birthday to throw up her studies and live on the street with a simple cardboard sign - on which the word GOODNESS is written - on a string around her neck.  Reta has no idea why her daughter has chosen this path and that - the abstract decision to withdraw from the life you are expected to live - throws the world out of kilter.  To all intents and purposes life continues on as it did before (Reta and Tom still sleep together, Reta continues to write the sequel to her comic novel, the family entertain at Christmas).  Beneath the surface, however, and within Reta, you realise that the world these characters inhabit has come to resemble nothing so much as the scab that forms over damaged skin.<br />The title of the book, and each of the chapter titles that follow, are made up of what Shields calls \\"little chips of grammar (mostly adverbs and prepositions) . . . words like therefore, else, other, also, thereof, theretofore, instead, otherwise, despite, already and not yet.\\"  These words act as the \\"odd pieces of language\\" that cement the isolated events in a person's life to form \\"a coherent narrative.\\"  The adverbs and the prepositions, the words you do not notice, commingle with Reta's attempts to rebuke the various men in positions of authority who continually overlook the debt history owes to women (believing in part that her daughter's complaint has been brought on as a direct result of NOT BEING HEARD - which, in a way, as the climax reveals, is the case). <br />There is grit here and pain (that all too human attempt to comprehend that which is beyond comprehension: the actions of others), and the writing is deceptively easy on the eye (an ease that is assisted by Shields all-too-middle-class narrator, but that is the point - Reta didn't expect the world to let her down in the way that it has, pain happens to other people, pain is on the news not here, in my living room, at my dinner party, during Christmas).  Unless is the kind of book that feels like streetlevel access to the underground (you're standing on a grill as a train thunders by beneath you, and the grill continues to rattle long after the train has passed): here is a thoughtful novel that lingers in your mind, shaky and insecure as one would be having grappled with big questions (and approached shaky answers, Mr Hornby - See! It can be done!!). <br />Although there is a gentleness to the telling (in that Shields' narratorial tone is always sensitive to the voice of her characters), Unless is steely in its penetration of life (of a certain kind of life), and resolute in its attempt to understand abstraction.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	R3M83BBRP8OB11	0375421041	27158829	The Dark Room: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	This is not a novel	...The Dark Room concerns itself with events in Germany before, during and after the Second World War.  There is Helmut (who reads like an echo of The Tin Drum's  Oscar Matzerath), a boy born without a pectoral muscle who, as a result, cannot fight alongside his friends and neighbours in the war.  Already quiet and withdrawn, Helmut withdraws from his family into the dark room where he works developing photographs of Berlin and surreptitiously noting the numbers of people leaving the city not to return. Lore comes next.  She is a fourteen year old girl forced by circumstance (her parents are imprisoned by the Americans in the first days of defeat) to travel across country with her sister and three brothers, confronting death and national shame in the revelation of the Holocaust (they are American actors those people, yes, the people in the large graves covered in lime?).  Micha figures last (and figuratively acts as Sieffert's retelling of Schlink's The Reader), attempting to understand the role played by his grandfather in the war (that perennial question, did you kill, did you kill, did you kill?). <br />All of which makes for a thoughtful and compelling read.  Sieffert has a remarkable talent for saying something complex simply.  Her sentences are short.  The words she selects do their job better than you would ever expect simple words to do. Stray details (tree blossom, cloud, shoe leather, straw) conjure wider space.  A world falls into place without you noticing.  <br />And yet there is a problem with Rachel Sieffert's debut novel.  The problem is this: this is not a novel.  What you have here are two novellas and a short story.  Two novellas and a short story that are connected by the fact that they are all set in Germany and revolve around events that took place during the Second World War.  Because you read expecting a novel, you strain your eyes looking for what connects the characters within each section but, of course, nothing (other than historical context) connects these characters.  Each tale is distinct.  The Dark Room (like David Mitchell's Ghostwritten, another collection of pieces masquerading as a novel) is very, very, very good.  But it is not a novel.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	R2KSGLO8N4HY92	1569716099	81931578	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	1	2	12	N	N	Save Yr Money	Your initial reaction to this book will be based on your feelings toward the film of the same name. The Star Wars saga tends to inspire fierce devotion and intense loathing.  It's one of those things.  Either your world is rocked or it isn't.  I tend to err on the side of the rock (although I'm not a freak or anything about it, I wouldn't join any queues in Seattle if you know what I'm saying).  I think Star Wars is alright.  Okay Phantom Menace was a little limp, but Attack of the Clones is a marked improvement (in a lot of ways it's better than, say, Return of the Jedi).   <br />This book, however, leaves me cold.  <br />When I heard there was a graphic novel of Attack of the Clones, I couldn't help but wonder just how it was produced.  Did all of the artists involved get a sneaky peek at the movie way in advance?  Are the artists involved the same artists that worked on the movie?  The back cover copy states that Attack of the Clones was \\"adapted here in graphic novel format by writer Henry Gilroy FROM THE FILM'S ORIGINAL SCREENPLAY by George Lucas and Jonathan Hales.\\"  That's good, I thought.  That means that - okay, the artists are privvy to the action and the dialogue but, crucially, they can reimagine the context in which the action and the dialogue take place.  It's a graphic novel after all.  There have to sparks of invention otherwise - what is the point?  I mean, who would want to read a shot-for-shot version  of the film in graphic novel form?  Really?  I'd love to know.<br />Because that is what you get.  Somebody has drawn the film.  This is a memento of that.  Which means, don't you know, that this is just one more example (and forgive me for being so naïve that it's taken me this long to say) of Lucas' need to spin as much money as possible from his fat Star Wars spider.  This is redundant art.  This is art as commerce, pure and simple.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	RUAQU2NYW5XP9	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	The Rules of the Game	Atonement, Ian McEwan's ninth novel, is split into three very definite phases.<br />The first phase is very much pastoral modernism (by which I mean that it reads like Renoir's La Regle du Jeu rewritten by Virginia Woolf).  Briony Tallis, a precocious thirteen year old has composed a play (The Trials of Arabella) for her brother Leon, only the preparations for the performance are disrupted by the arrival of her cousins Lola, Jackson and Pierrot from the abstract North (\\"refugees,\\" McEwan writes, \\"from a bitter domestic civil war.\\").  With the play thrown into disarray, Briony sulks in her room - a sulk that allows her to glimpse a very peculiar scene involving her sister Cecilia [taking] off her clothes in the garden before her childhood friend Robbie Turner.  The ambivalent feelings stirred in Briony by the soundless scene she witnesses bring the tiny, polite country world crashing down around their ears before the day is out.  <br />The middle of the book occurs sometime later, in the midst of the Second World War.  Robbie Turner has served the jail time visited upon him as a result of Briony's claims, and  now finds himself in France making the perilous journey towards the beaches at Dunkirk.  He and Cecilia are in love.  She writes to him: \\"They turned on you, all of them, even my father.  When they wrecked your life they wrecked mine.  They chose to believe the evidence of a silly, hysterical little girl.  In fact, they encouraged her by giving her no room to turn back.\\"  Cecilia vows that she will \\"never want to speak to  (Briony) again.\\"  Both of the sisters have become nurses but their relationship will never be as it was.<br />The brief coda (that runs to a length of no more than twenty pages) changes all that we have read up this point.  It is London, 1999.  Briony Tallis is a celebrated novelist, and what we have read has been adapted by her for our consumption.  Yes, these events took place, but not as described here.  This has been a novel.  What truththere has been is outweighed by a tidy neatening of events.  \\"Who would want to believe that they never met again, never fulfilled their love?\\" she writes.  \\"No-one will care what events and which individuals were misrepresented to make a novel.\\"  Her atonement, when it comes, is the attempt to make a better world for the people she was party to the destruction of.  And yet, and yet, \\"how can a novelist achieve atonement when, with her absolute power of deciding outcomes, she is also God?  There is no-one . . . that can forgive her.\\"<br />What you have, what this successive redrawing of boundaries achieves, is both a novel (there are characters, there is a compelling story, there is vivid writing that peels off the page the way the soldier's bandage peels back to reveal raw brain) and a meta-novel (a discussion of the very idea of what a novel could and should constitute, all of which is both enormously thought-provoking and enormously compelling).  While it is untrue to say that McEwan has not written as well elsewhere (Enduring Love, Black Dogs and The Child in Time all spring immediately to mind), there is a certain abstract something to all of this which suggests he has raised his game: Atonement is that rare beast we all look forward to at the beginning of each year: that book which sets the bar for all of the others, that book which says THIS IS A NOVEL, that book which says COMPETE WITH THIS.   <br />This is the book that should have won the 2001 Booker Prize.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	RM659PY9Y8VNU	052594642X	838675611	The Impressionist	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Connecting Nothing with Nothing	If you cut a shape out of a folded piece of paper, and then you threw the shape you cut away, you'd still be able to work out what shape you cut because you'd have the piece of paper you used to cut the shape.  Am I right?  You follow me?  But what about if - somehow - you could cut a shape out of the air and fashion a man from the air that you cut?  The man will have no substance, you won't be able to make him out, he'll be all air, and - what's worse - the context won't help you either, because the context is as insubstantial as the man you made.<br />That's The Impressionist to a tee.  This is a book about a man without an identity, a man who spends his entire life attempting to fit in (which is, in some respects, what assimilation is all about, and it could be argued that here is a book that aims to depict the life of the migrant, the life of a kind of migrant).  The fruit of a flooded love, Pran Nath is raised by the man who believes himself to be his father until said father learns otherwise and casts (at this point pretty spoilt) young Pran out into the street.  From here on in, Pran attempts to live what the narrator calls &quot;the unexamined life&quot; (a life diametrically opposed to that which Socrates said was essential).  From here on in, Pran (or rather not-Pran, everything-but-Pran, not that Pran was a firm bedrock on which to grow - everything shifts here, this Rushdie world is built on sand) adopts the faces and shapes and tics and mannerisms of wherever his flighty feet take him (Bombay, Norfolk, Oxford, Paris, Africa), the tragedy of his attempt to assimilate (his attempts to portray himself as whiter than white) the very thing that in the end rob him of that which he most desires.<br />Standing guard in Africa towards the very end of this fine, long novel, Jonathan (as he is by now known) finds that &quot;By the time his two-hour stint is over, his boundaries have dissolved altogether and he is lost, or perhaps not so much lost as dispersed through the darkness, his turning world bereft of still points, radically uncertain about who or where or why he is, or even whether he has the right to call himself a he at all.&quot;  Kunzru's novel is a kind of wasteland (or Wasteland, if you'd rather), a grand attempt to connect nothing with nothing that ends (curiously enough) when that desire to belong evaporates and this curious man-cut-from-the-air we have followed over however many hundreds of pages disappears in the heat haze of another desert (the desire to belong being that thing which unified the chimera we observed, and - with desire gone - nothing much remains but a Beckettian walking-thing, a thing that walks out of the end of the book and from our sight).<br />Whilst it may be that marketing The Impressionist as this year's White Teeth was not the smartest thing in the world (this is not as accessible as White Teeth - which isn't to say that this is a difficult book and more to say that this book is slightly harder to quantify), it may be that Kunzru contains within him powers that yet elude Zadie Smith (only The Autograph Man will lay that particular puzzle to rest).  Either way, it's a case, again, of not letting the hype put you off a good, solid and promising debut novel.	2002-05-23
US	49293614	R3TGBVVUMEOPYE	1899598200	298085416	Shamanspace	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Lightspeed Amber Spyglass	My (limited) understanding of what transpires within Shamanspace goes (something) like this: there is a God (who resembles a titanic black insect floundered on its back at the centre of an infinite nerve net, fiddling a million legs amid the ferocious stench of vomit and scorching wires), and there are forces at work (opposing forces known as the Prevail and the Internecine) who wish to destroy God (by entering his ethereal body like an ethereal virus and detonating his ethereal heart).  <br />Aylett explains (in the epilogue, after the trip is over, as you come down): The splinter group known as the Prevail  formed by those who considered that god was a thing separate from its works, and that the universe would persist after gods assassination  began a series of splinter skirmishes against the Internecine (or, as they began to call us, the ashers) which soon became a full cult war . . .<br />The book begins with Melody and Sig (a kind of teacher and pupil) discovering Alix (a mythical, semi-legendary being now white-haired and golden-eyed) in an abandoned (house?).  Alix tells them how he got there over the course of the novel: basically, there was an attempt upon his life, he fled to Paris (or rather he valved to Paris, spilling like hot metal across what William Gibson would probably call nodal points) where there was a second attempt on his life (a mad chase across the city, endless valving and spuming and blurring, phantoms spilling in and out of gutters and grouting); he is captured, betrayed, freed and escapes to make his attempt upon the life of God.  I dont think he succeeds (but Im willing to be convinced otherwise).    <br />As with William Gibson, it is not always clear what is going on (you cling to the words, despite the fact that the words sound like metal bees clunking against the insides of your bucket head), and there are times when you lose yourself (the book spirals up and away into some abstract place, rehearsingthe relationship between hot air and smoke) yet still you read.  <br />Im not entirely certain as to why (but maybe its because this is a reading experience you do not control, this is reading experience as intoxicant, reading experince as trip).  <br />If the idea of a trip in the company of Burroughs or Gibson (or Chris Morris, at times) in which you are propelled through the action of The Amber Spyglass at lightspeed doesnt fill you with terror, this is the (book?) for you.	2002-04-25
US	49293614	R2W2B9B5BP0OVS	0743225120	164400726	A Child's Book of True Crime: A Novel	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Murder Margaret Atwood Wrote	This book is like an over-large child's jigsaw puzzle (you know the ones I mean: each piece of the puzzle is inchthick and cut from wood) with one, two, three, four, five pieces missing.  You can't tell what the picture is supposed to be (you've lost the top of the box), but - from what you can make out - it looks like it could have been interesting.<br />Kate Byrne is a twenty-two year old teacher at a small school in Tasmania.  She is having an affair with Thomas, the father of Lucien, one of the children in her class. What complicates the issue somewhat is the fact that Thomas' wife, Veronica, is the celebrated author of a book entitled Murder at Black Swan Point, an account of a local murder in which a young woman was savagely murdered, supposedly by the wife of the man she was having an affair with.  <br />When you learn that somebody has scratched I KNOW on Kate's classroom door and tampered with her brakes, you might think so-far, so Murder She Wrote. However, that would be to overlook the presence of Kate's own book (which acts as a preface to each chapter), a true crime book for children (basically retelling - or reinvestigating - the events of Murder at Black Swan Point with animals standing in for their human counterparts).  <br />Okay, you say.  So it's a literary Murder She Wrote (with Angela Lansbury playing - say, Margaret Atwood).  Well, yes and no.  Because Chloe Hooper is no Margaret Atwood (much as I think she would like A Child's Book of True Crime to mirror the success of Alias Grace).  This feels very much like a first novel.  Don't get me wrong.  There are lots of good things here (what goes on in Kate's mind, the relationship between Kate and Thomas and Veronica, the brief sex scene behind the recycling bins).  It's just that we often find ourselves being driven further and further away from the crime scene, as it were (I'm not convinced the animal story is useful or successful, I'm not convinced Kate would so easily start brandishing a knife, I'm not convinced everything would slip apart as faultlessly as it does).  <br />I'm afraid it's a case of 4 out of 5 for effort, but only 2 or 3 out of 5 for accomplishment.	2002-04-25
US	49293614	R198O39VYAXDN2	0393321177	294087031	Losing Nelson (Norton Paperback Fiction)	Books	3	23	24	N	N	EchoDooLalia	Before I can explain to you why Barry Unsworth's Losing Nelson is such a peculiar book, I have to prepare you by giving you a little clue as to what to expect herein.  <br />First off, our narrator, Charles Cleasby, is something of a fanatic when it comes to the life and exploits of one Lord Horatio Nelson.  He recreates battles in miniature upon his late father's now converted billiard table, as and when they took place.  He buys virtually any Nelson memorabilia he can get his hands on and displays it (if display can be said to be the right word) in a locked cabinet in his basement, the door of which remains always locked.  Charles is also in the process of writing a book about the great man, in which he hopes to clear up the black spot that has marked Nelson's otherwise blemish-free historical reputation: a period of roughly one year between 1798 and 1799 which Nelson spent in Naples. <br />It goes like this: Nelson entered Naples as the conquering hero (having recently fought and won a battle on the Nile), met and began to conduct an affair with Emma Hamilton (with the apparent blessing of her husband, the ageing Lord Hamilton) and stuck his oar into the relationship that then existed between Naples and France to the degree that France and Naples began to wage both internecine and open warfare with each other.  There was a certain amount of toing and froing (first Naples appeared to have the upper hand and then France) before we reach the crux of the blemish: there is a siege, with Jacobin rebels (fighting on the side of the French) holed up in a castle resisting the forces for good (in this case, Nelson, Naples et al).  The Jacobin rebels refuse to emerge, believing they will be torn to shreds by the King's guards.  Nelson appears to promise them free passage, only for their original belief (the tearing to shreds) to hold true.  Did Nelson know?  Did Nelson betray them?  What exactly happened?  <br />Nobody really knows.  It all comes down to interpretation, whether you regard Nelson as a hero (as Charles Cleasby indefatigably does) or a cold fraud (as Miss Lily, the secretarial help Charles employs to help him with his book, does).  <br />Parallel to Nelson's story, of course, is that of his \\"dark twin\\", or \\"land shadow\\", Charles.  What story there is.  Because Charles does not do very much.  He dwells on Nelson a lot, dwells on his own and others' views of Nelson.  He inhabits a fairly rigid routine, rarely straying beyond the confines of his house (rarely thinking about eating, rarely cleaning, rarely thinking about the world at large, all the time avoiding avoiding avoiding modern reality, choosing instead to inhabit this peculiar space pressed flat between the pages of so many history books).  <br />Charles is a kind of eccentric extremist, choosing to annotate the sections of his book that he has already written rather than engage with those problems that stop him proceeding (his is life as writer's block).  He is a wrong man, a broken man, a being totally focussed on a single icon to the exception and detriment of everything else.  Here is a man that fills notebooks with line upon line of tiny print.  Here is R.Crumb's brother.  <br />And yet what is particularly curious about all of this is that - in choosing to tell us about the life of Charles Cleasby - Barry Unsworth behaves in much the same way that Charles Cleasby does.  Charles focusses on (and finds himself beaten by) a short period of Nelson's life.  We examine that short period in rather intense detail.  Similarly, Barry Unsworth focusses on a short period in the life of Charles Cleasby.  If Charles Cleasby is a kind of watermark, a kind of nowhere man, then Losing Nelson is the watermark of a watermark, the palimpsest of a palimpsest, a shadow's echo, echolalia. <br />All of which leaves you feeling - well, a bit funny.  To read this book to the end requires you to adopt that shadowy mantle, to exist concommitant with shadows and airy nothings (to the degree that - upon arriving at Losing Nelson's sudden violent conclusion - you just don't feel it: it's history, but history that has not been brought satisfactorily to life.)<br />Losing Nelson is an odd, odd fish.  Yes, it is erudite and well-written but - at the same time - there is a peculiar lack of substance here, a feeling that you can't get to grips with the book however hard you try.	2002-04-09
US	49293614	R1RMIPXIHRDCJG	0060929650	641342878	The Name of the World: A Novel	Books	4	2	3	N	N	The Bone Details	This is very much novel as abstract painting (and Johnson is very much novelist as abstract painter), in that (as with Don DeLillo's last book, The Body Artist) here is a novel that attempts to get to grips with the passage of a human being through the many varied and difficult stages of grieving.  This is serious.  It requires thought and patience.  <br />Michael Reed is a college professor whose wife and child were killed in an automobile accident four year's previously.  Over the course of a single summer, he develops an attachment with a student, loses his job and is forced to examine again the way he deals with - and his own place in - the world.  Johnson's writing is both stark and beautiful (there is something terrible about a mind that has abnegated responsibility due to a conflict too great to be resolved), and the details accrete like so much hard bone: the novel is episodic, but each episode remains in your mind like freed and bleached shoulder blades erected in a pile. <br />The Name of the World inhabits similar territory to The Sweet Hereafter (both Russell Bank's book and Atom Egoyan's film) and the aforementioned Body Artist (although The Name of the World succeeds - transporting you to a world where Joy Division's Atmosphere is the only soundtrack - where The Body Artist fails: yes, both deal in chilly abstraction, but Johnson's book attempts to achieve a kind of adult resolution, where DeLillo withdraws further and still further from the abstractions he chooses to create). <br />Johnson is the kind of writer you champion knowing he isn't to everybody's tastes (he is difficult, at times, and unyielding, but that just goes to make for writing that makes demands upon the reader, challenging you to interpret what it is you are faced by).	2002-04-09
US	49293614	R1R5HGH7UBKMG9	1863305416	543187378	Snake	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Simplicity	There is a power in simplicity.  You have a story to tell, and you tell it.  The language of that story is not peripheral, the language of that story - the words you choose to tell that simple story - are central: it is the integration (the symbiosis) of the right words and the purest most perfect moment that make an art of brevity.  <br />Samuel Beckett, for instance, spent the better part of his writing life refining and refining and refining the words he used to say what he felt needed to be said (each refined piece of art taking up less space than the one that preceded it). Jorge Luis Borges, likewise (in fact: Borges famously commented that Gabriel Garcia Marquez' One Hundred Years of Solitude could well have done with being fifty years shorter). <br />Kate Jenning's Snake, similarly, epitomises what can be achieved in the form of a short novel (in much the same way that William Trevor epitomises what can be achieved in the short story): over the course of just over 150 pages (and 76 chapters, some of barely a page in length), she traces out the married lives of Rex and Irene on a farm in the Australian outback, from their marriage and initial optimism through the gradual souring of the lives they share.  Rather than tell us everything (rather than pin the details of this failing marriage to a calendar), Jennings scorches the details of a specific moment or pivotal event into a single chapter.  As the chapters race by you, so your feelings for those involved deepen in a rather remarkable way.	2002-04-09
US	49293614	R39JKVVS2YMY9F	1860468357	749038842	Death and the Penguin	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Threatened with feathers	Living in a Russian high-rise with your pet penguin Misha can be a lonely experience, especially when you're struggling with the attempt to write a great novel and can conjure nothing more than the shortest of short prose.  So Viktor gets a job, writing the obituaries of people who are yet to die for a national newspaper.  Suddenly he has a calling.  The Chief likes what he does.  He's getting paid, and paid well.<br />(It's just a nagging thing - he's doing all of this good work, but nobody is getting to see it, people just aren't dying!)  The nag does, however, give way when Viktor discovers a pile of the obituaries he has written in his Chief's safe, some of which have PROCESSED written on, and some of which have been given DATES . . .  Perhaps the deaths are to begin sooner than expected . . . <br />Death and the Penguin reads for all the world like a Russian Wind-Up Bird Chronicle (Kurkov shares Murakami's fondness for the whimsical response to the generally outlandish).  But that's not all: there are elements of Paul Auster's New York Trilogy, elements of Magnus Mills' The Restraint of Beasts and elements of Wallace and Gromit in The Wrong Trousers (that'll be the penguin, then).  It reads like Bulgakov's The Master and Margarita as sung by Thom Yorke.  <br />It's comedy, but not as we know it. <br />Reading Death and the Penguin is rather like being shaken awake in the middle of the night by a stranger who can't decide whether to tickle you with a cut throat razor or menace you with a feather.	2002-04-09
US	49293614	R1HTPTQGHCH8IA	1560974311	330758373	Don't Call Me Stupid	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Applie Pie and Sour Cabbage	You got Lil Bloody (who is sort of a Hispanic Eddie Munster).  You got Pullapart Boy (it don't take a genius - you touch him, he falls apart).  You got Dead Boy (he has crosses where his eyes are cos they've been - you know? - sown up).  Later you've got X-Ray Spence (he can see THROUGH stuff) and Medusa Girl (who has a kinda crush on X-Ray Spence because he doesn't get turned to stone by her, he can - you know - see RIGHT INSIDE HER).  They fight, they spook people, they walk about and get bored.  It's childhood but - (seriously) not.  (It's The Crazy Gang soundtracked by Sparklehorse.)<br />The art is sort of scratchy (it looks like it's been screen printed from scratched and scored linoleum), full of hard lines and mono washes, but it suits the scratchy and uncomfortable nature of what you see - Chubby bullies the kids, Lil Bloody takes bites out of people, Pullapart Boy - well, he gets pulled apart.  (As, from time to time, do the stories themselves - Weissman does not always get it just right or just so - sometimes you lose interest, a little, or flick ahead to see how long a particular story lasts.)  <br />It's gruesome and creepy and about as wholesome as apple pie stuffed with sour cabbage, but if you like Edward Gorey you'll get a kick out of this.	2002-04-09
US	49293614	R1OVCKFD3ZX2IP	1582341400	86601151	A Cook's Tour: In Search of the Perfect Meal	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Taking It Back	I take it all back.  Everything I said about Kitchen Confidential I take back.  The scrappy edit, the attitude, the skipping over of history, the half-told tales.  I take it all back.  If the success of that book meant that Anthony Bourdain was allowed to write this book - well, I take it all back.<br />This time around, Tony (he's Tony, like Tony Soprano) is travelling the world looking for the perfect meal.  What that entails (or rather, what that entrails) is eating delicacies indigenous to specific locales: he eats a still-beating cobra's heart and drinks snake bile in Vietnam, he devours the intestines of a pig (and the everything else of a pig) in Portugal, he sucks up fish eyes, he eats a whole roasted lamb with the Tuareg (a nomadic desert community) in the Sahara, he dines with Russian gangsters, he even eats vegetarian food (and you know how much Tony hates vegetarians!).  But it's more than that: he eats powdered dried king prawns, chopped toro and fresh chives, he eats tiny coronets of salmon tartare, shallot soup with English cucumber sorbet and dill-weed tuile.  Your mouth aches.  He eats muc huap (which is steamed squid and ginger), ca thut xot ca chu (tuna braised in tomato and cilantro) and mi canh ca (a sweet-and-sour soup of fish, noodles, tomato, onion, cilantro, pineapple and scallion, together with green crabs overstuffed with roe).  You are narcotic with hunger. <br />But there is still more.  You warm to Tony more this time around.  It feels like the pressure is off.  He is no longer performing (or at least not in the same way).  We're old friends now, almost.  What problems there are (he still skips - the book is wildly episodic and anecdotal - one chapter he is here, one chapter he is there - you get no real sense of WHY he goes to the places he does, what decisions are made concerning the passage from A to B) don't seem to matter quite so much because the episodes themselves are just so damn good.	2002-04-05
US	49293614	RIBTSQR0BAWPJ	0440416795	664001530	Harriet the Spy	Books	5	76	80	N	N	Harriet and the Night-Time Sky	When I was ten years old, my teacher was Mrs Stanley.  <br />Mrs Stanley (like all great teachers) refused to teach us what she was told to teach us.  Instead she taught us what she felt we ought to know.  One of the things she felt we ought to know was \\"Harriet the Spy.\\"  <br />Harriet the Spy is Harriet M. Welsh, a little girl who keeps a notebook in which she writes thoughts and observations about her friends and the people around her.  She also has a spy route made up of six or seven houses she passes on the way to and from school each day.  She writes about the houses on her spy route in the notebook each day also.<br />As a kid, you can understand the desire to peer in windows and you can share Harriet's frustration with grown-ups, what they say, what they don't say, all that.  As a kid, you share the sense of isolation visited upon Harriet when her notebook falls out of her bag and is read by all the people in her class.  You also share the good times and the laughs, of which there are many, with her.  When you are a kid, you read \\"Harriet the Spy\\" and it's the story of a little girl whose world falls apart for a little while and then appears to be on the mend.  <br />Years later, I read the book again (sort of glimpsed through half-closed eyes, thinking: this will not be as good as I remembered).  You know what?  It is every bit as good reading the book as a (so-called) adult as it was reading the book as a kid.  Since then I get through \\"Harriet the Spy\\" at least once a year.  It has become a kind of tradition with me.  My little girl is even named after her.  <br />\\"Harriet the Spy\\" is a golden classic.  There are not many books like this.  The five star rule goes out of the window.  Other books you can measure with stars.  Harriet the Spy is like the night-time sky. There are too many stars to count.	2002-02-05
US	49293614	R3D4JU9RK2B4R6	0486295729	810233317	The Double (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Hoisted like a Drunken Hammock	Mr Golyadkin is something of an odd fish.  He hires a carriage to take himself to a party he has not been invited to, only to retreat from an attack of nerves before he is even halfway there.  Following an abortive trip to his doctor (who doesn't appear to like him very much), he goes shopping.  Or at least he attempts to create the impression of shopping (in that he enters several shops, makes a lot of noise and invariably leaves without having made a transaction).  You learn one or two things about Golyadkin pretty quickly.  He appears to have enemies.  Or at least, he refers to his enemies (and thinks about his enemies) quite a lot.  There is also a woman somewhere thereabouts in the shadows who may or may not believe that Golyadkin has wronged her.<br />Way before any double appears on the scene, you understand that (a) Golyadkin is an odd fish and (b) you should not quite trust everything he tells you.  There is something more than a little neurotic about Golyadkin, and that sense of unease only increases as you read.<br />It is like you find yourself in the middle of a crowd (and it is like you have been asleep), and there are people all around.  There are so many people that you cannot see beyond them.  You do not know where you are.  You just know that you are in the midst of people.  Next thing, they have their hands on you.  There are hands on your arms and hands on your legs and feet.  You find yourself hoisted off the ground as the people around you start to swing your body as if they thought you were a hammock.  You have no control over anything.  They swing you backward and forward, each arc hoisting you just that bity higher.  When you think you cannot go any higher, they let you go and you fly, out over the top of the crowd and into the sea.  It isn't until you hit the sea that you realise you cannot swim.<br />That feeling (the tension, the lack of control, the blank incomprehension) sits on your shoulder like an enormous black bird all the time you are reading \\"The Double.\\"<br />Golyadkin sneaks into the party he was not invited to, and finds himself rather rudely ejected.  Wandering through a stormy night (a storm akin to the fog that opens \\"Bleak House\\"), he sees another version of himself and gives chase.  The phantom Golyadkin appears again at work the following morning.  Only it is not a phantom.  It is another man.  Just because the man shares his face and his name, just because the man happens to have been born in the same place.  There is no need to worry.  It is all just coincidence.  (You can hear Golyadkin reassuring himself.)  Only it seems he does have reason to worry.  His job is under threat.  People look at him oddly.  He does not understand what it going on (and we, as readers, share the puzzle with him: why is everybody behaving so oddly?).<br />This is an oddly contemporary nightmare, the story of a man lost in the fog of the modern world.  Whatever your expectations of this book (or for that matter Dostoyevsky), you will be surprised.  Where books like \\"Crime and Punishment\\" or \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" share a direct novelistic lineage with the great novels of Dickens, \\"The Double\\" is more at home in the company of Kafka or Sartre (specifically \\"Nausea\\").  The ground beneath your feet is never sure, the peculiarities you are faced with mount up, the book is like extreme drunkenness.<br />There may well be a great tradition of doppelganger fiction, but I guarantee you: nothing is quite like this.ime you are reading \\"The Double.\\"  <br />Golyadkin sneaks into the party he was not invited to, and finds himself rather rudely ejected.  Wandering through a stormy night (a storm akin to the fog that opens \\"Bleak House\\"), he sees another version of himself and gives chase.  The phantom Golyadkin appears again at work the following morning.  Only it is not a phantom.  It is another man.  Just because the man shares his face and his name, just because the man happens to have been born in the same place.  There is no need to worry.  It is all just coincidence.  (You can hear Golyadkin reassuring himself.)  Only it seems he does have reason to worry.  His job is under threat.  People look at him oddly.  He does not understand what it going on (and we, as readers, share the puzzle with him: why is everybody behaving so oddly?).<br />This is an oddly contemporary nightmare, the story of a man lost in the fog of the modern world.  Whatever your expectations of this book (or for that matter Dostoyevsky), you will be surprised.  Where books like \\"Crime and Punishment\\" or \\"The Brothers Karamazov\\" share a direct novelistic lineage with the great novels of Dickens, \\"The Double\\" is more at home in the company of Kafka or Sartre (specifically \\"Nausea\\").  The ground beneath your feet is never sure, the peculiarities you are faced with mount up, the book is like extreme drunkenness.  <br />There may well be a great tradition of doppelganger fiction, but I guarantee you: nothing is quite like this.	2002-02-05
US	49293614	R3LI7O1I3P8ERU	0064403327	578169710	The Long Secret	Books	3	9	12	N	N	The Messy Secret	First off: \\"The Long Secret\\" is no \\"Harriet the Spy.\\"<br />Don't get me wrong.  It's a good book.  Louise Fitzhugh is a pretty amazing writer and there is no doubt she did some interesting things with the form.  She does children like nobody else.  You have to read her books to understand that.<br />No.  The thing is.  \\"The Long Secret\\" is a little like that period just prior to adolescence.  You're not a kid and you're not a teenager.  You're lodged, briefly, in a place that no-one has found a name for yet.  It's neither a good place or a bad place, either.  It's just a sort of neither-one-thing-or-another place.  \\"The Long Secret\\" is a book that cannot make up its mind quite what it wants to be.<br />\\"The Long Secret\\" is, to all intents and purposes, a sequel to \\"Harriet the Spy\\" (and as such a book I put off reading for YEARS because, let's face it, what can live up to \\"Harriet the Spy\\"? - it's like making a sequel to \\"Casablanca\\" or something).<br />Harriet is spending the summer at the beach with her best friend Beth Ellen.  Somebody is leaving mysterious notes around - notes that act like mean fortune cookies telling people what they are really like, notes that appear to be paraphrasing the Bible (the mean fortune cookie almanac).  Harriet, as you would expect, is on the case.<br />Or she would be, if that was the story that \\"The Long Secret\\" wanted to tell.  As often as not, we find ourselves watching Harriet ride home from Beth Ellen's front porch.  Beth Ellen lives with her rich grandma.  Her mother lives in Europe and can't be fussed raising a child.  Tagging along with Harriet on the beach-version of her spy route, Beth Ellen looks in through the windows of a bar and watches a piano player called Bunny.  She also finds herself caught up with a religious family, in particular a little girl called Jessie Mae (who Beth Ellen maybe likes more than Harriet for a little while, maybe, maybe, she's not sure).  \\"The Long Secret\\" is Beth Ellen's book.  The association with Harriet M Welsh does her a disservice because you long to compare this book with Harriet's book and the two are just fundamentally different fish.<br />Mix the return of Beth Ellen's mother from Europe, Harriet's ruminations on God and faith, a kid called Norman who can't park cars and an old guy called The Preacher who lives in a shack in the woods and you start to feel like: enough already.<br />There are lots of good things here.  The problem is that all of the good things feel like they have emerged from three other slightly more sensible books.	2002-02-05
US	49293614	R17VQTWYNUH8DE	0060972122	973035473	The Mysteries of Pittsburgh	Books	1	33	52	N	N	Counting Backwards	I can't decide whether my reading this AFTER \\"The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay\\" is a good thing or a bad thing.<br />Let me explain.<br />I read Chabon's book of short stories a couple of years ago (\\"Werewolves in their Youth\\"), and it was alright but it didn't inspire me to read more.  It took the advice of a friend to pick up \\"...Kavalier and Clay\\" and I'm glad I did because that book was head and shoulders above most everything else I read last year.  It was so good that it sent me (counting backwards) to \\"Mysteries of Pittsburgh.\\"<br />\\"Mysteries of Pittsburgh\\" is horrible.  It is a horrible book.  Why is it a horrible book?  It is a horrible book because - if you looked up \\"first novel, problems therein\\" in a dictionary THERE WOULD BE A PICTURE OF THIS BOOK. Michael Chabon should not have called this book \\"Mysteries of Pittsburgh.\\"  He should have called it \\"I want to write \\"The Great Gatsby\\" only F Scott Fitzgerald beat me to it.\\"<br />There is a guy called Art whose father is a gangster.  Art befriends a gay guy (also called Arthur) and falls in love with a girl called Phlox (who is straight out of \\"The Breakfast Club\\").  He has a kind of affair with each of them.  There is also a guy called Cleveland who is a rich guy on a fast track to trouble (I'm speaking in cliches because - hell, when the material demands cliches, you've gotta go with it).<br />If I had read \\"Mysteries of Pittsburgh\\" first, I would never have picked up another book by Michael Chabon again (even if the world went crazy over a book by him, I would avoid it).  As it is, it seems to me that Michael Chabon sold his soul to the devil.  The man is the authorial equivalent of Robert Johnson.<br />That is the only way I can imagine that the author responsible for \\"...Kavalier and Clay\\" is also responsible for this piece of appalling self-conscious tripe.	2002-01-25
US	49293614	RJ14YYZKCRDTF	0953327523	319065691	Nalda Said	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Eat These Words	If you're like me, you steer clear of (even minor) celebrity vanity projects.  If David Bowie wants to star in a film, if Bono wants to write a novel, if Billy Bob Thornton wants to release an album of country standards, be my guest, just keep the vanity products away from me.<br />The fact that Stuart David, formerly of Belle and Sebastian and lately of Looper, decided to write a novel did not fill me with joy.  But I have to say, this is the kind of book that makes you eat your words.  <br />\\"Nalda Said\\" is a beautiful dark gem.  The unnamed narrator (kin of Dostoefski's Myshkin and the narrator of John Kennedy Toole's \\"Neon Bible\\") believes there is a jewel in him that the world wants to steal.  His Aunt Nalda told him when he was a kid.  He makes his way through the world (in much the same way that the characters within Magnus Mills' novels do, unchanging, the world happening to them, the world misunderstood by them) believing that there really IS a jewel in him, believing that people want to steal the jewel from him.  <br />There are elements of all sorts of things in here (aside of what I have mentioned, I kept being reminded of Beckett's \\"Murphy\\"), but that is more or less besides the point.  What is apparent, almost straight away, is the quality of the writing, the sense of enchantment and sadness that pervades the genuine talent at work here.  <br />I always hate reviews that say \\"If you only read one book this year etc etc etc . . .\\" I will say this, though: you should make sure you read this, you should make sure that this is ONE of the books you read this year because you will be bowled over.	2002-01-25
US	49293614	R2GRS2UL1WT7LL	0679730249	841433099	Diary of a Mad Old Man	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Thankyou Richard Brautigan	Aside of his novels, I have Richard Brautigan to thank for introducing me to Junichiro Tanizaki (he dedicated &quot;Sombrero Fallout&quot; to Tanizaki).<br />&quot;Diary of a Mad Old Man&quot; was the first book by him I read (figuring that it was very short, less than a hundred pages, and concluding that - even if it was terrible - it would not take me all that long to read).<br />It tells the story of Utsugi (the mad old man of the title) and his relationship with his son's neglected wife, a former dancing girl called Satsuko.  Now, on the surface at least, it appears that Satsuko, tired of the neglect imposed by Utsugi's son, decides to torment (perhaps torment is too strong a word - perhaps I mean tease - perhaps I mean something halfway between teasing and torment) Utsugi, inviting him into her shower, letting him kiss her bare foot.<br />The thing is.  That title.  &quot;Diary of a Mad Old Man.&quot; We are reading the old man's diary and the old man is mad.  Or at least, that is what the title would have us presume.  And yet, the old man (our narrator after all) does not SEEM mad.  Yes, okay, he is consumed by lust, at times, for Satsuko (but what old man wouldn't be?), but madness?  The title leads me to doubt what I read.  I wonder at times if we are inhabiting the dream world of a certain old man.  (It would certainly account for why Satsuko is hot and cold and hot and cold.)<br />Still. There is a cool sensuality to the writing and it is without doubt a good introduction to an old master.	2002-01-25
US	49293614	R22W6MPCCMSG2C	0802132073	823772531	The Neon Bible	Books	4	9	11	N	N	The Country Book	There is no doubt in my mind that John Kennedy Toole was a colossal genius.  &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot; is one of my all-time favourite books (and steadily makes its way up the list each time I re-read it), a rambunctious, comic masterpiece on a par with &quot;Tristram Shandy&quot;.  <br />While &quot;Neon Bible&quot; could not be more different from &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot;, it is for all that something of a treasure.  <br />I think of it like this: &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot; is a city novel (specifically, a New Orleans novel).  &quot;Neon Bible&quot; is a country novel.  The foot has been taken off the accelerator.  The pace has gone slack.  You get time to smell the coffee, look up at the birds in the trees, float downstream on Huck Finn's raft.  All that.  <br />The narrator of &quot;Neon Bible&quot; (like John Kennedy Toole at the time of writing, funnily enough) is a kid.  He watches various lives fall apart.  He attempts to become an adult (he attempts to reconcile himself to adult activity and develop adult understanding), and he fails and he runs away.  <br />In lots of ways, &quot;Neon Bible&quot; is like a bird that settles, to your surprise, on your hand.  Only you are clumsy (you are Lenny from &quot;Of Mice and Men&quot;).  You crush the pretty bird and the end of the book is (quite remarkably, and out of nowhere) the bloody remnants of all those organs and bones crushed between your fingers.  <br />You never see it coming.  The book reads like a painting.  It's so beautiful (and you ask yourself: how did a sixteen year old write this?) you want to touch it, only when you do, the paint gets all over your hands.  Everything is ruined.  By which I mean to say that it isn't until the end that you realise the peace that pervades the book is - like the little bird in your hand - fragile and easily lost.	2002-01-25
US	49293614	R1MIIU4B65P4SB	0805067140	955331877	I Thought My Father Was God: And Other True Tales from NPR's National Story Project	Books	4	7	7	N	N	The Gamut	There's this guy (you don't remember his name).  He picks up a hitch-hiker and they travel together for a week or so, until the hitch-hiker pulls a gun and shoots the driver (our narrator) several times (twice in the head).  The driver does not die, though.  The hitch-hiker argues with the guy.  Asks him why he is not dead.  The driver says, take me to a hospital, I won't say who did it.  The hitch-hiker (eventually) drives him to hospital.  The guy never tells.<br />This is just one story in the middle of the book (just one story among a couple of hundred.  There are a couple of hundred (almost) as good.  Take this one.  Right at the start.  Woman walks down a street. Spots a chicken.  The chicken is walking down the street as if it thinks it was people.  The woman follows the chicken until it arrives at a house, knocks at the door and disappears inside.  <br />In-between these two extremes, you get love and death and slapstick and all manner of humdrum banalities sent that wee bit off-kilter by the presence of something quite remarkable (what Auster would more than likely say was chance). <br />Everybody said I should dip into this book, read it around and alongside other books, but I didn't and I don't recommend that approach.  You should read this like a Paul Auster novel (a novel albeit teeming with narrators and stories and juxtaposition).  Certainly you can feel his editorial presence in the occasionally clipped nature of the sentences.  Not that that is a bad thing.  By no means.  Auster's editorial presence binds this project.  He is the water in the flour.  <br />Sure it's easy to criticise.  The only difference between some of these stories and the stories told to you by loved ones and work colleagues every day is the fact that they were written down and submitted to Paul Auster for consideration.  saying all of that, in these scary days we now live in, there is reassurance here and a sense of something larger than the outline of the shadows we cast.  Life can be remarkable you want to exclaim at times.  It can also be boring and annoying and not what you want it to be.  <br />And yet, for all that, the good far outweighs the bad.  Some people might say this (all of this) is intellectual Reader's Digest.  I say back: life is Reader's Digest.  <br />If you don't know that, you're an ostrich.	2002-01-25
US	49293614	RNRJSPLKB8P72	038549744X	710198060	English Passengers: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Swashbookle	This is another one of those books that I put off reading.  <br />I didn't know all that much about it, but - in-between all of the awards it picked up for being this hugely wonderful novel - I was slightly aware that it was more or less a tale of the high seas.  Now, I don't know about you, but - these days - tales of the high seas do not conjure up an image of Errol Flynn or Burt Lancaster swinging from the mizzen-mast and confronting pirates or insane customs men or what-have-you.  No.  When you hear tell of some tale of the high seas, you think of some retired Colonel drinking port by a roaring fire, blithering on about his time in the campaigns and how - if it wasn't for the likes of him blither blither young whippersnapper etc etc etc<br />And, yes, it is - at least in part - a tale of the high seas, told variously by Captain Illiam Kewley (blaggardly smuggler - ah-haahh, Jim-lad), Reverend Geoffrey Wilson (slightly potty vicar in search of the Garden of Eden in Tasmania), Dr Potter (sinister racial theorist), Timothy Renshaw (wayward son of well-to-do parents and - ahem - servant of Onan and Bacchus) and a host of other Manx sailors.  <br />At the same time, it also recounts - in no small detail - the history of the Aboriginal peoples in Tasmania, as seen through the eyes of various natives and white devils, respectively (the thrust of the book being how these two disparate strains of history clang up against each other).  <br />Now, at first, this can all seem a bit much (it was certainly part of the reason I avoided the book for a while).  When you reach the end of the first chapter and find the action racing back thirty years to events seemingly unrelated to events previously described, you do scratch your head a wee bit.  What is going on, you may ask? This feeling doesn't evaporate straight away either.  For quite some time (a couple of hundred pages really), the action pans back 1857 to 1837, from 1837 to 1857 and so on.  And you know that - yes - something has to come of this, and - yes - the events of 1837 are set in and around Van Diemen's land where - yes - the inhabitants of 1857 are heading, but it doesn't always help: sometimes you want a clear white flag raising saying BEAR WITH ME - HANG IN THERE, KID!  <br />Still: you DO continue reading because each individual narrator is rather entertaining (albeit in some quite radically different ways).  As a reader, you tend to with-hold judgement, allowing the thing to unfold, trying to work out precisely what picture this rather elaborate canvass is going to produce.  <br />I'll tell you: it is worthwhile.  &quot;English Passengers&quot; combines vaulting ambition and old fashioned entertainment in a way I have not chanced across for quite some time - in fact, the last book I read of this calibre was probably Charles Palliser's &quot;The Quincunx&quot; (which is high praise indeed, believe you me).  Funnily enough, similar caveats apply to both books: there is a sturdy Englishness here, and an almost T Coraghessan Boyle-ish love of capers and japes (particularly Boyle's &quot;Water Music&quot;).  The old fashioned entertainment is - by about page three hundred - the thing that propels you through the adventure, but by the climax (and what a climax) it is the vaulting ambition (the fact that resolution can be achieved with such a cast of characters, the thrill of such villainy finding its grisly ends, all that) that stays with you.	2002-01-10
US	49293614	R1I6G0ART0PQEK	1565846273	117066640	Undercurrents: A Novel	Books	1	2	2	N	N	Treading Water	All the time I spent reading &quot;Undercurrents&quot; I struggled with defining for myself the constituent parts of what I would say comprise a literary novel (so unsatisfying was the reading experience, so demanding of a reason for that dissatisfaction).  I would define a literary novel as a novel in which the author is overly concerned with the order of words.  This can be a good thing and a bad thing.  For example, a splendid vocabulary can enhance a good story (it's the vegetables to the meat, as it were). At the same time, it can work to a book's detriment: words can get in the way (I can think of at least two books I've read in the last six months - Ali Smith's &quot;Hotel World&quot;, Don Delillo's &quot;The Body Artist&quot; - that can serve as good examples), such that the book - as an experience to thrill at over the course of page one to whatever - is akin to watching aphids skirt around in circles on the surface of some scummy pond.  You can see what they are up to but there is not much reason to stick around.<br />What I'm saying is: there are good literary novels and bad literary novels; the word &quot;literary&quot; can be perjorative as well as complimentary.  Good literary novels (such as Jonathan Franzen's &quot;The Corrections&quot; and Zadie Smith's &quot;White Teeth&quot;) can dazzle you with a kind of expertise (look how much I know, see what I can make language do) without getting in the way of the fact that - hey, there are people here I'm interested in, you've got my attention due to the fact that you have created an interesting place for me the reader to spend my time.  <br />&quot;Undercurrents&quot; - like &quot;Hotel World&quot;, like &quot;The Body Artist&quot; - is not a good literary novel.  <br />The premise is not bad.  Like Darrieussecq's previous novels (the wonderful, Kafkaesque &quot;Pig Tales&quot;, the squib that was &quot;Phantom Husband&quot;), the story is rooted in the idea of identity: what happens when your life changesforever.  On this occasion, a woman driving her child home from the child's grandmother's house decides not to go home.  She withdraws all of the money from the joint account she shares with her husband and disappears, heading to Spain but holing up in a French seaside town just shy of the Spanish border.  The woman and the child are observed - by the owner of the flat the woman lets, by a lifeguard called Patrick and by a detective hired by her husband to track her and the child down.  The narration - what actual narration there is, in terms of moving the story along from point A to point B - is spread diffusely between the mother, the child, the child's grandmother, the landlord and the detective.  Aside from Patrick, nobody is named.  This feels crucial.  Nameless, these shallow characters skit about, aimlessly reflecting upon the actions of others without - and, again, this is crucial to the great lack at the book's centre - reflecting upon their own actions.  The mother does not wonder - or attempt to explain - why she did what she did. The child does not really miss her father.  The detective appears to be a little remiss, but - so what? Who are these people?  Why should we care? No reason.<br />The grandmother thinks about television programmes and trips taken with the child to observe archeological sites.  The child observes the sea.  The mother spends time - more time than you would believe - thinking about the straps at the back of her summer dress, the only dress she has with her, the dress she washes each and every night to wear again the next day.  There is (or there may be) a minor dalliance with Patrick.  It isn't always clear - metaphor imposes at the point when a reader demands statement of fact (when a reader asks themself: what is happening here?).  Metaphor obscures the knowledge you need to perceive what is going on.  It's frustrating.<br />So: what happens is this: you read and attempt to get beneath the skin of what precisely is happening.  You are deftly deflected, thwarted time after time, in your purpose.  By the last chapter, you want to scream (you want to hold the book under the water, not caring if it can breathe or not, just wanting the whole thing to be rendered somehow, made obsolete, taken from view).  <br />It seems to me, in conclusion, that whatever made &quot;Pig Tales&quot; great, whatever Darrieussecq tapped into to produce that book, lessens with each successive work, like &quot;Pig Tales&quot; was the tolling of a wicked loud bell (clanging: here I am, new talent everybody) and &quot;Phantom Husband&quot; and &quot;Undercurrents&quot; are merely echoes of that first clap, reflections of something that - briefly - seemed interesting and turned out not to be.	2001-12-27
US	49293614	RGJOEKNMR962F	0349101752	676732624	Wonderland Avenue (Abacus Books)	Books	1	11	41	N	N	Deadbeat Loser Rich Kid Hanger On	I think I must be a glutton for punishment.<br />Let me explain: I knew, for instance, that I would not enjoy the Howard Marks' book.  Did that stop me reading it?  No.  Did I find each of my expectations met (in terms of it being the story of a public schoolboy bumbling through life in a public schoolboy, old boy's network of chums all at variance with the law, oh me oh my kind of way)?  Yes.  Did it appear when cool was mainstream (when &quot;Trainspotting&quot;-mania was at its height and everybody was cool, baby)? Yes.  Was Howards Marks and &quot;Trainspotting&quot; ever cool? Only to people unfamiliar with Burroughs or Kelman or Sabbag.<br />&quot;Wonderland Avenue&quot; is that all over.  Oh me oh my, I was rich, I took drugs, I took more drugs than I should have done, I hung out with the Doors, I nearly died from all the drugs I took, I learned my lesson, I love life.  Remove the acquaintance with the Doors (themselves the single most over-rated band in the history of over-rated bands) from the equation and what you have here is: rich kid does bad. I mean, who cares? <br />Maybe we live in a day and age now when we are so overwhelmed with information, when it is no longer possible for celebrities to maintain a Joan Crawford style aura of mystery, that self-abuse stories need to plumb greater depths.  I don't know.  I just know that - pretty much from the off - I loathed and detested everything about this book.  &quot;Wonderland Avenue&quot; is &quot;The Doors of Perception&quot; rewritten by Keanu Reeves (except at least Keanu Reeves has done SOMETHING worthwhile in his life).  <br />This is a book that should have been called Deadbeat Loser Rich Kid Hanger On.	2001-12-11
US	49293614	RZY9IVTWE6GKG	1560974273	582435172	Ghost World	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Solace for the Drunken Man	I'd been up almost two days solid, drinking and shouting and carrying on.  My eyes were red, my throat hurt and I was tired, tired so I ached in my bones (tired so my aura ached - the very air around me sensitive to pain, the very air around me hurting too).  I just couldn't face the book I was reading on the train home.  It wasn't the book's fault (I was reading &quot;True Tales of American Life&quot;, edited by Paul Auster), I was loving the book, I just couldn't face the thought of words on a page.  At the same time, however, I realised that if I didn't have something to occupy myself with I would start to analyse the various aches and pains and arrive at the conclusion that I needed to be ill, and I didn't want to be ill.  <br />Which is where &quot;Ghost World&quot; comes in.  Lots of people had told me they didn't like it.  I know lots of people who have seen the film and loved it, loved it enough to seek out the graphic novel, only for the graphic novel to disappoint them.  So I had various echoes of other people's opinions wobbling around my drunken head, but it didn't stop me: I just thought - serendipity: me and &quot;Ghost World&quot; were meant for each other at this particular time. <br />And I was right.<br />&quot;Ghost World&quot; is a great book.  Not just a great graphic novel (because people use those words as if there is something bad about graphic novels: people hold up graphic novels the way that eighteenth century travellers held up tribal masks in their drawing rooms over tea - oh look, how marvellous, a graphic novel), a great book, a great piece of literature (if that makes you feel better).  It made me laugh on a day when the very thought of laughter upset me like bad news.  &quot;Ghost World&quot; is Harriet (the Spy) ten years on (and, as everybody - should - know, &quot;Harriet the Spy&quot; is one of the greatest books ever written, a monument to genius, and any book that can be whispered in the same breath is deserving of the highestpraise).  <br />What more can a tired man say but read &quot;Ghost World&quot; (or: read &quot;Harriet the Spy&quot; if you have already read &quot;Ghost World&quot;, or read both &quot;Ghost World&quot; and &quot;Harriet the Spy&quot; if you've read neither; or: read &quot;Ghost World&quot; and &quot;Harriet the Spy&quot; if you've already read them both - you know that your life will be richer from another visit to either.)	2001-12-10
US	49293614	R33SBCEBHDEEW	0553565540	837058873	The Innocent (Movie Tie in)	Books	4	16	18	N	N	Persuasion Enough	The story first (because McEwan - unlike Amis and Rushdie and even Barnes - is first and foremost a storyteller; his great skill with words ably assists that task but it never gets in the way).  <br />Berlin. A short time after the second world war.  Leonard Marnham (an Englishman away from home - his mother, his father - for the first time in his short life) is our narrator.  He is part of a project to dig a tunnel from what is termed American soil through to what is termed Russian soil, the intention being to place various taps on the Russian communications systems.  He also has to contend with the rivalry that develops between English and US officers.  Alongside all of which, he meets and falls in love with a German girl called Maria.  <br />The project - Project Gold - was in fact a reality.  It occurred, in much the same way recounted in the book. Leonard and Maria are fictions.  The fact and the fictions weave a merry dance, but that is beside the point.  <br />What is the point - and the point that should encourage you to read (and not just read this - read pretty much everything by Ian McEwan, bar &quot;Amsterdam&quot; which is weak) - is the skill which he brings to bear in creating images that remain with you long after you finish reading.  Time after time (the balloon chase in &quot;Enduring Love&quot;, the throat cutting in &quot;The Comfort of Strangers&quot;, the soldiers brain seeping from beneath poorly fixed bandages in &quot;Atonement&quot;, the dismemberment of a corpse here, in &quot;The Innocent&quot;) you are left with a clutch of significant, striking, visceral images (images that often remain after other books rob you of a clear memory of the twists and turns of the plot).  <br />What is also interesting (in the light of the success of &quot;Atonement&quot;, specifically) are the number of methods McEwan employs more than once, in different books (the aforesaid grotesque dismemberment and its &quot;Atonement&quot; echo with the soldier's brains, the way Leonard returns to the scene of the crime, as Briony returns to the scene of the crime in &quot;Atonement&quot;, that kind of thing).<br />All of which is by the by.  What is important, at the end, is this: aside from writing great books, with great stories, containing great writing, McEwan somehow manages to both transport you and leave you where you were.  You are transported, compelled, forced to read on (even when that does not seem the wisest course - dismemberment, again).  At the same time, you sit back there, in your seat, wherever you are, thinking to yourself: this guy is good. You italicise the &quot;good&quot; in your head. This guy is &quot;good&quot;. Drawn out over three or four syllables. <br />&quot;The Innocent&quot; is as good as the other novels (and better than the short stories, which always struck me as exercises), and that should be persuasion enough.	2001-10-27
US	49293614	R1C37YAERWACJV	0679463046	79158641	Ghostwritten: A Novel	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Look Ma, No Hands	Most books, you relax into.  <br />You pick something up, you read the first ten, twenty, thirty (hell, maybe a hundred) pages, and you know pretty much where you are.  When you relax into a book, it isn't that you switch on the automatic pilot, more that you have (a) decided whether or not you like what you are reading and (b) invested a certain amount (of intelligence or time or whatever) in wanting to find out what happens between now and the end of the thing.  <br />This is true for movies too.  At some point, you relax into it.  <br />This is not true for &quot;Ghostwritten.&quot;  <br />&quot;Ghostwritten&quot; is like that film with Guy Pierce.  &quot;Memento.&quot; You see it? It's about a guy who has a problem with his memory, such that he can only remember the last ten minutes.  You start watching the film at the very end and - as the film progresses - you watch the events leading up to the end in ten minute chunks.  Which makes for something of an unusual cinematic experience.  You don't get to relax into the characters.  You watch the whole film as if it was the first ten minutes.  You construct everything afresh each time the film jumps back ten minutes.  <br />&quot;Ghostwritten&quot; is &quot;Memento&quot; to the power of ten (because reading a book - for the most part - takes more time than watching a movie).<br />What you get is this:  ten chapters (nine of which are of roughly equal size, and nine of which involve different characters) about people in the world set in different geographical locations (ranging from Tokyo and Okinawa to Mongolia, Petersburg and London).  Certain events - such as the death of a lawyer in Hong Kong - have ramifications elsewhere, in other chapters and amongst other character's lives.  <br />However - importantly - the ramifications do not give the book cohesion.  Certain characters mutter darkly about cause and effect (and you can't help but be reminded of the butterfly wing / earthquake chestnut), but these things arefor the most part just that: muttering.  The book lacks cohesion.  <br />That isn't a disaster, because the book contains terrific writing, terrific.  It is a lot of fun.  It's just that, in my humble, it is better to start &quot;Ghostwritten&quot; expecting a series of loosely conected short stories, than it is to start it expecting a novel. Because a novel should satisfy some deep part of the reader intellectually (and &quot;Ghostwritten&quot; feels, at least in part, like an intellectual wearing his erudition on his sleeve - look ma, no hands, look ma, no feet - all that).  <br />To conclude: David Mitchell is bright (bright like David Foster Wallace is bright) BUT - unlike DFW - the erudition does not get in the way of the writing.  I would argue that this is not a novel.  But I would also argue that this is great writing.  A great debut (short story collection).	2001-10-08
US	49293614	R11O37H7CN7HCW	067946333X	477028395	Fury: A Novel	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Post card from America	I have read this book twice now and I just cannot seem to make my mind up.  <br />First time through, my little girl was teething so I read as and when I could and found &quot;Fury&quot; enthralling.  Brain food.  Rushdie writes like Kubrick films.  There seems to be a whole lot going on behind what you have in front of you. <br />In terms of what you have in front of you.  <br />Professor Malik Solanka.  I give that a sentence in its own right, because that - he - is what the book is about.  There is more than likely a certain amount of intended confusion between Solanka and Rushdie but - either way - the majority of the book resides in the professor's head.  What we know we know through him.  Professor Malik - Solly - left his wife and young child in England (because - well, whole host of reasons but - primarily - he found himself standing over his wife and child in the dead of night wielding a knife and - didn't know how or why or what he could and would do).  The problem - whatever the problem is - does not evaporate upon arrival in New York.  He is in the grip of a fury (such that he is asked to leave restaurants after bursting into torrents of expletives that he is not aware of).  The fury does not always leave post-it notes explaining what Solly got up to in its grip.  Hence, when a serial killer starts bashing in the heads of debutantes, Solly wonders if the deaths are down to him.  Mix in the fact that Solly is something of a celebrity - having created a doll called Little Brain (in fact, mix in the idea of dolls, mix in the history of dolls, mix in all the doll shaped ingredients you can find) - and add a pinch of civil strife from overseas and you have - <br />Well. What do you have? You don't have a novel, as such. Not really.  Even first time, through, it feels more like reportage than fiction: Salman Rushdie's thoughts on New York.  Everything else feels incidental (oh how kind: he created characters for us - even if those characters appear to be vaguebiographical sketches).  And, first time through, that is okay (aside from the mess that is the end, but we'll get to that).  I would want to know what Rushdie thinks about New York, and by extension, America.<br />Second time through, you get more critical.  The fact that this reads like an episode within an oevre (as if Rushdie no longer has to write novels, he can now dash off a postcard recounting his latest views on the world, the way a - important this - pop star might:  this is novel as album) starts to gall. Also, the fact that Rushdie is a kind of geographic chameleon (in that, Rushdie's books are always about cities - cities are always the most important characters in his novels - Bombay, London - Rushdie is like Joyce and Dickens in that sense - the city is all) gets to be too much.  Residing in New York brings out the Philip Roth in Rushdie.  It is all very well Philip Roth being Philip Roth.  It does not ring true when Rushdie starts in on the fraternity of academia residing in New York.  The tone is all wrong.  <br />The more you think about it, the less enjoyable &quot;Fury&quot; becomes (which is odd, considering that, in the past, one of the great joys of Rushdie's novels were that they improved the more you thought about them).  What you have is part of an ongoing episode.  Except, where life continues, books end.  This means that Rushdie has to end the novel.  Only there is not a logical end to a book about the internal life of a professor (at least not here). <br />So what you get is &quot;Police Academy.&quot; <br />You remember the &quot;Police Academy&quot; films, right?  A bunch of characters, each with their amusing quirks, are paraded for about an hour.  At which point, (whoever is responsible) realises that the bunch of characters with amusing quirks have to DO something to bring everything to a close.  Hence, a clumsy device (a riot, a jailbreak, whatever) is crowbarred into the film, allowing each of the quirky characters to shine and ending everything if not neatly then - at least it is over.  The exact same thing applies here.  Having resided within the mind of an intellectual for 233 pages, we suddenly find ourselves among terrorists in a war zone.  Oh-kay.<br />Oh-kay.<br />It's a real dead piano key, and the more you think about it the worse it gets.	2001-10-08
US	49293614	RMEXGFZ6R57VE	0375506276	990748107	The Fourth Hand	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Something &amp; Nothing	John Irving can always be relied upon to deliver the goods.  You can guarantee that he won't deliver the goods in quite the way you would expect (where, after all, would be the fun in that?), but you can - relatively early on - rest easy in the knowledge that, whatever happens, you will not be disappointed.  All of which means that you can start and read John Irving novels without the slight worry that greets the beginning of any new novel (will I like it? will I hate it? will it thrill? will it stink?).  You can relax into a John Irving book, the way you relax into a warm bath.  <br />&quot;The Fourth Hand&quot; is both unlike and similar to every John Irving novel.  <br />You notice the width, first. This is not quite as large as typical John Irving fare.  <br />Secondly, the information you get on the inside cover is - well, a little oblique.  There are no names for one thing.  Imagine Charles Dickens hiding his characters' names away.  This continues - for a while - inside, when you start.  You know this is a story about a man - a reporter - who has his hand bitten off, but who is the man? What is his name? This may seem like a terrifically slight thing (you learn, quickly enough, that the reporter's name is Patrick Wallingford), but it isn't: it is like the piano key that sounds on the soundtrack to the best haunted house movie you've ever seen. It is meant to inform you of - something. Just, unlike the piano key, it is not immediately clear what that something is.  <br />The inside cover copy informs you that Patrick Wallingford loses his hand while on assignment in India.   You also learn, briefly, about a hand surgeon who is seduced by his house-keeper and a married woman in Wisconsin who wants to donate her husband's hand to Patrick Wallingford - even though her husband is still alive.  Curiouser and curiouser, as Alice might say.<br />What you find, as you read about Patrick and Dr Zajac (the hand surgeon) and Mrs Claus (the married woman), is more curiousstill: none of these people are particularly likeable.  Patrick is a shallow, incompetant womaniser.  The office he works out of is populated by gossiping furies, one of whom - Mary Shanahan - attaches herself to Patrick, initially out of fondness and then - curiouser etc etc - out of something closely resembling hatred.  Mrs Claus convinces her husband to sign away his hand (and what would Dr Freud make of that?), and spends the better part of this novel struggling against the way Patrick wants to identify with her (I am not this person, I am not that person, I am not the other person). Dr Zajac struggles to win his son's love following a messy divorce. His ex-wife poisons the child's mind against his father.  And yet, you can't help but feel some sympathy for the ex-wife (as you can't help but feel some sympathy for Patrick Wallingford's wife) - even though nobody truly warrants sympathy.<br />And that, curiousest of all, is the surprise of this particular Irving novel.  There is nobody to like here.  There is no bruised flawed everyperson. There are only bruises and flaws. And yet, where with other books that would stop me reading (would make me think: why do I want to know any more about this clutch of unpleasant people?), here I carried on.  In my head, I'm thinking: okay, fair enough, a bunch of unpleasant people, okay . . . Not so much wanting redemption (thinking redemption would more than likely disappoint), as a reason for having read about unpleasant people. And there are reasons (there is great beauty to be had in midnight swims, for example, towards the end of the novel) to read.  <br />Afterwards, there are still lingering doubts (I never felt any closer to Mrs Claus, never felt I understood why she was so quick to offer her husband's hand), and - it strikes me now, thinking about it - &quot;The Fourth Hand&quot; reads like something of an exercise (albeit a hugely entertaining exercise).  Seems like John Irving has taken a look at what he does (bruised, flawed central character to identify with - check - overpacked holiday suitcase packed full of gossipy digressions - check - loveable oddball eccentrics, there to provide Shakespearean surcease at moments of crisis - check), and - for want of a better word - tinkered with that.  Which tinkers somewhat with expectation (and not wholly in a good way either). <br />It is like you have taken your car into a mechanic who fixed everything that needed fixing, but - as you drive away - you can't help but think you hear a noise (you're not sure you hear a noise, but you THINK you did).  Could be nothing. Could be something.  As such, it is a case of wait and see.  Same with this book (and the NEXT book).  Could be something. Could be nothing.	2001-09-09
US	49293614	R2SCHL9RTR0BTJ	1582341656	629480007	All Families Are Psychotic: A Novel	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Thin Ice	Some authors, they get seven or eight books into their career, you know what to expect. I'm not saying that career novelists lack the power of surprise (because, for the most part, the opposite is more often than not the case), more that - as an established author with a firm reputation - they know how to separate the wheat from the chaff.  <br />And yet and yet and yet: when you look back over Douglas Coupland's history, it is - for want of a better phrase - somewhat chequered. On the one side, you have absolutely five star reads (like &quot;Life After God&quot; and &quot;Miss Wyoming&quot; - both of which you should read, if you haven't already, purely for the fact that they get you gazing out of the window full of the joys of Spring).  On the other hand, you have bomb crater stinkers (like the adolescent &quot;Shampoo Planet&quot; and the shocking &quot;Girlfriend in a Coma&quot;).  As if that isn't enough, there are also times when he has a foot in each camp (sorry but: &quot;Generation X&quot; and &quot;Microserfs&quot; - both of them interesting but lacking that essential oomph). <br />&quot;All Families are Psychotic&quot;, peculiarly, lends itself to all three camps. It's very good, very bad and occasionally alright. <br />Let's start at the start.  I don't know about you, but when I go to visit my folks it is like plunging my head into an ice cold bath and learning to breathe underwater for however long the visit lasts. My family requires gills. Or evolution. This is in part due to the volume and speed with which questions and stories (often stories without beginning, middle, end or focus) are fired at me, over me, passed me and through me.  <br />The first few chapters of &quot;All Families are Psychotic&quot; are EXACTLY like that. Over the space of three maybe four chapters there is an insane stampede of detail concerning (deep breath): Janet (mom), her ex-husband Ted, their children Wade, Bryan and Sarah, and their children's partners (Beth, Shw - don'task - and Howie, respectively).  <br />It's a little bewildering (you read like a suicide who has just jumped from the ledge of this 356-storey building, glimpsing details - and imagined details - through the windows that increasingly accelerate by).<br />Very quickly (ie in the first ten or twenty pages), you learn: Janet and Wade are suffering from HIV (due to the fact that a bullet - fired by Janet's ex-husband Ted - passed through infected Wade and into Janet), Bryan is suicidal, Shw is pregnant but planning to sell her baby, Sarah is an astronaut making final preparations to leave the Earth and Howie is cheating on Sarah with the wife of another astronaut.<br />This, in turn, helps you to realise one simple thing:  this is soap opera. <br />Which is peculiar. Douglas Coupland's last novel was a book about a soap star (&quot;Miss Wyoming&quot;) written straight. The characters were real. They had depth. You believed in them. (All corny things, I know, but true about that book.) Not so this book. This is bollywood colour, like that movie &quot;Tears of a Black Tiger.&quot; The contrast turned up to eleven. (And yet still, at one point a character says: &quot;This isn't a soap opera, it's real life . . .&quot; Oh yeah?) <br />What you come to realise is, whenever Douglas Coupland attempts to critique contemporary mores, the role of the straight man suits him more than the joker (which is why a book about a soap star - the aforesaid &quot;Miss Wyoming&quot; - works infinitely better than a book about the end of the world - the lamentable &quot;Girlfriend in a Coma&quot;): when he concentrates on the family, he is fine; when he grafts on sub plots involving letter smuggling and - oh hokey-hokey-hokey - faith healing, the ice becomes noticably thinner. <br />Worse still, the annoying niggles bring out the pedant in me: I start to get worked up when he uses phrases like &quot;the oval-shaped bed&quot;. That would just be &quot;oval&quot; then. Because you wouldn't say it was a red-coloured bed if you were asked. You would say the bed was red. Or the bed was oval. If you see what I mean. <br />Which all sounds worse than it is. The book is actually, overall, very good. You'll enjoy it. A lot. You just probably won't LOVE it. And that's what we demand. We want books to love. We want books to argue about and defend and worship and pass on to other people, promising them the world on  a plate (or the world between two covers at any rate). Life is too short for books that are simply alright, too short for books that are simply good (especially when you know the author is capable of producing that mysterious x-factor that compels you to rush out amd sing like a freed cage bird to anybody who will listen).	2001-09-03
US	49293614	R30B9DADF755D2	1582341656	629480007	All Families Are Psychotic: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Thin Ice	Some authors, they get seven or eight books into their career, you know what to expect. I'm not saying that career novelists lack the power of surprise (because, for the most part, the opposite is more often than not the case), more that - as an established author with a firm reputation - they know how to separate the wheat from the chaff. <br />And yet and yet and yet: when you look back over Douglas Coupland's history, it is - for want of a better phrase - somewhat chequered. On the one side, you have absolutely five star reads (like &quot;Life After God&quot; and &quot;Miss Wyoming&quot; - both of which you should read, if you haven't already, purely for the fact that they get you gazing out of the window full of the joys of Spring). On the other hand, you have bomb crater stinkers (like the adolescent &quot;Shampoo Planet&quot; and the shocking &quot;Girlfriend in a Coma&quot;). As if that isn't enough, there are also times when he has a foot in each camp (sorry but: &quot;Generation X&quot; and &quot;Microserfs&quot; - both of them interesting but lacking that essential oomph). <br />&quot;All Families are Psychotic&quot;, peculiarly, lends itself to all three camps. It's very good, very bad and occasionally alright. <br />Let's start at the start. I don't know about you, but when I go to visit my folks it is like plunging my head into an ice cold bath and learning to breathe underwater for however long the visit lasts. My family requires gills. Or evolution. This is in part due to the volume and speed with which questions and stories (often stories without beginning, middle, end or focus) are fired at me, over me, passed me and through me. <br />The first few chapters of &quot;All Families are Psychotic&quot; are EXACTLY like that. Over the space of three maybe four chapters there is an insane stampede of detail concerning (deep breath): Janet (mom), her ex-husband Ted, their children Wade, Bryan and Sarah, and their children's partners (Beth, Shw - don't ask- and Howie, respectively). <br />It's a little bewildering (you read like a suicide who has just jumped from the ledge of this 356-storey building, glimpsing details - and imagined details - through the windows that increasingly accelerate by).<br />Very quickly (ie in the first ten or twenty pages), you learn: Janet and Wade are suffering from HIV (due to the fact that a bullet - fired by Janet's ex-husband Ted - passed through infected Wade and into Janet), Bryan is suicidal, Shw is pregnant but planning to sell her baby, Sarah is an astronaut making final preparations to leave the Earth and Howie is cheating on Sarah with the wife of another astronaut.<br />This, in turn, helps you to realise one simple thing: this is soap opera. <br />Which is peculiar. Douglas Coupland's last novel was a book about a soap star (&quot;Miss Wyoming&quot;) written straight. The characters were real. They had depth. You believed in them. (All corny things, I know, but true about that book.) Not so this book. This is bollywood colour, like that movie &quot;Tears of a Black Tiger.&quot; The contrast turned up to eleven. (And yet still, at one point a character says: &quot;This isn't a soap opera, it's real life . . .&quot; Oh yeah?) <br />What you come to realise is, whenever Douglas Coupland attempts to critique contemporary mores, the role of the straight man suits him more than the joker (which is why a book about a soap star - the aforesaid &quot;Miss Wyoming&quot; - works infinitely better than a book about the end of the world - the lamentable &quot;Girlfriend in a Coma&quot;): when he concentrates on the family, he is fine; when he grafts on sub plots involving letter smuggling and - oh hokey-hokey-hokey - faith healing, the ice becomes noticably thinner. Worse still, the annoying niggles bring out the pedant in me: I start to get worked up when he uses phrases like &quot;the oval-shaped bed&quot;. That would just be &quot;oval&quot; then. Because you wouldn't say it was a red-coloured bed if you were asked. You would say the bed was red. Or the bed was oval. If you see what I mean. <br />Which all sounds worse than it is. The book is actually, overall, very good. You'll enjoy it. A lot. You just probably won't LOVE it. And that's what we demand. We want books to love. We want books to argue about and defend and worship and pass on to other people, promising them the world on a plate (or the world between two covers at any rate). Life is too short for books that are simply alright, too short for books that are simply good (especially when you know the author is capable of producing that mysterious x-factor that compels you to rush out and sing like a freed cage bird to anybody who will listen).	2001-09-03
US	49293614	RI2UGTXWHBPAK	0375410848	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang	Books	3	46	56	N	N	Over the fence	There is the short version and the long version.<br />The short version goes like this: if you are interested in Ned Kelly OR enjoyed either Roddy Doyle's &quot;A Star Called Henry&quot; or Russell Bank's &quot;Cloudsplitter&quot; (without knowing all that much about Irish or American history, respectively), you will like Peter Carey's &quot;True History of the Kelly Gang&quot;. <br />The long version begins by taking both Roddy Doyle and Russell Banks to task, somewhat, suggesting that each of those novels uses history as a crutch: &quot;A Star Called Henry&quot; relies on a working knowledge of Irish history (particularly, &quot;the troubles&quot;); &quot;Cloudsplitter&quot; demands a similar expertise in regard to the American Civil War (and, furthermore, it helps - when reading &quot;Cloudsplitter&quot; - to have a definite opinion on John Brown). <br />All of which goes double for Peter Carey's book. This is a memoir (of sort) narrated by Ned Kelly, Australian outlaw cum folk hero. In lots of ways, an Australian John Brown.  He tells you about his family (his wayward father, his struggling mother, his brothers and sisters). He tells you about his upbringing against a context of colonial misrule. He explains how the events that came about, came about, and tries to justify the actions against the historical perception. All very interesting up to a point. <br />BUT (and this is a collossal, fifty-foot high but): I couldn't help but be reminded of something a friend said to me recently. &quot;Some books,&quot; my friend said, &quot;you are INSIDE - it isn't like you're reading, it is like you're there. Some books, you enjoy less. You can APPRECIATE them, without quite being inside them. In other words, you can see why people like them, without quite getting worked up yourself. After that, what you're left with is books you just downright don't enjoy, for whatever reason - those are books that sit in your neighbour's garden, on the other side of the fence from you.&quot;<br />&quot;True History of the Kelly Gang&quot; starts out as a book you appreciate. Peter Carey is a writer's writer. You have a sly old chuckle at the great skill involved in constructing sentences that trail on and on, suggesting that (a) Ned Kelly is not a schooled man (b) Ned Kelly is not an ignorant man.  This is what the construction of sentences alone suggests. There is an immediate duality at play. All credit to the author for that. It is all very clever.  <br />However, over the course of the novel, it is that self-same erudition and skill that stops you, the reader, getting inside. This is not a book to enjoy. This is a book to occasionally marvel at. As with any marvel you are expected to stop and stare and coo and say aah at for any length of time, however, you eventually get tired. Your jaw aches from all that smiling. You start to get a bit tired of marvels. The books stops being a book you appreciate (roundabout the time Ned starts outlawing for real, when the book seems to become an endless round of police chasing outlaws, outlaws chasing police) and starts to be a book that annoys. <br />You sit there (scowling, in my case) as the book climbs up the fence and into your neighbour's garden. You keep checking how many pages you still have to read as the book lounges there on a towel, looking for all the world like the Cheshire Cat after a meal of cream.  This is a book that reads like it is very pleased with itself, thankyou very much. <br />Which kind of puts me off somewhat.	2001-09-03
US	49293614	R3C4WJISLGS720	0679754059	922717492	The Winshaw Legacy: or, What a Carve Up!	Books	5	13	14	N	N	What a corker	This is one of those books that I put off reading for years, despite the fact that countless people recommended it. The number of times I found myself cornered at parties by the kinds of people who really rate &quot;Birdsong&quot; or &quot;Captain Corelli's Mandolin&quot; was enough to deter me. On top of that, I hated the title. I thought it was a terrible title for a book (and sometimes that is enough). <br />When I finally did decide to give the thing a go, it was for the most shallow reason conceivable: I read an interview in which Thom Yorke admitted that &quot;What a Carve Up!&quot; was a huge influence on &quot;The Bends&quot;. Now, it isn't like I'm the world's biggest Radiohead fan or anything, but I have to admit that I was intrigued to learn the relationship between the book and the CD (and having read the book, I can see what inspired Thom Yorke). <br />Loathe as I am to admit it (for reasons that are not even completely clear to myself), &quot;What a Carve Up!&quot; is a barnstormer: it's like an enormous brass band, made up of twenty or thirty thousand people, making its way through the bendy curvy streets of some polite English village in the thundering rain. Which may seem like a strange analogy, but I'll explain: the enormous brass band because it is funny (funny like that old Ealing movie, &quot;Kind Hearts and Coronets&quot; - in fact, there is the best recommendation - if you like that movie, read this book); the bendy curvy streets of the village, because there is a pervasive Englishness at work here, the same Englishness that lurks at the heart of Julian Barnes' best novels, the same Englishness that lurks at the heart of AS Byatt's &quot;Possession&quot;; and the thundering rain? Well. The thundering rain would be the stark political context the book expands within: the abuse of the upper classes, the corruption that became emblematic in English politics in the 1980s (manifest in the talk of insider trading, arms dealing, the old school tie, Miners' Strikes, call it what you will). <br />Taken together, this means that Jonathan Coe has fashioned the kind of novel you don't read all that often (proof positive that the novel is alive and well and running three marathons a week).	2001-09-03
US	49293614	R34INW4TYFWHQS	0060194170	489274794	About the Author	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Some Candy Talking	You've got this black box, right, and the box is so black that it doesn't reflect light - it ABSORBS it. Your fingers find the catch (because the box has a catch like a musical box) and you lift the lid to see a tray of chocolates (the last thing you were expecting to see). Your reaction is funny. Normally, when presented with a box of chocolates, you look for the slip of paper telling you what is what. On this occasion, you don't: you reach straight for the blood-black heart (shaped like the organ, not the Valentine's card) in the centre of the tray. It's in your fingers. It's in your mouth.  You never tasted chocolate quite like this. It is the perfect chocolate. Rich and - almost European-ly dark. As you chew (because you do chew - this is sublime - you would not want to just crunch and swallow - you want to savour this), you wonder who could design such a perfect confection.<br />I'm here to tell you who: John Colapinto.<br />It goes a little like this. There's a guy who has always wanted to be a writer (who has always thought of himself - inside - as a writer).  It's just that life (in the form of women and drinking and going out) gets in the way of actually filling the old page with words.  It won't always be like this, he tells himself. He will write. He just needs to get some life experience first. That is what he tells himself. Until his room mate goes ahead and writes the novel he always intended to write himself.  Not only that. The hero of his room mate's novel. Well. It's him. His room mate has written a novel about HIM. <br />At which point, you ask yourself as series of (quickly answered) questions: what if that room mate were to accidentally die? What if a certain person assumed the author's identity and went on to reap the success and financial embellishments he had always dreamed about? What if the guy got everything he had always wanted, only to find out that somebody else knew his room mate was writing a novel about him . . . ?<br />The dark confection in the centre of the box gets melted down and added to the kind of chilli only insane people would eat.  You eat it all down after that. You eat it all down, but you eat it fast (like you devour all good thrillers fast, because the story keeps the pages turning): you know afterwards you'll regret it (because you cannot help but wonder if this is glittering eye candy, story over character, all that), but you don't stop and you can't help yourself. You're compelled to find out what happens next. It's a brilliant mechanical invention. You thrill at how it has all been put together.  <br />You know that the chocolate and the chilli is bad for you, but you just can't help yourself.	2001-09-03
US	49293614	R1Y8HMFDQDG1Q0	0140434976	365726027	Our Mutual Friend (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The best of books, the darkest of books	....<br />...of all the mighty works that his pen produced, hard pressed as I am to choose, I would say - if forced - that \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" is my favourite. Not by much, admittedly (\\"Bleak House\\", \\"Little Dorrit\\" and \\"Dombey and Son\\" will keep knocking at that door), but they haven't managed to barge into the pride of place reserved for \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" - the seat closest to the fire, as it were - just yet.<br />The reason \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" is my favourite Dickens? Well. It is just so dark. (You may say that \\"The Mystery of Edwin Drood\\" is a darker work, and you may be right, but that is not a novel - that is a murder glimpsed through the window of a passing train - you don't know if it is serious or jest, and you will never ever find out.) This book - \\"Our Mutual Friend\\" - is a veritable nest of vipers. Not only that. The vipers are black. The vipers are made of night. Which isn't unusual. Dickens (like Milton) knew how to paint a good villain. Just that - whereas elsewhere, there is one singular villain (Bill Sykes, or Quilp say) - here there are many villains, each as dark as the other, each as particular and distinct a kind of nightmare as can be imagined. You have the corruption of the conniving Lammles, the crusty, flaky, stinginess of Silas Wegg, and the waterlogged, badmouthing of underhanded Rogue Riderhood. You have the insane obsessive love of Bradley Headstone. The two-faced usurer Fascination Fledgeby. You have  - peculiarly this, but true all the same - the blackness of the river. The river is a villain in \\"Our Mutual Friend\\". The river is an enemy to truth. It swallows up stories as equally as it swallows up the bodies of the drowned. Like \\"Heart of Darkness\\", the river and its denizens (the houses that line the dirty shoreline, the population of those houses) poison everything, and the poison seeps out of the lowest house and into the highest. The river is responsible - at least in part - for the story about which everything else revolves: the Harmon murder.<br />Alongside the darkness (and elaborated within the pages of Peter Ackroyd's excellent biography \\"Dickens\\"), you have a definitely out-of-the-ordinary oddness to proceedings. This is an odd book. Dickens always provided comic relief. With a book this dark, you would think the comic relief to be all the more comic, but this is not the case. What once was comic is now slightly deranged. The relationship between Bella Wilfer and her father is like something out of a David Lynch movie. The character of Mr Venus, too. Is he a taxidermist? What is that fascination with bottled dead things? And bones?  You have the young miss, the friend of Bella Wilfer, Jenny Wren, deformed maker of doll dresses. She is comic but, somehow, laughing at a child so weary from her corrupt bones as to look like an old old woman is wrong.<br />As such, the whole is a puzzle. Second time through, it isn't any easier. But that - essentially, dissatisfaction, or ambiguity - makes for a tremendously satisfying reading. Yes, everything is resolved at the end for better or ill, but still: there is a dark, pitiless buzzing (like a wasp trapped in your stove pipe hat) that remains with you long after you have finished the book and read others.the Harmon murder.<br />Alongside the darkness (and elaborated within the pages of Peter Ackroyd's excellent biography \\"Dickens\\"), you have a definitely out-of-the-ordinary oddness to proceedings. This is an odd book. Dickens always provided comic relief. With a book this dark, you would think the comic relief to be all the more comic, but this is not the case. What once was comic is now slightly deranged. The relationship between Bella Wilfer and her father is like something out of a David Lynch movie. The character of Mr Venus, too. Is he a taxidermist? What is that fascination with bottled dead things? And bones?  You have the young miss, the friend of Bella Wilfer, Jenny Wren, deformed maker of doll dresses. She is comic but, somehow, laughing at a child so weary from her corrupt bones as to look like an old old woman is wrong.<br />As such, the whole is a puzzle. Second time through, it isn't any easier. But that - essentially, dissatisfaction, or ambiguity - makes for a tremendously satisfying reading. Yes, everything is resolved at the end for better or ill, but still: there is a dark, pitiless buzzing (like a wasp trapped in your stove pipe hat) that remains with you long after you have finished the book and read others.	2001-07-19
US	49293614	R11TJ99524LESE	1573221937	319964836	How To Be Good	Books	3	10	10	N	N	The Push-Me, Pull-You	There is a scene towards the end of &quot;How to be good&quot; which so summed up my reaction to the book that it nearly but not quite knocked me off my stool. The narrator Katie Carr, a doctor and not a religious woman by nature, attends a Catholic Mass (along with maybe half a dozen others). She participates in the singing (up to a point) and feels (important this) slightly embarrassed when the priest (or vicar or whatever, I never have known which is right) goes too far. You get the impression that Katie is with the representative of the church up to a point (wanting the best for others, all of that, but wanting a little, wanting something, for herself and her children) but feels embarrassed (with herself as much as anybody else) when the service becomes (to paraphrase Michael Caine's &quot;Alfie&quot;) too churchified. <br />That's how I felt (and feel) about this book. I am there, enjoying myself, up to a point and then, quickly, virtually instantaneously, I feel embarrassed and want to hide the book beneath a newspaper or another (weightier) book. There is, however, a good reason for this. <br />But we'll come to that.<br />Initially, the plot of the novel reads like one of those ads you get in the back of a newspaper. You know: lonely, thirty-six, looking for fun; seeks companion, non-smoker, GSOH, own head of hair, all that. In this case - in the case of &quot;How to be good&quot; - the ad would read: Katie Carr, married to David, but bored and fed up, two children, one of whom she is not sure she always likes, one of whom does not really like her most of the time, having an affair but not really knowing why, seeks - what? Reasons to go on living, most likely. That is how it would start. Within the first chapters of the novel, however, there is a kind of transformation. David, the husband, formally responsible for the &quot;Angriest Man in Holloway&quot;, a ranting column in a local newspaper, turns over a new leaf. He becomes good. More good than Katie (who, as we said, likes to think of herself as good - like most of us - without actually doing all that much to warrant the title and, besides, actually liking &quot;things&quot; like food in the freezer, computers for her children, the odd book or CD). Which would make for an interesting dynamic, if it wasn't for . . .<br />Ah yes. The reason for that embarrassment. David turns over a new leaf following his healing at the hands of a soothsayer called GoodNews. David brings GoodNews to live with the family. The family accepts GoodNews (or, at least, only voice disapproval through sarcasm) and the novel rolls on. Or rather, the novel disembarks, leaving you standing on the quayside wondering just what happened. Because, the thing is, crucially, you stop believing in the reality of the book when GoodNews shows up. It even feels like Katie does too. She continues to narrate events (with all of the undoubted finesse Hornby has for recording the vacillations of the human mind), and question her responses, but there is no doubt that the whole thing feels - peculiar. Which leaves the novel like an overturned tortoise, struggling to get back on its feet. The whole thing becomes a little silly - because you can't help but feel - well, she would throw him out, wouldn't she? Wouldn't she? If somebody's husband just went too far, wouldn't they struggle to recreate an air of normality? Or would they just - let things happen? <br />I don't know. As it is. What you are left with is that curious beast, last seen ambling alongside Rex Harrison in the film of &quot;Dr Doolittle&quot;: the push-me, pull-you. In essence, neither one thing or another and suffering as a consequence.	2001-07-19
US	49293614	R2PA9FQI7RRSJJ	0618135871	591651540	The Dying Animal	Books	4	8	10	N	N	The Braid of Dominance	As with all (or recent) Philip Roth novels, this struggles somewhat to avoid identification. It is like a beast caught within a sack half its size. You try to hold it - you want to keep it within the sack after all - but you quickly realise that whatever you do - however much you slam the sack against a wall or attempt to keep your hands together around the lip of the bag - sooner or later, the thing in the bag will get out and then where will you be?<br />The beast metaphor is sort of apposite too. In the opening maybe thirty pages, the beast is a snake. It comes as something of a shock after the last three novels (the collossal genius of &quot;American Pastoral&quot;, &quot;I married a Communist&quot; and &quot;The Human Stain&quot;), all voiced by the (now) retiring Nathan Zuckerman, to hear David Kepesh. Salty snake-like David Kepesh. The first thirty pages (at least) slip round you in a way that makes you shudder. The words are oily. Naked with a dirty kind of honesty, sexual flagrancy. You don't like David Kepesh. He is a vulgar erudite snake. He is a sexual predator. He is a kind of celebrity (in the way that, say Frasier Crane is a celebrity), regularly appearing on a Sunday morning culture programme on the TV.  We know David Kepesh. We have met him before, in &quot;The Breast&quot; and &quot;The Professor of Desire&quot;. <br />And yet and yet.<br />He has an affair (only the latest in a long line but different and dictinct for all that) with a young student Consuela Castillo, a girl who does not understand art (who questions her relationship to Picasso, for example, in a way that suggests she puts too much thought into what she perceives, and how she is perceived). Unlike his countless previous conquests, though, Consuela unseats Kepesh and leaves him floundering. He is riven with jealousy. He wants to possess her in a way she has never been possessed before. He dissects the position of dominance within their relationship: yes, he is dominant, because he is 62 years old and knows more than her, but, at the same time, she is dominant because she is young and beautiful: the relationship is described by Roth as a &quot;braid&quot;, and the braid - when mentioned - remains with you throughout the first reading. <br />To combat this reliance, he takes up with another former student, a student he had an affair with years before who he meets by accident one day. Kepesh also ruminates upon his relationship with the son that hates him and blames him for the way that life has turned out. <br />Still, the affair with Consuela continues, only to be abandoned over something and nothing. Kepesh admits that it takes him three years to get over her. Three years to get out of the desperate need for her, the reliance upon the habit of her. There is a sense of Kepesh, within the pages of this short book, as a man keenly aware of loneliness, wanting company every second of his life, whilst at the same time desperate to be free of any kind of emotional shackles. David Kepesh is a twenty five year old (not wanting to settle down, not wanting to be lonely) in the body of a seventy year old. <br />What is important - and what slips within your reading alongside the braid of dominance - is the title. As with &quot;The Human Stain&quot; the title offers as much in the way of a challenge as the actual book. It's called &quot;The Dying Animal&quot; after all.  Just who is the dying animal? The most obvious choice would be Consuela, who phones Kepesh on New Year's Eve, 1999 (over three years after the end of their affair) to tell him that she may be dying. At the same time, however, the animal is Kepesh, giving into that braid of dominance once more. You can extrapolate further: the dying animal is sexuality, a certain kind of sexuality, a certain kind of masculinity. All these readings braid together, twisting and turning with the reality of smoke or fog.<br />As ever, it is a compelling ride. As ever, even in a short book, you can't help but feel cowed by the enormity of a person's talent. As ever, there are parts of the book that appal you - but that feeling, that being appalled, is part of what makes reading Roth novels so exhilerating. As ever, the specific becomes magnified. As ever, you can only read and re-read and over-read and over-complicate, and succeed in complicating and confusing the story. As ever, this is a story. To be enjoyed and shocked by. To be exhilerated by. As ever, once finished, you can but look to what comes next.	2001-07-19
US	49293614	R2EQ0XKWWQ2EUU	0385501560	729613164	Choke	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Your latest trick	Blame &quot;Fight Club&quot;. The movie and the book. Blame &quot;Survivor&quot; (the book, not the TV show). You see. Chuck Palahniuk has set himself up. He only has himself to blame. You go write two blazing, incendiary novels, people have expectations. Every novel has to be blazing and incendiary. More than that: each successive novel has to be more blazing and more incendiary than the one that preceded it. The conclusion I reached - ooh, about midway through &quot;Choke&quot; - was that, whilst making for a better read than (the unholy mess that was) &quot;Invisible Monsters&quot;, &quot;Choke&quot; is not quite as good as &quot;Survivor&quot;. Or rather, &quot;Choke&quot; is only as good as &quot;Survivor&quot; and - now that he has a back catalogue, as it were - it is time to raise the bar somewhat. <br />Which isn't really very fair, I know. Because &quot;Choke&quot; is a great book. A messy (but in a good way), diffuse look at what is rapidly coming to be a Palahniuk type (itself another problem: the narrators of his novels, be they men or women, are all the same voice): the post-outsider. Because Palahniuk's narrators are not just your average outsiders. They are former Cult members like &quot;Survivor&quot;'s Tender Branson, or models without a jaw like whatever the name of the character in &quot;Invisible Monsters&quot; was. Victor Mancini (the star of this particular fable) has a mother who used to be a sort of outlaw and is now dying from Alzheimers. To raise the money to keep her in a care home, he chokes on food each night in restaurants, safe in the knowledge that whoever saves him will inevitably feel beholden to him, for making them a hero. They send money. He pays bills. Victor is also a sex addict. He attends regular meetings (are you thinking &quot;Fight Club&quot;? me too) of sex addicts (except where they go to follow a twelve step programme, Victor goes to take notes).  What else, what else? Well, he works in a theme park that seeks to recreate the educational aspects of 1734. Everybody who works there is on some kind of unprescripted medication. He has a sort of a romance going with his mother's doctor. His friend Denny collects rocks. Just your average collection of fruit loops and start-of-the-century madmen then.<br />And of course it is all hugely enjoyable. A kind of romp. A Palahniuk romp. It's just that we've had Palahniuk romps now. It's time for a new trick. Because if, as every Tom, Jick and Harry contend, he is the new Don DeLillo, the new Bret Easton Ellis, the new whatever, it is time he set himself a challenge, it is time he sent himself a bomb wrapped in brown paper through the post, it is time he gave us Palahniuk's &quot;Underworld&quot; or &quot;Glamarama&quot; or whatever.	2001-07-19
US	49293614	R2L6ZFG7AFFPVJ	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	16	19	N	N	....	Awh man, what a book. What a book. If I wasn't trapped in this Brighton hotel - trapped here due to the torrential rain currently filling this seaside town from the bottom up - I would be out there, running around the streets like Kevin McCarthy at the end of Don Seigal's \\"Invasion of the Body Snatchers\\", telling everybody about this book. Because awh man, what a book. I want to be like a book-reading John the Baptist about this book. I'll be John the Bookworm. Go read this book. It's a humdinger. It's a five star read. <br />I mean. If you just look at the facts of what you get - just the facts alone. You get a guy jumping from the Empire State Building, secured by a mad collection of stupidly knotted elastic bands. You get a guy - the same guy, funnily enough - stranded in the Antarctic, with a radio and a lunatic (a lunatic who uses the bodies of dead dogs to repair his aeroplane) for company. You get a guy (yeah yeah yeah - it's the same guy - Kavalier, okay? Joe Kavalier) smuggled out of war-torn Prague in the coffin of the Golem. That would be the Golem - creature of Jewish legend - dressed in a suit from Joe Kavalier's dad's collection of giant suits. Because Joe Kavalier's dad collects clothes worn by people who were in some way set apart from others (giants, midgets etc). At the other end of the spectrum, you get Salvador Dali, drowning in a fish tank. Stan Lee gossiping in some coffee shop. McCarthy-esque McCarthyite hearings berating the guys who draw comic strips. Orson Welles. You get magic. Sleight of hand. Card tricks. You get Tannen's old magic shop. All that, and you get the Escapist too. <br />Because that is why you're here, at the start. The Escapist. That is what draws you in. Two guys - Kavalier and Clay - drawing comic books, drawing the Escapist. Who is sort of like Superman. Only not. He is one of those old time heroes. From the days when heroes did not have to be flawed. Which sounds a little John Wayne, I know (you can hear the voice-over,right? \\"When heroes could be heroes . . .\\"). But it isn't. The Escapist sets out to fight the Second World War, sets out to knock Hitler into a cocked hat (from day one, the cover of the first issue has the Escapist belting Hitler a good one, sending him flying right out into the reader's lap). The Escapist is the first of what eventually becomes a stable of heroes (the Monitor, the Luna Moth, all those people). <br />Which in itself, would be enough. As far as I am concerned, that seems like enough. But no. There's more. Aside of the two young geniuses responsible for the Escapist - Kavalier and Clay - you get the family Kavalier had to fatally and guiltily leave behind in Prague. You get wild Rosa Saks and her father, Siggy. You get fat old Anapol, making money off of those whippersnappers responsible for the comic. You get a love story (Joe and Rosa). You get a sort of coming-of-age story (Sam Clay, his relationship with the actor playing the Escapist on a radio show, a guy called Bacon of all things). There is a kid called Tommy. There is a great period in the wilderness. There is a terrific - and by terrific, I mean of a great size, vast - rollercoaster heart thundering away in the midst of this novel (Chabon writes like an old time train driver, shovelling coal into the raging oven, propelling this amazing contraption along the tracks). <br />Like I said at the start. What a book. What a book. Awh man, what a book. ....	2001-07-19
US	49293614	R127ZI8499JHK8	0679781277	682628461	Martin Dressler: The Tale of an American Dreamer	Books	3	17	22	N	N	Lacunae Matata	In his book &quot;Experience&quot;, Martin Amis said that - he thought - there were two kinds of writers in the world. There were the writers who swooped (endlessly redrafting the same chunk of text until it was right, not moving on until the foundations were laid correctly), and the writers who bashed (knocking out one draft, improving it, improving it, improving it). The distinction went further: there were storytellers and there were stylists. The stylists are the artists, the people for whom the work is a text to be analysed and studied. The storytellers are journeymen, in it for the money. That is the quiet subtext (at least in my own reading of it). <br />Reason I mention it here, though, is that &quot;Martin Dressler&quot; is a stylised story (and Steven Milhauser, by implication, is a stylish storyteller - or a teller of stylish tales). Storytelling (and having a story told you), despite what others may profess, is actually enormously satisfying and those that do it well (I'm thinking of John Irving and T Coraghessan Boyle, amongst others) give their readers the satisfaction of a good meal. <br />To begin. They say that jazz was the first truly American art form. I disagree. There is an artform of American origin predating jazz. That artform is the rags-to-riches story. Or rather, the rags-to-riches-to-rags story. The great rise and fall. The pattern of the American Dream. The focus of this particular rise and fall (you may be less than surprised to learn) is Martin Dressler, the American Dreamer of the title.  On the surface you get the story of a butcher's boy who grows up to be a kind of hotel magnate.  In essence, boiled down for soup stock until only the bleached bones remain at the bottom of the pan, that's what you get: a butcher's boy with an obsession for, and fascination with, the hypodermic New York skyline. Martin begins working for a hotel. He starts up a string of profitable coffee houses.  He collaborates with a German architect on a series ofever-more elaborate hotels (worlds-within-worlds, hotels that stop you having to step outside the front door in the search for magnificence, hotels that are a phantasmagoria of magnificent sites).  <br />Which in itself would make for a terrific read.  But. But but but but but but but. The initial miasma of a world bidding adieu to horse drawn carriages and hello to grumpy automobiles, you glimpse through a kind of opiate fog. From the offing, there is something indeterminate here. You get the impression that the central point - the meaning - is hovering just out of sight. There is something lacking at the centre of Martin Dressler (both character and novel), and also something forced (the whole myth thing feels contrived - a square peg hammered through a round hole). The gap at the centre of the character is the story of the novel. He does not know what it is. He is looking for it. He does not find it. As such, the novel is a kind of architectural &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;. The gap at the centre of the character is the gap at the centre of the novel. <br />There is stark ambivalence here. You can lay this, in part, at the door of Martin Dressler himself. You get the impression that Martin Dressler imagines himself to be David Copperfield. The novel has a Dickensian feel for detail. At the same time, though, the mawkish sentimentality of some early Dickens (I'm thinking of, say, &quot;Oliver Twist&quot; or &quot;The Old Curiousity Shop&quot;) is married to the dark, fog-bound coolness of later Dickens (specifically, &quot;Great Expectations&quot;). Martin Dressler is David Copperfield by way of &quot;Great Expectations&quot;' Pip. Martin Dressler, you see, frequents prostitutes and cheats on his cold, silent wife (herself an almost mirror image of &quot;Great Expectations&quot;' Estella) on their wedding night. There is warmth here - the warmth of Dressler's hopes and ambitions - but the warmth quickly cools. The book reads like a story left out in the sun, with a brittle dryness at each page edge getting between you and it. The lack at the centre of Martin - the searching restlessness that leads him from one exotic bauble to another - is also at the heart of what you read, leaving you looking for a kind of satisfaction that does not exist within these pages.    <br />The warmth of the sun rising over a new city shines brightly through the opening chapters. However, the sun shines over a city so filled with tall buildings that whole streets spend each day in shadow. You know the sun is there, overhead. It is just that the light cannot get through. As such, the novel reads, finally, like the passage of a suicide (not a rise and fall, then, more of an elaborate swandive): from the sundrenched top floor of a grand hotel all the way down to the shadowy pavement however many floors below, from the brightest of white lights through to the depravity of shadow.	2001-07-15
US	49293614	R1H1F10WAKWCP4	0425165965	983349113	Timequake	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Strictly speaking - entertainment	Strictly speaking, this isn't a proper Kurt Vonnegut novel (in the sense that it isn't a fully-imagined novel with proper imagined characters and story and events - not that Vonnegut believes in any of that hokum anyway and neither should you, but that is besides the point right now): this is more like the post-mortem of a Kurt Vonnegut novel (which, in a way, it is). Strictly speaking, even by Vonnegut's impeccably high standards, &quot;Timequake&quot; is something of an oddity. <br />The post mortem. According to who you speak to, &quot;Timequake&quot; could have taken ten years to write. Apparently the book was abandoned. Vonnegut started over. Throughout &quot;Timequake&quot;, he refers to &quot;Timequake 1&quot;. In point of fact, &quot;Timequake&quot; should be called &quot;Timequake 2&quot;. You get the impression (from what the narrator says - we'll get to that in a minute) that &quot;Timequake 1&quot; was probably more straightfowardly novel-y than the version of &quot;Timequake&quot; you hold in your hand. Perhaps there has to be a timequake of some kind for all of this to make sense.<br />For the record. The events of the novel. There is a timequake in February 2001 that sends all of the inhabitants of Earth back in time by ten years. Everybody has to go through the motions and repeat what they did - precisely what they did, to the letter - again, until free will resumes (at the second February 2001). However, when free will resumes there is chaos because everybody forgot - over the course of the repeated ten years - what it was to have free will. <br />There is no narrator (unless you count Kurt - in the flesh, munching and ruminating - as the narrator). After all this time, he probably figures what the heck. They're all versions of me, anyway. He also refers to the practice of writing (acknowledging, perhaps bizarrely, within the confines of the novel that Kilgore Trout, his fictional alter-ego, performs the function of allowing Vonnegut to offload short story ideas he can no longer be bothered to write) in a way he hasn't before.<br />Aside of the action (or non-action) of the novel itself, the book is a space in which Vonnegut breathes his life now (it gets better second or third time through - it's like listening to the cracked leather of a wheezy old accordion): he tells you about his late sister, Allie, his brother who is dying of cancer, his grandkids who call him Junior. He tells you about books he has read and people he has met. He tells you what he thinks of Heaven. He talks about the war. He tells you that he thinks this will be his last book (apparently it isn't - hurrah!). There is terrific, bright wisdom here and (much-maligned, unfairly-maligned word this, but:) ENTERTAINMENT. Which is good. If only everybody sought to entertain. What a wonderful world it would be.	2001-06-21
US	49293614	RSUV14LOCMBBK	1861591799	67925070	The Keepers of Truth	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Huckleberry Dustbowl	There is something old-fashioned about \\"The Keepers of Truth\\". Aside of the fact that this is a story set in the historical past (pre-Reaganite America), and aside of the fact that the narrator (Bill) is caught up in the idea of the better days that existed for previous generations, this is an old-fashioned book. <br />The first real sign of this is to do with what \\"The Keepers of Truth\\" is : it's a whodunnit. That's right, you heard me good. A whodunnit. Like Agatha Christie (or the ghost of Agatha Christie at any rate). A whodunnit played out against a backdrop of closed factories, abandoned warehouses and rusted-up cranes,  populated by people with vacant stares, hollowed out and left puzzled by the fact that all of the skills they learned to get them through life no longer serve their purpose.<br />Old Man Lawton (a character as old as Steinbeck's dustbowl, as familiar as Huckleberry Finn) has upped and disappeared. The town points the finger at Ronny, Old Man Lawton's no-good son. Ronny and the old man were always fighting, they say. Seems perfectly natural one time it went too far. Ronny done gone chopped up his Pa. Only Pa is nowhere to be found. The police discover a severed finger but nobody ever died of a lost finger. Like everything else in the choked town, the investigation stalls before it starts.<br />Bill, the provincial newspaperman writing up the history of small defeats for the local rag (called \\"The Truth\\") in the days and weeks before head honcho Sam sells up and moves to Florida, is a subdued hero. While investigating the disappearance of Ronny's old man (in the dusty hiatus that acts as a transition between did-anybody-do-anything and whodunnit), Bill becomes implicated in the tiny lives and futile gestures of the bit-part players involved (Ronny Lawton, his estranged trailer-trash wife and kid, the local hairdresser, the jaded policeman). Bill is a closed circuit. Nothing surprises him. Everything confirms his ennui.<br />The disappearance ofOld Man Lawton echoes throughout the book. Bill's grandfather, the refrigerator magnate, had himself frozen two generations back, round about the time all the major businesses folded. The town used to produce things. Now it is a cobweb of places to eat. So people eat, hoping the food will plug up the holes left by what has gone. Bill's father killed himself. Ronny's brother dies in Vietnam. There is an unnamed baby buried in the Lawton cellar. <br />It's a syndrome, all of this : the apotheosis of Joachism, a transition without end that comes to define our lives. Bill's attachment to the past - and America's relationship with the types of industry it all but abandoned - is a kind of ever-decreasing circle, a trap too subtle to escape.<br />By eulogising the past, you derogate the present and abnegate the future. Truth itself (newspaper truth) becomes old-fashioned. Bill writes but nobody reads. Sales figures dwindle. People don't want bald statements in print. Reading takes time. TV is easy. TV is bite-sized. \\"The Truth\\" has become out-moded. TV offers myth and consolation. A newspaper is static and static is fuzzy.<br />The keepers of truth turn out to be the people who look after that which has ceased to mean anything. The keepers of truth are weak historians fending off the battery of the present with rolled-up newspapers. Satchel Page, an old ballplayer, said \\"Never look back, somebody might be gaining on you\\". Bill finds this \\"sad, and yet defiant.\\" Sad, perhaps, because you must know what you have been to understand what you are. Defiant because it embodies a pioneering spirit of looking to the future that was frozen for Bill two generations earlier.	2001-05-23
US	49293614	R7YUYFRY7IDF	0679403922	788319158	The Cold Six Thousand	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Caught in the dog's mouth	<br />Everything you've heard is true. They call him the pitbull. His books conjure up those old warhorse dogs from Jack London. The old dogs that legends sprout up around. They sink their teeth into the dogs they fight and don't let go. \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" is Ellroy to the power of fifty. Ellroy triple cubed. Ellroy redux. I mean, it's still recognisably Ellroy. It's still the Ellroy you know and love (as much as you can ever love a fiercely obstinate bulldog that you secretly suspect wants to gnaw on your head): the men are still men (real men, Henry Rollins men, men hewn from neither wood nor concrete, men hewn from neither sand nor clay, men hewn from the darkest of dark belly blood); the women are still suspect (their stories are their own, contrapuntal to the heavy masculine flow of history, history with a capital aitch isn't their story etc); the plots are still maddeningly obscure, gossip reported second hand and filtered through too-bright sunlight, reports slipped out of files and edited, transcribed phone tapped incoherent speech between shady historical middlemen caught in a downpour.<br />\\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" starts where \\"American Tabloid\\" left off. Without \\"American Tabloid\\" you are lost. You cannot think about taking on \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" without reading or re-reading \\"American Tabloid\\". It may be you know \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" is a sequel to \\"American Tabloid\\" and suspect the relationship is similar to that of the four books that make up the darkly majestic LA Quartet. Big mistake. Where you can pick up \\"The Big Nowhere\\" without having read \\"The Black Dahlia\\" (you shouldn't, but you can), you cannot read \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" without \\"American Tabloid\\". For chapter one of \\"...Cold...\\", read chapter 100 of \\"...Tabloid.\\" We are back with Pete Bondurant. We are back with Ward Littell. JFK is dead. The sharp focus of \\"...Tabloid\\" - the events that lead up to the assassination of Kennedy - is gone. It is almost like somebody took the hardnut that was \\"...Tabloid\\" (picture this punch drunk Irish American with a black eye and a broken nose) and gave him boo-coo beats to the head. \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" reels wildly, psychotically, from Dallas to Vegas, from the boondocks to LA, to Vietnam, to Cuba. The mob is here. The klan is here. Civil rights campaigners are here. The FBI is here. The CIA is here. Bobby Kennedy is here. J Edgar Hoover. The beard is here. Martin Luther King is here, performing in his jammies. <br />It's history, yes. History. Kind of. But not the history you read about in books or watch on Discovery. It's suspect history. Dirty history. Its the history of grime. It's history that builds up under your fingernails (like earth from the last body you buried, or blood from the last Marv you offed).<br />This is not a book you can dip into for thirty minutes every night before you go to sleep. \\"The Cold Six Thousand\\" demands attention (because it slips and slides and eludes you). You must devote yourself to La Causa. You have to sign up. Be part of the Kadre. It's like a dark love or a form of perversion. It's something adulterous. Something bad for you. You know you shouldn't, but you do. You don't have a choice. The whole shameful thing is wrong but you cannot help yourself. You read and read and read and read because you don't have a choice and because James Ellroy is probably alone in wanting you to share with him the very depths (because, perhaps, James Ellroy is alone in understanding that you can only appreciate the light and the life and the joy if you know what exists in the spaces and gaps left behind when light and life and joy exit stage left.)	2001-05-23
US	49293614	R1UVUJO9CMC3AH	0002258471	495145095	Super-Cannes	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Pier and Ocean	The painter Piet Mondriaan is most famous for the strings of yellow and blue lines that make up his later works. The genesis of the blue and yellow paintings - the fascination with the convergence of vertical and horizontal lines - can be observed (quite tangibly) in the early paintings. Between 1908 and 1910, Mondriaan lived in the Zeeuws village Loverendale in Holland. It is here he painted &quot;Trees along the gein&quot; - a fairly straight rendering of trees reflected in water. You see the trees, you see the reflection. Four years on from &quot;Trees along the gein&quot;, he painted &quot;Tree1&quot; - an interpreted tree: pure reflection, leaves as seen through the surface of a lake. <br />What has all of this to do with JG Ballard, you ask yourself? <br />Well. &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; is a progression from &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot; in the way that &quot;Tree1&quot; is a progression from &quot;Trees along the Gein&quot;. You can see the creative mind at work as clearly as you can see a skimmed stone rippling across the surface of a lake. <br />As with the paintings, there are great similarities between the two novels. Both begin after an atrocity - in &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot; a great fire, in &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; a killing spree. Both atrocities implicate the late-coming narrator - in &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot;, the narrator's brother allegedly started the conflagration, in &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; the narrator's wife's former lover allegedly embarked on a killing spree. Both narrator's discover the world they have entered - in &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot; it is the leisure complex Estrella del Mar, in &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; it is the business park Eden-Olympia - is not what it seems. Each narrator investigates the atrocity, each narrator becomes implicated - in one way or another - with the deceptions they discover. Each novel contains a charismatic spokesperson for transgression - in &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot; there is the tennis pro Bobby Crawford,in &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; you have the psychiatrist Wilder Penrose. Each novel features a femme fatale moving in and out of the shadows - in &quot;Cocaine Nights&quot; she is called Paula Hamilton, in &quot;Super-Cannes&quot; she is called Frances Baring. Each of the enclosed worlds presented - the leisure complex, the business park - offers itself up as a microcosm for a kind of ambitious future, and - as with all ambition - the worlds want to expand: each novel includes plans for expansion. Indeed it is the proposed expansion of each world that provokes the narrator - in each case, a kind of procrastinating Hamlet - to act. <br />The similarities between the two books do not dull the compulsion. Ballard is fierce (and seems to be growing fiercer as the decades pass). If anything, the similarities lend the differences that exist a certain dark parity. Where the residents of Estrella del Mar engage in drugs and wife swapping, the employees of Eden-Olympia vent their frustrations through paedophilia and race crime. Where Estrella del Mar picks fights with itself (provoking apathetic millionaires into community feeling by stealing videos and vandalising cars), Eden-Olympia regards itself as exactly what it says - a kind of Olympia, a residence to Gods who say exactly what is - and is not - permissible. <br />The next important painting for Mondriaan was &quot;Piers and Ocean&quot;, a painting that obscures the muddy reflection of &quot;Tree1&quot;. &quot;Piers and Ocean&quot; is no longer clear. We had the tree, we had the reflection, next we had something else all together: an explosion of random vertical and horizontal lines that don't seem to fit together and don't seem to make sense in the way that the landscapes did. We can only hope that the third part of what is shaping up into a kind of trilogy for Ballard is as muddy and obscure and compelling as that.	2001-05-23
US	49293614	R3I5VKTEPQ200W	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Another Monster Book	Over the last year or so, I've read &quot;Bag of Bones&quot;, &quot;The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon&quot; and &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot;. I saw a review - can't remember where - that said &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; was kind of &quot;It&quot; meets &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot;, so I went back: read &quot;It&quot; again (still not a great book, too long, too messy, too much of a dip in the middle), read &quot;The Tommyknockers&quot; for the first time (a complete mess but, in retrospect, sort of interesting, actually).<br />As with every recent Stephen King, everything starts off well. The first maybe 100 pages rocks along at a cracking pace. As long as you don't quite know what to expect (even though, of course, you know exactly what to expect), everything is good. Everything is fine. Stephen King is very good at suggesting the outline of something unsettling in the dark. The problems begin when he takes out his torch and shines it directly into the space you were busy filling with horrible things. As soon as you know what is actually hiding there, the tension (admirably created by the opening of this book, and the opening of &quot;Bag of Bones&quot;, and the opening of &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot;) evaporates.<br />The problem - the main problem - with Stephen King's novels (and &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; in particular) is that nothing is ever enough. You take a central premise - a stranger disturbs a hunting party up in the woods - and add UFOs, grey aliens, parasites that grow in your intestines and eat their way out, insane government men, telepathy, bacteria that travels on the air like pollen, Russian suicides and disabled psychics among other things (and I do mean amongst other things - I'm chipping the &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; iceberg here). Nothing is ever enough. <br />The full story (centred, I suppose, albeit haphazardly, around the four men that make up the hunting party) skips back to when the adults were kids themselves (in much the same way that &quot;It&quot; does). Which means that - with all the skipping back and forth between characters and epochs - you have something resembling a trip to Tralfalmadore with Kilgore Trout (without Vonnegut's knack for keeping complexity simple). <br />All of which (I was going to say) makes for an experience closer to Ed Wood or William Castle than (and here is my problem: who is genuinely scary? who figures at the other end of the scale? The only half scary book I've chanced across recently was Mark Danielewski's &quot;House of Leaves&quot; but you can't hold that up as a comparison. Or can you? The thing is, importantly, Danielewski takes risks and Stephen King does not . . . So maybe it's that. Ed Wood and William Castle on one side and risk on the other.)<br />Years ago, Stephen King said (re - &quot;Pet Sematery&quot;) that he wrote about what frightened him. I don't think that is true any longer. I don't think Stephen King is scared of aliens from space or bacteria that produce parasites in your belly. Which makes &quot;Dreamcatcher&quot; a sort of hollow unworthy experience, typical of every recent Stephen King novel you could care to mention.	2001-04-23
US	49293614	RSYKAQCUYU13	0517209489	134789254	Planet of the Apes (Cinema Classics (Gramercy Books (Firm)).)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	So Go Find	Before I started reading &quot;Monkey Planet&quot;, I thought this book is cool. Cool in the same way that Martin Caidin's book &quot;Cyborg&quot; (on which the Lee Major's show &quot;The Six Million Dollar Man&quot; was based) is cool. Cool because - hey, here is this French guy who also wrote &quot;The Bridge Over The River Kwai&quot;, writing a tiny sci-fi novel that becomes a Charlton Heston-shaped phenomena. Cool because, in the rush to elevate the likes of Mr Heston and Roddy McDowell and the rest of them, the novel has been all-but forgotten. (Which, having read the book, is a little like Mary Shelley's little gothic number being forgotten in the wake of that monstrousity by Kenneth Branagh.)<br />A couple of space travellers chance across a message in a bottle. The story they find is the story you read. Basically, three astronauts travel three hundred light years (from Earth to Betelgeuse) and discover a planet similar to Earth, where the monkey reigns supreme. The narrator, Ulysse Merou, is separated from his fellow astronauts and imprisoned in a research laboratory with other humans. His attempts to communicate set him apart. He becomes something of a celebrity in the monkey world. But all is not well. Not all of the monkeys are keen on the idea of an intelligent human.<br />Part &quot;Brave New World&quot; and part &quot;The Time Machine&quot;, &quot;Monkey Planet&quot; is only sci-fi in the same way that &quot;1984&quot; or &quot;Gulliver's Travels&quot; is sci-fi. In point of fact, the resemblance between Pierre Merou and Lemuel Gulliver (particularly after Gulliver returns from the land of the Houyhnhnms) is startling. The book, first published in France as &quot;La Planete des Singes&quot; in 1963, has aged terrifically, avoiding most if not all of the potholes that sometimes beset semi-prophetic pseudo-sci-fi novels.<br />Know this. &quot;Monkey Planet&quot; is a gem. Unfortunately, it's a gem that has been lost underground, buried beneath the film, the sequels and the ropey TV show. &quot;Monkey Planet&quot; is a lost classic, floating through space in a bottle waiting to be found. So go find., the sequels and the ropey TV show. &quot;Monkey Planet&quot; is a lost classic, floating through space in a bottle waiting to be found. So go find.	2001-04-16
US	49293614	R5WC75AYQY4X1	0140444173	748295604	War and Peace (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	15	29	N	N	Skinning a whale	It isn't enough. That's my starting point. It isn't enough to say this is the greatest novel ever written. Or: this is not the greatest novel ever written. Certainly when I'm told that size matters, I disagree. The great artists - the people I regard as great artists - aspire to brevity. Great artists don't say everything. Or rather, great artists don't feel the need to use fifty gazillion words to get the point across. Great artists (I'm labouring this, I know, but: think Beckett, think Kundera, think Borges) aspire to brevity because in brevity you have the pure unadulterated moment. Think Keats. The kiss that never was. You with me?<br />Second thing. Actually no. The second thing can wait. Because, importantly, this is &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot;. This isn't a walk in the park. This is one of the towering novelistic achievements. This isn't regarded as one of the great books of the century. This is regarded as one of the greatest books ever. If you don't start reading with open eyes and an open mind, you might just let that trick you. You might just let that convince you that any - gulp - failing you chance across is your fault and not Tolstoy's. Before that second thing. An obvious thing. Tolstoy was only a man. All Tolstoy did was write a huge book. Okay?  Don't be afraid. Just look out for the others.<br />Because that's the second thing. Reading &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; - getting all the way through from page one to page fourteen hundred and whatever (excuse me, I'm not going to get up, take the book down and look, there are more than fourteen hundred pages, that's all you need to know) - is an accomplishment. Unfortunately that accomplishment can be a little like climbing Everest without oxygen. By the time you're done, you think all life is here. You've been holding the book up against your face so long, you can no longer understand what you're seeing, you can no longer be critical. Be critical. Start the book critical. Read the book critical. Finish the book critical. Think about the book critical. Do all that. Make up your own mind and be strong.<br />The point being, I think, that nothing so vast can inspire such honest devotion. Treating &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; like a natural wonder - treating &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; like the Grand Canyon or something - is a mistake.<br />The book itself. In sixteen words. The travails of a group of people against a backdrop of the Napoleonic invasion of Russia. Importantly, those sixteen words also illustrate something vital about the experience of reading &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot;. You're reading about a group of people within an enormous historical context. (I'm making an effort to simplify here because the book is difficult and awkward. Bear with me.) The group of people make up the novel. The enormous historical context is something else altogether. As the book proceeds, the influence of Tolstoy (enemy of the historical reinvention of the past by historians, despite the fact that - yes - &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is also one of those historical reinventions of the past by a historian) exerts itself to a greater and greater extent. As the book proceeds, Tolstoy goes to war on historians (and diatribe goes to war on novel).<br />In lots of ways, the experience of reading &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is akin to that of reading Melville's &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. The novel is fine, the novel is good, the characters are engaging, you are interested, you want to know more but - uh-oh, here comes another 180-page digression explaining how to skin a whale.<br />If &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; was just a novel, then perhaps you would merely concern yourself with the impetuous young Nikolai Rostov and his on-off love affair with the house-cat that is Sonya. If &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; was just a novel, it could be you would spend time asking yourself whether Pierre was right to duel with Dolohov over Helene or whether Prince Andrei should have forgiven Natasha and not gone off to war. Of course, &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is not just a novel. These people act out their tiny business against a backdrop of the Napoleonic invasion of Russia, and the Napoleonic invasion of Russia intrudes upon the action of the novel in much the same way that documentary film-footage intrudes upon the action of a romantic comedy. Not that the fictive action of &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is in anyway similar to the action of a romantic comedy. (You see how difficult this is?)<br />Afterwards - having got to the other side and clasped my hands over my head like a champion - it occurs to me that novel is not the place for an extended rant about history. History, the art of history and the artfulness of the historian. Especially when, paradoxically, that's what you are doing. Tolstoy's feelings about the Napoleonic invasion of Russia, Tolstoy's feelings about Napoleon, Tolstoy's feelings about historical versions of Napoleon intrudes upon the action of the novel in much the same way that Brecht hoped his actors changing on stage would intrude upon the action of a play. Except Brecht hoped to alienate his audience, wanting to constantly reaffirm the fact that the audience was in a theatre watching a play (hoping that the alienation technique would allow the critical faculty to remain engaged). I truly believe that is not Tolstoy's intention. Tolstoy just gets worked up enough to let his rants intrude.<br />Still. To be brief. &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; does not provide (or does not provide me) with the thrill that Dickens does, or Dostoefski does. &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is hard. It's a challenge. It sits there on your shelf saying come and have a go if you think you're hard enough. Reading it is, in places, a little like waging a military campaign yourself. I feel like the blasted bombshook individuals making their shaky way back to the burnt out Moscow at the book's climax (well, in the last three hundred pages). It's an experience. I can say that I did it. It took me just a little over four weeks, but I did it. Which feels good. (And makes me some kind of dilletante probably but, hey, what are you gonna do?)t gone off to war. Of course, &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is not just a novel. These people act out their tiny business against a backdrop of the Napoleonic invasion of Russia, and the Napoleonic invasion of Russia intrudes upon the action of the novel in much the same way that documentary film-footage intrudes upon the action of a romantic comedy. Not that the fictive action of &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is in anyway similar to the action of a romantic comedy. (You see how difficult this is?)<br />Afterwards - having got to the other side and clasped my hands over my head like a champion - it occurs to me that novel is not the place for an extended rant about history. History, the art of history and the artfulness of the historian. Especially when, paradoxically, that's what you are doing. Tolstoy's feelings about the Napoleonic invasion of Russia, Tolstoy's feelings about Napoleon, Tolstoy's feelings about historical versions of Napoleon intrudes upon the action of the novel in much the same way that Brecht hoped his actors changing on stage would intrude upon the action of a play. Except Brecht hoped to alienate his audience, wanting to constantly reaffirm the fact that the audience was in a theatre watching a play (hoping that the alienation technique would allow the critical faculty to remain engaged). I truly believe that is not Tolstoy's intention. Tolstoy just gets worked up enough to let his rants intrude. <br />Still. To be brief. &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; does not provide (or does not provide me) with the thrill that Dickens does, or Dostoefski does. &quot;War &amp; Peace&quot; is hard. It's a challenge. It sits there on your shelf saying come and have a go if you think you're hard enough. Reading it is, in places, a little like waging a military campaign yourself. I feel like the blasted bombshook individuals making their shaky way back to the burnt out Moscow at the book's climax (well, in the last three hundred pages). It's an experience. I can saythat I did it. It took me just a little over four weeks, but I did it. Which feels good. (And makes me some kind of dilletante probably but, hey, what are you gonna do?)	2001-04-12
US	49293614	R25KVR459CR685	074320395X	785819131	The Body Artist: A Novel	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Sour Grapes	My girlfriend went shopping and bought grapes which she left in the fridge for me for when I got home from work, knowing that I like grapes that have been left in the fridge for an hour or two. It pleased me, her doing that and knowing that. <br />I took the grapes into the living room, thinking I'd eat them while I read the DeLillo (because it's pleasant combining joys, when you can). It occurred to me that there were more grapes than pages, but still. The opening pages were as fresh as the grape circumference splitting against the roof of my mouth, cold juice. The wife and the husband in the kitchen eating breakfast. The clumsy muddle of details. Food and radios and movement and things said and unsaid. (Also, already, the peculiarity of the dialogue read alongside the incisive, surreal prose - the way the dialogue alienates you in its unreality, the way the prose seduces you.)<br />The story - what story there is - goes like this. A woman, Lauren Hartke, loses her husband. Or rather is deprived of her husband, who takes his life in his first wife's apartment in New York. He was a film director. She is a body artist. Those words, the words of the title, are unusual. You ask yourself precisely what that is - a body artist. There is a coolness in that phrase, a detachment from the physicality of life. Lauren is an observer, not a participant. Or so it feels to me. (Which reminds me again of the effect of the - bad? no, it couldn't be - dialogue and the wonderful writing. That breakfast scene again. The husband, Rey Robles, eats a fig, spreads it on toast, &quot;spread it with the bottom of the spoon, blood-buttery swirls that popped with seedlife.&quot;)<br />Left alone, Lauren becomes abstract. The whole novel, what there is of it, becomes abstract. We're in a Klara Sax painting. Or a clumsy sculpture. That clumsy word again. <br />She discovers a man. What could be a man. She calls him Mr Tuttles. He has been living in her home. We don't know where or how. She cannot tell. He is not always around. He is strange and otherworldly. He is the monster that appears at the edge of the bed in that Stephen King book, &quot;Gerald's Game.&quot; Only he isn't a monster. He is a cartoon. He can imitate her husband. She is drawn to this, drawn to the cartoon man as a way through grief. You don't know if the man is real or in her head. You sort of feel this is grief, a manifestation of dealing with something larger than yourself. Lauren is Catherine Deneuve in &quot;Belle de Jour&quot;. Lauren is Catherine Deneuve in that Roman Polanski film. Whatever it was called. &quot;Repulsion.&quot; <br />Lauren produces a piece of work. She is a body artist, after all. Her aim, she says is to &quot;Make a still life that's living, not painted.&quot; Which is what we have here. In a way. An abstract still life that doesn't admit a single meaning (because it does not admit itself). The woman interviewing Hartke says &quot;Her art in this piece is obscure, slow, difficult and sometimes agonizing . . . It is about who we are when we are not rehearsing who we are.&quot; <br />Why I mentioned the grapes here, why I felt they were important to this - for you: the grapes were a simple, pure, unadulterated joy. The DeLillo was not. (Nor, perhaps, should it be.) But it should offer itself up. It shouldn't hide. There should be a clarity, a hygiene, of perception that the book lacks. It's another example (like - blasphemy, I know, but - &quot;Underworld&quot;) of DeLillo seeking to find a way of expressing something difficult and almost but not quite making it. There is never any doubting the writing. The doubt is only ever with what the writing is trying to say. Obscure, slow and difficult.  <br />There are elements of a horror story here. It would be creepy if it wasn't so - ineffectual. There is a little bad weather, one morning towards the end of the book. &quot;The fog was somber and bronzed low-rolling toward the coast but then lost form on landfall, taking everything with it in amoebic murk.&quot; The amoebic murk is the thing. The details that require precision, the desire to know more, is lost in the amoebic murk. <br />The grapes were sharp, sweet, easy and beautiful. The DeLillo was muddy and disappointing. There were more grapes in the bag than pages in the book. There was more (what? more of that thing that makes life exciting, more of that thing that can't be reduced to a word or a phrase or a sentence, more of that stuff that great novels do so well) in the grapes.	2001-04-03
US	49293614	R1VI8VEL4E6N7S	0140296093	763690569	The Love Hexagon	Books	1	5	9	N	N	Not Writing	Truman Capote didn't like Jack Kerouac. Referring to &quot;On the Road&quot;, he said: &quot;That isn't writing, that's typing.&quot; Heaven knows what Truman Capote would have made of William Sutcliffe's books. <br />Bear with me. This shouldn't take too long. <br />Some words just make your heart fall. In a moment, I'll use the word &quot;misadventures&quot;. It's against my better judgement and I use it knowing that the word is used to enliven an essentially tired proposition (I figure that &quot;misadventures&quot; is used in much the same way as defibrillators are used against the chest of somebody with cardiac problems). For misadventures, read typical. For misadventures, read boring. For misadventures, read predictable and stale. <br />&quot;The Love Hexagon&quot; (don't get me started on that title) concerns itself with the misadventures of six Londoners (three men and three women - are we still living in the nineteenth century?) as they fall in and out of friendship, love, bed, the off-licence, the video shop and the pub. Some of them sleep together. Some of them break up. Some of them are mean. Some of them are alright. All of them - all of them - are instantly forgettable. (I could refer back to the book and tell you their names but the names are ciphers for empty space - these people aren't shallow, these people don't exist beyond the confines of reported speech.)<br />Much of the book is conversation between two or more people. That isn't a problem, as such. (I mean, Manuel Puig wrote at least two books I know - the wonderful &quot;Kiss of the Spiderwoman&quot;, the equally wonderful &quot;Eternal Curse on the Reader of these Pages&quot; - entirely in reported speech.) It's more the fact that what gets said is just so damn worthless. The back cover copy reads: &quot;Six young Londoners all looking for something more from life.&quot; What is should read is: &quot;Six young Londoners all doing the same kinds of things as you only with less imagination.&quot; <br />It should be an essential truth for anybody who sits down to write a book (and I mean anybody): you should say what has never been said before. If you can't do that, then at least aim high (because, let's face it, you're Icarus, baby : you're aiming for the sun and you either make it or leave a terrible mess on the pavement). You don't aim to write an episode of &quot;Friends&quot; because - when you fail (and, take my word for it, &quot;The Love Hexagon&quot; fails) - what are you left with?<br />What you are left with, to paraphrase Truman Capote, is this: not writing, not even typing, just bad conversation.	2001-02-18
US	49293614	R3DQVNTZQY3BSA	0553107755	403168550	Fierce Invalids Home from Hot Climates	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Buisiness as usual	Tom Robbins shouldn't be writing best-selling novels. It's not right somehow. <br />Tom Robbins should be working some bazaar somewhere. There would be open sacks full of saffron and turmeric, vermin scurrying by your feet, crowds and smells and bizarre animals you've never heard of. Tom will be cooking something up. Or rather, there'll be somebody - some shady figure - behind the scenes cooking something up. Tom'll be out front with a cauldron and a spoon inviting you to taste something. The cauldron will be filled with a murky bubbling liquid, halfway between soup and stew. <br />Don't ask what's in there. Guaranteed you won't like the sound of it. The recipe would be half gumbo and half - whatever the stuff Burroughs poached from South America was (was it called yaga? hallucinogenic bark, at any rate), with maybe a hint of sandarac thrown in for good measure. <br />Novels written by Tom Robbins are always a heady brew. You know they are not good for you, but you can't help yourself. Once you've tasted that stew once, you'll never turn it down. Wherever you are, whatever is happening, all you need to do is see that name (Tom Robbins? Ah yes, that's our special today, sir!) and that's what you're ordering. <br />Switters is your guide. He's one of the angels. On a whatever-the-opposite-of-routine-is mission to South America, he is cursed by a pyramidal witch doctor such that his feet can't touch the ground. Now, the last thing a cuckoo needs is to be told that he can't put his feet on the ground. What follows is the product of a man with his head firmly in the clouds (cloud 9 to be precise). There are underage maneaters, renegade nuns, mad aunts, uptight English explorers and the model for Matisse's blue nude.  If you know Tom and you've read anything else (&quot;Half Asleep in Frog Pyjamas&quot;! &quot;Jitterbug Perfume&quot;! &quot;Still Life with Woodpecker&quot;!), you don't need me to tell you that this book is fun! You don't need me to tell you that here (inthis distant land with open sacks of saffron and turmeric, with vermin . . . etc etc) you will find the silliness of Brautigan mixed with the erudition of Vonnegut. It's another filibuster. <br />Business as usual.	2001-02-18
US	49293614	RKPQJC1351249	0312262434	275076262	An Unfortunate Woman: A Journey	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A cake-mix spoon book	As a rule, I always avoid the flyleaf of a book. <br />Lots of different reasons (sometimes the flyleaf gives away some of the story; sometimes the flyleaf puts me off a book I would otherwise enjoy - that's happened a few times now, it takes a reliable friend's recommendation to send me back; sometimes the flyleaf peddles a kind of tired apocrypha - stories about the author's life, stories about the author's stories; and, sometimes, you get force-fed a whole lot of corn - odd sentences extracted from reviews, comments from people who think they know stuff, all that guff telling you why this is the greatest book ever yada yada yada).<br />For this book, though, for Richard Brautigan's &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot;, the flyleaf rule goes out the window. I read the flyleaf the way a kid licks a cake-mix spoon. <br />Now, this could all get a bit AA but, yes, hand on heart, I am a devoted fan of the late and great Mister Richard Brautigan. I've read pretty much everything I could get my hands on (which is most of the novels and some of the poetry) and avoided all of the biographies (with the exception of his daughter Ianthe's sweet-sad book, &quot;You Can't Catch Death&quot;). I - uhm - eagerly anticipated this book (in the same way that I eagerly anticipated, say, Jeff Buckley's &quot;Sketches for My Sweetheart the Drunk&quot;) because it is one more thing snatched from the jaws of an undeserved end. Same thing with John Kennedy Toole's &quot;The Neon Bible&quot;. <br />I mentioned Jeff Buckley and that's useful to bear in mind if you're thinking of licking the cake-mix spoon. You know that CD right? &quot;Sketches for My Sweetheart the Drunk&quot;? You know that was released after his death. You know it would not have been released - at least in that state - if Jeff Buckley had not disappeared beneath the Mississippi waves. Same here. &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot; was a 160 page notebook filled with reminiscences. In lots of ways, we're doing something bad reading this. Maybe. It's sort of like reading over a corpse's shoulder. <br />And yet, and yet. Peter Fonda said &quot;How fortunate we are to have another book by our friend Richard Brautigan . . .&quot; A sentence into the book and that's how you feel. A book by a friend. <br />Brautigan books fall into two camps (I've always felt). You get the comedy, the silly (I'm thinking of, say, &quot;The Hawkline Monster&quot; or &quot;The Abortion&quot;), and you get the sweet-sad (say, &quot;In Watermelon Sugar&quot; and &quot;So the Wind Won't Blow it All Away&quot;). &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot; falls into the second camp. The messier more grown-up second camp. In lots of ways, &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot; reads like the wreck of &quot;In Watermelon Sugar&quot; and &quot;So the Wind . . .&quot; Margaret - the woman who hangs herself at the climax of &quot;...Watermelon&quot; - haunts &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot;. The narrator is fleeing the memory of the unnamed woman who hung herself in his apartment. He wanders around and thinks about stuff. He wanders around a whole lot of different places, the intention being to write some kind of mind-map. He comes home. That's about that. <br />Your old friend - the one you'd lost touch with, the one you thought you wouldn't be hearing from anytime soon - is there, telling you stories. It's just like it always was. There is no sense of time having passed. There is no sense of a gap in your knowledge (although you can't help but feel sad when he gets melancholy). <br />You're just sharing some stories and drinking some liquor and wondering why all books don't feel this - what? <br />I've been sitting here staring at that sentence for about ten minutes. The book feels good, the  book is enjoyable and the book is this, that and the other. If I had my way, I'd end the sentence with the word &quot;wise&quot; (because reading &quot;An Unfortunate Woman&quot;, you do conclude that Brautigan could be wise). <br />With this beingBrautigan, though, and with this being the last time:<br />You're just sharing some stories and drinking some liquor and wondering why all books don't feel this mayonaise (I've always wanted to end a review with the word mayonaise).	2001-02-18
US	49293614	R2EB84V6IY1X8L	0312267118	737914726	Animal Factory: A Novel	Books	4	11	19	N	N	The Solzhenitsyn Thing	So it aint Solzhenitsyn, and there should probably be a law against making the comparison - which I'd be all for: can you imagine that first day inside?<br />&quot;What you in for?&quot;<br />&quot;Comparing Eddie Bunker to Alexander Solzhenitsyn.&quot;<br />(Con whistles in admiration.) <br />Eddie Bunker was a rotten crook who pulled a bank job and got caught. Alexander Solzhenitsyn was locked up in a gulag under a despotic regime that didn't allow freedom of speech. (I'm generalising here, but stick with me, okay?) Bunker got his just desserts (some might say). Solzhenitsyn (again I'm generalising but) was in the wrong place at the wrong time. <br />You might also think that you have to buy into what is quickly developing into a culture of admiration for nasty ne'er-do-wells. People (and by people I mean: publishing executives, film moguls, idiots) like to romanticise the villain. Just watch &quot;McVicar&quot; or &quot;The Krays&quot; or even &quot;Chopper&quot; (which, credit where   credit's due, is a great movie). Read any of the chancy memoirs written by the gallery of supposedly lovable rogues (your Mad Frankie Frasers), who would like to give the impression that they only ever dispatched those who &quot;deserved&quot; it. Watch &quot;Lock Stock &amp; Two Mightily Over-rated Barrels.&quot; Read anything by Jake Arnott or James Hawes. <br />You don't, though. You don't have to buy into all that to like Eddie. (Although you'll have to get over the psychological obstacle of it: the publishers want you to think that Eddie is part and parcel of that whole thing. They include stupid quotes from stupid lad mags on the cover. They print the title in a font that aims to resemble the kind of print left by an ink-stained stamp. &quot;The Animal Factory&quot; has a grainy prison shot. Other Bunker novels have splashes of blood on them. You wonder why they didn't just go the whole hog. Write EDWARD BUNKER IS TOUGH or HE'S BEEN THERE, BABY, AND HE'S HERE TO TELL YOU ABOUT IT!)<br />All of which does Edward Bunker a grave disservice. He's a great writer. Regardless of anything else - regardless of the fact of his having a past - he is a great writer. The Solzhenitsyn thing is apposite. There are, in fact, many similarities between this book and &quot;...Ivan Denisovich&quot;. Bunker has a tremendous eye for details. It would be the easiest thing in the world to write an Elmore Leonard-lite prison novel revolving around authentic prison dialogue (authentic, yes, because Bunker has been there, I know). He doesn't do that, though. It would be easy to write and easier to sell. <br />What I think is this. <br />In &quot;Waiting for Godot&quot;, Vladimir says &quot;What do we do now?&quot; and Estragon replies &quot;Wait.&quot; I would imagine that that question - What do we do now? - gets asked a lot in prison. You've got time on your hands. You don't even have Godot to pretend to look forward to. Seems to me that Bunker read. His writing is informed with other books. &quot;The Animal Factory&quot; is as self-referentially canonical as T.S. Eliot would have any book be. I don't know the in's and out's of Bunker's life (and I'm quite happy with that), but I reckon he read a lot and started writing as a way to fill the otherwise empty hours. <br />It could have been that - without prison, without mixing in a hard-boiled, ugly crowd - he would never have wrote anything down. Could be any number of things. Whatever the reason, Bunker started writing and his hard, authentic voice is stripped of sensation and mightily persuasive. Bunker's characters are the flotsam spewed out of the machine that Sherman McCoy gets sucked into mid-way through &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot; (mid-way through &quot;Bonfire of the Vanities&quot;, just after Sherman gets arraigned, he emerges from the court house feeling dead, feeling chewed up and spat out but mostly dead - and that's the product that fills Bunker's books - all these lost misinformed souls ina different kind of gulag).	2001-02-18
US	49293614	R1FQWXKDGHX578	0876856555	634939937	1933 Was A Bad Year	Books	4	10	15	N	N	&quot;1933. . .&quot; was a good book	I first picked up a Fante book because someone told me that Bukowski was a huge fan. &quot;Ask the Dust&quot; - that first book -  introduced me to John Fante's alter ego, Arturo Bandini. It started to make sense to me, why Bukowski liked him. For Arturo Bandini read Henry Chinaski. I read around and learned one or two more things about Fante. Like how he was mainly a scriptwriter in Hollywood because his books didn't really sell. Like how he wrote four Bandini books. &quot;Wait Until Spring, Bandini&quot; and &quot;The Road to Los Angeles&quot; preceded &quot;Ask the Dust&quot;. &quot;Dreams from Bunker Hill&quot; came last, written in 1978 after Fante had gone blind. He dictated the book to his wife, Joyce.<br />I read &quot;Wait Until Spring, Bandini&quot; after &quot;Ask the Dust&quot; and didn't like it quite as much. &quot;Wait Until Spring, Bandini&quot; is a mean book. Not that meanness per se is a bad thing. Just that the meanness in &quot;Wait . . .&quot; seemed real. The authenticity of the feeling sapped me somewhat. I felt winded by the relentless pain. &quot;Wait . . .&quot; is &quot;Ham on Rye&quot; without the ham or the rye. I didn't seek out anything else. I mean, I toyed with reading other Fante books but somehow, I don't know, something always came up. It wasn't that I didn't care. It's just . . . I'm making excuses, I know. Not being honest, somehow. I just felt we weren't suited, John Fante and I. <br />Time went by. I got over it. Didn't think of him as often as I had. Opened myself up to new experiences. Got back out there. Said here I am. <br />At which point, &quot;1933 was a bad year&quot; came my way. I thought that - with the distance involved (between 1933 and now) - it couldn't hurt just to look inside. I approached it the way you'd approach a box somebody told you had a snake inside. You know? You kind of lift the lid, peer into the shadows, tense yourself ready to slam the lid down at the first sign of a hiss or a rattle. Instead I got this:<br />&quot;Wading home that night through flames of snow, my toes burning, my ears on fire, the snow swirling around me like a flock of angry nuns, I stopped dead in my tracks.&quot;<br />I stopped dead in my tracks too. Alright, I thought. All-right! The next 127 pages flew by in just over an hour and a half. It's the story of Dominic Molise - Bandini without the hard rock where his heart should be. It treads similar ground to &quot;Wait . . . &quot; (the wayward father, the flakey religious mother, the sweetheart who doesn't care, the poverty) but - for whatever reason - this just rang my bell far more than that. <br />Which is probably wrong. I know I've got things the wrong way up, that I should like the Bandini books more but - what are you gonna do?	2001-02-18
US	49293614	R2Z1CDV3SJJDTQ	158234082X	24249899	Kitchen Confidential: Adventures in the Culinary Underbelly	Books	3	10	14	N	N	The 3-star chef	Let me tell you something about this book, first. We'll go fromthere. &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; is a memoir written by AnthonyBourda..  Kitchen Confidential&quot; reads like a stone skipped over water. It's a series of brief (albeit entertaining) skips across water. A lot of water is skipped over. <br /> I mean, he tells you what kick-started his love of food (an epiphanical trip to France with his family as a kid). You learn some of what is important to him (example: he always wanted cook's hands - hands that have been chipped, grizzled, burned, chopped, worried, hurt, slit; example: he has standards - you can pretty much get away with murder in a Bourdain kitchen, but you must never be late, you must never disrespect the food). Aside of the cooking, you glimpse the Keith Richards figure behind the chef. A wilderness period is (frustratingly, little more than) alluded to. At the end of the book, he apologises to all of the people that had to endure all or some of the self-same wilderness period. Could be me, but I would have liked to know more about Bourdain's Hyde. <br />It's pretty hard to totally make your mind up one way or another about &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot;. <br />On the one hand, you've got the representation of Bourdain in the book. He's a Burt Lancaster, straight out of &quot;The Crimson Pirate&quot;. He's a pirate with a pirate crew. There's a whole team of bad boys herein. If there's a movie, you gotta call the movie &quot;Cookfellas&quot;. All of which is (for the most part) a riot. You know that we are not at home to Mr Truth a lot of the time. (In fact, a good part of the book reminded me of Lorenzo Carcaterra's similarly controversial &quot;Sleepers&quot;.) He's a pirate and embroidered stories are a pirate stock-in-trade, right? You wouldn't expect anything less. Truth doesn't matter. Bourdain is a five-star character.<br />However. Anthony Bourdain is not a writer. Or he's a writer the way Mickey Rourke is an actor. In the last few pages of &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot;, he says:<br />&quot;Lying in bed, smoking my sixth or seventh cigarette of the morning, I'm wondering what the hell I'm going to do today. Oh yeah, I gotta write this thing. But that's not work, really, is it? It feels somehow shifty and . . . dishonest, making a buck writing. Writing anything is a treason of sorts. Even the cold recitation of facts- which is hardly what I've been up to - is never the thing itself.&quot;<br />In lots of ways, &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; is a kind of jape. Worse than that (hell, he's not taking himself seriously, that's a good thing, in a way), though, is the sloppy edit. I'll tell you - there are commas in the middle of sentences, misspelled words (&quot;bons mosts&quot; instead of &quot;bon mots&quot;, par example), errors by the pound. If you served up this book in any editorial kitchen, you'd get laughed out of court. Mal teste, right? You read the book and it's frustrating to see such a lack of effort. It would take one or two reads by a person who does this for a living to straighten out those kinds of problems and it's shocking (to me) that the book hasn't had that. <br />Still. Always the pedant, right? Easier to spot a mistake after it's been made, right? Maybe. Still. The bad edit stops this book being a five. The Bourdain character (and it is a character, no mistaking that) is a pure five. You lose a star for the edit and you lose a star for the skipped water (next time: spill the beans!!). <br />Still. Three stars - you're a chef, right?	2001-01-11
US	49293614	R33ITE3EIL10T5	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The total ride	&quot;Survivor&quot; is a kind of trick. Better yet, &quot;Survivor&quot; is a kind of puzzle. I've read the thing twice now and it's still got me beat. <br />I mean, it's a great novel. Don't get me wrong about that. Pure entertainment. Dark as only the truly cruel can be. <br />Just so you know, it's the story of Tender Branson, the last surviving member of the Creedish cult - which, in turn, is one of those cults everybody pretty much thinks they know all about. Within the cult itself, you learn only what you are told by the elders (which means you do as you are told and abhore sex). As far as the outside world is concerned, for &quot;cult&quot; read devil worship, child abuse and mania. The fact that the body of the cult committed what can only be described as seppuku on the verge of being discovered for its implication in child slavery (with instructions left for surviving members out there in the world to follow suit as soon as they become aware of the seppuku) only confirms general preconceptions. <br />Of course it's more complicated than that. It's always more complicated than that. <br />Example: Tender operates a late-night phone advice line. Sick people, sad people, lonely people, messed-up people. They all call Tender wanting kind words and expecting help. Tender tells them to kill themselves. A lot of them do. One of the people who calls Tender is called Trevor. Tender tells Trevor to kill himself. Trevor kills himself. Tender visits Trevor's funeral plot (a cremation plaque halfway up a wall, you need a ladder to get there) and meets Trevor's sister, Fertility. Fertility and Trevor share a kind of foresight (they know all about disasters before they happen). Tender can't help but be drawn to Fertility . . .<br />Tender is telling you this - this and other stuff, so much other stuff, stories that read like the veins of a leaf, nervation - via the gift of the black box. I'm not giving anything away telling you this. You find this out on page one. Or rather you find this out on page 289. Because page 289 is page one. The book starts at the end and goes back (page by page, 289, 288, 287, 286) to the beginning (page four, page three, page two, page one). The book ends (begins, on page 289) with Tender aboard a plane he has hijacked with the intention of crashing into the ground. He is reading his story into the black box, with the knowledge that - whatever happens to him, whatever happens to the plane - the black box is safe, the story will get told. <br />It's a puzzle, like I said. <br />I saw Chuck Palahniuk do a reading and he said the book is a puzzle. He said not everybody gets it. He said there is a clue to the puzzle on page eight (whether he means the official page eight right at the end, or whether you count eight pages in from page 289, I don't know). <br />Not that it matters whether you can figure out what you have to figure out. <br />&quot;Survivor&quot; is a total ride. Palahniuk is one of maybe ten new writers worth keeping your eye on (and that's me being kind to everybody else). You never know what you're going to get. You can never prepare yourself for what he's going to throw at you. It's a total ride. And a puzzle that I can't figure.	2000-12-31
US	49293614	R3VITHJEDBW76V	0802131808	258431279	The Blind Owl	Books	1	23	43	N	N	Drawn nails	I'll tell you, first thing, without a word of a lie, I was looking forward to reading &quot;The Blind Owl&quot;. I'd heard the right noises (odd coos of approval and comparisons with other writers I liked) in the right places (other cool novels, hip joints packed to the rafters with swinging cats, that kind of thing) and I approached it (reluctantly, the way you approach anything you want to savour) like a dish of my most-favourite food, prepared to bite a hunk off, roll it over my tongue and press it flat against the roof of my mouth. I wanted to be surprised. I wanted it to better expectation (I never expected this food to melt like snow, who could have predicted that aniseed-y fennel aftertaste, that kind of thing). Because you have hopes. You have hopes for any new book (the way you have hopes for anything you invest yourself in). <br />Here is a book written by a friend and contemporary of Jean-Paul Sartre. Here is a book written by an intense bird-faced man from Persia who later killed himself for one of the multitude of never-to-be-understood reasons men kill themselves. Here is a book that has been described as a narcotic suicide note. <br />Although there are five chapters, the book essentially divides pretty evenly into two halves: the first three chapters make up part one, the last two chapters part two. <br />When you start reading, you are not disappointed. The book is peculiar. Dated like Kafka or Canetti but contemporary, dark and dreamlike (think Ishiguro's &quot;The Unconsoled&quot;). The food-y metaphor I was kicking around earlier is sort of apposite: &quot;The Blind Owl&quot; reads like a bubbling cauldron of something indiscriminate (it's been bubbling so long you can no longer tell precisely what went in there to make up this stew). The opium-addicted narrator mourns an ethereal lost-love (possibly glimpsed in narcotic stupour, possibly imagined, possibly dreamt) and you detect a pinch of Goethe's Werther. There is a cackling coachman and an angel-faced girl. Surely Bulgakov's 6ft cat can't be too far behind? A dead body is discovered in a bed. Do we alert the police? No. We hack the body into several large pieces and pack it up into a suitcase. Morality has gone. Think Edgar Allen Poe, think Magnus Mills. <br />So much for part one. <br />Part two (disappointingly, you can't help but think disappointingly) changes tack. I want to say that part two discards part one but that isn't entirely true. Images recur. Motifs circle back on themselves (the fish with the tail in its mouth). The reader is forced to decide for themselves what precisely went on. You tend to believe part one is a dream conjured from the sick-bed of part two. <br />The narrator is ill, poisoned with jealousy and confined to his bed. He spends his days quietly absorbing the world around him (the cackling Turk at the end of the road with his wares spread out before him on the ground, his nurse, his adulterous wife), letting the world around him short-circuit his already opium-wired fuses. (The stew that was bubbling in the cauldron has burned to the bottom of the pot.) You are reminded of the way Proust's narrator suffered at the hands of Albertine and self-doubt (but the reminder only serves to distract from what Hedayat is doing, the reminder only holds the book up to the light and the book suffers as a result). <br />The second, bed-ridden portion of the book is the real (diseased) body here. The trek you set out on in part one evaporates. You're in the middle of the countryside with no idea how you got there. You're disappointed. You can't help yourself. You're reminded of Knut Hamsuns's &quot;Hunger&quot;, another book that disappointed you. You don't stop reading, but the reading feels like insomnia, feels like a night spent hunched over in sorrow, wide-awake and needing sleep. You read and it is like bone-ache.<br />I wanted &quot;The Blind Owl&quot; to be a lost classic (and a kind of great tragedy, like John Kennedy Toole's &quot;A Confederacy of Dunces&quot; - one of the funniest books ever written and overlooked until after Toole's own early death). <br />Instead, I am left with the impression made upon me by Samuel Johnson's &quot;Rasselass&quot;: &quot;Rasselass&quot; clocks in at something under 120 pages, but it took me longer to read that than to read &quot;Our Mutual Friend&quot;. Whole host of reasons but primarily because the reading experience was akin to drawing nails or losing teeth. <br />Nobody wants or needs (or has the time) for drawn nails.	2000-12-31
US	49293614	RRYCU5DBFE5LH	0671223313	947790062	Sombrero Fallout	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Cracked kettles and dancing bears	There's this guy. You don't know what he's called (but, at a push, it might be Richard). He's a writer. No. Scratch that. He describes himself as &quot;an American humourist&quot;. You get the impression he is known and respected and all of the things any writer wants. He has just split with his long-term Japanese girlfriend Yukiko. Or rather, she has just split with him, after two years. The parting is not amicable. She is fed up with him. She has decided no more writers. She will never date a writer again. Writers are too high-maintenance. It may be, in time, she will look back on the times they have shared with something like fondness, but not yet, not now, not at the moment. At the moment, she wants to put those two wasted years behind her. The American humourist is understandably devastated. He is awake while Yukiko is sleeping and dreaming with her cat across town. He tries to write. <br />He starts a story about a sombrero that falls from the sky. We don't know why. The sombrero just fell from the sky.  We don't know how it got there. Just that it fell from the sky. The mayor, the mayor's aspiring cousin and an unemployed man converge on the hat. <br />At which point the American humourist tires of the sombrero, takes the paper from his typewriter and tears it into a million pieces before depositing said pieces in his wastepaper basket. The American humourist spends the rest of the novel trying to fill the gap left by Yukiko. Filling the gap involves thinking about food, searching for lost Japanese hair and thinking about what might have been. <br />While that is going on, the sombrero story (the story torn up and abandoned by the American humourist) develops a life of its own down there in the wastepaper basket. The mayor, the mayor's cousin and the unemployed man fall out about the sombrero. There is a riot. The national guard is called out. There are running gun battles, civilian casualties, chaos, the threat of civil war. The president makes a speech thatcomes to rival the Gettysburg Address. All that from a sombrero that falls from the sky. <br />None of which is really the point. <br />Gustave Flaubert said that language was like a cracked kettle on which we play tunes for bears to dance to hoping to move the stars to pity. I always think of this whenever I read anything by Brautigan. It's true of &quot;Sombrero Fallout&quot;. It's true of &quot;Revenge of the Lawn&quot;. It's true of &quot;A Confederate General from Big Sur&quot;. It's true of pretty much anything. I can picture him there, in a forest clearing with the remains of last night's fire burned out in front of him, the old cracked copper kettle upturned between his legs and all those bears dancing - bears dancing as far as the eye can see - and maybe rain, maybe a light rain because those stars are pitying, those stars are moved, those stars haven't seen the like and won't see the like again. <br />I'm loathe to try and pick a single example of exactly what I mean but I've just been playing Virgilian lots (I think that's what it's called, when you open a book at random anywhere and see what you can see) and I've found this. Here's Brautigan. He's talking about Yukiko's &quot;beautiful laugh (which) was like rain water pouring over daffodils made from silver&quot;. Could be that does nothing to you. Tell you something though. It makes me shiver. A lot of writers, reading comes to resemble panhandling for gold. You're there, holding the book in the water, trying to decide if that was gold or grit, unable to tell for sure. With Brautigan, it's all there. Each book is a bag of gold. You don't gotta do anything, just sit back and take it all in. Each book is a bag of gold and each grain shines.	2000-12-31
US	49293614	R1TS2ZWZRXCH0X	0671793349	303564375	The Dogs of Winter	Books	4	14	17	N	N	No hope save hope	This is not the kind of book I would normally pick up. The title is not so great. &quot;Dogs of Winter&quot; sounds like a straight-to-video action flick starring Charlie Sheen. <br />Then you read the back cover copy.<br />It's about a mystical cove in California. A place surfers talk about in hushed tones. The Devil's Hoof, home to the last great wave. Nobody has ever found it, but many have searched in vain. Until now. When I read that, I thought: okay - it's a surfer version of that over-rated Alex Garland book, &quot;The Beach&quot;.<br />A group made up of two young surfers, a grizzled old photographer, a legendary surfer and a young kid find the cove and decide to make something of it, which riles the local Indian population somewhat. When the kid vanishes beneath one of the great waves, the local Indian population decide to retaliate: the legendary surfer's half-mad wife is abducted and the young surfer, the old photographer and the legendary surfer disappear into the woods roundabout. At which point, it's a case of Alex Garland's &quot;The Beach&quot; meets - what? &quot;Straw Dogs&quot;? &quot;Deliverance&quot;?<br />I'll tell you. When I started reading I thought: this is a book without surprises. <br />I only started reading because of a conversation with a friend. We were talking about end-of-year polls, how you can often hear about books and music that passed you by, how you can often pick up a treat that otherwise you might have missed. He told me that he spotted &quot;Dogs of Winter&quot; in one such poll two or more years ago. He told me I should read it and - you know, you feel kind of obligated after that, right? <br />Recommendation notwithstanding, I approached this book like I'd approach a snake with it's back up.I'll tell you - I'll hold my hands up - I was wrong. This is not in the least like you expect it to be. <br />The thread of the novel primarily winds itself about three people - Fletcher (the grizzled old photographer I told you about), Kendra (the half-mad wife of the legendary surfer) and a local police guy / mediator called Travis. All of whom are in some way flawed. Fletcher used to be a great photographer but now he is relegated to weddings and drinking in the morning. Kendra has a history of insanity and worries about being her father's daughter, her father being the kind of guy who beat his wife and worked his way in and out of one institution or another. Travis used to be a hell-raiser, and has a reputation as a womaniser, but really he is a failure: two failed marriages and a kid he doesn't really know. When Travis stands out by the sea in the fog with his father, you see two versions of the same old goat.<br />Kem Nunn frustrates your expectations through deft deflection for the most part. Action occurs off camera. You chance upon the big plot turns after the fact - the reader is wandering about in the woods with all these other people, and you have as much chance as they do to converge upon what happens next. The convergences are not the most important parts of the story. <br />The weight of the book lies in the spaces between what happened before and what happens next, the still moments as characters watch the sky and regret choices (choices that shaped lives, choices that shaped the action over the previous pages). <br />&quot;Dogs in Winter&quot; is not a B-movie, straight-to-video action flick. &quot;Dogs in Winter&quot; is about age and the baggage you accumulate as you make your way from Point A to Point B. Towards the end of the book, Travis says:<br />&quot;A man should have something . . . some thread to the earth, lest he lose even the ground beneath his feet.&quot;<br />That's what all of these people are looking for. (I suppose you'd call it sense: that attempt to articulate and make sense of the larger things - like the effect of the sea upon the lives of those who live by the coast - even though the larger things often refuse articulation.) <br />Fletcher sums this up:<br/>&quot;It was his hope that these things were so ordered, though there was little foundation for this hope save hope itself.&quot;<br />The people in the book (Hell, the people reading the book) have hopes - frustrated or otherwise - and reading that acts like a congress, part sweet part sour. It's not the kind of book that would normally have caught my eye. Sometimes it's good to know people, good to have books (and ideas and anything else) thrust into your hand, sometimes it's good to be told what to do, because otherwise you'd miss out on the things that might otherwise have passed you by.	2000-12-08
US	49293614	R1WZYWHYWFFCJI	0312271921	815137418	No Logo: Taking Aim at the Brand Bullies	Books	4	44	53	N	N	I bought the guilt	I know a few people who have made it all the way through Naomi Klein's &quot;No Logo&quot; now. Not just dipping into it. Not just reading the cool stuff about political activism. I know people who strapped on the grappling hooks and traversed the book the whole way through, from one side to the other. <br />You might think I'm making a big deal about getting the whole way through. It's just &quot;No Logo&quot; is one of those books. Like Don DeLillo's &quot;Underworld&quot;. A book you feel you should read that you constantly put off. Well. I conquered Don DeLillo (it's worth it, it's worth it, the book is truly truly great), I won't let Naomi Klein beat me. <br />I started reading it alongside another book, a novel - figuring that the novel would offer light relief from the - weight of Naomi Klein's book. Only I ignored Naomi and read the novel instead. When I finished the novel and looked at &quot;No Logo&quot; (I was stuck on page 60, just before the photo of Richard Branson), I felt guilty and decided to devote myself to the cause: this wouldn't beat me, I would finish it and see what I could see. <br />Part of it was that I felt like a failure. That's what &quot;No Logo&quot; does. If you're not a political activist, if you're not campaigning to have sweatshops outlawed, if you haven't defaced a billboard or a website, if you want things - if you like things - (and by things, I mean everything from movies through to shoes), you will feel like a failure. You are not putting your time to the best possible use. <br />Which isn't to say &quot;No Logo&quot; is a bad book. By no means. &quot;No Logo&quot; is a great book. An important book (but, oh, how those words make your heart sink, right?). Naomi Klein is like a political God, an all-seeing eye. She knows everything. Such-and-such did such-and-such (which proved a failure because). Retrospect allows her to correct and revise. She is advancing a cause built on what happens next. Could be that what happens next is a damp squib. Nobody knows. Could be that what happens next changes everything. <br />You read &quot;No Logo&quot; and you want the world she wants. At the same time, you live in the world and you owe money and you have to pay bills and clothe your children and it's a hard thing to do. Political decisions are fine for those who are not daily chastised by the limits of what they can cope with. You are not an extreme. You are not living in an export processing zone. You work. You make money. Not enough money, but not 6 cents a day. Liberal guilt, liberal guilt, liberal guilt. You feel you are making excuses at the same time you think, no, I'm just living a life like a hundred million other people. What a terrible thing that is. <br />I'm a bad person. &quot;No Logo&quot; does not make me want to run out and change the world. Although it does help me understand those that have the privilege to run out and change the world, and applaud them (in a way). Part of me thinks that those free enough to campaign - people who don't have to work, or worry about debts, or wonder about what they are going to do next and can worry about what others are going to do next - haven't lived the life I've lived. And part of me thinks that I'm a bad person. <br />If you asked me, I'd say read &quot;No Logo&quot;. For a whole host of reasons. If you asked me, I'd say attend the next reclaim the streets march. I'd say don't shop anywhere that treats you like money fodder. I'd say think and do whatever little you can, because whatever little is something. I'd say don't sneer at anyone. I'd say treat everybody with respect because not everybody knows what you know and not everybody has the freedom to make up their own mind. <br />If you asked me, I'd say read &quot;No Logo&quot;.	2000-12-05
US	49293614	R3LXXUAB8DAD6S	038549923X	27514325	The Question of Bruno	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Something bright and fearful	You don't get far with &quot;The Question of Bruno&quot; without knowing a little about Aleksander Hemon, so here goes : born in Sarajevo in 1964, emigrated to Chicago in 1992, took a series of menial job-type-jobs (bus boy, waiter, you get the picture) and wrote - in English, not his first tongue - at night or whenever else he could. Oh, and you wont find a single bit of Hemon-related information that does not include a reference to Nabokov. Hemon is the new Nabokov, you see?<br />&quot;The Question of Bruno&quot; is made up of seven shortish short stories and one not-quite-a-novella. In &quot;The Sorge Spy Ring&quot; (an intensely irritating story to read, it has to be said, due to the huge number of footnotes), Hemon relates how - following reading a book on a charismatic WWII spy called Sorge - he started believing his own father was a spy. The footnotes act as a synopsis of the biography young Hemon read. Prior to the Sorge story, we hear about Alphonse Kauders, who knew Sorge. The Kauder story is funny. This seems to surprise people for whatever reason. You can hear them bubbling at fashionable parties. He comes from Sarajevo? Yes, and he's funny. The Alphonse Kauders story is funny like Vonnegut (funny like &quot;Hocus Pocus&quot;). Elsewhere - in &quot;Islands&quot;, in the lovely &quot;The Accordion&quot; - Hemon explores his past, his ancestry, his &quot;Hemonhood&quot;, the relation of Hemon(s) to the world and to history.<br />Some of the stories are good. Some of the stories are beautiful. All of the stories - even the irritating ones - show potential. That is the most important word. <br />Years from now, out back of some old pawnbroker's shop, this old guy will unearth this book (he'll have it wrapped up in cloth, buried at the bottom of a chest) and talk about the great potential young Hemon showed. Course, the old pawnbroker will know whether Hemon made good. That's the danger right now. Everybody says Hemon, Nabokov / Nabokov, Hemon. It's the kindof thing could go to your head if you let it. It's the kind of thing could spoil whatever comes next.<br />You should read &quot;The Question of Bruno&quot; because it's good. You should praise &quot;The Question of Bruno&quot; because it is brave and shows potential. <br />You should be hesitant - and excited - about whatever comes next, and you should read whatever he does next because - that's the test.	2000-11-06
US	49293614	R3V0Y2J4TTTAOW	0747549222	465835064	How It Ended	Books	3	8	11	N	N	Slighting the end	I don't know about you, but I find it quite hard to gauge the success of a collection of short stories. <br />I mean - I know quality when I see it. That 5-star Raymond Carver / William Trevor thing. The short stories that read like novels (the short stories with more oomph than half a dozen novels most times). I know what short stories can do. <br />(I've read Borges, you know? I know what short stories can do!)<br />The problem that short stories present (some) writers with is this: short stories, being slight of stature, can sometimes become a repository for ideas that will never be fleshed out into novels. Short stories can be the novels we would write if we had the time. <br />&quot;Smoke&quot; - one of the stories here - is, peculiarly, a good example of this. I say peculiarly because it features two characters from a McInerny novel (&quot;Brightness Falls&quot;). I don't know if &quot;Smoke&quot; led to &quot;Brightness Falls&quot; or vice versa, and one doesn't necessarily need the other but - crucial point this : if the novel came first, there isn't much point to the short story. It's very entertaining and everything but you read it and ask yourself so what?<br />Which isn't to knock this collection of stories particularly. Just to point out the curious feelings it can sometimes engender. <br />There are good stories here (&quot;Third Party&quot;, &quot;The Business&quot;, &quot;Reunion&quot;), okay stories (&quot;My Public Service&quot;, &quot;How it ended&quot;) and bad stories (&quot;Con Doctor&quot;, &quot;The Queen and I&quot;).<br />If you've read McInerny before, and liked what you've read, you should read this. There is good stuff here. You'll have a good time, for the most part. <br />If you haven't, don't start here. <br />Read &quot;Model Behaviour&quot; or the Gatsby-ish &quot;Last of the Savages&quot; instead. Read &quot;Brightness Falls&quot; or &quot;Bright Lights, Big City&quot;. Save &quot;How it ended&quot; for last (just to see how it ended).	2000-11-06
US	49293614	R15R6LNYC0O3WQ	0670891770	746289941	A Friend of the Earth	Books	4	6	8	N	N	What are you waiting for?	I've got a question for you. Have you ever read anything by Mister T. Coraghessan Boyle before? <br />If the answer is &quot;No&quot;, stop. Stop reading right now. Go buy the book. Go buy all of the books. What Salman Rushdie said about Ray Carver (&quot;Read everything Raymond Carver wrote&quot;), I say about T. Coraghessan. Go read everything. Start with &quot;Riven Rock&quot; (I did - it's a great introduction), then read &quot;The Tortilla Curtain&quot; and &quot;East is East&quot; (a samurai in a writer's village) and don't stop until you've blasted your way through &quot;World's End&quot;, &quot;Budding Prospects&quot; (the great lost Coen Brother's masterpiece that never was) and &quot;Water Music&quot; (which is sort of Merchant Ivory retold by Kurt Vonnegut). No joke. I mean it. Your life will be richer as a direct result of reading all of these novels. Read them all and then come back here.<br />You answered &quot;Yes&quot;. Great. Italicise that. We're old friends, already. I don't have to come over all John the Baptist on you. You know. You wouldn't be here otherwise. I can say the mighty T. Coraghessan, knowing you feel the same way (knowing that - if you read books at all, and you've read T. Coraghessan before - you'll probably have dipped into the aforementioned Ray Carver and Kurt Vonnegut along with maybe - ooooooh, where do we start -Richard Brautigan, Tom Robbins, John Fante, John Irving, Charles Bukowski and Jim Dodge thrown in for good measure). <br />It means I can let you down gently.<br />&quot;A Friend of the Earth&quot; is a sort of sci-fi eco-nightmare epic. Like &quot;Water Music&quot; or &quot;The Tortilla Curtain&quot; it pans backwards and forwards between two characters. Unlike &quot;Water Music&quot; and &quot;The Tortilla Curtain&quot;, those two characters are versions of the same guy, Tyrone O'Shaughnessy Tierwater (and don't you feel he's been waiting to use that name for years?). &quot;A Friend of the Earth&quot; is Boyle's take on Beckett's &quot;Krapp's Last Tape&quot; : you get a first-person Tierwater in 2025 and a third-person Tierwater over a period of eight years between July 1989 and December 1997. <br />The 2025 Tierwater is part of the &quot;young-old&quot; (which means he's ancient, but - because medicine has improved, and people are living way longer - not &quot;old-old&quot;). Along with a Mexican (Spanish? Hell, I don't know) guy called Chuy, he manages a menagerie of almost-extinct animals for the world-famous pop star, Maclovio Pulchris (or &quot;Mac&quot;). The world is a terrible place. The climate has gone crazy. If it isn't tied down, it'll blow away. You've got to expect floods and typhoons and sand storms every single hour of the day. What are you going to do? Into this world steps Andrea, his ex-wife. She wants Tierwater to tell his story. Their story. Sierra's story.<br />Pan back to the 1989 Tierwater. He's a flake with a kid, Sierra. His wife died from a wasp sting. He's had to raise his girl alone. Which he's done admirably. It's just he's bored. When the Earth Forever! flyer drops through his door - inviting him to some awareness-raising function - he's off like a shot. One fully-fledged eco-terrorist later, Tierwater is off engaging in all manner of no-good, Commie, dope-smoking, world-saving.<br />Which is fine. Great, even. Lots of fun. <br />It's just - I know you're asking me - there are only four stars up there instead of five, right? I have to explain that. This is not the best T. Coraghessan book there ever was. There is some indefinable minor chord at work here. I can't put my finger on it. If you asked me to explain what the problem is, I'd hold my hands up and say I don't know. Reading a T. Coraghessan novel is a joy (a pure pure joy, I mean it), but there were points - small quickly-passed points, but points all the same - when I checked to see how long a particular chapter was so that I knew how long before . . . uhm . . . things got going again. <br />At the same time, a good T. Coraghessan Boyle novel is head and shoulders above ninety-nine-point-nine other novels. So. Even though there are only four stars up there, it should be forty-four stars in comparison with other novels. <br />Just so you know.	2000-11-05
US	49293614	R2UFSWACX3YW03	0441007554	170689845	All Tomorrow's Parties	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Conversation in  a waterfall	You're having a conversation (or you're being talked at) by several people at once, not all of whom speak English as a first language. Sometimes you catch meaning in a lapse between one word and the next. Sometimes you don't understand at all. Parts of this conversation are just over your head. <br />On top of that, you're in a club. There are crowds of people all round you and a band playing on the stage. It's hard to make out what gets said over the sheer noise. You can't hold a conversation in a waterfall. <br />Now take a look down, beneath your feet. This is the strangest club you've ever been in. The dancefloor is an ice floe. Not only that : the pressure from the feet of all these people - the sweat from the bodies in this place - is making the ice melt. <br />You find that you're trying to understand what is being said to you and maintain balance on the rapidly fragmenting dancefloor beneath your feet. It won't be long before everybody disappears beneath the water, the rate that ice is melting, but nobody seems to care. <br />Everybody belongs here. The only stranger is you.<br />That's what it feels like. Reading William Gibson. This is what it feels like reading &quot;All Tomorrow's Parties&quot;. <br />Those people talking to you. <br />There's Laney, a sort of psychic techno-geek living in a box in a subway in Tokyo who sifts data all day long. He thinks he has become aware of a nodal point. A nodal point is a sort of cataclysmic event. The last nodal point occurred in 1911. Something to do with the Curies. Laney thinks the world is going to end.<br />Laney contacts Rydell and asks him to make his way to San Francisco, which he does, in the company of an alcoholic country singer called Buell Creedmore. Rydell follows Laney's instructions and intercepts a package that contains what looks like a thermos. Only the thermos isn't a thermos. It's a kind of projector. <br />People - enemies of Laney, enemies of Rydell - want Rydell dead. <br />Mix an old blackguy called Fontaine, a semi-autistic kid called Silencio and a former girlfriend called Chevette up in the brew and simmer until a mysterious shadowy killer in the employ of the bad guys but working out his own agenda appears and scratch your head. <br />It isn't that Gibson is a bad writer. He's a very good writer. Some of the prose here crackles like static electricity. It's just that - as a whole - &quot;All Tomorrow's Parties&quot; doesn't make a whole lot of sense. <br />Chapter to chapter, you can - for the most part - join the dots and figure out who's doing what. The problem arises when you try to work out the picture the dots make. The why. Why is any of this happening? What does any of this mean? Why should I continue to read? <br />At crucial points in the narrative, Gibson becomes abstract and elusive (in the same way that James Ellroy becomes abstract and elusive in the LA Quartet) : things are happening but it isn't clear what. <br />Like I said earlier : conversation in a waterfall. <br />Right there at the end of it all, Fontaine says &quot;probably ... never know what any of this was about, in terms of causality, though he's sure he's been a witness to something.&quot;	2000-10-25
US	49293614	RCGCMVW27EQEL	0375703764	383727435	House of Leaves	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Scooby Doo'llysses	The horror of horror stories (and by implication ghost stories, haunted house stories, creepy stories of any kind) pretty much starts to fade the instant anything definite gets said. If you hint at what the peculiar shapes made by the shadow in the corner of the room may mean, it's (possibly) terrifying. If you come all out and say, &quot;boo, look, it's a monster!&quot; It stops being scary. Monsters aren't scary. Nobody believes in book monsters (could be half to do with the fact that there are far enough monsters out there in the big bad world). <br />The trick to fear (book fear, at any rate) is - keep the rabbit in the hat. The rabbit only ever disappoints. Tell us you've got something in the hat. Go on about it if you have to. Lie if that's the best you can do (so it's a rabid, bionic, nuclear, fifty-foot high rabbit, then . . .). Just don't give the game away.<br />Danielewski has learned the trick, and &quot;House of Leaves&quot; is shadowplay atop shadowplay (an enormous shadowy black house that defies physical laws by existing within another perfectly ordinary suburban house). A horror story that obeys the fundamental laws of prestidigitation : obfuscation, sleight of hand, distraction. He doesn't even tell the story himself. (Hell, it isn't even a story, in the strictest definition of the word.) Johnny Truant - an LA tattoo dude - tells you about how he and his friend Lude discovered this manuscript in an old dead guy (Zampano)'s apartment. The manuscript tells you about this film - The Navidson Report - that Johnny Truant thinks doesn't even exist. <br />The film that the manuscript tells you about is made by Will Navidson, an award-winning photo-journalist. Navidson intended to make a documentary about family life. He bought a house. Stationed cameras roundabout. Recorded what followed. Only what followed wasn't what he expected. A door appears out of nowhere upon the living room wall (a living room wall that is flush with the outside world). You open the door and what do you see? Not the outside world, that's for sure. A ten foot black corridor. You follow the ten foot black corridor. Where does it go? Another longer corridor full of closed doors. You ignore the doors and follow the corridor. It leads you into a great hall. Through the great hall into a vast hall. Through the vast hall to a staircase that takes you eight hours to walk down. You're a little freaked out by now so you decide to make your way back. Only nothing is as it was when you first passed through. The stairs are only ten feet high. Doors have moved around. Corridors have moved, lengthened, shortened. The living room isn't where it was. The shape of everything changes and what is that sound? Sounds like a creature roaring back there somewhere. <br />The book itself doesn't keep shape : aside of the Braille, the 'lost' text (pages Johnny cannot find, pages Johnny spills ink on), burn-holes in the manuscript that obliterate letters and words, blood and claw marks, there are sentences that run across the gutter and fill two pages, words that are set diagonally at the page edge or compressed in small boxes (as the space within the house compresses). There is the now infamous 'labyrinth' chapter (footnotes in boxes, upside down, sideways, following page numbers, reversing page numbers). There are quotes in Italian, in German, in Spanish, in Latin, in Russian, in French. There are translations. The Zampano manuscript is a regular Babel (or rather, the razed foundations of a Babel, what's left after the end). <br />Only it isn't just the manuscript (or the film) you have to contend with. This is a book that has been edited to include emailed comments from characters involved in the action from after the second edition of the book (girls Johnny and Lude have slept with who don't approve of their inclusion). Navidson is filtered (if he's real) through Zampano (if he's real) through Truant, through an editorial team, through a publishing house, through the Internet. <br />It's neither either/or nor both/and. It's a new kind of game (on a very old board). Sort of : chess played on a Brancusi spiral with Giacometti figurines. Which for the most part is lots of crazy fun (you're reading, holding the book sideways on, turning everything upside down, reading 90 pages in about ten minutes). It's not perfect - parts of the 'Labyrinth' chapter are laborious, some of Zampano's extemporisation is plain boring and could have been cut (regardless of what Truant alleges, Dave Eggar-style in footnotes) and there are way too many footnotes - but, overall, by the time you (don't) get to the Scooby Doo-style unmasking, you've enjoyed the ride and - yes - seen genuinely unsettling things here.<br />You develop a kind of theory as to what the Book of Leaves is (leaves = pages = the book of books), which leads you to realise this isn't a horror story at all - it's a kind of skit (like Calvino's &quot;If on a Winter's Night, a Traveller&quot;). Not a trick, more a clever-clever (ab)use of genre. Which is fine. And entertaining. And different (which is cool).	2000-10-18
US	49293614	R2KFSHGRAX5RCT	0876855575	954748344	Ham On Rye	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Catcher in the Ham on Rye	First I wanted to know why he called it &quot;Ham on Rye&quot;. <br />I mean, I know that ham on rye is a sandwich but I figured that Henry Chinaski liked a drink and Henry Chinaski is Bukowski's &quot;literary alter-ego&quot; - which means Chinaski is Bukowski - and Bukowski was an alcoholic and alcoholics aren't that crazy about food (because, hey, why eat when you can drink?) so maybe it didn't mean sandwich. <br />I looked up the two words in a dictionary. Aside from the filling for a sandwich, ham is also the back of a pig. Rye can mean gentleman  (from the Romany word &quot;rai&quot;), or king (from the Sanskrit &quot;rajan&quot;). I felt clever then. &quot;Ham on Rye&quot;? King Pig. Gentleman Pig. That sort of makes sense. I like that. I didn't stop there, though. Rye is also a kind of grass used in the manufacture of whisky. Here we go, I thought. Whisky. That's more like it. Ham, too. Like Radio Ham. An actor who relies on stock phrases and gestures. An actor. Somebody who acts. A phoney. A phoney on whisky. That didn't make sense so much. Not the phoney part at any rate. <br />Thinking about phoney did the trick, though. Phoney = Holden Caulfield = &quot;Catcher in the Rye.&quot; <br />&quot;Ham on Rye&quot; and &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;. Both of them adolescent rites of passage. Sort of. <br />Got me thinking. It's been at least ten years since I read &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot;, so forgive me, but - if I remember correctly - catcher in the rye was Holden Caulfield's ideal job. The rye field on the edge of a cliff. Children playing, running through the rye. Holden there, at the edge of the rye and the cliff, saving the children (stopping them fall over the edge into experience or whatever it is down there). <br />If it was Chinaski in that field, those kids'd fall. He'd be boozing or reading. Those kids could fall off a cliff for all he cares. All those kids would probably hate him anyway. They'd all be the sort of kids who called him names whenhe was small. Chinaski would sit on the edge of the rye field, daydreaming about his teacher's skirt.              <br />&quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; is a book you read (and love? yeah, maybe) when you're sixteen, when you still believe in things, when chances are laid out like a hand of cards. You read &quot;Catcher in the Rye&quot; and you take it seriously. &quot;Ham on Rye&quot; is a book you read when you know a little more about life. You know life can be hard. Not all the time. Don't get me wrong. Life can be plenty great too. Just sometimes. Life can be hard. You don't always get what you want and it isn't always down to chance or fate or anything else. Sometimes life is tough through no fault of your own. Life can be beautiful (beautiful like a teachers's raised skirt? yeah, maybe), and life can be ugly (because, hey, it's always other people get the breaks, am I right or am I right?). <br />&quot;Ham on Rye&quot; knows it. Bukowski knows it. You know it. I know it. You find joy where you can. You find joy here.	2000-10-18
US	49293614	RS2N2PHHV20GL	0802116698	400458351	Asleep	Books	2	33	42	N	N	Where is my mind?	Okay so. I'm on a train, I'm on a bus, I'm on a plane. I'm in transit. For  &quot;transit&quot; read that time that exists outside of time. The time  between times. I'm neither in one place or another. I'm between zones.  Transit is the perfect place for Banana Yoshimoto, because I can't quite  make up my mind about her. <br />I liked &quot;Kitchen&quot; and I hated  &quot;Amrita&quot;. Just so you know where I'm coming from. I thought  &quot;Kitchen&quot; was intriguing in a Douglas Coupland-y way. I thought  &quot;Amrita&quot; was dull dull dull. &quot;Amrita&quot; was one of those  books you read where you spend half the time checking how much you've read  (am I half way yet? am I half way yet? does this book go on forever? you  get the message).<br />It could be a translation thing. What was it Shelley  said about translation? Something about how translation is like putting a  violet in a crucible? Something like that. <br />&quot;Asleep&quot; is funny.  Not funny haha. Funny peculiar.<br />Three shortish stories making up one  shortish book. Each story has its own characters. None of the characters  from one story decamp to another. Yet, there is a sense that you tread  similar ground three times here. There are dead people at the heart of the  book. Dead brothers. Dead lovers. Dead friends. Dead rivals. Living people  mistaken for ghosts. Mourning girls who walk through snow without noticing  the cold.    <br />It's kind of half &quot;Kitchen&quot; and half  &quot;Amrita&quot;. Parts of it are intriguing - in that parts of it  suggest there is more at work here than the casual unfolding of ordinary  lives - and parts of it feel bad. Parts of it feel badly written. Or badly  translated. Hard to tell. Certain passages read like excerpts from a  teenager's diary or a New Age self-help book. <br />&quot;Asleep&quot; is like  some weird kind of textual anemone : it draws you in, it knocks you back.  You want to praise the fragility of the emotion, you want to cursethe  blandness of the thoughts. <br />You get the impression that Banana enjoys  dreams, the significance of dreams, the roles that dreams play in life and  sleep. This is true in &quot;Kitchen&quot; and &quot;Amrita&quot; too.  Banana appears to enjoy using dreams as a function. Dreams tell you as much  about Banana Yoshimoto's characters as suits and ties do in HG Wells.  <br />There is contrivance here. Elaborate contrivance for little or no  effect. At one point - in the story &quot;Asleep&quot; - a character visits  a dwarf medium (&quot;Twin Peaks&quot; anyone?) to lay nagging doubts to  rest. The doubts are eased. And that's that. It is as if you have been  presented with an enormous velvet firework only to find the gunpowder is  damp. <br />There is no centre here. &quot;Asleep&quot; lacks heart or head or  a combination of the two. Something. <br />It's like the time spent in transit  I mentioned right at the start : you don't quite know where you are at any  given time and you don't quite remember what you passed through when you  arrive at your destination. You only wish you could have passed the journey  in a more satisfactory way.	2000-09-14
US	49293614	R12D6Z3OI2S5RS	0375402519	231777935	South of the Border, West of the Sun	Books	4	6	9	N	N	He aint tobacco	Imagine we're spies. You and I. Imagine we're spies in a story written by  Calvino. There's a rendezvous, down by the foggy dockside in the middle  hours of some wintry night. You're nervous. It feels like a trap. You've  not been given a lot of instructions and you feel weary. You know you're to  meet somebody and you've been told to expect some kind of package. In the  past, the packages have all been book-shaped. On this occasion, the package  slipped between your hands in the dark surprises you : it feels like a  bottle. You walk along the gang-planks, holding the package like a wrung  dishcloth. <br />Curiousity gets the better of you and you tear back the brown  paper and string. It is a bottle. The word &quot;Murakami&quot; is written  on the label. Nothing else. Just &quot;Murakami&quot;. <br />You've heard  about Murakami. You've been told Murakami never crumbles or flakes, that  he's never raw or overcooked. You been told that you wont find him stuck  between your teeth, like spinach, or lodged undigested in your colon like a  chunk of red meat. You've been told he ain't tobacco : you don't gotta bite  off a hunk and chew. <br />You unscrew the lid and swig. You drink Murakami.  He eases down your throat and leaves a warm glow in your belly. He's an  internal Ray Carver (cos Ray Carver is like a roaring fire in Winter, you  hold your snow-wet hands there and thrill at how weird and good it feels),  warming you from the inside out. Good whisky as opposed to Good Raymond.    At first, the taste is bitter and strong, like whisky. <br />The drink  conjures images : a man called Hajime, his childhood sweetheart Shomamoto,  his first girlfriend Izumi, his wife Yukiko, their children. There is  simplicity, deceptive simplicity. The whisky makes things clear. You  recognise these people and understand what it is they feel. Hajime loses  touch with Shomamoto, breaks Izumi's heart. You know that these things can  happen. You have lost touch with others. You have broken hearts. <br />You  feel intoxicated.<br />The more you drink, the less like whisky it tastes. The  flavour swirls around inside you, more smoke than liquid. You can't reduce  whatever it is your drinking down to its constituent parts. It isn't that  the images make less sense and more that you distantly perceive some  greater truth being brought to bear. Izumi's broken heart changes her life.  Hajime learns his wife, Yokiko, had a similar experience, attempted  suicide. The reappearance of Shomamoto draws Hajime down a path not taken,  down through a bottle neck. <br />You wonder if this is some kind of  meditation on karma. Some kind of love story. Some kind of mystery. Or  merely a trauma. Later, nursing an empty bottle in the harsher light of  day, you wonder if perhaps Hajime imagined a greater portion of the action,  if the story isn't in fact the story of a kind of breakdown. <br />Holding  that empty bottle, that read book, up to the light, you think about the  love you've seen here, the glow from the lamps and the moon, the sense of a  secret passed between people who know.	2000-09-06
US	49293614	R336RY8CMAQZR2	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	2	21	26	N	N	Maths that don't add up	There are some authors you can describe using an image. Oh, so-and-so is  like a such-and-such, you might say. Paul Auster, for example, would be an  abstract painting or a curious Chinese puzzle. Haruki Murakami would be an  underground tunnel, or a cat playing with a ball of string. John Irving  would be an overpacked holiday suitcase, the kind of thing you'd have to  sit on to close. Michael Ondaatje, like Philip Roth, would involve stone -  except, where Philip Roth would be busy constructing skyscrapers  (skyscrapers? rows of skyscrapers! cities!), Ondaatje would be polishing  pebbles. A Michael Ondaatje novel is like nothing so much as a pile of  highly polished pebbles. You take up the book and examine a stone - feel  its heft, hold it up to see how it catches the light. Turn the page,  another stone. It feels differently in your hand. You replace it where you  found it. It may be that you remove stones from the pile out of sequence  because the chronology is a little dazed. As you read on, there is a kind  of poetic accretion - to paraphrase Calvino, stratifications of rock, slabs  of slate, shivers of schist - that can (and has, in the past) work to  spellbinding effect. Torpid film aside, &quot;The English Patient&quot; is  a beautiful book.<br />&quot;Anil's Ghost&quot; is not a beautiful book. It  wasn't ever going to be, dealing as it does (for the most part) with Sri  Lankan civil conflict. That it lacks beauty is not a problem. That detail  and character and plot are obscure is. Anil, the real ghost at the centre  of the novel, is a forensic anthropologist (she can tell how a person died  from performing experiments on their skeleton) sent to Sri Lanka, the place  where she was born and raised, by a world aid organisation to investigate  the troubles. She has been living in America and conducting an affair with  a married man, a writer called Cullis. The affair is over. There is a sad  scene in a bedroom with a knife. She has a friend called Leaf whois dying  of AIDs in Mexico beside the satellite dishes that send signals into outer  space. <br />You learn enough about what Anil sets out to do in Sri Lanka -  discover the identity of a badly burned skeleton she believes belonged to  somebody murdered by the Government - to think that the identity of the  skeleton, and the search for the identity of the skeleton, are important.  From the outset, she is assisted by an archeologist called Sarath who she  isn't sure she can trust. Sarath has a brother called Gamini who is a  doctor. They don't get along. Gamini loved Sarath's late wife, wanted her  for himself. He finds comfort in the hectic hospital regimen. We get the  impression it is hard being a doctor, particularly in Sri Lanka,  particularly during intransigence. <br />By this point, however, it is hard  being a reader of &quot;Anil's Ghost&quot;. The identity of the skeleton is  disclosed but it feels like an afterthought. An irrelevancy. You step back  and examine Ondaatje's pile of stones to see what shape - if any - they  make, to see what this is all about. You move stones aside, unsure of how  they relate to each other, or if they relate to each other. You want to  grip whatever is at the centre of the book, but - paraphrasing Yeats - the  centre just wont hold (damn still). The novel is kaleidoscopic without  settling on what truly interests it : is it the character of Anil, is it  the troubles in Sri Lanka? <br />You are left with a random assortment of  smells and images straddling war photographs of a war you never heard about  involving people you never knew. You don't know what happened, you can't  tell good from bad, you don't know who to identify with or who to care  about. Ultimately the book fails because there comes a point when a desire  to understand becomes a frustrated appeal to make sense or compel. To just  plain do something. There is no doubting Ondaatje's genius as a poet (as a  certain kind of poet). He is a powerful wordsmith. Outside of poetry,  though, words are like maths : sentences make paragraphs, paragraphs make  chapters, chapters make sense. Ondaatje's maths just don't add up right.	2000-08-19
US	49293614	RG01YD38NT0AI	0684864967	389232995	Slab Rat: A Novel	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Tonight, Matthew, I'm going to be . . . Jay McInerny	Inescapable fact number one: Ted Heller is Joseph Heller's son. <br />A recent pre-publicity puff piece in the New York whatever suggested Ted was  a worthy successor to Joseph and - in &quot;SlabRat&quot; - had written a  debut as exhilerating as his Dad's &quot;Catch 22&quot;.<br />Inescapable fact  number two: &quot;SlabRat&quot; (Ted's debut) will be compared with  &quot;Catch 22&quot; (Dads's debut).<br />A slabrat is another name for the  joe who slugs it out every day in a cubicle in an office. Our slabrat - the  one we root for - is called Zachary Arlen Post. It's hard to root for  somebody called Zachary Arlen Post. Except that isn't his real name. It's  really Allen Zachary Post. He changed the first and second names around (he  uses the word &quot;switcheroo&quot; and you really hold it against him) to  get the ZAP monogram. It doesn't help.<br />To make it easier for us, Ted  gives us somebody much more unpleasant. Mark Larkin. An inky ginger Phillip  Seymour-Hoffman if ever there was one. Where Zachary - sorry, Zeke - treads  the middle ground, never quite failing, never quite succeeding, Mark Larkin  has the audacity to succeed. In spades. At the other end of the scale, you  have Willie Lister (a dead cert for Jack Black in what I now realise is  shaping up to be the indie hit of the year), a man who is on his way out.  Willie hates Mark. Zeke and Willie decide to kill Mark. Zeke sets Willie up  to take the fall. End of story.<br />Along the way, you get a Jay  McInerny-lite look at the publishing industry (already done much better by  . . .errrr . . . Jay McInerny in &quot;Brightness Falls&quot;), a Jay  McInerny-ish look at relationships (unfortunately already done much better  by . . . errrr . . . Jay McInerny in &quot;Model Behaviour&quot;) and a Jay  McInerny-esque take on work and going out (&quot;Bright lights, big  city&quot; okay?).<br />The cruel irony is that the whole situation is  something of a Catch 22 itself : if Ted wasn't Joseph's son, he might get  better reviews BUT if Ted wasn't Joseph's son, he might not be published at  all. Tough at the top, huh?	2000-08-02
US	49293614	RT6HHV7N5QRSG	0802135854	487867901	Stone Junction	Books	4	14	15	N	N	You'll get the wrong idea	If I tell you about road trips, CIA assassins, secret organisations and faulty bombs, you'll get the wrong idea. Let's face it, if I tell you  &quot;this is a story about . . .&quot;(whatever), I'm steering you wrong.  You'll get the wrong idea. Because, alongside the road trips and the faulty  bombs, you've got spherical diamonds, alchemists, poker, group sex, pirate  DJs, Vietnam vets searching for Death, houseboats, insane women with  imaginary children, religious visions, delirious rats eating horses and a  man who talks to his silver hand. You can't do justice to a Jim Dodge novel  without the aid of diagrams, semaphore, hard whisky and drugs smoked in an  oven-baked clay pipe. Ideally, you need to be sat outside a tepee in the  middle of a desert at night watching the stars and thinking about how  difficult it is to really understand anything (man). <br />Ostensibly, this is  a book about Daniel Pearse. When his mother is killed planting a  diversionary bomb to help her boyfriend Shamus steal plutonium (see what I  told you?), Daniel is introduced to the AMO. What the AMO is depends on who  you are. Different people tell it different ways. Let's say it stands for  alchemists, magicians and outlaws. That's pretty close. AMO arrange for  Daniel to learn all of the important lessons : farming dope, safe-cracking,  poker, meditation and the art of disguise. He also learns how to disappear  and remain invisible. Daniel employs these skills to find his mother's  killer and steal the spherical diamond I told you about before. As you do.  <br />The whys and wherefores are less important than the hows. You know when  lightning strikes, that pure blue electrical fuzz that sounds like aspirins  in a glass of water and looks like cut telegraph wire in the rain? Jim  Dodge writes like that pure blue electric fuzz. He fair knocks you off your  feet and turns your hair white. &quot;Stone Junction&quot; is like Edward  Hopper doing Hieronymous Bosch. It's &quot;The Karate Kid&quot; meets  &quot;Vanishing Point&quot;. Barry Gifford doing Richard Brautigan. Rothko  painting &quot;Guernica&quot;. You're in a world of impersonations and  sleight of hand. It's a novel made up of people sawn in half by magicians  and swallowed by fish. It's a novel about disappearing and the effects of  speed-spiked maple pancakes. It's like Brad Dourif in &quot;Wise  Blood&quot;. Homer's &quot;Odyssey&quot; after a good kicking from Ken  Kesey and Mark Twain.<br />In Big Star's &quot;13&quot;, Alex Chilton asks  &quot;Would you be an outlaw for my love?&quot; It's one of the big  questions. This is the kind of book that makes you want to say yes, and  keep on saying yes.	2000-08-02
US	49293614	R3JAY0IDD8750B	0684863472	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work Of Staggering Genius : A Memoir Based on a True Story	Books	5	6	10	N	N	You can judge a book by its title	&quot;A&quot; : A book. To begin with. Just a book. We'll get over it. A memoir (the author's parents died within 5 months of each other, of cancer). About how the author - Dave - had to raise his nine year old  brother Toph (short for Christopher, pronounced - I think - like the first  syllable in Tofu) alone. <br />&quot;Heartbreaking&quot; : Dave (you call him  Dave, in your head, as you're reading - in the future we wont use surnames  when we talk about great authors, it'll be Dave-this and  Zadie-that)suggests you only read the first 109 pages. That's the good  stuff, he says. He describes watching Gladiators while his cancerous  couch-ridden mother has a nose bleed that wont stop. Reading about death is  like eating off-sorbet (you eat a little to check, you look away, you eat a  little more, is it off? I think it is, you eat a little more, you're not  feeling so good). It is too much. The pages decay between your fingers. It  is TOO much. <br />&quot;Work&quot; : You might think - even if the writing is  as good as I'm going to tell you it is - that is not the kind of book I  want to read. You may have read Rick Moody's (brilliant) book &quot;Purple  America&quot; and had your fill of cancerous parents and dysfunctional  post-nuclear families. You might have read &quot;The Diving Bell and the  Butterfly&quot; (another great book) and think : I've done painful memoir.  Sounds a little bit like hard work to me. <br />&quot;Of&quot; : Useful  preposition. Used to link one idea with another. Interesting, if you  juxtapose two things in a cool way. Take a book about death and surviving  and make it funny, for example. Again, you might not think that is such a  big deal (Woody Allen's been doing that for  years).<br />&quot;Staggering&quot; : What makes the book so (I'm tempted to  leave this space blank for your own superlative, like Lawrence Sterne : I  figure it's either &quot;bright&quot;, &quot;clever&quot;,  &quot;enjoyable&quot; or &quot;good&quot;, &quot;good&quot; the way John  Travolta might say it) is what he combines the heartbreak with. Brace  yourself. It's a meta-text. I know. Metatextuality is old. He has let the  reader know he is writing as book. He knows we know he knows. How clever.  The thing about meta-books is they all abide by strict rules.<br />1. The  author thinks he is clever (which means the author thinks he is cleverer  than you, stand up David Foster Wallace to your shame). 2. The author has  problems engaging with the reader (because let's face it, the jokes are  there to leaven the seriousness, to appear engaging in the face of that  which worries you). 3. The author is young and brilliant and sexy and  with-it and rich and - all of the things you are not. Which you don't need  to be told (especially with you having shelled out money on the thing in  the first place).<br />Dave gets it just right, though. He's &quot;Alfie&quot;  and John Cusack in &quot;High Fidelity&quot; and Ferris Bueller rolled into  one. You like him. For all his faults. In the preface he offers to split  part of his advance with the first 200 readers who contact him with proof  of having read the book. He offers tips on how to read the book (skip the  preface, skip everything after page 109). He tells you he hates memoirs.  (He says, I'm not Irish and I'm not over seventy, I shouldn't be writing a  memoir.)It's funny. Laugh out loud funny. Dave gives good  gag.<br />&quot;Genius&quot; is a word that gets bandied about all too often  these days. (We live in a world of &quot;intelligent&quot; football after  all.) The thing is this. Unlike, say, Aleksander Hemon's book &quot;The  Question of Bruno&quot; (which shows promise but was hugely overpraised -  &quot;he's the new Nabokov!&quot;, &quot;the new Borges!&quot;, he's  GOD!&quot;), Eggers book is a great book. Great like Zadie Smith's  &quot;White Teeth&quot; is a great book. Not great as in large. Not great  as in really good (although it is). Great as in likely to beremembered,  likely to be read again, likely to be the start of a career you will  follow. Genius, then.	2000-06-24
