US	49294458	R3VSH96W2LQHVE	0198661320	776788003	The Oxford Companion to Philosophy	Books	4	87	95	N	N	a good introduction, but be wary of the assumptions	Although I agree that there is much valuable information in this work, it should also be noted that this reference work is an artifact and an outgrowth of the context from which it arose. Specifically, this work is the product of the type of philosophical inquiry promulgated by those who contributed to it (see partial list of contributors above), and thus, many of the entries found in this work can be traced to the now receding tradition of Oxford philosophy that rested on the foundations of logical positivism and linguistic analysis. Consequently, definitions such as the one for \\"synthetic a priori judgments\\" traced back to Kant are treated from a perspective endemic to analytic philosophy in which the concept is treated as if it were put forth as a proposition when, in reality, Kant made no such appeal to propositional values in and of themselves, but was concerned with the nature of human knowledge and reality itself. Being cognizant of the analytic bent of this reference reveals that the source of the error cited lies in the fundamental misunderstanding of philosophers enamored by linguistic analysis who imposed this interpretation on the work of Kant to support their own (philosophers such as J.L Austin, Wittgenstein, Gilbert Ryle and Geoffrey Warnock) common point of view.<br />Another telling example of the inherent philosophical bias presented in this work can be found in the definition of philosophy itself. In the opening paragraph of this entry philosophy is defined as \\"thinking about thinking,\\" which is congruent with the way that Oxford philosophers had attempted to define it, despite a tradition of over 2,000 years in which understanding the nature of reality--in all of its variated and complex manifestations--was viewed as the central philosophical problem pursued by the pre-Socratics, Plato, Aristotle, Descartes, Kant and the British Empiricists to Hegel, Heidegger, Nietzsche and Sartre, representing an unbroken tradition of thought to this day.<br />Being aware of the subjective nature of a text such as this illustrates the truism that all texts are inherently and necessarily products of the minds that create them, and even texts that purport to be merely informational and introductory carry within them certain prescribed notions and ways of presenting knowledge, which can have serious ramifications on the understanding of the information presented itself. Thus, with this work, as it is with all philosophical texts, one should not merely accept the statements presented within as objectively true or valid, but use them as fertile points of departure for critical thinking, meditation and further investigation; that is where the true value of this work lies.ware of the subjective nature of a text such as this illustrates the truism that all texts are inherently and necessarily products of the minds that create them, and even texts that purport to be merely informational and introductory carry within them certain prescribed notions and ways of presenting knowledge, which can have serious ramifications on the understanding of the information presented itself. Thus, with this work, as it is with all philosophical texts, one should not merely accept the statements presented within as objectively true or valid, but use them as fertile points of departure for critical thinking, meditation and further investigation; that is where the true value of this work lies.	2005-01-03
US	49294458	R17K3Y8HCOXOWF	0893816949	479239124	Diane Arbus: Monograph (Aperture Monograph)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Seeing beauty and the beauty of seeing	When we see flaws in others, why is it so hard to look away? Does it make us feel somehow better about ourselves? Maybe that is the case for some, but not Diane Arbus. What her photography attempts to convey is that beauty can be found, even in the most unexpected of places. Although, her ideal of beauty isn't the kind that compels people to go to a plastic surgeon to make themselves &quot;pretty&quot;, or more pleasing to the eyes of other, it is nonetheless valid because it goes much deeper than the hollow image that beauty has become in contemporary society to many. Indeed, just one look at her work will illustrate that as she simply prefers the common people who are found everywhere from suburban lawns to skid rows, strip clubs to asylums, dance halls to darkened rooms. Perhaps, most important to her vision is that these people have flaws, just as everyone does and it is precisely these &quot;flaws&quot; that attracted Arbus' to the subjects portrayed in this collection.<BR>Although many of her subjects inhabit places that many of us would rather avoid, often coming to us in nightmares from which we struggle to awaken, by the snapping of the shutter somehow they are made real to us, safe, unassuming and even fragile. Looking, for instance, at a photograph entitled &quot;Russian midget friends in a living room on 100th st, NYC&quot; my initial thoughts are flooded by a kind of morbid curiosity, but then as I continue to gaze and I notice their, eyes and faces, their expressions, and their willingness to share their lives with us; yes we, the same people who so often greets them with cold stares and cruel words. Diane Arbus was able to see the beauty in that kind of courage, a kind that would make many of us shudder, and her photos reveals to us the brilliance of it. Like a flower sprouting from the mire and destruction of a battlefield, Arbus' photography hits us hard, but leaves no bruises. Hers are images that when viewing for only a moment, we will remember for years. <BR>Through her depictions of dwarfs, giants, drag queens, nudists, crying children, transvestites, lonely women, weathered faces and mental patients, we are reminded that beauty can often be found where it is least expected. But this is not the beauty of celebrity or fame, perfection or contriviality, but that found in their shadows, in the dark and hidden places that exist everywhere and at all times. Through her daring and revolutionary work Arbus struggled to teach us how to see this often tortured beauty, and I think above all else her work accomplishes that, but only if we open our eyes and our minds and let that beauty in.	2004-06-09
US	49294458	R1BIEDE0KIQVKM	187882516X	76846950	The Chomsky Quartet (The Real Story Series)	Books	5	31	32	N	N	Great introduction to Chomsky's Political Thought	Recently, he has published several books concerning the threat of international terrorism and America's various involvements in fighting it. Now more than ever, in this period of increased repression, opions like Chomsky's need to be expressed. Noam Chomsky is arguably one of the most important thinkers of the last 100 years (he was voted 9th all time in a recent poll of college professors and academicians, just behind Aristotle).So why have most Americans never heard of him? Read this set of books and the answer will be quite clear. In Europe practically every educated person knows this American philosopher by name, but here in America the rich and powerful would rather that you did not.<br />In this selection of four accessible volumes, Chomsky exposes the dark side of American history and the forces most often behind it. Backed with incontrovertible facts and extensive research these books systematically detail the crimes of the corporate/military industrial complex in a way accessible to those not yet familiar with his more complex and expanded works. In these volumes Chomsky provides an overview and analysis of the hidden agendas and backroom dealmaking behind everything from NAFTA, Desert Strom, The War on Drugs, Corporate Media Manipulation, our present situation in the Middle East and much, much more. <br />These books will fill you with sadness, outrage and even hope. But, after reading them your outlook on America will never be the same. This book is not an attack against America and Americans, it is instead a warning against the hidden powers that are attempting to destroy the most basic ideas of freedom itself. In writing these books, he has both provided some much needed historical balance, and provided some suggestions and ideas concerning how we, the average citizens, can achieve real social change. Chomsky also provides a list of resources and info about getting involved with an exhaustive list of organizations that are \\"working to make the world a better place\\". In the end, all these books can do is inform and educate, it is up to each individual to do what they can for real social change; a book is only the beginning.	2003-03-24
US	49294458	RBVU5JHW021A3	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	29	30	N	N	History, Conspiracy and Men in Small Rooms	On the surface Libra is a novel about the history of the assassination of President John Kennedy and an insightful narrative about the man who is said to have pulled the trigger: Lee Harvey Oswald. But as with all such histories, the seemingly clear surfaces merely reflects the latest scriblings on what is really a deeply inscribed palimpist of human chronicle. Based on years of painstaking research and written from the perspective of a CIA historian assigned to produce a complete and secret history of the event, Don Delillo presents an intimate look at the man who has since become the symbol for America's shattered dreams and the subject of countless conspiracy theory scenarios. In so doing Delillo produces an image of Oswald that attempts to transcend the simplistic tropes to which he has been so often cast and, instead, represent Oswald as he really was: a lonely, impressionable, self-contradictory young man with a identity fractured by modernity.<br /> In Libra, Oswald is not only the small meek looking man gunned down by Jack Ruby as a stunned nation was instantaneously transformed into subjects of the media panopticon, but also a dedicated Marxist, a US Marine, a husband, father and son. Thus, he gets what most assassins do not: a human face, if not a multitude of them. As the story progresses, Oswald's multiplicitous character is transformed and molded from \\"mere pocket litter\\", a \\"cardboard cutout\\" into a ready-made villain of a fading American ideal. How this transformation is accomplished, rather than the result of Oswald's actions, is really what Delillo is trying to fide an answer for. Whether or not he succeeds in discovering this depends upon the value that is given to history in modern society, and the implicit logic that this type of epistemological inquiry anticipates. <br /> In Libra history is not simply an objective accounting of human accomplishment and action, but something constructed by men in small rooms. Libra is about understanding the influence of the apathetic forces of chance, randomness and cosmic disorder, which are then transformed into simplistic narratives that allow us all to sleep at night. <br /> Libra is a book for anyone who wonders about the substance of American history and the ways in which this substance is created. It is a novel that throws into question many of our most cherished truths, one that requires the re-examination of the notions of human agency, identity, fate and ultimate nature of our postmodern reality. A great novel that offers many insightful answers as well as being a highly readable and engaging work of contemporary American fiction.	2002-08-08
US	49294458	R22L4JVYHKQFT2	0679728732	28318315	Outer Dark	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Outer Dark Relected from Within	Cormac McCarthy excels as an author in his ability to evoke the violent terror and primal corruption that lies just beneath the banal facade of common human experience. Outer Dark is at once ominous, brooding and powerful. It has all the features of the finest and most perverse Greek tragedies,  combined with the tacit nihilism of the postmodern condition, in which the concepts of original sin, retribution and guilt have their own redoubled semantic.The story itself has been manifested in varying forms in written literature for ages and finds a correlate in ancient Greek, Biblical and Medieval mythico-religious themes.<br />It seems also that Outer Dark bears some connection to the literary tradition of Southern Gothic and has more than a slight affinity to the work of William Faulkner and Flannery O'Connor. In addition this book would be especially appreciated by fans of McCarthy's earlier works such as Child of God, Suttree, The Orchard Keeper and his violent historigraphic masterpiece Blood Meridian.<br />Both in substance and form this book is a beautiful, yet disturbing literary accomplishment, one that succeeds in merging the depravity and horror of human emotions with the elegance and sublimity of humanity's highest artistic achievement.	2002-08-06
US	49294458	RLY0Y16MB8SUB	0896084442	685142298	Year 501: The Conquest Continues	Books	5	5	11	N	N	500 Years of Domination and Still Going Strong	Year 501 is a much needed antidote to the heaps of white-washed history and biased narrative produced on the past. In this vitally important work esteemed scholar and political activist Noam Chomsky, using the 500th anniversary of Columbus' washing ashore on Hispanola, dissects the history of the most serious and sustained campaigns of annihilation that the world has ever known. In these 500 plus years the indigenous populations of the Americas have have been reduced by over 90% and based on even the most conservative estimates this amounts to a population decline in the contiguous US alone of 18 million at their pre-Columbian levels to only 200,000 by 1910. This unprescedented figure speaks volumes on its own, the important thing that Chomsky offers in Year 501, however, is in his reasoned explanation of it. He does not simply focus on the actions of the europeans, instead he attempts to analyze the reasoning that sought to justify it, which as is still the casee today was/is almost exclusively driven by financial motives. And as one can see by the commonly insipid and wholly ad hominem criticisms heaped upon Noam Chomsky these facts cannot be logically refuted, for those selfsame critics are unable, no unwilling, to confront the true face of the devastation that colonialism has wrought.   Although, it has long been in fashion to willing and knowingly distort and suppress these \\"distastful\\" facts, as one Harvard historian has referred to them, what this refusal to confront the legacy of colonialism amounts to is precisely what Chomsky calls the \\"murder of history\\" in this work. Chomsky is known for his intellectual prowess and reasoned expositions in the face of such illogic, to wit someone at the NY Times (not a bastion of liberalism by any stretch of the imagination)even ranked him as the 9th most important intellectual of all time, just behind Aristotle. After reading this excellent work of history you will see why. Year 501 is a must read for anyone who desiresto understand the true history of the colonial enterprise and the excessive human costs which continue to support it.	2002-08-04
US	49294458	R28DYABBXU7D1P	0936756764	518618098	T.A.Z. the Temporary Autonomous Zone, Ontological Anarchy, Poetic Terrorism (New Autonomy Series)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Truly a Dangerous Book	The work of Hakim Bey is well-known in that other american world, the &quot;underground&quot; society, the one of subculture, silent resistance and anarchy. But slowly it has been bubbling to the surface, often in unexpected places. The novel and film Fight Club, surely shows an affection for poetic terrorism, an idea rooted in Bey's ontological anarchism and closely related to the situationist tactic of detornement. T.A.Z. is not the property of any philosophy but chaos and elegant disorder. Sure, there are aspects of anarchism, chaos thinking, situationist leanings, but that is just a symptom of the spectacle and is such precisely because of it. These essays all point to a way out of this spectacular society, but the first step comes with the mere recognition of it. This is harder than it sounds, or perhaps easier.  TV and the media are always easy components to recognize, the real challenge is to recognize how the spectacle, i.e., the prefabricated, artificial, consumerist milieu penetrates, influences and shapes even our most intimate thoughts--which we often mistake for our own desires, wants and needs. In T.A.Z. Bey offers suggestions on how we can extricate ourselves from this structure and start creating our own temporary autonomous zones, within this system of economic, social and cultural oppression. Immediatism, Poetic Terrorism, and the embrace of Chaos are just a few of the strategies that he advises, all of which presuppose a new dialectic with reality. <br />This is only an outline, a mere review, I leave discerning and interpreting the details to you...Get this book today (also available in spoken word from axiom records).	2002-08-02
US	49294458	R2UGXMQBOFJKEI	1583224939	480932076	Terrorism and War (Open Media Series)	Books	5	24	27	N	N	A Voice for Peace	Zinn's latest collection of writings--a selection of interviews collected after 9-11--is an important expression of protest against the unjust and illegal war carried out against civilians. Using the the bombing of Afghanistan as its basis, this book examines the consequences and realities of a war supposedly directed against terrorism, which has left thousands of innocent civilians dead and transformed hundreds of thousands into homeless, starving refugees. While some, perhaps even many, would argue that these effects are simply the tragic, yet unintended, consequences of modern war. Tragic it certainly is, but as Zinn shows, the civilian deaths are of little concern to the US military and their allies, who glory in the use of so-called \\"smart bombs\\" that seem to be continually missing their \\"targets\\". Colin Powell has said in response to the question concerning the number of Iraqi dead during the Gulf War that \\"it's really not a number I'm terribly interested in\\", which shows little has changed since his involvement as an advisor during the Vietnam war. In fact, the bombing of civilian targets has been the preferred method of \\"breaking\\" the enemy spirit and dates back to at least World War Two and the carpet bombing of Dresden, Tokyo and Hiroshima. Thus the continuing use of this tactic from Vietnam, Iraq and now Afghanistan is based on the same indefensible, immoral logic.<br />It is also interesting to note, as Zinn does, that this tactic embodies the same unconscionable actions we pretend to abhor and is itself a form of state terrorism. In addition to exposing the real nature of our war against terror, he also critically examines the reasoning put forth by our politicians and military leaders. Perhaps, more importantly, though, he directs our attention to the fact that so many simply believe these explanations at their word, and care little to investigate the merits of these policies, which have really devastating effects on many people around the world. Of course, as Zinn points out, the media isn't really doing anything to promote this kind of critical inquiry, they are doing precisely the opposite, which doesn't excuse us for not seeking out the facts that are out there, but may be a little more difficult to find. This book, for example is a fine place to start, in addition to the numerous alternative media outlets that constantly report on these issues. Ultimately, the final responsibility rests with us and as Zinn points out it is only through broad political and social involvement that real change can be achieved.	2002-08-01
US	49294458	R39ROQ0CDSE0KZ	0939682036	115137231	Public Secrets: Collected Skirmishes of Ken Knabb	Books	5	20	22	N	N	The Self-Overcoming of the Spectacle	Public Secrets is a great book for those desiring to learn more about situationist philosophy, from the leading American authority on the subject: Ken Knabb. The book is divided into three sections under the headings, \\"The Joy of Revolution\\", \\"Confessions of a Mild-Mannered Enemy of the State\\", and a final collection of \\"Previous Publications.\\"<br />In the first section, Knabb gives an in depth discussion on leftist politics, delineating the many distinctions between what is commonly known as communism, socialism, Marxism and anarchism vis a vis the body of work of situationist writers mainly working in France. Implicit in this critique is the overarching contention that capitalism is an historical failure-one that has only exacerbated and cultivated the type of social disarray that has become a common feature in Western society. The crucial difference that Knabb identifies between these competing philosophies is the ultimate teleology of their progammes and the way in which it can be brought to fruition. This section also provides a much needed introduction to the situationist movement for American readers. Knabb gives a brief overview of the evolution situationist thought in France from its roots in surrealist aesthetics, the importance of Debord's groundbreaking work \\"Society of the Spectacle\\" to the Situationist International's role in the social upheaval and near revolution of May 1968.  <br />Next, Knabb describes his personal transformation from that of a typical American boy into revolutionary thinker.  This section details his \\"conversion\\" to atheism, his early development as a thinker at Shimer College and his eventual relocation to the West coast, all of which played a critical role in his development into the leading situationist scholar in the US. These memoirs are also remarkable for their intimate and revealing account of the sixties dissident experience, which offers many valuable lessons concerning the organization and methodologies of radical activism for those following the same path today. Knabb's confessions are particularly evocative in that they bridge the gap between the activism of the sixties and the radicals of today who often struggle in a milieu of cultural cynicism, often wrought with intense personal and social alienation. By analyzing his own development as a thinker Knabb gives some great insights into the sources of what some have called the culture of excess and the concomitant loss of community that results. More importantly, perhaps, Knabb points to some effective ways by which people can extricate themselves from this consumerist abyss and take control of our own lives. Thus, far from being a chronicle of a dissident, Knabb's confessions offer an insightful critique of capitalist structures, while offering some provocative suggestions about how we can effectively resist, subvert and overcome the simulated, marketed, prefabricated society of emptiness that laissez-faire economics presupposes.<br />The final section contains all of Knabb's previous writings as well as important translations of the work of other situationist theorists. These brief essays, flyers and articles are a great sampling of the situationist oeuvre beginning with Knabb's 1970 disruption of a poetry reading given by Gary Snyder to the media spectacle of the Gulf War. In particular, Knabb reproduces several comics that express the important situationist concept of detournement, which is the \\"tactic of diverting [highjacking] cultural fragments to new subversive uses.\\" Included among these are translations and selections of work by Jean-Pierre Voyer, Daniel Denevert, Jeanne Charles, Jean-Louis Moinet, as well as the many articles disseminated through Knabb's Bureau of Public Secrets, much of which has never before available in book form. All in all, this volume is a wide-ranging collection situationist writings and would be a fine addition to any radical's bookcase. But of course, this book is most valuable in so far as it represents a vehicle of intellectual stimulation, with the implicit goal of stirring others to active participation in the important struggles of today...	2002-07-29
US	49294458	R3UTVV0YZ6IKDG	0679776192	524015341	Tao Te Ching, 25th-Anniversary Edition (English and Mandarin Chinese Edition)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Stirring Words To Live By	While most religious writings claim to promote peace, happiness, charity and respect for nature, Lao Tsu's Tao Te Ching does so elegantly and unequivocally. With the Tao, one does not have to perform intellectual gymnastics to resolve the myriad of contradictions inherent in the teachings of the major monotheistic religions of Judaism, Christianity or Islam; its message is gracefully articulated and as explicit as it is sublime. For as the Tao says:<BR>What is firmly established cannot be uprooted.<BR>What is firmly grasped cannot slip away.<BR>It will be honored from generation to generation.<br />I have read many different translations of this book including Mitchell's, Cleary's, and Needleman's and while all have their own particular merits, Gia-Fu Feng's is for me the best. It should be said that I am not basing this opinion on any deep knowledge of the Chinese language, only my own intuitive feeling that the text evokes and the subtle effect of the words in my mind. Free of commentary, but accompanied by enchanting images of the natural world, this edition conveys the finest expression of the most immanent sense of the Tao. Although the Tao can be read in an hour, it is a work that is replete with a vibrancy that reveals more with each reading. The Tao is truly a set of precepts to be contemplated best while alone in wild nature, in fact it promotes and cultivates just such a dialectic between humanity and the natural environment-one which we have been deprived of for far too long and must recover. The Tao provides one possible path it is up to us however to choose it.  <br />Before receiving<BR>There must be giving.<br />This is called perception of the nature of things.	2002-07-29
US	49294458	R233ONG3KK1P21	0877226288	469567208	Environmental Ethics: Duties to and Values in The Natural World	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Ethics for the New Millennium	Environmental Ethics, by Holmes Rolston III, represents one of the most thorough and provocative works in the field of environmental philosophy to date. In addressing the essential question of the intrinsic value of the natural world Rolston is laying the groundwork for a new understanding of humanity's place in the world. Beginning with the simple premise of responsibility, Rolston argues that it is the duty of all humans by virtue of our existence as reasoning beings to protect and conserve the biodiversity and environmental health of the plant. This vital responsibility is intended to inform, not only for our relationship to the world vis a vis own consumptive needs, but in a way that enriches the existential potential of, not only all other forms of life, but the nonsentient ecosystem as well, i.e., mountains, sky, rivers, oceans, earth and rock.<br />The importance of this kind of radical subjectivity is that it represents the necessary acknowledgement of the interconnectivity of all being. You may be asking yourself, but what does this mean to me as an individual, and why should I care about deforestation taking place in a remote part of the world?  The answer Rolston, puts forth is both complex and elegant, in which he argues that the individual values of nature cannot be isolated, due to the inherent connectivity, in a simple pragmatic approach to life. Because since the earth is one great system of interrelationships, with all of the individual constituents relying upon the others in order to function. Thus, if one part is disturbed or destroyed, for example the elimination of predators such as wolves and bears in a forest, there are serious repercussions that will eventually effect the entire ecosystem from, from the overpopulation of deer, increased spread of disease, loss of habitat due to overgrazing, which results in increased starvation of wildlife and the eventual loss of biotic diversity.  These are things that are not apparent at a glance, nonetheless they do represent some of the most serious problems facing the health of the Earth, and it is precisely these nondescript consequences that makes understanding these relationships so important.<br />In Environmental Ethics, Rolston puts forth a new ethical paradigm that responds to this void in our consciousness. By illustrating the vital importance and necessary interplay between of all aspects of nature, and the aesthetic, economic, religious, recreational, scientific, historical, cultural and dialectical values that nature represents for humans this book offers many important insights useful to addressing today's environmental crisis.	2002-07-27
US	49294458	R1VIUCAOHL1EB4	0452269806	359387335	The Age of Missing Information (Plume)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Deconstructing TV and the Loss of the Natural World	If you became stranded in the wilderness could you build a fire without the aid of matches or a lighter? If your car breaks down can you fix it? Could you build a house or even a cabin? Do you have the necessary knowledge to grow a garden or recognize the difference between Nightshade and Snake Root? Fifty years ago the capacities required to carry out these tasks was common for many, but in today's age of technology many of the information required to carry out these tasks is considered by many to be nothing more than outmoded folk-knowledge, as trivia of a time long past. <BR>However, the bits of knowledge that are required to carry out these ostensibly simple activities, McKibben argues, represent just a sampling of the vast storehouse of knowledge that humans, particularly those in industrial societies, have been losing since the advent of television and the dawning of what has become known as \\"the age of information.\\"<br />In this enlightening book McKibben examines whether this \\"age of information\\" is indeed a manifest feature of modern society and calls into question whether or not that which is transmited to us through television is useful information at all. In an attempt to answer this difficult question he carries out a substantial experiment whereby he compares a full day of cable television programming-all 24 hours of all 93 channels-in Fairfax, Virginia, to 24 hours spent camping alone atop a mountain in the Adriondacks. <br />In so doing McKibben illustrates the considerable limitations of the media as a conduit for useful information, which is, paradoxically, a symptom and result of the very feature that makes it so appealing to so many: its seemingly endless variety. The consequences of such an overload of information that tv represents is its implicit resistance to continuity as it represents an endless stream of unconnected and disparate bits of information. This may be a good thing for advertisers and corporations that want you to buy their products or quickly forget the latest scandals, but it is decidedly dysfunctional to the acquisition of useful knowledge, which is precisely the point that Mckibben is trying to make against the conventional wisdom of most. The outcome of this type of hyper-structure has far reaching affects on our society and contributes significantly to the increasing loss of community that has been a feature of America since the late fifties and early sixties. As Mckibben ponts put, the result of this more mobile, individually patterned society has only been achieved at the cost of the corresponding human estrangement from nature and our place within the biospheric community, which as we have seen has serious consequences, not only for Americans, but, for all humanity.<br />The Age of Missing Information is an important book that calls for the attention of anyone concerned with the disintegrating state of the environment and corollary loss of community that has resulted from this alienation. For those who are concerned about these mounting problems McKibbens book will surely invoke a reevaluation of the image of television in our society and the type of viewer/consumer it openly seeks to create. But, most importantly this book brings attention to the often extreme sacrifices that are made and the high costs of this media addiction.<BR>---Hayduke66	2002-07-25
US	49294458	R2YNNI8UDZ4U8	1558850600	680563008	The Account: Alvar Nunez Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion (Recovering the Us Hispanic Literary Heritage)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A Sensational Human Adventure	In 1527 Cabeza de Vaca was sailing to the \\"New World\\" with a Spanish expedition of conquest. As his ship ran aground in rough seas off the coast of Florida strife erupted and his detachment was abandoned, 300 Spaniards in all. Eight years later Cabeza de Vaca and two other Spaniards arrived in Culiacan--the northern most Spanish settlement in Mexico--more than 6,000 miles from their starting point. This book is their harrowing story. <br />If one considered only the duration of the trip and the circumstances under which it was undertaken, De Vaca's journey would surely rank among the most miraculous tales of human survival ever recorded. And yet that accomplishment is only part of de Vaca's amazing story. For this narrative is much than another story of the human struggle against the apathetic forces of nature, while some aspects of it do indeed have this flavor. On the contrary, Cabeza de Vaca's Relacion represents an extraordinary account of the de Vaca's harrowing encounters with several indigenous tribes, while wandering what is now the Southern US and the cooperative, interdependent relationship which resulted. During De Vaca's travels he and his companions encountered numerous tribes, forging unlikely alliances and friendships. During this journey de Vaca details his self-transformation from conquistador to Indian medicine man.<br /> In addition to supplying invaluable knowledge about a variety of indigenous peoples and their \\"exotic\\" customs, de Vaca was also the first to describe the flora and fauna of what is now the Southern United States: Florida, Louisiana, Texas, New Mexico and Arizona. Even nearly 500 years later, de Vaca's account is still considered an indispensable source of first-hand information on the pre-colonial Southwest. <br /> Ultimately, de Vaca's narrative is the story of teh triumph of simple understanding and human cooperation. For during the eight years of travel, not only did de Vaca come to a greater understanding of himself and his purpose in life, but, more importantly he was one of the first Spaniards to acknowledge the humanity of those he first thought only to be \\"barbarous savages\\". It is in the playing out of this cultural dialectic and transformation of one conquistador's colonial consciousness, which is where its most enduring value lies.<BR>--Hayduke66	2002-07-25
US	49294458	RHTTQA808HPQR	0060928395	721748178	The New Doublespeak	Books	5	13	18	N	N	Servicing the Linguistic Target--a Guide to Enlightenment	In Society of the Spectacle, Guy Debord delved into the myriad of ways that modern society has been spectacularized through the mind-numbing assault by PR firms, advertisers and the media, in reiterating a culture where capitalism is presented as the only possible means of human existence. The spectacle that results from a culture where 24 hour coverage of even the most insignificant of events, such as, Madonna's wedding, Lady Di's death, or the OJ trial--all interspersed with an endless onslaught of Nike ads, sitcom drivel--works explicitly to confuse and sedate the public (consumers)--insulating them from the unpleasant realities of war, famine and environmental destruction. Thus, the image becomes the preferred tool of domination and the medium of modern propaganda.<br />In the same way, William Lutz seeks to expose the ways in which language is manipulated and transformed from units of meaning into a complex code of evasion and linguistic subterfuge. Contrary to what some say language and its meaning is never dependent upon neutrality, it is, instead, always the subjective, creation of the speaker/author. De Saussure pointed out that language is indeed an arbitrary creation, the meaning of which is dependent on little more than the whims of its speakers.  As Lutz points out it is precisely in the realm of meaning that understanding the jargon of doublespeak becomes vital.<br />For example, the word \\"downsizing\\" is employed day in day out on the news to express what would be more appropriately described as the firing or laying off of employees. Or, to employ current doublespeak we could choose to call this same act: eliminating redundancies in the human resources area or destaffing., Then again, we could also say that the employees were derecruited, deselected, dis-employed, outplaced, non-retained or idled indefinitely. The point of this little exercise is to illustrate the often complex ways that language is becoming increasingly jargon-laden and obscured for the express purpose of concealing and obfuscating its meaning, and thus, managing our reactions to it, be that from our government, corporations, health care providers or media outlets.<br /><br />In Orwell's 1984 the vital role of language in a free society is explicitly investigated and as history as shown the manipulation of language and meaning is a basic tool of modern war. Whether called propaganda or the manufacture of consent, the effect of the resulting manipulation of public sentiment is primarily the same. Perhaps, as a result of these views you may consider William Lutz a bit hypervigilant, in need of enrollment to a labor reform camp for ideological re-education. On the Contrary, when, as Lutz illustrates, words no longer are used to express meaning, but are used merely as devices to conceal and obscure meaning we must question the underlying reasons for this practice.<br />For example, consider the difference between a \\"freedom fighter\\" and a \\"terrorist\\". What is the difference? It seems that the only difference tends to lie on whether or not those in question are fighting as allies or enemies to national security interests of the US. A fine illustration of the publics basic inability to discern the seriousness of this problem is expresses by the public outcry over Timothy McVeigh's comments concerning the killing of children, which he referred to as \\"collateral damage.\\"  The point being that McVeigh was simply using the military terminology (doublespeak) for the killing of civilian non-combatants, something that causes not even a blink when used to describe the bombing of civilian populations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Sudan, Serbia, Viet Nam, etc. It is precisely, this type of selective condemnation that Lutz wants to bring to public attention and unless the killing of civilians is condemned on universal grounds, people will always find ways to justify its use as a military asset, with words as their preferred weapon of evasion.the express purpose of concealing and obfuscating its meaning, and thus, managing our reactions to it, be that from our government, corporations, health care providers or media outlets.<BR> <BR>In Orwell's 1984 the vital role of language in a free society is explicitly investigated and as history as shown the manipulation of language and meaning is a basic tool of modern war. Whether called propaganda or the manufacture of consent, the effect of the resulting manipulation of public sentiment is primarily the same. Perhaps, as a result of these views you may consider William Lutz a bit hypervigilant, in need of enrollment to a labor reform camp for ideological re-education. On the Contrary, when, as Lutz illustrates, words no longer are used to express meaning, but are used merely as devices to conceal and obscure meaning we must question the underlying reasons for this practice.<br />For example, consider the difference between a \\"freedom fighter\\" and a \\"terrorist\\". What is the difference? It seems that the only difference tends to lie on whether or not those in question are fighting as allies or enemies to national security interests of the US. A fine illustration of the publics basic inability to discern the seriousness of this problem is expresses by the public outcry over Timothy McVeigh's comments concerning the killing of children, which he referred to as \\"collateral damage.\\"  The point being that McVeigh was simply using the military terminology (doublespeak) for the killing of civilian non-combatants, something that causes not even a blink when used to describe the bombing of civilian populations in Afghanistan, Iraq, Sudan, Serbia, Viet Nam, etc. It is precisely, this type of selective condemnation that Lutz wants to bring to public attention and unless the killing of civilians is condemned on universal grounds, people will always find ways to justify its use as a military asset, with words as their preferred weapon of evasion.	2002-07-16
US	49294458	R2N95DWENSKDR9	0806119055	195240212	Wolf That I Am (Oklahoma Project for Discourse and Theory (Paperback))	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Search for Wisdom Begins Within	Wolf That I Am is both a lyrical account of a white mans struggle to understand American Indian culture and an intense personal journey of self-discovery and wisdom. The book recounts Fred McTaggart's experiences among the Fox tribe--Sac and Fox as they are commonly known--of Iowa in his attempt to collect and record folklore for his dissertation.<br />During this process, McTaggart slowly comes to the realization that Indian communities, due to a long history of all manner of abuse, are not always eager to become the object of academic study, regardless of the \\"good\\" intentions involved. Wolf That I Am should be standard reading for anyone planning research in American Indian communities or interested in American Indian studies in general. <br />Indeed, this book should be required reading for all Americans, many of whom continue to hold to fanciful idealizations, which not only dehumanize and demean the very people they purport to describe, but reinforces the Noble/Savage binary that has defined the relationship between Euro-Americans and Indians, which makes a free exchange of ideas all but impossible. As McTaggart shows, it is only through getting to know people of different cultures in an intimate and involved way that we can ever hope to truly understand and appreciate the great value of human cultural diversity. However, he could not achieve this subjectivity until he opened himself to the realities of American Indian life that is only attainable through a great deal of determination and care, which also allowed him to see the subtle prejudices with which he, and most Americans are raised. <br />While the path to understanding is often a difficult one, McTaggart demonstrates that such a holistic consciousness, free of heirarcical divisions and value judgement can be achieved if only we are willing to reassess our own beliefs. For as long one promotes in the self a willingness to open one's mind and heart to the sacred ways of others--in a way that grants their beliefs the respect and dignity that we would require for our own--the way to knowledge and wisdom will remain open to us.	2002-07-13
US	49294458	R3HDLV1ZNT0HH9	0802150594	732933939	Heart of a Dog	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Throw the Dogma a Bone	Bulgakov's Heart of a Dog deserves to be ranked among the greatest works of satirical writing in the 20th century. Unpublished for over 50 years, due to its harsh criticism of Stalinist Russia, this book is as relevant now as it was in 1925. Although some see in it a single-minded attack of the Socialist mindset, I believe that this view unfairly limits Bulgakov's work to a myopic ideological position. Instead, I believe that the book, through the lampooning of Sharik--a starving stray dog wandering the streets of Moscow, into a petty Marxist bureaucrat by the would be Dr Frankenstien, Philip Philippovich--illustrates the foolishness of blind adherence to any type of dogmatic belief system, rather that be Marxist, Capitalist or religious.<br />If not, the comparison to Pavlov could not hold water because the entire point of conditioning a dog to react in a certain way to a given stimulus, was in the arbitrary nature of the stimulus involved. Thus, while explicitly representing a condemnation of the Stalinist regime, regardless of the terrible realities, Heart of a Dog is an implicit critique of the herd mentality, wherever it may be found. As it is, the mis-adventures of Sharik, as both unwanted dog and \\"common\\" man, represents a biting commentary of modernity-a time most rapt by dreams of a Utopian society born from technological achievement.	2002-07-09
US	49294458	R2ES6P1IBC8EG9	1567510124	749706890	Failure to Quit: Reflections of an Optimistic Historian	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Reflections of a People's Historian	Howard Zinn personifies the qualities that make a great historian; he is at once an activist and a chronicler, someone who knows that history is made out on the streets not behind the ivy covered walls of priviledge. This essays and interviews contained in this small book all stand as positive evidence that the common people--the dirty masses, as conservative historians would call them--are the true foundation of history.<br />As enlightening as this book is, it is at the same time an alarming expose on the grossly prejudiced view of history--triumphalist history as it is sometimes referred--which is all too often constructed as a justification for and an apologetic to the injustice of the past and the crimes of the future. While some hold to the presumption that history, like the law, presides in some otherworldly state of objectivity, unassailable by mere human judgement, but as Zinn points out in the essay \\"The Problem is Civil Obedience\\",\\"The Law is not made by God, it is made by Strom Thurmond\\" (50). Thus, like the law, history is only as fair and objective as the people who write it.<br />Consequently, I would rather cast my lot with someone who worked their way through college, served in world war two and saw first hand the utter pointlessness and brutality of war, marched in the struggle for civil rights in the 60's alongside his students, and became a historian out of a desire to tell the true story of American History, warts and all, than accept the views of historians born into privilege, who never worked a day in their lives, avoided service in wars that they are all too quick to justify, and have lived their lives inside the protective walls of Harvard, Yale and Princeton. But that is precisely why so many hate Zinn and his writings, because he refuses to accept the safety of the status quo in historical inquiry, which leads to the exposure of what are often chapters in American history that many would rather forget or ignore.<BR>There are none more indispensable to the cause of freedom and justice than those dissident voices like Howard Zinn, who despite the threats, censorship, and repression continue to tell the history of the forgotten and question the authority of America's self-appointed defenders of culture, which is nothing more than a construct of history steeped in dogma, denial and lies.	2002-07-06
US	49294458	R3BYFSEJ2IV8XA	0137783663	647390274	Environmental Philosophy: From Animal Rights to Radical Ecology	Books	5	10	11	N	N	An Excellent Introduction to Environmental Philosophy	Regardless of whether you are interested in deep ecology, animal rights, envirnmental ethics,eco-feminism or political ecology, this excellently edited edition will have something of interest for you. Those who are looking for a more scientific approach to examing our relationship with nature, as oppossed to the more philosophical writings of Muir, Thoreau and Abbey, this book will be especially appreciated. <BR>Published primarily for use in environmetal philosophy/science courses at the university level, this book is very useful in providing a well researched, diversen sampling from some of the most important theorists in the field. Essays by J. Baird Calicott, Tom Regan, author of the revolutionary work \\"The Case Animal Rights\\", Holmes Rolston III, author of the seminal text \\"Environmetal Ethics\\", the Norweigan philosopher Arne Naess and , the so-called founder of the deep Ecology movement, Aldo Leopold, author of the famous \\"Sand County Almanac\\", as well as works by other important scholars such as George Sessions, Warick Fox, the famous eco-feminist historian Carolyn Merchant, John Clark and Gary Snyder along with many others. <BR>Although the essays contianed in this text can be challenging at times, in the end the payoff definitely makes it worth the effort. This difficulty is, at least, in part due to the fact that what this book requires is a new way of examining our relationship with nature and a willingness to examine problems from a more holistic perspective, which can sometimes be a hard thing for those taught that the world is here simply for man's exploitation (gender specificity intended). This volume is particularly effective in giving students a well-rounded introduction to many of the most important issues in environmental writing today. As the seriousness of our ecological problems persist and even worsen, this book will continue to be a highly informative source of information for students and instructors for years to come.	2002-07-05
US	49294458	R2U0BD7H91C5W4	039473954X	586555842	Power/Knowledge: Selected Interviews and Other Writings, 1972-1977	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Illuminating Interviews	The collection of interviews contained in this volume is a great guide to anyone interested in examining the work of Michel Foucault, whose work broke new ground through his sustained examination of the interplay between the forces of pwer and the production of knowledges. For those who have previously read works such as The History of Sexuality or Discipline and Punish, this volume is sure to have many jewels that both clarifies and compliments the ideas presented in those works. <br />Spanning an important period in Foucault's development the interviews included here deal with essential themes for anyone interested in the trajectory of Foucault's work and social concern, French philosophy or literary theory in general. Themes expanded upon includes discussions of the discrusive role of discourse(s) in shaping the parameters of power and the concommitant boundries of knowledge that such a relationship implies; the symbolic, metaphoric and noumenal implications of the body as both flesh and as a site for the inscription of various repessive regimes; or the nature and evolution of the influence of panoptical surveillance in all of its varied formulations.<br />Part and parcel to Foucault's thinking in this area is the necessary representation of the body as both a dynamic physicality and at the same time a living palimpest onto which the ideologies of culture and society are written--sometimes forcibly, but more often through self-reproduction and latent self-repession. For those who want to know these ideologies are promulgated in panaoptical society, this book will provide many provocative answers as well as an indispensible aide to untangling the complex web of ideas that Foucault used to explicate the structure of modern society.	2002-07-05
US	49294458	R10DRT8LXAA3J7	187317652X	249741606	September Commando: Gestures of Futility and Frustration	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Revolt of the Image	This book is an excellent intro to the revolutionary images of John Yates. Many know him for his biting social/political designs that adorn T-Shirts distrubuted by Alternative Tentacles as well as creating the cover art for such albums as Noam Chomsky's Class War spoken word album and various punk/indie compilations.<br />By using the images of everyday America, Yates exposes, through the use of a type of detournement or poetic terrorism, the true meaning of what these images really represent. From snapshots of Uncle S(c)am, MCdonalds, the police, and the military, Yates shows us that domination and repression can take on a multitude of varied and often banal manifestations. However, as Yates attempts to show, all these images are indeed linked and collectively create the seemingly innocuous spectacle that is the U$A Inc.	2002-07-03
US	49294458	R1EJL79A8D6JHE	188712845X	685548059	Saving Private Power: The Hidden History of "the Good War"	Books	5	15	20	N	N	A Damning Indictment of America's False Consciousness	It is very unfortunate, but not a bit surprising that some people would rather ignore or forget about the gruesome deeds of some of America's most celebrated images. Do these people ever ask that we \\"get over it\\" or \\"forget about\\" Hitler and the holocaust? I think we all know what kind of people would say such things. However, when it comes to American's such as Henry Ford--who kept a framed photo of his hero, Hitler, in his office and funded a virulently anti-semetic newspaper which Hitler himself praised in the highest terms, or Charles Lindberg who eagerly gave profacist radio speeches throughout the 30's and Prescott Bush--father of Prez George Bush--who raised over $50 million for the Nazi war effort, we are supposed to ignore it and pretend that it didn't happen. Are we also supposed to pretend that over 100 million people didn't die during the Good War, while were at it let's just pretend that there was no war at all.<br />Fortunately, there are people like Michael Zezima and Howard Zinn who will not allow what has been called the \\"murdering of history\\" simply because it is inconsistent with great myth of America as the tireless defender of freedom and justice in the world. Obviously, contrary to what some would say, these facts have not been exposed enough, if so why are so many Americans in the dark about the true events of history? Books like this are not produced with the purpose of \\"trashing America\\", but in order to make America a better place. For as long as war criminals, traitors, and racists are immortalized as American heroes, the true facts of American history will need to be brought to the attention of the public, which is the valuable purpose that this book is intended to serve.<br />Finally, by exposing the inhumanity of war, this work represents a strong condemnation of military acts of agression and the logic of total war, which since WWII, has become an all too common tactic of modern war, resulting in the deaths of untold millions of innocent civilians. For as a Judge presiding over the Nurenberg trials so aptly observed it is not the act that determines what a war crime is, it is simply a matter of which side one happens to be on. The Losers are war criminals and the winners are heros. Until people begin to see beyond this kind of grossly simplistic opposition, writings such as these will continue to serve an essential purpose in the service of democracy, justice and freedom. Reading \\"Saving Private Power\\" will introduce you to the dark side of history that many would like to keep hidden and in the end you will never be able to see the World in the same way again.	2002-07-03
US	49294458	R1I5JGNWDV3EJ0	0806131373	748290963	The Conquest of America: The Question of the Other	Books	5	55	61	N	N	Columbus and the Making of the Savage Other	In The Conquest of America Todorov delves deeply into the dark consequences (intended and unintended) of the European discovery of the Americas and represents the first important study of the influence of religious belief on the interactions beginning with Columbus with the \\"savage\\" Other. While many people attempt to dismiss the religious aspect of this relationship, but as Todorov shows it is central to understanding the dynamics of European conquest and the ultimate fate of the \\"New World's\\" indigenous inhabitants. Both in his letters and his diary Christopher Columbus repeatedly expresses his primary purpose as a religious one. Perhaps, due to the obvious problems for the Catholic Church that this represents this motive has taken a backseat to the supposed thirst for gold that has overshadowed the religious roots of this horrific tragedy ever since.<br />An important aspect of Todorov's thesis is his well-supported claim that it was precisely the claim to European racial superiority that the Christianity strongly reinforced[es] provided justification for the actions of the Spanish, even in its most severe manifestation. In fact, Todorov invokes the unimaginably horrible image of Catholic priests bashing Indian baby's heads against rocks, ostensibly to save them from damnation to Hell, which their \\"savage\\" culture would have otherwise consigned them to.<br />The logic of this deed and other like them illustrates the pernicious influence of Christianity in the Colonial project, which lies at the root of the hegemonic self-image of Western experience-first defined from the perspective of Columbus and Cortez.<br />If religion was a guiding principle in the lives of the conquerors, as Todorov points out, so to was it for the conquered, especially in the case of the Aztecs. Baffled by the paradox of the famous story concerning Cortez and his several hundred Conquistador's ability to defeat the entire Aztec empire, which numbered at least several million, Todorov reveals that it was primarily due to Montezuma's belief that Cortez and his party was Gods, which led to his reluctance to raise an army in opposition. In the middle section of the book Todorov gives a detailed analysis of this stunning historic event and shows that Cortez' victory was not necessarily due to any great military achievement, instead it was mostly the result of the Aztec's refusal to mount any kind of a effective defense until it was too late. Thus, it was Montezuma's indecision, born of his own religious belief that led to the sudden collapse of the Aztec empire.<br />In the final third of the book Todorov investigates the impact that these events have had on the subsequent writings on the subject. In particular, he focuses on the work of three writers, all Spanish, but among the first generations of Europeans native to South America. These works that are primarily only known to scholars in the field offer many surprises to the contemporary reader, showing that there was a far more open view of the non-European \\"Other\\" expressed by those who lived among them in the waning days after conquest. Perhaps, that is one of the most insidious luxuries of victory-the ability to show compassion for the defeated, but always, yet always too late.<br />Todorov's work is an important work, which would be of great interest to students of literature, history, cultural/indigenous studies and post-colonial theory. After reading this book Columbus Day and all that it necessarily represents will never be seen in the same way again.s that it was primarily due to Montezuma's belief that Cortez and his party was Gods, which led to his reluctance to raise an army in opposition. In the middle section of the book Todorov gives a detailed analysis of this stunning historic event and shows that Cortez' victory was not necessarily due to any great military achievement, instead it was mostly the result of the Aztec's refusal to mount any kind of a effective defense until it was too late. Thus, it was Montezuma's indecision, born of his own religious belief that led to the sudden collapse of the Aztec empire.<br />In the final third of the book Todorov investigates the impact that these events have had on the subsequent writings on the subject. In particular, he focuses on the work of three writers, all Spanish, but among the first generations of Europeans native to South America. These works that are primarily only known to scholars in the field offer many surprises to the contemporary reader, showing that there was a far more open view of the non-European \\"Other\\" expressed by those who lived among them in the waning days after conquest. Perhaps, that is one of the most insidious luxuries of victory-the ability to show compassion for the defeated, but always, yet always too late.<br />Todorov's work is an important work, which would be of great interest to students of literature, history, cultural/indigenous studies and post-colonial theory. After reading this book Columbus Day and all that it necessarily represents will never be seen in the same way again.	2002-06-30
US	49294458	R3JUJZS90B4XKE	0872860043	224818562	The Yage Letters	Books	3	4	4	N	N	We Have a Latah to Learn	The Yage Letters is an interesting collection of correspondance from William S Burroughs to Allen Ginsberg spanning from Jan. 15 to July 10, 1953. In addition to capturing the essence of Burroughs style and subject matter, albeit in a rather raw form, the letters tell of his search for the mythic mind-altering natural drug Yage. <br />Incidentally, this search took place directly after Burroughs had fled from Mexico after the accidental death of his wife at his own hand. Although there are many jewels to be found in this small book for the dedicated fan of Burroughs' work, they are spread throughout with many tedious, repetitious and confusing entries. Ginsburg's contribution, which I hoped would lend a voice of explanation to the letters, is instead a spasmolytic account of his own experience on the same drug, seemingly penned when still under the influence of it.<BR> <BR>All in all, an interesting account of one of America's most important author's experiences traveling through Latin and South America in the early 50's--a time of great upheaval and fervor in that region. Highly recommended for Burroughs fanatics and seems to prefigure his work Cities of the Red Night. However, for those not yet familar with his revolutionary writing style I recommend Cities of the Red Night, and Junky.	2002-06-29
US	49294458	R1C6BA2FAB3GKS	019285383X	830127562	Literary Theory: A Very Short Introduction	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Essential guide to PoMo Theory	Jonathan Culler's work is a fine exposition on the wrok of some of the twentieth centuries most provoctive philosophical and literary theorists. In well researched and clear chapters, Culler takes the reader on a guided tour of Postmodern theory-- which grew out of or is a response to russian formalism, phenomenology, new criticism, structuralism, post-structuralism, deconstruction,feminist theory, new histroricism, post-colonial theory, and minority discourses--beginning with the a discussion of the idea of \\"theory\\" and its importance and application to academic study today. <br />Using a highly stylized prose voice Culler succeeds greatly in expressing the nuance and deepth of this most controversial philosophical movement. Rather one is a student of Foucault, Derrida, de Saussure, or literary theory in general this book is an invaluable guide to the basics of these complex collection of ideas.<br />In this work Culler expands upon the importance of literature and by extension the close study of it as he recognizes the interconnectivty implicit between individual life and the literature that is produced as an attempt to explain its meaning. In Culler's view literature and the study of same is every bit as important as the study of history and religion as all aim to promulgate a \\"true\\" narrative of human experience, which some do better than others. Literary Theory, if for no other reason, is an important resource simply because it brings this idea to the fore and urges the reader into a more open and receptive posture in relation to the \\"reading\\" of any meaningful text, be it a novel, a symphony, a ballet, a painting or even a newspaper, which can only lead to a more infused understanding of the purpose of art and humanities necessary relation to it.<br />Reading this slim volume will save you hours of struggle with the difficult texts and ideas, that this book is definitely not meant to replace, but only supplement, rather it be Foucault's \\"History of Sexuality\\"and \\"Discipline and Punish\\"; Derrida's notion of \\"play\\" and deconstruction, de Saussure's \\"la parole\\" or the diverse body of work that first found its inspiration in these ideas, which are essential to understanding the raging debates in academia today.	2002-06-25
US	49294458	RPVO7XXEL0E8F	0802132758	512368592	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Sometimes the Pawns can be Kings	In this play Tom Stoppard has pulled two minor characters from Hamlet and given us a glimpse of what may lay behind the mundane exteriors of everyday life and more importantly the limits of possibility of meaning contained in the world of literature. What is important about this is that Stoppard is showing us that the lives of common people and minor characters can also make for some great literature too.<BR> <BR>Philosophically, I would tend to say that this play is securely grounded in the genre that has been called the Theater of the Absurd, which in turn owes much to the thinking of Albert Camus. Having said this, I have to say that this play has some definite similarities with the works of Beckett, especially Godot, but also that of Harold Pinter's, &quot;The Birthday Party&quot;, especially in terms of dialogue, plot direction, and character development. So if you like the work of these playwrights you would certainly enjoy this, which would also be of great interest to Shakespeare students/fans as well as anyone interested in the ideas of existentialist thought.<BR> <BR>Despite these similarities R&amp;G and at the same time because of them, this work seems at times to be conscious of breaking new ground and testing the limits of absurdity and interaction with the audience. The symbolism, for example, seems to be much more important to the action and meaning of this play than it is in other works of this genre. Whereas, Godot seems to stress the repetitiveness of dialogue, R&amp;G is suggestive of just the opposite--the seemingly endless play of meaning implicit in each uttered word. This comes out through the characters lack of confidence in what they struggle to say, and the way that their views seem to change with each situation, which illustrates the uncertainty of meaning and life. Although many of the plays of this period seem to be focused on the nature of existence and its meaning to humanity, the discursive ways through which it is approached and interpreted make them all vastly unique, puzzling and vastly entertaining reads. <br />The thing that is, perhaps, most original in R&amp;G's creation, is the way that Stoppard utilizes the thought of Artaud and his idea of the Theater of Cruelty, to at times completely breakdown the barriers between the audience and the actors. It follows then, that if one wants to get the full effect of this play it has to be seen live. But, then again how many people get that chance, thus, this book is the second best thing. I would only suggest paying very close attention to the stage directions, set and scenery, as they are much more important in this play than they are in others. <br />Finally, simply read R&amp;G for the fun of it, you certainly will not be disappointed. In this play Stoppard has gone along way in breaking down the barriers between the writer and the average reader. With originality, humor, and an important theme, Stoppard has achieved his goal beautifully, giving us all a realistic glimpse into the complex drama of human life, literature and the mystery of existence.<BR>Also check out the movie version with Gary Oldman, Tim Roth and Richard Dreyfus, which is faithful to the production and a joy to watch.	2002-06-22
US	49294458	R27IUAWT25CJ59	0679726691	265445097	The Collected Poems of Wallace Stevens	Books	5	25	36	N	N	Poetry as Religion, Poetry as Communion	Can poetry replace religion as an object of personal \\"faith\\"? Wallace Stevens thought so, and in this collection of exquisitely crafted poems he attempted to show us how. This collection contains many of his most famous pieces including the much anthogized \\"The Snow Man\\", \\"Fabliau of Florida\\", Anecdote of the Jar\\" and \\"Thirteen Ways of Looking at a Balckbird\\", as well as, his most famous (anthologized) poem \\"Sunday Morning\\".<BR><BR><BR>In many ways the intensely focused vision and complex word play that Stevens employed, which aimed at breaking down the Western metaphysical binary between word and thing, in his poetry is representative of the deeply complect nature of his poetic vision. While not only breaking new ground in form and voice, Stevens, in these poems, sought to promulgate a view of poetry as deeply subjective and personal as our contact with the world and Nature itself. As Stevens himself later explained, his poetry was meant to represent \\"not Ideas, but the things themselves\\".<BR><BR><BR>The Snow Man, for example, can be read as a mediatation on death and its place in the natural part of the unending cycles of being. Although, not a new idea, the way Stevens frames it, through his highly complex use of such simple language, brought to bear by the implied interrelationships of the individual words at play, introduces the idea of Gaia to the discourse of modernity. Thus, to understand and experience connection with the world itself requires the abandonment of irrational, socialized fears and a willingness to accept death as a natural outcome of life, without deference to hopeful dogma and superstition.<BR><BR> <BR>As \\"The Snow Man\\" illustrates, the message that Stevens tries to impart, through the transformation of language from mere linguistic signifiers into \\"real\\" referential elements grounded in reality--in brute being--is simply to force the reader to realize that the same action can be enacted in our individual interactions with each other and theworld. Through metaphor and complex word play Stevens shows that the very metaphors that we all live by, simply shroud the apathetic reality that surrounds us all--something that some are just not willing to face. Thus, in a way Stevens poetry, through a redoubling of signification falls back upon itself and reveals that the world and the word are merely one and that neither takes precedence over the other, both mutually informs and defines the other, but only we, through our harmonium with the world, allow them to do so. Otherwise, we simply continue to delude ourselves and fail to see the actual things that lie in the ideas themselves.	2002-05-28
US	49294458	R24SD6OF64DAVW	0394702956	528453152	Robinson Jeffers: Selected Poems	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Poetry of the Earth	I was first introduced to the work of Robinson Jeffers in an essay by Edward Abbey in which he spoke about the stark unpretentious beauty of Jeffers' poem \\"Vulture\\" and from the moment I read it I have been a great fan ever since. <BR><BR>Selected Poems, by Robinson Jeffers includes a great sampling of poems that spans Jeffers entire career, while also including the long poem Roan Stallion, which gives the reader a feel for Jeffers more ambitious longer works such as Cawdor, Tamar and Dear Judas.<BR>It seems that, while some bristle at what could be seen as Jeffers at times misanthropic themes, I believe it is precisely the stark objectivity in poems such as \\"Original Sin\\", \\"We are Those People\\" and \\"Vulture\\" that give his work such vitality and importance.<BR>Thus, what some erroneously perceive as Jeffers' misanthropy, can be better understood as a poet's attempt to bring about the realization of a biocentric view of the universe, which attempts to express the real indifference of Nature. In doing so, Jeffers re-integrates humanity into the natural world, in which every living being is subject to the constant cycles of life, death and rebirth, which is the ultimate law of Nature.<BR><BR>Jeffers' work is not poetry merely for poetry's sake, which is all too often the case in the work produced today, it is Nature translated into the written word--a poetry of the Earth and a celebration of not only life, but also of the mountains, rivers, earth and sky, that provides shelter and nourishes us all.	2002-05-25
US	49294458	RMKXRWPDZN4KR	0805008209	998020560	Beyond the Wall: Essays from the Outside	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Beautiful Simplicity	Although Desert Solitaire is Abbey's most popular work of non-fiction and is an undeniable American masterpiece, Beyond the Wall in many ways surpasses it in its praise of the beauty and granduer of nature and as a meditation on humanity's place in it. As a work primarily concerned with Abbey's experiences on several hiking/camping trips alone in the Desert, from Southern Colorado, and West Texas, through theNew Mexico and Arizona  wilds to the Sea of Cortez, the reader is allowed an glimpse into his psyche that is unsurpassed in these quiet revelations, documented in many a lonely, but not lonesome walk. In Beyond the Wall, Abbey is closest to his comparison with Thoreau, in the way that the simple description of Nature itself is the focus of this work. In many ways this book is both a eulogy and a celebration of Glen Canyon and raw unspoiled Nature.<br />Whether narrating &quot;a Walk Through Desert Hills&quot; or a &quot;float trip down the doomed Glen Canyon, Abbey's awareness of the subtle force of nature is everpresent, and is expressed in the metaphoric image of Freedom and Wilderness versus industrial insanity and slavery. In many ways, what is beyond the wall is the possibility of our unmeditated communion with nature. And although this wall seems forminable, it can be overcome simply by venturing off the beaten path into a wilderness unknown to many. His solution lies in the simple concept of reestablishing an intimate relationship with Nature, which is deprived of so many today. Thus, in becoming acquainted with our environments and surroundings we will be much more involved in saving what is there. The case of Glen Canyon is a sad illustration of this, for despite its stunning beauty and granduer, which Abbey claimed surpassed even that of the Grand Canyon, it was destroyed simply because not enough people had experienced it and too few cared enough to save it.<br />In reading the essays in Beyond the wall, Ed introduces us to one way that we can all get beyond the walls that alienate us from nature and ultimately ourselves. And since this book can only guide us so far, it is we that must take the next step and decide on what side of the wall we want to live our lives.yond the walls that alienate us from nature and ultimately ourselves. And since this book can only guide us so far, it is we that must take the next step and decide on what side of the wall we want to live our lives.	2002-05-23
US	49294458	R18NNMHACCSNH4	0380714604	966054561	Fire on the Mountain	Books	5	30	31	N	N	A Philosophic Precursor to the Monkeywrench Gang	For all those who have read Abbey's famous work Desert Solitaire and other non fiction Fire on the Mountain is a great introduction to his fiction. First published in 1962 it marks Abbey's early attempts to confront some of the environmental and social problems resulting from humanity's alienation from nature and the land. Abbey based his plot around actual events in which a New Mexico rancher named John Prather fought government attempts to confiscate his land to make it part of the White Sands Missle Range. Considering the time when this book was written, following the era of McCarthyism and the onset of the Cold War, Abbey was especially bold in putting forth the philosophical preposition that an individual has a moral and ethical responsibilty to protect the land against its despoilers, whether corporate entities or even the US government. <br />In detailing one person's struggle against the seemingly invincible forces of power that the government represents, Abbey was attempting to illustrate that, indeed, one person's strugglecan make a difference. Given Abbey's extention of this line of thought and further development in The Monkeywrech Gang the intimate relationship between the two novels seems apparent. The ideas presented in Fire on the Mountain, thus, are central to understanding  Abbey's subsequent works, both his fiction and non fiction, which are all bound by his belief that the essential tenent for human society must be respect for the environment and a duty to protect the natural diversity of life. As Abbey often said the land is owned by all and no one.	2002-03-16
US	49294458	R3E06BMLAF3Z6M	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	1	26	83	N	N	Selfishness does not diminish Responsibility	Unfortunately for Ayn Rand and her followers the concept of INDIVIDUAL rational selfishness cannot be divorced form the interconectedness of social life. And although many refuse to accept the seemingly inconsequential effects of even the most common of actions the collective accumulation of such actions have a profound influence on the lives of ALL. Therefore, the idea of acting in one's own self interest in fundamentally flawed if it is put forth, as Rand does, on the assumption that one's actions are innocuous to the well-being of others. For example every piece of garbage one throws away, puff of car exhaust that spews from our cars, pair of Nikes that we buy, affect, often with terrible consequences for many, people in parts of the world we CHOOSE to ignore. The problem with this line of thinking is that it presents itself as a means of rescuing society from the evils of egalitarianism through the deification of free market capitalism( which has never existed as evidenced by endless corporate subsidies and bailouts antithetical to Rand's purported program when applied to individuals), which is built upon the same types of unquestionable idealogies as Communism and Fascism. The fact is wherever there is suffering, injustice and inequality in the world one also finds selfishness as one of the main contributing factors. I also find it intweresting that many of the same people who sing the praises of Rand's misguided ideas are those who have never worked or created anything on their own. Randian philosophy is therefore the philosophy of the trust fund, the inheritance recipient, the person who runs back to mommy and daddy for help when their personal form of \\"rational selfishness\\" becomes inconvienent. In its most insidious form Rand's ideas represent nothing more than a reapplication of the tenents of social darwinism, which is inextractibly rooted in racism, sexism and EUROCENTRISM in a declintionist view of historical progress.	2002-03-13
US	49294458	R1R028FBL9NEG8	0820316369	669812426	A Companion to the Crying of Lot 49	Books	4	28	29	N	N	Use with caution	This little book written to provide insight into the myriad of Pynchon's obscure references and symbolic appellations in The Crying of Lot 49 is a worthwhile source of help if used with discretion and common sense. Although many of Grant's entries are useful to untangle some of Pynchon's more obscure references, others will simply lead you further down the path of confusion. The problem lies in the fact that while many of Grant's suggestions are useful, others simply bring about the same type of confusion that he is trying to address, since he often gives more than one possible explanation for each passage discussed. That is not to say that the book is not useful, it is, only that The Crying of Lot 49 by its very nature resists such means of explanation. But as reader of Pynchon already know, any help is welcome. As long as the reader keeps in mind that this book is meant only to introduce &quot;possible meanings&quot; and &quot;complimentary facts&quot;, which may or may not correspond to what Pynchon actually has hidden in his words. Nonetheless a good source of info and a help to anyone exasperated by the twisting and turning of Pynchon's view of the postmodern world.	2002-03-08
US	49294458	R1NXKEOR3FG733	0826323871	353536638	Adventures with Ed: A Portrait of Abbey	Books	5	15	16	N	N	An Intimate Portrait of Abbey	Adventures with Ed, by his longtime friend and fellow sabot, Jack Loeffler, offers an intimate look into the life of Edward Abbey that gets to the very bedrock of his existence of a writer and as a lover of the natural world. Although I have read and reread almost all of Abbey's work, this book allowed me to integrate and better understand the persona that Abbey constructed through his work and the sensitive, reticent man that he was in everyday life. While Loeffler's biography covers Abbey's entire life, the emphasis is on his life and work after he met Loeffler after the publication of Desert Solitaire until his death in 1988. Thus, this work is not simply a chronicle of Abbey's life as a writer and environmentalist, it is also the story of two friends who shared an unabiding love of nature and especially of the Southwestern desert.<br />Perhaps, one of the best qualities of this book is the way Loeffler illustrates Abbey's view of the world, which shaped his evolution as a writer, through the retelling of conversations and debates that they had on their many trips into the deserts of the Southwest and Mexico. In this way Loeffler has performed a great service for anyone who desires to better understand the work, as well as the life, of Edward Abbey, by providing many intimate details that reveal the forces that influenced Abbey's perception of the world and his place in it. It is impossible to read Abbey's work and not be moved, sometimes by his sense of humor and satiric wit or by his stunningly beautiful descriptions of what many see only as a desolate wasteland. This book is a must for anyone who wants to travel, albeit vicariously, with Abbey and Loeffler along the dusty roads of their many expeditions and trips into the desert, which allows us all to get a small glimpse into Abbey's life, which allows us to better understand his purpose as a writer.	2002-02-26
US	49294458	RTZ0FUFAD3QHK	0767908481	223666842	The No Spin Zone: Confrontations with the Powerful and Famous in America	Books	1	13	32	N	N	The No Brain Zone	How does someone who was once the host of the tabloid trash show \\"Inside Edition\\", become the new moral spokesMan for America. When host of this trash show Bill O'Reilly didn't seem to care about integrity and morals, but that's how he paid the bills then--capitalizing on the pain of others. But now that he is on another program he thinks he has the moral authority to tell everyone else how to live, conveinently forgetting he is nothing more than just another Jerry Springer retread. Maybe if you are an ignorant, narrow-minded hypocrite following such a buffoon is fine, although very dangwerous for the rest of us. Like Dr. (of what--eugenics) Laura, another right-wing fascist hypocrite who promulgates religious virtue, only after being rejected as a 2-bit pinup model, self-hatred, As well as the hatred of all that are not white, seems to be the real motive behind their illogical, narrowminded tyraids. The really tragic thing is that people seem to enjoy, even love this garbage, Hitler, Mussolini and Reagan had plenty of fans too! Maybe people are just buying this garbage because everyone else is, especially since intellectual independence has ceased to be celebrated as an important \\"American\\" quality-it is subversive and dangerous, O\\"Reilly and his ilk would tell you. <BR>O\\"Reilly's closeminded, xenophobic spewings represent the epitome of the religious fanatic mentality where people do what they \\"beLIEve\\", as a means of showing everyone else how righteous-manifested through wealth--one is. The next time you drive by a church on sunday, for god's sake don't go in, and happen to get a glimpse of the carnivalesque spectacle of gross excess, you will know what I mean. For just as religion represents nothing more than a perverse fashion show for many, the example offers a good explanation as to why seemingly intelligent people (lets give them the benefit of the doubt) take this garbage seriously. And unfortunately, if you are one of these mindless drones, that fact speaks more about your own intelligence and lack of personal responsibility than it does anything that one may claim to believe or really care about. Repeat after me: \\"(with blank eyes and restive mind) \\"god bless amerika, god bless George Bush, god bless our wars, god bless the generous corporations, and god bless Bill O\\"Reilly.\\" Amen!	2002-01-29
US	49294458	R2TL4X5K45DVN0	0679732764	691093854	Invisible Man	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Trickster writes...	Although this is a fairly long work, I consider it one of the richest works I have ever read. In terms of sheer information and hidden subversiveness, this book is a rare treat for those who like to dig deep beneath the surfaces and find what is hidden there. Invisible Man is not merely a work about an alienated black male, it is also the story of American history, and the racism that has been ever present, on the surface and veiled beneath the harmless guise of tradition. The fact that Ellison produced such a biting critique of American society, and was able to get it published, is a miracle in itself. 'Invisible Man' is a powerful statement against the dehumanizing effects of racism in America. Through elaborate symbolism and metaphor Ellison goes about the huge task of trying to expose the rampant institutional and societal racism that manifested itself in practically every corner of American culture. Through the anonymous character of the Invisible Man, we are taken on a tour that begins in the outwardly racist South and ends in the supposedly progressive Eastern city of New York and Harlem. What the Invisible Man discovers about America in his journey is both a powerful social commentary and harsh indictment of the nature of human ignorance and hatred.<br />The Invisible Man is certainly not an easy read, because of the threat of censorship Ellison was forced to submerge his subversive message under the appearance of mild criticism. The result is an extremely deep and complex novel, which often is charged with double-meaning, allusion, and symbolism. One is amazed at the ingenuity and inventedness that Ellison employed in this work, and equally impressed at the final result.<br />This work itself is a testimony that people can overcome racism, prejudice, and hatred, and yet it is at the same time disheartening to see what extreme lengths Ellison had to go in order to express his views, which inherently affects the readers of his novel as well. Although Ellison was able to get his message published, he was forced to do so under a veil of darkness, one that has effectively muffled his message to a great portion of his readers. Consequently, his ultimate triumph is partial and bittersweet.<br />There are many things in this book that are easily overlooked; it is one that requires much thought and investigative inquiry. \\"Invisible Man\\" is best to be read more than once, while keeping in mind the subversive nature of Ellison's critique and the extreme methods he was forced to employ in doing so. If this bit of advice is followed his message will continue to be heard, which is an important and unerrepresented voice of our American past. This book is a joy to read and provides invaluable insight to a period of American history that most people know little about. In my estimation Invisible Man is one of the greatest books written in the annals of American literature, a representation of American ingenuity and independence at its finest.s able to get his message published, he was forced to do so under a veil of darkness, one that has effectively muffled his message to a great portion of his readers. Consequently, his ultimate triumph is partial and bittersweet. <BR>There are many things in this book that are easily overlooked; it is one that requires much thought and investigative inquiry. \\"Invisible Man\\" is best to be read more than once, while keeping in mind the subversive nature of Ellison's critique and the extreme methods he was forced to employ in doing so. If this bit of advice is followed his message will continue to be heard, which is an important and unerrepresented voice of our American past. This book is a joy to read and provides invaluable insight to a period of American history that most people know little about. In my estimation Invisible Man is one of the greatest books written in the annals of American literature, a representation of American ingenuity and independence at its finest.	2002-01-29
US	49294458	R70YOTM5VFO2J	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	35	42	N	N	existensialism par excellance	Aside from being Camus' crowning literary achievement, this work should also be viewed as one of the most important works of twentieth century literatue. It is also, perhaps, the most representational work of fiction in the existensialist genre, far surpassing the work of Sartre. The Fall, aside from being a great work, is also a masterful technical achievment, and a lesson in character development and dialogue. The plot revolves around a Parisian Lawyer by the name of Jean-Baptiste Clamence and his conversation with an anonymous man at an Amsterdam bar. As the story progresses the reader is gradually overwhelmed by the lawyers increasingly serious confessions. With no scenery to distract you from the intensity of the conversation, the tension grows with each new admission, which slowly reveals the fragile relationships that we have with others, as well as the delusional images projected upon the self.  In his simple confession and out-pouring of emotion we see a successful, seemingly content man, gradually transformed and reduced into an alienated, and shattered human being; a mere shell of the individual that he once strived to be. This book is similar to &quot;The Stranger&quot; in the way that the psychological tension is meticulously and subtly built upon, inevitably moving towards a final disheartening, yet liberating, personal understanding. But, unlike &quot;The Stranger&quot; there is no closure for the subject or release from the psychological torment of reflection, only the curse of endless confession, not only concernign his individual crimes, but for his complicity in all the crimes of humanity. One can only speculate on how Camus would have continued this line of inquiry if he hadn't been tragically killed in an automobile accident at the age of 46. As it is we can only continue to enjoy and contemplate what he left behind. For as long as literature exists writers will continue to delve into the recesses of the human psyche and attempt to provide a flicker of light in, an all to often, dark and absurd world. After reading this book I can say that Camus accomplished this goal like few writers ever have, and his works will continue to represent a sobering light amid the confusion of an often absurd world.	2000-11-14
US	49294458	R1RAOV8OJ16JCK	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	W.A.S.T.E no time, read this book..	If you've always heard the term postmodern and wondered what it meant this book is for you. But, let me warn you, this book is definately not for everyone, the plot is unique to say the least, and the characters are not what you will find in most novels, but then again, neither is the intellectual stimulation. In little over 100 pages, Thomas Pynchon has written an accessibly managable introduction to postmodern literature. Although this book is rather dense, and is filled with obscure facts and information from seemingly every conceivable specialty of knowledge, it is an enjoyable way to aquaint oneself  with one of the most misunderstood genres of modern literature. Just be sure to keep a dictionary, encyclopedia and sourcebook to anarchism handy. The plot revolves around the exciting and often bizarre experiences and wanderings of Oedipa Maas, as she embarks upon a surrealistic journey into the unfamiliar techno-industrial pop culture wasteland of San Narcisco and surrounding counties, after being named executor of an ex-lovers will. In her madcap adventures she uncovers a bizzaire world where everything that she has ever learned crumbles in the face of absurdity and falls into question. It is a world where nazi doctors, secret societies, papal misdeeds, anarchist dreamers, narcicistic ex-child stars, and deranged outcasts all come out of the shadows to invade the &quot;typical&quot; suburban landscape of an average American housewife. This book is concerned with uncovering the realities, or lack thereof, that most people would want to stay hidden, or at the least forgotton. It is about questioning the assumptions that we all hold dear, even if it means coming to terms with a world that is without meaning, without order, and most of all without a coherent design. This is a novel with many questions to be answered, so if you welcome intellectual challenge and desire obscure knowledge this book will certainly not dissappoint. And if you don't quite understand it read it again...	2000-11-14
US	49294458	R1635BSCZ10YR9	0452265622	951259034	The Journey Home: Some Words in the Defense of the American West (Plume)	Books	5	33	33	N	N	Arguably Abbey's best	That claim may seem a little rash in the face of Abbey's great prose work, Desert Solitaire, but this book in my view offers a more intimate and personal look at Abbey himself and provides some great insights into his formation as writing placed within the context of the American west. One of the strengths of this work, as opposed to Desert Solitaire, is the broadness of subject matter covered. Abbey begins by recounting his life changing hitch-hiking, train jumping tour across America to the west in the summer of 1944. His style, however, is like Kerouac, but without the self consciousness and pretension. Through Abbey's eye's it is nature that is the subject, his personal exploits are merely secondary/accidental; Abbey is just along for the ride. He tells of his first glimpse of the mesa's of Hopi country on the fringes of the Painted Desert as viewed from the side door of the Pullman as he drifted down the tracks towards New Mexico. Throughout, he describes his love of the desert and the creatures that live there with a vitality and gentleness uncommon in contemporary environmental discourse. This sensitivity is even more pronounced when compared with his verbal protests against what he sees as the destroyers of his desert home, such as, the miners, developers, dammers, trappers and, yes, even the tourists. \\"The Journey Home\\" closes with a surrealistic celebration of the desert as seen through the detached lens of an anonymous camera, which I consider some of his most beautiful and original writing. For all those who have read Desert Solitaire, read this to get a more intimate look of the man behind the ideas. Abbey's contradictions are what makes him so great as an American writer. He is at once an anarchist, environmentalist, desert rat, river-runner, essayist, and novelist, but above all, he was just a man from Pennsylvania who became enraptured by the mysteries of the desert and dedicated his life to celebrating its beauty.	2000-10-27
US	49294458	R1FNQTEAYIK5UQ	1878825305	152649891	The CIA's Greatest Hits (The Real Story Series)	Books	4	33	34	N	N	An Introduction to Repression	This is another important contribution to the ongoing critic of imperialist culture that many mistaking think ended at the start of the twentieth century. In the vein of Chomsky, Vidal and Jardine, &quot;Real Story Series&quot; pamphlets, Zepezauer gives a quick overview of, perhaps, one of the most dishonorable ongoing chapters of US history. This book is not meant to go into a detailed analysis' of CIA activities, but rather introduce the nefarious activities of this powerful agency to the public. Within this book one will be introduced to the CIA's involvement in the overthrow of democratic governments all over the world. From Nicaragua, Guatemala, and El Salvador and the repeted attempts to bring about the downfall of Castro in our hemisphere, to the Phillipines, Vietnam, Greece, and into Africa, the reader introduced to what could be called the most well financed terrorist organization in the world. This book is only an introduction, as I said, and if one is interested in a more in- depth look at the CIA, check out &quot;Killing Hope&quot; by William Blum. All in all this book is a very good place begin in any investigation of the CIA's activities, especially for those not familar with the subject.	2000-10-26
US	49294458	R242BHMIF1S3U6	1878825305	152649891	The CIA's Greatest Hits (The Real Story Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	An Introduction to Repression	This is another important contribution to the ongoing critic of imperialist culture that many mistaking think ended at the start of the twentieth century. In the vein of Chomsky, Vidal and Jardine, &quot;Real Story Series&quot; pamphlets, Zepezauer gives a quick overview of, perhaps, one of the most dishonorable ongoing chapters of US history. This book is not meant to go into a detailed analysis' of CIA activities, but rather introduce the nefarious activities of this powerful agency to the public. Within this book one will be introduced to the CIA's involvement in the overthrow of democratic governments all over the world. From Nicaragua, Guatemala, and El Salvador and the repeted attempts to bring about the downfall of Castro in our hemisphere, to the Phillipines, Vietnam, Greece, and into Africa, the reader introduced to what could be called the most well financed terrorist organization in the world. This book is only an introduction, as I said, and if one is interested in a more in- depth look at the CIA, check out &quot;Killing Hope&quot; by William Blum. All in all this book is a very good place begin in any investigation of the CIA's activities, especially for those not familar with the subject.	2000-10-26
US	49294458	ROWFW7IUTAFVV	0767905288	579302723	The O'Reilly Factor: The Good, the Bad, and the Completely Ridiculous in American Life	Books	1	16	60	N	N	Hypocrisy and Ignorance= Best Seller	How does someone who was the host of the tabloid trash show 'Inside Edition', become the new moral spokeperson for America. Bill O'Reilly didn't seem to care about integrity and morals when he was making his money from trash tv, but now that he is on another program he thinks he can tell everyone else how to live. Maybe if you are a narrow-minded hypocrite that is fine. Like Dr.(of what-eugenics)Laura, another right wing hypocrite who extolls virtue and yet has posed nude, hate seems to be the real motive behind these unintellectual tyraids. The sad thing is that people seem to enjoy this garbage, or are they just buying because everyone else is. This is the epitome of the church mentality where everyone goes not because they &quot;believe&quot;, but because it is simply a means of showing everyone else how righteous and wealthy one is. Next time your in church look around, you will see what I mean, Its a fashion show, not a religious service, which gets to the heart of why intelligent people will never take this garbage seriously, but, if one does, that speaks more about their intelligence than it does about anything that one may claim to believe or really care about.	2000-10-09
US	49294458	ROWYO8LZQQZWS	1878825151	404305428	The American Presidency (The Real Story Series)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	It's that time again	What better book to get us ready for the onslaught of lies, distortions, and manufactured history, that is sure to flow as this year's presidential  election draws near. In this brief introduction (thats why I only gave it 4  stars, it would have been better if it were a little more detailed) to  America's number one sacred cow, the presidency, Gore Vidal ( A distant  relative to Al Gore)gives us a much needed dose of reality, as unsavory as  that may be. This book is based upon a British television documentary that  Vidal created, which was sold to The History Channel. What happened next is  a sad commentary on the American Media, and its willingness to censor  dissenting views. Instaed of cancelling this documentary, they instead  decided to have the &quot;hosts&quot; dispute practically every point in an  obvious attempt to discredit it. Of course, the corporations that own the  History channel, and have benefited most from the corruption that Vidal's  book exposes are the real culprits in this case, exposing a problem that  goes much deeper than just media bias. As Vidal says, this book is not only  about the Presidency, it is about control; not only of what we as citizens  are allowed to see and form our own opions of, but also what we can  express. Presidents are not gods, even though they tend to act like they  are. The important thing that this book tells us is that all people should  be held accountible to the same laws, and this does not just start with  Clinton. It has dated back to our earliest leaders, men who proudly owned  slaves, declared unjust wars, supported terrorism, and ordered bombings of  innocent civilians. We must see these men for who they are, not as the  god-like figures on Mt. Rushmore, or the granite and marble of Washington,  but as the criminals that many of them were.	2000-08-22
US	49294458	RQL0K5RH65IX	0671695886	316822403	Desert Solitaire	Books	5	76	80	N	N	A Voice Crying in the Wilderness	Edward Abbey didn't like to be known as a nature writer (he was far too  proud of his fiction), but after reading this book I would have to say he  is among the best. Before I read this book, I had never even considered  traveling to the Southwest, this book changed that, and the way I look at  nature forever. Abbey has rightfully been called the Thoreau of the  American West, this book more than any other shows us why. In Desert  Solitaire Abbey is at his best, doing for the Southwest what Thoreau did  for Concord and Walden. <br />   One of the great strenghts of this book is  the way Abbey weaves together such a wide array of subject matter, which  illustrates the seemingly endless variety of experience, in what is thought  by many to be an inhospitable wasteland. In a collection of breif chapters  Abbey touches on everthing from the incredible beauty of forgotton canyons,  the Southwest's past inhabitants, a feral horse, the Colorado river, the  perils of industrial tourism, and the story of a man who may have came to  die at the edge of a cliff.<br />   In this book you get a great sampling of  everything Abbey has to offer, from his stinging wit and dark humor, rage  and sadness concerning the destruction of nature, and finally to hope.  Edward Abbey has accomplished on the printed page, what Ansel Adams'  photography has done for the Southwest. And yes, both immortalize a time  and a place that are being destroyed forever, little by little, day by day,  but leaving for us a sad and yet wonderful record of what used to be, and  why what is left is worth saving. Desert Solitaire is both a celebration  and a lamentation for the disappearing landscapes, and hidden canyons that  Abbey chose as his own paradise, and if you read this book it may become  yours too. Like Abbey's says get out of your cars and crawl in the sand,  and EXPERIENCE what nature has to offer, you might just be surprised at  what you find.	2000-08-11
US	49294458	R2HQRPHED5H55G	0679736395	883298002	Darkness Visible: A Memoir of Madness	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Survivor Speaks	Before I read this book I would have to admit that my idea of depression  was naive to say the least. In this day and age it seems that depression  has become a catchall term for the psychological malaise of the masses.  Styron has succeded brilliantly in revealing the real face of depression  through his own harrowing journey into the depths of psychological agony.      Not only does Styron narrate his own descent into depression, but he  gives the reader a glimpse of how this disease has affected other writers,  driving many to suicide, and fatalistic behavior. Albert Camus's story is  especially poignant, as Styron relates how he was to meet with him in  France, but before the meeting came about Camus was killed in an automobile  accident. Styron suggests that this accident was perhaps what Camus wished,  for the driver of the car was known to be especially reckless, and prone to  accident.     In this short work he also relates the tragic stories of  Randall Jarrell, Abbie Hoffman, Primo Levi, and Romain Gary, illustrating  his kinship to other writers who have suffered from the same terrible  demons of depression. In the end, these relationships may have had a great  influence in allowing Styron to pull himself from the brink of suicide and  once again enjoy the light of the sun. This is a great work, one that gives  an accurate picture of a form of mental dis-ease that is to this day widely  misunderstood.	2000-08-04
US	49294458	R2W9PD77CL4CLF	1570270007	994512275	Future Primitive: And Other Essays (Autonomedia New Autonomy)	Books	5	23	26	N	N	A great contribution to radical thought	I have only recently became acquainted with John Zerzan, and this is the first work of his that I have read. Having said this, I would have to say  that this is one of the best works of Anarchy, and radical thought that has  been written since the turn of the century. I say this because of the high  level of intellectual development that this work reveals. Zerzan, instead  of using anarchic stereotypes, instead writes with wit, humor, originality,  and passion; as he delves into areas such as archeaology, anthropology,  political science, and even postmodern philosphy. In doing so he  illustrates the importance and veracity of anarchism, with a complex and  intelligent argument that is hard to refute.<br />  This is not just a great  work of anarchist thought it is a tour de force of intellectual vigor and  philosophical investigation. To anyone who says anarchy is dead, this book  will go along way in changing their minds. It might even transform the way  you look at the world. Zerzan is possibly the most significant anarchist  thinker since the likes of Emma Goldman and Prince Petr Kropotkin, to which  his wide intellectual breadth bears a great resemblance. This is a great  book that should be read by anyone concerned with the future of the world,  and humanity's place in it.	2000-08-03
US	49294458	R1C8VZW0WFST0W	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	5	12	17	N	N	The Power of Logic	Why I am Not A Christian is not only a critique of superstition and ignorance, it is an outstanding lesson in logic. Unfortunately, this is one thing many christians care little about, all that matters is the security  of an illusion, and the promise of ever-lasting life. Russell takes these  issues and addresses them, not as an enemy of christianity, but simply as a  thinker examining the availible evidence.<br />   His arguments are easy to  follow and accessible to any reader, all one has to do is examine the  examples used. In his examination of the bible he points out only a few of  the many contradictions, fallacies and illogical events portrayed. In so  doing he examines such things as the various ontological arguments, the  institution of the churh, the character and originality of Christ, and the  psychology of belief. <br />   It soon becomes clear that if one uses reason,  no other conclussion can be arrived at: belief in christianity is  illogical, thoughtless, and merely a rejection of reality. It is Under the  pressure of such logic, that people retreat into the ignorance and denial  of responsibility that religion provides. As Russell states Christianity is  the religion of fear, and fear is one of the most powerful forces in the  human mind. Throw in a heaping portion of guilt and you then have the  recipe for willing submission.<br />   It is also worth mentioning that  Bertrand Russell was persecuted for his beliefs, and even denied a teaching  position because of pressure from religious fundamentalists. This more than  anything illustrates the tactics of those who are lacking in reason. If one  cannot disprove an argument, censorship is the usual method of suppression,  and as history shows this is the usual response to critics of religion.  Simple logic is the greatest asset to those fighting the forces of  ignorance, in this book Bertrand Russell has provided a great example.  Without logic and freethought humanity will always be enslaved, thisbook  is for those who have the courage to think for themselves, and then come to  their own conclussions.	2000-07-30
US	49294458	R3IIGZR7Q745B6	0879755784	793031179	Holy Horrors: An Illustrated History of Religious Murder and Madness	Books	5	37	42	N	N	The Crimes of Religion	This book is a very useful and enlightening guide to the history of religion, and its accompanying violence. In this expose Haught plays no favorites in exposing the crimes and inhumanities of Hindus, Moslems,  Sikhs, Jews, and of course Catholics and Protestants. One of the striking  things about this book is that it provides a revealing look into the nature  of religious violence, and offers some valuable insights into the  continuing religious violence and genocide today. Although practically  everyone knows about the extermination of the Jews in WWII, few people  think about why it happened. After reading this book, you will have a much  better understanding about this horrible chapter in history. Afterall  Germany was not an Atheistic country, it was strongly Protestant, what  happened was the horrible result of centuries of built up hatred, caused  ultimately by religion.	2000-07-30
US	49294458	R3HP9LKF81F42C	1878825070	968038209	The Chomsky Trilogy: Secrets, Lies and Democracy/The Prosperous Few and the Restless Many/What Uncle Sam Really Wants (The Real Story)	Books	5	40	44	N	N	All the things they didn't want you to know	Noam Chomsky is arguably one of the most important thinkers of the last 100 years (he was voted 9th all time in a recent poll of college professors and academicians, just behind Aristotle). So why have most Americans never  heard of him? Read this set of books and the answer will be quite clear. In  Europe practically every educated person knows this American philosopher by  name, but here in America the rich and powerful would rather that you did  not.<br />  In this collection of writings Chomsky exposes the dark side of  American history. Backed with indisputable facts and extensive research  these books systematically detail the crimes of the corporate/military  industrial complex. Chomsky delves into the hidden agendas and backroom  dealmaking behind everything from NAFTA, Desert Strom, The War on Drugs,  Corporate Media Manipulation and much, much more. <br />   These books will  fill you with sadness, outrage and even hope. But, after reading them your  outlook on America will never be the same. This book is not an attack  against America and Americans, it is instead a warning against the hidden  powers that are attempting to destroy the most basic ideas of freedom  itself. In writing these books, he has both provided some much needed  historical balance, and provided some suggestions and ideas concerning how  we, the average citizens, can achieve real social change. Chomsky also  provides a list of resources and info about getting involved with an  exhaustive list of organizations that are &quot;working to make the world a  better place&quot;. In the end, all these books can do is inform and  educate, it is up to each individual to do what they can for real social  change; a book is only the beginning.	2000-07-30
US	49294458	R2ZN2FENZW4ZQX	0679442766	687421275	The Consolations of Philosophy	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Philosophy in perspective	The Consolations of Philosphy is a great book, that bridges the gap between the abstract image many people have of philosophers and what they were like as human beings. De Bottom, while considering each philosophers  importance and influence on Western thought, also paints a collection of  touching portraits that bring them down from the pedestals by giving us an  intimate look into the people and places behind the ideas.     After  finishing this book you will never look at Socrates, or Schopenhauer the  same way again. In the portraits that De Bottom gives us, we are reminded  of both the importance of philosophy, and the unhearlded, events that  produced it. In Reading these stories you are invited to take a rare  glimpse into the minds of some of the most important thinkers of Western  culture, and in the process, gain a better understanding of what philosophy  really means, not only to the world but to oneself.	2000-07-30
US	49294458	RLIIHKCLFXFW0	0820320064	650720475	Cultural Theory and Popular Culture: A Reader	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A very helpful resource	This volume is an excellent introduction to some of the most important trends of 20th century literary and cultural studies.  Beginning with an excerpt from Matthew Arnold's &quot;Culture and Anarchy&quot;, Storey takes  the reader on an informative tour of some of the  most important literary  and cultural theorists of the past 150 years. <br />   CT&amp;PC also  represents a remarkably broad survey considering the amount of subject  matter included. In this informative and balanced edition there are  chapters on Culturalism, Structualism and Poststructuralism, Marxism,  Feminism, Postmodernism and The Politics of the Popular, in which he  attempts to illustrate the newest theoretical trends, and where they may be  heading in the future.<br />   The way the book progresses is very helpful in  allowing the reader to see just how different perspectives in theory are  interconnected. Storey's edition gives the reader enough articles to gain  some real understanding, without overwhelming one that may not be familiar  with a particular theoretical perspective. The articles chosen generally  range from 10 to 20 pages, and are tightly focused and helpful in giving a  short, but rich intro. to the given theoretical perspective that they are  represenative of.<br />   This book is a great guidebook for anyone  intertested in the latest trends in literary and cultural theory, along  with the so-called culture wars. The only drawbacks to this book is that a  few of the articles take excerpts from a long work and then put them  together in a way that makes them confusing and difficult to undertsatand.  And secondly, although there are notes to each article, more are needed,  especially in the area of terminology and background information. Besides  these minor quibbles this is an excellent collection of articles; a great  resource for the student, professor, or anyone else interested in literary  and cultural theory.	2000-07-29
US	49294458	RUUX1A9EXTHZL	0802132758	512368592	Rosencrantz and Guildenstern Are Dead	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Just when you thought they were gone	In this play Tom Stoppard has pulled two minor characters from Hamlet and given us a glimpse of what may lie behind the common exteriors of everyday life. What is important about this is that Stoppard is showing us that the  lives of common people can also make for some great literature too.<br />    First of all I am not going to slam other reviews, I am simply going to  state my opinion of the play. I think that I understand existensialism and  its major philosophical trends, therefore I would tend to say that this  play definately fits into what has been called the Theater of the Absurd,  which in turn owes much to the thinking of Camus. Having said this I have  to say that this play has some definate similarities with the works of  Beckett, especially Godot, but also that of Harold Pinter's, &quot;The  Birthday Party&quot;, especially in terms of dialogue, plot direction, and  character development.<br />   R &amp; G despite these similarites, and  probably because of them seems at times to be conscious of breaking new  ground and testing the limits of absurdity and understanding. Symbolism,  while not as obvious in this play, seems to be, nonetheless, much more  important to the action and meaning of the play than it is in other works  of this genre. Whereas Godot seems to stress the repetitiveness of  dialogue, R&amp;G is suggestive of just the opposite. It is instead in the  lack of confidence of what each character says, and the way that their  opinions seem to cahange with the situation, which illustartes the  uncertainty of meaning and life. Although all these plays seem to be  focused on the nature of existence and its meaning to humanity, the  differing ways that it is approached and interpreted make them all vastly  unique, puzzleing and intriguing reads.<br />  The thing that is perhaps most  different, is the way that Stoppard utilizes the thought of Artaud and his  idea of the Theater of Cruelty, to at times completely breakdown the  barriers betweenthe audience and the actors. It follows then, that if one  wants to get the full effect of this play it has to be seen live. But, then  again how many people get that chance, thus, this book is the second best  thing. I would only suggest paying very close attention to the stage  directions, set and scenery, as they are much more important in this play  than they are in others.<br />   Finally, simply read R&amp;G for the fun of  it, you certtainly will not be disappointed. In this play Stoppard has gone  along way in breaking down the barriers between the writer and the average  reader. Because, it is only when the reader is interested and involved that  a work will be a success. With originality, humor, and an important theme  Stoppard has acheived this goal beautifully, giving us all a realistic  glimpse into the complex drama of human life.	2000-07-27
US	49294458	R25OJN9TJEQPOR	0679720227	169376079	The Fall	Books	5	41	46	N	N	Camus at his best	Aside from being Camus' crowning literary achievement, this work could  also be viewed as one of the most important works of twentieth century  literatue. It is also perhaps the most representational fictional work in  the existensialist genre, far surpassing the work of Sartre. The Fall,  aside from being a great work, is a masterful technical achievment, and a  lesson in character development and dialogue.         The plot revolves  around a Parisian Lawyer by the name of Jean-Baptiste Clamence and his  conversation with an anonymous man at an Amsterdam bar. As the story  progresses the reader is gradually overwhelmed by the lawyers increasingly  serious confessions. With no scenery to distract you the intensity of the  conversation grows with each admission.<br />   In his simple confession and  out pouring of emotion we see a successful, seemingly content man,  gradually transformed and reduced into an alienated, and shattered human  being, a mere shell of the individual that he once strived to be. This book  is similar to &quot;The Stranger&quot; in the way that the psychological  tension continues to build, moving towards the final disheartening  enlightenment. But, unlike &quot;The Stranger&quot; there is no closure for  the subject or release from torment, only endless confession; not only for  his individual crimes, but for those of all humanity.    One can only  speculate on how Camus would have continued this line of inquiry if he  hadn't been tragically killed in an automobile accident at the age of 46.  As it is we can only continue to enjoy and contemplate what he left behind.  For as long as literature exists writers will continue to delve into the  recesses of the human psyche and attempt to provide a flicker of light in,  an all to often, dark world. After reading this book I can say that Camus  accomplished this like few writers ever had, and will always be a sobering  light amid the confusion of an often absurd world.	2000-07-27
US	49294458	R2F6867BWWD62F	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	5	27	31	N	N	Freedom and Wilderness	This is the tragic stroy of Christopher McCandless, a man who was willing to sacrafice everything for a chance at experiencing life as few people ever do. One day Chris, or Alexander Supertramp as he preferred to be  called, decided to cut all ties with the modern world and live in absolute  freedom.         Jon Krakauer beautifully narrates the reader through  Alexander's ill-fated adventure that finally ended in an abandoned bus in  the wilds of Alaska. Along the way, the reader is introduced to a  collection of colorful people who have also sought escape from the trials  of daily life. These glimpses help to put Alexander's uncommon desire to  break from modern society into its proper perspective.        Into the Wild  is also a story about one family's love for their son, and the search for  understanding and closure concerning his eventual death. In the process the  reader is given great insight into the mind, and possible motives for his  desire to escape. But, as we find out this is not just the story of one  family, but, the story of many people and families that Alexander touched  in his odyessy across America.         Despite the fact that Alexander's  quest cost him his life, I would dare to say that during those four brief  months he felt more alive and experienced more than most people do in a  entire lifetime. His warm smile on the opening page is a testament to the  happiness, and contentment that he experienced in his self-imposed  solitude. Finally, this is not merely a book about the tragedy of death, it  is instead a celebration of nature and one mans quest to experience it.	2000-07-23
US	49294458	R2AK7DVP5ZT68G	0879759267	586242966	The Encyclopedia of Biblical Errancy	Books	5	24	34	N	N	Inspired Words?	This book is simply a refutation of the bible as literal fact, and divine inspiration. Mr. Mckinsey, in this work, finds little need to make complex theological arguments, he instead simply uses the bible itself to expose  its own falibility. Throughout 25 brief, yet powerful chapters Mckinsey  shows us why the &quot;bible is simply the the flawed writings of some very  fallible men&quot;. Proving in the end that simple logic is the best  defense against the raving, illogical arguments so common to the  fundamentalist mind. This book is for anyone who wants to examine the bible  in a fair and logic way, one no focused on the literary value of the book,  but on the destructive nature of its message. Mormonism and Islam are also  discussed along with the seemingly countless versions of the old and new  testaments. As Mckinsey states, see why in the end, &quot;the bible is its  own worst enemy&quot;.	2000-07-21
US	49294458	REGIC8YQPTT0I	0679731806	19728425	The Professor's House (Vintage Classics)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	A surprising favorite	I have to admit that when I was assigned this book for an Amer. Lit. class I was anything but excited at the prospect. A further contribution to my misguided dread was born from the rather poor synopsis of the book on the  back cover which fails miserably in &quot;selling&quot; the great story  hidden within its pages. Yet another example of why one shouldn't judge a  book by its cover. It is far more than just another story of inward  rebellion and emotional &quot;renewal&quot;; it is instead, a story about  the American dream, the family, higher education, friendship, nature, and  the elusiveness of American history. The way that Cather blends this varied  subject matter is a testament to her great talent as a writer, but more  impressively, this book bears witness to her keen insight into the deepest  recesses of the American psyche. The story centers around an aging  professor(St. Peter) , and his close and yet mysterious friend Tom Outland.  Complicating this is the professor's strained relationship with his own  family,(his two daughter's and their husbands and his wife). Cather's  nonlinear narrative of their interactions and the various relationships  that result works to pull the reader ever deeper into a work that soon  spirals out of the professor's small study into a world of arid mesas,  mysterious strangers, ancient skeletons and forgotten yesterdays. In the  end, this story could be seen as an exposition on the American dream, one  that probes deep below the surfaces of what that dream entails, and what is  lost to acheive it.	2000-07-20
US	49294458	R3P11WVNME7AFC	0380978490	389271937	Duty: A Father, His Son, And The Man Who Won The War	Books	1	9	55	N	N	Duty or blind conformity	Although I did find Greene's style of folksy reminiscence cathcy, the horrific subject and the way he treats it more than offset any redeeming quality that this book might have had. It is about a man that caused the  deaths of over 200,000 people, and 47 American's who were being held  prisoner in the city when the bomb was dropped. I just think that calling  someone who did that a hero is a bit dangerous. Greene also suggests that  this violent act &quot;won the war&quot;, when practically every military  scholar who has looked at this has said that the war was already over,  Japan only wanted an honorable end to it. This book is not about heroism it  is about revenge, and the tragedy of &quot;just following orders&quot;.  This incident is no different from what happened in Germany, Italy or even  Japan in WWII. All were just following orders and the most horrible  slaughter the world has ever known was the result. One should instead read,  &quot;Hitler's Willing Executioners&quot; or &quot;Hitler's Pope&quot;, at  least those come closer to the truth.	2000-07-20
US	49294458	R2AE1ZQZT71IMZ	0060931671	183823737	The Crying of Lot 49 (Perennial Classics)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Welcome to the postmodern world...	If you've always heard the term postmodern and wondered what it meant this book is for you. But, this book is definately not for everyone, the plot is unique to say the least, and the characters are not what you will find in  most novels, but then again, neither is the intellectual stimulation. In  only a little over 100 pages, Thomas Pynchon has written an accessibly  managable intro. to postmodern literature. Although this book is rather  dense, and is filled with obscure facts and information from seemingly  every conceivable specialty of knowledge, it is a great introduction to one  of the most misunderstood genres of modern literature. Just be sure to keep  a dictionary and encyclopedia handy.    The plot revolves around the  exciting and often bizarre experiences and travels of Oedipa Maas, after  she is named executor of an ex-lovers will. In her adventures she uncovers  a surrealistic world where everything that she has ever learned seems to  fall into question. It is a world where nazi doctors, secret societies,  papal misdeeds, anarchist dreams, and deranged outcasts all come out of the  shadows to invade the &quot;typical&quot; suburban landscape of an average  American housewife.    This book is about uncovering the realities, or lack  thereof, that most people would want to stay hidden, or at the least  forgotton. It is about questioning the assumptions that we all hold dear,  even if it means coming to terms with a world that is without meaning,  without order, and most of all without a coherent design.     This is a  book with many questions to be answered, so if you would like an  envigorating intellectual challenge this book will not dissappoint.	2000-07-20
US	49294458	R274RLUH43LO8Q	0865474613	67944039	The Box Man	Books	5	18	19	N	N	What's in a box	If you like Kafka, Pynchon, Beckett, or Burroughs you will probably like  this novel. This is a work that will occupy your mind long after you have  finished the last page. Its greatness lies in Abe's keen ability to  personify the darkest dreams and innermost desires of modern humanity. The  main character, the Box Man, could be anyone. He is merely an anonymous  person who yearns for escape from the dehumanizing conditions of modern  life. The plot is interesting, alluring, and above all puzzling, without  being inaccessible to the average reader. This is a work to be read and  reread, and for those who take the time there will be few who are  disappointed.	2000-07-19
US	49294458	R2SUGBLI1O0S6W	0679728759	53277980	Blood Meridian: Or the Evening Redness in the West	Books	5	7	10	N	N	a false book is no book at all	McCarthy, through a grotesque and often brutal narrative, presents the reader with a view of history that many Americans would like to forget: i.e.the systematic slaughter of Native Americans and the destruction of their culture. Based on historic evidence and newspaper reports of the time the novel follows the life of a nameless frontiersman as he travels West in search of the American dream.   What he finds, however, is a dream soaked in blood senseless violence. Over the course of the novel the nameless traveler embarks on a filibustering expedition into Mexico, encounters and joins a ruthless band of bounty hunters, and struggles for survival against the forces of man and nature alike. Wandering the great expanses of the southwest, through the eyes of this child of god, McCarthy draws an indelible portrait of human degeneracy and the exercise of regenerative violence.     The terrifying vision of the past invoked in this novel requires the reader to reassess their understanding of America, and the way in which it came into being. Although this book contains many violent scenes of the most grotesque and graphic nature, through his amazing use of language and imagery McCarthy uses them as a means of exploring the ways in which historical texts are constructed. This work is a monumental achievement that through the melding of fact and fiction allow us access to a truth that somehow transcends history and takes us to a place where word, image, memory and flesh are pushed to the limits in a way that no reader will ever be able to forget.	1999-12-09
US	49294458	R293IYVKO5ICI0	0312143427	284457915	From Freedom To Slavery: The Rebirth of Tyranny in America	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Deconstructing America's False Reality	This is a book that will change your outlook on life in America. It is the plea of one man, crying out against the sytematic infiltration of corporate power and greed into every area of life. In this courageous work, Gerry Spence takes on what he calls, the &quot;oligarchical&quot; power of the  corporate world, exposing its manipulation of even our most personal  beliefs. On issues from the environment, police brutality, polital  corruption and homelessness, to the dominating influence that this power  has on the individual level, he leaves no stone unturned in his search for  justice in America. Anyone who is interested in the social problems of our  country will find this book a great source of knowledge, insight, and even  outrage. This book simply asks the reader to look at American society as it  is, not as it was taught to many of us in public school, and then think  about how these problems can be overcome.	1999-12-09
