US	49297842	R1VMNH0S9C8L6G	1931839026	952748412	SR-71 Flight Manual	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The real stuff, the best ever!	This publication by Government Reprints Press is the real Flight Manual studied by the &quot;Sled Drivers&quot; (as SR71's pilots are known), in fact the very first page shows the declassification act. In the following pages, the volume gives you all the details you need to know about SR71. The layout is the standard pilot manual as published by USAF logistical agencies, giving basic description of systems configurations and operations; normal, abnormal and emergency flight procedures and checklists, perfomance charts and diagrams.<BR>Why should every SR71's buffs read this stuff? Well, for the enthusiast of its history, the book is the best compendium to P.F.Crickmore's &quot;Lockheed SR71: the secret missions exposed&quot;, whose treatise I believe is the best paper about development, operational and technical history. Several other titles are available on the subject; nevertheless, the main source of aicraft perfomance and operative data is the present manual.<BR> For engineering students, it is the best case of pratical exercise about aircraft perfomance evaluation. This is the true work produced by the test engineers and test pilots, covering all aspects of flight envelope, not to mention the fact that the plane was actually a test bed of high speed aerodynamics and structures; many discoveries (made during the test career of the plane) are now part of aeronautical knowledge that every student covers in an aerospace course.<BR>For any pilot, curiosity should be completely satisfied knowing how a good bunch of &quot;elected&quot; pilots flew the &quot;beast&quot; and how demanding were the handling qualities of this futuristic aircraft!	2002-11-28
US	49297842	RLQEY8RT4P9CC	0691058725	861348174	Quaternions and Rotation Sequences	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Clear and very readable	As a \\"primer\\", this book is right on target. The theory presentation is truly legible, with remarkable notes on each page, just collateral to the main text, fixing notions or fulfilling the contents with concise demonstrations.<br />The first chapters are a fast, but complete review of algebraic basics, good for an expert and a solid start for a novice (albeit it is instrumental to the succesive pages, refer to other specific books for consolidating your preparation). Then the volume start to unleash the true topics, showing the mathematical properties of quaternions, as a rotation operator and related geometry, to end up in a well suited exposition of spherical geometry, calculus and pertubation theory (linked to dynamics and kinematics fields).<BR>Quite pleasant to discover is the applications section, especially computer graphics, while its airspace use is just introduced. Nevertheless, the author has neatly achieved his goal.	2002-09-14
US	49297842	R62H6WUPNNQGE	1552095460	693173728	Rugby Skills, Tactics and Rules	Books	3	7	9	N	N	A nice start for novices	The book is very handy and actually has nice photographs, but it is targeted to a novice or a \\"fresh start\\" rugby enthusiast. Keeping this point in mind, it is a remarkable work, both in style and guise, because skills, tactics and rules are clearly explained.<br />The text is simple but quite serious, hence being rugby an \\"informal\\" sport, a better explanation should be devised for some particular events during the match. The lineout is a typical example: in fact the rule, which permit an aided 6-foot plus gentleman to hover in the air waiting for the oval, must have been thought up by a three-quarter who flew Harriers (the famous vertical landing fighter airplane!). This strange engagement is characterized by a devastatingly human exertion, that is the pathological damage this may cause the unsuspecting jumper's groin when his shorts is pulled sharply upwards by two herculean \\"thrusters\\"! So far for the tactics!!<br />Another amusing rule too seriously explained is when the front rows collapse during a set scrum. The refree (the usual scapegoat for italian fans!!!) gives a penalty against the prop that goes down first. He may be the less potent of the two, the more tired or simply could quite easily have slipped, but no!, the sanction is quick,steadfast and irrevocable: he did on purpose, shame on him! Since the international refrees are not robust specimen of human race, with large diameter trunks and necks, they wrongfully suppose that above huge necks there is little capacity for gray matter. So the modern prop will use this misconception to his advantage when there is a scrum nearby the Opposition try line. Thus, by all means, usually illegal, he will check the opposite prop's thrust while collapsing, therefore automatically gaining a penalty kick from the best position ever. That's what we call a teamwork!!<br />That said, I will recommend this volume to anyone interested in this wonderful game, but getting in touch with its rules for the first time.	2002-09-07
US	49297842	R5KEN5VV27WW	1893472027	147205689	Saturn V - America's Apollo Moon Rocket	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A good report	This edition should be rated 4 stars for its contents, while the layout needs some comment. Really, the iussue is just a good presentation, but a deeper analysis of the missile requires accesses to an enormous amount of documents available only at manufacturer's databank or universities' libraries. So, keeping these facts in mind, the reader finds plenty of diagrams, schematics, charts and systems technical description well worth the price. The written part deals with design evolution then, for each stage, it relates details such as plumbing, tanks, structures, umbelicals fittings, engine components, instruments units and, finally, production, assembly plus launch facilities.<br />Since rocket theory is well examined by many books (a good benchmark work is Sutton's Rocket Propulsion Elements), this report is a pratical complement for curious undergraduate students or highly educated (in science) space buffs.<br />The other side of the coin refers to the volume format. Actually it should earn a value of merit of 2/3 stars because it is not a anastatic reprint but a very good photocopy in a ring binder, giving, lets say, a \\"professional look\\" to your bookshelf. Consequently, if you like an elagant tome in the rack, this is not the case.	2002-08-01
US	49297842	R38I7Y578XR1LU	087994000X	623886989	Flight Manual for B-24 Liberator (American Flight Manuals)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Real stuff for WWII bomber enthusiast!	Every B24's buff must have one! First of all, iy's my opinion that anyone interested in historical technicalities should have a book on aircraft design and production evolution; then he 'd move to original reference as maintenance or flight manuals to get a deep kwnoledge from inside. <br />This book is about the &quot;D&quot; version( glazed nose),widely employed at early stages of II war on every theater and absolute protagonist of the famous operation &quot;Tidal Wave&quot;, the strike on Romanian oil fields near Ploesti. The type ranked second in the production run, being outnumbered by the most famous &quot;J&quot; version (Consolidated or Emerson 2 gun nose turret). Here you can find normal and emergency checklists,systems description and above all, true aircraft perfomances (maps and charts available in original forties' format!). And if you are a WWII sim buff, this reference should help you to get the real touch with handling and flying characteristics. The lattice glass nose compartment lacked a power turret (being retrofitted later, especially in the Pacific squadrons) but at least this version was the easiest to fly. In fact the &quot;Libs&quot; never get rid of handling and foward visibility problems, these were exarcerbated by adopting a nose turret, weighty and inducing excessive drag. So the &quot;D&quot; models were &quot;user-friendly&quot; only for the bombardier position, lacking defensive armament and small field of fire in frontal sectors. Enjoy the discover!	2002-07-29
US	49297842	R3QKPMIWRCYAXQ	1550462938	808202572	The Arrow; Avro CF-105 Mk 1; Pilot's Operating Instructions and RCAF Testing/Basing Plans	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A faithful replica edition	After dealing with many books dedicated to the &quot;Arrow&quot;, I almost stumbled on this unique pubblication, and it was great surprise.<br />The book is a reprint of 1958 Aircraft Manual; actually the preliminary operating instructions of the J-75 powered Arrow's prototypes. In fact the procedures reported in the text are the provisory checklist , since the testing phase was in full swing and the civil and military pilots were expanding the flight envelope. Nevertheless, every main subject is presented ( similar to a final production aircraft manual ),along with noteworthy documents. Many technical details are available, covering aircraft systems, equipments, normal and emergency procedures, aircraft data and diagrams, perfomance charts and flight envelopes at 3 significant altitudes. Maybe this is the definitive book on Arrow's aircraft data and the best complement to any study describing this cutting edge design and his untimely cancellation. Indeed, the Arrow was exceeding the RCAF specifications during the test phase with provisionally powered prototypes , since the production was planned fitting with Orenda Iroquis engine. The new powerplant itself was living up with perfomance expectations, being successfully tested in flight with a modified B47.<br />Curiously, in the foreword the author explains that the original instructions were classified &quot;secret&quot; and iussued to both company and military pilots.Someone will speculate ironically that the classification was not intended to preclude intelligence by foreign agencies, but to hide the program achievements from Canadians to justify its demise.	2001-09-29
US	49297842	R2AGR7KUG4DW99	0393315436	814647038	The Death of Hitler: The Full Story with New Evidence from Secret Russian Archives	Books	2	2	6	N	N	Interesting attempt, but somehow disappointing	This book is written as a detective story and it is an interesting attempt to solve the misteries of Hitler's final days in Berlin. The Soviet style of segregating every piece of intelligence covered the last days and, of course, the investigations that followed the bunker capture. Despite the end of the cold war, the evidence is still fragmented and this book is an attempt to show a collection of definitive data. In this respect the book is quite interesting due to the good job made by the authors in collecting facts. Unfortunately the style is too journalistic, therefore a little dissapointing, since the narrative is sometime erratic and the plot is interspersed by minute informations of little value. So the work comes close to that sort of &quot;light&quot; reading about the history of the Fuhrer demise, while a more scholarlike approach is needed to deal with this matter, potentially embarassing for the many of politically &quot;uncorrect&quot; iussues still pending in the aftermath of IIWW.	2001-06-21
US	49297842	RM0C0DBEQI3T4	0521478529	315068474	Flight Mechanics of High-Performance Aircraft (Cambridge Aerospace Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good value for a small book	This small book purpose is to cover the most important aspects of flight mechanics for advanced undergraduate students. To keep pace with this goal, the mathematical level is pretty accessible and never demanding ( just basic derivatives and almost no integral, the few ones have solutions described in the text ). The good facet is the analysis of supersonic cruise of airplanes and the perfomance of hypervelocity reentry vehicles. Since other textbooks are scanty on the matter, albeit more advanced in mathematical presentation, this volume is a good complement to a course textbook in those fields.<br />If the reader is looking for a comprehensive text, this volume will provide many answers to his/her curiosity. If the student target is a particular suject, more specific treatise is needed. The reading will be of interest for professional pilots with a taste for theoretical insight of aircraft perfomance.	2001-06-19
US	49297842	R4P55GQ3EKXWR	1854095242	961652541	King George V Class Battleships	Books	5	22	22	N	N	An engrossing history of KGV class.	This book covers the operational history of the King George V class, the last battleships to see combat service in the Royal Navy. To author's credit, the many shortcomings that plagued the class during operational life are thoroughly investigated. Tarrant describes how the units were built according to design limitations enforced by the Washington treaty (imposing unsatisfactory trade-offs), and the Admiralty's incapacity to freeze the ships' basic design. In fact the Royal Navy went on the naval building holiday without an alternate plan, relinquishing the expertise that proved to be so vital at dockyards when the work resumpted. To complicate matters further, the Navy had controversial attitude towards the balance of armor and armament; it was never satifactorily settled. During the description of engagements and missions operated by the class, the author is quite steadfast in showing defects that have to be traced to these original misconceptions. A second point is highlighted by the author in the episode of the doomed sortie of Prince of Wales and in the closing chapters dedicated to Pacific operations. Tarrant is very clever when he explains all the failures leading to the loss of P.of W. in Singapore. The central evaluation of the british policy is summarized by the statement &quot; to have a two Hemisphere Empire defended by one Hemisphere Navy&quot;. The extended logistic lines and the composition of the Pacific fleet were the key elements in shaping the secondary role, albeit an important one, played by the Britons in the theater.<br />The book comes pretty close to be the definitive history of the KGV class. The authoritative text is always attentive to human drama behind the engagements and the fatigues endured by the crews. Tarrant's narrative style is highly readable and absorbing, indulging in the magnitude of war at sea without loosing the sight of accademic treatise. An engrossing reference in recent British naval history.	2001-06-18
US	49297842	R31CACVE54OH0F	0760305552	460965349	XB-70 Valkyrie: The Ride to Valhalla	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Only history of the program	The XB70 has been a great mistery for a long time. Its secrecy was largely due to the great leap in aeronautical science when the technological race between US and former CCCP was at its peak. Designed successor to B52, the XB70 has a troubled story from the start, its fortunes were forever sealed by McNamara's will to terminate the program. The book is about the history of political tribulations at all levels (USAF comands and interservice rivalry plus adverse lobbying in the Kennedy Administration and in the Congress, the last being not enough supportive). A respectable critical survey on program managment is given, providing a chronological description of machinations that overshadowed even the final experimental program.<br />Many details are covered but always from the historical point of view. The volume does not provide many technical facts and it still lacks a description of the airplane engine and systems, besides a precise perfomance summary is missing.  The most important facet is the conversation record of the crash (XB70 ship AV002 and NF104 n°813). If the reader is looking for some Washington politics insight or behind the scene work, the narrative style is remarkable, but if he is looking for technicalities he has to wait for a new release or new bunch of declassified data.	2001-06-13
US	49297842	R3QXIUBSKMP1TL	0750923938	387064704	Concorde: The Inside Story	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An insight into technical tribulations of Concorde project	&quot;Concorde&quot; provides an engrossing and objective assessment of the famous program by Cpt Trubshaw, notwithstanding his close association with the entire project. In fact he was the Chief Test Pilot for the british side on the first joint-venture (Aerospatiale &amp; British Aeronautical Corp.) in the european aviation history. His drive, energy and enthusiasm are widely recognized since he remained a key member of the Flight Test programme during development phase and even after the aircraft entered airline service.<br />His professionality and objectivity in the book are backed by his opinions about the flawed concepts that affected commercial success of the whole programme. Some of them are strictly technical, in fact an instance is given by the avionic layout: to stay in touch with the 50-50 responsability of design and production shares, the inertial navigation system was totally new and prone to fail during alignment phase(it was actively discouraged aircraft entry during the phase), while airlines wanted off-the-shelf equipment because they already had them in planes and spares. Another example is the moving map display debate that was engaged between french and british counterparts. Trubshaw points out the entire matter was nosense since most of flights were planned over oceans (avoiding sonic booms over populated territories) and the task of keeping it uptodate(over a featureless area)would have been enormous. Another nightmare was the autopilot-autothrust system that were unable to cope with unexpected large temperature shear aloft, inducing almost uncontrollable climb/descent, this behavior required a long testing phase, being unacceptable for airline service. The complexity of design is well explained, showing the long experimental trials to get powerplant reliable since the engine-intake matching was a real challenge(nice descriptions are reported in Seddon&amp;Goldsmith'&quot;Intake aerodynamic&quot; for aeronautical engineer students). One of the greatest factor affecting the project was the lack of a firm customer from the outset. Since no airline was a player from the beginning, Aerospatiale&amp;Bac went on to start afresh with everything, not employing proven equipment(just the opposite of Skunk Works' policy of off-the-shelf apparatus when innovation was not required), so they lenghtened the development phase and they forced airlines to reinvent crew training, raising development&amp;operating costs to unbearable levels. Despite tecnical details, the book is amusing for the great human touch of the author. His typical british sense of humor is always ready to induce some smiles at the authoritative content, delighting readers' attention to events. It was real fun when the author delivers the story of one of top manager of Bac effusively welcoming the first gentleman joining in at a reception for a demonstration flight, just to discover that the poor chap was the piano player hired for the evening. Another story is related to the rapturous welcome occurred at Sidney although the airport fire brigade got rather excited when the tailbumper threw off some sparks at touchdown. Its final outcome prompted a design modification, encouraging a small wheel on bumper in production aircraft to avoid fire tracks' pursuings on runway during landing roll.<br />&quot;Concorde&quot; is really a deep insight in the project history. Vivid memories are supported by a fascinating selection of photographs of the aircraft, many taken from the author personal collection. A highly recommended portrait of political&amp;industrial aeronautical endeavor in aviation litterature!	2001-06-12
US	49297842	R1IK8QRX7DWTAW	0887408214	29139163	An 01-45Hd-1 Pilot's Handbook Navy Models F4U-5, -5N, -5Nl, -5P Aircraft (Schiffer Military/Aviation History)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A rarity in technical publications	This facsimile reprint is the actual flight manual for F4U-5 Corsair, US Navy fighter aircraft. It is the Pilot's Handbook as published in 1951, when the plane was at the end of his career, following its tremendous success in II World War (it is basically the same type flown by Marine Major Pappy Boyngton, leader of the famous Squadron VFM 214 &quot;Black Sheeps&quot;). The handbook is a wonderful source of informations because the layout is  forerunner of modern military aircraft manuals; as for its contents we can find all the details of cockpit arrangements, normal and emergency checklists, several descriptions on operational equipments such as the radar system used for the Night Fighter version. Finally, for the technicalities maniac, real operating instructions charts (referring to external load configuration), power plant and flying perfomance charts are available in appendix.<br />This is a useful tool for the warbird enthusiast to understand the aircraft achievements as narrated by many volumes such as &quot; The Skull &amp; Crossbones Squadron VF 17 in IIWW&quot; or &quot;Whistling Death-The test pilot story of the F4U Corsair&quot;, and to explain the longevity and versatility of this well-known airplane.	2001-06-06
US	49297842	R17S90MFZ596RF	0470235985	515273353	Performance and Stability of Aircraft	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very specific, but a great work	As a reference on the specific subject of perfomance and stability of aircraft, this volume has neatly reached its purposes. The book is well structured and easy to read (the author's hope of a novel-like read is almost achieved, but sorry chaps, no happy ending, we have still to pass examinations), despite the maths being quite advanced. In fact equations are increasingly difficult, necessitating a good background in calculus, differential equations, vector &amp; tensor analysis. Nevertheless, gradual and acceptable complications are progressively arranged, since each passage is clearly explained as well as the approximations and terms elision. Worked examples are very consistent and opportunely integrated in the text. They help solving some pratical problems; but above all they are efficaciously used to show the dimensions of physical phenomena (good illustrations as well). In the end , its exhaustive content provides a good picture of all characteristics of perfomance and stability requirements in aircraft design. So it is recommended for engineering students and industry professionals alike, but it is a little bit complicate as a reference source for professional flying schools or for average commercial pilot.	2001-04-16
US	49297842	R2VJRQHBS5XFJS	1557502633	183418943	U.S. Submarines Through 1945: An Illustrated Design History (Illustrated Design Histories)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Outstanding treatise	If this is not the definitive book, it must come pretty close. As one of the most respected naval analyst, the author covers the birth and development of submersible ships and submarines with minute details from their inceptions to the II WW latest types.<br />The text is extraordinarily well researched, reflecting its scholar-like approach to the subject; nevertheless it is an easy and relaxing read, expecially if you take into account the deep level of accuracy and precise reconstruction of historical events. Specific aspects of submarine technology are carefully dissected: the naval yard organization, the US Navy Bureaus capacity and their (obviously) rivalry in design competence, the development of powerplants and hulls. A particular attention is dedicated to submarine perfomances evolution, how they were estimated conducting tradeoff studies and inspecting foreign submarines and equipment. In a well orchestrated narration, the book provides a detailed insight into technical and political machinations of subs building programs, explaining the different (to tell the truth I should say conflicting) opinions of political leadership, Staff strategic conceptions for the Arm, service Bureaus technical management and , last but not the least, the real requisites of Commanding Officers, the ultimate users ( and the one that took the risks in combat). A true gem in the volume is the data provided in appendices.They cover mainly submarine propulsion and periscope development: since they are vital technologies, shaping the sub operative capability and seagoing perfomance, full studies are presented giving a clear picture of design and manifacturing practices as demanded by the Navy. Weapons, fire control, sonars, tactics, instruments and systems innovations are also covered. For each of them, the author delivers a clarifying view of &quot;how&quot; scientist and builders achieved leaping technological solutions to enhance fighting capabilities. This authoritative content is supported by a fascinating collection of photographs, complemented by extensive use of cross sections, inboard profiles plus drawings and sketches of abortive designs. <br />There is no doubt at all, this beatiful hardcover volume will adorn your bookcase, barely withstanding the heavy use it will unquestionably get as a reference source.	2001-04-15
US	49297842	R1P7PT1RU0GZY4	1855326671	638108865	The Concorde Story: 21 Years in Service (Osprey Civil Aircraft)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A wealthy account	&quot;The Concorde story&quot; is a fine testimony to management and professionalism of dedicated people like the author, involved in the day to day operation of this magnificent aeroplane. In fact  this colourful book is an exhaustive description of the only supersonic commercial aircraft in airline service, seeing a lenghty duty in British airways and Air France livery.<br />It is clear that the program economical success was impeded by the oil crises of the early 70s and by the subsequent worldwide economic recession, but quietly the few ships built (16 in total) reached two important goals. First, their airline service was a keystone in proving that supersonic travel was technically and economically viable, despite the limits of preceding technological know-how and enviromental impact. Second, the fleet has demonstrated that producing an operating profit was financially feasible by careful industrial and commercial in-house resources, once the development costs were written off (and still it is, despite the notorious Paris crash). All these aspects are thoroughly narrated by Cpt Orlebar, telling the story behind the initial difficult steps and the progressive achivements in airline service. Very nice and objective is the chapter related to the competitors, since it shows how bad management (US SST program) and a technically trouble prone design ( Soviet Tupolev TU 144 SST ) failed to promote a challenger to the British and French enterprise ( and to make the supersonic technological race more interesting for everyone, just look at the current state of the art in the field: Aerospatiale AGV, Alliance ATSF, Dassault and Gulfstream SSJB, DARPA QSP, just to quote the most famous research studies). The best facets of the volume are the operations of a typical flight London-New York from the pilot point of view, the specifications and data of this flying marvel, and finally nice illustrations of powerplant layout, intake matching schedule, plane cutaway drawing, flight envelope chart.<br />The author provides a rare insight into the technical and professional endeavor of Concorde service and mantainance, giving a clear picture of high quality standard in training and duty of pilots and technicians, undoubtedly required to operate this beautiful airliner.	2001-04-15
US	49297842	R3HYZ27THTZ2YW	0688122884	326944434	Dirty Little Secrets of World War II: Military Information No One Told You...	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A very pleasant reading	&quot;Dirty Little Secrets&quot; is a funny and enjoyable book if you are interested in a brief summary of military history of II WW. It reveals many small facts, sometimes irrelevant for a big treatise; they give a tragicomic dimension to the secrets of battles and operations during the war.  Many details and anectodes are narrated as a complement to the official history of military and political industrial complex, giving a touch of irriverence to the picture of war efforts played by the partecipants.<br />Of course, if you are looking for a comprehensive textbook, this is not your volume; but it is an hilarious reference (often a serious one) of military affairs in II WW for everyone.	2001-04-01
US	49297842	R1YMXWROD0EFJ9	0851778844	609791102	MiG Aircraft Since 1937 (Putnam's Russian aircraft)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Exhaustively researched	The opportunity of unprecedented access to former URSS archives has produced the best book on the history of the MiG bureau. All designs created by the fertile genius of Artyon I. Mikoyan and Mikhail I. Gurevich are thoroughly presented with many historical details of their initial development. Even if the book covers all aircrafts and missiles, the thickest part of the work is dedicated to jet models, prototypes and experimental planes built after the II WW. In this respect, the volume is very exhaustive because it fixes many obscured points about production variants and aircraft designations, giving a clear picture of design evolution, previously blurred in the West for the impossibility of approaching directly sources of informations or files (there was a cold war, intelligence denial was a serious matter, do you remember?). Many photographs and drawings are published, some of them for the first time.<br />In the end, this is the most comprehensive book on MiG bureau, in line with Bill Gunston's style, whose dedication to excellency we all know about, even if the treatise on II World War projects is not so extensive. Highly recommended for Soviet aviation buffs.	2001-04-01
US	49297842	R3LGB6JDBF7U4M	0870211005	112392179	Battleships: Allied Battleships in World War II	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Unrivalled technical analysis	Among many books dedicated to capitol ships in the II WW, this volume is a very pleasant reading. It comes close to the experience of on the spot study of the design, construction and operational life of dreadnoughts of allied Navies, leading every naval buff to the very insight of the ship themselves. Each class is thoroughly illustrated, giving detailed information of ship's armament, protection systems, engineering and machinery. The best facet is the careful examination of operational career of each ship and the analysis of battle damage sustained by the ship according to testimonies, technical data and the most probable reconstruction of incoming shell trajectory. The damage studies are interesting since they are presented with extensive use of line drawings, further explaining the ships' innermost structural architecture. Another remarkable feature is the extensive chapter dedicated to Soviet wartime effort to build capital ships. It literally casts a light on the subject, providing many facts and photographs of this unknown page of II WW. Profiles, armor diagrams, shear,frame &amp; body plans, line drawings are very accurate as they are results of blueprints' deep investigation.<br />This book is really an authoritative source for studying battleships from their inception to their final days.	2001-02-25
US	49297842	R2MNELJI2LA6P7	0387985077	905109811	Modern Inertial Technology: Navigation, Guidance, and Control (Mechanical Engineering Series)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A modern source in a modest body of literature	The technology in the field is quite advanced, and the research is particulary active and in costant evolution. Producing a comprehensive reference is quite difficult but the author delivers clearly the advantages and disadvantages of each system analyzed in the book. As a guide, the work has neatly reached its goal, since it delivers a clear picture of the current state of art and the trend of each system development. In fact the author is covering every subject quite extensively without the dispersion of innumerable specific technical papers, which are, of course, much more detailed but far from comprehending the scope of the whole field.<br />The only point is the mathematical level,that is maybe too simple  for engineers and scientists, and a little bit complicated for the average pilot, one of the most interested user in the field.	2001-02-25
US	49297842	R3MZ5NN0JWRX1B	0312920105	785184125	Full Throttle: True Stories of Vietnam Air Combat Told by the Men Who Lived It	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A fascinating collection of airwar experience	Personal testimonies of fighters are always very interesting, each tale gives a touch of human dimension in wars coolly and distantly narrated by freelancers or reporters. In this book there is a vivid picture of the burden to wage aerial war in Vietnam, a scar still painful in memories of those who fought it. Their stories are well worth a careful reading since they reveal the psychological attitude of the airmen and their lifestyle under the strain of action. This portrait is accurate and gripping, giving many details of how tactics, training and hardware worked under real condition (contrary to the flawless operations of a peacetime simulation). Clearly some stories are edifying experience of servicemen that went beyond the call of duty, but largely most of them resound of day to day life and of behaviour of common soldiers towards the harshness of fight. Compelling.	2001-02-22
US	49297842	R39HJ2ZHX35ZN9	0671529080	689007235	ACES AGAINST JAPAN: THE AMERICAN ACES SPEAK	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A telling collection of war heroes' stories	The war in the Pacific was a bloody confrontation for the resolution of opponents and  the straining combat environment. Flying under such pressure was undeniably a great feat and sustaining a proper level of operational capability was a superb example of airmanship. In this book all aspects of air combat come alive with the intriguing personal tales of the pilots who served in this theater. Each account reveals the insight of lifestyle, tactics and training that led to amazing results in aerial battles. From their personal experience, it is possible to catch the feelings the pilots had about their machinery, climate and combat  methods before actually flying the missions in their harsh frontline.<br />Beatifully written, this volume is really easy to read, even if some accounts disclose a predilection to be stylish or glorifying  from time to time.	2001-01-08
US	49297842	R2ZIFASFTS53J4	1857800125	402761408	Okb Sukhoi: A History of the Design Bureau and Its Aircraft	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a good reference	&quot;OKB SUKHOI&quot; is the first comprehensive volume on one of the most famous soviet design bureau. A large part of what was known was based on intelligence database released during the cold war; this work is the first definitive insight of this team: many details are revealed by gathering informations and photographs published in original russian papers; some snapshots are from personal collections of engineers actually involved in bureau development and testing work. In fact many of them are rare examples and they include prototypes and research vehicles, previously unpublished in the west.<br />The  text is accurate and a detailed description of design features, structures and systems is covered by having access to soviet engineering data. In this regard is important to remark that the metric system is a standard russian practice; if the reader is looking for a precise figure in tabular data, she/he must take into account the significant digits while computing own conversions to british system.<br />Even if its style is different from the western standard in aviation pubblication, this is a much needed book, really helpful to get a clear picture of the hystory of this famous bureau; above all it is a fine tribute of its leader, one of the most gifted genius in soviet aviation industry.	2000-12-10
US	49297842	R3SVDHTIKGRMO9	0804116962	517833989	Luftwaffe Fighter Aces: The Jagdflieger and Their Combat Tactics and Techniques	Books	5	13	14	N	N	A view from the other side	Sometime studying the opponent is much more instructive than glorifying the victor. As long as this book is concerned, the riveting description of German training, tactics and traditions is really exhaustive.<br />It is surprising to see how long the duty tour was for a German pilot and how dedicated they were to their job, under the word of honor and chilvary that permeated the Luftwaffe tradition. Notwithstanding this credit and a self taught decency, despite the terrible strain of combat, the portrait of their character and lifestyle is really vivid. But even if this psychological trait is instrumental to understand the German aces achievement in battle, the most interesting feature of the volume is the comprehensive examination of pilot training practices, mental preparation and flying skills. A large discussion of combat tactics and fighting methods is presented for each ace, well depicted in the contest of climate, theater of war and available equipment.  <br />Beautifully researched, the book is quite easy to read and each chapter is a clearcut account of all threads leading to a conclusive analysis of how German aces outscored the Allied by a wide margin.	2000-11-29
US	49297842	R1BYVH185POAZQ	1855326817	676336419	Lockheed SR 71  Revised Ed (General Aviation)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	An outstanding tribute	Rarely an aircraft career has been analyzed so completely. This volume is a gripping account of missions flown by Lockheed SR 71 during its operational life, a tribute to a fantastic aircraft and its technological legacy.<br />The book narrates the story of plane birth as replacement to the famous spyplane U2. The operational requirements leading to U2 first, than to SR71, shaped these two futuristic reconnaissance platforms; but for the SR71, the author provides full coverage of its development as a aircraft family (interceptor and bomber versions). After introducing the CIA operations and the past highly classified programs, progenitors of Blackbird, a detailed description of aircraft design characteristics is presented, finally a vivid picture of most secret engineering data concerning the equipments and aircraft systems. This is a fascinating reading itself, especially after being entertained by &quot;Skunk Works&quot;, the autobiography of Ben Rich, former director of the Advanced Development Projects branch of Lockheed and longtime  friend of Kelly Johnson , Blackbird's chief designer. The legacy left by these outstanding scientists is simply gigantic and the technical description of one of their creature is well worth the price. Infact a precious facet of the volume is the cockpits instruments panels, the cutaway view with general internal layout and the inlet (or intake, as Britons prefer) airflow diagram, the first time that such a complicated duct system is described and printed. Also revealed for the first time are the missions operated by Air Force to monitor the Soviet nuclear submarines pens in the Artic during the peak of cold war.<br />After many years of silent and classified operations, the most impressive airplane ever built is discovered in this engrossing publication. The author delivers outstandingly the technological marvel and the faithful &quot;day by day&quot; care required by the personnel in maintaining the recce plarform a viable military program, a lasting portrait of men who flew and overhauled the almighty Blackbird before its untimely retirement.	2000-11-22
US	49297842	R3BYN7ZBLLOHX1	0887408222	285301803	T.O. 1F-86D-1 Flight Handbook: F-86d & Tf-86d Aircraft (U.S.A.F. Ser))	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A jewel for collectors	The F86 flight manual is a reprint of the original publication used by USAF pilots to fly the plane in the 50ties. Here the enthusiast can find the procedures necessary to operate the aircraft and a basic description of aircraft systems, limitations and perfomances data.<br />This volume was design to provide the pilot all the informations useful for a safe and efficient management of mission and for manning the aircraft. So this is an insight of pilot working environment during the hottest days of cold war, when this plane was one of many interceptor in USAF inventory, ready to stop the mounting waves of Soviet bombers. Besides, it is a clear reference of the technological level reached by fighter standards in the period, showing the pace of aviation engineering  advances, if compared to combat planes produced only a decade before. A real facet is the chapter dedicated to operational characteristics, where radar capabilities and attack geometries are described to achieve a successful hit.<br />In the end an interesting manual for enthusiast and collectors, a &quot;must read&quot; for any F86 fan and an ideal complement to books devoted to the operational career of the first swept wing fighter  in the Service.	2000-11-20
US	49297842	R3T5TWMJIDAHNV	0870212982	458819851	Iowa Class Battleships: Their Design, Weapons and Equipment	Books	5	22	23	N	N	A masterpiece for naval devotee and modelers	An authoritative monograph of such a quality is a real gem. The volume is simply stunning for the high standard it sets. The first chapter deals with the evolution of battleship design, beginning with the frame imposed by the Washington treaty and the neverending erosion of its limits. Consequently the concessions to opposing countries triggered a naval race that shaped the operational requirements for the Iowa class. This comprehensive preamble is instrumental to the chapter dedicated to narrate ships design backgrounds, development stages and construction phases. Superbly completed by snapshots at building yards and drydocks, the author delivers outstandigly all the historical details of class birth, in particular the amazing incompatibility of barbette and turret design due to different dimensions in the Service Bureaus' drawings. Armament, Fire Controls and Protection are thoroughly described; many illustrations and design sketches are available, an usefull insight of project complexity and of the inner strength of the class, true reason of its longevity.<br />A nice feature is printed in appendix. Many general arrangement drawings are printed full page, showing different outfits during ship career. Paintings and camouflages are very handy, since modelers can study many assembly details. For the technicalities enthusiast, internal general layouts, decks configuration, sheer, body and halfbreadth are carefully depicted. <br />As a naval book, this one is unrivalled for the specific warship design and history, a true masterpiece and a pleasant reading for the scholar and for the general public alike.	2000-11-16
US	49297842	R1T66PIJU3R4K9	0914144413	395518882	German Aircraft Interiors Vol 1, 1935-1945	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An outstanding reference	This book is as nice example of photographic research on the subject and a much needed volume that fills the gap on Nazi aircraft reference. Infact most of publications are based on operational life of the types so hardly fought by allied Nations. Much has been told about their career since many sources are available on both sides to keep track of combats and many personal accounts are recorded, expecially on allied side. But materials available on manufacturing practices and equipment standards are rare. First of all, technical drawings and ancillary articles were confiscated by military authorities  for intelligence examination. Large batches of equipment were destroyed ( togheter with production toolings ) and few examples are left, dispersed worldwide, as opposed to an vast factory output during the war.<br />This publication is dedicated to cover aircraft instrumentations, controls and systems, flying suits, engines, cockpit equipments for day fighters and rocket interceptors. A nice feature is the cockpit arrangement as seen by the pilot. For each aircraft instrument panel and side consoles are illustrated, showing the perspective of pilot as he strapped in. It is evident how different were the dials layouts, if compared to the standard of British and American manufacturers. A preciuos facet is the photo gallery of aircraft instrument and the product classification system; a nice and exhaustive portraits of ginsights are illustrated, togheter with close-ups of handgrips used for control sticks.<br />Finally, the volume is a real source of details pictures, casting a light on German systems. Turning the pages, it is apparent how the war efforts hastily led to a remarkable series of aeronautical advances, at astonishing pace, setting a new criterion in concepts so widely applied in postwar aircraft programmes: now it is clear why the captured aircraft were thoroughly studied, designers and  their projects were so deeply scrutinezed. A great work, eagerly waitingfor bombers and transports volumes.	2000-11-07
US	49297842	R1AHUCOFBQHGVT	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	14	16	N	N	A gripping tale of a great technological innovation	&quot;Longitude&quot; is a bestseller that belongs to the elite of scientific divulgation. The book is written as a popular tale, so its format is quite easy to read ; nevertheless the writing is riveting as pure fiction. Notwithstanding its apparent semplicity, the volume delivers outstandingly the difficult concepts and ideas that were behind the most important scientific problem of 18th century. To author's credit, the research is quite consistent and plenty of authoritative sources are available for anyone interested in deeper knowledge  of this scientific challenge.<br />&quot;Longitude&quot; is a brilliant tale of the navigation science main concern: determination of boat position independently from a landmark. Since shipping was the mainstay of economical life of western countries in the centuries of exploration, a safe method of navigation was paramount for running a developing modern economy. Infact today many shipwrecks are direct testimonies of innumarable destructions of lives and goods, simply due to loss of position awareness by the sailors.<br />In the end this stunning volume is an eloquent and effective description of a technological endeavor, scientific achievement, and a revealing tale of the secrets of seapower superiority that were and still are at base of a powerful economy and political strategy.	2000-11-05
US	49297842	RQB6ZUBQAF01D	0028018281	511060463	Aircraft Gas Turbine Engine Technology	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A compelling reference souce	This volume is the best publication for aeronautical gas turbine technology. It is a powerful tool as a reference and as a didactic implement.<br />Theory. The development of theory is quite simple and straightforward. Being intended for technicians, the mathematical level is really easy, nevertheless the associated phenomenons are solidly explained. If the reader is looking for a more advanced maths dissection, he has to search a different book, conversely this treatment is the best complement to theoretical study: here concepts came alive and the mathematical set of solutions to equations are translated in real stuff.<br />Materials and technical evaluation. The edition copes with the advanced techniques introduced in more recent designs and products. The previous editions were full of excerpts from manufacturer pubblications or other technical papers, the current one is enriched by new illustrations and detailed explanations of  advanced research. Drawings and graphs were the best facets of former editions and still they are, literally boosting reader's learning curve.<br />Engines. A wide selection of engines is avalable as examples, each one deeply dissected, showing typical arrangements and design solutions. This accurate study of construcion details and manufacturing techniques is explanatory since it shows the real article as designed, produced and maintained, focusing on each part functionality and it is real as it gets!	2000-11-05
US	49297842	R1OT831ZRPZSDO	0887407781	473165979	An 01-85Fgd-1 Flight Handbook Navy Models: F9F-6, -6P Aircraft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A &quot;must read&quot;	Anyone interested in aviation history is always looking for &quot;first hand&quot; informations, this book is the right answer for this sort of research. First of all, this volume is the pilot handbook or &quot;dash-one&quot; (as pilots are used to refer to it in their daily work), where the perfomances figures, characteristics and procedures are listed for operating the aircraft. It means that for basic flying, the pilot studies this technical publication.<br />Here in the case of Grumman F9F, many vivid informations are available on this aircraft, direct descendant of the version used by US Navy during the Corean conflict. So basically this engrossing reprint is a plentiful source of data regarding one of the main naval fighter of the 50ties, one of the many attempt by the service to introduce in its inventory a plane comparable in operational capabilities to their Air Force counterpart. A precious facet is the section dedicated to carrier operations procedures and the one for armament equipment.<br />This volume is a goody for any aviation enthusiast and highly recommended reference source for &quot;armchair&quot; historians.	2000-11-05
US	49297842	R3FXWLXN95BJT7	0887407811	261104727	Navair 01-245Fdd-1 Natops Flight Manual Navy Model: F-4J Aircraft	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The real stuff for aviation enthusiast!	The &quot;fabulous Phantom&quot; is the best known fighter of modern aerial warfare. Consenquently plenty of pubblications and data are available on this splendid aircraft. A large number of versions were produced by McDonnell Douglas to satisfy the different requirements by almost all of western Air Forces, but this book is referred to the final naval configuration introduced by US Navy in its active inventory.<br />To complete a respectable story of the superb machine, this manual (reproduced by the original &quot;dash one&quot;) is the best way to get on board and to discover &quot;first hand&quot; how the lucky ones in fighter pilots community were driving the &quot;Beast&quot;.  In fact this is the manual used by the crew to fly the &quot;ship&quot;;  here the reader can find out the basic aircraft systems  and instrumentation layout, perfomances, normal and abnormal checklists, flying manoeuvres syllabus etc.... Having in hand a technical pubblication, its language is simple naval aviators jargon, so same basic aeronautical background is required; but once the reader becomes acquainted with it, he is actually reading the authentic manual like the true pilot did in real life!	2000-10-29
US	49297842	R1FZHBP9CT2T8X	1853671940	543326724	How to Fly the B-29 Superfortress: The Official Manual for the Plane That Bombed Hiroshima and Nagasaki	Books	4	10	10	N	N	a must for aviation enthusiast	This interesting reprint of World War II original Combat Crew Manual for B 29 Crew is a real &quot;first hand&quot; report of combat capabilities of the famous bomber, as seen by the eyes of the personel responsible for manning the aircraft in operational sortie.<br />This pubblication is different from the  &quot;dash one&quot; or pilot handbook, where basic system description, perfomance, normal, abnormal and emergency checklists were illustrated for on board use. This volume was intended as an operative manual to get the troublesome B29 a viable combat machine. As such, the book was prepared to master the aircraft capabilities for planning and achieving best results in the assigned mission. In fact when Boeing designed the plane, many advanced technologies were implemented, consequently the bomber suffered some teething troubles like the nasty tendency of engines to run hot (especially along prolonged climbs) and the difficulties in exploiting the new avionics and combat systems, like the bombing aiming equipment and the defensive layout (the turrets were remotely controlled, like barbettes in a battleship); so manning all systems required technique and crew coordination.<br />To improve combat performance, combat-like training was paramount and this book was the main reference to transform a type-rated pilots and specialist members into a combat ready crew as a whole. In this retrospect, it is much of interest the short foreword by Gen Curtis Le May, the famous Air Force General showing its personal view about the right thing to do in aerial warfare, a condensed line of thoughts that was his personal viaticum for life and career.<br />For aircraft enthusiast, this volume is really riveting for the wealth of technical details scantly reported by the historical profiles, because the latter are dedicated to tell the bomber service life and operational history. Here instrumentations are thoroughly covered, and above all, the best procedures to use them are clearly presented, showing how revolutionary was this plane for the bombers community when introduced in active inventory. In the end the pubblication is a true gem for anyone interested in aerial warfare history and a definitive complement to many volumes on the subject.	2000-10-29
US	49297842	R2237PHSI3IA28	0004709977	359366512	Jane's Battleships of the 20th Century	Books	3	10	10	N	N	a missed opportunity for a good reference	Seapower competition is history of strategic gambles and capital ships were the instruments to achieve control of sealanes. This volume presents a review of the most important units and classes that were the mainstays of fleets. Unfortunately this work is not organic because the author provides only a limited description of design and costruction evolution of battleships and battlecruisers.<br />The review of ship characteristics falls short of expectations since it fails to produce a good assessment of seakeeping features and of operational capabilities. Limited facts are reported to explain technical improvements implemented during ship life span to match the neverending changes in strategies. Just few hints are shown to reveal topmost aspects and defects of each design with some information on consequential wartime limitations imposed during active service. Interspersed with descriptions of most important naval engagements and with summaries of most significant doctrines for naval warfare, this work gives only a superficial insight of opposing requirements that had been involved in planning, designing and building a battleship; in facts a short study for each class is presented without giving details of research and innovations in naval architecture that earmarked the field. A missing part is a wide overview of naval artillery. Since guns were among the leading specifications in launching a new class, it is odd that a better explanation of armament development is not covered.<br />Good points in this book are the  nice color profiles, sometimes completed with plan and bow views. Unfortunately no scales are indicated, so being of limited use for modelers.	2000-10-08
US	49297842	R2E1IYRPJNQQHL	0521596742	21133814	Jet Propulsion: A Simple Guide to the Aerodynamic and Thermodynamic Design and Performance of Jet Engines (Cambridge Engine Technology Series)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Really helpful	This book keeps up with the promise in the title. It is a easily readable guide to design and perfomance of jet engine with a rigorous treatise of each field, even if the level remains simple.<br />In fact the mathematical exposition is quite accessible, without a full analytical presentation. Nevertheless the formulae are clearly given with an effective theorical background when needed. Since the volume target is to clarify ideas and principles, each topic is attractively examined, emphasizing the qualitative treatment over the quantitative analysis to improve understanding of physical phenomena. This facet is quite useful because it allows an overall comprehension in mastering design process of jet engine. Besides, the emphasis on having a clear picture of principles provides the basis for a fair evaluation of  engine perfomances under real conditions.<br />As a guide or a reference, this work has neatly achived its goal.	2000-09-30
US	49297842	R2M0DI0B8MUGT1	0070504466	165324223	Low-Speed Aerodynamics: From Wing Theory to Panel Methods (McGraw-Hill Series in Aeronautical and Aerospace Engineering)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a lot of informations in a small book	This volume is a quite complete course in low speed range aerodynamics. Even if the authors limit themselves to incompressible and irrotational fluid fieds, they present a complete course giving a substantial theorical apparatus with a logically developed computational methods.<br />The mathematical level is really excellent, since the presentation is thoroghly worked out with detailed explanation of   each formulae or passage. The most enticing feature of this tome is the systematic treatment of computational methods with different approaches to them to obtain the full range of solutions. This is achived by implementing additional level of complexity along the process, showing the dependence of each function in numerical modelling.<br />Altogether, this book is a good start for understanding the computational techniques and the classic theory.	2000-09-29
US	49297842	R58MJ720KQNZB	1568581076	611154200	Birds of Prey: Boeing vs. Airbus: A Battle for the Skies	Books	3	4	5	N	N	a thrilling but technically inaccurate account	This work on Boeing (USA) and Airbus (Europe or what they call UE) competition is undeniably compelling. Unfortunately some faults about  technical aspects make it a little bit incomplete. Anyway, once the book  has caught the reader attention (forgiving the mistakes) it is hard to  throw off its spell.<br />A precious facet is the historical reconstruction of  political and economical process, describing the post war crises of  aeronautical companies in Europe in the civil market. Emerging from the  war, european countries were eager to start a new life. The aeronautical  skill (grown during belligerent times) was put to work in leading program  like the Comet, Caravelle, Trident, BAC 1-11, etc. . Unfortunately  management and political control were so conservative that they were unable  to drive the new technology evolution in full swing. So each european State  basically never developed a sound industrial strategy (i.e. for  shortsighted nationalistic interest). The nemesys of national designs and  firms (as autonomous entities in the market) led to the pooling of energies  called Airbus. This part of the book is quite organic and it is a clever  description of cut-throat struggle with another arab phoenix like Boeing  (the company emerging from internal US competition).<br />Many technical flaws  appear from the narrative, two are important for the plot. First,Boeing 707  project was a masterpiece being the first design that made civil  aeronautical &quot;know-how&quot; to grow fully (so far for DC-8 and  Convair 880). Initially it was developed as a strategic tanker and, of  course, research &amp; development funding was available to boost the  design during the cold war. Many advanced technologies were put to fruition  from research centers (federal or private) and a &quot;full steam  ahead&quot; was given to any study capable of making them affordable.  Airbus never got the same opportunity. Second point, the airliners market  is divided in segmets and even if new technologies are not enough cheap to  change aicraft shapes, the quest for more efficient planes compels  consolidated knowledge to mature completely. So 2engines Boeing 757 is the  727 replacement because they were designed to fulfill the same segment  (according to lower unit cost per machine and equipment, in order to  respect more restrictive regulations). To be more precise each segment is  divided into specialized sectors; each manifacturer design a basic  adaptable project for a segment, then engineers &quot;customize&quot; the  plane for a particular requirements (just look at the Boeing 777, initially  developed in &quot;A&quot; version, reveallingly dubbed &quot;A&quot;  market, and in the &quot;B&quot; version or &quot;B&quot; market).<br />In the  end lack of aviation expertise is quite limiting in this bold work,  compromising a basically sound effort. Nevertheless this is an admirable  attempt to reveal the insights of the most terrible struggle between two  major corporate conglomerates in airliners industry.	2000-09-19
US	49297842	R3SARJ97P8E6BF	0688158927	830457003	The Black Box: All-New Cockpit Voice Recorder Accounts Of In-flight Accidents	Books	3	6	10	N	N	a missed opportunity for divulgation	This volume is a collection of cockpit voice recorder (CVR) transcriptions  related to &quot;breaking news&quot; flight accidents and less famous  incidents. They are riveting reports of actual events leading to the final  moments before the &quot;irreparable&quot; taking place, as recorded by the  blackbox (that ironically is a vivid orange case containing the recording  equipment).<br />This book is only for general reader  since the full CVR  transcription is a part of a large and massive technical document, not so  easy to handle, being interspersed with data meaningful only to  professionals. There are some mistakes that a specialist can easily  identify. Some of them are typical technicalities; other are quite gross  since they refer to main determinant for crash (especially when the source  is not american).<br />  But this is a fascinating account for the rest of the  world (by the way each reader is a potential passenger); for sure it will  not allay anxiety, but at least it is a way of facing fear of flying. It  shows how a crew works professionally in the worst case scenario to ensure  the safe termination of flight. And if safety statistics do not calm down  your concerns, knowing the human drama behind this activity will tease the  dreeds.	2000-09-17
US	49297842	RIIRUR1GR6TJ6	1557504083	307061402	Jutland, the German Perspective: A New View of the Great Battle, 31 May 1916	Books	4	19	20	N	N	not so german perspective	A very nice  research work since this is the first time the battle is  narrated as seen from the german point of view (to  english readers). In  fact the battle of Skaggerak (german name for it) is a classical sea battle  (gun vs gun), but amazingly plenty of data and sources are mainly filed on  english side. This book tries to fill the gap since official report,  archives, wireless messages and countless files are cited to unveil the  encounter plot. The review of most significant facts before the clash is  quite intersting and instrumental to catch the genesis of moral ascendancy  of British naval power over German High Seas Fleet.<br />The author work is  compelling: sometime the narrative brings the reader on board as witness of  action and demage report to the bridge. Comunications are vividly narrated,  by the way they were so poor that occasionally they approach hilarity.  Unfortunately psychological traits of Adm. Jellicoe and Adm. Beatty are  quite clear while Adm. Hipper and Adm. Scheer attitudes fail to pop up from  the perspective. So this unbalance (perhaps lack of solid sources on the  German eminent players) and a consolidated english historical background  are the only limits to this fascinating volume for seriuos fellow of naval  history or a general reader like me.	2000-09-16
US	49297842	R24Q9C6OFT6UPB	0671748742	835514862	Left to Die: The Tragedy of the USS Juneau	Books	4	3	3	N	N	chilling	Many blunders mark the history of naval warfare, but the tell of the  cruiser JUNEAU's sinking is high drama: the gigantic tragedy of the  ill-fated crew is as riveting as a thriller fiction. The survivors' ordeal  is precisely covered, showing  abyss and glory of human sufferings in time  of crises. Sometime the author is a little bit stylistic in narrative;  nevertheless the gripping effect on the reader is granted.<br />In addition,  the book is an account of Navy and Army Air Force misjudgements in dealing  with the disaster aftermath. The author delivers outstandingly  betrayals  and cover-ups following the rescue, when it was clear that the Navy command  and control structure was responsible for the late search and pick-up.  Details are noteworthy (and very instructive), especially when Kurzman  discloses how survivors sightings were filed in daily intelligence reports  without stressing any priority on this entry. This is a typical example  of  irresponsable attitude in military ranks, as well as the strict clinging to  radio silence discipline, well-known in war time. But lack of initiative of  subordinates, carelessness and silly adherence to orders are typical  &quot;gaffe&quot; in war History; to quote Royal Navy Admiral Sir Jackie  Fisher (enraged after the Battle of  Dogger Bank, WWI):  &quot;.....in war  thr first principle is to disobey orders! Any fool can obey  orders!&quot;.<br />So this volume is a tribute to the surviving sailors and  their departed teammates and a sharp account of Services misunderstandings.	2000-08-30
US	49297842	R364K73TA85DSY	0521568366	897837973	Aircraft Performance (Cambridge Aerospace Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	inclusive and complemental	The book is a well presented work on aircraft perfomance evaluation. It is really extensive, in fact most textbooks give few hints on estimating  perfomance in practice. This failing is corrected by a well written tome,  since the mathematical level is quite accessible and many comments are  available on charts and data referring to many types of aicraft. These  examples are quite significant, being indications on tradeoffs (a classical  problem in aircraft design) and errors assessment due to approximations;  besides they give an order of magnitude of typical figures of equations  solutions. The most valuable feature is the chapter on takeoff and landing  perfomance; as matter of fact evaluation and computation methodology are  clearly presented, rappresenting the bridge between theory and perfomance  criteria listed in regulations as published by aeronautical bodies (i.e.  FAA &amp; JAA ). To remark a shortcoming is not easy in this useful volume,  but a wider lecture on combat manouvres and tran-supersonic flight would be  considerably appreciated. Finally a much needed book, complementary to an  aerodynamic course text and a nice reference for industry professionals.	2000-08-16
US	49297842	R2F72YKT00FWNQ	0919822355	928076911	Avro Arrow: The Story of the Auro Arrow from Its Evolution to Its Extinction (180P)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	truly engrossing	One of the finest book dedicated to this controversial program! Being interested in technical details and aircraft perfomances,I found many factory drawings about structures, internal systems arrangements, armament  layout and cutaway views. Important performance figures are available from  tables and charts. But the most interesting feature is the the description  of the development and testing phase that shows all the potential of this  doomed plane. Finally some basic facts on an aircraft still surrounded by  an halo of mistery about its birth and its death!	2000-07-30
US	49297842	R37SMH6DW39JKH	0415160200	850987362	Atmosphere, Weather and Climate	Books	5	6	6	N	N	exhaustive	The best book on the subject without a mathematical presentation!Despite the lack of formulae, this volume is really exhaustive. The theory is thoroughly presented.In fact diagrams,graphs and maps are simply abundant  along the text,supplying a lively image of the physical processes.Many  photographic plates are provided with detailed comments as well.Overall, a  splendid and vast array of pictures that gives an engrossing description of  scientific concepts. This book is a superb reference for professionals and  laymen alike.	2000-07-02
US	49297842	R1BZSZHOW7H88E	0713136812	12919184	Aircraft Structures for Engineering Students	Books	4	8	8	N	N	effective	This useful book gives a strong theoretical basis on structural analysis.In fact the maths involved is advanced but clearly explained, so that it is quite easy to follow the theory presentation. Worked examples,  as well as line illustrations, are very helpful, efficaciuosly completing  the expositions. In the end ,a quite comprehensive textbook.	2000-07-02
US	49297842	R3PGA1B0BWX4ZO	1550460471	928076911	Avro Arrow: The Story of the Avro Arrow From Its Evolution To Its Extinction	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Engrossing	An exhaustive book on one of great &quot;mystery&quot; of jet fighter history.The aircraft program is fully narrated from the enthusiastic &quot;go ahead&quot; to the painfull termination.Direct testimonies of  executives,engineers and test pilots make the plot really vivid showing the  feelings behind this endeavour:the epilog still looks like the end of a  dream. Illustrations,pictures,factory drawings are truly intriguing,since  few were previously available.Particularly impressive is the  &quot;log&quot;,where significant figures are released on aircraft data and  performances. Finally some light on a cold war aicraft that &quot;might  have been&quot;!	2000-06-29
US	49297842	R3MQRSAREPR5Y4	1563473615	933924408	Intake Aerodynamics (AIAA Education Series)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Comprehensive and explanatory	One of the most extensive volume devoted to the subject.The book is very rigorous, the mathematical level is well set out, being simple, advanced enough and limited to analysis aspects only. Quite impressive to me is the  wide use of sketches, graphes and diagrams; they give a clear frame of  physical phenomenons occurring in &quot;live articles&quot;. But the best  of it is the description of solutions  actually adopted in aircraft  designs,to make the intake a workable &quot;machine&quot;.	2000-06-29
US	49297842	R360IFA5ELJ088	0887409261	226401477	Secret Messerschmitt Projects: (Schiffer Military History Book)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	at last some secret facts unveiled!	An absorbing book that casts light on jet age dawn! Despite confining itself to Professor Messerschmitt's projects,the volume provides a lot of information on jet development in a general time scale,beginning with  pioneering studies by German aerodynamic science community. But to me the  most enticing feature is the technical description of aircraft  programs,complete with factory drawings and detailed specifications,not to  mention the legacy left to cold war early jets. This book is noteworthy for  reading fascinating fact after fact and for closing a gap between the dark  last days of World War II and the birth of modern jet age warfare.	2000-06-26
