US	49300980	R15U4DBMLLMY1X	0806520604	457930731	The Mark of the Scots: Their Astonishing Contributions to History, Science, Democracy, Literature	Books	1	17	44	N	N	Big Heid - Wee Man	This is all we need - yet another book telling us how great we Scots are. Recently, we've had Hermann's \\"How the Scots Invented the Modern World,\\" Buchan's \\"Capital of the Mind: How Edinburgh Changed the World,\\" and Lamont's \\"When Scotland Ruled the World: The Story of the Golden Age of Genius, Creativity and Exploration.\\" Enough already!!!<br /><br />This pathological need to hear our praises continually sung and to have the sound of our backs being patted forever ringing in our ears is pathetic. Bruce's new book takes this national self-obsession mania to new heights by taking a leaf out of the Scottish Rugby Association's book and granting Scottishness to anyone even remotely related, cobber. Thus we are told to our eternal and insufferable conceit that a fat American pill popper and donut chomper who had a few hits with cover versions was ... gasp! ... Scottish, because his name was Presley. \\"Awl-right!!!\\" as Neil Kinnock (another great ersatz Scot) once proclaimed. Oh, and while you're going on about Neil Armstrong of the famous Borders name, what about Louis Armstrong? Or Diana Ross for that matter!?<br /><br />Instead of burying their noses in a badly compressed pile of laurels, Scots should sit up and look around at their garbage infested streets, grafitti disfigured walls; the constant vandalism, drunkeness, and violence that make their living environment intolerable; and the cozy political cronyism, high taxes, and public service inefficiency that make all these pats on the back sound so damnably hollow.<br /><br />Scots might have once made a mark in the world, but now Scotland's just a land of obese, junkie, drunken neds, who cannae e'en kick a ba', and their dysfunctional parents and siblings. Pride doesn't even enter into it anymore.	2004-06-30
US	49300980	R1Y5OLTYI98Z27	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Corrupt Eruption	Painstaking historical research brought to life in novel form. The main character is an engineer called in to repair an aqueduct.<br />Stuff about volcanic eruptions and decadent Romans vomitting at feasts so they can stuff themselves again -- this was obviously before the Atkins Diet! The point of this seems to be poetic irony -- the Romans 'erupt' then are erupted on! And, furthermore, since they're so decadent to just use food hedonistically, they are clearly guilty of the classical sin of hubris, so the eruption is supposed to be a kind of divine retribution, giving this blind act of natural violence some moral dimension. These are the literary fireworks that Harris has clumsily tried to embed in the text.<br />In a nutshell this is regurgitated, pre-chewed history for the easy consumption of those who haven't quite developed their own historical molars.	2004-01-22
US	49300980	R3O4W3Y3SNLTBT	0688053394	336392187	The House of Medici: Its Rise and Fall	Books	2	13	18	N	N	Polaroid View of History	This book focuses on a fascinating period, but the camera (i.e. Historian Christopher Hibbert) is a polaroid camera, so the image is not particularly sharp and enchanting.<br />As I read this book I realised that it could have been written by almost anyone in a university history department. It didn't have a disntinctive style or anything particular to say. It just ran through the gamut of the subject in an entirely predicatable way -- the rise of the city state, trade more important than before, new ways of thinking but respect for the ways of the Church, the rise of the 'new man' and the threat this posed to the putative democracy of the city state, the fate of the Medici tied to the varying abilities of different members, an interest in the arts, the gradual co-opting of the Medici to the old nobility, etc. etc.<br />The phrase 'scissors and paste attempt' kept running through my mind as I turned the pages, a thought further emphasised by the poor quality of the paper on which the book was printed and the cover, which soon curled up even though I had read it quickly and only once.	2003-06-10
US	49300980	R1IWFL6W9I0NNQ	006001203X	183030674	Dr. Atkins' New Diet Revolution	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Living Off the Fat of the Land	With one third of Americans obese and another third merely overweight, it is understandable why America has such an enormous diet culture. There are countless books and numerous health gurus preaching a variety of ways for people to return to the shape intended by their DNA. The diet book taking America by storm at present is Dr Atkins New Diet Revolution, an updating of a book published 20 years ago that has now become a dieting classic.<br />That work was so radical at the time that it was widely condemned by the medical establishment. Now, although the Atkins diet remains the subject of controversy, a growing segment of health professionals and medical researchers have come to the conclusion that there is a great deal of sense in the doctors arguments. What makes this turnaround all the more astounding is that Atkins seems to have found the Holy Grail of dieting, that is a diet that allows us the up-till-now mutually exclusive pleasures of eating to our epicurean satisfaction while also looking slim and trim.<br />Most diets warn us of the dangers of fatty, high-calorie food and encourage us instead to consume carbohydrates. The key to Atkins system, and what justifies the term Revolution in the title, is that he reverses this equation, targeting carbohydrates as the real villain of the waistline, while giving the more delicious, high-calorie foods, so often denounced by dieticians, the green light. By limiting carbohydrates the Atkins diet aims to decrease insulin in the bloodstream, which Atkins identifies as the mechanism converting carbohydrates to body fat.<br />Because of the heavy criticism and then growing acceptance that met his ideas in the past, the tone of the writing sometimes has a defensive or even an evangelical ring to it. The diet is presented not only as an easy way to shed a few kilograms, but also as a way to prevent everything from fatigue and mental fog to diabetes and cancer. To back up its claims the book also includes many detailed case studies and controlled carbohydrate recipes.<br />Until the mysteries of the human body are completely understood, a diet book that advocates rich dishes like lobster soup, sea bass, zabaglione, and blueberry ice-cream -- and even provides recipes -- will win out over those that count out how many lentils and cabbage leaves to eat.s many detailed case studies and controlled carbohydrate recipes. <br />Until the mysteries of the human body are completely understood, a diet book that advocates rich dishes like lobster soup, sea bass, zabaglione, and blueberry ice-cream -- and even provides recipes -- will win out over those that count out how many lentils and cabbage leaves to eat.	2003-06-08
US	49300980	R2EQBMMPJZXKJY	019283410X	833642418	The Lives of the Artists (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	10	22	N	N	In the Land of the Blind . . .	This is badly-written, badly-structured, gossipy, confused, misleading, and in too many places downright dishonest. Nevertheless it remians our main source of biographical information on the great artists of the Renaissance and Mannerist periods.<br />Most of these geniuses were considered so unimportant in their own lifetimes that the details of their lives weren't thought worthy to be recorded. It is telling therefore that it was Vasari, himself a rather vainglorious and self-important artist, who first conceived the notion of setting down the minutae of his own class. Unfortunately he was more a man of the brush than the pen and used his biographical duties to settle a few old scores and to pass on rumor and gossip.<br />Of course, the very ineptitude with which this work is written gives it an extra appeal in our own dumbed down age, but compared to great biographers of the past, like Plutarch, this is clearly inferior goods. Unfortunately, it's all we have to go on for most of the artists here. If it's a great work, it's a great work solely by default.<br />'In the land of the blind the one-eyed man is king.'	2003-05-19
US	49300980	R2X83XHLCZ8G4V	019282144X	606502932	Painting and Experience in Fifteenth-Century Italy: A Primer in the Social History of Pictorial Style (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	3	23	69	N	N	Splitting Attractive Hairs	This is the kind of book that History of Art departments throw at you early on in their courses to instil the right respect and awe for the whole academic ritual. When I first saw this book I was duly impressed and intimidated into thinking this was somehow a classic. In this work Baxandall is the exemplary academic, slowly building up a case from painstaking research and cleverly interpreted trivia. This approach is fine and dandy until you reflect that at the end of it the conclusions Baxandall has laboured so hard to arrive at are perhaps a little banal -- i.e. Renaissance painting was influenced by such contemporary phenomenon as religious practices, dancing, and (oddly) the ability to judge quantities by eye. The reason this book works is that the Renaissance is such an attractive period that Baxandall's painstakingly dull technique receives a charming counterpoint in the endearing trivia of the period. Unfortunately this effect is not replicated in other works by Baxandall that I have looked at. To college students getting a dose of this, I would say, 'Enjoy the period, but think about how relevant this kind of hairsplitting really is.'	2003-05-17
US	49300980	R1JLTARD4BB6FJ	0460872354	105604558	Embassy to Constantinople (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Relevance in Obscurity	This is a quaint and charming book full of the obscure history of the Dark Ages. Liudprand, the writer, was a churchman in an Italy that had recently been overrun by waves of German invaders -- Lombards and Franks -- and integrated into the great feudalistic German Empire that then dominated central Europe.<br />This book has an introduction by the English historian John Julius Norwich, who probably came across Liudprand's writings when he was doing research for his own history of the Byzantine Empire. Indeed it is Luidprand's account of his embassy to Constantinople that is the most fascinating and cohesive part of this book, as he expresses the manly contempt of the semi-civilized barbarian for the servile, effete, and overcivilized Byzantines.<br />In the light of recent events, it is easy to draw parallels between the German Empire, the Byzantines, and the threat posed to Christendom by expansionary Islam, on the one hand, and the United States, 'Old Europe,' and the threat to democracy posed by terrorism and tyranny, on the other. In other words, no matter how obscure it may seem, we can learn a lot form this period of history too.<br />One criticism I have is that the editors have not bothered to give a clear chronological framework, so that the year in which the events described occur is left up to one's imagination.	2003-05-17
US	49300980	RKOAJGG6M172Q	0300087357	600999565	On Abstract Art	Books	1	8	51	N	N	Veiling the Subject	A woman cuts up bits of paper and makes a tacky collage that would disgrace the aesthetic judgement of a pre-schooler; a man paints a big red dot, a big yellow dot, and - wait for it - a small black dot; another man drops bits of torn paper and glues them on a sheet of paper where they fall; another man (famously) paints vertical and horizontal straight lines and fills some of the squares with primary colors; a woman puts rows of bricks on the floor in straight lines that would be extremely thrilling if it wasn't so mind-numbingly boring; and, to cap it all, a man paints a white square on a white square - duh!<br />It's all supposed to mean something. For Briony Few, the the writer, it means a chance to spout over-intellectualized jargon that usually boils away to nothing. For example:<br />Human figures and objects have been expelled from the pictures but there is always at least one body which remains in this scene and that is the spectators.<br />This means that someone is looking at a picture that doesn't have any people in it. Great. I guess this is how they earn their money in academia. This book is a good example of what is quite common in art history and criticism, the pose of knowledge instead of its communication.<br />The history of modern art can be divided into two clear movements. First there was a move towards increasing explicitness in art which climaxed in the efforts of Surrealists like Dali to drag the processes of the mind out into the daylight. This tended to strip away the veils of mystery and made art almost unnecessary, so this was quickly followed by a move to mask and hide the subject of paintings as we see in the work of Miro and his three dots, abstract expressionists like Pollock, and colorfield painters like Rothko.<br />When I read a book like Fer's I realise that the same process has occurred in art criticism. For every critic like Martica Sawin (Surrealism in Exile) who do what they can to make the processes of art history transparent, there are countless others like Fer who do what they can with their lardy, tautological, and over-conditional and ambiguous jargon to mask and veil the true history of art. People like this are driven by the same motives as medieval guilds and the Magic Circle. They want to retain control of their area of expertise by preventing their audience, customers, or readers, from finding out about it. We are simply supposed to read this book and 'sense' their knowledge without being allowed to understand it. Understanding whatever clear ideas such writers as Fer have, would reduce them to the the intellectual minnows they are.t, there are countless others like Fer who do what they can with their lardy, tautological, and over-conditional and ambiguous jargon to mask and veil the true history of art. People like this are driven by the same motives as medieval guilds and the Magic Circle. They want to retain control of their area of expertise by preventing their audience, customers, or readers, from finding out about it. We are simply supposed to read this book and 'sense' their knowledge without being allowed to understand it. Understanding whatever clear ideas such writers as Fer have, would reduce them to the the intellectual minnows they are.	2003-03-09
US	49300980	R3F8B1YC1312OD	0262193604	984152882	Surrealism in Exile and the Beginning of the New York School	Books	4	3	3	N	N	How America Stole Europe's Artistic Thunder	So much art history and criticism is just a pose of knowledge instead of its communication. This book, thankfully is not one of these. Focusing on one of the pivotal points in the history of art, this work tells the story of the effect the European Surrealist painters had on the American Abstract Expressionists. Sawin communicates in clear readable prose that usually succeeds in avoiding the petentious, tautological jargon that passes for art writing elsewhere.<br />The interest in this story is in the way it reveals the start of a kind of artistic Munro doctrine. The European emigres with their Parisian sophistication, aloofness, and arrogance come over as Masters but then have all their best ideas stolen and Americanized before trickling back with their tails firmly between their legs to a Paris that had all but forgotten them during the War.<br />The period concentrated on in this book is a dividing point in the history of modern art, marking a watershed between two clear movements determined by two opposing trends, something Sawin could have perhaps emphasized more.<br />First there was a move towards increasing explicitness in art, which climaxed in the efforts of Surrealists like Dali, Masson, Ernst, and Matta to drag the processes of the mind out into the daylight. This tended to strip away the veils of mystery and made art almost unnecessary, so this was quickly followed by a move to mask and hide the subject of paintings as we see in the work of the abstract expressionists like Pollock, and the colorfield painters like Rothko. This was a vital and no doubt self-interested U-turn entered into by artists and the art establishment.	2003-03-09
US	49300980	R3BPQSKRIJLODZ	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Cheesops Fable	As the ancient Greek philosopher Heraclitus once said, \\"The only constant is change.\\" The worlds of business, politics, and culture continually bear out this unsettling truth. Unfortunately too many of us have become creatures of habit and refuse to go with the flow. Instead of benefiting from changing winds of fortune, we prefer to dig our heels in and let opportunities slip. These are the problems of attitude addressed in this easy-to-read book by Spencer Johnson, a medical doctor and the co-author of the best-selling business classic \\"The One Minute Manager.\\"<br />Johnson specializes in helping people discover simple truths that can help them to enjoy more success with less stress. Among his many published works, he has also penned a number of popular children's books. This perhaps explains the simplicity of style in \\"Who Moved My Cheese,\\" which is best described as a kind of parable that takes place in a maze and features four characters, two mice, Sniff and Scurry, and two mouse-sized people, Hem and Haw.<br />The outlines of the story are reflected in the names of the characters: Sniff and Scurry suggest their uncomplicated, go-getting attitude to cheese, while Hem and Haw are synonyms of acting indecisively. Although some people may find this book patronizingly simple, the adventures of the mice and mini-humans in this Aesop-like fable carry a profound message. While cheese is equally important to all four, the two mice, by having less intellectual baggage, are more adept at adapting to the change represented by the moving of the cheese. Hem and Haw, by comparison, find change more difficult to manage, as it involves changing their self-image and belief systems. Many will see this as a subtle poke at CEOs and politicians who prefer to stick to old formulas instead of embracing the challenges of the future.	2003-02-03
US	49300980	R1CHF82PA6HJ5I	0300072724	628140106	Shadows and Enlightenment	Books	1	4	19	N	N	Total Eclipse of the Moon	Those readers who enjoyed Baxandall's excellent &quot;Painting and Experience in 15th Century Italy&quot; wil be disappointed by this book. Whereas &quot;Painting and Experience&quot; successfully evoked the society of the time and illuminated its connection with the art produced, &quot;Shadows and Enlightment&quot; is a cold, drab, would-be technical book with lots of little diagrams, apparently showing that light moves in a straight line - golly!<br />Art historians often suffer from an inferiority complex about their subject because it seems so subjective and unscientific. It's almost as if they are aware that they are looking at the past in the reflected light of the Moon rather than in the clear, relatively objective sunshine of verifiable scientific truth. Baxandall clearly seems to have been beset by feelings like this and has reacted by writing what is in effect a very bad physics book.<br />But instead of the sunshine of truly scientific insights, all we get is a lunar eclipse. Art historians should stick to art history and that means using a little more imagination to delineate the shapes and truths in the twilight world in which they exist. Switching on a high-powered searchlight just dazzles and blinds.<br />For those interested in shadows as an aspect of art, I recommend Victor I. Stoichita's &quot;A Short History of the Shadow&quot; which ties in the phenomena of shadow in art to a rich spectrum of historical, social, religious, and cultural issues.	2002-12-01
US	49300980	R10YCN8JES5GOS	393304040X	960476017	Katsura Funakoshi: Sculpture and Drawings	Books	3	5	5	N	N	'Wood' You Believe It?!	Contempoarary art is all about separating the wheat from the chaff. Much of the current art that is now lauded and lionized will simply fall to the bottom of the deep pool of oblivion in a few years time. For example, I can well see Damian Hirst's disgusting creations down at the bottom of the pool 10 years from now as they literally begin to disintegrate. Katsura Funakoshi, on the other hand, like the trees which provide his medium, is destined to grow in stature over the coming years.<br />Funakoshi makes life-sized figures (albeit missing their legs) with beautiful, blank, wistful expressions that appeal to us in a very human way. Like ancient totems, Byzantine icons, or primitive idols it is impossible not to anthropomorphize these figures made out of camphor wood and skillfully painted. The material used also gives them a warmth and an ability to age beautifully.<br />This book, which focuses on work exhibited in Europe in 1998, is already out of date, as Funakoshi's more recent work shows the results of his constant gradual improvement, in particular he is now producing sculptures that incorporate two figures. Furthermore, this book, with works selected and words written by German curators and art critics, reveals too much of that alienated unquestioning sense of wonder that sophisticated Europeans sometimes assume for things Japanese. What is needed is someone who takes a less mystifying stance.<br />In lieu of the fact that outside Japan few works exist on this great Japanese artist, this work firmly comes under the heading of \\"Dull but Worthy.\\"	2002-10-27
US	49300980	R2S4P9S61F0UD9	0691003033	703647671	The Life and Art of Albrecht Durer	Books	2	35	53	N	N	Unen-Durer-able	Erwin Panofsky was one of the founders of modern art criticism and a very learned man who wrote many books on such abtruse subjects as the difference between iconography and iconology with all the seriousness of a central European academic.<br />This lavishly illustrated work on the great German Renaissance painter and print-maker, Albrecht Durer (1471 - 1528), starts with a reasonably good introduction, mentioning the differing historical views on Durer, such as the belief common among 19th-century German Romanticists that he was a meek and pious soul wholly devoted to the interpretation of Christian subjects and contented with a quiet and dependent life.<br />This picture of a pedantic, conservative craftsman is countered by a suggestion that there might have been a Faustian element in Durer's nature, typified by a restless craving for a perfection never to be attained and an acute awareness of irresolvable artistic problems.<br />Unfortunately, this lively opening is not lived up to. Panofsky's treatment of the biographical details of Durer's life - including the revelationn that he was unhappily married - leads to a long, shapeless, rambling account, governed more by the intricate chronology of Durer's artistic production than any profound sense of the man himself.<br />There is no denying Panofsky's erudition. He definitely has all the colors on his mental palette. But like a bad painter he mixes all the hues together in a messy attempt to show off how vast and detailed his knowledge is. An intrinsically fascinating subject is thus rendered increasingly murky and morass-like by Panofsky's inability to make clear points or structure the rich detail of his knowledge. This work is the classic example of a book written by an academic with his nose too deeply buried in his subject. A strong editor would have been a godsend.	2002-10-21
US	49300980	R38OGC3KYK3H4U	0345331389	286299382	A Princess of Mars	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Mars Attack	An excellent sci-fi action novel, written (and read) at breakneck speed. It instils heroism and the love of beautiful princesses where these values may be lacking.	2002-09-08
US	49300980	RVMHK2UYK7GWB	0553572423	328007521	The Fist of God	Books	2	6	12	N	N	Writing in the Sand	A belated scissors and paste attempt to cash in on the first Gulf War. It reads like 50 magazine articles stitched together with a bit of 'Jane's' thrown in to keep armchair warriors like myself engaged. Characters are not even one dimensional - they are zero dimensional. Vacuous but readable in a disposable way.	2002-09-06
US	49300980	RAMULCSHWY945	0440218802	371573172	Bravo Two Zero: The Harrowing True Story of a Special Forces Patrol Behind the Lines in Iraq	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Unbreakable	Gripping, true-life tale of a pointless mission behind enemy lines by Britain's elite SAS special forces during the first Gulf War. Disgusting account of Iraqi torture methods. Strangely one is left with an impression of the SAS operatives as tough, souless mechanical beings, while the [...] Iraqis come over as somehow more human!!! Odd.	2002-09-06
US	49300980	RAZWLXB7WI32B	0743224574	87039745	A Beautiful Mind: The Life of Mathematical Genius and Nobel Laureate John Nash	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Hubris of Genius	This biography of the Nobel Prize winner and schizophrenic mathematical genius John Forbes Nash surprisingly brings to mind the main character in Dostoyevsky's great novel, \\"Crime and Punishment.\\" Like the intense, reclusive student, Raskolnikov, Nash in this biography comes across as an extremely anti-social and arrogant young man, convinced that his genius gives him certain rights and freedoms beyond the petty restrictions, rules, and manners that govern normal human conduct.<br />But whereas Dostoyevsky's character commits a murder, Nash's main offense is merely to be an arrogant and boorish lout, forever trying to show off to his fellow students at Princeton. When he is later struck down by mental illness after achieving so much so young, we can't help feeling there is an element of hubris involved.<br />Nash also fits into the popular paradigm of the lop-sided genius, the person of incredible talents who can't deal with the simpler aspects of daily life. As in the case of the notoriously absent-minded Albert Einstein -- whom Nash meets in the book -- or the equally eccentric Isaac Newton, we somehow feel reassured that these supreme geniuses have their weaknesses. For all these reasons, this is a story that resonates on a mythic and psychological level. We keep rooting for Nash, but also secretly look forward to him tripping up. This reflects the ambivalent attitude to the sciences that most people have -- we are both intrigued by new discoveries but afraid of their ramifications.<br />Around the age of 30, Nash's quest to find greater meaning in the Universe sparked off his insanity as he started to discern complex codes implanted by extra-terrestrials in the random occurrence of certain letters of the alphabet in daily life. But, although this is essentially a tragedy of a brilliant mind struck down by schizophrenia, it is nevertheless one with a happy ending. After paying his dues for his genius and arrogance, Nash gradually recovers and receives his apotheosis in the 1994 Nobel Prize for economics.<br />Movies and books are radically different media, so don't expect this to read like the recent Oscar-winning movie that it inspired. The expansiveness of the written word allows for much more detail to emerge as well as countless digressions and forays into the worlds of science and mathematics that the movie had no space for. So, if you saw the movie and loved it, this biography still has plenty to offer.heosis in the 1994 Nobel Prize for economics. <br />Movies and books are radically different media, so don't expect this to read like the recent Oscar-winning movie that it inspired. The expansiveness of the written word allows for much more detail to emerge as well as countless digressions and forays into the worlds of science and mathematics that the movie had no space for. So, if you saw the movie and loved it, this biography still has plenty to offer.	2002-08-14
US	49300980	R1HJMCJYLO2EGO	0743446496	559570503	The Right Words At the Right Time	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Timely Cliches	You'd be quite right to expect some cliches from a book that fits right into the 'chicken soup for the soul' genre. Nevertheless \\"The Right Words at the Right Time\\" is a book that definitely has something for everybody.<br />The overall concept is to give 100 distinguished figures from various fields -- including sports, politics, and entertainment, as well as some of the less glamourous professions -- the chance to write about a moment when words changed their life for the better. Among those who participated in this charity project to raise money for a children's research hospital are such legends as Steven Spielberg and Paul McCartney, as well as household names from former President Jimmy Carter to the creator of the Simpsons, Matt Groening.<br />While the words that inspired top lifestyle uberfrau Martha Stewart -- \\"...\\" -- might seem a little ironic in view of her recent troubles, even such cliches take on new meanings in these short inspiring vignettes. For example, behind the words \\"If anything's worth doing, it's worth doing well,\\" news anchor Walter Cronkite tells a heartwarming story of how a role model set him on the right road in journalism. While ecological activist Ralph Nader presents a stirring tale of overcoming bullying with the words from his mother, \\"Ralph, are you going to grow up to be a follower or a leader?\\"<br />The most interesting stories are from those who experienced true hardship -- such as US senator John McCain's riveting account of his years spent as a POW in Vietnam. But, yet again, it's not the words themselves so much as their context and timing that gives them their impact.<br />Some might see this as a celebrity collection of Forrest Gumpisms. But although some of these short tales are too obvious or seem to be serving the purpose of self-glorification, most are sincerely written, reveal something truly interesting about the person, and may possibly provide you with your own inspirations.	2002-08-04
US	49300980	R22IESVXZH8FCR	0066620996	205785288	Good to Great: Why Some Companies Make the Leap and Others Don't	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Good's Not All Bad	In his previous book, \\"Built to Last,\\" business writer Jim Collins looked at those companies, like Hewlett-Packard and Merck, that started off on the right foot with the right business DNA, in other words those companies that were born great. In \\"Good to Great\\" he now turns his attention to the more practical question of companies that achieve greatness.<br />With the help of a large research team, Collins used a rigorous selection process that identified 11 companies showing a transition from a 15 year period of stock returns no better than 1.25 times the general market to a 15 year period of stock returns more than 3 times the general market. These companies, which included the likes of Gillette and Philip Morris, were then subjected to detailed analysis and compared with similar companies that failed to make the leap to greatness, and even with some companies that made the initial leap only to fall back. \\"Good to Great\\" represents the condensed findings of this massive research project, with a range of findings from the logical to the startling that make this book essential reading for anybody in business.<br />Avoiding fancy jargon, Collins writes in a clear, concise style that uses effective analogies to get his points across. For example, Aesop's fable of the fox and the hedgehog is turned to good effect to contrast those companies that look sleek and skillful but ultimately fail, with those that look more unassuming but know one big thing that ensures their success.<br />Perhaps the most shocking finding regards styles of leadership, with the great-to-good companies being led by quiet, modest, self-effacing CEOs who combine professional will with personal humility and typically come from within the company -- a marked contrast with the messianic, high-profile CEO who claims to know all the answers.<br />This is a great book of its kind, but it misses the main point. Underneath all the positive and disciplined thinking favoured by Collins, is the simple metaphysical fact that too much business is killing our planet. Greater efficieny in business merely speeds up our manipulation by materialism, unleashing the uncontrollable economic cycles of growth that will finally chew up our hapless globe till it is reduced to an overpopulated and overexpolited travesty of greed, materialism, and subjection of the human spirit in the name of business efficiency.taphysical fact that too much business is killing our planet. Greater efficieny in business merely speeds up our manipulation by materialism, unleashing the uncontrollable economic cycles of growth that will finally chew up our hapless globe till it is reduced to an overpopulated and overexpolited travesty of greed, materialism, and subjection of the human spirit in the name of business efficiency.	2002-05-06
US	49300980	R265CNVYRVTOME	0921368909	417874661	Diana Thorneycroft: The Body, Its Lesson and Camouflage	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Shot in the Dark	\\"My work is not representative of dreams but comes from the same place as dreams\\" -- This is perhaps the best explanation of the work of photographer Diana Thorneycroft.<br />Using a range of sometimes disturbing props and masks, and naked or semi-naked models, including herself, Thorneycroft creates images in the dark using a flashlight and long exposures. Bypassing the visual, rational world, the often nightmarish images created explore issues of sexuality and vulnerability on a subconscious level. As she puts it, \\"The body speaks a language the mind doesn't.\\"<br />Intriguing, but not everybody's cup of tea, which probably explains why this book is so expensive.	2002-03-13
US	49300980	R145QURK7EPXZO	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Mandala of the Universe	Stephen Hawking is a phenomenon of our age. We are all familiar with his tragic form: confined by Lou Gehrig's disease to a wheelchair, unable to move, his great mind reduced to communicating through the medium of an unearthly computerized voice. Just as we sometimes believe the blind are gifted with second sight or uncanny musical ability, most of us can't help suspecting that Hawking has been compensated for his disability by being granted a special insight into the true nature of our Universe, that he has somehow seen privileged to see the face of God.<br />Such notions were no doubt behind the incredible success of his first book, &quot;A Brief History of Time&quot; (1988). Considering the difficulty of the subject matter, which can best be expressed through complex mathematical formula, and the fact that it was the first book of its kind to top bestseller lists around the world, this work soon became notorious as the most unread book of all time.<br />With the release of &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell,&quot; the great physicist has descended from the Mount Sinai of scientific wisdom with a fresh set of tablets engraved with the secrets of the Universe. Keen to avoid the mistakes of the first work, this book is markedly more accessible, less text heavy, and extremely well illustrated, with half the book consisting of various diagrams that enable the reader to get the gist of such advanced concepts as 11-dimensional supergravity, multi-dimensional spacetime, p-branes, string theory, and time loops, to mention a few.<br />Most of the concepts presented here are pure mathematical constructs that have little chance of being empirically proven or disproven for some time yet. They therefore exist as a kind of Buddhist mandala, helping us to contemplate, without fully understanding, the immense mystery of our Universe.<br />With a style  reminiscent of the science writer Isaac Asimov, the book succeeds in being a lot more readable. Inevitably this has brought charges of 'dumbing down' and oversimplification. &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell&quot; nevertheless remains a challenging and entertaining read, and ideal as the kind of book you want to leave lying around at home to give visitors an idea of just how deep and intellectual you really are (even if you aren't).arges of 'dumbing down' and oversimplification. &quot;The Universe in a Nutshell&quot; nevertheless remains a challenging and entertaining read, and ideal as the kind of book you want to leave lying around at home to give visitors an idea of just how deep and intellectual you really are (even if you aren't).	2002-02-18
US	49300980	R3TKN021EUO8OE	0609606352	413235641	How the Scots Invented the Modern World: The True Story of How Western Europe's Poorest Nation Created Our World and Everything in It	Books	3	19	27	N	N	Many a Muckle Makes a Mickle!	For any Scotsman (like me), this must prove an enthralling read. The idea of the 'Scotsman on the make' is well established, but imagine what it does to our fluttering national ego to learn that this same 'Scotsman on the make' was actually MAKING the whole modern world and everything in it!!! Heady stuff!<br />But, actually, this is a false pleasure. A similar case could be made for just about every major European country and a few minor ones (Holland,Portugal, and Greece). This makes me wonder about the whole point of having such a book. The writer is apparently an American academic, and with a name like Herman we can't suppose he is one of our long lost clansmen whose ancestors were exiled to the wild and barren New World after 'coming out' in the '45.<br />I therefore suspect the author is being a little manipulative. By overstating his case, raising a few hackles, and puffing up the pride of a little nation that is more susceptible to this kind of pat on the back than most, he knows he's going to shift some books. Maybe he even intends to do a whole series, working his way down to the Baltic States or Iceland. Or maybe he's just trying to ride the Braveheart phenomenon.<br />But remember Scottish Greatness - like the greatness of any European country - didn't occur in a vacuum. Herman recognizes this by concentrating on the 18th and 19th centuries when Scotland had entwined its fate with that of its large neighbour to the South.<br />Rather than stirring up petty, parochial, 'down-with-England' nationalism, therefore, the achievements catalogued in this book should remind readers how beneficial to Scottish greatness the Union with England was. This, more than anything, gave Scotland the stage that its recent upsurge in petty nationalism threatens to take away.	2002-02-12
US	49300980	RBWGJW2ON4VMB	0821224999	631913935	DE CHIRICO: The Metaphysical Period	Books	3	12	14	N	N	The Mindscapes of de Chirico	True surrealism is the most profound form of art because it tackles the absurdities and contradictions of our modern world and helps us to work them out through our Subconsciousness and dreams. The first time I saw an exhibition of de Chirico's works, I had extremely vivid and memorable dreams for a week after and felt &quot;cured.&quot;<br />But like any religion that can deeply touch people, Surrealism, once it became famous also attracted its fair share of quacks and charlatans. This is why de Chirico is so important: In the same way that Patti Smith was 'punk' before Punk Rock was officially invented, de Chirico was a surrealist before the Surrealist Movement took conscious shape with Andre Breton's shrill &quot;Manifesto of Surrealism&quot; in 1924. De Chirico didn't jump on the bandwagon. He was pulling it!<br />This worthy but pricey (therefore minus a couple of stars) book focuses on this early period when de Chirico was happily pursuing his own path into the twilight, undisturbed by the excessive fuss that the Surrealist movement and its showmen, like Dali, later whipped up.<br />Paintings like &quot;The Endless Voyage&quot; (1914) show a jarring clutter of objects setting up intangible lines of tension, often with humorous results. In effect, his art works like the human brain, abstracting images and objects from their natural context and relocating them to the landscape of the mind and memory.<br />Setting the stage with his deserted cityscapes painted with sharp contrasts of light and shadow, distorted perspectives, and a blurring of the border between interior and exterior, de Chirico evokes a haunting, ominous, but strangely relaxing dream world. This deep psychological aspect of his paintings has him constantly reinterpreting themes, leading to recurrent motifs. In these early paintings lavishly reproduced in this massive tome, he constantly uses statues as focal points, later replaced by his trademark faceless mannequins. Other mysterious objects further increase the element of enigma.<br />De Chirico was a surrealist more by accident than design and his work relied less heavily on overt humor and shock than the more famous surrealists who followed him, like Dali and Magritte. De Chirico's focus was always on beauty and the creation of moods through an appeal to a deeper psychological language. For this reason, while much surrealist work has dated like an old joke, Chirico's art is still as fresh as ever.s further increase the element of enigma. <br />De Chirico was a surrealist more by accident than design and his work relied less heavily on overt humor and shock than the more famous surrealists who followed him, like Dali and Magritte. De Chirico's focus was always on beauty and the creation of moods through an appeal to a deeper psychological language. For this reason, while much surrealist work has dated like an old joke, Chirico's art is still as fresh as ever.	2002-01-27
US	49300980	RKQZKBJ8EPIW9	0802150578	423996705	American Buffalo	Books	2	15	27	N	N	Painted into a Corner	In this play about three low life thugs, Mamet was trying to take a shot at America and its business ethics. The Indian associations of the title was a loose attempt to suggest the fundamental chicanery of a society whose founding act was the dispossession of the former owners of the land. But the problem with this play is that BOB, DON, and TEACH are so 'dumbed down' and their dialogue so impoverished that all Mamet can do is create a moral fog.<br />America may well be founded on the crime of dispossession and the genocide of the Indians, but a buffalo's head on a coin in a play hardly suggests any of this and is certainly incapable of presenting the rights and wrongs of the case. The logical extension of capitalist drives may indeed be a criminal society, but a few petty criminals mouthing off phrases of capitalist jargon, obviously detached from the comprehensive arguments of capitalist ideology, hardly proves this inherent criminality or reveals the complex processes by which capitalism encourages crime.<br />In the play TEACH defines 'free enterprise' as: \\"The freedom of the individual to embark on any course that he sees fit.\\" In dialogue like this Mamet is apparently hoping to link the amoral self-interest of his characters to the principles of the American Revolution.<br />But the characters' relevance is limited by a number of factors. First, their ignorance and inability to express themselves severely limits any exposition and critique of society. Also, because Mamet is attempting a particularly bleak and stark form of realist drama. There is no opportunity, as with, say, the early plays of Eugene O'Neill, to present us with archetypal characters embodying whole race or class positions. Who does TEACH stand for besides himself?<br />Because of the 'literalness' of his form, if we want to find a critique of society, we must look for it more directly in the evident relations of the characters to the broader society. Such an avenue, however, remains firmly blocked as the characters are isolated from society. Indeed, they seem to belong to an almost self-contained little universe, centering around \\"Don's Resale Shop.\\"<br />If Mamet is attempting in this play to present us with a 'reductio ad absurdum' showing the inherent criminality of American business ethics, then, he has painted himself into a corner. His characters lack consciousness, social relevance, and symbolism, all factors that allow a playwright to tackle social and moral problems. \\"American Buffalo\\" is extremely limited in the extent to which it can refer outwards to the greater society. All he can give us, in effect, is the 'absurdum' without the 'reductio', the criminality detached from the social forces that create it.<br /><br />This play is a failure, but Mamet was able to return more successfully to these themes in \\"Glengarry Glen Ross.\\" where the greater eloquence of his characters, dishonest land salesmen, allowed him to express more coherently the amorality of American business imperatives.ly blocked as the characters are isolated from society. Indeed, they seem to belong to an almost self-contained little universe, centering around \\"Don's Resale Shop.\\" <br />If Mamet is attempting in this play to present us with a 'reductio ad absurdum' showing the inherent criminality of American business ethics, then, he has painted himself into a corner. His characters lack consciousness, social relevance, and symbolism, all factors that allow a playwright to tackle social and moral problems. \\"American Buffalo\\" is extremely limited in the extent to which it can refer outwards to the greater society. All he can give us, in effect, is the 'absurdum' without the 'reductio', the criminality detached from the social forces that create it. <BR> <BR>This play is a failure, but Mamet was able to return more successfully to these themes in \\"Glengarry Glen Ross.\\" where the greater eloquence of his characters, dishonest land salesmen, allowed him to express more coherently the amorality of American business imperatives.	2002-01-27
US	49300980	R2P0MVW8UO7PTA	0896585190	147957509	Charles Rennie Mackintosh : Architect, Artist, Icon	Books	4	12	20	N	N	Yin and Yang Mate in the Cold Hard North	Glasgow is as far North as Moscow. In the time of Charles Rennie Mackintosh it was a tough, smokey, industrial city still living in the shadow of centuries of Scottish Puritanism. Not exactly the most promising  environment you would think for an artistic movement that created the works of exquisite beauty presented in this book.<br />Charles Rennie Mackintosh, with a tight-knit group of fellow artists known as the Glasgow School, ensured that Glasgow at the turn of the century was an integral part of the international Art Nouveau movement, that was also flourishing in Paris and Vienna. The Art Nouveau movement is now seen as a major watershed in global culture because it was the first major art movement that drew inspiration equally from East and West.<br />As art evolved away from representative art, spiritual aspects came more into play. As with the Secessionist in Vienna, the German Expressionist, and the French Symbolists, mystical ideas became increasingly prominent, turning much of this art into a kind of ouija-board farce. The ghostly and heavily-symbolic works of the other members of the Glasgow School earned them the nickname of the &quot;Spook School&quot; and saw them marginalized.<br />But while much of the painting of the time reflects the faux spirituality of misunderstood oriental mysticism and sham seances, Mackintosh's work was distinguished by his deep, instinctive understanding of Oriental aesthetics, expressed unpretentiously in beautiful lines. This gave him the Midas touch at whatever he turned his hand to.<br />In his painting, posters, stained glass windows, furniture, and  architecture, we can see the masterly interplay of straight and curved lines. Although John McKean's rather pedantic text in the book doesn't really emphasise this point enough, what we in fact experience in the stimulating tension between Mackintosh's straight and curved lines, is no less than a fusion of yin and yang, the 'female' and 'male' components of the Universe.<br />Fighting an uphill struggle in a city that didnÕt really understand his unique aesthetic, Mackintosh still managed to do an impressive amount of work as Colin Baxter's excellent pictures reveal. The greatest fulfillment of his art is in 3-D work, especially his furniture designs, which are notoriously difficult to photograph well, although here Baxter does a good job.<br />It was with furniture, especially in his many chair designs, that he most fulfilled his aesthetic. While most furniture designers of the period gave into the yin or the 'feminine,' with over-elaborate curves and rich decoration, creating a heavy effect, Mackintosh played these 'feminine' aspects off against the yang or 'masculine' by emphasizing simplicity and straightness, creating an uplifting tension that was not only beautiful in itself but also interacted with the curvature of the human form.<br />While much of Art Nouveau art and design is forever anchored in the historical period that created it, the work of Mackintosh continues to float with us into the future.se. <br />Fighting an uphill struggle in a city that didnÕt really understand his unique aesthetic, Mackintosh still managed to do an impressive amount of work as Colin Baxter's excellent pictures reveal. The greatest fulfillment of his art is in 3-D work, especially his furniture designs, which are notoriously difficult to photograph well, although here Baxter does a good job. <br />It was with furniture, especially in his many chair designs, that he most fulfilled his aesthetic. While most furniture designers of the period gave into the yin or the 'feminine,' with over-elaborate curves and rich decoration, creating a heavy effect, Mackintosh played these 'feminine' aspects off against the yang or 'masculine' by emphasizing simplicity and straightness, creating an uplifting tension that was not only beautiful in itself but also interacted with the curvature of the human form. <br />While much of Art Nouveau art and design is forever anchored in the historical period that created it, the work of Mackintosh continues to float with us into the future.	2002-01-26
US	49300980	RW4SY5EH1GFAA	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Wild Man River	This is a tale of a boat trip up the Congo, although nowhere in the book is the actual name of that river or the Belgian colony that emerged on its banks ever used. The writer, Joseph Conrad, was probably more interesting than any of his characters. Although writing about stiff-upper-lip types and managing to be more English than the English, he was actually born in a country that was undergoing its own form of colonization in those days, that is Poland. Going to sea, Conrad experienced many adventures around the globe, providing him with the rich stock of stories that were to win him acceptance from the English reading public.<br />Most people now come across this book as part of some college course condemning colonialism. At least that's how I came across it. Others might know it as the prototype for Francis Ford Coppola's amazing movie &quot;Apocalypse Now.&quot;<br />Although an enthralling read, it is also a strangely vacuous book and, as a consequence, extremely well-named, as Kurtz, the central character, remains a dark enigma at the heart of the story to the end. We never really get to know who he is. Sent by the Belgian colonial authorities upriver, Kurtz has 'gone native' and our narrator is sent after him to investigate.<br />This format allows the narrator to drop-feed us information about Kurtz during the long river voyage, giving us pieces of a jigsaw that is never completed. As we read we are nevertheless tantalized by the prospect of meeting the man who has scrawled  &quot;Exterminate all the brutes&quot; on his report for the &quot;International Society for the Suppression of Savage Customs,&quot; participated in &quot;unspeakable rites,&quot; and established his authority among the natives through the uncivilized practice of impaling heads on poles.<br />Is this a true picture of colonialism? During his life as a sailor, the writer visited the Belgian Congo so the details ring true. Also the objective, descriptive, and rather emotionally detached style of the narrator proves convincing. Nevertheless there is something rather mechanical about this picture. Conrad presents economic exploitation or vicious greed as the dominant if not the only force in this view of colonialism. Perhaps in the case of the Belgian Congo, a particularly brutal colonial system, this is justified, but those college students being fed this novel as representative of colonialism in general should be more wary.<br />To our modern materialistic sensibilities, it makes perfect sense that colonialism should be so greed-driven, but there were also more altruistic motives at work such as the desire to 'save,' 'educate,' and 'civilize' the natives. Conrad treats these with a healthy dose of cynicism. The philanthropic motives, sincerely believed by many in the home country, such as Marlow's Aunt, become in the face of the ruthless greed and brutality existing in the Congo no more than empty jargon, ironically spoked to justify the terrible cruelties inflicted on the natives for the benefit of the Company. But quite often these motives were actually sincere and brought great improvements to the natives, in many cases actually giving them the tools with which they later won their independence.<br />Although condemning their exploiters, Conrad has little real understanding of the natives who always remain mysterious and unfathomable:<br />&quot;The prehistoric man was cursing us, praying to us, welcoming us - who could tell? We glided past like phantoms, wondering and secretly appalled, as sane men would be before an enthusiastic outbreak in a madhouse.&quot;<br />In this there is a lack of true sympathy, which however reassures us that he is not exaggerating or sentimentalizing the plight of the Africans. Colonialism was certainly not a blessing; maybe it wasn't a mixed blessing, but it might have been a mixed curse. Anyway, however you choose to view it, it undoubtedly had a profound impact on the economy, environment, culture, and identity ofnative peoples. We get little of this from Conrad and his &quot;unfathomable savages.&quot;ity of native peoples. We get little of this from Conrad and his &quot;unfathomable savages.&quot;	2002-01-17
US	49300980	R29PKOG2EVNAAM	0802136923	288267277	The Normal Heart and the Destiny of Me	Books	1	8	42	N	N	A Remorseless Slide	The Normal Heart was a brave attempt to confront the public with the AIDS epidemic at a time when it was decimating America's gay population and was still seen as a 'Gay Plague.' Unfortunately it was not well written enough to do more than mildly shock and disgust.<br />I used to think I didn't sympathize with the characters because they are gay and I'm not, but this is not the case. It is because the characters are not developed as interesting and worthwhile personalities beyond their sexuality and disease.<br />A mysterious killer disease like AIDS is hard to write about because good play writing needs to be about the interplay of factors, whereas AIDS is just a remorseless slide into disease and death. It is very difficult for those affected to respond in a coherent or meaningful way. There can be no powerful dialogue between man and disease. Instead of powerful action-reaction sequences to stimulate our emotions and intellect, the play is broken into confused monologues that rail against fate and fail to develop any real insight.<br />As the play is supposed to be about AIDS, it avoids being about much else, but it doesn't effectively connect with it's subject matter either. AIDS is merely a gloomy backdrop for the self-absorbed writhings and torment of the diseased characters. I am supposed to sympathize with them, but I only find this spectacle disgusting and devoid of noble or inspiring emotions.	2001-11-23
US	49300980	R3DQZNZUU57GEA	0811213463	922397383	The Samurai (New Directions Classic)	Books	2	3	27	N	N	Pot Noodle Bushido	This novel of a 17th century samurai's odyssey to Europe starts as a very straightforward story and rather continues that way, but towards the end, Endo does get in a few good points. The style is somewhat pedantic and staid, but easy to read. It's certainly not a zen classic and the story never really gets off the ground or totally convinces. The historical backdrops are paper thin and obvious cut-and-pastes from history textbooks. I must admit I am somewhat baffled by all the rave reviews here. I can only conclude that a lot of people who don't really have much experience of Japan, think they've stumbled upon some sort of motherlode of bushido spirit in this conveniantly Westernized piece of writing by a Japanesese Christian. Remember, not every Japanese woman is a geisha, and not every Japanese writer can wield his pen like a samurai's sword.	2001-11-23
US	49300980	R3O71TI1ENC6W8	0192834118	187016080	The Idiot (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Divinely Inspired?	It is said that if you take a zillion monkeys and set each of them clacking away at a typewriter then eventually one of them will produce the complete works of William Shakespeare. Well to produce such a book as &quot;The Idiot,&quot; you would need to employ in place of the monkeys, a similar number of brilliant authors - genuises no less - and maybe, just maybe a book as excellent as Dostoyevsky's &quot;The Idiot&quot; might be produced.<br />If some of the duller parts of the Bible are supposed to have been written under the guidance of divine inspiration, what then are we to suppose of a work like this that glows with spiritual power?	2001-11-03
US	49300980	R2NC4LT2MOI5N1	0140432183	18492904	The House with Green Shutters (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	The Pride and the Tragedy	What is tragedy and how does it work? These are questions you will understand better after reading this book. Set sometime in the second half of the 19th century, the story concerns the fortunes of the Gourlay family in the small Scottish town of Barbie. John Gourlay, a big, domineering, but intellectualy challenged man dominates the local economy and has a monopoly of the carrying trade. He is harsh and powerful, of bull-like stature, and famous for his glower. On a brae overlooking Barbie he has built the House wIth the Green Shutters. This house is both the symbol of his dominance and an object of hatred and envy to the townsfolk.<br />Aristotle defined tragedy as a story depicting the downfall of a great man. At first it is hard to see this stupid, cruel, and grasping merchant as a great man, but The House With the Green Shutters will also improve your notions of what greatness is. John Gourlay is great because there is no fear or compromise in him. Although he may wish to be well thought of by the small-minded, two-faced gossips of the town, he is not prepared to go one inch out of his way for them, scorning even the banal pleasantries of small talk or phatic communication. He wants only their respect not their love, and respect him they do even though they also hate him.<br />With all true tragedy the tragic element comes directly from the greatness. It is his greatness that destroys John Gourlay. His stubborn pride and unflinching courage are qualities more suited to some heroic age of battles and revolutions. They do not fit into the petty, hypocritical world of 19th century Scotland. In this unheroic world his heroic qualities can only work towards his downfall. The thought constantly in one's mind as you read this novel is, 'If only he were a lesser man . . .' His inability to compromise by lowering himself to the same level as his fellow citizens, works to his disadvantage. Unable to plot, maneuver, and dissemble, his little empire is soon undermined by the arrival in town of Wilson, a glib self-seeking nobody with no real passion, but a much abler businessman in tune with the times. Affable and manipulative, false and corrupt he starts to squeeze Gourlay out of one thing after another. This is ,in effect, the triumph of style over substance that so bedevils our modern age. Although grim, proud and dour, Gourlay is an honest man, inept at chicanery, and unable to bend to suit the occasion.<br />The House With the Green Shutters is a tragedy in the full classical Greek sense of the word; the preordained fall of a hero who doesn't fit into an unheroic world; a great bull sacrificed to appease the Gods for human hubris. It is even more poignant from the fact that its keynote of tragedy was reflected in the life of its young author who had the misfortune to die only one year after writing such a masterpiece.the arrival in town of Wilson, a glib self-seeking nobody with no real passion, but a much abler businessman in tune with the times. Affable and manipulative, false and corrupt he starts to squeeze Gourlay out of one thing after another. This is ,in effect, the triumph of style over substance that so bedevils our modern age. Although grim, proud and dour, Gourlay is an honest man, inept at chicanery, and unable to bend to suit the occasion. <br />The House With the Green Shutters is a tragedy in the full classical Greek sense of the word; the preordained fall of a hero who doesn't fit into an unheroic world; a great bull sacrificed to appease the Gods for human hubris. It is even more poignant from the fact that its keynote of tragedy was reflected in the life of its young author who had the misfortune to die only one year after writing such a masterpiece.	2001-10-15
US	49300980	RTUHMM2RVW932	039541685X	537283254	The Second World War	Books	3	16	43	N	N	The Words Don't Fit the Pictures	The Second World War is a story that will never grow cold. This was a historical drama on a massive scale and all those who participated in that titanic struggle have an assured collective immortality. Churchill was the leading rhetorician of the war. Deeply involved in the war himself as the leader of the embattled British Empire, the words he spoke and wrote have shaped the way we see the events of that stormy time.<br />It might be supposed, therefore, that his history of the war is the best testament of this pivotal moment in human history. I would beg to differ. As the chief rhetorician of the war, he was also one of the chief distorters of its events. In this book, the propaganda expediencies that were vital to maintain the flagging morale of the war-weary British people, have been coined into so-called facts and passed off as the genuine currency of historical truth.<br />Those events with which Churchill was most involved are the ones most distorted in his account. Although he has the image of the great war leader, Churchill's tactical and strategical mistakes were so many and so destructive that it is a miracle that Britain survived. Perhaps there was little he could have done to prevent the overwhelming German victory of 1940, but in 1941 he was responsible for one disaster after another. In North Africa, the one bright spot at this time, the British army was driving back a larger Italian force and threatening to drive Axis forces from the entire continent. Rather than achieve this worthy goal, Churchill uprooted the victorious army and sent it off to Greece, where it immediately suffered ignoble defeat. Fleeing back to Africa, the British troops left behind most of their heavy equipment in a second Dunkirk. Thus weakened, they were unable to stop the Italians, reinforced by a small German force led by Rommell, from regaining all Libya and threatening Egypt.<br />At this time, Churchill was also sowing the seeds for the debacle in the East. In the expectation of a Japanese attack, he insisted on heavily reinforcing the important military base of Singapore, pouring in thousands of troops. Unfortunately, he gave them almost no air or sea cover, so that when the Japanese attacked, they were hopelessly outmaneuvered, cut off, defeated, and marched off into the jungle to build railroads and die. This was unquestionably the biggest military disaster in British history.<br />It is obvious that if the war had been left up to Churchill, Britain would soon have been defeated. Luckily for Britain, Hitler and the Japanese were stupid enough to throw their superior military machines against the USA and the Soviet Union, giving Britain the allies it badly needed. Of course, being half American, Churchill gives the USA its due, but reading this book, one gets the impression that the tide of the war turned at El Alamein and the decisive battle was D-Day. The reality is, however, that 7 out of every 10 Germans killed in the war died on the Russian front.<br />Despite his powerful allies, Churchill continued to be behind stupid and, indeed, immoral decisions. For some inexplicable reason, he sent thousands of Canadians to their deaths by a foolish attack on the French town of Dieppe. He also famously described Italy as the &quot;Soft Underbelly of Europe,&quot; leading to its Invasion in 1943. After landing in the South, the vast Allied armies were held on the narrow front across the peninsular by much smaller German forces, and were only allowed to advance at a snail's pace while the decisive events of the war played out on the Eastern Front.<br />Luckily for the allies, Churchill was increasingly marginalized in the decision-making process, but with Germany on the ropes, he made perhaps his worst decision of the War, the terror bombing of German Cities. Sending vast armadas of bombers to attack civilian centres did little to stop enemy war production, but the cost in innocent civilians murdered and Allied air crews shot down was immense. With this action, Churchill put himself on the same descending rung of the ladder as Hitler.<br />This book is certainly not suitable as an introductory text on World War II, but with the full historical facts in view, it provides an intriguing picture of how rhetoric is written and history distorted.as immense. With this action, Churchill put himself on the same descending rung of the ladder as Hitler. <br />This book is certainly not suitable as an introductory text on World War II, but with the full historical facts in view, it provides an intriguing picture of how rhetoric is written and history distorted.	2001-09-23
US	49300980	R3CWFHAW5ZC52L	185326170X	4938107	The Coral Island (Wordsworth Children's Classics)	Books	2	19	29	N	N	Children's Crusade	Ballantyne's main purpose in writing &quot;The Coral Island&quot; was to provide an exciting adventure story for boys. This is borne out by the interesting and varied storyline.<br />Another one of his intentions was clearly to educate. There are many examples of this, such as the detailed explanations concerning Ralph's aquarium. Since the boys are shipwrecked in the wild, most of this educational emphasis falls on the wonders of nature. Several chapters have the character of educational digressions, for instance, the chapter where the boys visit the penguins and the behaviour of that species is described.<br />The most dated aspect of the book, which might be part of its charm for some readers, is its strong Christian morality. Ballantyne attempts to make his book morally instructive, and offers clear religious guidance throughout.<br />Besides rhetoric extolling the benefits of Christianity, it also attempts to guide its impressionable young readers towards the Christian virtues by presenting the example of Ralph and his reflections. Just as the juvenile readership will identify with Ralph in his 'heroic' adventures, it can be expected they will also share his opinions regarding religion. An example of the Christian tone of the novel can be found in the description of the island scene at the beginning of chapter sixteen:<br />&quot;Oh! it was a sight fitted to stir the soul of man to its profoundest depths, and, if he owned a heart at all, to lift that heart in adoration and gratitude to the great Creator of this magnificent and glorious universe&quot;.<br />&quot;The Coral Island&quot; endeavors to educate its readership and at the same time seeks to guide them along the path of Christian virtue. However, it is not just Christianity but the full range of British Victorian values that the author tries to instill. He devotes part of chapter eleven to recommending the benefits of cold baths and part of chapter fourteen to the imperative that they should force their attention &quot;upon all things.&quot;<br />&quot;The Coral Island&quot; reflects the spiritual and altruistic side of 19th-century European attitudes to the primitive World. While this was a time of intense colonialization and economic exploitation -- see Conrad's &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; -- Ballantyne clearly rejects economic motives in determining conduct towards these peoples. He also rejects the idea, then common, that primitives must first be conquered and controlled in order to be improved. He believed that Christianity alone was strong enough to transform them. For instance, Ralph, commenting on &quot;the natural depravity of the hearts of these poor savages,&quot; merely wishes &quot;that missionaries might be sent out to them&quot; -- he does not advocate conquest and colonialism as remedies.<br />It is one of the most interesting and perhaps ridiculous points in Ballantyne's work that he regards the free acceptance of Christianity by the natives as being able to bring about all the benefits of European civilization. In the story, after they have undergone conversion, the natives are portrayed as being well on the way to civilization. The neat well-built village of the Christian natives is contrasted with that of the pagan ones. No longer do the Christianized islanders eat each other and indulge in human sacrifice, and no longer do they live in a semi-anarchic, semi-tyrannical state dominated by some brutal chief where the &quot;weakest goes to the wall.&quot;<br />The progress brought about by Christianity is at it's most evident in the Christian natives manning their own sailing ship, the native missionary ship. Ballantyne has an unshakeable faith in the sufficiency of voluntary Christianity to improve the conditions and conduct of the natives, and there is no hint in his novel that altruistic concern should lead to measures forced on the natives for their own good.<br />Ballantyne also attempts to place naked economic motives beyond the pale of civilization by identifying them with the pirates, who represent the purely economic motifs of Europeans.<br />&quot;The Coral Island,&quot; despite its impeccable moral credentials, is also a statement of supreme confidence in European civilization and its Christian morality. Whereas the natives are transformed, the Europeans in the story remain blissfully unchanged by their experiences. This contrasts very strongly with &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; where the character of Kurtz 'goes native' with horrific effects. The spiritually-minded Christian trio in &quot;The Coral Island&quot; are totally immune to their completely new environment. It was this case of schoolboy 'stiff upper lips' that later prompted William Golding to write &quot;Lord of the Flies,&quot; presenting a much more believable picture of the way civilization breaks down and schoolboy morality unravels in the wild.e of civilization by identifying them with the pirates, who represent the purely economic motifs of Europeans. <br />&quot;The Coral Island,&quot; despite its impeccable moral credentials, is also a statement of supreme confidence in European civilization and its Christian morality. Whereas the natives are transformed, the Europeans in the story remain blissfully unchanged by their experiences. This contrasts very strongly with &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot; where the character of Kurtz 'goes native' with horrific effects. The spiritually-minded Christian trio in &quot;The Coral Island&quot; are totally immune to their completely new environment. It was this case of schoolboy 'stiff upper lips' that later prompted William Golding to write &quot;Lord of the Flies,&quot; presenting a much more believable picture of the way civilization breaks down and schoolboy morality unravels in the wild.	2001-07-17
US	49300980	R1X5423HG7YEEI	0066210828	429116202	Soul Mountain	Books	2	11	15	N	N	528-page Fortune Cookie	The author of this Nobel Prize-winning novel was born in China in 1940. After becoming a renowned writer both nationally and internationally, he went into exile, settling in France in 1987. &quot;Soul Mountain&quot; was first published 3 years later in Taiwan.<br />The leading character in this autobiographical novel is a writer who is considered persona non grata by the government. After being wrongly diagnosed with lung cancer, he sets out on a spiritual journey through China in the hope of finding his true self. These themes reflect the author's own experiences. He was also wrongly diagnosed with lung cancer and left Beijing for political reasons to travel overseas.  The name of the novel comes from the destination of a person the protagonist meets on a train. After this meeting, he is also filled with an urge to visit Soul Mountain, but doesn't know how to get there. Instead he goes to a giant panda reserve deep in the mountains, visits tribal villages, and stops at an ancient city to muse on the great poets of the past. He also visits his childhood home on the Yangtze River only to find that it has been completely modernized.<br />The message of the book seems to be finding contentment in our lives. The narrator encounters people satisfied with what they are, such as a ranger living peacefully in a remote area without any concern for money or prestige. He also meets a traveling monk who used to be a doctor before, and asks him why he became a monk.<br />One of the tricks Gao uses is the ambiguous use of personal pronouns. He meets 'her' during his odyssey, and enriches the narrative by telling her numerous stories, but who she is remains unclear. Because the narrator is on a spiritual journey as much as a physical one, we are left unsure as to whether he finally reaches Soul Mountain.<br />Using the journey as a metaphor for life, this novel tries to explore many of the issues that face us in life. For some, this will fill a spiritual vacuum and seem very profound, but for others - especially cynics like me - this will seem as profound as a 528-page fortune cookie.profound, but for others - especially cynics like me - this will seem as profound as a 528-page fortune cookie.	2001-07-09
US	49300980	RNRW18OULV4XE	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	3	61	75	N	N	A Subtle Critique of Globalization	Jhumpa Lahiri is an ethnic Bengali writer, born in London. brought up in America, who writes in English. As someone caught between the rootless culture of the modern developed world and the more tradition-bound culture of India, she is well positioned to exploit that vague sense of unease that we feel when we turn our back on our roots and traditions.<br />The short stories collected in this Pulitzer Prize-winning volume focus on different aspects of the modern Indian experience. Stories like &quot;Sexy&quot; and &quot;This Blessed House&quot; deal with Filofax-toting, young Indian professionals, apparently successful in the academic or computer fields in the USA, but nevertheless unsure of themselves and spiritually cast adrift in their adopted country. Often a contrast is made between traditional lifestyles, which, although far from perfect, seem somehow more real than modern ones. This echoes the way Chekhov used to juxtapose the hollow, glittery lives of the Russian bourgeoisie with the earthy lives of the peasants.<br />In &quot;Mrs Sen's&quot; the painstaking method of preparing proper Indian meals, involving a litany of vegetables, is seen through the eyes of a young white boy whose single mother is too busy to look after him. But Lahiri is a good enough writer not to commit herself to narrow cliches about a 'spiritually vacuous West' or a 'soulful India.' Her stories set in the Subcontinent, like &quot;The Treatment of Bibi Haldar,&quot; show how superstitious and narrow-minded such societies can be regarding illness and the need for marriage. The women in &quot;This Blessed House&quot; and &quot;A Temporary Affair,&quot; by contrast, seem liberated by their lives in America.<br />These stories explore the psychological and spiritual fissures opened up by the cultural dissonance of our modern age, and, as such, should strike a chord with anyone dissatisfied with the complexity and shallowness of out modern lives. The ultimate value of these stories is that they offer a subtle critique of globalization.t they offer a subtle critique of globalization.	2001-05-07
US	49300980	R2MVS79WEOM5CX	0385334303	900904156	The Naked Ape: A Zoologist's Study of the Human Animal	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Naked Truth	There are certain people who just get an enormous kick out of telling the truth; especially when it involves disclosing something that other people don't particularly wish to hear. Desmond Morris fits into this category. The idea that we are just a few, tiny DNA notches above our ape cousins, can't be particularly welcome to most people, especially to the \\"Brain Luddites\\" of religious fundamentalism, but nevertheless it is the truth, and, in this book, Morris seems to take great pleasure in letting us know this.<br /><br />He writes in a clear, lucid style that avoids unnecessary jargon and gives the attentive reader plenty of time to keep up with the flow of his ideas. One way he does this is to organize the book into 'organic' chapters, focusing on different aspects of human behavior, such as \\"Sex\\", \\"Fighting\\", \\"Feeding\\", etc. Another way is to constantly compare specific human behavior with that of other animals.<br /><br />Of course some questions remain about the exact evolution of our species, our degree of adaptability, and the complex way our primitive natures tug against our modern conditioning, but so much is revealed or clarified by this book that you won't have time to notice any omissions. Along with Fraser's Golden Bough this is one of the key texts on which to base a clear understanding of human nature and society.	2001-03-03
US	49300980	R2V6CMBHJJDLR2	0140441328	535098035	The Jugurthine War / The Conspiracy of Catiline (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Enemies of the State	It is suggested by historians that Sallust was a hypocrite. In his writings he always claims to be writing from the highest motives and says such things as:<br />\\"Wealth and Beauty can only give us a fleeting and perishable fame, but intellectual excellence is a glorious and everlasting possession.\\" This stance sits nicely alongside the fact that he was expelled from the Senate for alleged immorality in 50 B.C.! The solution to this problem seems to be that human nature is a complex phenomenon, and that man is capable of both brute carnality and intellectual honesty, depending on the chemical swings of the moment without totally compromising his integrity.<br />Only a part of Sallust's work has survived, most notably his history of the war against Jugurthine, an able North African monarch, and the Conspiracy of Catiline, a debauched but charismatic member of the aristocracy who aimed at a populist coup. This volume is composed of these two histories.<br />The war against the ruthless but talented Jugurthine was more about politics than tactics. Jugurthine took advantage of the growing material greed of senators and tribunes in the late Roman Republic to bribe them to connive at his usurpation of the Numidian Kingdom. This policy was only successful in the short term, however, as the aggravated greed of the Romans led to a war of conquest, plunder, and annexation of his kingdom.<br />Sallust's account is particularly effective at showing the rise of Marius, a common soldier from a plebian family, who succeeded in overcoming prejudice to rise to the top of the Roman State as Consul. Although he later became a bloodthirsty revolutionary, his toughness, honesty, and energy contrast with the corruption and decadence that was already infecting Rome's higher orders.<br />The second part of this history focuses on one of these corrupt aristocrats, the much vilified Catiline, who tried to seize supreme power. Connected to many of the great men of his day, like the young Julius Caesar and the extremely wealthy Crassus, he hatched a plot to cause fires, assassinations, and riots in Rome while his private army conscripted from veterans with bad debts marched on the city. Catiline as a profligate nobleman had vast debts of his own and this was perhaps one of the main motives behind the plot.<br />Ably opposed by the Consul Cicero, the plot fell apart until Catiline's private army was forced to retreat and then annihilated by the Roman legions in North Italy. Although Catiline was depicted by Cicero as a depraved monster who had even sacrificed and eaten human flesh, Sallust seems more objective. He records Caesar's fine speech calling for clemency for some of the conspirators, and he also records the bravery of Catiline's little army, every man of which fell facing the enemy in a stubborn battle. This leaves the reader feeling that Catiline was perhaps more than just a power-crazed thug.<br />Dealing honestly with two of the most unpopular 'villains' from the late Republic, Sallust's history successfully aspires to the writer's own notion of intellectual excellence. It is for this reason that his name is still with us today.lius Caesar and the extremely wealthy Crassus, he hatched a plot to cause fires, assassinations, and riots in Rome while his private army conscripted from veterans with bad debts marched on the city. Catiline as a profligate nobleman had vast debts of his own and this was perhaps one of the main motives behind the plot. <br />Ably opposed by the Consul Cicero, the plot fell apart until Catiline's private army was forced to retreat and then annihilated by the Roman legions in North Italy. Although Catiline was depicted by Cicero as a depraved monster who had even sacrificed and eaten human flesh, Sallust seems more objective. He records Caesar's fine speech calling for clemency for some of the conspirators, and he also records the bravery of Catiline's little army, every man of which fell facing the enemy in a stubborn battle. This leaves the reader feeling that Catiline was perhaps more than just a power-crazed thug. <br />Dealing honestly with two of the most unpopular 'villains' from the late Republic, Sallust's history successfully aspires to the writer's own notion of intellectual excellence. It is for this reason that his name is still with us today.	2001-01-21
US	49300980	RSD1IWAJMBEW3	0674994507	461875081	Diodorus Siculus: Library of History, Volume XI, Books 21-32 (Loeb Classical Library No. 409)	Books	2	6	8	N	N	Broken Columns	Plutarch tends to be moralistic and tangential. Thucydides slows down his narrative with an abundance of detail and set speeches. If you want a good, straightforward &quot;rumpty tumpty&quot; presentation of exciting and dramatic historical events, then Diodorus is your man. He doesn't shy away either from describing violence and brutality when necessary. Plutarch's characterization and Thucydides's clarity are beyond compare, but Diodorus's history can compete because its sweep is so much grander.<br />This volume from the Loeb Classical Library, Greek on one page, English on the other, is a collection of the surviving fragments of Diodorus's epic history of the years 301 BC to 145 BC. This was a fascinating period in which the great Hellenic Empires were eclipsed by the rising power of the Roman Republic. However, instead of good detailed, descriptive history, we get a selection of disjointed passages. Worse still, these passages are by no means the original work of Diodorus, but distorted abridgements and summaries, rewritten to suit the bigoted tastes of Byzantine monks. This said, there is still much of interest here to the well-read reader who already knows a lot about the era. If you are dipping into the history of this period for the first time, this is not the book for you, although I would highly recommend Diodorus's histories of the period before 301 BC.<br />This work features incomplete but still enjoyable accounts of Agathocles, the Syracusan tyrant, the Sicilian campaigns of Pyrrhus, the First Punic War, the Carthaginian Conquest of Spain, the Second Punic War, the defeats of Philip V and Antiochus III, the downfall of Perseus, and the destruction of Carthage.<br />The accounts of the Gaulish eruption into Greece and Asia Minor, and the succession struggles and wars of the Seleucids and Ptolemids are, however, frustratingly patchy.<br />The choice of the material that survived obviously depended on the whims of monkish chroniclers. An incident like the humiliation of the Seleucid King, Antiochus IV, after his conquest of Egypt, by a Roman embassy, was obviously tailor-made for homilies on pride and so it survives pretty intact.  In a similar way, Diodorus's account of some cases of hermaphroditism also appealed to certain monkish sensibilities and is therefore preserved in rather gruesome detail.<br />As Always with Loeb editions, each page is dated in the side margin so that the chronology of events is always clear.nt like the humiliation of the Seleucid King, Antiochus IV, after his conquest of Egypt, by a Roman embassy, was obviously tailor-made for homilies on pride and so it survives pretty intact.  In a similar way, Diodorus's account of some cases of hermaphroditism also appealed to certain monkish sensibilities and is therefore preserved in rather gruesome detail. <br />As Always with Loeb editions, each page is dated in the side margin so that the chronology of events is always clear.	2000-11-29
US	49300980	RCC5E8JLEVQI4	0140443622	583302544	The Rise of the Roman Empire (Penguin Classics)	Books	1	97	126	N	N	Polybius Five Stars - Penguin Zero	History is best not written by historians. Polybius was not a historian in the modern sense of the word. He was actually a member of the Greek ruling class and a diplomat who didn't write history for money but for a love of knowledge - a true philosopher, then, a lover of wisdom.<br />Historians distort, add their own spin on things, try to impress publishers or university administrators, focus on some things rather than others, and basically streamline and funnel the information that the final reader gets.<br />Although this book is not written by a professional historian, it is edited by one. Frank W. Walbank. What we get here as a result are badly-chosen fragments of the original work. The book doesn't even state clearly what it leaves out. There is a sickening predictability about the way all the more obvious episodes are chosen. Most of the book focuses on the well-beaten historical track of the Second Punic War with its accounts of Hannibal and his blasted elephants. Most of the people likely to read this book probably know Hannibal backwards and are ready for something new from the ancient world.<br />If you are only interested in the HIGHLIGHTS OF HISTORY this book will be fine if somewhat disjointed. Personally, I was hoping it would shed more light on the less well-known corners of history, like the squabbles of the petty Greek states, and the dynastic struggles in the Seleucid and Ptolemaic Empires.<br />I can just picture the editorial meeting with the executives from Penguin and the editor: &quot;Don't bother with all that obscure stuff about the Aetolian League - we don't have room for it. But as for Hannibal - now, there's a star - give him all the space he needs and don't forget the elephants.&quot;<br />With a work as important as Polybius, why can't Penguin give us the whole history in as many volumes as they wish and allow the readers to choose which ones to read instead of choosing for us?	2000-11-23
US	49300980	RIE1TBS425NS7	0140443150	161113842	Bel-Ami (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	13	N	N	French Tickler	We can always learn something from the French, and this novel of one journalist's rise in 1880s Paris is full of little 'life lessons' about the way of the World and how to turn things to one's own advantage.<br />Others may see it as a bleak ironic tale depicting the triumph of cynicism and amorality in an ultimately meaningless Universe. Meaning all depends on what peg you hang everything on. If you are looking for confirmation of some universal moral values, you won't find them here, but on the other hand you'll find an entertaining, sometimes disturbing, but always fascinating tale of a talented man with appetites and passions.<br />The conventional wisdom would be to view Georges Duroy as a cad, and with top hat and twirly moustaches, he definitely fits that visual stereotype, but he starts at the bottom and gets to the top merely by playing the rules of the game that is already in progress.<br />He gains success partly through the help of several women, and perhaps the way he treats them looks somewhat callous, but I would venture to defend him on this point. It is true he uses women at every stage of his ascent, but this, after all, can only be done with their consent and all the females who are so used, do this quite willingly, charmed by his good looks and personality.<br />Of course, one's moral view of this character depend on whether you take a male or female view of sexual morality. Men are by nature more promiscuous, whereas women view sensuality in pair bonding terms. Men, while paying lip service to this view because of its important role in rearing the next generation, believe that there should be a little icing on the cake. When Georges apparently 'betrays' the devotion of Madame Walter - who is herself 'betraying' her husband - or Clotilde, his mistress, in favor of other females who equally want to monopolize his affections, he is merely switching from female to male sexuality morality.<br />As he says quite rightly when casting off Madame Walter:  &quot;We fancied each other and that's that. Now it's over.&quot;Walter:  &quot;We fancied each other and that's that. Now it's over.&quot;	2000-11-22
US	49300980	R19SRK26LGU6QI	0862415497	18492904	The House With The Green Shutters (Canongate Classics)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	No Home for Heroes	What is tragedy and how does it work? These are questions you will understand better after reading this book. Set sometime in the second half of the 19th century, the story concerns the fortunes of the Gourlay family in the small Scottish town of Barbie. John Gourlay, a big, domineering, but intellectualy challenged man dominates the local economy and has a monopoly of the carrying trade. He is harsh and powerful, of bull-like stature, and famous for his glower. On a brae overlooking Barbie he has built the House wIth the Green Shutters. This house is both the symbol of his dominance and an object of hatred and envy to the townsfolk.<br />Aristotle defined tragedy as a story depicting the downfall of a great man. At first it is hard to see this stupid, cruel, and grasping merchant as a great man, but The House With the Green Shutters will also improve your notions of what greatness is. John Gourlay is great because there is no fear or compromise in him. Although he may wish to be well thought of by the small-minded, two-faced gossips of the town, he is not prepared to go one inch out of his way for them, scorning even the banal pleasantries of small talk or phatic communication. He wants only their respect not their love, and respect him they do even though they also hate him.<br />With all true tragedy the tragic element comes directly from the greatness. It is his greatness that destroys John Gourlay. His stubborn pride and unflinching courage are qualities more suited to some heroic age of battles and revolutions. They do not fit into the petty, hypocritical world of 19th century Scotland. In this unheroic world his heroic qualities can only work towards his downfall. The thought  constantly in one's mind as you read this novel is, 'If only he were a lesser man . . .' His inability to compromise by lowering himself to the same level as his fellow citizens, works to his disadvantage. Unable to plot, maneuver, and dissemble, his little empire is soon undermined by the arrival in town of Wilson, a glib self-seeking nobody with no real passion, but a much abler businessman in tune with the times. Affable and manipulative, false and corrupt he starts to squeeze Gourlay out of one thing after another. This is ,in effect, the triumph of style over substance that so bedevils our modern age. Although grim, proud and dour, Gourlay is an honest man, inept at chicanery, and unable to bend to suit the occasion.<br />The House With the Green Shutters is a tragedy in the full classical Greek sense of the word; the preordained fall of a hero who doesn't fit into an unheroic world; a great bull sacrificed to appease the Gods for human hubris. It is even more poignant from the fact that its keynote of tragedy was reflected in the life of its young author who had the misfortune to die only one year after writing such a masterpiece.the arrival in town of Wilson, a glib self-seeking nobody with no real passion, but a much abler businessman in tune with the times. Affable and manipulative, false and corrupt he starts to squeeze Gourlay out of one thing after another. This is ,in effect, the triumph of style over substance that so bedevils our modern age. Although grim, proud and dour, Gourlay is an honest man, inept at chicanery, and unable to bend to suit the occasion. <br />The House With the Green Shutters is a tragedy in the full classical Greek sense of the word; the preordained fall of a hero who doesn't fit into an unheroic world; a great bull sacrificed to appease the Gods for human hubris. It is even more poignant from the fact that its keynote of tragedy was reflected in the life of its young author who had the misfortune to die only one year after writing such a masterpiece.	2000-10-11
US	49300980	R1B7QTJMK2MU79	0451627946	580762283	13 Days: A Memoir of the Cuban Missile Crisis	Books	1	11	63	N	N	Propaganda not History	You can't really expect a balanced view from (a) a politician and (b) somebody's brother. This well-written Kennedy-glorifying rhetoric is bound  to distort people's views of the most DANGEROUS and UNNECESSARY crisis of  our history. The fact is President Kennedy by his posturing and bravado was  playing the biggest game of chicken ever, but instead of two old jaloppies  going head to head, it was two nuclear-armed superpowers, and actually the  Russians were driving on the right side of the road! If you consider the  fact that American nuclear missiles and troops were already stationed in  countries like Turkey adjacent to the Soviet Union, the Russians had every  right to place nuclear weapons on the territory of one of their allies to  threaten American cities in the same way that Soviet cities were  threatened. The real reason Kennedy made such a 'principled stand' was  because the stationing of missiles in Cuba would have reminded people of  his earlier Bay of Pigs fiasco. Khruschev despite the way Kennedy presents  him in this book was a calm and cool-headed leader and is to have all the  credit for saving the world from disaster and winning a few concessions as  well. Although, he was subsequently 'removed' from the leadership, this had  more to do with agricultural failures than the so-called  Cuba stepdown. In  fact, there is a real possibly  that it was Kennedy who was subsequently  'removed' because of the dangerousness of his actions. 13 days - unlucky  for some.	2000-08-31
US	49300980	R1D5PY921X71YT	0674994221	897340563	Diodorus Siculus: The Library of History, Volume V, Books 12.41-13 (Loeb Classical Library No. 384)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Other Pelopennesian War	Plutarch tends to be moralistic and tangential. Thucydides slows down his narrative with an abundance of detail and set speeches. If you want a good, straightforward &quot;rumpty tumpty&quot; presentation of exciting and  dramatic historical events, then Diodorus is your man. He doesn't shy away  either from describing violence and brutality when necessary. Although  Plutarch's characterization and Thucydides's clarity are beyond compare,  Diodorus's history can compete because its sweep is so much grander.<br />This volume from the Loeb Classical Library, Greek on one page, English  on the other, covers the period 431 BC to 405 BC. This, of course, is the  period of the Pelopennesian War and so, in a sense, Diodorus's history is  clashing head-to-head with that of Thucydides. In the event it stands up  quite well. Although Thucydides presents a much better account of events in  Greece, Diodorus edges him in his account of the Athenian expedition  against Syracuse. He also finishes the war whereas the history of  Thucydides breaks off in the year 411.<br />The most important event of the  so-called Pelopennesian War happened very far from the Pelopennese. This  was the Athenian attempt to capture Syracuse, which, although well planned  and supported, ended in disaster. After initial victories, the Athenians  just failed to wall off the city, then a run of bad luck saw them reduced  to fighting for their survival until another fleet and army arrived to  reinforce them. This sudden advantage, however, was thrown away in a single  night by a confused attack in the dark on the heights above the city. After  this, still confident in the strength of their 'invincible armada,' the  Athenians saw even this, their last hope, whittled away in a series of  naval battles. When there was still hope of escaping with their remaining  ships, their superstitious commander, Nicias, delayed the attempt because  of an eclipse of the Moon. This allowed the Syracusans to finally trap and  destroy their would-be conquerors.<br />Following these exciting events, the  drama of the book is maintained by Athen's attempt to survive the onslaught  of its enemies. For a while the brilliant political and military talents of  Alcibiades succeed in reviving Athenian power, but following his undeserved  exile, the Athenian fleet is decisively defeated and Athens is  helpless.<br />Diodorus rounds off events in Sicily by describing Carthage's  response to the Syracusan victory - a massive invasion of Western Sicily -  and the advantage taken of these events by the Syracusan general Dionysius,  who used this emergency to seize power and set up his famous dictatorship.<br />As Always with Loeb editions, each page is dated in the side margin so  that the chronology of events is always clear. Also, this volume comes with  two maps showing the area around Syracuse in detail.nd  destroy their would-be conquerors. <br />Following these exciting events, the  drama of the book is maintained by Athen's attempt to survive the onslaught  of its enemies. For a while the brilliant political and military talents of  Alcibiades succeed in reviving Athenian power, but following his undeserved  exile, the Athenian fleet is decisively defeated and Athens is  helpless.<br />Diodorus rounds off events in Sicily by describing Carthage's  response to the Syracusan victory - a massive invasion of Western Sicily -  and the advantage taken of these events by the Syracusan general Dionysius,  who used this emergency to seize power and set up his famous dictatorship.  <br />As Always with Loeb editions, each page is dated in the side margin so  that the chronology of events is always clear. Also, this volume comes with  two maps showing the area around Syracuse in detail.	2000-08-02
US	49300980	R1GWH1ZGO5TYS4	0674991109	796346414	Plutarch Lives, VII, Demosthenes and Cicero. Alexander and Caesar (Loeb Classical Library) (Volume VII)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Action and Words	Is the sword mightier than the pen? It certainly is in the short term going by the lives featured here. Alexander and Caesar were the greatest  conquerors of the ancient world while Cicero and Demosthenes are considered  to have been its greatest wordsmiths.<br />This collection of four lives is  further connected by the fact that the two orators opposed the two  conquerors, raising important moral questions about freedom and democracy.  Demosthenes, a great speaker who was cowardly by nature, saw Alexander and  his father Philip as no better than barborous tyrants, while Cicero, who  also lacked the military virtues, fought a verbal war to preserve the Roman  Republic. Although being spared by their opponents, both Demosthenes and  Cicero were finally hunted and killed by their successors.<br />By today's  standards we would condemn Alexander and Caesar as ruthless, bloodthirsty  tyrants, however, judging these two great men outside their historical  context is grossly unfair. Without Alexander, the Greeks would have  continued to fight their petty wars and Hellenic culture would have  remained confined to a small corner of the Mediterranean. As for Caesar's  usurpation of power, it was vital for Rome's survival to separate  government from politics as the constant electioneering, bribery, partisan  strife, riots, plots, and military coups were causing anarchy at the heart  of the Republic.<br />Writing at a time when a strong Imperial system was  safeguarding Hellenic culture and prosperity throughout the Mediterranean,  it is not surprising that Plutarch saw Alexander and Caesar in such a  positive light.<br />Whatever message he may wish to convey, Plutarch's  writing is full of delights, focusing on character traits, interesting  quotes, great events, and always going off on those wonderful tangents  about natural history, superstitions, or the customs of far away  countries.<br />These are four interesting biographies. But why buy 4 when  there are volumes with 8 or 9, or even ALL the 'Lives' of Plutarch?with 8 or 9, or even ALL the 'Lives' of Plutarch?	2000-08-02
US	49300980	RWH4YCKKQIE5X	0674994647	745681885	Diodorus Siculus: Library of History, Volume VIII, Books 16.66-17 (Loeb Classical Library No. 422)	Books	4	41	42	N	N	The Liberator and the Conqueror	Plutarch tends to be moralistic and tangential. Thucydides slows down his narrative with an abundance of detail and set speeches. If you want a good, straightforward &quot;rumpty tumpty&quot; presentation of exciting and  dramatic historical events, then Diodorus is your man. He doesn't shy away  either from describing violence and brutality when necessary. Although  Plutarch's characterization and Thucydides's clarity are beyond compare,  Diodorus's history can compete because its sweep is so much grander.<br />This volume from the Loeb Classical Library, Greek on one page, English  on the other, covers the period 345 BC to 323 BC. The volume starts with an  account of the career of Timoleon, the great liberator of Sicily. Arriving  in an island terrorized by tyrants and torn by constant warfare, he  succeeded in driving out the tyrants, restoring democracy, uniting the  Greek-speaking population, and defeating a massive Carthaginian invasion  with a scratch army of mercenaries. The invincibility of Greek heavy  infantry is presented here as a simple fact without according it any  special religious or racial significance. This refusal to respond  emotionally to the events he describes, events which involved his own  native island, is both a strength and a weakness of Diodorus. He is more a  trainspotter of historical facts than a propagandist of Greek civilization.<br />The focus of the book soon switches to Greece and the final rise of  Macedonian power leading to Alexander's invasion of Asia. This territory  has perhaps been more ably covered by Arrian and, in parts, by Plutarch,  nevertheless there is much here which other writers have missed, for  example the description of Memnon's campaign in the Troad, an extremely  interesting account of the siege and defense engines employed at Tyre, and  an account of the origins of the Indian practice of suttee.<br />After the  main battles have been won and the great cities of the Persian Empire  conquered, the narrative becomes a little tedious as we plough through  Alexander's endless campaigns against central Asian hill tribes and Indian  towns and villages. When the army finally refuses to go any further, the  reader is in perfect agreement.<br />It was at this point that Alexander  commanded his troops to build a camp with everything in it doubled in size  to give subsequent generations of Indians the impression that the  Macedonians were giants instead of men. Alexander then returned to Babylon  where his death was predicted and soon followed, a suitable end for this  volume which starts with a liberator and ends with a conqueror.<br />In the  side margin of each page there is a date so that the chronology is always  clear, and any omissions by Diodorus are effectively dealt with by  excellent footnotes which cross reference with other historical sources.e becomes a little tedious as we plough through  Alexander's endless campaigns against central Asian hill tribes and Indian  towns and villages. When the army finally refuses to go any further, the  reader is in perfect agreement.<br />It was at this point that Alexander  commanded his troops to build a camp with everything in it doubled in size  to give subsequent generations of Indians the impression that the  Macedonians were giants instead of men. Alexander then returned to Babylon  where his death was predicted and soon followed, a suitable end for this  volume which starts with a liberator and ends with a conqueror.<br />In the  side margin of each page there is a date so that the chronology is always  clear, and any omissions by Diodorus are effectively dealt with by  excellent footnotes which cross reference with other historical sources.	2000-08-02
US	49300980	RJ6SXOTMDOMMJ	0679739041	241063429	Confessions of Felix Krull, Confidence Man: The Early Years	Books	4	4	6	N	N	One Part Flaw Two Parts Masterpiece	This book is like an ocean liner holed beneath the waterline at several points but with effective bulkheads. Although seriously flawed the leakage is contained and the ship stays afloat.<br />Perhaps the problem is the  ship's construction was never completed. Thomas Mann was clacking away at  the typewriter just before his death at the age of 80, and more surprising  than the fact that the novel remained unfinished is the fact that the  narrative voice is that of a smug young man, a charlatan who has decided to  regale us with a glib account of his early career.<br />Because of the  necessarily episodic nature of such a fly-by-night career, the story  resolves itself into a series of loosely-connected episodes.This is  definitely fortunate as some of the episodes are of incomparable brilliance  while others are heavy going. In a story with more unity this would have  the effect of sinking the whole ship, but compartmentalized as they are, we  are able to enjoy Mann's purple passages without too much reference to the  episodes that don't work.<br />The episodes where Felix evades military  service and the whole section where he recounts his Parisian days as  elevator boy, jewel thief, dishwasher, and popular waiter at a top hotel,  were particularly effective, showing Mann's deft touch for entwining  character, psychology, and manners.<br />After these bright spots, most  readers will probably feel the last third of the novel, mainly set in  Lisbon, is wasted. Here we have a lot of cosmic gobbledygook from Professor  Kuckuck and the tedious courtship of the Professor's daughter, Zouzou, who  never advances beyond an abstraction of a surly, spoilt young lady. There  is still the occasional speck of gold to be panned here in these muddy  lower reaches, but the river has by now lost most of its sparkle.	2000-07-30
US	49300980	R1W0OA8WGXJFW5	0140446168	738061198	The Symposium (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Cut Your Teeth On This One	A special mood is induced by reading Plato, the product of an elite society whose ideal was leisurely contemplation. Indeed, it is an activity that seems to clash at every point with our own unreflective society whose  thought currency is minted in soundbites and advertising slogans. People  are not encouraged to be philosophical nowadays, so it is mainly the resort  of the antisocial and the willfully eccentric who are in this way enabled  to look down on the 'crude, vulgar masses.' Who, reading a book of Plato's,  hasn't felt something of this pleasure?<br />If there is one book by Plato  that can be considered to have a more mainstream appeal then it must surely  be &quot;The Symposium.&quot; The subject of love is of interest to us all  and worthy of investigation as behind this word, perhaps the most  overstretched in our language, there are so many possible meanings.<br />With  this book we are able to eavesdrop on an after dinner party conversation by  some truly great minds. As always, Plato is happy to present more than one  view. Of course, the shocking point for the mainstream modern reader is  that most of the discussion concerns homosexual love, nevertheless much of  what is said can also be applied to many heterosexual situations.<br />Among  the participants presented with perhaps some semblance to their original  characters, are the great Athenian comic playwright, Aristophanes, and,  towards the end, the party is enlivened by the arrival of the controversial  Alcibiades, possibly the most brilliant statesman and soldier of his  generation. It is through him and his confession of attempted seduction  that we learn a great many details about Plato's mentor, Socrates.<br />The  translator, Christopher Gill, succeeds in presenting the chain of argument  in a clear, lucid style, further supplemented by a fine, lengthy  introduction and copious notes for those unfamiliar with late fifth century  BC Greece.	2000-07-24
US	49300980	R1CJ5MWS9GBIUD	086241508X	199567438	Scottish Battles: from Mons Graupius to Culloden	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Great Topic But...	This is an interesting topic, but unfortunately this work has a scissors and paste feel to it, as if it were thrown together from miscellaneous sources without any deep understanding of the subject. The structure is very anecdotal and episodic and the chronology jumps around willy-nilly without any good reason. The lack of balance in the work can be demonstated by the fact that the flashy but insignificant military campaigns of Montrose get 34 pages while the vital campaigns conducted by Bruce up to the Battle of Bannockburn are peremptorily dealt with in less than 3 pages. Bannockburn is adequately covered, but the campaigns leading up to this crowning victory were perhaps even more important.<br />Instead of having his own clear ideas of the relevant importance of different periods and events and seeking out his sources accordingly, Sadler's writing seems sadly determined by whatever sources are at hand.<br />Another point about the work is the writing style or lack of it. Unable to make the events interesting or dramatic by a sincere and clear style, the author time and again throws in anachronistic cliches and coinages in an attempt to sound clever and informed. To give a few examples: on page 126, he talks about a group of royalist camp followers being \\"casually butchered\\" as if this was some sort of spaghetti Western. On the same page we have the anachronistic and awkward phrase: \\"Baillie was obeyed to 'work out his notice'\\" as if his superiors were going to 'take away his key to the executive washroom'. This kind of trite phrasing just detracts from the historical tone, a cardinal error as one of the reasons many of us read history is to temporarily escape from the modern world. On the opposite page we have the unfortunate coinage, the \\"reformadoes\\", sounding more like a cheesy snack than reorganized companies of troops. The single worst item of his style however must be the incredibly stupid tautology repeatwd on almost every page where he refers to a \\"commanded body of shot\\" or a \\"commanded body of horse\\" as if it were the exception rather than the rule for groups of soldiers to be commanded.<br />Scottish battles is a fascinating topic. If you are not too fussy about the writing style, even this book can be quite readable in the same way as a magazine on the toilet, however, the more I read it the more the style irritates me. Hopefully, something a lot better written will come along soon.anded body of shot\\" or a \\"commanded body of horse\\" as if it were the exception rather than the rule for groups of soldiers to be commanded. <br />Scottish battles is a fascinating topic. If you are not too fussy about the writing style, even this book can be quite readable in the same way as a magazine on the toilet, however, the more I read it the more the style irritates me. Hopefully, something a lot better written will come along soon.	2000-07-02
US	49300980	RXAIXLNE5DJ71	0674994159	609036446	Diodorus Siculus: Library of History, Volume IX, Books 18-19.65 (Loeb Classical Library No. 377)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	After Alexander	Plutarch tends to be moralistic and tangential. Thucydides slows down his narrative with an abundance of detail and set speeches. If you want a good, straightforward \\"rumpty tumpty\\" presentation of exciting and dramatic historical events, then Diodorus is your man. He doesn't shy away either from describing violence and brutality when necessary. Although Plutarch's characterization and Thucydides's clarity are beyond compare, Diodorus's history can compete because its sweep is so much grander.<br />In this volume from the Loeb Classical Library, Greek on one page, English on the other, Diodorus clearly and effectively tells us about one of the most dramatic periods of World History, the period following the death of Alexander when the vast, newly-conquered empire was fought over and carved up by his generals. Covering the years 323BC to 315BC, he tells us of the initial attempts to keep the empire together when the brilliant non-Macedonian general, Eumenes, showed greater loyalty to Alexander's family than any Macedonian, only to be tragically betrayed by one of the most unique fighting elites in history, the Silver Shields, a phalanx of grizzled veterans aged between 50 and 80 who were invincible in battle. We encounter the popular and fair-minded Ptolemy, founder of the Egyptian dynasty that lasted until the reign of Cleopatra, as well as the ruthless Antigonus, a brilliant general who needed all his luck to overcome the even more gifted Eumenes in a campaign fought on the high plains of Iran. As a mark of Diodorus's fairness, even the most ruthless characters like Cassander, responsible for the deaths of Alexander's mother, wife, and child, are presented with redeeming features, and, indeed, this is hardly the simple tale of good versus evil so beloved by Hollywood.<br />The details of warfare are particularly interesting as this was a time when Elephants from India had become an important offensive weapon that had to be countered. There are also some interesting details about Indian customs and those of other diverse peoples.<br />In the side margin of each page there is a date so that the chronology is always clear, and any omissions by Diodorus are effectively dealt with by excellent footnotes which provide cross-references with other historical sources. In accordance with the particularly grand sweep of the events presented, the maps in this volume include a large foldout map at the back depicting the Conquests of Alexander.ng details about Indian customs and those of other diverse peoples. <br />In the side margin of each page there is a date so that the chronology is always clear, and any omissions by Diodorus are effectively dealt with by excellent footnotes which provide cross-references with other historical sources. In accordance with the particularly grand sweep of the events presented, the maps in this volume include a large foldout map at the back depicting the Conquests of Alexander.	2000-06-23
