US	49318086	RRI8LARWE2VVJ	0449911934	437546793	Rabbit Redux	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A Bit Better	I think Rabbit Redux is a more accomplished book than Rabbit, Run, and a stronger novel. What looked new and experimental in Rabbit, Run (e.g. the present tense narration) seems in this novel more established - less self-conscious and posturing. The cast of characters also comes across as more solid. Rabbit's parents and his son, Nelson, are in particular well-realised - so that one gets a stronger sense here of Rabbit's role within a family than one did in the first novel. (Who, by the way, portrays adolescents as well as Updike?) And Rabbit Redux is also more of a social history than the more literary Rabbit, Run, faithfully reflecting the racial and political climate of 1960s America. I would read Rabbit, Run first, but I would certainly then recommend reading this one.	2000-12-29
US	49318086	R1TPA3U5B95YID	0449911659	437546793	Rabbit, Run	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Earnestness	I came back to Rabbit, Run after failing to finish it three and half years ago. I have to say that at that time I found it too difficult a read - I hadn't gotten 'into' Updike's style and, let's face it, a novel whose first forty pages describe a man taking an aimless car journey out of state for no reason other than existential angst is only so gripping. What brought me back to Updike three years later was discovering his fantastic poetry. After reading this I saw afresh the stylistic virtues of Updike's prose and see them now at full force in this novel. I think you do only read Updike for his style: that balancing act between the observation of the concrete particular and the abstraction from the concrete of Platonic, if provisional, metaphor. This style works away furiously in this book and perhaps there is something unrelaxed about it. It goes full-tilt all the time. It has the grave intensity of Updike's early work and I prefer the more comic atmosphere of his later stuff. But there's no doubt about it - Rabbit, Run is a fantastically well-written book, if you are patient enough to take it on its own terms.	2000-12-11
US	49318086	R2XCY6T19LS7E8	0449005658	400531014	Bech at Bay : A Quasi-Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bech Comes of Age	In this, the third (and final?) installment of books about the imaginary novelist Henry Bech, John Updike has departed from the closely observed 'realistic' social satire of the first two volumes and drawn closer than ever before to a mode of fantasy writing more like Brazil or The Witches of Eastwick. Things happen (Bech kills people, is blackmailed into producing a baby, wins the 1999 Nobel Prize for Literature) that go beyond the normal limits of credulity. I am very glad of it. Normally Updike is religiously (in every sense of the word) faithful to 'reality'; but, as the book's epigraph suggests, 'Something of the unreal is necessary to fecundate the real' (Wallace Stevens). And, in the end, Bech at Bay does not feel any less 'real' than Bech: A Book or Bech is Back. It feels more whimsical, more holidaying, perhaps, but all the plugs are still in their sockets and electricity courses through these pages abundantly. Updike is never funnier than in these Bech books - here, he is also florid, sweeping, capricious, startling and very warm.	2000-12-06
US	49318086	R3HZFGZNVT7Y0Q	0449912124	758871425	S.: A Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Letters Home	Ever since Rabbit, Run, Updike has been attracted to the idea of writing a story that feels as if it is actually happening while it is being read - rather than, as is almost inherent in the form of the novel, communicating an impression of recorded history. By way of attempting to put the idea into practice, Updike has both experimented with present-tense narration (see Leaf Season in Trust Me) and - in S. - given us his take on the venerable (if not antiquated) genre of the epistolary novel. From this point of view the fact that S. is made up solely of letters is an attractive feature of the book: one's sense of anticipation (how will events unfold?) is indeed sharpened. What makes the epistolary form work in this novel is the naturally loquacious and confiding disposition of the protagonist and author of the letters, Sarah Worth (or 'S' as she signs herself to her husband).<br />Sarah has in fact left her husband and gone to join a religious commune in Arizona. Through her dispatches to various friends, family and acquaintances we follow the fortunes of the community and her role within it through to its surprising (?) conclusion.<br />The novel has been criticised for its satirical presentation of Buddhism, yoga, etc. in the context of commune life. I'm not sure Updike would accept the charge. In fact I found quite a lot of fair-mindedness in the book - it actually left me with an improved rather than diminished opinion of what Eastern ideas are actually aspiring to - although I don't think Updike can excuse himself from drawing on certain stereotypes. But this is essentially a light, comic novel - although I don't see why it necessarily had to be - and probably shouldn't be taken too seriously.<br />What I missed most was Updike's typically well-observed dialogue, which in this case is mostly paraphrased in retrospect by the narrator. I had a similar problem with A Month of Sundays, in some ways this book's companion volume. Updike may also have found himself missing this type of writing since half-way through he suspends the strict rules of the epistolary genre and has Sarah include a cassette recording of some tapped conversation in with one of her dispatches. This moment was a welcome relief from her up-till-then uninterrupted monologues, but its breaking the rules of the genre made me wonder about the point of the form in the first place.<br />Overall he's done it very well, of course, as he does almost everything very well, but I doubt he'll revisit the experiment.	2000-11-30
US	49318086	RKEFR51Y3TKG	0679751408	616050290	The Silent Woman: Sylvia Plath and Ted Hughes	Books	2	18	27	N	N	Little fleas have smaller fleas...	...upon their backs to bite 'em. Smaller fleas have smaller fleas and so ad infinitum.<br />The Silent Woman is a book about another book (Bitter Fame) about a writer of books (Sylvia Plath). This review is a piece of writing about a piece of writing about a piece of writing about a writer. How much more convoluted and self-reflexive can we, as writers and readers, become? In my experience, when industries become this complex and rarified the harvest becomes ever more meagre and suspect. The Silent Woman is a mixture of grandly-delivered truths that have always been obvious (we can never 'know' the truth definitively, for example) and crumbs of gossip salvaged from the table at which Hughes and Plath critics have been banqueting now for over thirty years. I can't say I came away from this book knowing anything important I didn't already know about Plath or Hughes and I can't say I came away from it knowing anything I didn't already instinctively know about literature or life's epistemological problems.<br />Strictly for students.	2000-11-30
US	49318086	R3DW6B50JV0G3L	0449912205	411484941	A Month of Sundays: A Novel	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Christian Questions	Updike is not usually this difficult to read. In terms of its prose, this is one of his more spectacular, elusive and confusing books. A lot of the time, this book reminded me more of Anthony Burgess than John Updike. What is distinctively Updikian about it is its engagement with certain problems in the Christian faith. Among the questions the book seems to ask are: Is God detectable or undetectable in the fabric of our lives? Why does God apparently allow suffering (that old chestnut)? Above all: what exactly is the relationship between Christianity and sexuality? Is sex sacred or prophane? The book answers and fails to answer all these questions and more in its complex, uncertain unravelling. I myself did not really feel adequate to its challenge and I did find the language pitched too high for me. But it's a fascinating book all the same.	2000-11-23
US	49318086	R2IY2403VVRMHW	0140140654	993216074	Granta 45: Gazza Agonistes	Books	2	1	4	N	N	Misleading Title	The title of Gazza Agonistes pretends to a pitch of literary ambition that the text itself does nothing at all to bring into fulfilment. There is nothing special about the writing here - not even judged as journalism, much less as what I hoped (especially from an established poet) might be an attempt at contemporary mythopoeia. Having said that, it is very readable. I just got the wrong idea about it from the title. I only read it because of the title. Not that I regret reading it, now that I have read it.	2000-11-06
US	49318086	R3OSH0I2OJ4Q6O	0899194540	935498864	After a Funeral	Books	3	17	17	N	N	Ways of Living, Ways of Surviving	This is the true story of the relationship between a middle-aged English publisher (Athill herself) and a young Egyptian writer. Its narrative concerns the disintegration of the writer's state of mind and, with it, of his relationship with Athill; it ends with the writer's suicide. As has been remarked about Athill's other books, this account is remarkable for its honesty. Athill is an unusually aware and articulate woman in whom the faculties of imaginative sympathy and of dispassionate appraisal are both extraordinarily strong as well as more or less equivalent (these gifts have presumably contributed towards her successful career as a publisher). I read the book as a 'debate' between two ways of existing: on the one hand the egocentric, relentless, consuming passion of the young writer; Athill's moderate, self-restraining but not unemotional rationality on the other. It is an important debate and has made for great writing before (Hamlet versus Horatio?) - partly because it is so complex: both ways of living overlap with each other and also in some way depend upon each other for definition. Each way of living, too, has something the other cannot have (abandoned emotion's intensity; rationality's ability to survive). In its own very modest way, then, this book felt to me like a classic account of life at its most real.	2000-10-19
US	49318086	R3M34R4QI27ZMI	0811210685	949586490	New Selected Poems of Stevie Smith	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An American Classic	This is a good selection of Stevie Smith's poetry - and it is good that Smith should have such a volume in print in the States. Americans - with a tradition ranging from Whitman to the beat poets - should find Smith easier to accept than the English who have always maintained some reserve about this most original of writers. Obviously any Selected Poems is going to omit favourites - this volume really should have included 'The Magic Morning': read it in the Collected Poems - but 'The Galloping Cat' is here as well as 'Away Melancholy' and many other masterpieces. On the other hand, unless one really is a grade A Smith enthusiast, this Selected Poems is more comfortable than the larger Collected Poems. Except in subtle ways her poetic voice does not evolve (what other poet sprang into the world so fully formed? Remember: as Wilde said, 'Only mediocrities develop'): this can make her volumes monotonous and apparently limited. This selection is certainly enough on its own to convince the discerning reader that Smith was a talent of uncompromising genius (what we English like to call 'eccentric').	2000-10-05
US	49318086	R3V4QTHHJ1SEF6	0571152074	592465555	Stevie Smith: A Critical Biography	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Gripping; Informative; Balanced; Sane	I think this is the authoritative biography of Stevie Smith. Its attitude towards its subject is respectful without being uncritical. There is some apology towards the beginning of the book that Smith's life was perhaps too uneventful for the purposes of interesting biography. In fact, the account is gripping. Smith, we read here, socialised with names who have become legend (and many who haven't); had brief affairs both hetero- and homosexual; threw tantrums in public, and made an extravagant suicide-attempt with a pair of scissors in the office where she worked. Spalding gives very reliable impressions of the kind of writing Smith produced - poetry, novels and reviews - so that one's sense of the woman's total achievement (unless one is already unusually familiar with it) is well broadened. This is biography of exactly right the tone. It is descriptive and sanely sympathetic with a minimum of polemic and interpretation. One concludes the book, therefore, able to see Stevie Smith as both a profoundly feeling and insightful human whilst also almost certifiably insane. It is also extremely well-researched: one learns a lot of incidental information (about the educational system in England in the 1920s; the London literary scene in the 1940s and 50s; about the Church of England, and so on). It enlarges one's understanding of Stevie Smith without biasing one towards an interpretation of her.	2000-10-05
US	49318086	R2C545GFPJIMQ8	1856100138	213044260	Cheerleader for a Funeral: Poems	Books	3	1	4	N	N	The Voice of a Survivor	Nina Cassian was born in Romania in 1924, published her first poems there in 1947, fled the Ceausescu regime in 1985 and since then has become well-known in the English-speaking world. For this selection of her poems Cassian worked closely with Brenda Walker on the translations / rewritings in English. This is recognisably modernist work: oblique, fragmentary, not always obvious. As modernist poetry, however, it is relatively accessible. Always latent in these pieces is a quality of humourous self-deprecation that can, at moments, crystallise in poems of amusing simplicity. Cassian gives us the voice of a poet who sometimes does not understand herself or what she is doing ('I am the Monkey Who is Sentenced to Write'), but who equally is sure that she is just a simple woman who does not mean to threaten or intimidate ('My tongue - forked like a snake's / but without deadly intentions: / just a bilingual hissing'). Cassian's world is a place of potential terror and confusion ('Huge agitated creatures / haunt my window') but she uses her poems to keep hold of a dry, humourous spirit that is both resigned and defiantly optimistic; she is particularly good at conjuring up the image of herself as battered and worn but nevertheless unapolagetically sensual ('my cigarette's ash falling on my naked thighs'). Cassian's poetry is very much the language of a survivor (and it always helps to remember the horrific circumstances of her life in Romania and enforced exile). If it has modernism's obscurity and perhaps a certain gaucheness more particular to her, it despite this is convincingly tough, hard-won and often daringly whimsical.	2000-09-29
US	49318086	RY3GTVFTE4103	0394757688	849452523	The Long Goodbye	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Sexy	There can be no disputing Chandler's unique voice as a masterful expression of the 'noir' vision. Philip Marlowe is simultaneously the sceptical investigator of crime and the cynical misanthrope; his stories are therefore both conventional detective stories and yet more profound responses to the imbecility and corruption of mankind. This marriage of popular and high-brow aspirations Chandler performs seamlessly: Marlowe is such a good investigator because he is so cynical; the more corruption he exposes, the more cynical he becomes. This is quite a long novel and in its detailed unravelling the complex plot takes its time. Perhaps, by the end, I missed in Marlowe a broader sense of examination and reflection; after three-hundred pages he can seem vaguely attitudinizing. It made me wonder whether he is not even more effective as the narrator of short-stories or at least of shorter novels. Nevertheless, one does not want to take anything away from the achievement of his particular voice: sour, hard, sexy, resigned, weary, sometimes bitingly comic, and, in its own way, possessed of an insistently rhythmical music.	2000-09-29
US	49318086	R31SACV83V31QY	0571199852	371442031	The World's Wife: Poems	Books	3	33	35	N	N	Rhetorical Questions	As volumes of poetry go, The World's Wife is very tightly-themed: each poem is a monologue in the persona of a woman married (or otherwise  attached) to a more famous man. The men are more usually from myth or fairy  tale (Mrs Sisyphus, Mrs Beast) than from history, although five are  biblical and one or two are from history as recent as the 1960s (I think  The Devil's Wife may be a portrait of Myra Hindley). Duffy's approach to  these monologues is almost absolutely consistent: the women express  contempt, irritation, resentment and sorrow for the foolishness and egotism  of their partners. Mrs Quasimodo desecrates her husband's beloved bells by  fouling them with her own urine; both Penelope and Mrs Lazarus are  discomfited by their husbands' return; Mrs Tiresias seeks solace in  lesbianism. Only occasionally (as with Anne Hathaway) does the wife feel  real love for her husband. The subject-matter, thus paraphrased, looks  gloomy and bitter, but in fact these poems are entertaining and very  likeable. It is quite important to these pieces that they are funny - and  we do laugh because of the constantly-perceived clash between lofty,  remote, sacred men and contemporary-sounding, slangy, immediate women.  Duffy's language is exactly right for her project. Rhythmically it is  strongly pulsing; even more important is the function of rhyme and  half-rhyme (the latter perhaps this poet's single-most impressive talent).  Reinforcing the wilful, aggressive quality of the rhetoric is Duffy's  aptitude for witty puns involving cliches and hackneyed figures of speech  (Eurydice is 'out of this world'). At the same time, however, the language  is kept aerated and three-dimensional by beautiful off-the-cuff metaphors  ('a snapdragon gargling a bee'). I think all this is extremely well-judged  poetry; it is rich and confident and if it lacks subtlety, irony or  mysteriousness, that is in the nature of its unusually rhetorical mission.	2000-09-19
US	49318086	R3MCZ1V1G22149	0449911632	194654736	Brazil: A Novel	Books	4	15	18	N	N	Don't forget: Updike is Really a Poet.	Updike, over his amazingly fruitful career, has made few mistakes. Yet, in choosing to specialise in that most difficult of forms, the novel, he has  inevitably made one or two. One that springs to mind is the problem of  too-heavy plotting. He has got round this before (by mimicking classical  myth in The Centaur; by avoiding plot altogether in the Bech books); but  sometimes he has got it somehow wrong (the awkward-feeling burning down of  the church at the end of Couples). In Brazil, by adopting the style of the  so-called 'magical realists' of South America, he finds a new and  successful solution to the problem of heavy-handed plotting. In this novel  the plot is explicitly and self-consciously heavy: that's okay; that's the  way it's meant to be. He goes with the grain. And so we have a novel about  destiny, about inevitable truths, about inescapable conclusions. It works  terribly well, in my opinion, and once again I think Updike has really  triumphed. To read this rhetorical, confident, sensuous story is to be  reminded that Updike is essentially a poet - most comfortable when he can  dip at will - language always sinuous and confident - into the general  meaning behind particular situations. I am very very glad that Updike wrote  this book. It makes me happy to see the novel restored to its rightful form  as extended prose-poem rather than the anyone-could-write-it,  superjournalistic, mistakenly overdemocratic, boringly autobiographical and  witlessly posturing yawns of so much contemporary fiction.	2000-09-14
US	49318086	R3CM0LJAGEHOM9	0571090249	264755811	Death of a Naturalist	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Poetry as Hard Labour (in a Good Way)	Seamus Heaney's first collection of poems is an accessible and understated  experiment in lyrical description. It was written in 1966 and what first  strikes the contemporary is an adherence to metrical and rhyming (usually  off-rhyming) patterns now considered undesirably strict. Much of the time  Heaney smacks of Larkin - without (for this reader) the touch of Larkin's  charismatic individuality. But one quickly appreciates the earnest  craftsmanship of these poems. Indeed Heaney's characteristic equation of  poetry with 'working', 'labouring', etc. is evident throughout these early  pieces. 'Between my finger and my thumb / The squat pen rests. / I'll dig  with it.': there are many instances here of words being forged or moulded  or indeed excavated to create a construct of sincere meaning. This is what  poetry is all about. Heaney has a strong, unambiguously masculine voice  that can, at times, sound like sixteenth-century verse ('Scaffolding' reads  like a latterday metaphysical poem). Elsewhere - despite a perhaps  enervating lack of humour and whimsicality (although, on consideration, it  is by no means a total lack) - these poems sound confident, clear-sighted  and sensitive in the way that farmers are (gruffly) sensitive.	2000-09-05
US	49318086	R36VPDWRGDR8N4	0449912167	21920687	The Centaur	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More Modernist Than Modest	Here is the work of an early genius. The Centaur (Updike's third novel)  has something of the seriousness of The Poorhouse Fair and Rabbit, Run (his  first and second), although it exceeds the ambitions of both of these. The  aspiration of this book, it seems, is to revisit the experiment made by  Joyce in Ulysses; i.e. to create a palimpsest out of a universal classical  myth (in this case, the story of Chiron the centaur's wounding by an  arrow-head and subsequent death) and a particular, contemporary setting.  Updike pulls this off impressively on every level: from the elevation of  his fundamental subject-matter from the mundane to the sublime, to the  rather more joky and purely academic creation of minor roles (Hephaestus  the blacksmith is now Hummel the car mechanic). The classical allegorising,  however, is not the only symptom of modernism in this novel. Updike also  experiments with disjointed narrative and multiple authorial voices. As  effective as these devices are, it is worth remembering that, having done  them justice, Updike in subsequent stories left them more or less alone. I  for one think he was right to do so. In contrast with the more subtle,  humourous and closely-observed world finally established in 'Couples', this  novel looks self-consciously 'literary' and pyrotechnic. Updike did not  need to compete with the modernists on their own territory; he needed to  establish his own. (He succeeded.)	2000-09-05
US	49318086	R2UFNPRMPAFF2J	0822956705	187945333	Picnic, Lightning (Pitt Poetry Series)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A True Original	The great strength of these poems is that they are potent without being  difficult. One can read a Billy Collins poem without having to reread it in  order to unpick the syntax and decipher the images - each has a winning  lucidity and direct strength. 'Japan' is about the pleasures of reading a  haiku; and I think the best way one can describe all these poems is as  extended haikus. Simple words process slowly across the page with an  alarming impression of original thought and feeling. As in the haiku, there  is a gift for endowing simple scenes or events with an impression of  spiritual momentousness; but Collins is never portentous. His colloquial  tone holds the reader back on the right side of clear-headedness. As with  the haiku, again, there is a total disregard for the (Western) traditions  of metre and rhyme in these poems. It is to Collins' credit that he can get  away with holding the interest through alternative devices (he refers in  one poem to the 'jazz' of his 'timing' - a telling indication of his  departure from 'classical' aesthetic criteria). I confess I found these  poems somewhat monotonous and predictable - also, perhaps, thin? - by the  end of the book. But maybe that is a question of taste. I think this really  is admirable work.	2000-09-05
US	49318086	R1BZHDZVIS117F	0140189459	83204419	Mosby's Memoirs and Other Stories (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Unleavened Bread	Of these six short stories - written between 1951 and 1968 - it is easy to  find things to praise, difficult to find things to criticise. They are, all  of them, dense, substantial, well-crafted, (highly?) intellectual, richly  satisfying. Why should one want to say anything against them? Well:  'satisfying' - more, perhaps, in the manner of a cross-country run than a  raspberry souffle. 'Intellectual': perhaps too intellectual to avoid the  charge of monotonousness. All Bellow's characters are assiduously  introspective and intensely aware. In consequence, Bellow has perfected a  prose style based upon the agglomeration of clauses rather than the  sequencing of fully-formed sentences; a type of stream-of-consciousness.  This can be as tiring as it is effective. More than this, Bellow's  characters are always radically isolated people. They think, think, think  and hardly do any interacting with other people (although they often think  about doing so). One never hesitates to say that Bellow, in these stories,  is telling us the truth about man; one does hesitate to say that he  entertains us with that truth.	2000-08-29
US	49318086	R2M4ZPDL2Y6BJM	0553380656	848425539	The Painted Word	Books	3	14	19	N	N	Come And Get Me!	This short tract of a book sets out a single, streamlined argument: that  twentieth-century art is really a series of art theories (such as Abstract  Expressionism or Pop Art) as illustrated by certain works responsive to  these theories: the theory, crucially, preceded and influenced - rather  than reacted to - artistic experminent.  Wolfe singles out Clement  Greenberg, Harold Rosenberg and Leo Steinberg - critics rather artists  themselves - who in this way exerted the real shaping influence on the  development of art in the last century. How? Simply by determining the  tastes of the purveying 'culturati' and thus the activites of the artists  they patronized. The simplicity of the argument is both its strength and  weakness. Strength because it facilitates a brisk, exclamatory, copious  prose style capable of persuasive-seeming overviews. Weakness because  potential objections and qualifications are skimmed over in silence.  However, this is a popular polemic, not an academic treatise, and in this  capacity it works extremely well: its basic premise is strong enough in  itself not to look shaky and it is delivered with wit, panache and  infectious enthusiasm. Successfully provocative.	2000-08-29
US	49318086	R3H20MEGGCNXRZ	0375409084	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius	Books	3	20	23	N	N	Unusual Inhibitions	On the face it, this would seem to be the perfect Updike project: as a  prequel to Hamlet, it tells the story of Gertrude's marriage to King Hamlet  and subsequent affair with her brother-in-law Claudius (and after that  Claudius' murder of King Hamlet and marriage to Gertrude - the immediate  premise of Shakespeare's play). One would have thought that the essential  story - an adulterous affair - this time with self-conscious literary  pretensions would be an easy challenge for Updike's exceptional gifts. And  in the main Updike acquits himself very well indeed. Most importantly, he  furnishes us with extremely imaginative and credible versions of Hamlet's  mother and step-father, who emerge from this novel more detailed and  sympathetic than they ever do from productions of the play. But that was  always going to be the easy part. Harder for the novelist is the recreation  of medieval Scandinavia - which Updike attempts valiantly and achieves  impressively - and the formulation of a convincing way of speaking for the  characters. This last I would judge to be the major flaw in the novel.  Updike opts for a pseudo-aristocratic idiom that seems more timeless than,  say, the American vernacular of his other novels, but into it leak traces  of other modes: we have Shakespearean words ('porpentine') rubbing  shoulders with American words ('fall' instead of 'autumn') and archaic  phrases ('so strait a gate') mixing with modernisms ('as a starter': these  last in consecutive sentences), all in a syntax that is one moment  reassuringly supple, the next alienatingly stiff. Updike presumably hoped  for a successful fusion of ancient and modern in his casting of such a  language, but the fact remains that I at least found myself having to be  generous-minded to an extent unusual with this writer.<br />Inevitably,  perhaps, the story is always keeping one eye on Shakespeare's play: there  are constant forward references to it in details of its language and in its  (otherwiseunaccountable) allusions to the activities of the young prince.  Naturally, then, one gets the sense that in this novel Updike has set  himself the ultimate challenge: to produce a work that sets out  conspicuously to rival not only Shakespeare but Shakespeare at his most  towering. And there is some sense of challenge here: in particular,  Gertrude's fusion of benign emotionalism and practical common-sense begins  to function as an implicit way of contextualising and therefore  reprimanding the hysterical intellectualism and egocentricity of  Shakespeare's Hamlet. But the challenge remains implicit and - because  confined to prequel form - separated off from Hamlet's protagonism. And so  the novel remains, for Updike at least, an usually subtle and perhaps  undeveloped project. One cannot help missing the sense - abundantly  available in most of his earlier work - of Updike in assured mastery of his  own territory.	2000-08-22
US	49318086	RT6V3GA38MPGB	057500424X	104673408	A World Away: A Memoir of Mervyn Peake	Books	1	7	22	N	N	It's Alright, We Believe You	This book was obviously written more for the benefit of the writer than  the reader. Put together almost immediately after Peake's premature death  from Parkinson's Disease in 1968, it is a fragmented, nostalgic,  sentimental, largely incoherent moan of distress by a weak,  overly-dependent woman unable to see her lost husband as anything other  than a Romantic demi-god or the world as anything other than a violent,  malicious site of evil. I cannot quite see what Gilmore hoped to achieve by  writing this memoir. Peake's talent needs no apology or explanation: even  in his own lifetime the peculiar genius of his Gormenghast books was  well-recognised. Nor does this account make any attempt at being a  factually full biography. All it tells us is how much Gilmore loved her  husband, and how unfairly she felt he was treated by fate and the world. I  think that is of extremely limited interest. It is only Mervyn Peake, after  all.	2000-08-19
US	49318086	R1X3U8ECDZKFK2	0394554353	880381130	Roger's Version	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Theologico-scientific debate, anyone?	There is something not quite human about how much John Updike actually  KNOWS. Roger's Version is a substantial novel about the relationship  between a professor of divinity and an expert in computer science. Updike  does not shy from - rather he wholeheartedly immerses himself in - the  details of these spheres of interest, seesawing between the complexities of  heretical sects in the early Christian Church and the voluminous realms of  astrophysics. One minute we are reading long quotations in medieval Latin;  the next we get - for example - 'Since z = 2.5 constitutes a plane, then by  setting z equal to the transformed coordinates of the model carbon molecule  atoms Dale creates a series of more complex intersections...'. The story is  about the extent to which the two esoteric schools can be made to meet;  basically, can one 'prove' the existence of God through science? In  pursuing the argument Updike, naturally, does more than just thrash through  the intellectual issues; he structures the whole affair with his typical  artistry, so that the idea of, say, the binary opposition informs a raft of  clever leitmotifs - most gorgeously: 'At her attack, the delicious flutter  of ambiguity beat its wings, necessarily two, through all my suddenly  feminized being.' This is a magisterial, monumental book. It's a fine,  heavy book. In the scale of both its intellectual and artistic pretensions  I honestly think one can call it Miltonic.	2000-08-12
US	49318086	R32DK4XLY1L2KA	0449200167	605205289	Too Far to Go: The Maples Stories	Books	4	35	37	N	N	All Together Now	In 1956 John Updike wrote a short story about a young couple, Joan and  Richard Maple, at the beginning of their marriage. Over the next twenty  years he found himself returning to these characters at regular intervals,  writing a total of thirteen more stories in order to track the couple's  progress through parenthood, infidelity and eventual divorce. This volume  gathers the stories together and supplements it with two first-person  meditations in the voice of Richard Maple and with a 'fragment' - an  aborted attempt to write a seventeenth story. Most of the pieces have,  inevitably, been published before - ten of the seventeen in earlier short  story collections. It is nevertheless good to have a complete Maples  volume. In many ways these are Updike's strongest characters, particularly  in the quality of their conversations with one another. The book amounts to  a definitive portrait of what we, as domestic animals, have become:  complex, soul-baring, sophisticated, gamesome, oblique, selfish, loving.	2000-08-06
US	49318086	R6PNNVGXOLLCG	0449004538	567682136	Bech Is Back	Books	4	6	8	N	N	How To Write a Modern Novel	First write a short story (all the time making sure it will be published  in The New Yorker or Playboy); if it works, write another one, using the  same character or characters; when you have written three or four of these,  start thinking about grouping them together in book-form (remember: publish  and republish your work as much as possible); then write a couple of  cementing 'chapters' and offer it to the public as a novel. This is how  John Updike has written (among other things) Bech is Back - his second book  about a Jewish-American literary novelist prone to writer's block. The  advantages of using the compositional method described above are clear:  instead of that heavily programmatic, overdetermined, obsolete thing we  call 'plot', one gets instead a sequence of snapshots, or a gallery of  pictures. We get a book that has obviously evolved organically over time,  pushing out roots into only the most fertile soil. We loose old-fashioned  unity of design, but we do not miss it. This is writing like a cubist: the  by turns judicious and whimsical assembling of fragments of truth, rather  than the facile pursuit of an impossible illusion of coherent 'wholeness'.  Not a word is wasted in this short, smart, clever, muscular punch of a  book.	2000-08-05
US	49318086	RTQN47ABAZO4H	0878465774	614017495	John Updike: Just Looking: Essays on Art	Books	3	30	31	N	N	A Fine Art Critic Too!	Painting is to Updike what music was to Anthony Burgess: not so much a  second love as a parallel infatuation. One always knew it from his prose:  from the references to painters and painterly styles, and from the  conspicuously visual quality of his description. It is good, then, to have  this collection of the writer's thoughts on selected artists and art-works.  He is neither too academic nor too personal in his opinions, and speaks  with authority but without jargon. Of the longer essays, 'Something  Missing' struck me as particularly good - a tentative, penetrating, careful  pondering about what it is in John Singer Sargent's work that misses the  mark of great art. The shorter pieces offer bite-sized reflections on  single paintings or objects: 'Some Rectangles of Blue' discusses an  abstract work by Richard Diebenkorn in such a way that one not only feels  enlightened about the particular work but about abstract painting  generally. As a critic, Updike has a refreshing freedom from academic  orthodoxy - 'We are on the verge here of poster art', he reflects on some  of Renoir - and as a (verbal) artist himself has licence to entertain as  well as instruct with his prose. The book is lavishly illustrated with  uncompromising colour reproductions and, of all his books, the most  pleasant simply to hold in the hands.	2000-08-05
US	49318086	R6TMK2RXCAS3I	0837198232	808262089	Portraits in Miniature: and Other Essays by Lytton Strachey	Books	2	6	9	N	N	The Satirist Sleeps	Rather than upon this somewhat loose and insubstantial collection of biographical sketches, Strachey's fame rests upon his quartet of long essays, Eminent Victorians. One can see why. Strachey was an ironist of  Wildean pretensions, and in this book he writes too frequently of subjects  with whom he is in obvious sympathy - a largely eighteenth-century assembly  of essayists, biographers and letter-writers. Thus, whilst always  appreciative of the eccentric or the absurd, Strachey too frequently floats  off into vapid sentimentality (the dangerous obverse of irony - as Wilde  also knew). As a historian Strachey was a recycler rather than a pioneer of  information - with the result that the value of his books depends wholly  upon their style; and, deprived of its ironic edge, the style comes across  as merely well-groomed. As rarified as the French high culture he  repeatedly dwells on, Strachey's writing here seems either frigid or simply  decorous - with the exception of one paragraph towards the end of the book  in which he is galvanised into a superb digression on the vulgarity of  English Victorianism. To quote it here would be to remove the main reason  for buying this otherwise tame, uninformative, effete and  impeccably-written book.	2000-07-24
US	49318086	R2I2GYM84W16Q8	0060920084	754387444	The Lost Continent: Travels in Small-Town America	Books	3	3	8	N	N	An Antidote to the Serious Travelogue	One could accuse the book's subtitle - Travels in Small Town America - of being misleading: Bryson spends as much time in major cities (Philadelphia, New York) and national parks, or simply driving down the Interstate  listening to radio stations, as he does exploring the smaller settlements  of his homeland. Even when he does get out of the car (or his motel room),  he can hardly be said to 'explore': he speaks briefly with waitresses,  shopkeepers and other tourists but scarcely engages with any deeper stratum  of local life. One of the book's ironies, it could be said, is that Bryson  sticks as religiously to the conventional tourist agenda (museums,  battlefields and other 'places of interest') as the consumerist  day-trippers and backpackers he ritually scorns. But then the book does not  set out to be a serious travelogue. Indeed that is much of its point. It is  an antidote to worthy travel literature - and, by extension, a rebuke to  those who take such things too seriously. America exists for Bryson to make  jokes about, deplore, occasionally appreciate and then make more jokes  about. The Lost Continent reads like a cross between a good piece of travel  journalism and a first-class stand-up comedy routine: it is fast-paced,  relentlessly witty, shallow and eminently readable.	2000-07-20
US	49318086	RHAMKB5GNSKC6	0449912175	120404614	Trust Me: Short Stories	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Trust Updike	What, really, can one say against John Updike? Where, in these stories, can he be faulted? Well, the question need not be so rhetorical. One might, for example, consider the charge that his material is relatively unvarying.  Time and again in his short stories Updike returns to the same territory:  the white, middle-class couple caught up in the flux of an extra-marital  affair. This is the central theme of no less than six of these twenty-two  tales, but it touches the edges of many of the others too. And of these  others all are confined to the same domestic and social milieu - from  'Killing', in which a daughter must cope with her father's death from  Alzheimer's Disease, to 'The City', in which a salesman unexpectedly  contracts appendicitis while on a business trip. Where is the broader  vision - the black characters, the homosexuals, the political radicals?  They are absent from Updike's vision. And yet, if this artist paints on a  restricted canvas, it is the detail and style of the brushstrokes that  redeems his art. 'Trust Me' is as reliable - as trustworthy - a  demonstration as any work in the Updike corpus that the man's linguistic  style is extraordinary. Central to it is an astonishing facility for  metaphor; no less characteristic is his ear for the musical, his faculty  for critical analysis, and a taste for symbolism that is at once  unobtrusive and yet deeply satisfying. With such an abundance of stylistic  gifts all working simultaneously, the unchanging world of Updike's  characters remains fresh and, in 'Trust Me', fresher than ever.	2000-07-13
US	49318086	R10PENJFMIG5S8	0679727221	916996744	The Defense	Books	3	18	21	N	N	A King in Waiting	It is unfair but perhaps inevitable that a writer's minor works should forever labour in the shadows of their more successful siblings. Had The Defense been Nabokov's only novel, I believe Nabokov would have been  greatly respected, if not celebrated, for his achievement. As it is, we  must now see this story as an imperfect expression of the astonishing  vision that only found true realisation in Lolita, Pale Fire and Pnin. In  those works Nabokov perfected the art of seeing man as simultaneously comic  and tragic - sublime and menacing. The Defense, which tells the story of a  Russian Grand Master unable truly to understand anything other than the  game of chess, provides an early inkling of this vision, but does not bring  it wholly to life. Luzhin, our hero, whilst at times effectively comic and  at others compellingly tragic, is too often a remote, incomprehensible  figure - almost a freak - to sustain the reader's ongoing interest. Indeed  there is something cold and controlled about the entire book; it recalls a  classical tragedy in its remorseless, inevitable design. What is lacking is  a sense of the unpredictable and the giddy - to name just two qualities  that Nabokov, in his later American novels, became unrivalled at capturing.  Nowadays, I suppose, only those with a genuine passion for Nabokov will  find the book an ultimately satisfying read.	2000-06-30
US	49318086	RV10NPGDO0D8T	0233964320	349274056	Museums and Women	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Updike Experiments	It is, of course, a crime that any book by John Updike should be out of print. Nevertheless, this selection (first published in 1972) is not the vintage Updike of, say, The Music School or Trust Me. The famous Maples are  here, in all their angst-ridden glory (these stories, it should be said,  have since been reprinted in a volume of their own), and there is the  familiar range of vignettes and meditations in classic Updike mode; but  there is more experimental material too - and few readers will find it  uniformly successful. A Jurassic age dinner party given by dinosaurs?  Actually, I thought this one a gem. But others - such as 'Jesus on Honshu'  - I thought fell somewhat flat: big ideas, perhaps, done inadequate justice  by the short (in some cases, very short) story form. Nevertheless, for  those interested in Updike's development as the maestro of the American  short story, I would have thought Museums and Women an ultimately  indispensable book. Flawed but fascinating.	2000-06-20
