US	49322932	RQ535JKZ3UVAN	0789428970	406638903	Essential Managers: Managing Change	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Practical Techniques	All with practical techniques, Essential Managers series has 'Managing Change' that shows you how to initiate, anticipate and respond positively to change with the change! You can be an efficient and flexible manager to prove your worth with great accessible charts and flow diagrams and gear up for action and provide useful examples. Change is the single most important element of business management today says Rober Heller, the author of this series. With the rising economy level and competitions in the aggressive market, organizations and particularly individuals, have to adopt a positive attitude to bring about a 'Change'. To remain ahead of rivals, set trends and lead change in order to survive. Technical advice is given in this book on how to achieve the best from the staff by using their strengths and involving them at all stages. It has 101 concise tips with vital information and as usually found common in all Essential managers series - a self assessment exercise allows you to evaluate and improve your 'Change Management Skills'.<br /><br />The contents are:<br />1.Understanding Change<br />a)Why Change? b)Understanding the causes of change c)Recognizing Sources of change d)Categorizing types of change<br /><br />2.Planning Change<br />a)Focusing on goals b)Identifying the demand for change c)selecting essential changes d)evaluating complexity d)planning ways to involve people e)choosing a timescale f)making an action plan g)anticipating effects h)anticipating resistance to change i) testing and checking plans<br /><br />3.Implementing Change<br />a)Communicating Change b)Assigning Responsibility c)Developing Commitment d)Changing culture e) Limiting Resistance<br /><br />4. Consolidating Change<br />a) Monitoring progress b)Reviewing Assumptions c)Maintaining Momentum d)Building on Change e)Assessing your Change Management Skills.<br /><br />The leaders do need to Change with the Change but now even an individual need to brush up his skills and minimize negatives.  All change require changes in behavior which in turn flow from and create changes in attitude. Attitudes effect from job experiences, personnel changes, successes and setbacks and I feel, involvement thoroughly to be realistic and avoid complacency as success carries a hidden risk too. It's the need of the hour to be alert and aware. This book is a gem for any Corporate Office or Managers' office bookshelf. Even individuals who dream big to be leaders should possess and gift their bosses. Great Pick.<br /><br />-ilaxin flow from and create changes in attitude. Attitudes effect from job experiences, personnel changes, successes and setbacks and I feel, involvement thoroughly to be realistic and avoid complacency as success carries a hidden risk too. It's the need of the hour to be alert and aware. This book is a gem for any Corporate Office or Managers' office bookshelf. Even individuals who dream big to be leaders should possess and gift their bosses. Great Pick.    -ilaxi	2005-09-15
US	49322932	R2IRLUXSCN41GM	0765614979	853538773	Pakistan's Drift Into Extremism: Allah, then Army, and America's War Terror	Books	4	2	10	N	N	Analyze Yourself	Surprise, Surprise: \\" Lal Krishna Advani, apologises for the destruction of the Babri mosque during a visit to Pakistan; Gohar Ayub Khan, son of Field Marshal Ayub Khan, pinches some of the headlines with the titillating claim that an Indian brigadier sold India's 1965 war plans.Who is this top spy? Mr Khan refuses to reveal the identity but strews the path with teasing hints. The spy is still alive.\\" says MJ AKBAR, Editor, The Asian Age.<br /><br />If you've found Mj's Byline (Surprise,Surprise)Interesting read on the facts of three surprises in the war of 1965, here is a book on Kashmir by MJ Akbar that you will find an interesting read on Kashmir History.<br /><br />But, 'Here is an engaging book on terrorism's largest growing market:Pakistan'This books comes from Hassan Abbas, a Harvard fellow and former officer in President Pervez Musharraf's anti-corruption police force. He is also a PhD. candidate at the Fletcher School of Law and Diplomacy, Tufts University. The book is rated at Amazon and stand Top 100 at Barnes and Nobles. Abbas examines the rise of religious extremism in Pakistan and analyzes its connections to Pakistan Army's policies and the fluctuating US-Pakistan relations. It includes profiles of leading Pakistani Jihadi groups and gives details of the conspiracy behind General Zia-ul-Haq's plane crash in 1988, a botched military coup by fundamentalists in army in 1993-94 and lastly about how General Musharraf handled the volatile situation after the 9/11 attacks.<br /><br />Hassan Abbas exposes failure of 'Operation Gibraltor' and is a pure historical narrative about India and Pakistan. He has analyzed  crisis in terms of capabilities of terrorist groups, impact of Musharraf's bold decisions to reform and policy prescriptions about how a constructive change is possible.<br /><br />For those interested in India-Pak issue and Muslim states and society, the book is an additional read to MJ Akbar's books and bylines and derive to the factual understanding and knowing the History -  the crosscurrents of history sweeping through the larger stage!tanding and knowing the History -  the crosscurrents of history sweeping through the larger stage!	2005-09-11
US	49322932	R2UQR27OGD0FGT	0449214923	649075594	Think and Grow Rich	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Determination to Grow Rich!	Determination is the key to success! How oft we dream to reach our goals and get what we want? It's the determination to Grow Rich - Get what you want and make up your mind till you succeed. The theme of this book is absolutely tempting and convincing to believe and after reading the book, it really boost up ego and motivates to grow in riches and succeed. By riches, do we mean just money? I guess not. Because this book is all about building up your own self esteem and living up to your desires till opportunity strikes your door and welcomes you. Napolean Hill in his book has set an example of the Edison Dictating Machine and Barnes took the opportunity to talk to Edison and  suggested him that he can sell the product when Edison's salesmen were not enthu to sell it. Thus, Barnes became a business associate and proved he can 'Think and grow rich'. Thus, with yet more examples, the book gives an insight to use mind power and use the sixth senses and be persistent and determined until you get what you want. However, sometimes it's growing Rich in many areas and missed out is 'money power' which the author says to believe in self and things you can do. Success is ever personal and whatever you define it, you grow Rich - rich in thoughts, rich in awareness, in accumulating wealth, knowledge, etc. A good book for self betterment and feeling on high spirits. Good pick.	2005-09-09
US	49322932	RC40F2FDMGVR4	0060563427	953626154	Don't Throw Away Tomorrow: Living God&#8217;s Dream for Your Life	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Passing Wisdom	Robert Schuller has ever been my inspirational role model and all his books are greater wisdom. Another author Paul Coelho comes to my mind apart from Harold Kushner,Deepak Chopra, Robin Sharma, Osho,etc whose book collection I cherish the most. However, Robert Schuller's books are great guiding light and stand a class apart in spiritual training. Robert schuller speaks the wisdom of living - Motivating, Inspiring and changing Attitudes for a better Positive living lifestyle. This book of RS reflects the most positive flow of thinking 'Be what you are, what god what you to be'. Rob shares his wisdom and power of positive thinking to be optimistic. With great personal stories and anecdotes, likewise his other books, this one has a fine line down the read that speaks of wise advice 'Don't throw away tomorrow - Live the dreams'. Among his best reads I like are:<br /><br />Tough Times Never Last, Tough People Do!<br /><br />Life is Fair but God is good<br /><br />Tough Minded Faith for Tender Hearts<br /><br />The (Be) Happy Attitudes<br /><br />Success is never Ending, Failure is never final<br /><br />It's going to be me, It's upto me.<br /><br />Though my best choice pick is Tough minded Faith for tender hearts, this one is an exceptional book as it really has the insight to think ahead to future and turn dreams to reality. I've read all his books and they are best in my library. I also make it a point to gift to the people I like and feel I wish to share Rob's wisdom. These books aren't too costly too.All his 'Better Yourself' serious is marvellous collections.	2005-09-09
US	49322932	R1R3L7G5O9K57G	0671795538	936532040	Perfect (The Paradise series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Never ending Romance	Judith Macnaught has been my fav Romance role model and her books are never ending Romantic adventures of joy and sorrow. Perfect is perfect! A great page turner and re-read, always refreshing. Full of romance, murder and suspense. Hollywood movie star and  Director Zachary Benedict's wife is murdered on the set of the film he is directing and he's held to be pushed behind the bars for years. He manages to escape out of security lapses and meets Julie Mathison, a chirpy woman who been a teacher and lived with her ideals. When Zachary escapes the Texas prison, he abducts Julie and force her to drive him to his colorado mountain hideout. Zack is cynical yet passionately romantic and Julie matches up to 'perfect' romance read. She tries to escape zack and it's been a deep emotions pouring with a three day encountering zack. Both came from different worlds, Zack born rich and Julie born in orphanage! There is undying devotion and love when love survives with obstacles. Paradise was great read but this is a finer piece. Judith is a potent writer and her charming spell leaves you grasped in her web of romance for hours and any book on shelf, my heart goes sha la la la...Judith Macnaught is a must read for any person who loves to dream and read romance - especially a great read, any time, anywhere!	2005-09-07
US	49322932	R1YJD7OJSQ6XAD	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	1	10	N	N	Instincts!	Instinctive decision and I placed the book back on the rack when I first picked up at a local bookstore. However, again some hidden instincts made me read the book. The cover page ain't impressive and its a snap judgement, maybe. In a Blink, the decision is instinctive - That's what the Book speaks about. The best selling author of 'Tipping Point', Gladwell reveals psychological facts on behavior patterns of people. Gladwell builds his cases that are supportively influential to a reader and makes him think small and focus on the meaning of \\"thin slices\\" of behavior. He has case studies on car selling, heart attack, etc. which explains his concept of thin slices - upon the information, derive to decisions. However, I feel that often the judgements may wry wrong with the decisions if its only based on information. The sixth sense or intuition plays an important role in thought manipulation. Snap judgements turn people off-track in decision making sometimes but in a blink, first decisions do turn the other way round. Experts in the field have proven decision and are correct in their presumptions. However, Gladwell's case studies is indepth as to pros and cons on accuracy and how one can go about 'Blink' - snap judgements. The book is fine as long as you like to ponder over. The fact remains - your own snap judgements or the intution, the sixth sense always helps you to make decisions! Fine read.	2005-08-25
US	49322932	R3NXDWL9VNXE37	8174764755	820918258	Ayodhya: Demolishing a Dream	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Religion vs Politics	This book is by the Editor-in-chief of the Statesman, Cushrow Russy Irani who recently died of kidney failure at Kolkata on Saturday, 23rd July 2005.Irani spearheaded the growth of the Statesman in the post-Independence era. Known for his defiance during Emergency, he will be remembered as among the few journalists who stood up against the policies of the Prime Minister, Indira Gandhi.<br /><br />In this book, Mr. C.R.Irani, the Author has commented on national and international affairs with rare frankness and objectivity which has often embarrassed the high and mighty and vested interests.This volume is a collection of nearly 80 selected editorials and `Caveats' written since December 6, 1992, when Babri Masjid at Ayodhya was pulled down by Kar Sewaks. The pieces cover more than a decade marked by changing positions of leaders, who remain unfazed by the contradictions in their statements. The collection begins with  C.R.Irani's `Caveat' in the issue of December 7, 1992, a day after the demolition, and after wending its way through the events related to Ayodhya, ends with another `Caveat' in the issue of September 28, 2003,dealing with Murli Manohar Joshi's resignation after the framing of charges against him and six others by a Rae Bareli court in the demolition case.<br /><br />If you are interested in Religion & Politics, here is a book that co-relates the facts that harness the image of a democratic nation.	2005-07-25
US	49322932	R2MMXU27BWEG90	074323538X	992137545	Whale Done!: The Power of Positive Relationships	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mastering Techniques	Ken Blanchard has always remained the 'Best Pick' in my Library shelf. 'Whale Done' has life techniques to master with wise advice from the author of 'One Minute Manager'. Appreciate or rathar call 'Praise everyone' with motivation and inspiration is an essential tip of the book. The skills of a five ton killer whale trainer has effective results at work place and home. The trainers are responsible for the most feared predators in the ocean, to perform amazing acrobatic leaps and dives.They build the trust, show care and warmth and 'Whale Done' - Make the positive, impossible of impossible and catching doing the thing right.The same logic applies to humans surrounding to catch them doing wrong and making them doing the right - to be better parents, better spouses, better managers, whatever. The businessman of the book Wes Kingley discusses with the whale trainers who reveal the secrets who have a whale way out and this is the unique theme using whale techniques setting up discipline and praising with 'Whale Done...Keep it up' or rathar motivate, inspire, encourage and activate - I would say, humans are much easier to get trained than these Whales through the Ken Blanchard techniques. Ignoring never works when catching not doing the right thing but redirection always bring forth the positive results. This rule applies for kids too and as parents, they can guide the kids by not saying 'Don't do' but redirecting with love and warmth. A very easy, quick read book that builds positive relationships. Good Read.<br /><br />-ilaxi	2005-07-21
US	49322932	R1XH64M4IN5UC6	1400053153	492598168	Treachery: How America's Friends and Foes Are Secretly Arming Our Enemies	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Chilling & outrageously exposed	Bill Gertz uncovers Chilling Facts and exposes the alarming truth unbelievable that the Iraqi insurgents are killing the US soldiers with weapons provided by France, Germany and Russia. Bill Gertz seems to have made exclusive interviews with senior US officials including the Defense Secretary revealing astounding information on how the US leaders have failed. Arms trade proliferation and war on terror - Gertz has explosive revelation on how US security lapses enabled their enemies to target Americans using their own weapons secret technology. The enemies had fool proof plans to fail the US intelligence and defense and the extent to which the rivals were able to buy or steal advanced military technology from the U.S is alarming that freeze any American reader. The Pakistan nuclear proliferation is getting extensive and the US is trying to draw India into its global strategic plans by asking New Delhi to join the missile defence system. At this point, one wonders, do India and Pakistan need any more hi-tech, exorbitantly priced weapons for each other? Aren't the nuclear bombs and missiles sufficient? Arms Trade is one revealing info by Bill Gertz in this book. Bill Gertz has also extensively reported the CIA reports on Al Qaeda's track on its enemies and may have nuclear, chemical and biological weapons. The Saddam Hussein's 'oil for food' program has a full story covered by Gertz in the book and how Saddam rebuild Iran's weapons and Missile programs. Although I have not read Bill Gertz other books, this book has been a pick from a local book store and been a thrilling read. Due credits go to amazon reviews and new york times Best seller pick which I do not miss out and Treachery By Bill Gertz explodes facts of America's friends and foes arming the enemies.	2005-05-23
US	49322932	RK9TNTCMTU3UE	0131424106	904205906	Marketing: An Introduction, 7th Edition	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Practical & neat	This book is show-cased in my office library cupboard since years! No wonder it says about early Marketing strategies and the authors Philip Kotler and Gary Armstrong provide a blend of skills uniquely suited to wirting an introductory marketing text. They make the complex world of marketing practical, approachable and enjoyable. Both the award winning authors have from its Part One itself, clarified Understanding Marketing and the Marketing Management Process. Further they focus on analyzing marketing opportunities, marketing research and information systems and environment and then how to go about selecting Target markets. The ongoing chapters include on designing products, brands, packing, services, pricing strategies and so on - in short to promoting in the market with complete know how on recruiting to motivating sales team and grabbing end results. The book has pretty good illustrated pics with courtesy from Hewlett Packard, Proctar and Gamble, Redbook Magazine, Gulfstream Aerospace, General motors, century city hospital and so on. There are very good graphs and Exhibits/ topics with questions for discussions, key terms, references and case studies like Nike, Inc., Tupperware, Proctor and Gamble, etc. The International Market chapter has objectives to:<br /><br />1. Discuss how foreign trade, economic, political legal and cultural environment effect a company's international marketing decisions.<br /><br />2.Describe three approaches to entering foreign markets.<br /><br />3.Explain how companies might adapt their marketing mixes for foreign markets<br /><br />4. Identify three forms of international marketing organization.<br /><br />However, I feel, in present scenario with examples of kodak, macdonald, coca cola, etc. a lot of international marketing depends on many factors. The Glossary is too alphabetically in order and so is the Subject Index - both make it very easy for easy glance read topics that becomes too handy a reference. Good for Office racks and serve as Reference Book too : A casual glance Reading too!nce Book too : A casual glance Reading too!	2005-03-28
US	49322932	R2KHNXYUITYFC5	0141439564	365726027	Great Expectations (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Classic for Classroom	Thirteenth of Dicken's four major novels, Great Expectations has the most dramatic and gripping start that unfolds a story that drives eagerly forward, full of emotion and humor and many unforgettable characters. As a kid, we had this book on our Literature List and every time we had to write down the answers of Literature tales, it was rather strenuous and boring as this meant to be a part of education. However, when it came to conduct a teaching class in literature, Great Expectation turned out to be an adventure. Unlike Oliver Twist and David Copperfield, Pip is not really a hero and also it does not end a Happy ending but Pip is being stripped of his wealth and his position in society. Pip is sent to London to be educated as a gentleman, he is impressed by the wrong people for the wrong reasons. He neglects and abandons the honest, hardworking folk who care for him and his pride is hurt when he learns who his mysterious benefactor is. Pip express guilt for his behavior who have a violent nature and crude ways but altogether he is courageous too. Pip, his father surname being Pirrip and his Christian name Philip, that's how he is called `Pip' , has a fascination for Estella but is brought up by Miss Havisham to wreck revenge on all male sex and break hearts. Herbert Pocket is a character who has frankness was amiable and cheerful who became a friend of Pip. Dicken's novels have a central theme `rags-to-riches' tale of a poor, underprivileged boy who is finally accepted into society. Strangely, this one has a different end. A nice read and great pick for Classroom Literature workshop.	2005-02-17
US	49322932	R1XMOI55HSTV1B	0141439742	365726027	Oliver Twist (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good over Evil	Oliver Twist is the most widely read of all Charles Dickens Reads and this Book has been the second Novel of CD after the Fun and humour of The Pickwick Papers. This book added to reputation of Charles. The story says of a boy's journey from hell to heaven. Many years ago, England was cruel and a hard place for kids, it was believed! Oliver's mother dies and he grows up uncared and unloved. He has to work hard, ill treated by the dreadful Mr. Bumble. When Oliver asks for more food, the story speaks for many children everywhere whose voices society refuses to listen. Neglect and Abuse are exposed in this tale of Oliver Twist.Fagin is one of Dickens' most evil characters. It's the Artful Dodger who befriends Oliver Twist when he reached London and he introduced him to the bullish Fagin. Oliver is plunged into a nightmare in his Den and every time he tried to escape, he is caught and when his friend Nancy tried to help him, she is murdered. Of coz, there are good people too in this story. The end is winning edge `Good over evil'. A nice read and must for all kids collection.	2005-02-12
US	49322932	R2D9V1HR9RQ0Z7	0140434941	976358997	David Copperfield (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Charles Dickens Own Tale	David Copperfield has ever remained a Best Read and it reflects Charles Dicken's own Life. It's a simply great story, romantic but also realistic and believable. It excites all emotions, from rib tickling laughter to tears of pity. Most of the qualities like modesty, frankness, trustworthiness, honesty, goodwill are the ones we admire and his frailties are understandable and endearing.<br /><br />If Charles Dickens was alive, he would be pleased to know that a story which shows, \\"the principle of Good surviving through adverse circumstance\\" has remained so popular. Charles Dickens Books are great Picks especially to gift to kids in February as Charles Dickens Birthday falls on 7th Feb.	2005-02-10
US	49322932	R2EJEABCFPQF0Y	0765805332	458058634	The New Realities	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Revealing Realities - Past, present and future	Peter Drucker reveals 'Realities' and foresee a vision for future with his whiz skills of management. 40 years ago after World war II, Business was a dirty word for intellectuals. Even in US top flight uni graduates turned up their noses at business jobs and tried instead into government job service or uni teaching. Today grandmoms give latest business seller instead of Bible to their grand sons at high school graduation ceremony. The pastor who considers himself as anti business of evangelical church, is as conversant with cash flow analysis as any accountant and runs it off routinely on his personal computer. He even attends management seminars to learn how to maintain `spiritual entrepreneurship' as the chief executive officer of his fast growing congregation. 35 years ago Business was widely viewed as an anachronism to be engulfed everywhere in a rising socialist tide. An indepth study of the Author highlights the facts of past, present and future. In the chapter of Politics, the author reveals the fact that political changes has been drastic in American Politics since the period 1965-1973, as a decade passes to enter `the next century'<br /><br />He thinks that after 300 or more years in which weapons were productive and worked as instruments of policy, they have become counterproductive.He reminds of Mark Hanna's America, where farmers were half the population. The business interest which Mark Hanna mobilized for political power was not General Motors or Citibank, he says. The concept was total different.As regards Education,Peter Drucker feels that there should be serious discussion of the social purpose and responsibility of education in the new reality of the knowledge society. He details few requirements as Education fuels economy and shapes society which is a factor to be remembered. This Book has been a thorough read by me for a review for an MBA student and so,I definitely recommend a great read for anyone who is intrigued to know the 'New Realities' - understanding politics, government, the economy, information technology, and business with the waves of sweeping changes. A brief glance at the contents itself says all:<br /><br />The contents of the Book are as follows:<br /><br />Part I : The Political Realities<br /><br />The Divide<br /><br />No more Salvation by Society<br /><br />The end of FDR's America<br /><br />When the Russian Empire is Gone<br /><br />Now that Arms are Counterproductive<br /><br />Part II : Government and Political Process<br /><br />The limits of Government<br /><br />The new Pluralisms<br /><br />Beware Charisma : The changing demands on Political Leadership<br /><br />Part III : Economy, Ecology and Economics<br /><br />Transnational Economy : Transnational Ecology<br /><br />The Paradoxes of Economic Development<br /><br />Economics at the Crossroads<br /><br />Part IV : The Knowledge Society<br /><br />The Post Business Society<br /><br />The Two countercultures<br /><br />The Information based Organization<br /><br />Management as Social Function and Liberal Art<br /><br />The Shifting Knowledge Base<br /><br />Conclusion : From Analysis to Perception: The World Viewstanding politics, government, the economy, information technology, and business with the waves of sweeping changes. A brief glance at the contents itself says all: <br /> <br />The contents of the Book are as follows: <br />Part I : The Political Realities <br />The Divide <br />No more Salvation by Society <br />The end of FDR's America <br />When the Russian Empire is Gone  <br />Now that Arms are Counterproductive <br /> <br />Part II : Government and Political Process <br />The limits of Government <br />The new Pluralisms <br />Beware Charisma : The changing demands on Political Leadership <br /> <br />Part III : Economy, Ecology and Economics <br />Transnational Economy : Transnational Ecology <br />The Paradoxes of Economic Development <br />Economics at the Crossroads <br /> <br />Part IV : The Knowledge Society <br />The Post Business Society <br />The Two countercultures <br />The Information based Organization <br />Management as Social Function and Liberal Art <br />The Shifting Knowledge Base <br />Conclusion : From Analysis to Perception: The World View <br />	2004-12-31
US	49322932	R37SXNE25URBN5	156025582X	563780356	Hoax: Why Americans are Suckered by White House Lies (Nation Books)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	American Impression "We are Right" - White Lies!	Satirical and barbed, a distinguished read by the New York Observer columnist and author of several books. Hoax stands out to be a controversial pick as the Author hits on the Bush Administration for its diversionary tactics for invading Iraq.<br /><br />He begins his book with a quote from former Egyptian President Gamal Abdel Nasser: \\"The genius of you Americans is that you never make clear-cut stupid moves, only complicated stupid moves.\\" The Author's son is currently in Iraq in the United States Army to whom the book is dedicated. Due to his temper tantrums, the author was fired many times by editors and TV Executives and he even lost the Pulitzer prize. Hoax is the hot stepper in the best selling list of post Iraq War Books. Von Hoffman criticizes the Bush Administration and this may hurt the blind patriotic faith of Americans who believes that its government does little wrong than many others. In the beginning chapter `The Big Lie' Von Hoffman speaks of the super rich and power image of America and reveals how the American people have been gulled into cheering for a gigantic hoax by the Bush administration. \\"It happened because America has manufactured its own reality. A dome has slipped over the country, turning the nation into a unique biosphere, which causes Americans to see, hear, and interpret every event and each happenstance as no other people do. Poisoned by recycled, un-refreshed air, Americans think differently.\\" The Bush Administration invaded Iraq with the terrorism threat hanging on as the world watched over with make belief feel that Saddam is the present `Hitler' and Osama Bin Laden lured in the oblivion. Von Hoffman confirms Saddam as the butcher of Baghdad and was a ruthless dictator responsible for the deaths of hundreds of thousands of Iranians, during the Iran-Iraq war, Kurds, and the random butchering of Iraqis whom he suspected as enemies of the Baath regime. Von Hoffman says that America's mission to curb the Islamic world and bring terrorism to its knees has proven unsuccessful inspite of its so-called victories over Afghanistan and Iraq. The US Government reputation shatters in the eyes of International community and even Tony Blair, the British PM's political future hangs in the balance. Von Hoffman says, \\"US coalition is busy converting Iraq into a \\"free world, \\"Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda still remain at large\\" and this is so very true and raise questions to Bush Administration. American vision gets blurred as citizens get trapped into white lies and belief `We are right, you are wrong'.  A saying goes `you can fool some people some time but you can't fool all people all the time' and perfectly this applies to Bush Administration and the US. Blunt, bold and outspoken, Von Hoffman the Author/journalist is well informed and has presented a Book that sure is a great Pick and if you have been reading M.J.Akbar's Bylines, you will definitely find similar thoughts to many topics covered up in the Hoax.<br /><br />-ilaxierrorism to its knees has proven unsuccessful inspite of its so-called victories over Afghanistan and Iraq. The US Government reputation shatters in the eyes of International community and even Tony Blair, the British PM's political future hangs in the balance. Von Hoffman says, \\"US coalition is busy converting Iraq into a \\"free world, \\"Osama bin Laden and al-Qaeda still remain at large\\" and this is so very true and raise questions to Bush Administration. American vision gets blurred as citizens get trapped into white lies and belief `We are right, you are wrong'.  A saying goes `you can fool some people some time but you can't fool all people all the time' and perfectly this applies to Bush Administration and the US. Blunt, bold and outspoken, Von Hoffman the Author/journalist is well informed and has presented a Book that sure is a great Pick and if you have been reading M.J.Akbar's Bylines, you will definitely find similar thoughts to many topics covered up in the Hoax.  <br /> <br />-ilaxi	2004-12-02
US	49322932	R2347KZ53UVT59	0385336357	721896362	Second Chance	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Spinned Fairy Tale!	Danielle Steel spins fairy tales for her fans and never tiring reads, gripping tales of Romance. Of coz, I feel that no one can beat Barbara Cartland. Danielle steel has vivid descriptions of the characters, nature, wardrobes, etc. Lovely, rich dames feature as her characters with plots revolving around fame, money, showbiz, divorce and so on. I've read many DS in the past and have to repeat read to write reviews but this book, I recently re-read. The author spins a superb fairy tale spun around Fiona who is emotionally high strung since childhood and would not get emotionally attached to any men. Being an editor of a High Fashion Mag, she became a thorough workoholic. In steps into her life, John Anderson, a headstrong widower who is handsome, rich and a conservative businessman. They get madly involved in a relationship but John has his own issues and problems with his grown up teenagers and a guilt of being unfaithful to his dead ex wife. Moreover adds to this is Fiona's crazy lifestyle, bohemein friends, the houseman and the lovely Fiona sometimes seem to be ridiculous, selfish and not considerate. Two different lifestyles of the main characters and finally they quit and Fiona becomes a writer. John steps in again ....and the usual Romantic fairy tale! What I feel is, if you love Romance, read or leave the Book or best, gift it to a friend who collects Romance series. I do collect Barabara cartland so maybe some might have DS, Why not?<br /><br />- ilaxi	2004-11-24
US	49322932	R207ASYLX2CHVZ	0060930438	650693086	Kids, Parents, and Power Struggles: Winning for a Lifetime	Books	4	9	16	N	N	Parental Feedback wins for Life time Relationship	Most of the parents adopt the system of 'Teaching skills' rathar than go through 'Teaching Life Essetial Skills'. Psychologists caution against casting children in specific roles: the quiet one, athletic one, smart one, clumsy one and even a negative type can provide harmful self image that a child may carry throughout his life. It is upto the parent to be an 'emotion coach' and teach the kids to cope up with situations of strengths and weaknesses and build up productive relationships.<br /><br />In the Book 'Kids, Parents, and Power Struggles', Kurcinka offers unique approaches to solving the daily, and often draining, power struggles between the parent and the child. She views these conflicts as rich opportunities to teach the child essential life skills, like how to deal with strong emotions and problem solve strategies. The current problem lies in discipline and parents, not only fail to understand the behaviour patterns of kids but also fail to bring well mannered kids. Reasons maybe many leading to neglected parental duties. Understanding a child's temperament and understand own's style is necessary says the author. It always depends on how one takes the struggles - whether weigh it lighter or exaggerate things with end only getting much worse and the prob trigger to be a 'troubleshooter' and wind up to face challenging 'struggles'. Kurcinka focus on tips for parental approach and teach the child self respect and self control. Authority over the child never works and this is one thing not to miss out if a parent wish for a positive answer to 'How will I want my child to behave when he turns a teenager? Overall, a good parental feedback. It sure is a win for Life time parent-kid relationship.	2004-10-30
US	49322932	R3LQ2WZCKMBP02	0553561677	349438953	Life's Not Fair, but God Is Good: How to Turn Life's Challenges into Personal Triumphs	Books	4	0	3	N	N	Life Isn't Fair but God Really Is? Is He?	Each individual lives with hopes - Who give Hopes? Robert Schuller does! Yeah, Life Isn't Fair always as we face a lot of ups and downs and hopes make one survive. It's a faith strong to build within and to read Robert's Books means keep the faith as he instil hope in the minds that Life may not be fair but keep the faith and sure, God Really sees your problems and help comes at the nick of hour. Being a great fan of Robert Schuller, his inspirations leads to a perspective to think Positive. Obstacles come your way but it is upto me, upto us, to face the challenges by keeping the faith in God. In the Religious text of Gita, it is said in hindi language 'Jo hota hai voh accha hi hoga, jo hoga voh accha hi ho raha hai...apna karm karte jao' Meaning to say, What happens is for good, what will happen will happen good, just do your good deeds. So, I believe, Robert also gives a hope and help you to be happy even in time of difficulties as you read the book coz his words in this book reflect a message to Keep the Faith and believe, trust in God. God really is fair, Is he sometimes??? Only he knows! Good console, good book.	2004-10-29
US	49322932	R3TUSBKDB2UXP9	0060559349	884605705	Are You Afraid of the Dark? : A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Impressive Sidney Sheldon	Sidney Sheldon is undoubtedly an Impressive Author who keeps ahead of time with the latest use of technology for this very Interesting Read 'Are You Afraid of the Dark'. This is Sid's first book written by using the computer as a major aid in research. Sid is amazed and impressed with the capabilities of modern computer technology and with more authors using computers and net power, it makes more interesting read of Books of many authors. The book is taut with suspense and vivid characterization, full of shocking twists. 'Who is trying to kill and why?' Multiple murders makes one dumb and dazed with too many characters in this lost plot Sid Book but that do not matter as long as its a good read. Reported dead or missing, four victims are connected to Kingsley International Group. Kelly Harris and Diane Stevens, young widows of two of the victims,encounter each other in New York, where they have been asked to meet with Tanner Kingsley, the head of KIG. He assures them that he is using all available resources to find out who is behind the mysterious deaths of their husbands. But he may be too late. Someone is intent on murdering both women, and they suffer a harrowing series of near escapes. The two of them is suspicious of each other and the plot bubbles up. Murder, intrigue and Romance, I love to Read Sidney Sheldon books, anyways! Nice Pick for a Read. You won't be disappointed if you are a regular Sidney Sheldon Fan.	2004-10-08
US	49322932	R1KNS0U9VXAIX2	1561703400	668253227	Rising in Love: Opening Your Heart in All Your Relationships	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Awakening with Love	It is said, \\"Love is timeless. It's the memory of yesterday, the happiness of today and the promise of tomorrow.\\" One thing is sure,it brings new dimensions in life that makes everything seem worthwhile.Whatever be it, Love is a reason to live, a language spoken in comfortable silences. It enters gently into your heart unannounced and changes lives forever! So much said, Alan justifies the title that Love is Rising and not Falling. Alan is a soothing writer that calm n cool ur mind with hilarous flow of words. The story of the Butterfly is a force within to face challenges and the ripples widen if you throw a rock into the water and the rising waves - a clear expression of relationship to be maintained with ease and understanding with love. Love is filled with passion, intimacy and commitment and Alan, leads one to journey of life, loving and living divinely creating 'Awareness' - Who we are, Awakening the inner self, Growing in Greatness, Living in Light and Coming Home. When Love is around, Freedom exists and Alan shows light from the dark, loneliness to celebration. Believe in self and the world is yours if there is love. Alan Cohen's Book is sure a great Interesting Read and deep understanding of Relationships. Nice Pick.	2004-10-08
US	49322932	R2JSC6WSZVSTZ0	0399146709	767225287	Communion with God	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Silent Listener	It is said \\"Communication is the key to success\\" but how and when do we communicate with God? Neale Donald Walsch has a way showing his readers how to be communicate with the ultimate super power 'God' and develop a friendly relation, irrelevant of the fact whether you can see him, meet him or not! Neale's dialogue with god fetches him back the answers that he could not visualize and foresee. The secret lies in talking, simple plain questions like:<br /><br />Q. God please be here. We need help.<br /><br />A. I am here<br /><br />Q. We need help<br /><br />A. I know<br /><br />Q. Right Now<br /><br />A. I understand<br /><br />Q. The world is on brink of disaster and I'm not talking about natural disaster but about man made calamity.<br /><br />A. I know. And you're right. You understand the severity of the problem. you simply do not understand the nature of the problem. You do now know what is causing it. So you keep trying to solve it at every level except the level at which it exists.<br /><br />Q. Which is?<br /><br />A.The problem facing the world today is spiritual problem....<br /><br />And the conversations goes on...The message of all the sacred scriptures is the same. What is different is how humans have interpreted them, says Neale. The argument about what Quran says, Bible says, veda says, what Bhagwad Gita says is mind set thoughts of human brains. It is who you believe in that concerns most. I guess the message of Neale Donald Walsch's Conversation with god is all about communion with God, enlightening oneself and doing what is right. It is a step to break free from illusions and bring god in our everyday life to inspire, encourage and build within the courage to face the bare facts of life. A nice read with deep meanings to digest. Good Pick.	2004-09-10
US	49322932	RGVJSCFAHIPIE	0312288247	182408092	India My Love: A Spiritual Journey	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Truly Indian Vision	India My Love is one book that shine out in my Osho collection. The very fact is that I been sometimes gifting this book to people who are fond of Osho Discourses. This book is a gem of Osho Insight and truly Indian vision because no other spiritual leader has so vividly introduced the Real India and the spiritual beliefs. Osho speaks of yogis, fakirs, buddhist monks, jain gurus and all about ancient India. This book is not only about stories of saints and osho transcript of talks but also has great illustrated pics alongwith snippets about mystical India. The Krishna tales and Atista are topics that create a lot of interest to read and the liberation goal of osho is defined as one read through these pages. Osho unfolds cultural and spiritual aspects of the golden past of India. A good & Must Read for an Osho Fan. Great Pick.	2004-08-14
US	49322932	R10ADDQDA2IG9H	1401900127	937171906	Who Will Cry When You Die?	Books	4	12	15	N	N	Power of Perspective	Robin Sharma, the Author says: \\"When you live your truth, your dreams beat a path toward your doorstep\\". A practical solution to create a sound Life and strikingly balance life filling in the gaps with humility. Robin refers to his father's words that a tree that has most fruits is that which bends to the ground. And though there are some exceptions he have found in his own experience that it is true-the people who know the most, who have achieved the most, and have lived the most, are also the people closest to the ground. In a word, they are humble. There is something special about being in the presence of a person who is humble. Robin sharma thinks that practicing humility shows that you respect others and reminds us that there is something for us to learn. It sends a signal to those around you that you are open to receiving the gift of their knowledge and listening to what they have to say. The book is door to exceptional life and live life to the fullest with a purpose and attain peace. The book is indepth wisdom with absolute life changing solutions to cope with life's trials, challenges, frustrations and so on. As Robin Sharma recently visited India in preparation for the production of 'The Monk who sold his Ferrari' as a major motion picture, Robin reminded in his speech that wherever in the world he went, he found human beings struggle with same challenges, same longings. All people are part of one great family with invisible ties. Thus, peace is at your own doorstep and Robin Sharma's books are real 'Gem Picks' - Yeah, sure you can surf his website too and hear his Gem voice too! Good Pick & Great Message.	2004-08-08
US	49322932	RV40LXJEHXG4U	0688123163	854412109	Raving Fans: A Revolutionary Approach To Customer Service	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Customer is the King	A customer is the King. Decide what you want to give to the customer, Find out their needs and expectations, Foresee how you can fulfil their requirements - The main theme of this book perfectly teaches the Customer Approach. Raving Fans of Ken Blanchard love to read all his Books coz of his Innovative ideas and writing skills. I love all Ken's Reads and this one is no exception as it has all inspirational, encouraging, innovative and satisfying techniques to build better Customer Relationships. This book has proven techniques as it covers on 'After-service' facilities too and for a Corporate Insurance Executive & Advisor like me, I feel people sort for not only Service but also 'After sales Service' which builds a strong rapport with the customer and a long term, beneficial relationship, floating in more references therein. I heard a Doctor who had his Sonography Machines worth more than a 50 lacs insured but could not get the claim inspite of paying premiums only because the Company had waved off old machines and the new hubs cost him grand. The customer service is failed by Agent due to Govt. Insurance companies and in such cases, I guess it is worth a deal to strike with new better Insurance companies with affiliations. Hence, Ken's book is all about effective system and playing role as serving with style to create revolution at workplace and fetch in good business. Every Executive should read and follow Ken Blanchard's techniques and remember that Customers are not Satisfied anymore but require 'Service' and that is most important. Experiences leads to perfection with practical tips of Ken. A good pick.	2004-08-02
US	49322932	R3ES42379ENKY3	0312280718	936716192	Autobiography of a Spiritually Incorrect Mystic	Books	4	22	27	N	N	Spiritually Faithful	Osho's teachings continues to expand and reaches millions of people who believe in him and his philosophy. Osho is regarded the most provocative spiritual teachers of the twentieth century. His Autobiography pieced together by his Disciples Sarito Carol Neiman and Ma Yoga Bhakti,provides a delightful glimpse into his life and so does his articles reflect his inner thoughts and outrageous beliefs. His rebellious philosophy,  created waves all over the world. He travelled extensively giving his speeches, debated over religious topics and introduced the techniques of Meditation. There are no full stops in the Osho vision, but a helping hand towards understanding ourselves. In his talks, he reflects the message that human mind is put under the microscope as never before, analyzed to the smallest wrinkle. Mind as psychology, mind as emotion, mind as mind/body; mind as moralist, mind as belief; mind as religion, mind as history, mind as politics and social evolution -- all examined, studied, and integrated. The word `Osho' itself means a `healing sound' and he derived this name out of William James `Oceanic' . He exposed hypocrisy and humbug wherever he saw and this Autobiography is like a thorough journal of the most controversial and dynamic personality `Osho' who is said to have been `Never Born, Never Died' by all his followers. I use to read `Osho Times' and have many books of Osho and Osho Speeches video and Music CDs in my collection and believe in `Take the Best, Leave the Rest' - A good pick `Osho's Autobiography' and a Nice Read too!	2004-08-02
US	49322932	RQ8IT1F19G9S4	0743456955	977351947	Tomorrow's God: Our Greatest Spiritual Challenge	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sacred Scriptures All Same Meaning	In this Book, Neale Walsch says `The message of all the sacred scriptures is the same. What different is how human beings have been interpreting them' Neale perceives human race to be prone to self destruction. He tells to embrace changing own way of thinking to bring about change. This book reflects mysteries of life, changing attitudes and addresses age old taboos. The book is all about changing thoughts about everything from living to ways of living and dealing with self and people. Second half of the book deals with 'chunk the old, Accept the new' - the new revelations of how to create a new person in 'you', overshadowing the inner ego and get ready for spiritual challenge. The world is on a brink of extinction with sins galore and the Author presents an opportunity closer to god, to create a new kind of spirituality to tackle with the worldly disasters like the spiritual, political, economic, relationship changes. Neale Walsch guides as a mentor and human counsellor with 'faith' in whoever is your belief 'God' to build life with renewed hope to attain peace. Converse with God, Be ready to face newer challenges - Good Pick.	2004-08-02
US	49322932	RA01M8L32GGKC	080661711X	914835175	Friendship Factor: How to Get Closer to the People You Care for	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Joys of Friendship	This book makes one a warmer and a more loving, caring and understanding person.Difference of opinions always occur but a friendly encounter makes a better communicative efforts to bond together in unity. Whether it is a son, hubby, family, friend or even aquaintance, this book provides essential tips with anecdotes to resolve tension in relationships. It has a clear message flow that Friendship is the intensity of the love that leaves behind trails of sweet memories to cherish the core of life giving a whole new meaning to it. The enigma of friendship strengthens with the bonds of relationships so unique which is unselfish, intimate, pure and beautiful. Learning to appreciate, speak out on issues, Listening, confide and sharing secrets, meeting of wavelengths and such deeper corners are focused for a caring friendly relationship with the people you love most. The Art of Forgiveness is one chapter which is very thought oriented that helps change Attitude to bring about a difference to be friendly. Friendship hurts as of many reasons but the author 'Allan' reveals the tact and provide clues for enjoying joys of Friendship.	2004-07-31
US	49322932	R1E8JT2BS2HTV4	0471448583	894012061	Change Your Thinking, Change Your Life: How to Unlock Your Full Potential for Success and Achievement	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Incredible & Marvellous!	Brian Tracy's book is Incredible and Marvellous. Being a Brian Tracy fan and recieve his articles in newsletter, I read his book thorough and feel it's not different like 'Positive Thinking' of Norman Vincent Peale. The only things that makes it stand a class apart is that it is packed with lot of wisdom and knowledge. Everybody talks of Changing self but here, Brian gives a mental software program to charge the mind and tap potentials hiding within to turn dreams to reality. A very good self help and motivational book that reaches to core of heart to achieve target goals. A good read for Businessmen and especially the young Executives who want to make a great future. Brian Tracy focus on Self confidence and self discipline and tells to change way of Thinking and change Attitudes. Brian Tracy transforms life and is a great author with a clear vision. A good pick.	2004-07-29
US	49322932	RD8F56XXBW5IW	0060930993	827353507	Children Are from Heaven: Positive Parenting Skills for Raising Cooperative, Confident, and Compassionate Children	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Positive Parenting	The need of the hour is 'Positive Parenting' and this is exactly what John Gray, the author gives a message in this book. Not only the western new age free world is facing parental problems but Indian culture is also on a shift notion to face challenges tackling parental challenges. The five messages and the wise advice of the author makes it very clear to follow by parents to get the parenting skills. Love base parenting accepts kids with their negative emotions, desires and needs, being different but setting reasonable limits and making the kids aware that they are to be respected is the message flow in the book. Children are innocent and born with a difference and needs rewarding and not punishment. They need to co-operate and both parents and kids need to build a close bond to pull out of parental stress, kids stress and the crisis hovering over parental and kids issues. A good pick by a gem author.	2004-07-23
US	49322932	R1L2VJRYRJ1XY7	0739406469	680351504	The Carpenter's Lady (Large Print)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A casual Read!	Barbara Delinsky enthralls her readers with her gripping, emotional and powerful stories of love and lost, commitment and betrayal and  strength for survival that dwells within human heart. All Romance and casual reads, her first pick I ever read was The carpenter?s Lady.I had somehow picked up this Book from my Sports club Library and it became my very first read of Barbara Delinsky. A very casual read but somehow when I read the story in parts, it's been quite a relax read - no hurry, no worry and it ended up returning the book after many days.Debra Barry, a successful television writer leaves New York for the beautiful countryside of New Hampshire especially to find peace and solitude to mend her wounded heart from a shaken painful divorce. Her old house needed as much repair like her broken, shattered dreams and there steps tip-toe in her life, Graham Reid, an enigmatic man who agrees to take up her job, not suspecting that his own life is about to be altered as well. Both build an emotional bond, drawn by desires to build a new life. Rest is a great casual read. Though I prefer more of Barbara Cartland, Judith Macnaught but find her Barbara Delinsky's better read books like New York Times Bestsellers ?A Woman's Place, Shades of Grace,and Together Alone and Rekindled. A time pass pick 'Carpenter's Lady' - choice is yours to read!	2004-07-22
US	49322932	R1F9W3BZLHQ0C4	0312205198	345844600	Creativity: Unleashing the Forces Within (Osho Insights for a New Way of Living)	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Creativity	Osho has ever been a great Spiritual master and nevertheless Osho Books are great insights for a new way of living. In creativity Osho reflects his voice on being creative. Creativity is within everyone?s reach with no exceptions. To unleash the powers of your potentialities, it?s the strategies that need to be mastered and shoot up the Idea Bank storing all the ideas that pop up in mind. New ideas fleet flashing through conciousness. It?s the time to grab the opportunities and swing into action with the idea bank flow. The new age demands challenges and creativity flow.Osho says &quot;Capture the thoughts into the mind frame and get inspired even from the slightest flutter of the bird?s wings or listening to the rustling of the leaves. Challenge is the second step that accelerate the flow of new ideas and giving it a shape. Failures are well springs of creativity or rather, disappointment leads to creativity with born ideas in mind. Challenge is accepting with grace and surging ahead to heights Efforts give it a push and creativity flowers, an extension to what you already know&quot; Osho's Book is a handy guide and I would also recommend his other reads like 'Meditation'& 'Book of Wisdom' - Great Reads of a great Spiritual Master.	2004-07-20
US	49322932	R2ZE9I3WO7GVTQ	1401902014	180710990	Attitude Is Everything for Success	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Attitude Determines Altitude	I refer to this quote in &quot;Attitude is Everything for Success&quot; by Keith Harell.<br />&quot;Achievement starts when you know that your present place in life does not determine how far you will go.It's purpose is to only remind you where you got Started&quot;<br />It's Attitude that Makes a Big Difference. It is the attitude towards failures or successes which determines the future, says the author. A human mind is like a parachute - works best when open, hence being an optimist makes one feel a lighter situation at all times. A positive flow with right attitude towards work and play, time management, excellence, persistence and boosting the potentialities and seek for the creative pursuits. A pessimist always sees the darker side of things.It's Attitude that determines Altitude. The book has great motivational quips and quotations to ponder. The book itself says 'Say It, believe it and Recieve it' which is clear message to pick the book and scale for Achievement with the right Attitude. Each day is an affirmation to encourage and boost self determination and lift up the spirits. A good pick and positive thinking.	2004-07-19
US	49322932	R26A7U8IIOOSVK	0743456947	913401072	The New Revelations: A Conversation with God	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Revelation 'Change Self'	Books of Neale Donald Neale Walsch is based on spirituality and practical applications in every day. I happened to read his interview in a mag and read his first book Conversations with God Book I which was translated in 27 languages. In this Book 'The New Revelations' Neale Walsch reveals that God has given humanity nine new revelations to help change the present beliefs about God and Life. He says 'Do not seek  first to change the world but change 'self' and in doing so, you must first decide some important things about yourself, come to new conclusions within and about who you are, about God and about Life and live on those Decisions.' This inner process changes world around you and because we change, people too change around us and Change itself is an act of freedom. The author focus attention that Group action is required now in the changing global crisis and advises how we can not only avoid despair but also help to repair the world. It is not time to follow individual master but master collective consiousness individually. Then work collectively to awaken the collective called 'Humanity'. The author says that the whole world is now linked and entire planet is connected. The rapid advanced technology is threatening to destroy humanity and also which can save it. Whatever the beliefs but the change in self would undoubtedly change the world around and make one work for a humanitarian cause with the perspectives and good thoughts. A great author Neale Donald Walsch and good thoughts. Nice Pick.	2004-07-12
US	49322932	R1VER7TQMC70LA	0486291138	340492624	1001 Most Useful Spanish Words (Dover Language Guides Spanish)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Beginner's Spanish	Earlier I done Basic French through 'French in Three Months' by Hugo and covered up all excercises in detail. However speech was a flaw and so now being an Enrique fan, clicked to Spanish Learning. The local course was a costly affair and so I sorted Learning Spanish in a simplified language course Book, a truly beginner's guide by Seymour.The Book teaches the basics of Spanish and in a very nice manner, the words sorted out under categories that make self learning easier. Spanish sentences have the English translations like in French Book and this makes easy speaking in sentences. Unfortunately, the pronunciation guide is missing. Grammar is made clear with the Dictionary words. It is like learning little a time but learning thoroughly as a beginner and knowing Spanish basics is just fun. Afterall, an alien language do take time to perfect anyways! A good Beginner's Guide.	2004-07-10
US	49322932	R3J9OEL59TQSRT	0525947604	342331676	Transmission	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Beware Compu Geeks	I missed out the read of Hari Kunzru's debut 'The Impressionist' but managed to catch up the TV Interview of Hari and grabbed the copy of 'Transmission' - a weave into cyberyarn with combination of reality and virtuality. Transmission manages to charm the reader with its lucid wit of words, which is a vivid tale of the twin forces mutating the 21st century world of globalization and information technology. Kunzru, a perfect story teller's 'Transmission' is a story about men and women tossed around by global forces that are beyond their or for that matter, anyone's control or even understanding. The impulse of the new generation is sometimes money, sometimes sex or sometimes epidemic - the story narrates the journey of a computer engineer Arjun Mehta, who has been body-shopped to the US to be a cheap cyber-coolie, lost in an alien culture and finally sacked from software security firm. Quite a real life experience of many computer engineers, indeed. As the characters lead for disaster, salvation and transformation, Hari shows their lives as it is and his empathy is quite obvious. This reveals a deep observant Hari, a former wired correspondent, with lucent writing as he involves the reader with a 384 pages read and up in Top Ten Charts, just with a second release. A must read for day dreaming Indian Computer Geeks who aspires to create wealth in silicon valley, in the most advanced dominant culture. A good 'Free time' read at leisure.<br />* If this is a repeat review, please excuse!	2004-07-07
US	49322932	RF0H9UXGXVSMP	074325001X	639884466	The Leadership Pill: The Missing Ingredient in Motivating People Today	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Pill Technique!	Ken Blanchard &amp; Marc Muchnick shows the Business Managers at any level how to apply the Right Techniques for getting both results and commitment of their people especially when the pressures of performance rise high. The message is clear with the Pill Techniques that Leadership skills come with experience and is not an overnight success (a quick dose of pill formula don't work that heightens the leader's powers!) The book is in parable form of competition of two leaders with different management styles. A supporting, inspiring and motivating Leader can bring out the best with right ingredients of integrity, affirmation and partnership. There aren't quick solutions with pill technique but leadership skills require thoughtful implementations to encourage team spirits for successful results. Day to day workplace situation requires trust and respect and it is well spread a message by the authors to Leaders, as how to gain the team's confidence to derive positive and profitable results. The Book is great read and itself serve as power pill with right ingredients. A nice read &amp; well focused on leadership skills.	2004-07-07
US	49322932	RTJIGBHAFD9A5	0525947604	342331676	Transmission	Books	4	1	3	N	N	'Beware' Indian Compu Geeks!	I missed out the read of Hari Kunzru's debut `The Impressionist' but managed to catch up the TV Interview of Hari and grabbed the copy of `Transmission' - a weave into cyberyarn with combination of reality and virtuality. Transmission manages to charm the reader with its lucid wit of words, which is a vivid tale of the twin forces mutating the 21st century world of globalization and information technology. Kunzru, a perfect story teller's `Transmission' is a story about men and women tossed around by global forces that are beyond their or for that matter, anyone's control or even understanding. The impulse of the new generation is sometimes money, sometimes sex or sometimes epidemic - the story narrates the journey of a computer engineer Arjun Mehta, who has been body-shopped to the US to be a cheap cyber-coolie, lost in an alien culture and finally sacked from software security firm. Quite a real life experience of many computer engineers, indeed. As the characters lead for disaster, salvation and transformation, Hari shows their lives as it is and his empathy is quite obvious. This reveals a deep observant Hari, a former wired correspondent, with lucent writing as he involves the reader with a 384 pages read and up in Top Ten Charts, just with a second release. A must read for day dreaming Indian Computer Geeks who aspires to create wealth in silicon valley, in the most advanced dominant culture. A good 'Free time' read at leisure.	2004-07-07
US	49322932	R15XD8LQK0EMFZ	0688039693	916497967	Leadership and the One Minute Manager: Increasing Effectiveness Through Situational Leadership	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Treat Right!	Always a great fan of Ken Blanchard, I find this book with its Teaching Techniques to the Leaders who need to understand the basic style of 'Treat Right' to its employees and not walk blind to the belief 'Everyone should be treated Equally'. One Minute Manager hit the stands but this book has additional skills to increasing Effectiveness through situational leadership.The authors focus on enhanced motivation to individual employees and apply better management skills to get the most desired results from them. To begin with 'Goal Setting' brings in a commitment for accompliment and make the individual understand their duties to reach target goals. Written in a conversational manner, easy to read and understand, the book makes manager bring out the best by 'Be competitive and commited' motto. Like a stand-by Guide to Leaders, the contents help Leaders to derive best performance. How to delegate, support and direct them is the key factor that nevertheless motivates for better fruitful results. Apart from this book, I also recommend 'First Break All the Rules'. A good Pick for any Leader and to be used as quick reference and must to be on office-bookshelf. Nice Guide.	2004-07-05
US	49322932	R25ABAADJCTWHX	0375414576	786383328	My Life	Books	4	18	29	N	N	Perfect, imperfect!	New York Times in a front page review Sunday, panned Clinton's 957 page book as 'sloppy, self indulgent and often eye crossingly dull'. Newsweek called in 'hardly an edge of you seat experience' and AP said it was badly conceived, flatly written poorly edited book. However, the reviews have absolutely not affected the sales as people are buying this book because they want to know what he says not how he says it. Clinton's book runs from his Arkansas childhood through his Presidency and this appears to justify and make an interesting read. When I grabbed this copy while travelling, the book read became a very interesting read on a vacation. Wonderful pics with Bill's childhood emotions and failures of his life revealed in a vivid manner. His extraordinary spirits and hard work serving the people is seen through the pages as he narrates various incidents of his life. A very determined global leader, I think the Book is a total revealing biography and for International readers, definitely make an interesting read. It is more a sort of Marketing Gimmicks that has clicked 'My Life' to fame as well as critics shoot up their comments negative too. However,As Fans of Bill Clinton read his Autobiography 'My Life' - there releases the Autobiography of the Life of an Indian Prime Minister. 'Manmohanomics: Journey to South Block, Life of an Indian Prime Minister' By Vivek Garg and Ravish Mishra. The book is published by Manas Publication priced at Rs.495/-(256 pages). This also is a good read but maybe people aren't aware of! Well, a good Read 'My Life' for those who really want to dig into Bill Clinton's most unique confidential personal and political career. A truly American Bill Clinton - A great read.	2004-07-05
US	49322932	R11IK0NALWX8NC	0618007016	111923730	The Three Pigs	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Irresistible kid's Pick	I find 'The Three Pigs' - an Irresistible kids Stuff apart from the many stories like Hansel & Gretel, Snow White, Cinderella, etc. The kids love to read the tale 'The wolf huffed & puffed' and blew the house is just a repeat that the kids love to say and find out how the pigs escaped and finally, as a great picture read, the book is a imaginery fantasy. Like many other books of this tale, David Wiesner's book is a grab as it has good illustrations, dialogue balloons and style that draw attention, is a great adventure into fantasy world. A good story that kids love and a good Pick 'The Three Pigs by David Wiesner'	2004-07-05
US	49322932	R48TWMO2PA17G	0062515675	82188916	The Monk Who Sold His Ferrari: A Fable About Fulfilling Your Dreams & Reaching Your Destiny	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Spiritual Find	With clients like Minolta, Oracle, Microsoft, Kraft, Hershey's, Orange, FedEx, Panasonic to name a few, Robin Sharma has entered into the hearts of Indians with his latest speeches in Delhi and Bangalore and # 1 selling Book 'The Monk who sold his Ferrari' has created waves to spell genuine passion for reading esp. among Business class. The book reveals wisdom to know the real inner spiritual self rathar than the one inundated with materialistic possessions. The Himalyan guru's wis' advice on way,  to Julian Mantle, a high-profile attorney in this fable story, preaches to dig spirituality within self and conveys the message to think that what lies behind you or before you is nothing compared to what is withing your own good inner self. There is the sane advice to create a live of passion, live it purposefully and peacefully. Julian's life was out of balance and his spiritual self is nourished with wise advice on joyful living by developing joyful thoughts, follow life's mission to reach goals, develop relationships fruitfully and live to satisfaction with courage and discipline, come what may! The book has most inspirational values and is a captivating story even Ricky Martin and Jon Bon Jovi seems to be a fan of Robin Sharma. A lawyer himself, Robin's book is a gem to touch and change lives to live in spirituality. However, it is never so important like the fable to travel delights through Himalayas for the sage advice. The main concept is to look within and live peacefully with spirituality within and take time out from the drowsy, monotonous life of materialistic world. Make life more meaningful and take a pause - a break (An Osho discourse!) A good Pick for a Read to Digest.	2004-06-11
US	49322932	RHG42U3YVWM0K	0071418210	220362460	Lean Six Sigma for Service : How to Use Lean Speed and Six Sigma Quality to Improve Services and Transactions	Books	4	3	12	N	N	Initiatives for Quality Improvement	A customer is the King ! If there is Quality product, the customer satisfaction ratio level rises up. Customer chooses its high-end needs and service follows. This is the point when this Book comes in too informative to fill in service based approach. With the case studies, the book provides the Executives to go for a solution to satisfy a customer not only with quality but with the service to boost up the sales thereby with cost cutting factors and provide transactions quick and easier with added services and yet not adding the staff. The delivery process can be made much effective with the cost cuts with the clear examples and like other Six Sigma in Business, this one is sure pick for all Manufacturing unit Executives who also believe in Quality Service. Good Read.	2004-06-05
US	49322932	R1N2526RE8YW6X	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Challenging Faith!	The Author Michael Baigent et al has all made the attempts to Challenge Faith of Christianity with the theme of the Book, portraying Jesus as not Crucified but lived to marry and bear children whose bloodline continues! A sheer mystery exploration of the Authors with twists of historical facts. At a time when 'Passion of Christ' of Mel Gibson says all about the last twelve hours suffering of Christ, here comes a controversial read challenging even the traditional accepted facts. Jesus Christ did not die on Cross? The very thought is visionary with the most provocative, researched, convincing theory in the 'Holy Blood, Holy Grail', leaves one baffled even to a non christian. It's like reading a Detective, Thriller - an illusionary tale yet making it an interesting read as one wonders : Is this true? I remember earlier a newspaper revealing a story of Jesus who was born in Bethlehem but stayed in India and also another tale that Lord Krishna and Jesus Christ have similiarities, nevertheless to mention, all religious tales are coinciding another, Is it? Anyways, the Research of Authors can be authentic-who knows! Whatever, the Book is definitely a Good Pick and a good Read - Only one need to think Practical as every coin has two sides. A nice Book.	2004-06-01
US	49322932	R2KHHMZY68ZHEE	0823404706	334572372	Little Red Riding Hood	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A perfect Example	Grimms had a superb storyline but this version of Red Riding Hood by Trina Schart Hyman is a Perfect Example for the kids to follow in their day to day life. Red Riding Hood is a sweet innocent girl who in her childishness, does not obey her mom nor keeps her promise. She lacks in her manners but is a friendly, social girl who loves animals and nature. This version has minimum violence illustration. It sets a perfect example to the child with moral values to be good, obedient, careful, keep to promises and the sort. Good for classrooms or parental teach. A child centered tale, the book offers fun and entertaining with a moral in a renewed way and is a good collection of these series of stories in the library. A good Buy and gift for kids.	2004-05-31
US	49322932	R1NQXNQJJ0C3FV	1576752895	590048200	The Secret: What Great Leaders Know and Do	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Leadership Lessons	This is the story of Debbie, a struggling and a failing leader, who learns the lessons of management from her Boss. Miserable with her poor performance, the character of Ken's Book, joins the Mentor Program offered by her company and incidentally, Jeff, the president of the company happens to be the trainer. She thoroughly undergoes the training sessions where she realise her mistakes. She is taught to be a 'Serving Leader' rathar than a 'self-serving Leader'. She learns the secrets of success with the five steps :<br />* Seeing and shaping the future<br />* Engaging and developing others<br />* Continuously Reinvent<br />* Value results and relationships<br />* Embody the values<br />Debbie learns whatever is needed to be a good leader, analyze her progress with examples, excercises and tips. In process with Debbie's example, Ken Blanchard has made successful attempt to teach the Leadership Lessons to all successful as well as troubled and failed Leaders. The Book provides a guide to solve problems that seem complex and make it easier with the concepts clear - A choice to Serve. Not always I guess, because while Serving too without being self-served, the Leader becomes a struggler if the Company policies and the Boss Attitude and vision is not focused. Sometimes wavelengths do not meet. However, based on the author's experience and drawn from examples of best leaders, this book gives an insight to improve upon one's own abilities and in serving others, tackle the situations with ease without struggling lamely. Ken Blanchard's experience speaks in volumes. A good Pick.	2004-05-31
US	49322932	RBN0YLPRF1M1L	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A gem Pick	A Gem Pick in my collection, this book is a prized treasure. Growing up Gracefully is the theme of the Book with very good illustrated pic of Sea Gulls on the cover page. Captivating attention with this classic read, Richard Bach's fable Seagull named Jonathan Livingstone is an example that teaches about 'Flight' and capture the moments of love and kindness. Jonathan had a deep desire to soar high in the skies and hardly cared for eating like other seagulls. The message was to aim higher for a purpose in life even if its against the wishes of own people. Jonathan is courageous and in pursuit of excelling, he almost has to leave his flock and experience learning with wise seagull who taught him perfect speed. It's the art of perfection one develops keeping the spirits alive as one rise up aiming higher in life. A good read and great message for taking Flights to achievement. Must Read!	2004-05-27
US	49322932	R2N50H50BGJ2TU	1401900143	422598873	Family Wisdom from the Monk Who Sold His Ferrari	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Nurturing Kids	Robin has inspiring ways to Nurture kids in a safe and sound environment. He focus on the individual potentiality of the child and personally care for the close relationship with them. He thinks, Children, in particular, believe that the more time you spend with them reflects how much you love them. He emphasizes on the quality time that you share with your kid and make it more communicative, fun and playful as laughter is the shortest distance between two people. Robin Sharma believes in instilling love and trust in the kids. They should be strong willed and their character should be mould from the start.In form of story of Julian, Robin Sharma has a smooth say to live with simplicity yet fulfil the desires of life in a rightful manner and teach the kids to dream big and achieve big by their creative and constructive ways. He says 'Creativity is all about seeing what everybody else is seeing and thinking what nobody else is thinking'. Robin Sharma as a life coach definitely has whiz mind as he changes many a lives with his books, speech and spirituality. This book is a handy guide to know the potentialities of your kids and though not a parental feedback book, yet a powerful supplement reading in a natural flow making aware of the small things one forgets in dealing with kids in a routine life. A good pick.	2004-05-27
US	49322932	R179B0X422E05M	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Follow Heart's Desire	In the fable told by Paul Coelho, the character Santiago is a shepherd boy who dreams of treasures in Egyptian pyramids and leaves spain to make his dreams turn true. During his adventure, he learns many lessons on way and experiences the truth 'To listen to own heart' It knows all and explores to fulfil dream desires. Santiago meets many people but among them is a Alchemist who has a wise preach to Santiago. When Santiago confides in the Alchemist what he thinks, the Alchemist says that the fear of suffering is more than to actually 'suffer'. The fable is an inspiration to live upto dreams and live life fulfilling desires. If you do not dream you cannot reach for the stars and so does Paul Coelho has sound advice to make the most of inner aspirations and pick the pearls in life. Paul stress on importance of life and listening to our heart. We travel life's path once and hence, our aim should be higher to grasp and reach the goals to fulfil our dreams desire. A very good message and worth a Read - A great pick and must for bedside shelf.	2004-05-27
US	49322932	R23DXEQDJGYKZ7	0060574593	85111587	The On-Time, On-Target Manager: How a "Last-Minute Manager" Conquered Procrastination	Books	4	1	2	N	N	No Procastinating	Procastination is a common problem that humans adopt at a workplace, bringing their effective work ratio to the bottom sometimes. Ken Blanchard has innovative ways and means to sharpen the management skills. Having read 'One Minute Manager', this book is also another master piece of Ken and Steve joining in, has great helpful hints and practical strategies any professional can adopt and act to save getting plagued from 'Procastination' The book in form of a fable makes an interesting read even for a non management buff as it almost digs into doing right things, for right person, at right time theory. Bob becomes the CEO (Chief Effectiveness Officer) in the end after he has passed through negative effects of procastination. The book character Bob always left things to be done later and this late dealing tactics only got poor quality work and stress to him and others too. Commitment is ignored and the confusion surmounts as he could not meet the deadlines, on time.Bob adopts the strategies of his company's CEO who with the three ps makes it possible for Bob, the Last-Minute Manager to be a Constructive and a Productive On Time - On Target Manager who brushes up his Executive skills and scales higher in business. A good book for Management students and all CEO (Chief Executive Officers) and Leaders who want to reach targets on time and improve their management skills for better Productivity at work and be better organized humans in life. A great Pick! Read Anytime, anywhere!	2004-05-25
US	49322932	R20S7P86TEZ40B	0525461523	352475052	Hansel and Gretel	Books	4	4	14	N	N	Moral values	Hansel and Gretel is my fav fairy tales. Almost all stories of Grimm have moral values and this one is no exception. Fairy tales were told as form of entertainment too. They show the kids the right way to behave. However, If pondered over, Hansel and Gretel is one fairy tale with Biblical resemblance. The kids view their parents house as a place of security.The two children are wandering through the woods and are hungry, tired and alone.  This closely resembles the passage where Jesus wandered through the desert for forty days.  He too was tired and hungry and completely alone.  During this time, Satan tried to tempt Jesus with food.  Satan told Him that if He were the Son of God, then He should turn a stone into bread for food (Luke 4:3).  Jesus did not get tempted but here in the story, the children saw the gingerbread house and ate parts of it until they were full. The children continued to eat pieces of it even after they were full, which is gluttony. And Gluttony is one topic in Bible is seen as one of the seven deadly sins, if I am not mistaken. Than the final part, Gretel traps the witch inside her own oven, right before she was getting ready to cook Hansel.  The witch is burnt up.  This resembles the story of Satan.  At the end of Satan's reign over earth, the Christians will be saved from the fire and Satan will be thrown into the fiery pit of Hell, where he will be tortured forever. In end, there is rejoicing; very similiar when the satan (witch) dies,the children reap the rewards and rejoice to 'live happily ever after' Moreover, the tale show abandonment, hunger, fear,friendly sibling example, family unity - issues that startles kids minds to pause and think. It makes the kids dive into imagination and with the very good illustrations and very well re-told classic, this book is a wonderful Pick for all Children - Best of the Best Fairy tale to read and instil moral values in kids.	2004-05-24
US	49322932	R27OUMKB113M7A	0471080721	903360903	The Power of Nice: How to Negotiate So Everyone Wins - Especially You!	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Negotiating to Winning Edge	Everything's Nice about this Book as it teaches to Negotiate leading to be a winner. The Power of Nice works striking, suggestive ways to deal and negotiate the power skills of Negotiating in supportive mutual environment. The books by Ronald Shapiro and Mark has proven methods of Give n Take Dealing in business and offers a helpful guide for negotiations. The three Ps - Preparing, probing and proposing are the three factors detailed by the authors that prepares for the deal, probing i.e. what they want and is required to deliver and proposing is the stage when the deal fixes towards winning edge with the negotiating skills.The Book reveals observations and anecdotes with very good illustrations. John F. Kennedy's quote on &quot;Let us never fear to negotiate. But let us never Negotiate out of fear&quot; in the Negotiating chapter reveals that some people want to eat the whole cake! They fail in negotiations and refrain from being fair enough. They would raise ample questions in self interest like 'Why take a share of profit when I can take it all' Why can't I keep all commissions?' Why offer concessions?' Why negotiate when you can dictate?' and thus, the difficult Negotiater loses a second deal in future. Moreover, the authors teach negotiaters to be more Confident and possess knowledge which is power. When a person helps the other side to get what they want, automatically both the parties reach for a win win situation. The negotiating strategy here in this book gears for Niceness, the attitude to let others get what he wants in a deal and gain while in turn, the negotiater succeeds in dealing with the customer. In sectors like Insurance Business, I think 'Convincing' is also another part which the authors might have considered elaborating. However, A good book and a nice handy Guide for all people who want to reach out to their customers and strike the Deal.	2004-05-21
US	49322932	R2W4A128TA4SIW	1401900593	168285910	The Saint, the Surfer, and the CEO: A Remarkable Story about Living Your Heart's Desires	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Life Changing!	A motivational speaker and a Life Coach, Robin Sharma's Favorite Quote: &quot;To live in hearts we leave behind is not to die.&quot; by Thomas Campbell has ever touched my heart to believe in living the Heart's desire. This book is a peppy read with all Goodness lessons in these times when moral values are waning. Robin's wisdom on life has profound insights and breakthrough ideas for self-leadership and living your best life. The book has a story about one man's quest to discover the answers to life's greatest questions. Robin Sharma reveals joys of living and suggests ways on how to stop betraying your self and live your destiny. Robin has practical wisdom for self feeling of goodness, conquering stress and  balancing life with better fruitful relationships. His theory on self transformation has an impact on living life with adventurous feel and simplicity. He suggest ways of conversations with self. He tells to go deep inside the soul and begin the process of knowing yourself. He says &quot;Self- knowledge is the starting point of personal excellence. Detect your largest values, define how you really wish to conduct your life, and think about what makes you happy. Clarify what standards you feel you need to live your life under in order to be true to yourself, then articulate how you'd occur in the world if you were really thinking, acting and feeling in authentic ways.&quot; The book is a good Life Changing Advice. He says 'Rather than spending all your time trying to do great things, spend more time trying to be a great person. That is the secret to doing great things.' Among his other books-'The Monk who solf his Ferrari' series is a great read and if ever you catch a listening of his speech, Robin's got a cool voice, a fluent spiritual excellency that flows the words with ease to be digested for better living. Grab a Copy of Robin Sharma #1 best selling 'The Saint, the Surfer, and the CEO' - Live the heart's desire! A great Pick.	2004-05-21
US	49322932	R30LPENIDTD425	0752847279	936379991	Why Men Lie and Women Cry: How to Get What You Want Out of Life by Asking	Books	4	13	15	N	N	Positive Preachers	My earlier picks of Allan + Barbara Pease has been a great read and this book is no exception though some of the contents seem repetative. Why Men don't Listen and Women can't Read Maps was a wonderful book and so was Body Language. So, I couldn't resist a pick of this book 'Why men lie and Women cry'! Main reason was the book title that bring a twitchy smile upon the face and second reason was that it's been a great gifting Allan & Barbara Pease's unique Books which delights the reader. The first chapter says on How to Give a Book as a Gift, too.  Third reason for this pick is that the book is a must on the Bookshelf as it gives practical, easy digestible advice for better relationships. The book is so hilarious, answering the common questions that arise in minds about the attitude of men and women in general. Some of the points covered on back flap are:<br />1. Why are men confused about love<br />2. Why do men avoid commitment<br />3. Why do men feel women nagging around<br />4. Why don't women ever get to the point<br />5. Why do men love high heels on women and women love men with small tight bums?<br />Moreover, with simple black and white illustrations and quote quips in-between the pages, makes the book also a 'Quick glance Read' and obviously the quotes are too correct and informative. There are some interesting jokes too at the beginning of some chapters and case study that makes interesting read. The Authors have practical tips in detail for all chapters like:<br />1. Nagging - When someone just won't let up<br />2. Seven things men do that drive women insane<br />3. Why women cry - The dangerous emotional blackmail<br />4. Women's top secret point - scoring system<br />5. Solving the seven biggest mystery about men<br />6. The other woman - mother<br />7. Women's secret ways with words<br />8. Women's sex appeal test<br />9. What made Rogger Rabbit's eyes pop out<br />10.Men's sex appeal test<br />11.Male Sex appeal - what makes women turn on<br />12.Does this outfit make me look big?<br />13.When a hunter hangs up his bow - Retirement<br />The book is revealing as to why men and women have so much trouble. Be sure to read page 9 & 10 How to give this Book as a gift coz this advice of authors is a sure fire way to strengthen relationships. A nice pick always and that's Allan+Barbara Pease series of Books, all topics, all practical and good. A + Choice Pick.?<BR>13.When a hunter hangs up his bow - Retirement<br />The book is revealing as to why men and women have so much trouble. Be sure to read page 9 & 10 How to give this Book as a gift coz this advice of authors is a sure fire way to strengthen relationships. A nice pick always and that's Allan+Barbara Pease series of Books, all topics, all practical and good. A + Choice Pick.	2004-05-17
US	49322932	R39K6VXYOSXRD5	0887309992	512567974	Management Challenges for the 21st Century	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Challenging Read!	An experienced Author's presentation 'Management Challenges for the 21st Century' is a challenging and an inspiring Read. Since years, there has been drastic changes in social and economic levels. Management requires re-shaping the business strategies from time to time. Peter offers new paradigms of management with thoughtful implementations of strategic ideas to face the critical areas, weaker spots, problems, practises and how to face in the 21st century. Slightly for the genius minds, the book demands deep business sense and profound knowledge. Management needs to indepth recognising strengths and analysing on performance, clear goals on how to achieve quality work, motivation and getting quipped with innovation. Peter argues that management will increase the productivity of the knowledge worker and with the global competitiveness, he focus on re-definition of corporate performance. Peter offer lessons with the major chapters like 'Management's New Paradigms, Strategy, The New Certainties, The Change Leader, Information Challenges, Knowledge-Worker Productivity, and Managing Oneself for the new waves. In the chapter 'The Change Leader', he clearly motivates the leaders to be ahead of times by starving the problems and feeding opportunities. The uncertainties can be overcome with change in accepting new and abandoning old patterns of management and make an increase in productivity. The Knowledge worker chapter is to enhance productivity piloting to fresh new innovative ideas. Managing oneself is a thorough learning guide as Peter leaves no room in grooming the new age management leader. An Outstanding Book for Read n Digest especially to all generation next leaders and a Must Read for existing Management CEO's to cope up with the change - Change before the Change!	2004-05-14
US	49322932	R3LF78Y7DYA4HU	048627571X	358637955	Aladdin and Other Favorite Arabian Nights Stories (Dover Children's Thrift Classics)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Classic Tales	Originally Arabic, these classic Tales are Adventurous and Enchanting. All Magic and monsters, Alladdin is my all time favourite and all kids love to listen too. The Magic Lamp is amazing and if we all had it, the Genie would be oh so kind to favour us to fulfil our wish to spread peace on Earth! Alibaba and the Forty Thieves is an adventure tale and the cave spell that in the end,Ali Baba becomes rich! Sinbad the Sailor takes on a voyage to sea and these beautiful stories simply makes you soar your kids imagination and love to explore the dreamy world of wonderful classic tales. A must for a Children's Library and sure pick, any time, anywhere - Only I guess I'd liked the hard bound edition of Classic Adventures of Fabbri Publishing Ltd., spain. For kids, Paper back editions are good and can pass by for reads. Anyways, this is a good Pick!	2004-05-11
US	49322932	RND6SD7L0NENE	0786868716	891971809	The Five People You Meet In Heaven	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sharing Life's Lessons	Upon recommendation at a Bookstore, I got this for a read and find it's about Sharing Life's Lessons. Three stories told about the same person 'Eddie' and in last, rying to save a girl, Eddie meets with an accident and dies. The author follows him to heaven where he meets five people of his life who had been waiting for him in heaven. Each one of them is a stranger yet they have in some way played a role in Eddie's life. The true meaning of life and the mystery of living is identified as they share the secrets, share the life's experiences. Mitch Albom has a great preaching sort of tale as each soul reveal the wisdom ways of living. Why am I here, What is the reason of living and all these puzzling questions meet the answers in Albom's meeting the five men in Heaven! People get lost in cultural obsessions and life drifts away with the mystery unfurled and the author has insightful thoughts on Living and Sharing the Life's lessons. Nice Book n a Nice Read.	2004-05-10
US	49322932	RNT8EF2OML9CP	0385511612	430694437	Bleachers	Books	4	0	0	N	N	No Legal Stuff!	I always been under impression that Bleachers like any John Grisham would be a Legal stuff but to my surprize the book had a say of broken dreams,reunion and emotionally twined tale with regrets. Neely Crenshaw comes back to the town after a long gap when his former Football coach was on death bed. He meets the football members and each has a say on their ups and downs. Past memories reel back to Neely as he meets all players and visits places in the town where he'd been a Hero. The sports spirit revives as all of them consoled another and past mistakes were forgiven. After the death of the Coach, the players depart and go their own life's normal ways. An unlike John Grisham but a pleasant surprize as the Pick is quite Good for a Read, esp if you are a Sports fan.	2004-05-10
US	49322932	R2VWBG003CTH68	0517092913	404758592	The Complete Hans Christian Andersen Fairy Tales	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Wonderful Tales	Grimms-You call the Best but Hans Anderson, You call it a 'Classic of the classics' coz the beautiful stories lets your imagination go surfing on 'cloud nine' and these tales conveys moralistic message. Though the illustrations are in black and white, it doesn't matter as long as the stories are well read. Children learn to explore and imagine by listening and this is a book that every parent would love to read and narrate the stories to their loved ones. The Princess and the Pea is my fav' story and so is the 'Emperor's clothes' - Totally, an amazing fairy tales of Hans Anderson that grips you delightfully reading even as an adult. It would have been much better if more attention was given to make the book more trendy n new mod edition. Hans Anderson is so popular read that one can't resist a pick of any book that has his tales. An enchanting collection by bedside to read out to kid, any time, any day - A nice Pick 'Content is king' I would say!	2004-05-06
US	49322932	RCLHH0F5KJ1FW	0385189508	525920839	Grimms' Tales for Young and Old: The Complete Stories	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dreamy world!	How oft we remember dreaming - day dreams as a child and letting our imagination run wild! The Grimm's Fairy Tales are all *Five* Favourite Stars in my Read and Make Read collection in my Library. Some of my fav stories are:<br />1. Hansel &amp; Gretel<br />2. Red Riding Hood<br />3. Snot White<br />4. Rumpelstiltskin<br />5. Cinderalla<br />6. Sleeping Beauty<br />Many More...you name it and these stories make your dreams sound true! Children love to read and listen. Even write reviews. This book is a famous collection of German Folk Tales by two brothers Jakob and Wilhelm Grimm. The first volume contained 86 tales and the second 70 and the last around 210 tales. The translations are perfect in this book and and took minute care to language details. The Grimms had taken pains to collect the tales mainly from friends and acquaintances who lived in and around a place called kassel in Germany and printed as expression of the spirit of german people. These retold stories with their own versions, the brothers have come out to suit public taste and their ideas about telling tales effectively. The translator Ralph Manheim has taken pains equally in translations!  I recommend a 'Sure Sure Pick' whether one is a kid or a teen or even an Adult. Nothing like these stories will ever take you on a trip to wonderland! My Choice, of coz!	2004-03-27
US	49322932	R2XX2KWY2X7558	0062508113	135418128	The World's Religions: Our Great Wisdom Traditions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Religious Traditions!	This book has been a valuable gift to me long ago that made me inquisite to know about World Religions. It is always said 'Avoid 3 P's - Priest, Politician and Press' if you wish the world to be in peace. Leaving this debate, I feel this book is a great reference to understand the main World Religions. Religion is a faith that is observed by a mass of people in their own special way.In their religious goals, men do not differ from one another, no matter where they live and when. All seek favour and protection against dangers of life. They pray for courage in hour of conflict, comfort in time of grief, guidance in daily concerns. They release pangs of conscience. Six great Religions:Hinduism, Buddhism, Chinese, Islam, Judaism and Christianity. Some have similarities but all six obviously have supplied answers to some of the great questions raised in every human mind by the mystery of life. All of them help men to bear their sorrows. They all tell men how to live, give assurance in the presence of death. Every Religion has noble teachings and lofty moral goals and this book provides very good information on all religions. The author has taken Hindu as first chapter but that doesn't mean he's been partial to christianity or any other religion coz I found the details in this book chapterwise/religionwise, informative with illustrated pictures and religious myths and facts. A good pick and gem collection on shelf.	2004-02-20
US	49322932	R3BFZMEXVEHPY1	0393318486	218150245	How the Mind Works	Books	4	0	6	N	N	Digging Minds!	How the mind works or say better 'Digging Minds' - the author reveals the research on Minds and his survey is all 'Ahs' and 'Oops' coz as we read the book, Steven Pinker is cheering thru the chapters on Human brain. His arguments are quite unique esp. the Love chapter is all a 'ga-ga emotional swings' The powerful emotions override circumstances with ease and a glad heart is resourceful in finding joys! Mind itself is a 'Thought Factory' and it can make a heaven or hell out of it. The author digs into psychology - neuroscience effects and how the senses perform. With indepth views, the book might seem misleading at places but to sum up, the authors leaves room for the'free' flow of thoughts. Signs of anxiety, fear, insecurity is emotional outbursts seen in some people which is totally controlled by the thinking process of the brain. Hearing, speaking, thinking are all mind triggered emotions and even memories relate to Mindful thoughts. The book is a good read on Mind functioning and if one is interested in Psychology reads, this is good Pick!	2004-02-12
US	49322932	R1THZOYWWMNKQF	078945971X	948431489	Essential Managers: Project Management (Essential Managers Series)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Guiding Light!	The Book is a great 'Guiding Light' - I mention this because Project Management is a wide topic. Any good business needs to begin with a plan to blueprint for operating and building company eg. Establishing, Budget, Targetting market, Competition etc. This book provides check lists with diagrams, graphs and examples that focus on SWOT (Strength, weakness, Opportunities and Threat) analysis of business. There's expert advice on team work, communication and developing Leadership and the authors' co-experience brings to limelight the basics of understanding the Project with topics like:<br />1. Defining Project<br />2. Planning Projects<br />3. Implementing Plans<br />4. Monitoring Performance<br />Quickie tips and perfect gem picks, this book from Defining leads to non stop information through monitoring and tracking progress tips, overcoming probs, dealing with change and summarizing assessment on management skills too. Dorling Kindersley's reference books has been a classy pick and gem on book shelf, this book also stands a 'Sure Pick' for lovers of Management field.	2004-02-04
US	49322932	R72YWJ3DSMQG	1578519519	18497000	Beyond the Core: Expand Your Market Without Abandoning Your Roots	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Standing Tall	Standing Tall among Business Books, Chris Zook has indepth research examples of Companies portraying picture of today's business times. Numerous CEO reports, charts and graphs with real practical illustrations are varied. Outside a core business, the expansion is detailed in this book - on how to go ahead framing and practically applying the ways and means so as not to harness the existence levels. The books offers nurturing roots of business, examples on adjacency expansions with pros and cons of success and failure measures. The name itself speaks big 'Expand market without abandoning Roots' and the rule of the game lies in effective management. The author pin points steps to leverage best avenues and the possible adjacent moves so as to reach competitive edge and pooling profit without harnessing the roots of main frame business. In today's time, with diversifications, 'Beyond the Core'- the book serves a Good Reference and as I read on Chris zook's comments, I feel this is a 'Grab Pick' and Must for all Big Company Executives.	2004-01-31
US	49322932	R1N8XWD7LH9H0B	1562941003	923545369	Children'S Space Atlas Trd	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great Exploration!	The Children's Space Atlas takes children on a voyage of Discovery from the creation of the stars and planets to the latest findings from probes and Satellites, states Robbin Kerrod on the top cover of this black bg book. Easy to follow star charts showing major constellation, story of the creation of the stars and planets told in words and pictures and exploring the whole universe is so much fun and interesting while kids learn the mystery of nature. The IMAX movies on space are sure thrilling to watch but the book is indepth knowledge and exploring page to page! It's divided into 5 sections:<br />Section 1: Introduction on Earth and space and boundless universe<br />Section 2: The solar system - The sun, moon, planets, Asteroids and meteoroids, comets, etc<br />Section 3: The night sky i.e. the heavens, constellations<br />Section 4: Stars and Galaxies<br />Section 5: Exploring space, Telescopes, space satellites, space flights, exploring moon and so on.<br />Now that its so interesting, I remember me registering mine and my family's name to go to Mars through the nasa website and the names would be included in a DVD that went to Mars with Rover Opportunity - Its so thrilling to explore the Space Atlas by many kids with hopes to book a flat on Mars some day! A good Pick and dreamy explorations too!	2004-01-27
US	49322932	R2V73YPVA1EI72	0789432447	400434728	DK Essential Managers: Communicate Clearly	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Key to Success	Communication is the key to success! Universal truth yet this book gives lessons to better communicating using methods for sure results. Various methods combined together works. The five groups mentioned in this book are:<br />1. written word<br />2. spoken word<br />3. Symbolic gestures<br />4. Visual Images<br />5. Multimedia<br />Interesting is a comment here that Americans like communicating via rallies and slogans with strong use of visuals. (Pg.8) Learning to listen techniques are vital and using Listening skills is well explained in the book with Empathizing, analyzing and synthesizing. Reading, Taking Notes,using phone, writing letters &amp; proposals, using technology, chairing meetings, reaching audience, communicating to sell, etc. are the major parts covered up which makes the book, a thorough handy guide for Key to Success. Sometimes, it is getting ready to Negotiate to win, mastering the techniques and be prepared for 'Talks' - This is exactly we do 'Talk' but when it comes to negotiating and passing the word/message through, we fail most of the time due to lack of many supported things. This book ultimately helps to overcome our weaker traits while communication spells disaster if right techniques aren't mastered properly. A good Pick.	2004-01-10
US	49322932	R2F8RUZTVNG5DP	0789428962	742591210	Essential Managers: Motivating People	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Motivation - Providing Best Techniques to People	It has ever been my observation that where there is no motivation, the staff tends to fall prey to being lazy-bugs, dumb and losing their charm and interest in their jobs! People who adopt TQM (Total Quality Management) which is about constantly improving every process and product by progressive methods motivate with the Change and quip for empowerment at workplace. If there isn't Motivation, however well you want TQM, it fails as psychologically needs is not fulfilled. Self esteem is hurt too. Recently, during my Insurance Group meet, the young boys supported the training with motivational tips that promoted Discussions, provided information and feedback but missed out on encouraging initiatives. Effectively appraising, listening to opinions, discussing weaknesses are all best explained in this book. Raising Interest levels and developing skills is one yet two different things altogether. The book has techniques to widen perspectives too and getting the most from Training sessions. An Exceptional Book, I recommend for all Team Managers who need to 'Motivate' freshers and tune them up for Achievement. A good Pick and Great Gift to offer.	2004-01-10
US	49322932	RWOF96JZ3ROOH	1570713383	307169771	Unstoppable: 45 Powerful Stories of Perseverance and Triumph from People Just Like You	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Motivational High Fi	Amazing Motivational stories - Cynthia's Unstoppable changes the course of life. Cynthia Kersey writes that a prominent psychologist asked 3,000 people, &quot;What have you to live for?&quot; An amazing 94% answered by saying they had no purpose for their lives. Now when there isn't any central purpose, one easily can fall prey to fear, worries, trouble and self pity! Dark shadows hover over our lives. Her stories are inspiring, true and reminds of Pastor Bayless Conley's speech on Zee. The book is unstoppable reading and too motivational that makes one explore potentials within to go along life's way in a very practical manner without a stop. A good pick.	2004-01-06
US	49322932	R6XI89AYLTXNR	0789424460	157724890	DK Essential Managers: Manage Your Time	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Get Accomplished Managing Time	How often we hear guys shrugging off casually: 'ugh, time is short, we're busy' I think, we all have 24 hours in a day, 7 days a week, yielding 168 hours per week. Take away the sleep hours and hours engaged in fetching results we desire! Hence, its wise to work `smarter' than work `harder' and this requires efficient `Time Management' Walt Whitman, the poet, said it best, &quot;The most powerful time is when we are alone, thinking about what we are to do.&quot; Daily Planning helps us to focus on what is really crucial and important in our day to come and permits us to identify time to use wasted hours more productively. This has been my experience but when I read this book of Tim, it sure is more to Accomplish 'Managing Time' with his neat tips under various categories like :<br />1. Understanding Time - Changing Attitude<br />2. Analyzing use of time - Keeping Time logs,<br />3. Assessing ability - A quick Quiz<br />4. Planning for success - Analyzing goals, work, prioritizing<br />5. Using Time Planners<br />6. Getting Organized<br />7. Phone Calls - Managing calls<br />8. Reading &amp; writing - Dos n Dont's<br />9. Technology skills<br />10.Meetings &amp; Travel tips<br />This and more, the Book is thorough self training and changing Attitude. I have all time in the world to read, write, web design, promote, market, handle admin work, attend meetings, run kids class, meet friends, go partying,listen n play music, cook and what not - all coz of Time planning and planning time with 7 days a week. This book has cool tips of dos n don'ts, analyzing quiz, charts and very good presentation and once you shrugg off the wry look to wring for an extra half hour, think of the wonders a human brain can do - a cool book for every student, business guy, tech buffs and especially those bubbly MBAs who seem to lack time! A great Pick - Get Self Trained, Get More Accomplished with your Time.	2003-12-10
US	49322932	R1I80OP4ULWN9L	0789424479	373321533	Essential Managers: Managing Meetings (DK Essential Managers)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Dealing Tactics	Always so fond of 'Weekly Kids &amp; Parental Meets', what I ever thought after attending meetings in person or groups elsewhere is, that most of the chairpersons and leaders lag somewhere when it came to 'Effective Managing Meetings' for Constructive results. I make a point to gift this book of Tim Hindle to the chiefs with a purpose to enhance their potentialities with better Managing Committees or groups. Most of the places, a meeting begins with a 'Cause', meet, dine and be merry to end up with time running short. This Book is a 'Perfect Gift' as it has detailed power tips to hand real life situations and develop first-class meeting skills to improve efficiency and decisiveness. Right from Defining Meetings whether Formal or Informal, knowing aims, selecting attendees, preparing agenda, site,passing the message, handling problems, checking those pitfalls and lot more reflects how to deal with situations. The book has small tabled 'Things to do' and analysis, charts too handy. I recommend this book for every newbie and existing top persons whether in Business or conducting Groups, Ladies wings, etc. A must read.	2003-12-08
US	49322932	R331TGOV6OTS0G	0596004478	622052089	Google Hacks: 100 Industrial-Strength Tips & Tools	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Google Hacks - Sure Reveals!	A chance glance read,'Google Hacks' at a local Bookstore, this one's not the cup of tea for a casual surfer. If one is an HTML expert and excel in scripting language, here's a pick and a cool read. It helps trying new ways to innovate, charges a hacker for productive and constructive use of web enhanced applications. I have a Google Developer Key for 'sambhaav' but never really knew how to use it and this book has tremendous info on the API application. Web Developers would benefit greatly with this book, no doubt, with tips on how to build and modify scripts that can be custom based application on google. This book, not for surfers or casual web designers like me but who indeed aware of Programming and using codes n scripts n perl n xml n what not! Google is an ultimate research tool and a great search engine with good ad words links I like - my fav nex to 'yahoo' search and sure, my websites feature top with key words 'net newspaper for kids' and sure, you find all stars. Google Hacks - a great read for all Web Developers.	2003-12-07
US	49322932	R1280MQ1GP911H	0789424444	691247105	DK Essential Managers: Reducing Stress	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Emotional despair? Reduce Stress!	How Stressed Are You? This is the first question arising in today's Tech times. World Health Organization has predicted that by 2020, depression will be the greatest burden of ill health in the developing world and will be the second largest cause of death and disability!!!! One wonders but sure this book has a great indepth dose of Reducing Stress pills of info with analysis Quiz on Page 16 that actually lets one recognize existence of stress and later reducing it. In Analyzing the causes of Stress, society, the working world and daily life have changed almost beyond recognition in the past 50 years and these changes have contributed to a major increase in stress, says the author. Many factors add fuel to blown minds as we deal coping with daily life. The book has cool tips on Getting Organized in life itself, manage time,check the attitudinal traits, taking out time to relax, understanding personality types, building better relationships and check Health. Emotional despair is a major health disorder and so, before it's late, check those Stress flaws and learn to use mind power through Tim Hindle's book on 'Reducing Stress' - a Good Pick.	2003-12-07
US	49322932	R36Z3IBPHY0MW3	0716601044	880007821	The World Book Encyclopedia	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Best Reference!	Among the many Encyclopedias in my Library, I would first refer to World Book coz this is the Best Reference Book I ever come across so handy. Apart from this, I possess Everyman's Encyclopedia, Hamlyn's Children Encyclopedia, Groliers & Microsoft Encarta CDs, Brittanica Encylopedia, Collier's two Books, Oxford and a couple of kids encylopedias. These are oceans of knowledge and great storehouse of information. Each have their own peculiarities and each encyclopedia for me is a prize collection when it comes to finding on specific topics and comparisons. For example, the first Prime Minister Jawaharlal Nehru's info is missed out in World book but too informative in Microsoft Encarta. Whereas, World Book presents very good History and biography sections. Encarta has good sports, music and arts, etc section that I found interesting. Oxford and Collier's is quick easy glance for readers. Hamlyn's best for kids reference. I guess for people who are into research, students using for projects etc. should go for World Book Encylopedia, secondly sort for Microsoft Encarta CD - Rest all is ocean of knowledge, Enjoy!	2003-11-20
US	49322932	R3JR74FB7OI8FW	0345410149	224299099	Harry Lorayne's Page-a-Minute Memory Book	Books	4	17	23	N	N	The Master Whizz of Memory Power	Harry Lorayne, the master of `Memory Power' says : Memory is an essential food for success. Memory boost the confidence for success. And at the age seventy plus, Harry has superb memory powers and those who have seen him on televion in action or read his books are sure to exclaim &quot;Oh gosh! This is the Something! Memorising the names of a hundred strangers and than recognizing their faces and telling them their names just perfectly is real cool Memory! Who says &quot;When you become old, you start losing memory&quot; Harry just proves it wrong.Harry Lorayne's techniques increase performances as he says that every moment is precious and it counts. Sometimes, you don't remember the name of a person even though you sense it just beyond the grasp of your memory. You might not remember the name of a movie and such tip of the tongue which tots out incidents keep happening quite often. The best remedy for such flaws would be to stop fretting about it and take it lightly. Soon the memory is back normal again. Many times, we forget the keys and our minds go blank as we keep thinking and trying to locate it. It creates an annoying situation.Memory isn't fading but it's probably you didn't give the memory system the information it required. Harry Lorayne's techniques boost brain cells to activate, enhance powers of concentration, observation, be confident and makes a person alert and alive. You can test your Memory skills and get the tips and tricks to memorize in general, remembering names, telephone numbers, faces, classnotes, multiplication tables, music scores or just about anything. That's the Whizz Master of Memory Power Harry Lorayne with 'Page a Minute' Memory Book. Good and practically sound.	2003-11-20
US	49322932	R1KEX2IMABSHE6	0740732986	540957842	When Body Language Goes Bad: A Dilbert Book	Books	4	6	15	N	N	A Chance Read	Frankly speaking, Dilbert never been my fav Comic Strip and I usually preferred Archie, Betty, Jughead and Veronica next to the yester years Picture Mags 'Photo Romance' and 'Darling' which had cool pic stories. On net, I happened to subscribe Dilbert Dose a day comic strip in my Mail box and became a fan of Dilbert. Scott Adams books drew my attention and I 'Chance Read' this book &quot;When Body Language Goes Bad&quot; through a friend's collection. There's been a satirical humour with tip on iceberg you call - How to avoid work, outwit the boss and updating the readers on Dilbert's careers, projects, take over of companies that got mis-managed and team building excercises. For most of the employees, a Boss is the worst nightmare and there's this dump-loads of work piled up. The weasel ways comes in great handy tip to outwit the boss at critical hours and this book, even for a novice is good read and know the characters that play its roles. All a way into the workplace, the coworkers plots and the Boss's unscruplous ways. I've yet to read a lot of this stuff but this one's good for sure to begin with. A chance read yet a 'Good Read' and a 'Good Pick' too.	2003-11-14
US	49322932	R3RJ8ZD8D47F16	0380811960	867225344	How to Talk So Kids Will Listen & Listen So Kids Will Talk	Books	4	5	16	N	N	Little Secrets - Luv &amp; Patience	My in-depth study on the psychology of childrens' minds reveal the facts that their attitudes are solely dependent on their circumstances and their upbringing levels at home &amp; school. It's one thing sure any kid require is 'Love, patience &amp; Self Esteem.' Communication is proven skill. Talking n Listening to kids simply doesn't mean communication but Understanding with luv and patience is the key to successful parenting. This book by How to Talk So Kids Will Listen and Listen So Kids Will Talk by Adele Faber &amp; Elaine Mazlish has even been adopted by many parents in their day to day upbringing of kids. Parenting is made less stressful by the authors as the book deals with coping with parental frustrations and negative attitudes of kids. The child would not develop warm relationship due to damaged sense of self. The need for positive self regard is obvious in the illustrated book. The higher children's self esteem, the more secure, decisive, friendly, trusting, cheerful, optimistic and purposeful they are. Child's willingful cooperation, setting limits, alternate punishments are all the points covered up so effectively that parenting becomes more a joy to bring up kids. The book is a use alone or workshops/parental groups as its excellent exercises will improve ability as a parent to talk and problem-solve with your children. Afterall, children need continuity of guidance and when they learn the consequences of their acts, it teaches them to be responsible for what they do. A great reference book for parents on their shelves - bedroom or kitchen, whatever be!	2003-11-06
US	49322932	R2ZK4V3TXR6VY8	0785266666	716063546	Developing the Leader Within You	Books	4	5	11	N	N	A Leader is Born!	A leader is always Born and as far as the belief goes 'Leos are Born Leaders' - However, the concept of this Book by John Maxwell is Developing a Leader within. This requires a motivation, a vision and an influence as the writer shares the principles of management through real life anecdotes, charts and graphs. A truly inspiring book that reveals wiz ways to excel and be a Leader. Interesting strips portray Leadership qualities with real life examples and sure, this becomes a quick 'glance read' chirping the zeal in to strife for successive climb. I've always recommended Management Quotes book of Pramod Batra and so is this Book on top of my Charts. Influence always make a big difference and this book implies the influential tricks to scale high to be a leader. Maxwell's techniques prove to be genuine stuff and anyways, the picked topics speak wide :<br />1. Influence - Defining Leadership qualities<br />2. Attitude - It really makes a big difference<br />3. Positive Change - foster integrity and self-discipline<br />4. Priorities - Defining goals<br />5. Integrity &amp; People - Developing ties<br />Becoming a person of Influence is another Book of Maxwell that is thought-provoking and a Leadership technique of 'Influence' pays big dividends in longer run. A worthwhile life lesson to boost up self confidence and keep on high spirits with 'Developing the Leadership qualities' by John Maxwell. A sure fire way to adopt the techniques and surface the best in you.	2003-11-06
US	49322932	R29KB9OHDE8XA	0312305060	785940945	The Hours	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A Tribute	Three Characters - Three Lives and there lies the imprints of an author Virginia Woolf in 'Mrs.Dalloway. The Hours pays ironic tribute to Virginia Woolf, the acclaimed author of many pathbreaking novels, who committed suicide in 1941. Michael Cunningham became the winner of the Pulitzer prize and no wonder its been a contemporary bestseller book. Virginia Woolf, as described by the author is a gifted eccentric and not a writer at all. The central characters are Woolf herself and two other fictional women who are connected with her work in some way. We follow the three women with fascination, concern, watching as Woolf struggles with the novel that will name of the Cunnigham's characters and shape the life of another. As their life unfolds, it is irresistible read and urge to stop Virginia from taking the final step into the river even though Cunnigham has told in the first chapter, that she will and she does. The novel is a turnover pages into the world of three very different women celebrating and mourning their lives. The movie The Hours has three women reaching wider audience with performances given by Meryl Streep, Julianne Moore and Nicole Kidman. Though I've yet to see the movie, the Book is par emotional read in an easy chair in the corner of a room and effortlessly plunge into the world of three lives shaping the life of another. A nice Read.	2003-09-02
US	49322932	R3NLELPAYMSK71	0785271007	355357206	Becoming a Person of Influence: How to Positively Impact the Lives of Others	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Irresistibe Approach!	Maxwell's Book is a no doubt a unique approach towards creating an irresistible personality empowering impact on others through Influence. The author offers ready reckoner tips with simple ways to influence others through positive interaction and attitude to boost up the image. Worksheets at the end of the book are great insights to put theory into practice. It sure has leadership tactics of nurturing others and having faith in people who are on the roll. Understanding is the key towards healthy relations and developing leaders. Listenening method has a proven effect of influencing others. The author suggests serving sub-ordinates and impressing them with influence to get the better results and become a person of integrity. Influencing is an art and no wonder, this comes with a positive attitude and a positive approach, anyways. A good pick.	2003-08-12
US	49322932	R208IULT0ZRGVF	0671544640	104967651	Discipline Without Shouting or Spanking: Practical Solutions to the Most Common Preschool Behavior Problems	Books	4	1	13	N	N	Spare the Rod!	It's been said 'Spare the Rod, Spoil the child' these days with the new Gen kids! Sorry, not very true but no Spanking! Playing pranks and making mischief as a child is really tons of fun but every kid needs a code of conduct - a Discipline to adopt behavior patterns and possess self control. Children need to be taught to pause and think of the consequences that may result from their various behaviors. It is critical for educators to model self discipline. Younger children tend to throw tantrums, be rigid, stubborn, have sibling rivalry, be possessive, etc and these are the trial times for the parent to tackle firm where situations demand disciplinary action. In this book, instead of spanking,the authors effectively provide measures to cope up in situations when its hard to draw the line with their loving kids. The flash card approach is a plus point. Verbal spanking is an option to spank the kid. Words said in loving way, clear and firm voice would have its effect than abusing word war. The book says all about practical suggestions to adopt and check those flaws in kids for their own good without spanking the child. By controlling own words and actions, parents demonstrate to their kids, a healthy way to react to stress. A good pick for young parents, should say!	2003-08-12
US	49322932	R1OA3P8LCS86F7	0380799006	834404613	Siblings Without Rivalry: How to Help Your Children Live Together So You Can Live Too	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Siblings - Homegrown rivals!	Authors Adele Faber & Elaine Mazlish has published books like Siblings Without Rivalry & How to Talk so kids will Listen & Listen so kids will Talk. However, my in-depth study on the psychology of childrens' minds reveal the facts that their attitudes are solely dependent on their circumstances and their upbringing levels at home & school. It's one thing sure any kid require is 'Love, patience & Self Esteem.'<br />Psychologists caution against casting children in specific roles: the quiet one, athletic one, smart one, clumsy one and even a negative type can provide harmful self image that a child may carry throughout his life. Sibling rivalry is a competition for the affection and attention of their parents. Two best known Bible stories deal with bitter feuds between brothers-The Cain and Abel and the rivalry of Joseph and hisbrothers.Even in fairy tales - in 112 of the Grimm's' fairy tales, it is found that the youngest child came out a winner in battles with everything from evil gnomes to jealous siblings 92 percent of the times.<br />Psychologists authors of `Siblings without Rivalry' suggest that instead of thinking of equality in everything from parental attention to music lessons, parents should be sensitive to each child's individual needs.Self esteem of a child plays a major role. Comparisons should be avoided as each child is born with a difference. The authors have very valuable tips telling parents to adopt various methods and outcome with cartoons illustrating key points. The book reflects on the inner instincts of kids like jealousy and selfishness. Parents need to be aware of their attitude which become homegrown sibling rivalry. Communication is also important part that a parent miss out and impatiently tackles the sibling rivalry which only worsens things. Demonstrating love is very important and telling the child that he is so special. \\"I enjoy your friendship' or `I can always count on your support' or `You make me feents with + 2 & above kids.	2003-07-31
US	49322932	R3SVZGC5MQFALK	0852234570	215121930	Test Your Executive Skills: Assess Your Potential through 50 Effective Quizzes	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Know Your Potentiality - Check skills	There are times on Peak that your Career becomes stagnant inspite of efforts. This amazing valuable Book of Terry has always been my favourite. Doing crosswords and wordsearch is fun and so when I got this priced book, it didn't take much for me to grab the copy as the caption itself reads 'Test Your Executive Skills with thoughtful questions:<br />1. Are you a good leader?<br />2. Can you manage outstanding people?<br />3. Can you run effective meetings?<br />4. Can you handle a crisis?<br />5. Can you Manage your Time?<br />6. Can you seel your own ideas?<br />Inside are 50 Effective quizzes to assess your potentials and check performances and skills at work levels. If you are an Executive, definitely the book provides management for Success. It has highly perceptive analysis and with his experience as Manager of Personnel Development of UK Corporate Training dept., Terry Fansworth alongwith his four previous books has tremendous Development boosting to possess Executive skills. The Tests helps to see yourself as others see you and recognise the mistakes and makes one improve.Some of the Topics covered up in the book are: [Random selection]<br />1. Do you Procastinate? The delay tactics at work levels never brings in results.<br />2.Are you well organized? Bad working habits only lead to loss of respect from boss/ppl who work for you.<br />3. Are you a good speaker?<br />4. Can you handle Consultants?<br />5. How good a Politician are you?<br />6. Are you leading a balanced life?<br />7. How Tolerant are you?<br />8. Do you welcome a Change?<br />9. Are you in the Right Job?<br />10.Can you Take Tough Decisions?<br />More Topics with points to ponder over and Choose the answers that suits best, in a light, relaxed style. In today's time, when there are more Seminars conducted, more lectures through on Management skills and mind management, this Book, if you are able to grab the copy, will be tremendously helpful especially to brush up the Executive skills and ponder upon every Quiz Questions. That itself makes a Big Difference. It's 'Attitude' that counts afterall! Good Read.s. That itself makes a Big Difference. It's 'Attitude' that counts afterall! Good Read.	2003-07-28
US	49322932	R2GB5ZO1NETB6M	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Change with the Change!	Change with the Change! Yeah, Who moved my Cheese is all about financial resources, Security and Happiness to retain when things go beyond control with waves of Changes spelling alarm at Business, workplace or Life. The control power is 'You' the person and the author conveys the message with a form of fable - four characters, Sniff and Scurry, the mice and two little ppl mouse size humans hem and Haw. Cheese relates to our living ways, our jobs and career paths. With the sea of changes swapping in, one got to change with the change is the flavor of the Book. Like the cheese runs out, new sources need to be looked for and this is a moral booster bringing in awareness and alertness to find solutions to spoonfeed problems. Easy to read with quick glance, the book might provoke thoughts as to dig into lives of people speaking their experiences after the fable is said as they share their ideas and thoughts. However, every individual Business person or CEO at their work levels, face changes n have a scoop of their life, their best sorted principles n ways, the messages in the book serve only as a boost to face Changes. Life is full of obstacles and to deal with them, Dr. Spencer Johnson brings in a theme 'Who moved my cheese' - esp. the best part is the illustrations and the quicky 'quotes' which can be special motivators. No wonder, an upcoming Lecture presented by a reputed newspaper in my town on 'Who moved my cheese' may prove boon to many esp.in times of money crisis. Whatever, All said, its Thinking process to re-charge with renewed faith and this does the trick - Get the Cheese n say 'cheese' - Nice Read!	2003-07-25
US	49322932	R36LV8L8CPYYXE	0735201773	203286951	How to Say It to Your Kids	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Value Education	Value Education has been the buzz of the system with the New Gen' kids. Paul's Book is highly appreciated and recommended in India too coz one of the reputed School has gone for the Translation of the book into Gujarati language so as to use the same as a Guide for Teachers and Parents for development of kids. In a busy world, today's Parents face a tough time upbringing the kids with value education. Adults play a major role in promoting physical, emotional, spiritual and intellectual well being of a child. Dr. Paul Coleman present six fundamental formula on how to interact with kids with smart talk on basic topics concerning kids issues. With the ever rising cases of divorce, drug abuse, sexual harrassments, etc. Paul provides practical tips on how to tackle debated discussions with kids and provide value education. His main focus is centered on six topics i.e. Teach, empathize, Negotiate, Do's n Don'ts, Encourage and Report. Kids sort for various practices and throw tantrums at times, lying, adopting manipulative behavioural patterns, hooking to wrong activities n distracting from the innocence of childhood life. Situations arise when parents fail to understand the kids and unable to cope up providing answers to their curiousity driven question. Paul's book is handy at these times and provides a very useful resource and parental feedback. Parents and teachers need such 'Expert' advice and counselling to upbring kids as sound being. A good pick for every parent, teachers too!	2003-07-21
US	49322932	RCNHEDESXHPJ5	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What a Hype Read!	The release of this Book has been a 'Bang' - Call it a marketing Gimmick or the Fan Craze - The book is terrific! The witch craft evil and magic is not more like the past fear - Kids today know what's Real. Their imaginations soar high with their hi-tech enviroment and so the banning of this book by many schools I find a bit Surprizing! \\"Harry Potter and the order of the Phoenix\\" has mind boggling twists, entangled mysteries and thrilling sensation to chirp in those anxiety n awe struck feeling of a wonder world. The Order of the Phoenix is a secret society of old wizards who are trying to protect Harry from Voldemort. The society is founded and headed by Dumbledore. Voldemort - black hooded, tall and thin, his terrible snake like face white and gaunt, staring eyes - blockbuster encounter to ward the ends. The book is highly priced in India but yeah, if you are a fan of Harry Potter, sure its a read. It could be a great gift to the kid and encourage reading - That sure has happened with kids romping round the Bookstores to grab the copy. J.K.Rowling's done it and spell waves of excitement with kids...Parents n teachers too!	2003-07-15
US	49322932	R1GVK5YFGJH63T	081181811X	549470782	The Art of Chocolate: Techniques and Recipes for Simply Spectacular Desserts and Confections	Books	4	13	20	N	N	Chocolate Lovers Delight	I tried The Chocolate Lovers' Cookbook, a compilation by Juliet Cobb and ever since then, a great Chocoholic. As some ingredients were not available in town, I grabbed this book 'Art of Chocolates: Techniques &amp; Recipes from a friend. The books says in detail:<br />Start to Finish -<br />Ingredients and Tools<br />Melting and Tempering Chocolate<br />Spectacular Chocolate Confections<br />Chocolate Magic Tricks<br />Spectacular Chocolate Gifts<br />Spectacular Chocolate Cakes and Desserts<br />Basic Cakes, Fillings, Frostings, and Sauces<br />Easier to go through step by step with simple Instructions. The magic tricks are great I like most because once you make a chocolate, the appear has to be cool. So here's a mould,chocolate plates, bowls, boxes, cups, leaves, bows, flowers, tree bark various cutouts.Chocolate baskets, decorated boxes and various tricks is sure catchy. Of coz, some ingredients fall short in India, there's always some substitutes to use and I find it much easier to try my hand on one or two recipe but yeah, reading is cool n the taste touches the sweet tooth jes seeing the pics. A good pick.	2003-07-07
US	49322932	R2T5ICTZ5VNBRE	0446673862	930355622	Too Nice for Your Own Good: How to Stop Making 9 Self-Sabotaging Mistakes	Books	4	76	88	N	N	Niceness Mistakes-For Good!	How oft we create a wave to spell trouble with our own perfections being true and honest with good faith and intentions? We take on too much not saying what we want and that's exactly what the book reveals - the niceness mistakes that 'Damage' us! Unconsciously, we have planted strong messages in the back of our minds and with good intentions by our mentors, follow the moral code of conducts in life. Be good, be nice, be cool, share and care, don't be selfish, be reasonable, don't hurt others, help friends, say yes and so on. In real, trying to reach perfection and taking on too much lead us to exhaustion and sooner or later the ship of our life start sinking. The author gives an insight to the nine unconscious mistakes we often make daily and helps us correct them and pulls a person out of frustration and stress. In not saying what you want and taking on too much, it leads to suppressed anger. Robinson provides healthy tips to express anger to orchestrate a balanced life. Life itself is like riding a bike up and down roads that are bumpy, curvy, hilly while juggling bananas, balloons and bowling balls says Robinson and so this is when you have a fall, life needs balancing back to pedal and steer with too much/too little, too rational/too emotional, to fast/too slow, too cautious/too reckless, too strong/too weak, etc. and remain upright empowering to get what you need and deserve. Irony is, sometimes our niceness betrays us and this book is a key to understanding our mistakes and bring about a 'change' in us. Robinson makes us a nicer person making one realise the mistakes, why we make and how to give up. In doing so, Robinson guides in:<br /><br />1. Liberating from the bondage of other's expectations<br />2. Saying no and saving work overloads<br />3. Telling what we want and analyze what we receive is worth or not<br />4. Express anger that heal and maintain relationships too.<br />5. Face irrationality and criticism<br />6. Tell truth to friends when they fail us<br />7. Care for others without the burden of trying to run their lives<br />8. In pain and grief, feel competent enough<br /><br />A change is always welcome even for the nice to be nicer and avoid the mistakes that we keep making out of the blue. Our good intentions turn out to be damn-in-way for others who often misunderstand or shrug off not appreciating your worth as human being. This book is indeed a gem collection for every person who has learned to live being 'Nice' and remain being so without being emotionally hung up sometimes. Good Pick!ut the burden of trying to run their lives  8. In pain and grief, feel competent enough    A change is always welcome even for the nice to be nicer and avoid the mistakes that we keep making out of the blue. Our good intentions turn out to be damn-in-way for others who often misunderstand or shrug off not appreciating your worth as human being. This book is indeed a gem collection for every person who has learned to live being 'Nice' and remain being so without being emotionally hung up sometimes. Good Pick!	2003-06-11
US	49322932	R3CR2676ORPSLO	0671880608	457314081	Until You (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Royal Romance!	Judith McNaught's 'Until You' is indeed a Royal Romance pick that takes on high emotional Roller coaster ride! A spellbinding story-teller and that's Judith McNaught, irresistible reading and I find all her Books so amazinginly interesting Reads. She picks her fictional characters who possess courage and loyalty, of humor and integrity and who really care for others. As we read, the book leads to a Historical Royal Romance.If you've read the series of Judith's Books, you sure to like the characters twined in another. I've read a couple of books like A Kingdom of Dreams, Night Whispers, Almost Heaven, Remember When, etc and almost luv the characters. In this pick, Sheridan is hired to accompany one of her students to England to meet her Fiance. When she elopes, Sheridan is in scoop and later sweeps off her memory when she steps into the path of a cargo net loaded with crates. She falls in love and the romance read drifts one away into Royal Romantic experience. It's gr8 to meet Stephen,the younger brother of Clayton Westmoreland in Whitney My Love. A good read and good collection of Judith McNaught's Books on the shelf for Romance Reads.	2003-06-06
US	49322932	RP9SHW3Z6ZN40	0446329142	839482866	Bloodline	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Die Hard Fan of Sid	Call it a craze of a Die hard Fan of Sid - I find Sid's Books, Interesting Reads that glues to start to finish read. His novels are royal touch that walks one mentally through the series of events that are emotional, sensational, touchy, investigative, gripping. Till the end, Sid keeps mystery and thats the charm of his novels. Elizabeth, the main character of the book, inherits her Dad's Company worth millions of dollars and becomes indecisive what to do. Her emotional character is twined with many other characters in the book like a thriller movie. She has to outwit the unknown assassin who wants her life as Sid passes the reader through betrayal, greed, danger and killing phase. Sid portrays Elizabeth as intelligent, tough, daring and beautiful lady. A nice read on a Hot summer day to stay chilled in the comforts of the Reading room with the book.	2003-05-28
US	49322932	R35BRZAOKJQVSX	1842340433	96550932	As You Like It (Shakespeare for Everyone)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Charming Collection for All Ages	Shakespeare has ever been an 'Evergreen Exceptional' Read with its rich Literature, most admirable characters in unforgettable plays. Jennifer's series of Shakespeare plays is an easy read for all ages with lively introductions, story theme, character profile, knowing background, quotations and superbly illustrated pics. Apart from As you Like It, the Jennifer's series include all Shakespeare plays like Hamlet, Romeo & Juliet, Othello, The tempest, Twelfth Night, King Lear, Macbeth and so on. In As You Like it, the intro begins with the Elizabethan country Life details, briefly saying about the country lifestyles, labourers, honest farmers and country amusements. Following chapter says when the play was written and how shakespeare borrowed his story from a romance by Thomas Lodge called Rosalynde and made it so very different and lively. A brief story line 'As You Like It' gives the theme story in brief para styles and highlighted verses from the Play Acts in block forms. All the world's a Stage says about the seven ages of man with wonderful illustrated pic. The play's characters gives a glimpse into knowing them well at a glance. The Life and plays of shakespeare is listed which is very informative. The index section is a handy search on the back page. The Book is great piece for all ages and I recommed that such a collection is worth a pick and must for any home, school or library.	2003-04-23
US	49322932	R1KXMX84S800MI	0072193816	593641401	Hacking Exposed: Network Security Secrets & Solutions, Third Edition (Hacking Exposed)	Books	4	3	9	N	N	Truth revealed!	Recently I heard the Al Zazira website being hacked! Kewl!!! I wonder, was the Firewall system so poor of such a big website? Picking up this one, Hacking Exposed reveals how high profile sites and e commerce sites are penetrated. The book has endless Network security details and provides indepth knowledge of Operating systems, network applications and devices. Though it may motivate to educate Hackers, this book if seen on positive side, helps one to understand the security flaws in general that occur to hinder the website performances. System Administrators and Top Net Executives need to read the books to get 'Security Alert' & safeguard their interest to prevent any vulnerability. Administrative procedures help defeat from hack attacks to systems and counter measures make it ineffective.Techniques to hacking are exposed and breaking into telephony, firewalls systems etc. the various topics covered up.The Book Exposes what's really happenning on Network - Though for a common surfer its just a passing read but very useful to Tech buffs and interesting read to students who would be interested to know the way of the Wizard Networking. In Process of reading, one gets to be aware of how to use Hacking software but to the defensive point to take measures to point of protection. Normally not much into Technical reading, I recommend this book as a very good piece if you really wanna know the 'Hack Game' - Enjoy the Read!	2003-04-22
US	49322932	R24HYC5LS0HYGF	0446607207	984529165	Tell Me Your Dreams	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Chill n Freeze!	New York Daily News captioned 'If you want a Novel you simply cannot put down, go to Sheldon' & yep, I would add 'If you wanna thrill, glue down to the Chilling Novel of Sid n you Freeze in awe excitement' All my fav Sidney Sheldon novels are sure a real work of fiction based on actual cases! Tell me Your Dreams is based on one of the most bizarre murder trials where three women are suspects. A case of complex mind Ashley, Toni Prescott and Alette are shown as co-workers in a Global Computer Graphics. Toni's character is shown as daring, vivacious, saucy who would luv to hum 'mulberry bush'. There is series of murders beginning Dennis Tibble[a co-worker too] who took Ashley to his apartment and he was murdered. In follows Dy.Blake for investigations and the grip of the story continues with court scenes. A multi personality disorder syndromme case which makes one awe to wonder who could be the one? Sid adds in real medical cases and as to climax, Dr. Keller is been treating the patient Ashley and gives her a life - a case of tackling MPD. Sometimes misdiagnosed, these Multi personality disorder cases can be treated and the list of some organizations is detailed in this book at the end by the author. Like all the Sidney Sheldon books, this one is my fav too, a different theme than the others. No wonder, Sid appears in Guinness Book of Records as 'The Most translated Author' - Tell me your Dreams is just Chilling one!	2003-04-16
US	49322932	RFXVQ85IHHYSM	0553583786	802009744	Guinness World Records 2002 (Guinness Book of Records (Mass Market))	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fascinating Voyage of Discovery	Guinness World of Records is a Fascinating Voyage of Discovery to facts, figures, feats and lots more! It's amazing to know about the Greatest, Smallest, Heaviest, Tallest, fastest, first and all about the exceptionally 'The Best of the Best'.  As far as I remember, the First US edition appeared in New York in 1956 followed by editions in various languages later like the French, German in around 1962/63 and other editions in Japanese, spanish, etc. taking the flight to more than 250 plus editions in various languages. Indian dish 'Dhosa' by Sankalp in Ahmedabad, as the longest and largest size, is also on the Food Category which itself is Hall of Fame in Guiness World Records with more and more records to amaze us. Another Hotel Crown Plaza from Ahmedabad too, is featured for the Biggest Menu. The Book is divided into Categories on various topics with unique occurences and interesting peculiarities. Watching Guinness World Records on Television &amp; Ripleys is just Great viewing but reading and possessing the Book is a Prize Collection. I recommend such Books as they make a good Useful Book Shelf Possession.	2003-04-07
US	49322932	R1CET1SI11ZN3Q	1558744150	992986461	Chicken Soup for the Woman's Soul: 101 Stories to Open the Hearts and Rekindle the Spirits of Women (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Inspiring n touching tales...	There are so many Inspiring and touching tales that fills our hearts with emotion. One wonders 'why' things happen as they shouldn't or 'How' do miracles change the course of our lives. There are moments in everybody's life where at a point you encounter obstacles, where your self esteem gets low, attitude differences opine or whatever be, awe-inspiring stories of this book glues you to stir your heart to be more wiser. It rekindles the spirits undoubtedly when we read the emotional narrations of others and wonder - We too come across lot of experiences in life. Should we not pen it down? Easy it may seem, needs inspirations like these stories to share alike tales. This book sure is a great 'light up spirits' book for woman, self inspirations you can say. Topics on Love, Attitude &amp; self esteem, Special moments, Dreams, Truth &amp; wisdom n more are widely covered which makes it a special read. I cherish this book and read n re-read at times. Good pick	2003-04-06
US	49322932	R5FW2DBBKKAEN	0859697827	954413812	Body Language: How to Read Others' Thoughts by Their Gestures (Overcoming common problems)	Books	4	165	197	N	N	Reflection of soul Indeed!	I got this book a year ago and indeed this book is a reflection of the soul! What people say to us is different from what they think and feel! With Body language wiz by Allan Pease, one can correctly interpret other people's thoughts by their gestures. This book has quick references as 'How To' :<br />1. Find out if someone is lying<br />2. How to be more likeable to others<br />3. How to get cooperation<br />4. How to successfully conduct interviews and handle business negotiations<br />5. How to pick up a partner<br />More n more - What I like about this marvellous book of Allan is the illustrated Gestures. The eye signals and Hand-to-face gestures are simply terrific illustrated readings and Allan sure has deep roots to indepth study of Body Language, it seems. Hand and arm gestures,way of using cigars,cigerettes, glasses, head gestures, courtship gestures and signals and more wide areas are selected which is very interesting. A good Interesting read and good to explore.	2003-04-06
US	49322932	R2ZCRZAJPBM43Y	051770434X	98052266	The Way of the Wizard: Twenty Spiritual Lessons for Creating the Life You Want	Books	4	19	23	N	N	It's Way of Wizard Deepak - Invoking Spirituality?	Following my fav The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success, came by this Book The Way of Wizard, the twenty spiritual lessons that help readers go beyond ordinary reality by opening insights to attain values of spiritual transformation in everyday life Each lesson awakens the mind and turns us towards a more rewarding journey and this all presented in the form of classic teacher-student stories, Merlin's instructions to a young Arthur revealing the master of the Way of Wizard. Modern Life is full of pressures this way and out and lot of chaos n disorders that make one feel stressed out at times. One stumble but take care not to fail, says Merlin and has a logic on every Lesson quotes that follows with Understanding of Lesson &amp; Living with the Lesson. Deepak conjures up the voice of Merlin as the personification of our wisest self. Some Quotes that stirs to trigger thoughts in our mind in the book that I like most are:<br />Lesson 1 : \\"A wizard exists in all of us. This wizard sees and knows everything and nature reflects the mood of this wizard.\\"<br />Lesson 2:  \\"The essence of the wizard is transformation\\" Shrug the seeds of `ego' and transform - See innocently and you will give life!<br />Lesson 4: \\"Who am I?\\" The only question worth asking and the only one never answered\\"<br />Lesson 8: \\"Power is a double edged sword. Ego power seeks to control and dominate. The wizard's power is the power of Love.\\"<br />Lesson 10: \\"When the Shadow is embraced, it can be healed. When it is healed, it turns into love.\\"<br />Lesson 12: \\"The Uncertainty you feel inside is a doorway to wisdom\\"<br />Lesson 14: \\"Lose everything, and the real will still remain\\"<br />Lesson 15: \\"The purest love lies where it is least expected - in un-attachment<br />Lesson 19: \\"Every desire is created by some past desire. The chain of desire never ends. It is life itself.\\"<br />Cherishing dreams and living in realities; Creating Awareness within and leading to transformation; Living in innocence and shrugging off the ego; Being an achiever and giver at the other end; seeking fulfillment in life is all about the Way of Wizard from Deepak to achieve love, fulfillment and spiritual minds to lead life to live in happiness. Is this Possible, I wonder? Anyways, a good read that keeps your Thought process on the move.go; Being an achiever and giver at the other end; seeking fulfillment in life is all about the Way of Wizard from Deepak to achieve love, fulfillment and spiritual minds to lead life to live in happiness. Is this Possible, I wonder? Anyways, a good read that keeps your Thought process on the move.	2003-04-01
US	49322932	R3CG694P5EVNEB	0451163931	544774038	The Virtue of Selfishness: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	4	2	11	N	N	Hi-Fi Philosophical Ayn - Gem Picks for some	Vaguely I remember some guy telling me to read Ayn Rand and I found my way picking up gem selection like Fountainhead and now this `The Virtue of Selfishness' - The name that arouse interest itself `How can selfishness be a virtue?' The Philosophy of Ayn Rand is a logic, which has a major impact on the intellectual side. This book is a collection of essays appeared in The Objectivist Newsletter, edited and published by Ayn Rand and Nathaniel Branden, The issues that crop up day-to-day and the problems that arise were sorted by with every chapter. Selfish itself is regarded as `evil' word but Ayn Rand's philosophy regards Objectivist Ethics as a morality of rational self interest. An industrialist who produces a fortune and a gangster who robs a bank are regarded as equally immoral since they both sought wealth for their own selfish benefit. Since nature does not provide man with an automatic form of survival, since he has to support his life by his own effort, he would have to work in self-interest and this is not selfish means. It's like self-supporting with some moral codes and purpose of morality is to define man's proper values and interests and man must be beneficiary of his own moral actions. The Book is a high read and thought provoking. Reviewing is rather brief and so, if one is fond of philosophy, here is a good Choice Read - Ayn Rand's Best New concept of egoism with inputs by NB.	2003-04-01
US	49322932	R1GTJ1IHCRDMGH	0517320908	371307571	6200 Wisecracks, Witty Remarks & Epigrams for All Occasions	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Hold a Master-card of Wits with Ed's Pick	Words from the wise says a lot and is right said when you go through Ed's marvelous book - a great choice to pick alongwith Oxford's Dictionary of Quotations &amp; Oxford's companion to English Literature. Oxford books are a class apart but you can't resist a pick on this one from Ed Fuller because the selection of the wise cracks, witty remarks &amp; epigrams is just fantastic and certainly, full of humor that brings smile on a face. It's like holding a `Master-card' of wits for quick and easy access to wisdom grounds. A wide range of subjects and cross-references, supercharge conversation, speeches, writings, any time-any place-anywhere! The epigram usage is marvelous and used to fit your purpose with an example of Robert Ingersoll who took the old saying `An honest man is the noblest work of god' and brought it forth as `An honest God is the noblest work of man'<br />The Index of Epigram subjects is wide to choose from and these are thoughtful and thought provoking. A good book to reflect ideas and must for every home, office, library.	2003-03-21
US	49322932	R1SJJZHBKU1UUK	0192800701	431510561	The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Quotations (Oxford Quick Reference)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Genius's Pick	On gulf war, in a speech on 7th Jan 1991, Saddam Hussein reported that he was ready for the `mother of all wars' (Page 176) and so goes on the many a quotes by over 9000 spoken by politicians to pop stars, literature figures to bible! This book is amazing `The Concise Oxford Dictionary of Quotations' - a handy guide to be `Perfectionist' to show wits in a group to quip a quote around on any occasion. This is a good companion with exhaustive entries of quotes with useful alphabetical index and listing with easy search at the back pages of the book. The cover illustration is impressive alongwith back review that says at a glance about the Quotes mentioned from Literature genius like Homer, Shakespeare, Milton, Hugo, political leaders who made history, singers like bob marley, film stars to bible quotes and so on. There are quotes mentioned from letters, speeches, diaries and people we never heard before with literary or other published works quoted. This book sure increase our levels of intelligence and road ahead to be a wee bit of genius in terms of `showing off' to quip a quote in group get-togethers, speeches, etc. A good pick & a sure `Great  Choice Pick'  if one is especially fond of Literature & poetry.	2003-03-21
US	49322932	R3JCP991T2QM1F	0911206043	647101182	Vivekananda: The Yogas and Other Works	Books	4	17	18	N	N	A Great Spiritual Master	As you have come into this world, leave some marks behind. Otherwise, there is no difference between you and the stones and the trees...said Vivekananada, the great spiritual master of all times. This book contains Vivekananda's Jnana-Yoga, Raja-Yoga, Karma-Yoga, Bhakti-Yoga, and Inspired Talks, together with additional lectures, poems, and letters. Nice Introduction by Swami Nikhalananda with biography and photographs of Swami Vivekananda.Vivekananda said 'Do not care what be your color - green blue or red. Mix up all colors and produce that intense glow of white, color of love and through this book shows reasons of faith and immense study of vedanta focus on spiritual recognition and achieve self realization. He believed that, Truth, purity and unselfishness - wherever these are present, there is no power below or above the sun to crush the possessor thereof.This book makes one understand the spiritual culture and westerners get a peak a boo into the religious consciousness leading to one god - the universal creation known by name god. A nice read.	2003-03-07
US	49322932	R2CJYMIUO4S13U	0911104216	149915035	Richard Hittleman's Yoga: 28 Day Exercise Plan	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Keep the Pace & Keep Alive	Not much a Yoga freak, I happened to follow the 28 day Excercise Plan of this book of Yoga by Richard Hittleman and sure, it hit high to shoot all five stars in my fav list.If a work out plan for 20-30 minutes per day is followed with this book, it sure is an accomplishment to good frame of mind, body and soul. Beautiful photographs make the workouts accelerate Yoga system ideal for all ages. Alongwith the Practice Plans are Thoughts of the Day that make one Think wise, right and continue with the two major Yoga practice in this book - Raja Yoga i.e. Meditation and Hatha Yoga i.e. Physical. Its objective is to cultivate the natural beauty of body and attain high health state. Achieve self Realization too. This book is exceptional because when I used this, the illustrated pics were much easier to follow alongwith the instructions and thats so cool about it especially when one is lazy to go out for Workouts to gym, do aerobics or whatever. This book instructions can be followed in own room space at own pace of time and keep fit, high spirited and maintain proper balance, concentration and control of mind. A good pick.	2003-03-05
US	49322932	RRRA4W0MN0TSB	0312169272	563718361	Meditation: The First and Last Freedom (A Practical Guide to Meditation)	Books	4	19	22	N	N	The Freedom within	Osho has ever been known as a Mystic, enlightened master who worldwide created a rebellion for the sake of man's freedom and meditation. Osho said \\"Meditation is not something new; you have come with it into the world. Mind is something new, meditation is your nature.\\" Meditation is an adventure itself. The book has notes to reader on how to use the book with a followed chapter on What is meditation. Osho has steps to powerful methods of awakening, Osho Meditative Therapies as:<br />1.Mystic Rose Meditation with his great logic and instructions for laughter and tears<br />2. The No mind Meditation with instructions to meditate, stages of gibberish or conscious craziness, witnessing and let go.<br />3. Guidelines for Born Again<br />4. Dancing as meditation<br />5. Laughing Meditation<br />6. Prayer Meditation<br />7. Dream mastery<br />Many more various meditative tips making one count the moments of awareness, making things simple as possible and witnessing - Meditation is your Master Card and Osho just instructs on the tricks of mind in this book. Watching with the Third Eye, Rising in Love, Laughter of Zen, Entering into death, Music as Meditation are some interesting reads in this Osho book leading to first and last freedom - Practical guide of Meditation. A good read.	2003-02-25
US	49322932	R37SOFM2A99VCJ	0767907639	659080398	Why Men Don't Listen and Women Can't Read Maps: How We're Different and What to Do About It	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Light Hearted & witty	Stepping close to my Fav `Men from Mars, Women from Venus, this book projects insight to behavioral patterns among men and women. The book is hilarious and thoughtful at the same time to understand relationships. The book reveals the Interrogative `why's' like Why  women are too talkative than men or why men love erotic images and women aren't impressed! There is an endless list of why's of living different worlds and the authors Allan & Barbara Pease says `It's all in the mind' with catchy illustrations and eye opener chapter, research of the male and female brain with a simple remarkable Test to show why brain behaves as it does. The Talking & Listening Chapter reveals the fact why women dominate in speech abilities and men remain good listeners. Italic quote revelations and dialogues say a lot in a glance as one read the book Every chapter begins with a unique illustration and humor quip that's brings a cheesy smile on the face. Allan & Barbara has explained about differences that wreck way to fulfilling relationships and understanding basic urge can lead to Self awareness and improved relationship between sexes. An easy read, no detail conclusions but mere research - `Take it as you like it' because I think its personal choice of Reading why's and everyone's experience differs altogether, any ways! The reading is pretty cool & light hearted style. However, when it comes to reading maps, well, I guess lot of women now `CAN' & `DO' read Maps - Women are sure different, no wonder unpredictable. A good easy going pick to pick some examples to screw fun around!	2003-01-25
US	49322932	R2XRCEJVE8HHE7	0194311384	859885732	Oxford Wordpower Dictionary	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Extraordinary Collection	Oxford Wordpower Dictionary stands Best, a sure pick among the rest. I used the Collier's, The Little Oxford, Oxford Difficult words, Oxford Universal English Gujarati Dictionary &amp; yeah, lot more in my Library, but this one is oh so User friendly especially for the Learners of English. This new Dictionary has clear simple definitions using core vocabulary, use in words, notes explaining difficulties and showing links and contrasts between words. The pictorial illustrations are easier for grasping and the Study pages are just excellent which covers various topics for eg.<br />1. Vocabulary pages covering Education, govt., environment, family, health &amp; fitness, etc.<br />2. Study notes with word formation, punctuation, letter writing, phrasal verbs, etc.<br />This makes a powerful Learning &amp; handy with confusing words and easy made sentences showing the meaning of the word thereof.A sure pick for the shelf.	2003-01-20
US	49322932	R2VUZVJYJUMSVU	0807059099	621355794	Gandhi: An Autobiography - The Story of My Experiments With Truth	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Long Live Mahatma, Long Live the Nation	Gandhiji was a person who believed in the dignity of man and left us all a legacy of ahimsa, love and tolerance. His life was guided by a search for truth. In the `My Experiments of the Truth', Gandhiji stressed that truth was god and his aim in life was to achieve truthfulness in thought, word and deed. Ahimsa, to him was the highest virtue. By non violence, Gandhi meant not merely the absence of violence but also loving concern for all life. He believed that truth could be known only through tolerance and concern for others and that find a truthful way to solutions required constant testing. He taught that to be non-violent required great courage. He adopted Satyagraha based on principles of courage, non-violence and truth. This method was used to fight for India's independence and to bring about social change.  The book has exceptional revelations of Gandhiji's own life, his experiences, his beliefs and the stepping stone of his career. A widely read and an inspiring collection, Gandhiji's Autobiography gives a glimpse into the Indian culture and living on path towards Truth &amp; Non violence. A pick for every one who believes in peace n calm.	2003-01-20
US	49322932	R2STJ2TRMR0OHQ	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Stunning Storyteller when Night Whispers Silence!	Judith Macnaught is a stunning Storyteller especially when the Night Whispers Silence at midnight with its enthralling, masterful plots creating suspense. It has been great reading this book endlessly as it heads like a series of Stunts in the Bond movie Die Another Day. Judith's books are all Romantic filled with suspense leaving readers awed. The mystery shrouds around Sloan Reynolds whose upbringing was away from her family who suddenly invites her and she enters into her father's life when the FBI Agent Paul informs her that her father and his associates are suspected of fraud and murder. She hides her true profession and meets Noah to whom she is attracted and passes through a maze of deceit and passion as the story goes on. Quite capturing book, witty and romantic filled with plots. Night Whispers is jes a Superb Book - a wonderful love story, fast paced and a great page turner, my Pick for sure:-)	2003-01-06
US	49322932	R2SINFWN2T6IOW	0446526320	408383626	How to Succeed in Business Without Working so Damn Hard: Rethinking the Rules, Reinventing the Game	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Damn Hard Cash Crunch &amp; Start Living!	It has ever been a race to meet the deadlines, blindly following up the routine work pressures and sacrificing the wee hours of life in order to gain achievement to label n brand it as `success' - This is the major folly of most efficient people at workplace who pay a price missing wider opportunities to enhance better future. The game is all about Working wisely and not Damn Hard as the Author advice cool tips on how to succeed in Business with a shapened job performance pulling in the effective measures to take charge of total control of time schedules. Robert Kriegel's own experience has inspirational theme to add to productivity with less efforts. He focus on more efficiency reducing stress levels at workplace. With latest technology creeping in day in and out, cell phones, computers, internet demands more Time, money and energy levels to cope up with mounting work pressures. I personally feel, work never has a dead end but life's frustration do! And this is where Robert's insights are really helpful to be a success and re-think over working Damn hard as its endless. There is a time for let-go and just do nothing sometimes to rejuvenate oneself again and Robert's book is a tip on ice-berg `Work wonders, work wise ways' and there you scale higher to achieve in this economy crunch  - all gains and no pains. I personally recommend this book for workoholic Businessmen and management leaders. A must read	2002-11-25
US	49322932	R2ULJ44FVNCD4J	0812931971	94222281	Executive Instinct : Managing the Human Animal in the Information Age	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Change with the Change!	The evolution of mankind, nevertheless had been a `Stone Age' with an animal behavior,  which has been a hard fact and Nigel Nicholsan just reminds that.  The book's eight-fold plan suggest getting the most out of it instead of building up individuals to polish their behavioral patterns. The brief sum up of human relationship and personality development  go hand to hand to jumpstart the leadership qualities optimistically and psychologically get the human nature work in favor to get the positive plus. Nigel gives an insight to wisdom ways of behavioral patterns as to why humans drive out 100 plus with just one bad happening. Evolutionary psychology (EP)  is the current debate where human nature varies from genetics to genetic and organizations today need not act on instincts but go ahead with nature attributes. Being an Instructor in Business segment, Nigel has ways and suggestions for Organizations to scratch off the negatives, block off the darker sides. The book says much on Leadership communication and organization as one big community keeping in tune to balancing sex differences, nature barriers and positively focusing on rumors and gossips as lifeblood of communication at work place. Nigel suggest ways to rule off tough times at workplace n avoid disasters. The book is on programming the mind with Executive Instincts to manage with human nature which is quite natural n head way to tolerance to manage erroneous zones which would rather than create a block for learning abilities. I recommend this book especially very necessary to enhance Leadership qualities and adopt the IQ, EQ, SQ and win a `win chance' with EP - A must follow up of the plans of Nigel Nicholsan, Indeed! Sure Pick.	2002-09-25
US	49322932	ROVRLMM8X5B71	0892131233	561265045	Bhagavad-Gita As It Is	Books	5	36	46	N	N	The Absolute Mystery - Vedas Wisdom	With over two dozen languages and more than five million hardbound copies in print, undoubtedly, Bhagvad Gita As it is by Divine Grace A.C.Bhaktivedanta Swami Prabhupada is the best selling and widely read classic in world literature. It reflects the main literary support for the great religious civilization of India, the oldest surviving culture in the world. This sacred book is well explained, easy to read with sanskrit shlokas well translated and pronunciations made easier. The subject of Bhagvad Gita entails the comprehension of five basic truths. First, science of god is explained and than the position of living entities, jivas. The living entity is controlled by the controller 'God head krsna' and the material nature 'prakriti' and time, the duration of existence of the whole universe and karma 'activity' are discussed. Finally, its god's wish and he makes or breaks the world! Bhagvad gita is written with 18 chapters - the conversation of krsna with Arjun as brief below:<br />1. Chapter One: Arjun gives up determination to fight at the battlefield of kuruksetra out of grief n pity when he sees his intimate relatives, teachers and friends in both armies ready to fight and sacrifice their lives.<br />2. Chapter Two: Krsna begins his teachings to Arjun and explains the distinction bet. the temporary material body and eternal spiritual soul. Characteristics of self realized person is explained.<br />3. Chapter Three: Karma Yoga i.e. one must engage in activity where actions can bind one to the world or liberate. Perform for the pleasure of god's will without selfish motives and attain transcendental knowledge.<br />4. Chapter Four: Transcendental knowledge, spiritual knowledge of the soul, of god and their relationship. Krsna explains history of Gita, purpose and significance of his periodic descents to the material world and the necessity of approaching a guru.<br />5. Chapter Five: Action performed and their fruits to attain peace, detachments, forbearance, spiritual vision and bliss.<br />6. Chapter Six: Controlling of the mind and senses and focus on concentration on god (lord is in heart)& explains the meaning of 'samadhi' full consciousness of supreme.<br />7. Chapter Seven: Knowledge of Absolute god. Krsna is the supreme truth and advanced souls surrender unto him in devotion.<br />8. Chapter Eight : Attaining the supreme god and remembering krsna in devotion whole life n at time of death, one can attain to his supreme abode, beyond material world.(This is one chapter that is always spoken in most Hindu families during ritual rites when someone dies)<br />9. Chapter Nine: The most confidential knowledge of bhakti - praying to godhead krsna.By reviving one's pure devotion, one returns to krsna in spiritual realm.<br />10.Chapter Ten: All power, beauty, grandeur or sublimity, in material or spiritual world are manifestation of krsna.<br />11.Chapter Eleven: Krsna grants Arjun the vision and reveals his form as cosmic universe and explains his own humanlike form is the original form of godhead and one can perceive only by pure devotion.<br />12. Chapter Twelve: Bhakti yoga to attain luv of krsna and they develop divine qualities.<br />13. Chapter Thirteen: Difference bet. body, the soul and supersoul beyond them both attains liberation from material world.<br />14. Chapter Fourteen:Souls are under the control of three modes i.e.qualities of material nature - goodness, passion and ignorance. How these modes act upon is well explained here.<br />15. Chapter Fifteen: Detaching oneself from material world and understand godhead. One who understand krsna surrenders to him and become devotional.<br />16. Chapter Sixteen: Difference of Divine and Demoniac nature is explained here. How to gain spiritual perfection.<br />17. Chapter Seventeen: Three types of faith evolving from three modes of material nature. Acts performed by those who have faith in passion and ignorance yield only impermanent, material results whereas acts performed in goodness, lead to pure faith in krsna.<br />18. Chapter Eighteen: The concluding part which explains the meaning of renunciation and effects of the modes of nature on human consciousness and acitivity. Surrendering to god which frees one from sins, bring enlightenment and be eternal spiritual mode.<br />Krsna says in Gita,<br />\\"Aham sarvasya prabhavo, Mattah sarvam pravartate<br />Iti matva bhajante mam, Budha bhava samanvitah\\" meaning \\"I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds. Everything emanates from Me. The wise who perfectly know this engage in my devotional service and worship me with all their hearts\\"<br />So, if you have read Bible or Koran or any religious book, Bhagvad Gita is a choice 'Absolute'to read about the 'Absolute Godhead' After all, God is a mystery and nobody ever knows who the real person is otherwise I feel, there would be no wars and only peace on earth if Bhagvad Gita Mahima (krsna's sayings) is followed by humans. A sure Pick.e faith in krsna.<BR>18. Chapter Eighteen: The concluding part which explains the meaning of renunciation and effects of the modes of nature on human consciousness and acitivity. Surrendering to god which frees one from sins, bring enlightenment and be eternal spiritual mode. <br />Krsna says in Gita, <BR>\\"Aham sarvasya prabhavo, Mattah sarvam pravartate<BR>Iti matva bhajante mam, Budha bhava samanvitah\\" meaning \\"I am the source of all spiritual and material worlds. Everything emanates from Me. The wise who perfectly know this engage in my devotional service and worship me with all their hearts\\"<br />So, if you have read Bible or Koran or any religious book, Bhagvad Gita is a choice 'Absolute'to read about the 'Absolute Godhead' After all, God is a mystery and nobody ever knows who the real person is otherwise I feel, there would be no wars and only peace on earth if Bhagvad Gita Mahima (krsna's sayings) is followed by humans. A sure Pick.	2002-09-24
US	49322932	R32GYVIMM4PNIL	0961741015	713418004	001: The Secret Teachings of the Vedas: The Eastern Answers to the Mysteries of Life Volume One	Books	4	38	41	N	N	The spiritual Journey to Mysterious Horizons	Stephen Knapp's book focus on eastern answers to the mysterious horizons explaining the theories about the universe, the souls, life after death and the ideas of the Absolute Lord. It's an indepth introduction to vedic teachings. The easter philosophy is well explained with Chapters one to four giving clear insights into who and what is your real identity and vedas give an understand as to what life really is. Chapters Two and three explain how vedas influence great men of the decade and the vedic background info of its compilation. Fifth chapter focus on Law of Karma and reincarnation. The sixth chapter is on reincarnation of different lives in different bodies. Chapter seven describes a little about universe structure and heaven n hell. Chapter eight reveals the evolution theory and vedic spiritual growth with a cycle of repeated birth and death. Chapter nine gives an insight of human existence. Tenth and eleventh chapter explain how God is Supreme Power whose influence should be recognized in our everyday Life.Chapter Twelve speaks of spiritual world which is found only in vedic literature.<br />I remember reading 'Our Daily Bread' booklets and having read Bible stories & Bhagwad Gita parts, do feel that Vedic Literature stands class apart when it comes to spiritual knowledge and it demands understanding and indepth reading.As most of vedic philosophy scholars know, originally refer original four vedas : The Rig, Yajur, Sama and Atharva Vedas. The book on Vedas refer to upanishads, Vedanta sutras, Brahmanas and aranyakas - all the texts revealing knowledge whereas the remaining parts of Vedic literature consists of the Mahabharata, Bhagwad gita, Ramayana and Puranas.Stephen's Book is must read for people who are trying to understand human evolution and existence and how to attain happiness, cause of suffering, real unity between us, how to achieve freedom, how to achieve individual and global peace, law of karma and incarnation, the Absolute - Supreme God realization and much more.ation and much more.	2002-09-08
US	49322932	R34I87KXSOO8FM	1577311523	155458601	The Power of Now: A Guide to Spiritual Enlightenment	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Path of Happiness 'Live Now'	A simple yet powerful message by Ekhart Tolle's - Live Now, live with the Present and you remain sailing on the sea of life. The author packs it with lots of infomation, messages floating with a clear, enthusiastic voice focusing on enlightened life, creativity and live genuinely in peace and happiness.It's a masterpiece of a new generation leaving behind the traumas of pain, suffering and adopting the method of staying 'afloat' n survive. The book has Eastern and Western spiritual teaching influence. Tolle believes in 'self', the true conscious living and not only believing in 'God'The Power of Now is living the 'Present' and accepting the 'I' as Arthur Deikman puts it, which is identical to awareness and one who is aware, Now is realised - So is this true. I recommend this book as a Spiritual self trainer to 'Let-go' off the pain n suffering and leave behind the scars to live in Present.	2002-08-17
US	49322932	R1KW5TWD8LUT6H	0449911470	763579968	Power of Positive Thinking	Books	5	23	28	N	N	The Power of 'Believe in Yourself'	Opening words of Norman Vincent Peale in this book says all &quot;Believe in Yourself &amp; Have faith in your Abilities.&quot; Millions of people read the book and its a master piece through ages. The Book reflects the positive power of wisdom that defeat is not a root cause for a down trend. It suggests techniques and gives examples which demonstrate that one can have peace of mind, better health and never ceasing flow of energy to face the hardships and tragedies in life with the power of Positive thinking. A mental diet for every human with creative living based on spiritual techniques, Peale's system outlines perfect and amazing method of successful living. Thoughts inflow remake 'You', the very person who is responsible to create his own happiness and this is what Peale explains through various topics. Its time to stop fuming and fretting when things go wrong and break the worry habits. Faith is healing and a the best prescription for heartache is the Physical activity, says Norman. He elaborates the power technique that there is no point to sit and brood instead Get Set Right with action and be constructive. Norman shows the power to solve personal problems with a belief that there is a solution for every problem, keep calm instead of tension blocking the flow of thought power, trust in the faculty of insight and intuition, seek god's guidance and he would flash illumination into the problem mind. It's expecting the Best to Get Best as Positive Thinking is the road to happiness. Norman's book is simly a practical, direct-action, personal improvement manual and written with sole objective to help readers achieve a happy, satisfying and worthwhile life. A must Pick and a must Read Book.	2002-08-02
US	49322932	R1JX16HLNCDXHW	0060503009	549547368	Zap the Gaps! Target Higher Performance and Achieve It!	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Zap with Action - Zapping the gaps with 'We n Us'	Zap the Gaps is a sure fire way with tips n tricks to improve the Management skills n shoot rise high the company performance. The book marvels a class to bridge the gaps to approach, find and resolve the root causes of the management flaws at grass root levels. The authors state to adopt enhanced strategies to bridge the gaps between the management n employees. The win to excel rule is applied to better the workplace environment to sail smooth in a more applied work force results. The authors have engaging tale with examples as they focus on the problem of high tech firm and their tool Zap gapper brings in a sea of change to tackle the issues. A must read for CEOs n Managers to boost up their egos n bring out the potentialities of employees to scale for better performance. It sure is like zapping in action for results with a more 'Team work - We n Us'	2002-07-13
US	49322932	R5EZWVMGCWL1F	0060503009	549547368	Zap the Gaps! Target Higher Performance and Achieve It!	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Zap with Action - Zapping the gaps with 'We n Us'	Zap the Gaps is a sure fire way with tips n tricks to improve the Management skills n shoot rise high the company performance. The book marvels a class to bridge the gaps to approach, find and resolve the root causes of the management flaws at grass root levels. The authors state to adopt enhanced strategies to bridge the gaps between the management n employees. The win to excel rule is applied to better the workplace environment to sail smooth in a more applied work force results. The authors have engaging tale with examples as they focus on the problem of high tech firm and their tool Zap gapper brings in a sea of change to tackle the issues. A must read for CEOs n Managers to boost up their egos n bring out the potentialities of employees to scale for better performance. It sure is like zapping in action for results with a more 'Team work - We n Us'	2002-07-13
US	49322932	R2ZS1Z3DBB0FKA	0960170618	513827584	Power Reading : The Best, Fastest, Easiest, Most Effective Course on Speedreading and Comprehension Ever Developed!	Books	5	5	27	N	N	Dive into Ocean of Power Reading	It is said &quot; For the mind's nourishment, reading is essential. Minds feed on minds. When you read, you grow with its riches&quot; In the book of Alvin Toffler, the world famous author of `Future shock' and the `Third Waves' have mentioned that the world has poised at the brink of a Third wave, in which the power of the machine would be replaced by the power of mind. So, this is Information Age where the role of computers and communication is leaping ahead for modern advanced age but to master the skills of computing and understand or adopt the new technology, one needs to Read between the Lines! Power Reading by Rick Ostrov is one book not to miss digging in the stuff n exploring the power it reveals. It is said, an average reader can read 300 words a minute. In seven days, the person can read 31,500 words! Books vary in length from 60,000 words plus and so in one year of average reading by an average reader of 15 minutes a day, at least one can read 12 to 15 books a month. John F. Kennedy was the fastest reader and if you follow the Instructions of Rick Ostrov in Power Reading, it does help in Speed n Comprehension and of coz,the effects are tremendous in mastering the tricks of trade. Cool Pick, I should say - The most valuable course handy around.	2002-07-12
US	49322932	R182NSYZZO54U8	0609608207	107157698	The Myth of Excellence: Why Great Companies Never Try to Be the Best at Everything	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Genuine Marketing pays off	The success of any company always depend on the discipline of marketing, breaking off the malpractice adopted by and large by many companies. Respect, service, trust, genuine quality are the values to strengthen from the grass root levels. Fred Crawford and Ryan Mathews with a in-depth research of many companies reveals that customer service is the key to success and the customer experience is the prime dedicating factor consideration in time to come. The book is an insight to the companies to offer the best by examining their products and executing them with par excellence to stand by the competitive edge. Myth of Excellence is way of the wizard to gain the confidence of the customers. The idea to give a commission and link to something `free' is a common notion. The rates pulled up to a 20% and than the discount offered only stems out indecent bargain ethics. Brand name and quality are in demand and customers often resort to the quality and service of the consumer products. Catching promotions do attract but the consumer stays unimpressed if quality, service & trust is not offered.Trust is the key of a merchant's scale to shoot up the success chart. This book is a read for CEOs and Company marketing Dept executives to play their roles and create a brand offering the best of the best to keep the customer list hooked to their line of products. Appreciation of the customers motivates the team for a success. This book is a good read for CEO's of Companies whofall below standards  and it stands a handy resource guide to marketers who wish to excel and stand a `class apart' wading the competition to be on top. I recommend this book as it has the value guidance for Companies who want to reach the `winning edge'- Whatever be the product!	2002-07-02
US	49322932	R1KXXN6X4UL1YI	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Building Better Relationships at Workplace!	Marcus Buckingham & Curt Coffman reveal their inner vision to focus on four keys to become excellent managers. Leaders are sometimes someone who yells, explodes, makes nearly impossible demands and rarely consider feelings of his subordinates in the changing scenario of Business challenges. In fact, Managers need the right feedback and know-how to deal with the employees and select them on the basis of talents & not only on skills and intellects. Managers need to pick the right choice, know the strength of the employee and define right results. Their role is to encourage and motivate the staff and the manager is totally responsible to build a team spirit says the Authors. Buckingham & coffman focus on hiring people on their talents rather than experience. The employee need to be appreciated and rewarded for the job done well. Some Managers zoom on in on the weakness of employee to create embarrassment and humiliation. First Break All the rules indeed Shows the Managers to be different and recognize the potentials in the staff. Any employee who is facing a management flaw is `slogging' in an uneasy environment and the results too lead to a downward fall in longer run. The result is either the staff finds the Boss Crazy or leave the job for a better prospects. This book is a read for all Managers & Leaders who want to retain their Star employees and reward them for their expertise to grow mutually. Bosses who are control freaks, unreasonable and not practical fail to survive. HRD is one main branch of company that is important and this book is just a tip on the iceberg, the right guide to Managers & staff to work in harmony, knowing their respective roles. The employees need opportunity to grow, clear concepts of work assignments, be praised for their achievement, right environment & friendly approach, motivation and their voice be heard as regards to their work level opinions & suggestions. First Break All the Rules: What the world's Greatest Managers Do Differently is my one most lovable book and when I read this book, I feel this is the right choice of Gift to give to any Leader who wish to Break Rules for better interaction and involvement, building better work place relationships for fruitful results. Yep, a gift to Break Rules - self improve and training session of Effective Management for Boss too!is my one most lovable book and when I read this book, I feel this is the right choice of Gift to give to any Leader who wish to Break Rules for better interaction and involvement, building better work place relationships for fruitful results. Yep, a gift to Break Rules - self improve and training session of Effective Management for Boss too!	2002-06-30
US	49322932	R2UZ4E2K86YF9P	0891093117	514140897	Parenting With Love and Logic : Teaching Children Responsibility	Books	5	6	13	N	N	New Parenting Waves...	There has been a new parental concern to raise happy and disciplined kids. The book offers chock full of tips and best parenting resources to implement upon with understanding, love and support. The kids need to be organized, understand their responsibility and grow up graceful. Parental influence plays a major role that raise up happy, productive and constructive kids. There is no doubt that in today's rivering of change, Parental guidance plays a vital role in the development of a child. Mentors need to take a breathe from their precious time schedules. Lately children are found to be hyper active and many face the ADHD - a major attention deficit in the classroom and in their day to day chores. Too much spoonfeeding is no good neither spanking brings in the results. However, sparing the rod too makes today's kid stick to his own rules sometimes. Its neither spanking out of frustration nor sparing the rod the right method because recent parental concerns focus more on the understanding with love and logic that works wonders. Emotionally kids are hunger of love and need a moral support. Parents require to provide value based education and proper coaching to build up their self esteem. They need the inspirations, motivation and encouragement that a parent only can provide with love and tactfully raise their childhood to bloom gracefully.Kids need to be self confident and the book provides the best tips n tricks to raise kids with love and logic. This book provides the right feedback to parents who sort out for ways in times where they get stuck up to play their roles. A must read for parents & teachers as well.	2002-06-23
US	49322932	R367OLIEU6SWN4	0061044482	928010604	If It's Going to Be, It's up to Me: The Eight Proven Principles of Possibility Thinking	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Mind Rules!	Setting up goals in life is a step to optimistic accomplishment. If it's going to be me, its upto me to make the 'Decisions' firm and keep them final to achieve what we want. Realising own strengths with a positive 'I can do it' is in itself an initial step towards reaching heights. Robert Schuller's books are gems of inspirations and this one is just the 'Attitude' - shrugg off the black seeds of inferiority complexes and come out to accept the changes with vital energy and think positive. All his 'Better Yourself' serious is marvellous collections. It's the inner fire to flicker flame and positively pace ahead to be real 'Ownself', know the potentialities and think with mind rathar than use the heart. Rob's has a unique style of setting examples, adding the spiritual zest of bible stories but the main purpose stands for personal improvement and managing self to be better and best. Positive attitude pays dividends when you break free to grasp all that you dream. Whatever the faith be, Rob's book has the inspirational motivation to push forth the reader to smooth sail in life. Set goals, set priorities, think positive and achieve success with commitment to fulfil the desires - just decide upon today and think 'If it's going to be me, it's up to me and nothing can stop you from looking ahead as you leave those trails behind. That's a master piece 'Dr.Robert Schuller' - A spritual and Mind trainer, I would say! A good reading 'Hour of power' to read and self improve.	2002-06-14
US	49322932	R1B2QMU47RCQ1O	0671776800	218610853	Paradise (The Paradise series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Almost Paradise!	Judith Macnaught books are all just great picks and this one, Almost Paradise - How could you ask for more? Its just absolute piece. If you read Almost Heaven &amp; Kingdom of Dreams, this one sure will spiral you with the sizzling romance. Its an emotional roller coaster with feelings gripping to end and passing through phases of business and betrayal. Passionately in love, the romantic hero is Matt who is out for love of Meredith and there is intense love. The lowly mechanic of Indiana steel mills dares to fall in luv with Meredith, only offspring of President of Bancroft &amp; co.As JM grips with the story, Meredith suffers a miscarriage and anger of her dad. Meredith is forced to face Matt and there is tension, suspicion and all those bitter memories on fore. With so much drama in the novel, JM glues to make you read the plots interestingly. No wonder, the climax of the book is always a happy ending but its the expressive emotional outpours which spur emotions. After eleven years, JM brings Matt &amp; Meredith meet to decide their fate making marvellous reading and amazingly good pick on a nice summer day. JM books are always the best romance I prefer to read after Mills n Boons &amp; Barbara Cartland.	2002-06-11
US	49322932	R39UXN0WSDR6WT	0671723650	132993260	How to Win Friends & Influence People	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Impressive soul	I been impressed with the Dale Carneige book 'How to win Friends &amp; Influence People' ever since I read this book. It's a great possession and an asset - Get updated before you are Outdated! The book has remained the best in series of understanding human nature with the tips n tricks of the winning edge. I recommend this book to all who live with the hopes to reach the skies and shine with success. Money alone does not matter but its the very essence of human relations that bridges the gaps. The book provides not only information but is an attempt to form new habits to stay tuned with life. Carnegie believed that financial success is 15 percent due to professional knowledge and 85 percent to the ability to express ideas, to assume leadership, and to arouse enthusiasm among people. The book teaches the very skills to follow the principles and be a leader without a wee bit of resentment. Co-operation and how to deal with people, being a good conversationalist with the power of voice and interest people is jotted down by Dale Carneige in an amazing way. People apt to make mistakes but how to admit it and stop criticizing is a way to win friends. Nobody likes others to be bossy or take orders but in situations that arise, Dale figures out ways to tackle with techniques. How to win friends is a handy guide for every person, especially business people and should be on top charts in home library or work place. A wisdom book for healthy human relationships you can't ignore to read, after all. Apart from 7 Habits of Highly Effective People, How to win friends is a 'Sure Pick' Enjoy!	2002-06-10
US	49322932	R29N8IEP5AOMZS	0671776096	869998580	Whitney, My Love (The Westmoreland Dynasty Saga)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	An Affair of the Heart	An all time Excitement with the thrill of falling in love with a Duke of a part of a world is Judith's cast of a dream style Romance. Judith has gripping themes and Whitney, My Love is no exception. A feel of a teenage crush and a harsh Dad packing her off to Paris in care of her Uncle n Aunt,Whitney blossoms into a beauty only to be the darling of the Duke of Claymore! Whitney is in trance of her teens crush but Duke Clayton Westmoreland is all out to win her heart in every possible way. Whitney is forced to marry the Duke and leave Paul because of her Dad's financial situation. Whitney is witty n independent nature who hangs on her own and the plots by Judith Macnaught are her exclusive style of writing. The Duke shows his anger and the rising passion for her is a page turning. Whitney, My love is about the 9th Duke of Claymore as Kingdom of Dreams is the 1st Duke of Clamore but the similiarity is somewhat close in characters as passion reigns strong in both books. Macnaught's stories are anyways, so exciting, romantic and ultimate stories 'Made for each other, Dreams turn true' sort that one could not resist reading the books - Of Coz when there is lot of Leisure to fill up the Spaces. A happy ending with happy tears n all cheers. Enjoy!	2002-05-28
US	49322932	R2GS4XZ4V0E2LM	0415284708	115923295	The Shade of Swords: Jihad and the Conflict between Islam and Christianity	Books	5	14	30	N	N	Ink of a Scholar is Holy than the blood of Martyr!!!	Prophet Mohammed's wisdom 'Ink of a Scholar is more holy than the blood of Martyr' is right said! Great Faith, Great Reveleations, Great Concern, Great Efforts and a `Bold, Outspoken  Voice by MJ, the Shade of Swords traces the roots of Jihad - `It is not an invitation to kill; it is an invitation to die'. Islamic faith demands in  a holy war, the blood of faithful in the defense of their faith and this is Jihad. The war that started years ago whose roots were deep as MJ traces the origins of Jihad, a research of hard work that has a fantastic, gripping story journeying across across centuries and continents, written after the fall of Moscow. The triumphant rise of Islam under the Prophet Muhammad when angel of God Gabriel read the word of God. Allah's messenger said `Paradise is under the shade of swords' and the spirit of Jihad entered Islam at Badr, Arabic jhad, meaning exertion or striving. As Mj puts it, \\"A holy war, the war of righteousness, the struggle against tyranny. A passion indifferent to the fate of battle because the jihadi wins either way: in the long run, the war will be won; and in the short run, death will bring martyrdom and paradise. A jihadi strife to cleanse one's soul as no martyrdom is possible without inner purity\\"  MJ has all the way a gripping history of Islam, the collapse of the Mogul and Ottoman empires to the modern struggle for Palestine. 'The West's next confrontation is definitely going to come from the Muslim world. It is in the sweep of Islamic nations from the Maghreb to Pakistan that the struggle for a new world order will begin.' Says MJ and reveals the History as anger and a literature of revenge that divided India and created Pakistan.MJ refers to contempts lucidly expressed by Bengali novelist like Bankimchandra, Mrityunjay and Saratchandra Chattopadhyay. These Bengali infused hate and triggered differences. Saratchandra in his speech and books said \\"Hindu muslim unity is a bombastic phrase, muslims were not satisfied merely with looting, they destroyed temples, demolished idols, raped women. The kings couldn't liberate themselves from these loathsome desires and even King Akbar was no better than notorious emperors like aurangzeb. Muslims were barbarians....And the school text books covers up these lessons!<br />Further MJ says about the partition and states, the muslims in the world to enjoy sustained democratic liberty are not in Pakistan but who remained in India and they pose more problems than anyone deserves, 150 million of them, paying price for their ancestors and success of muslim league. Witnessing the Babri mosque destruction in 1992, the resultant riots have become mob barbarism with administration giving a friendly nod to violence, fresh in Gujarat recently. MJ further pens down that Osama emerged out of Afghan experience with unshakeable conviction and later Al Qaida, The Foundation, became the vehicle for his politics, he as new caliph who would safeguard Muslim interest across the world. And as we witness the terror today, Ramzi Ahmed Yousef who dreamed of toppling twin towers was arrested and yet, the towers came down over eight years because that dream was not arrested and such organizations like Taliban and Al Qaida, without a government or a country befall terror and fight a jihad against the worst enemy America who declared war on Taliban and though the defeat of Taliban was complete, Osama Bin Laden is mystery but the spirit continues as a volunteer in the war in Afghanistan says `Jihad continues, if allah chose me to die, I would have been in paradise eating honey and watermelons and grapes...as promised in quran but my fate is to remain amid the unhappiness here on earth.<br />Mj concludes `Defeat is only a setback in the holy war...and the Jihad continues, the fire that is visible on the muslim streets across the world today is fuelled by a perception of injustice and exploitation by the west. When I read some excerts of 'What went wrong' by Bernard Lewis, Shade of Swords is the answer to 'The superior West'<br />SoS, (Call it Save our Souls too!) An Excellent reveleation of History, Religion, Political ploys and research, work written non-biased to any religion and depicting facts as they are, MJ is undoubtedly a genius Editor Journalist,  who has balance views and this book stands `Best' among his many other four popular books namely Riot After Riot, India: The Siege within, Kashmir - Behind the vale, Nehru - The Making of India.Shade of Swords is the answer to 'The superior West' <br />SoS, (Call it Save our Souls too!) An Excellent reveleation of History, Religion, Political ploys and research, work written non-biased to any religion and depicting facts as they are, MJ is undoubtedly a genius Editor Journalist,  who has balance views and this book stands `Best' among his many other four popular books namely Riot After Riot, India: The Siege within, Kashmir - Behind the vale, Nehru - The Making of India.	2002-05-26
US	49322932	R29OLHTGD05CAK	0446677450	156348512	Rich Dad, Poor Dad: What the Rich Teach Their Kids About Money--That the Poor and Middle Class Do Not!	Books	4	2	3	N	N	It's Money, Honey!	Financial Literacy is a part never taught in schools! The Rich Dad emphasis on Pg.46, his point of view that 'The poor and the middle class work for money - The rich have money work for them' In the opening chapter, Sharon Lechter is challenged by her son when she tells him 'If you don't graduate from college, you won't get good job and if no good job, how would you plan to get rich' The boy argues that he looks for new answers - Bill Gates or Michael Jordan never went to school yet they are Rich! And so it clicks to Sharon and Mike to realize their changing jobs which would never make them scale Richer as they expected. Getting impressed with the Cash flow of Robert, the book finds way into thoughts and actions covering up Lessons :<br />1. The rich don't work for money.<br />2. Why Teach Financial Literacy?<br />3. Mind your own business?<br />4. History of Taxes and power of corporations<br />5. The rich invent money<br />6. Work to learn - Don't work for money<br />The educated Dad's personal financial statement determines the life of someone in the rat race, his expenses seem to always keep up with his income never allowing him to invest whereas the logic to a Rich Dad's financial statement speaks of assets generating more income and re-investing after covering the expenses. Result is the Richer get richer. It's thoughts that concerns 'Taking risks and greed, a common attitude' that scales for higher earnings. The Book is not a Business Lesson but a thoughtfully written wisdom to come out of the 'rat race' and plan to be rich with the changing new waves. Right Book for every parent and all who dream to be Rich!	2002-05-25
US	49322932	R1N2S57PKGRELC	0671646788	720804858	The Magic of Thinking Big	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Think Big! Mind is Thought Factory....	\\"As one thinketh in his heart, so is he\\" Think big and you'll live big. You'll live big in happiness. You'll live big in accomplishment. Big in income. Big in Friends. Big in respect.Magic of Thinking Big by Dr. David Schwartz is full of promises to turn dreams true! When one starts dreaming, thoughts create action and this is when one realize 'Thinking power' is more effective than one's intelligence! All one need to make another big Resolution is to eliminate the word `Impossible' which is a failure word. \\"Won't work\\", \\"Can't be done\\", \\"It's useless\\", \\"It's stupid\\" and such thoughts should never let a person shrug off helpless but instead \\"I-can-do-better\\" attitude makes a big difference. The author says, Some people have a belief \\"You-can't-get-ahead-so-don't-bother-to try' but this is absolutely a lame excuse and if you `Think Big', there is a sure way that lets you climb a few steps grabbing in the moments of opportunities and experiences that come your way. And believe me, I adopted this Magic - Sure stepped me up 'Thinking Big' Dr. Schwartz cover all factors, to sum up:<br />1.Be likeable. Practice being the kind of person people like. This wins support and put fuel in their success-building program.<br />2.Be friendly. Take initiative and introduce yourself to others at every opportunity. Scratch out the negative influence from your records.<br />3.Accept human differences and limitations. All people cannot be perfect. So, don't anticipate perfection and don't criticize. Each person has a right to be different.<br />4.Tune into `Good Thought Station' Think Positive.<br />5.Practice conversation generosity. Act like successful person and you are! Encourage others to talk. Let others talk to you about his views, opinions, and accomplishments. Just Ask! In process, you get your own answers to your questions too.<br />6.Practice courtesy. This makes others feel better and you feel better too.<br />7.Don't blame others when you receive a setback. This will lose your own determination to face challenges.n determination to face challenges.	2002-05-14
US	49322932	RAK1QU2RZF1NE	0380603926	742020309	When Bad Things Happen to Good People	Books	5	18	29	N	N	Good People Turn to be Better humans Indeed!	Harold Kushner's book has an insight for a heart touching, warming feeling for those who got to be content with Suffering. Some of the other time in life, we suffer. Why do we have to suffer? Why do Bad things Happen? Why Me? These and many questions surface our minds and that's when our 'Faith' is challenged. Why do we turn to the same God who makes it happen? The author came to see god when he faced the worst trials in his life of having lost his son Aaron when he was fourteen. God weeps with us and would not abandon us and can fill the deepest needs of an anguished heart says Harold. The story of job inspires and builds the strength and courage. Harold provides invaluable reassurances and his words are source of comfort in times of bad things happening just out of the blue. His logic that when bad things happen we dump our anger on others or turn it on ourselves. Sometimes angry on God. Why me? And then referring to Cain killing his brother Abel in a fit of jealousy...all through Harold soothes the mind to relax and be at peace saying 'God can't do everything, but he can do some important things' This ticks the mind Fate, not god, sends us the problem. If we are weak, we get angry, overwhelmed. Its faith strong all the way and God rewards in his own fashion; Knows much better what he has to do. A must book to be read by all people in trouble, no matter what their religios faith. Indeed, When Bad things happen, be positive, What happens, happens for good. Good People turn to be Better.	2002-05-12
US	49322932	R2ABCZOWE9XS2E	0439249546	667539744	Harry Potter (4 Volumes set)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Gripping Fantasy	Harry Potter Books are a gripping fantasy tales not only for the kids but for all who dare to dream and would love to swim into fantasy world! Being a great fan of Enid Blyton, Hardy Boys n Nancy Drew, when I heard of Harry Potter, I was bit uncertain whether kids could adopt to the Style reading of J.K.Rowling books. But the moment I got this set and paced to race to track the fantasy, it dawned to me that these are the magical witty adventure excitement that are make great readers n recites. Harry, Ron n Hermione characters portray courage and positive flow with signs of inner strength. Challenges come their way to face wizards n dangers in fantasy world and they fight their way out for a rosy end. There is humour, the language flow and the right stuff right there for keeping you stick to turn the pages in awe excitement n fun. However, I would recommend educators n parents to make the kids dive into fantasy work lest their imagination run dry. And encourage to write the reviews n send review letters to friends about the tales which would further make them read more Harry potter or Enids.Also this would ensure that the books is really read! So, pick them cool n let this be a Reading experience n pleasure, after all! Great picks!	2002-05-06
US	49322932	R2OYTZDHUK5DNZ	0141301155	959905089	Charlie and the Chocolate Factory (My Roald Dahl)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lots of Chocolates...	Raold Dahl is a true star of Children's Literature.Charlie and the Chocolate Factory is a singular delight, crammed with mad fantasy, childhood justice and revenge, and as much candy as you can eat. Willy Wonka opens the gate of his Chocolate Factory to the five 'Lucky Winners' who finds the golden ticket wrapped in a Wonka Chocolate. Charlie is poor and gets only one Chocolate bar a year! One day he finds a dollar bill in the snow and buys himself a chocolate bar. Luck favours him as this contains the fifth golden ticket. The fantasy tour of Charlie begins with the other four winners - Mike Teaves who lives for TV, Veruca Salt, a brat who lives with bratty parents, Violet Beaguragarde, a girl who love gum and Augustus Gloop who would just eat anything! Dahl portrays incidents with resourcefulness and humour. Violet blows up into a blueberry from sneaking forbidden chewing gum and Agustus Gloops is carried away on the river of chocolate he would not resist. They have great Adventures and in the end, Wonka gives a big 'Surprise' to Charlie.<br />This is an all time Dahl Classic for all Ages.<br />'Choice Pick' - Especially for 8-12 years:-)	2002-05-05
US	49322932	R13ERCK2ZI1W0B	0515094773	640993386	Vows	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Magical Moments to cherish	Vows is the only Book I recently read of Lavyrle Spencer and truly admit that I am sure gonna be a fan of Lavyrle and dig for more books. I read a lot stuff of Barbara Cartland and Mills n Boons but the romance is just unforgettable in Vows. One Kiss could change Emily's life forever...A Tomboy by nature and she goes head over heals in love with Tom, a rival to her father's business.Vows is a Romantic tale filled with passion n promises to keep. Tom made her feel like a woman. The part when Tom and charles had a tiff and Tom had a broken rib, Emily calls in for a doc and than rings up her father. The pages makes you engross with the sweeping romance. The only character I would not like is Em's friend Tarsy. The book is quite warming to read once you pick up and you find Emily's feelings trailing with Tom Jefferson and Charles when finally all is Vows, a commitment and a rosy dreams to share! Pick up for cool summer noon reading.	2002-04-29
US	49322932	RWDX26MZJXC76	0446364762	784898359	The Stars Shine Down	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Stars shine down sparkling...	Stars shine down...its like shimmering sparkling down with the twinkling shine...Sure Sid's book are all great but this one I felt has a theme of a beautiful Lara Cameron who is a self made billionaire whose character in the book revolves round fortune n fame. Interesting to read as Lara struggles to reign into male domain and portrays a ruthless character feeling insecure at times. She has busy appointments for the day and strive to achieve for more as she travels from London to New York and Reno to Rome and when her fortune dwindles, its the pages you never stop to read. At times the theme seems fine but bit too heavy with stepping in of Alder who offers Lara an exciting new dimensions at a price to pay that threatens to destroy them both. A nice book to read to kill time when you have lots to spare.	2002-04-28
US	49322932	R2QKKNMQ88XSEL	0895261901	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	5	11	18	N	N	Inside Scoop!	Emmy Award winner CBS News Reporter, Bernard Goldberg, narrates his  Liberally biased outbursts of the very secrets of the television network media. Bias is bottomless Intellectual corruption revealed by fearless and courageous reporter. Goldberg has revealed the blunt truth, inside scoop of stories and dared to come forward to portray how liberal Bias infuse bias reporting in network television and trigger hindrance to reporting facts. Issues ranging from homelessness to aids, reporters are going over the misinformation of pressure groups they favor, to the harm of honest reporting. Fairness, balanced and integrity disappeared with changing times in network television. There has been one-sided nature of reporting of the news coverage tilting to the left as Goldberg mentions;  which is close minded and journalists honesty have become pawn to liberal opinion. Goldberg tried to voice his say from post to pillar but his critics considered him a disgruntled Reporter and his bitterness with the management made him write the WSJ op-ed story that ruined his career! The television news business is far different from the media print world and far often the primary objective is overlooked with bias reporting in television network. Political correctness in network television creates a sensation ahead of the facts and enthusiasm of the reporters mis-fires the message, often misleading the viewers to create waves over the issue. A recent example is the Riots of Gujarat, the whole print and television media journalists focused on the one major issue and harp over the incidents to raise the heat of news reporting. Balance reporting fell out of gear and the news that shoot and create waves chart to the top and the biggest scoop story of the time would probably not be heard in the evening news. The bias really affect on how people view to see the world!  Goldbergs CBS reporting experience made him opine his voice boldly about the truth that pervade the business and his trials led him to pen down Bias with the opening harsh critics of Dan Rathar who regards criticism of liberal bias as disloyalty and after working in network news for 30 years as CBS reporter Goldberg comes out with Bias with names, quotes, reports n facts. Certainly a pick and a concern for every Journalist in network television or print media, the BIAS by Bernard Goldberg would turn a new leaf in reporting facts.ls led him to pen down Bias with the opening harsh critics of Dan Rathar who regards criticism of liberal bias as disloyalty and after working in network news for 30 years as CBS reporter Goldberg comes out with Bias with names, quotes, reports n facts. Certainly a pick and a concern for every Journalist in network television or print media, the BIAS by Bernard Goldberg would turn a new leaf in reporting facts.	2002-04-21
US	49322932	R1XG8GVWJZKM0L	0553264583	759173555	The Be (Happy) Attitudes: 8 Positive Attitudes That Can Transform Your Life	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Magic rules to be Happy-Attitude Makes a Difference!	Robert Schuller's another Best Spiritual release drawing from the famous section of the Sermon on the Mount, the Bible tales. Rob emphasis on the eight positive mental attitudes that transforms life. Rob says 'Let faith flow freely...and you can climb the rugged mountains, cross the stormy seas and fly on high skies. This is one great book I possess which helps me easen up my spirits when things really fall apart. When mysteries of life encircle you to find the inner feeling 'How to be Happy' inspite of good health, wealth, friends, job satisfaction etc, its a bed side shelf book to peek into the 'Be Happy Attitudes' :<br />1. I need Help, I can't do it alone!<br />2. I'm really hurting but going to bounce back<br />3. I'm going to remain cool, calm and corrected<br />4. I really want to do the right thing<br />5. I'm going to treat others the way I want them to treat me<br />6. I've got to let faith flow freely through me<br />7. I'm going to be a bridge builder<br />8. I can choose to be happy, anway!<br />If you really want to read the 'right stuff' - adopt a 'Go for it' Attitude towards your life and dreams.	2002-04-20
US	49322932	R36RCHKM86TVTO	0553273329	368328912	Tough Times Never Last, But Tough People Do!	Books	5	12	14	N	N	The Tough Gets going when the Going gets Tough!	No wonder Rober Schuller with his inner wisdom shares his thoughts to show you how to build a self image with positive thoughts and know the truth that after every storm, there is a calm! Every problem has a solution. Tough times never last..is a Gift giver to self and others. It's the attitude to get going when the going gets tough as you face the challenges in life and struggle to face obstacles that rob your mental or physical peace. I gave this book to my hubby during his worst trial period of life in his career and he came out with positive influence to be a sane and wise decision maker to start a business on his own and reach to heights of success today! There is always a twist n sharp turns in life and Rob's book with his dynamic principles in life makes you build positive self image and turn out to be a success. Life isn't a tempest nor a midsummer night's dream, But a comedy of erros, Take it As you Like it!!! A Spiritual Motivation - another bedside shelf book to peek-a-boo to boost your spirits. After all, tough times never last, tough people do!	2002-04-20
US	49322932	R2KYUBFV1009JA	0553247042	608405439	Tough-Minded Faith for Tender-Hearted People	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Faith is Deciding, Daring and Doing the Job!	Faith is a hope that keeps you surfing on the waves on a sea of storms in life...it's deciding, daring, challenging and doing the job striving to reach the goals...One of the best book of Robert Schuller with 366 Motivational Faith Inspirations & truly gem to live upon! This book is one of my fav' and I decided to write down the selected 'Faith Gem's from time to time ... Every Inspiration turns a leaf with tough minded faith to a positive note for successful living. Robert Schuller gives the inner sight to face challenges and come out unscathed with tough minded faith. Based on truly inspiring Bible verses, Rob has definitely proven a best seller apart from his Book 'Tough times never last tough people do'.Rob has attempted to release the emotional powers of human being with Bible verses in the 366 motivations and its like a Spiritual fitness program that makes you possess the surviving power to experience the incredible, powerful truth in the promise of Jesus Christ 'If you have faith as a mustard seed, you will say this to a mountain...'Move' and nothing will be impossible for you' (Matt.17:20)<br />Yeah..Tough Minded Faith for tender Hearts...Sure, Another Bible or a Gita, Pick it up and weave into the fabric of your daily life!!God Bless You!	2002-04-20
US	49322932	R1KVJPFFTOHFIE	0553281828	143059143	Success Is Never Ending, Failure Is Never Final: How to Achieve Lasting Success Even in the Most Difficult Times	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Dreams turn true	Many are not fortunate to view the 'Hour of Power' show but Robert Schuller's books are indeed great Spirit builders and I always possess them as a treasure to read, share and part the wisdom to let life to bloom to the fullest. Many a times we fail in our endeavours, face conflicts, let down, get hurt n pain, relationship hang ups or any down-time set backs in life. All through the way, its attitude that makes a big difference! It's during such times, we need to view life in a positive mode of way to turn every dream into a possibility with hope and faith. Rob has practical view when he focus on 'Failure is just a bend in the road, not a dead end' It's knowing how to nurture and cultivate possibilities, pull out from negative attitude and turn dreams to reality! You have a vision and Success is never ending, Failure is never final...Another 'Must' pick by your bediside on the shelf!	2002-04-20
US	49322932	R225DK59URZGF4	0446357421	997100115	If Tomorrow Comes	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Sid's the Best ..If Tomorrow Comes....	Sidney's most intriguing Heroine and an imaginative plot - If Tomorrow Comes is all about Tracy Whitney 'My Love' who bubbles around merrily while you devour the book happily! Yeah, Sheldon is my top fav and I read all his books which are just great but this one is a page turner that never makes you stop reading again n again! Smashing, lovely Whitney faces hardship and revenge. Sid has efficiently portrayed the character of Tracy Whitney, the beautiful romantic woman, an idealistic who passed through trials in life. When her mom Dorris Whitney  commited suicide, Sid express the emotions of Tracy deeply live all through the pages when Leiutenant Miller informs her and she reaches to find a note left by her mom! If Tomorrow comes is Sidney Sheldon's Best ever pick you can choose and enjoy the scoop of romance, money game, adventure, thrill and emotion.	2002-04-18
US	49322932	R3BZZPGFNGJGKB	0451160193	132801318	Fools Die	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Bad Men consume Power, lust, violence & corruption	Its almost long time I read Fools die but my memory shoots back to the thrill and excitement while I read this book of Mario Puzo, the very name that remained alive on back of my mind! It portrays a sinful side of an exceptional good person. Its all about the flawed choices of life - How people become consumed to lust, power and violence in a city like Las Vegas, New York and Holly wood. Its a page turner as you read through the pages with the main character John Merlyn and the scenes behind the publishing house and movie production in the mid of the book. Osano, Artie and Janelle indulge in a bad game of lust n kill n hook to series of scenes thru the story with the sex scenes more pitchy to read tilting away from the grip to read. Overall, its a great book which I possess and Mario Puzo 'The Godfather' is another one but this one is killing in the time when you really want to read and explore...	2002-04-07
US	49322932	R1LDC4ACXR4IH6	1400045053	37037227	The Deeper Wound: Recovering the Soul from Fear and Suffering, 100 Days of Healing	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Scars of deep wounds with recent riots in Gujarat......	The scars of deep wounds are not yet healed when terror knock down the WTC Towers six months ago and here again, the endless natural and man made catastrophe leaves its trails of unforgetful memories of deeper wounds -  trauma and hurt with recent Communal Riots in India and Earthquake in Afghanistan. Deepak Chopra in Deeper Wounds describes the emotional states that people go through after a traumatic event so as not to get a person mired with stages of fear, anger, anxiety, shock, helplessness and depression. Deepak uses the perspective to spill off hate from the heart to scratch off the emotional wounds. The author explains that healing yourself comes in two stages-first releasing the energy of suffering, then replacing it with the soul's energy. In the face of tragedy, the first section of the book defines suffering as painful and way of life to a `Hundred days of Healing', daily assertion, exercises, lesson plans and insight to sparkle up the spiritual flame to heal the wounds inside. Deepak's book is in response to the affected people in the tragedy of the twin towers, a portion of the proceeds earned by the author and publisher would be donated to Red Cross and charities on humanitarian grounds. A deeper wound is an exceptional book that raises psychological and spiritual issues raised by the attacks at WTC. Chopra deals with spiritually acceptance of `Where was God when you need him most?' by helping to understand and cope up with trauma situations and overcome negative emotional hurt to restore strength and faith back to gear. He believes and pens down that evil is a form of egoism and describes the power of compassion and awareness. I wish Deepak would once again inspire, encourage and heal the pain of victims of Communal riots in Gujarat and help them tackle to overcome emotional outbursts of hate, waning tolerance, ego, anxiety, fear and violence. A human relationship is on threshold of shattering faith and during these times, Religious differences blur the image of God's world of peace.the image of God's world of peace.	2002-04-07
US	49322932	R11EU653MNNAO3	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	4	9	17	N	N	Quite Practical Wisdom!	Men are from Mars and Women from Venus is a practical guide to improve communication and getting along better in relationship. Men and women are born with differences and the very fact that Eve's desire right from the Temptation garden of Eden made men and women explore the relationship endlessly. Couples need to accept the differences, tune in for better relationship by improving communication, caring and understanding. The author focus on the ego, pride and hurt issues arised from negative thinking of the partners. He explains various situations, examples and solutions for effective communication, action role and adjustments when a couple encounters anger, insults, fights, bickerings, humiliation or the sort.  When a woman offers unsolicited advice, she has no idea of how critical and unloving she may sound to him. Her criticism ways do offend and hurt and these are the times men needs her loving acceptance. When a woman tries to improve a man, he feels she is trying to fix him! He thinks he's broken. He is humiliated! She thinks she is helping him to grow or showing her territory ways. Women tend to have mood swings, high jinxed sometimes and its when Life really stings! Men rule his power, often unperturbed to the emotions of women, sometimes bad communicators as John says, the differences between the two calls for a resolve to misunderstandings arisen which leads to broken hearts in an affair if not practically taken care. John's book is indeed a practical guide to accept the differences and walk hand in hand to chase the blues away in life. Its afterall, wavelengths that need to match!	2002-04-05
US	49322932	R2E4C2BOJI4PVT	0060199903	882566110	The Impossible Just Takes a Little Longer: Living with Purpose and Passion	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Miracles Happen!!	When I read this book, I was so overwhelmed with the courage and determination of Art Berg and tried to search more for his video/audio tapes on his motivational speeches... Art Berg lived in Utah with his wife and two kids.<br />The Impossible just takes a little longer imparts lessons about life, fear and passion. Berg recounts his harrowing and inspirational life's real story how he encountered trials in life. Frozen with fear and frustration! Art Berg met with an accident while he was on his way to see his fianc&eacute;e. His car skid the road and he broke his neck leaving him a quadriplegic. Doctors imposed limitations of life on Berg that he could not walk, be confined to a electric wheelchair without holding a job and can never have kids. Berg had his will power and determination to fight against all odds, set out in his hand powered wheel chair to be Motivational speaker round the world giving more than 150 speeches each year. An Award winner Hall of Fame Art Berg through his own inspirational journey back to a mobile, satisfying goal to help and heal the beaten and broken up hearts. Success did not come to Berg without deep struggles as he faced discouragement, anger, frustration and sometimes overwhelmed uncertainty in life. As he faced a physical paralysis, he realized that thousands of people are emotionally paralyzed feeling beaten, lost by fate, unfulfilled ambitions and got paralyzed with life's situations. Art has inspired and motivated people with lessons to those who are frozen and gripped with fear and frustration. He said `Don't let a bad day turn into a bad life' and believed that it takes time to make Miracles happen! Adversity does not lead from our ambitions but bring closer to them, said Art. Among his other books `Finding peace in troubled waters' and `Some Miracles take time', both of them are motivational picks. Art Berg had unconquerable spirit and his love for life itself will be a source of inspiration to many a souls!	2002-04-04
US	49322932	R3C4NZ27S0UC2V	0609805231	271579697	How to Know God: The Soul's Journey into the Mystery of Mysteries	Books	4	7	10	N	N	Mysterious God....	The rainbow of God's promises is always above the trials and storms of life. It's the strong faith that keeps the hope to keep one surfing on a sea of storms. Deepak has always been a gifted spiritual trainer and through his books spread the message to attain Spiritual path with faith, facing the grounds of reality. With the concept of `Dada Bhagwan's preaching of `Who am I', Deepak Chopra relates the seven point `Who am I' picks of God as `Protector, Almighty, God of Peace, Redeemer, Creator, God of Miracles and pure being `I am' Deepak narrates the mystery of How to find God and who am I, how I fit in my existence and why we  vision God in different ways. Prayer on lips brings closer to God and when things go haywire, God is remembered in good and bad times. Deepak puts it as God is not a person or thing but a process and anyone can believe in him, irrespective of faith, mysteries, nation, caste, creed or religion. All sort for his blessings and seek favors and protection against danger of life. They pray for courage in hour of conflict, comfort in time of grief, guidance in daily concerns. They release pangs of conscience. Deepak's book is just the right pick if one wants to find out the mysteries of Who I am and shrug off the evil, ego, hate, ignorance, violence and so on.	2002-03-31
US	49322932	R21P5QRC2TLH1X	034541344X	109271141	The Art of Forgiving	Books	4	3	28	N	N	Healing the Soul!	Gautam Buddha said \\"For hatred does not cease by hatred any time; hatred ceases by love\\" and so this book itself is so amazing that shows the art of Forgiveness that can heal the soul! One really needs to develop the art of 'let go' and 'forgiveness' to shrug off the blues and the author indicates techniques on How to forgive when you really hurt. Forgive and forget is the key to vent down the anger bubbling inner self as conflicts never bring in good feeling. If you are reallyn stuck up in the heart and need to control the mind, read the book and adopt the plus techniques to develop the art of forgiveness.<br />Bhagwad Gita says \\" buddhir jnanam asammohah, ksama satyam damah samah, sukham dukham bhavo bhavo, bhayam cabhayam eva cha. Ahimsa samta tusti, tapodanam yaso yasah, bhavanti bhava bhutanam, matta eva prthag vidhah\\"<br />(in short means, the qualities of human beings are all created by the lord Krishna.These qualities of intelligence, knowledge, freedom from doubt and delusion, forgiveness, truthfulness, control of senses, mind, happiness and distress, birth, death, fear, fearlessness, nonviolence, equanimity, satisfaction, austerity, charity, fame and infamy are all to be on guard.)<br />Ksama, tolerance and forgiveness, should be practiced. one should be tolerant and excuse the offenses of others. Then there is peace, then there is love and when there is love, Miracles Happen! Lewis, the author has really made great efforts to focus on forgiveness in the book but overall, its more the topic selection that's really necessary in today's time.	2002-03-27
US	49322932	R1HAUIOKPSLJQM	157851486X	958534701	Primal Leadership: Realizing the Power of Emotional Intelligence	Books	5	1	7	N	N	Emotionally Sound Bytes	The control board 'Emotion' requires balanced computerised system programming of Thoughts and Actions. How Powerful are emotions that override circumstances with ease! The author focus on four domains of emotional intelligence - self-awareness, self-management, social awareness, and relationship management. At a workplace, Management always stands at cross roads and is hard to understand but you got to slowly convince coz they too need to be Savvy in some areas too. In Primal Leadership, the author emphasis on 'smart leaderships' to cultivate emotionally intelligent savvy leaders.<br />The development of the four EI competencies initiate leadership qualities that call attention to vision for their organization restricting the commanding and authority style which hinders pace setting reach. The author Daniel Goleman discuss on the research done with Executives who render real life examples. The leaders do need to nurture good feelings and develop human relations in those people whom they lead. Though the concept remains the same like in 'Emotional Intelligence', Daniel Goleman implies to repeat the same rule. Most successful leaders are emotionally intelligent but yet remains problems to tackle with new ideas, diversed fields and more and over, Emotionally being stable to balance to lead the organization to par excellence. Communication is the key to success and that is also one factor that misleads many Leaders to stumble the blocks with the correlated managers and staff. Leaders get 'stalled' and hooked off emotionally knocking off the tolerance of the Executives who no longer stick to the rule of 'grudge &amp; grumbles' - No way, flying them off to check out for better prospects elsewhere as we see these days. Daniel's book is an insight to be Emotionally sound and so if you haven't read his earlier book, sure this is the pick! Go ahead, adopt the Leadership styles!	2002-03-26
US	49322932	R15R8ZBODM9EQM	0931580439	365897156	How to Survive the Loss of a Love	Books	5	2	10	N	N	Love rules! Love Your Own Existence, said Osho!	There's a wonderful peace in just knowing that GOD never leaves us alone, And whether we feel he is with us or not, he loves us and calls us his own. His word is our hope and comfort, a refuge when life brings our way those times we need Wisdom, Guidance and Strength to sustain us each day...These are the times of trials in our life when one live to breathe to survive the Loss of Love. I recommend another book 'When Bad Things happen to Good People' by Harold Kushner also which offers provocative and comforting answers to the universal question 'Why me?' above all, had to be the victim? When we are in love, our feelings stir our souls. Love is timeless. It's the memory of yesterday, the happiness of today and the promise of tomorrow. It brings new dimensions in life that makes everything seem worthwhile. And then, when there is hope, there is faith, when there is faith, there is love and when there is love, Miracles happen!This is exactly the book that builds the spirits to accept life as it comes our way and sail smooth to face the situations beyond control. One cannot change the destiny or the ill-fated happenings but sure, one can try to see through the dark clouds of sorrows with love and compassion. One need to develop the art of `let go'.  Drop the ego and resort for forgiveness in a broken relationship but when you lose your own dear family, its a tough time and this is when one need to overcome grief. The poems and the quotes in the book offer comfort and inspiration. This book helps one to cope up with life's worst encounters.	2002-03-24
US	49322932	RR5JB68KNY0YD	0553378589	253928041	Working with Emotional Intelligence	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Steps to enhance success Emotionally!	How we need to over ride our emotions sometimes! Daniel Goleman's book is indeed an insight to cultivate one's mind emotionally. Understanding and raising emotional intelligence is essential to your success and leadership potentials. Daniel selects examples and anecdotes from the Fortune 500 companies which shows the competency to deal with various factors at workplace. The training tools, conflict management, building bonds and motivation, encouragement and inspirations are really necessary not with the IQs only but with the 'Emotional Intelligence skills' which enhance leadership to excel. The author shows the way how to manage feelings, interact, communicate and tackle with the issues in organization. Initiative, self control, optimism are some key factors of personal competency which make the emotional control board of the mind geared up to treat right, care and understand. A must read for every business. Its never an arrogance, ego or pride but be in tune with 'Emotional Intelligence'- Thats the trick of the trades for every savvy Leader.	2002-03-21
US	49322932	R1E5APQN0SOLJX	0684871580	110011583	Germs : Biological Weapons and America's Secret War	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bio Terrorism becomes a Nightmare, Indeed!	A frightening and unforgettable narrative of cutting-edge science and spy craft. In the groundbreaking investigation journalism, Judith Miller, Stephen Engelberg, and William Broad of The New York Times uncover the truth about biological weapons and show why bio-warfare and bio-terrorism are fast becoming our worst national nightmare. Germs shows why advances in biology and the spread of germ weapons expertise to such countries as Iran, Iraq, and North Korea could make germs the weapon of the twenty-first century. Germs sprayed in shopping malls, bombs that let scars in battlefields, plague spread in Times Square and all is a common man's hydrogen bombs, hideous weapons of mass destruction that can be made in a simple laboratory. <br />There are some startling revelations found in the Book Germs and these shows bio-warriors, past and present at their trade. There is the American scientist who devoted his professional life to perfecting biological weapons, and the Nobel laureate who helped pioneer the new biology of genetically modified germs and is now trying to stop its misuse. The Germs focus on former Soviet scientists who made enough plague, smallpox, and anthrax to kill everyone on Earth and whose expertise is now in great demand by terrorists, rogue states, and legitimate research labs alike.  Germs shows how a small group of scientists and senior officials persuaded President Bill Clinton to launch a controversial multibillion-dollar program to detect a germ attack on U.S. soil and to aid its victims, a program that, so far, is struggling to provide real protection. Its Terrorism everywhere! The world combats to fight the fury of man man weapons leading to endless destruction and violence.	2002-03-20
US	49322932	R104Y3QWQHJ4V0	0312206240	900502466	While America Sleeps: Self-Delusion, Military Weakness, and the Threat to Peace Today	Books	4	14	26	N	N	America in Danger - Humans in Danger!!!	While America Sleeps\\" is an engaging, insightful work of comparative history.Life of Americans in Danger! Life of Humans in Danger! A Book by Donal Kagan is the perception of self delusion, military weakness and threat to peace today. Using Great Britain between the wars as a point of comparison for the US today, the authors outline the great dangers faced as a nation. The book refers that US has taken a huge \\"peace dividend\\" and gutted it's military since the end of the Cold War. Furthermore, US foreign policy has been consistently erratic, misguided and low over the same period. When confronted with aggression, US has failed and totally ineffective and a half hearted stand. Bush administration had many of the right ideas about the role of a lone superpower, but failed to implement them. This was due largely to a failure to educate the public, and a lingering \\"Vietnam Syndrome\\" that continues to plague the military. They go on to lambast the Clinton administration for both failing to understand the dynamic of global relations, and for utterly misapplying military force. The Author foreshadows impending doom and the book is thought-provoking treatise on the role of military power in foreign policy.It challenges the lack of will in political leaders and controversially disturbing warning against over reliance on air power and technological superiority. Its time to think 'America in Danger! Life of Humans in Danger!	2002-03-20
US	49322932	R284PJRVMLUDG5	158376156X	885352620	The Influence Edge: How to Persuade Others to Help You Achieve Your Goals	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Influence - The Cutting Edge!	An excellent book, easy to read and understand. A book essential for any organization, big or small. It helps improve and streamline Internal Organizational Network. It provides step by step system to help in work situation. This is a tremendously helpful and eminently practical book. Alan Vengel teaches you the influence skills you need to enlist the cooperation of others, inside and outside the organization, to achieve your professional goals. Vengel offers tips for successful influence in real business situations. The techniques show how to influence without authority, sell your ideas, and build better relationships. The &quot;push-pull energy&quot; concept is impressive. Two very different ways of influencing people and mastering how to influence when and how. The exercises throughout the book definitely show you how to use it to design a very sophisticated and effective influence strategy. Master the artful skill of influence and adopt the techniques in a unique fashion. Its the Time factor and thought management to apply and sure, achievements drive your way to influence and reach your goals.<br />Afterall, Influence makes a Big Difference in Life! So cut the Edge and there, you reach the goals!	2002-03-17
US	49322932	R3329B5UUCIVSM	1879639440	557417538	Bullying Prevention Handbook: A Guide for Principals, Teachers, and Counselors	Books	5	18	21	N	N	BULLY? Worst than Physical Assault	Bullying? Every school has kids who tease, taunt, shove up and beat other kids for no reason at all. Ignored, exulted sort of indirect bullying is worst than a physical assault too that kids face at School or just about anywhere! Bullying has just become of the most underrated but enduring problems in schools today. The cases rise to shoot up and as the survey speaks, it has been a challenging task for the mentors to instill the values of human relationships.Its sometimes the attitude of parents/teachers/adult that fail to instill moral values to the kids.Recognizing degrees of teasing and learning to cope with hurtful teasing are important life skills a child needs to learn. Often bullies become more unhappy and aggressive with age. When a bully attacks kids, they often feel ashamed and refrain from talking about it. Bullying Prevention Handbook offer resources tested and proven creating safe environments for students. The main topics presented by the author are the characteristics of a bully, individual and group interventions at home and at school. Discipline, creating life skills and safe environment at schools is necessary for child development. The Handbook is indeed a good 'guide'	2002-03-17
US	49322932	RAWY4UBNQEE8G	1575666081	312482908	Peaceful Parents, Peaceful Kids: Practical Ways to Create a Calm and Happy Home	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Peace at every doorstep!	Peaceful Parents, Peaceful Kids is one of the &quot;number of points&quot; self-help books that are so popular these days. The opening message that peace in the family begins with peace in the parent clearly moves us in the right direction.Author Naomi Drew has already had a hit along the lines with Learning the Skills of Peacemaking, also aiming Public schools. We can't just place the blame on television, school, other kids, or lack of time, not if we want to actually address the problem. Drew's some of her imagined resolutions are a little too elaborate, she uses concrete, realistic examples. It's important to aim high when you're planning a successful family. Even if you only manage half the book's aims, you'll be much better off. The author breaks the big job of bringing peace to the family down to seventeen points. Parental actions should be guided by love, compassion, fairness, respect, and integrity and nurture these attributes in children. Indeed! Peace is at every doorstep!	2001-11-27
US	49322932	R1TXKUS2GE2J39	1878424114	876583836	The Seven Spiritual Laws of Success: A Practical Guide to the Fulfillment of Your Dreams	Books	5	8	11	N	N	The Laws of Inner wisdom	A book to cherish lifetime. Secrets of making all your dreams turn true. Deepak instills the essence of his teachings into seven simple, yet powerful principles that can easily be applied to create success in all areas of your life. A virtual Reality Toolkit for the 21st century spiritual Traveler. 'Every action generates a force of energy that returns to us, And when we choose actions that bring happiness and success to others, the fruit of our karma is accomplished' says Deepak...so Very true!!<br />When we harness the forces of joy, harmony and love, we create success and good fortune with effortless ease!Tis true, the universe operates with Law of Abundance, giving and recieving are the aspects in life....A must read!	2001-11-17
US	49322932	RDY52I0GBW8PP	0140110267	869876498	Riot After Riot	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Riot After Riot - Witty Brainy Stuff!	A great Writer of all times, Mr. Akbar is an intelligent, witty and a very genius Personality, His focus on the crisis fronts of India, esp. Punjab and Kashmir portrays the real background and emotions behind the crisis. He challenges the Nation's Unity and concerned thoughful analyzing of Mr. Akbar shows a human Brain who is a true Indian. India, The seige within 'Challenge to a Nation's Unity' and 'Nehru the Making of India' are two books which are worth a Buy and Read. Mr. Akbar portrays a cool, calm, tactful approach and his 'Bylines' are a strong concerned relection in Journalism Field too.	2001-11-02
US	49322932	R1JF8OAEOUBAFV	1862047340	312469887	The Book of Wisdom: The Heart of Tibetan Buddhism	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Existence Loves You!	BOOK OF WISDOM - BY OSHO<br />Discourses on Mind Training.This one whispers the Truth. Wisdom you find in words but Truth is in the gaps between the words, in the spaces between the lines. It is a silent, unspoken whisper. Between the lines read, 'Existence loves you' It comes like a fragrance from every page. Osho says it takes courage to find the truth. People are not ready to up their dreams and their dreaming. They are not ready to drop the mind and move into the immediate. Only few people have dared to discover truth...It is risky; it may shatter all that you have known before and you will have to rearrange your whole life. It is dangerous. It may destroy all your illusions, it may shatter dreams. Only Silence communicates the truth as it is. We have God's words and his silence. Ready to journey to the mystical land.......(Journalist Editor Free souls Online 'ilaxi patel')	2001-11-01
