US	49355291	RX2G32A7EM4DP	068984123X	52398462	President George W. Bush : Our Forty-Third President	Books	3	11	19	N	N	Surprised by George W.	This book showed me a whole different side to our president.  I was very shocked to hear some of the stories of his college days and some of his outrageous acts even after he graduated.  His entrance into politics was not always an assured one, as he seemed to have more interests in enjoying his youth.  The author seems to gloss over some things that have a potential to be more damaging to his image than they already are.  The story of how he crashed his car into the garage after his wife criticized one of his speeches was one such example.  I had also expected him to be more successful at business than he is said to be.  Surprisingly, the Bush family has had their share of persecution while living in Texas.  In Texas they were not seen as true \\"Texans\\" and in the schools George W. attended his views were opposite of a majority of the student population.  Given his private school training and Ivy League preparation, it really makes the office of president seem only attainable by those with money.  I was disappointed that there wasn't more information on his accomplishments as a Texas governor but I was pleasantly surprised to find his State of the Union address in entirety at the back of the book.  The litigation details of the 2000 election were helpful in understanding why the selection for our new president had taken so long.  Overall, I would recommend this book to any young reader looking for a biography to read, however, I would warn them that they may have a less respectful opinion of our president after their reading.	2002-08-30
US	49355291	R1WQXTGTB8WJ5T	0064410226	249506824	Joey Pigza Loses Control (Joey Pigza Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	I Love Joey Pigza!	I love Joey Pigza!  Joey is such an erratic, yet heartwarming, character that really has you on his side for the entire book.  As Joey says himself, he's always had a certain way about him that gets people on his side.  As a teacher of both general education and special education students, I have at least one student with Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder, just like Joey, every year.  Never before have I felt so in touch with those students or empathize with their symptoms than I did while reading about Joey.  Joey states plainly that he doesn't have many friends because most of the kids tease him.  Joey also talks about his experiences in school and how about half the class wants him to get better and behave, and the other half eggs him on, so that he'll stop the teacher's lesson.  This was a revelation for me.  I had never made the connection that other students would encourage disruptive behaviors in class for less than pure motives and then turn around and ridicule these behaviors outside of school for being \\"weird\\".  But it certainly fits the characteristics of the typical social interactions with such students.  Joey's mom is such a patient and loving mother who just can't take Joey's antics and trouble that he gets into.  Being a single mom, doesn't make matters better and when Joey is going to spend the summer with his loony dad and grandmother, things just get worse.  Joey's dad is a HUGE disappointment throughout the book as he is given this momentous \\"second chance\\" with the son he left behind to begin a new life.  He yells at Joey while he's playing baseball, he drinks in excess, and is very irresponsible with the role of parenting Joey.  He cared more about Joey brushing his teeth than other essential needs for his son.  Joey wants so desperately to have a father and son relationship with his dad or even just to hold a \\"back and forth\\" conversation.  His dad fails him in so many ways you want to reach through the pages and shake the grown man silly.  Other people in the book accept Joey for who he is, such as his grandmother, even though she has always had a problem with his hyperness.  Leezy, his dad's girlfriend also takes a liking to Joey right off the bat.  Joey's dog, Pablo, takes some abuse when Joey gets a little too excited or forgetful, but his love for Joey is apparent.  In the end, Joey's mom comes to his rescue and Joey is whisked away from his dad.  I was regretful that Joey couldn't make a dad want to change his ways and that Joey had to leave with many more failures.  I look forward to reading more about Joey and hopefully good things start to happen to a well deserved boy.	2002-08-19
US	49355291	R1N8QU7AO7GTKG	0786867647	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Endeared to Me, Once More	I wasn't sure what to expect from one of my teenage crushes turned writer.  Growing up with Michael J. Fox and Kirk Cameron on your walls never prepares you for something real to happen to them.  Even well into adult life they remain that cute face above your bed that you would look up at and hope upon hopes that a miracle would happen and you'd end up marrying them.  Watching Fox on Family Ties, I was convinced he was the smartest, most infallible teenagers I would ever know and so to read some real life facts was very shocking.  A fact such as him dropping out of high school to pursue acting, and not getting his GED until he was thirty some years old, while certainly not shameful, sure was shocking.  The mere fact that he currently has an incurable neurological disorder goes against everything you think about your T.V. heroes.  The sheer eloquence with which he writes is a wonderful surprise.  He has a strong voice throughout the book and this too surprised me.  I had always viewed him as a man of action and not the patient well thought out writer that he presents.  So it was pretty much with these feelings that I continued reading his memoir.  His family information was interesting and his relationship with his grandmother, a special one.  The wild and crazy single life he led was a bit surprising since he had always played such straight and narrow characters.  It was his experience and diagnosis of Parkinson's Disease that had me the most enthralled.  I had no idea it was such an uncommon disease for his age group and his information on the public funding and explanations behind this funding and attention make perfect sense.  The way he has used his celebrity status as a currency is commendable and must have been so difficult.  I loved reading about his lengthy transition from hiding his symptoms from everyone, even his wife, to going un-medicated in front of a panel of senators to show them the true ravages of Parkinson's disease.  I totally understand his reasons and marriage being such a sacred union, I don't begrudge the fact that there are not more descriptions on how his diagnosis effected his wife, Tracy, personally.  In want of telling a complete story this did seem an important overlooked portion.  Perhaps to tell it most correctly, would have taken another novel.  By the end of the book and after seeing the complete turn his life had taken, I again was renewed in my thinking of him as that infallible T.V. character.  He truly is a lucky man that has been made even more endearing to yet another fan.  I would highly recommend this book to any person, any age group.	2002-08-15
US	49355291	R1XYC1E6DL8JM4	0618219153	282490623	Hotel Honolulu: A Novel	Books	3	1	6	N	N	Going to Hawaii?	The main character, who I don't think I ever learned his name, is a down on his luck writer who heads off to Hawaii to run away from his writing and to find a new life.  He ends up meeting the owner of the Hotel Honolulu and gets the job of managing that hotel.  The story really revolves around hotel guests, the owner, Buddy, and his friends and family.  The writer/main character simply records the stories.  When there is no Buddy involved, there is usually no story.  I chose this book simply because I was off to Hawaii myself and wanted something for the long plane ride to and from the paradise islands.  Part of the reason why I enjoyed this book was because of the places the author references that I recognized from my trip to Oahu.  Having never read Theroux's work I wasn't sure if this book was actually a memoir.  There were several times in the beginning where the writer/main character would go into these long spiels quoting different books and basically boring me to tears.  When buddy's friends become involved the story really picks up.  Most of the stories are sad involving death, suicide, abuse, and mistreating but the author states plainly that it is more difficult to write the happy story.  The main character's small daughter sums it all up in the end when she states that all happy stories are the same but unhappy stories are all different.  This collection of pretty sad stories is unique in that some of the characters are connected in some pretty bizarre ways.  You find yourself starting each new chapter wondering who this person is and how they're connected to the characters you already know.  There were a few times when I wasn't happy with how the author had ended a chapter, just leaving a blunt statement about the person's fate, which most of the time wasn't pleasant.  Rose, the writer's Hawaiian daughter was a favorite character of mine.  I enjoyed her child's intelligence and how she became annoyed with adults that were more simple minded than she, even her mother.  I would be unlikely to recommend this book unless someone was traveling to Hawaii and wanted something with a Hawaiian flair to take along for the long plane ride and time on the beach.	2002-08-09
US	49355291	R1QSP8VB58303G	0440222656	691733737	The Horse Whisperer	Books	4	1	2	N	N	More Real World Info Needed at the End	This novel draws you in from the very beginning as you share in a life altering event of the main characters.  You quickly become attached to the family as you witness the pain they are going through and try to understand their different reactions to the events in their life.  To complicate family matters there is a horse that becomes almost demonic and requires the attention of its owners before it kills itself or someone else.  Most of the story takes place on a cattle ranch and horse farm in Montana.  The main characters, Annie, Grace, and Tom, are all there trying to cure the horse and their own hearts of the incredible weight that different losses have left.  Tom, the horse whisperer, has much reluctance in getting involved in this situation but his good character and willingness to help override his intuition and he at once becomes the most lovable character.  Grace was my second favorite character because of her tendencies to be on the negative side of things.  Combining being a teenager with a new life to live with many new hardships she becomes almost suicidal and a central reason for the weakening relationship between mother and daughter.  Not ever having to go through what she went through I'm not sure how things would have played out in my own mind, so I never felt she was to blame.  Annie, mom to Grace, undergoes a great change throughout her stay at the Double Divide and leaves a much more centered, likable, and balanced person.  Robert, Grace's dad, was a wonderful father figure but lay in the shadow of the great cowboy, Tom.  Although he seems to know when to give in I had wished he was a bit more assertive and would come to claim his wife and child from the Montana mountains.  The ending is utterly surprising and even though there is some foreshadowing to the effect, I didn't catch on until it was actually done.  What could have been a real tear-jerker at the end wasn't so much because I was too busy wondering how the real life effects of what hadhappened would impact the family.  I was also trying to understand everyone's new role.  I felt it needed another chapter on the after effects of mother and daughter's last week at the ranch.  A good read, but in need of a little more elaboration on the real life effects of the ending.	2002-07-12
US	49355291	R3SF6LK5WOS98W	0152025057	88210680	Ginger Pye (Young Classic)	Books	4	39	45	N	N	Lovable Characters, Pretty Good Plot	This is a very sweet story that details the happenings as two siblings who get along strangely well go about earning money to purchase a puppy, get and keep the puppy, and then have the puppy stolen from them.  The main characters, Jerry and Rachel Pye get along better than any brother and sister pair that I've ever known.  In addition, they are quite avid readers and seem to think deeper than most children of their age.  My favorite character was Rachel Pye who tended to be on the fairy tale side of most situations and whose \\"reasonableness\\" sometimes wasn't so reasonable.  Ginger, the puppy that gets bought and then stolen is a very remarkable dog and is considered highly intelligent by most of the family and small town in which they reside.  The author does a great job in portraying the dog's thoughts but during the description of the \\"pencil incident\\" I felt she was untrue to the story's previous voice.  Before and after this point in the book she had used Ginger's actions to describe what he was thinking or feeling, but during this incident only, the puppy takes on qualities of personification that don't ring true for the rest of the book.  One slightly irritating part of the book was another main character, Sam Doody.  Sam Doody seems to always come by with a miracle in his pocket.  I wish that Estes had spent a little bit more time developing his character rather than have him come swooping in out of nowhere to save the day on several occasions.  Uncle Bennie, the siblings three-year-old uncle, was a favorite character of mine.  I loved that he was a hero in Cranbury and that he was allowed to do certain things because he was an uncle and even took on certain personality traits because of his young age at having a niece and a nephew.  Mr. Pye is a pretty absent father throughout most of the book and even seems a bit flaky when he is at home.  Mrs. Pye seems to be a very good hearted person, yet very young mother.  The illustrations by the author are very interesting and I was left with the question on whether these were carvings in wood or actually paper/pen illustrations.  They are always true to the story and give a completeness for many of its younger readers.  Overall, this book is a good mystery with some lovable characters and a pretty good plot throughout.  You breathe a sigh of contentment as you close the book knowing that Ginger is in a safe place.	2002-06-28
US	49355291	R1IVZTY9Q4BK45	0743400526	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom of Cassie Bernall	Books	4	1	5	N	N	Her Mark on the World	Wow!  What a refreshingly honest book about a real teenager.  Without reading any of the jacket of the book and from what I had heard about Cassie Bernall and her final words, I was truly taken aback by the real Cassie.  I had expected a novel about a devote Christian that was a role model to her peers and gave her final witness during a horrifying incident at her high school.  What I found instead was a very troubled young girl with very real teen issues yet a heartwarming struggle to gain peace with herself and within her family.  I believe Cassie to share common attributes with many teens.  At times, I was shocked at things her parents had found and I wondered to myself why Cassie would have been chosen to leave such a mark on the world.  Though she had some different outlets for her frustration and feelings there is not one teen who has not had some of the same arguments with their parents and didn't take avenues that she did to outlet her feelings.  However, the mark Cassie has left on the world has more to do with redemption than perfection.  What surprised me the most were the few uncaring things that have been done and said during the aftermath of Columbine.  After all that the families have gone through there is still anger and hatred in a town that I would think should have pulled together and protected their wounded and grieving.  Comments from surviving high school students and Cassie's peers showed that much hasn't changed on the surface of a community which seems to judge much on appearances and have a complicated social order.  An interesting portion of the book was the letter written to the Bernall family from the parents of one of the killers.  While seeming to lack much I'm sure it was a difficult letter to both send and receive.  I would recommend this book to any teenager or parent going through the inevitable tough times in their relationship.  It certainly helps you put a perspective on your own parent/child relationship and even helps you to focus on the importance of repairing and maintaining that important bond.  Like Cassie, you never know when you might have to be ready to go and if you live your life as if you're ready to go at a moments notice then you too will leave your own mark on the world.	2002-06-24
US	49355291	RGR3QYOJV5Z45	0689836023	835820403	Silent to the Bone	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Sold on the Name	I would not stop a child from reading this book, but I also would not find myself recommending this book to the age group in which it was written for.  A twelve-year-old student of mine described it perfectly when she said, \\"It was weird\\".  Connor and Branwell, the main characters are likable enough but the entire plot is drawn out way too long and the ending disappointing.  This story could have been told in a hundred less pages.  I almost expected to find out that the story was true because only life can be this boring sometimes.  The friendship between the main characters is a special one that I would hope young readers pick  up on.  Their friendship prevails during trauma, anger, good times, silence, and other's incorrect viewpoints.  Most children at this age don't know what it means to be a true friend and these two boys set an excellent example.  The part I would find most difficult to read with a young adult is when Branwell tells of his \\"Viagra moment\\" near the end of the book.  The fact that it happens and is a real issue in a young male's life is not what I would consider avoiding.  The way in which the moment played itself out is very unlikely for most of Konigsburg's male readers.  Having a fascination with a  promiscuous European au pair is not likely to happen to most of the twelve-year-old boys I've met.  Another difficult situation is the sexual relationship between the pizza boy and the au pair.  Most parents may not feel comfortable explaining the morals they wish for their kids when they're so blatantly ignored by the teenagers in this book without any real consequences.  The writing gets extremely choppy around the time that Connor gets close to solving the mystery.  A letter is written to the au pair agency and readers and the main character are surprised by the letter since it seems as if a whole sequence of events was missing.  I am truly surprised that critics spend their time ripping apart Harry Potter when there is so much in this book forthem to sharpen their teeth on.  I believe that Konigsburg sold this book on her name alone and I personally would rather read From the Mixed Up Files... twelve times in a row than to read this book ever again.	2002-06-20
US	49355291	RU9U83XRQQOKT	0688174973	717517702	Surviving Hitler: A Boy in the Nazi Death Camps	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Real Eye Opener	This book is written for anyone who wishes to learn more about concentration camps and conditions during World War II in general.  I had been taught the factual information and read the famous Anne Frank novel, but this book was a real eye opener.  I had no idea how well planned the concentration camps of World War II really were.  The fact that the prisoners in most labor camps had triangles denoting their reason for being there whether they were criminals, practiced a religion Hitler opposed, or other social delinquents showed a more sophisticated system than I had fathomed.  The concentration camps were a very lucrative business and it is easy to see why when the prisoners are worked all day, fed almost nothing, save the bread filled with sawdust, and rated on the worth of their labor.  Jack Mandelbaum is a perfect main character.  His hard work and winning personality traits make it easy to see why he managed to stay alive.  He has such a positive attitude and strength unimaginable that I don't think God himself could allow him to perish in a camp.  Jack's mother is a bit impractical during the war as she still wears high heels in a time when some went without shoes.  However, she may have been instrumental in Jack getting his Nazi working papers that in the end saved him from being sent directly to the gas chambers.  There is a bright spot in the book when Jack meets and becomes friends with another Jewish prisoner, Moniek.  They help to sustain each other and are most likely drawn to each other because of their positive outlook in such a dire situation.  This book would be a wonderful novel to be read aloud in a Social Studies or Language Arts class studying the war.  So often the military and strategic parts of a war are examined without the personal accounts which makes it all the more difficult to imagine the horrible things that were done.  There is a wonderful resource section in the back of the book that would be very valuable to educators.  This sectiondetails additional recommended books for grades 6-9, books for older readers, films and documentaries for older students, software, and websites.	2002-06-17
US	49355291	R2FGWHK0C774EJ	0883965208	978345727	Creeds of Life, Love, & Inspiration: A Guidebook of Everyday Wisdom & Thought	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Wonderful for Relaxing and Reflecting	This compilation of poems and lyrical writings is wonderful for time spent in reflection or relaxation.  I purchased this book because it contains a reading that my future husband and I will have read at our upcoming wedding.  The reading, by Douglas Pagels, \\"May You Always Have an Angel by Your Side\\" was at the beginning of the book and is perfect for our special day.  Much of the book continues in this spirit.  Many wonderful writers have been collected here such as Ralph Waldo Emerson and E.E. Cummings.  There are also some surprising entries such as the one from Dolly Parton.  The cover and inside pages have beautiful watercolor and other media paintings.  This book gives many life lessons and a few of my favorite are titled \\"Believe in Yourself\\" and \\"May You Always Feel Loved\\".  There are also some excellent untitled pieces.  The only disappointing thing about this book is that it does have a firm paperback cover and I wish it had a hard cover front and back.  Overall, a wonderful read that will be picked up from time to time to glean a thoughtful word from.	2002-04-14
US	49355291	RN709BWGB04IC	0141304278	866508991	Which Witch?	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Top Notch for us Normal Folk	This novel has a wonderful storyline and is full of zany and lovable main characters.  There is the usual ammo for the religious fanatics set on squashing any creative book that has the slightest tinge of witchcraft.  However, for us normal teachers, parents, and children's book fans this book is top notch.  I was quite surprised at the copyright date of 1979.  I was sure it had been written in response to the Harry Potter pandemonium that hit us much later.  I did notice the printing date of 1999, which helped to clear some of the mystery for me.  Belladona, the main female character, disappointed me slightly when she fell so head over heels in love with the main male character who at first seemed very egotistical and full of himself.  She acts way too lovesick and crazed for the modern day heroines that today's ladies admire.  Arriman, her love, does prove his worth in the end when he shows his tender side and is willing to forsake all for their love.  The ending is happy and leaves the reader wondering as to the future of their favorite characters.  I had guessed at Terence's true character traits but wasn't proven correct until Ibbotson finds the perfect outlet for his abilities.  The witch contest is a wonderfully suspenseful part of the book and keeps you turning the pages as each witch tries to outdo the last one.  Mother Bloodwort and Mr. Leadbetter were two more of my favorite characters that I wanted to see happy in the end.  Overall, this is a first rate book for us normal folk that enjoy creative writing that keeps children reading and keeps the magical world of books alive in our hearts and minds.	2002-04-03
US	49355291	RXEGJVYMCN2ZU	0446601241	366731957	Kiss the Girls (Alex Cross)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Need a Buddy For This One	After seeing the movie first, I definitely see why some portions were left out.  I can honestly say that Patterson scared me.  I would not read this book if you live alone, as the scare factor is too high.  Even after seeing the movie I was skeptical of my guesses at the killer.  I thought that the identification of the killer was dragged out too long and could have been completed shortly after Cross discovers the house.  Certainly the history behind the main character's life work is more complete in the book.  It makes more sense as to why Casanova chooses Naomi after Cross's involvement in another high profile murder case earlier in his   career.  The survived victim, Kate McTiernan, is an excellent female character that the reader instantly gains respect and admiration for.  Cross and McTiernan are an unlikely pair matched to find the killers.  While they complemented each other well in the search efforts, the romantic interludes while they are attempting to capture him were not very appealing.  The reader is left hanging at the end as you wonder what happens to both of the main characters and whether they ever find that someone to hang onto.  Casanova is a very smart and patient killer who's fantasies are incredibly thought out and equally as horrifying.  The most disturbing part of this villain is that he blends in so well with the rest of society and can put on such masks.  I loved the short yet poignant chapters and would recommend this read to preempt the movie, as long as your sweetheart is just a yell away in the next room.	2002-02-19
US	49355291	RDHJ6QGOTTBSP	0440466334	807610489	On My Honor	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One Traumatic Day	This short novel details a very traumatic day in the life of our main character, Joel.  Joel has just finished the sixth grade and is spending his summer with his best friend and across the street neighbor, Tony.  All of the summaries and reviews tell the main conflict which is the death of his good friend.  The reader wonders when it will happen as they get to know each boy better as the story begins.  With a character such as Tony, there are many instances where you are sure the awful act will occur.  Joel's dealing with Tony's death is very detailed throughout the remainder of the story.  While he doesn't respond in exactly the way adults would have  wanted him to, his response if very believable and applicable to his age.   Tony's death has a huge impact on Joel and feelings of responsibility are overwhelming yet not altogether realized until near the end of the story.  The way Joel continues to smell the scent of the river on himself is evidence to the deeply rooted guilt he is feeling.  Joel's parents are excellent role models that don't waltz in with a simple solution or easy answers but simply reassure him hat this will be a tough thing for those involved but that they'll be there for Joel.  The father even takes some blame since he is the one that allowed the boys to take their day trip.  This is a wonderful book to read to a class or to recommend to any child.	2002-02-19
US	49355291	RZM1FNWNKW4FE	0762100508	272730105	Best-loved Cat Stories	Books	4	4	4	N	N	You'll Need a Warm, Furry Friend to Curl Up With	This collection of short stories is certainly one that will make you want to run out and buy a furry, new kitten or at least curl up with an animal to read this book with.  My favorite short story in the bunch is titled How a Cat Played Robinson Crusoe by Charles G.D. Roberts.  This story is enjoyable to read and you find yourself rooting for the poor cat that is left stranded on an island.  This cat is very resourceful and cunning and learns the hard way how important a family is.  This story has a very happy ending that leaves you with a pleasant feeling.  One thing that irked me about this book is that I began each short story thinking to myself, \\"O.K., is the narrator a cat or a human?\\"  This problem could have been overcome by having sections with the fantasy stories separated from the realistic fiction. I found myself disliking the short story titled The White and Black Dynasties by Theophile Gautier.  Perhaps it was over my head or the right context clues were not put in their proper places.  Either way, it's a good thing there were not many selections such as these.  The Cat That Walked By Himself was an enjoyable tale by Rudyard Kipling that I had never read before.  I couldn't wait to find out how the cat would outsmart the woman in the end.  I had no doubt that the cat would get what he wanted, it was just a matter of how.  The only cat missing from this collection is of course the most famous one in the signature red and white striped hat.  Overall this is a pretty good read especially if you have a warm, furry bundle to curl up with.	2002-01-29
US	49355291	R2KR8CGJLH7OFG	0440414806	159975375	Holes	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Surprising FairyTale	Stanley Yelnats is an extremely likable character besides the fact that he is overweight and really didn't have any friends at his middle school.  He is wrongfully accused for a crime and sentenced to serve time at Camp Green Lake, a reform place for boys.  At Camp Green Lake the boys have to dig holes all day in the hot desert sun.  This is part of their punishment and transformation into a productive citizen fit for society.  I was surprised that this book was actually a fairy tale because so much of it seemed like a realistic fiction at the beginning.  The story intertwines with the story of Stanley's great-great-grandfather who gets involved with an Egyptian magic woman.  She helps him to win the hand in marriage of the woman he is in love with if he follows certain steps.  It is the following of these steps that leads Stanley's great-great-grandfather and all of his descendants into trouble.  The two parts of the story come together when things get a bit strange near the end of the book and the connection between the parallel stories is made.  Stanley's relationships with his other tent mates are interesting ones.  The boys all give each other nicknames and have their own pecking order within the group.  Stanley, soon nicknamed Caveman, begins as the last man on the totem pole and eventually moves up in the ranking when he wins favor with the leader, X-ray.  The story of the warden is an interesting one that finally sheds light on  the reason for the digging of the holes near the end of the story.  During the book, Stanley makes friends with Zero, another one of his tent mates.  He also begins to teach Zero how to read and write.  It is through this friendship that Stanley travels away from Camp Green Lake and finally back home.  The route he takes to get there is most surprising and adds more fairy-tale elements to the story.	2002-01-13
US	49355291	R31WLFN5HVX5E3	0684163403	669713059	A Gathering of Days: A New England Girl's Journal, 1830-1832	Books	4	58	60	N	N	Highly Decorated and Very Good	This story centers around Catherine Hall, a thirteen-year-old young girl growing up in New Hampshire.  The journal format of this novel makes it easy to read and wonderful to share with school age students.  Catherine is a tender girl that has lost her mother and must gain instruction on housekeeping skills from her neighbor who is her best friend's mother.  Because of the loss of their mother, Catherine keeps house for her father and younger sister, Matty.  The main happenings of Catherine's exciting year are that her father remarries and brings a new stepmother and stepbrother to come and live with them, interesting events at school, the issue of slavery and runaway slaves, and a loss and new love interests close to home.   One of the most interesting parts of the story is when Catherine encounters a &quot;phantom&quot; of sorts that she aids along his travels.  The correspondence of Catherine to future generations is an interesting beginning and end to the book.  This is a highly praised and decorated book from the Newberry Medal, School Library Journal's Best Books of the Year for 1979 to the appointment of an American Library Association Notable Children's book.  I would highly recommend this book for any read aloud in an age appropriate setting or as a trade book integrated in a social studies curriculum on the time period.	2002-01-10
US	49355291	R1ZLY7JHN4J0NE	0140322566	344891273	The Cabin Faced West	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Great Literary Elements and Enjoyable to Read	This is a great story about a ten-year-old girl that moves from her town of Gettysburg to the western country.  Complicating the fact that she misses her cousin back in Gettysburg is the fact that there are no girls close to her age anywhere nearby.  Ann's two older brothers mostly help their father but they do have time to joke around with Ann and to try to make light of the situation out west. A neighbor, Andy McPhale, makes things more interesting for Ann because she becomes involved in tutoring him and their families learn the true meaning of a neighbor in the western country.  The most endearing part of the book is when Ann is caught having a tea party and when her mother discovers her, the reaction is most surprising.  Near the end of the book, there is a most unexpected guest to the cabin and Ann gets to have a fancy dinner just as she had been longing for.  The ending of this book brings new hope and a renewed sense of sprit to Ann in her new home.  This book is great for students because not only does it demonstrate several literary elements, the keeping of a diary, the writing of letters, and the teaching of reading and writing, but it teaches a bit of history about the west as well.  This book would be great for any Social Studies curriculum as well as any Language Arts book report.	2002-01-09
US	49355291	RU6FIYF2RFKI4	0451178386	867694226	Prince Charming: The John F. Kennedy Jr. Story	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Generation Xer says:  &quot;Good Read&quot;	As a generation &quot;Xer&quot; this book intrigued me for one shallow purpose at the forthright.  John F. Kennedy, Jr. was and will always remain in the public's eye as a sex symbol.  I was glad that the author started out with something familiar when introducing her book.  Beginning with the how and why of John's appointment to the sexiest man alive was something that I remembered and could identify with.  Without any knowledge of the Kennedy &quot;clan&quot; as she terms them, and even less historical knowledge, I could identify with the placement of  John on the cover of People magazine.  While I had heard of President Kennedy's alleged    affairs it came as a shock to see other members of the Kennedy family hold such little esteem for marriage vows. The author really brings Jackie Kennedy down to earth and sure makes me long for her happiness and admire the strength of such a delicate looking woman.  She certainly isn't short on male companionship and some of her relationships leave you wondering why she didn't just go it alone.  The details behind John's relationships are intriguing and the relationship with Madonna was particularly surprising to this reader. The author paints the picture of John being less than the smartest Kennedy but far outshining with his personality, athletic abilities, and Kennedy charisma.  The well-known ending is tragic and left me with the same sinking feeling as I did watching the T.V. hoping his plane would be found or by some chance to find out he hadn't been on board at all.  A good read for anyone wanting more information on the Kennedy family and most importantly on John Jr.	2002-01-08
US	49355291	RP91H1EN3X310	0590567330	266900195	A Light in the Storm: The Civil War Diary of Amelia Martin (Dear America)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Main Character, Time Period Info, and Journal Format	The main character, Amelia, is nicknamed 'Wickie&quot; because of her work in the lighthouse and dealing with the wicks.  Her gender role is very uncommon for the time period as is her political interests.  Wickie's family lives at a lighthouse where her father is the assistant light keeper.  Wickie takes equal shifts with her father and the head light keeper and truly enjoys her position.  Her mother is very unhappy on the island away from her mother and has several physical ailments which leave her cross and quarrelsome throughout the book.  Amelia is also a helper at the local school on the mainland.  She is certainly a character of many   strengths.  She works hard, helps her family, and cares about those around her.  She is a great role model for today's readers.  The journal style format of the Dear America series makes it easy to read and is great for introducing this type of writing to any young student.  The pictures and documents at the end of the book are helpful and lend to the information provided on that time period in America's history.  Amelia's story revolves around working at the lighthouse and on the mainland, becoming active in the political views of the Civil war, and falling in love with a fellow neighbor.  It is a very enjoyable book to read and I recommend it for any student studying the Civil War or that time period in America's history.	2002-01-07
US	49355291	R22B74QL7NOYZD	0451180429	333139516	The Quiet Game (Penn Cage)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Main Character Needed More Faith	I think I fell in love with the main character, Penn Cage, in the first chapter as he took on the role as superdad to his daughter, found recently motherless.  The caring and thoughtfulness he showed while dealing with his own pain was very heartfelt and grabs the reader.  The story line of this novel is definitely captivating.  I especially wanted to read on to find out about the relationship between Penn and his lost love for another main character, Livy Marston.  Another interesting character is Caitlin Masters a newspaper editor that Penn meets along the way.  The reader grows to like her as she proves her worth towards Penn's case at hand.  The court case that Penn is trying to win involves murder, race, money, power, political clout, and even a tinge of sex.  I was a little disappointed when Penn found out an important piece to a puzzle from another person.  I had absolute faith that he could solve the particular mystery on his own, especially with the introduction of Jenny Doe.  When he just &quot;found out&quot; the answer I was a bit surprised that the author didn't have equal faith in Penn's intelligence.  Near the end I read on frustrated because I knew what it would take for him to win the case and it seemed Penn should have caught on by then.  Overall, a good read but the main character disappointed me near the end.	2002-01-05
US	49355291	R12WDC11HMV0EI	006028935X	877803956	The Trumpet of the Swan	Books	2	3	35	N	N	Unrealistic and Stereotypical	This story is very unrealistic as only a story about talking animals can be.  The author repeatedly refers to Louis' lack of a voice as defective.  I would have preferred if Louis was labeled as just different instead of defective.  Some things seem to come out of nowhere, for example, when Sam just figures out that Louis wants to learn to read and write.  Sam must be telepathic!  The first grade teacher that teaches Louis how to read and write, makes it seem so simple.  This could be frustrating for children to see a swan pick up so easily something, that is really complex and involves a lot of interweaving skills.  Louis has a lot of good  qualities, but he seems to get a little depressing.  Some portions of this book are gender biased and stereotypical.  For example, when a teacher talks of girls solving a math problem that involves feeding babies.  Boys can't feed babies?  In addition, the author makes statements such as, musicians always need money.  I tired of these constant general statements of the author's opinion.  The boys camp also supports the naked swimming of children, counselors, and the head master of the camp together.  This seems inappropriate for today's day and age.  I might read this when doing a study of the great E.B. White, but not for it's literary value.	2001-12-27
US	49355291	RTFKLZQYH8T9P	0440029708	111668724	Gift of the Pirate Queen	Books	3	3	4	N	N	O.K. Book	Grace O'Malley is a mini mother figure after her family loses her real mom.  Her younger sister, Amy, is diabetic and needs the constant reminding about not eating too many sweets to overload her system.  Grace's father invites a relative from Ireland to come and stay with them and to take care of the family.  This of course causes problems as Grace had been the motherly figure since her own mom had passed away.  Fiona, the relative, tells Grace the story of Grania O'Malley, the Pirate Queen which is carried somewhat throughout the story.  Grace runs into trouble at school when she breaks her teacher's favorite Christmas bell.  The real conflict of the story is how Grace deals with her breaking of the bell and the character traits she displays.  The newly formed family really comes together when encountering an emergency that really hits home.  I felt this book did not have enough conflict resolution and while the traits of the main characters were believable they weren't what you would call exemplary.   This may be a good book when discussing character education, knowing ahead of time that the problems and solutions are a bit outdated.	2001-12-27
US	49355291	R1YKBVIWEL927K	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bravo!	Bravo!  This is an excellent book and I would read this book aloud to any child near enough to listen.  I thoroughly enjoyed the humor, action, suspense, and well-thought-out characters.  The book jumps right into modern day times with original thoughts, actions, and feelings that many of today's kids may have.  I loved how Harry makes the most of his situation with the Dursleys and ends up prevailing over their doubts in the end.  Harry is such a great role model for today's young adults.  He doesn't follow the crowd simply because it's a crowd.  He does what he thinks is right and it ends up to help him in the end.  He makes friends with people no matter what anyone else says and his friends turn out to be true friends.  I love the magical elements to the story like the thinking cap, that decides which house they will live in, and the animals that bring them messages.  The moving pictures and photos also bring humor and magic together at times.  Hogwarts is a perfectly magical setting for everything to take place and you breathe a sigh of discontent as Harry leaves.  The only slightly negative thing I would have to say about this book is that it gets a little gory in the forest, when Voldemort drinks the blood of the unicorn.  This may be a little unsettling for younger listeners.	2001-12-27
US	49355291	RIIHDOR3KSOBU	0590446517	968996724	Sarah Bishop	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Read Island of the Blue Dolphins Instead	Sarah runs into a lot of bad luck, from losing her dad and brother to being accused of starting a fire and being a witch.  Because of this bad luck, she becomes very independent, learns to fend for herself and develops a hardened exterior.  In one scene she burns a page from the Bible because she finds no way that she can observe it's message.  Sarah and her family encounter much persecution with their beliefs in political affairs and Sarah's later style of living.  After running away, Sarah finds a cave to live in.  She also obtains a musket which serves as her protector throughout the book.  In this way, she is extremely breaking gender roles of the time period and being successful at this. Later in the story, she meets up with a Quaker and he tries to restore her faith in religion.  She leaves him with doubtful impressions on whether her religion will be restored.  She gains the admiration and affection of the Quaker storekeeper with her lack of &quot;femininity&quot; and wildness.  This story is not very feel-good, and not as well written as &quot;Island of the Blue Dolphins&quot;.	2001-12-27
US	49355291	R2U5NW1BWKSRWJ	0590962736	528139782	Voyage on the Great Titanic: The Diary of Margaret Ann Brady, R.M.S. Titanic 1912 (Dear America Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Book, Some Issues	This book is complete not only in the story of the Titanic, but in the description of the time period and lifestyles of both Europe and America.  Three selling points to this book are its diary or journal narrative, the photographs and memorabilia pages and the time line of all the events leading to the sinking of the Titanic.  In addition, there is even a section in the back of the book that is called, &quot;Life in America in 1912&quot;.  This is informative  and interesting for all levels of   students.  This book would be a great way to make the Titanic and the events surrounding its sinking, stick with someone and mean something.  One issue that I have with this book, is that the conclusion makes the reader believe that this story was based on a real person.  Since citations, later on in the book, tell otherwise, this could be misleading for many young people.  This book could certainly be used in social studies, as historical fiction, or as an example of journaling.  The only problem with using it as the latter, is that she does quit writing in her journal, rather than just retire that book.  This makes it seem as if writing down your feelings couldn't help in everyday problems as it did in a huge disaster.	2001-12-24
US	49355291	R2AZ9QXDPZGR6Y	0380732726	393901098	Ramona's World (Ramona Series)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Pretty Good, Lacks Usual Flow	This book details Ramona's fourth grade year.  There is much excitement in her life including a new baby sister, a new best friend, dealing with spelling woes, the liking of a fellow classmate, and the realization that perfection comes at certain costs.  Being a Ramona fan, I can lovingly say that I'm glad she is starting to grow out of certain things.  In one instance she actually thinks to herself that a particular incident isn't worthy of throwing a temper tantrum.  This certainly shows that Ramona is maturing.  Ramona meets catastrophe at her new best friend's house which is dealt with in a very nonchalant manner.  Cleary makes some excellent points throughout the book on the validity of spelling and being able to write clearly, though Ramona oftentimes has difficulty with this.  Ramona's cat sitting turns into a lesson that rings true for many first time responsibility craving youngsters.  The culmination of this story brings you to Ramona's tenth birthday party where she realizes that maybe being perfect has its problems just as being imperfect has its flaws.  This book was a good read even though it lacked the natural flow of a usual Cleary book.	2001-12-24
US	49355291	R1IN1PD0EB79SL	1558744150	992986461	Chicken Soup for the Woman's Soul: 101 Stories to Open the Hearts and Rekindle the Spirits of Women (Chicken Soup for the Soul)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Two Boxer!  (Kleenex, that is)	This is a wonderful feel good book that is definitely a two boxer.  That's two boxes of Kleenexes that you'll need to get through this one!  The very first story sets the tone for the whole book.  This story about a mother and daughter and the love that they shared was the most touching and one of the best stories contained within.  As with any anthology, with many authors, the writing style differs throughout and you may find yourself captured by one author and wanting to get rid of the next author all within the same chapter.  I like how the editors divided the book into sections about love, attitude and self-esteem, overcoming obstacles, marriage, motherhood, special moments, living your dream, aging, finding a higher wisdom, and truths across generations.  This is definitely a book that you want to share with your woman friends and female family members.  There are certain stories that should be photocopied and read often, to capture the feelings they evoke.  Another especially touching story was written by a nursing home nurse about the love of an elderly couple and their struggle to be together their last remaining days.  Two days after the author was located to provide permission to be printed, she died, leaving her loving story to be read by the world.  This book brings out many emotions that in the end make you feel glad to be a woman and respect the richness of all your life experiences.  It sure has made me feel a little less challenged and lot more honored and rewarded that I share commonalities with all of the women in these wonderful stories.	2001-12-24
US	49355291	R1DQ7KLGDUP8KB	0446672211	17564972	Where the Heart Is	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Quirky Characters	This book is full of very strange, quirky characters.  It took me some time to respect and even like the main character, Novalee.  Once I did though, I sat and cheered on her and Americus, and her love for Forney.  Willy Jack was probably my least favorite character.  His demeanor and attributes made me sick to imagine that a girl such as Novalee could have become involved with him.  When he later drops her off at a Wal-Mart store in the middle of nowhere, my original assumptions about him were confirmed.  This story seems to exist in almost another time period.  The fact that there are people out there like Moses Whitecotton and Sister Husband that open their hearts and lives to you is almost foreign in this day and age.  Lexie's story, interwoven because of her friendship to Novalee, was a heart breaking one.  However, Letts gives the reader the endings that they long for.  Willy Jack gets his in the end and Lexie, who seems beat, has a nice, happy ending that is refreshing.  This book has some common threads that hold it together, the number seven, the idea of home, and the importance of friends and family.  This is a great summer read, you won't get too attached to the characters and if you can let go of their quirks, you may be able to see this story happening in real life.	2001-07-27
US	49355291	R2NN2PAML6D2HR	1886330999	186546774	Women & Anxiety: A Step-by-Step Program for Managing Anxiety and Depression	Books	4	11	15	N	N	You Get What You Put Into It!	For some reason I had hoped for this book to have a magic solution or one important thing that I would need to change in order to reduce the level of anxiety in my life.  Had that been true, she certainly would not have needed two hundred and eighty-nine pages to tell me.  Sadly, but now seemingly apparent enough, I will have to work for a decrease in the level of anxiety in my life.  Imagine that!  The first part of the book does a good job of explaining anxiety, going over the symptoms and really getting you clued into yourself and how you show anxiety or what causes anxiety in your life.  It also contains some great advice for women and their lowering self-images of today.  The second part of the book contains a twenty step method of questioning yourself on one issue that is causing you significant anxiety.  Dr. DeRosis has included many examples of using the steps as well as different anxiety producing situations in which people have found themselves.  There were a few situations, such as the one with the emotionally impaired student, that seemed a bit far-fetched, but she still made her point in illustrating the steps taken.  I have readied my response notebook with the twenty questions for my next anxiety issue.  I have no comments on the effectiveness of the program, of yet, but I'm sure it is reflective of one of this books underlying themes.  You get what you put into it.  You put in nothing, you get nothing!	2001-07-25
US	49355291	R287A8E59NL1U9	0439099048	98279658	Katarina	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Book to Stay Up Late For.	This is a wonderfully masterful account of a young Jewish girl and her life growing up in Slovakia during World War II.  I stayed up late waiting to find out where she would hide next and when Aunt Lena and Uncle Teo would come back to bring her home.  Much of the story, Katarina is unaware why she is considered Jewish because her family has never observed the religion and she has been learning Catholic ways on the side.  Aunt Lena is a wonderful mother figure that takes the place of Katarina's real mother and father when they die.  Uncle Teo is Aunt Lena's husband and not quite used to children being around, but an effective provider for the family before he goes into hiding.  There was one part of the story that may need to be read together with a fifth grade level child.  While Katarina is staying at the peasant house of Mariska, she is witness to Mariska and a male friend named Kubo that make noises and touch each other in the storage room while Katarina is hiding out in there.  This would probably warrant a discussion for any curious minds.  Perhaps the most enjoyable part of the book is when she is in the orphanage being taken care of by the Protestant nuns and brother.  It is certainly where Katarina feels the love of Sister Mara and Brother Martin.  Brother Martin begins to share stories with Katarina about the war and it is obvious that he is on the side of the Partisans in Slovakia.  After some exciting events at the orphanage the war finally comes to an end and Katarina heads back to her village to see if Aunt Lena and Uncle Teo are there waiting for her.  This is a great book that I may include in a unit on World War II especially if studying the war from different countries and their perspectives.	2001-07-24
US	49355291	R11C6QBMWMNHHG	0345443284	471049102	While I Was Gone (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	8	12	N	N	Not For a Twenty-Year-Old	This book shocked me, partly because I have never read Miller's work and partly because of the lack of a summary on the book.  Personally, I dislike buying a book without reading a synopsis on the back cover or inside flaps.  I had expected this to be a romance novel with some mystery and intrigue contained.  I was somewhat intrigued by the drama found near the center of the book with the murder of the main character's friend.  I liked, but felt disconnected from the main character, Jo.  Jo was at times a very likely female and at other times did not seem a part of the female gender at all.  The fact that she doesn't particularly care about her appearance or how other people perceive her is one example to her &quot;unfemale like&quot; qualities.  Another example is how she is disconnected from her children.  The portion of the book where Jo lives in the house with four other single people was perhaps the most interesting part of the book.  It also leads up to the climax which is when her friend and roommate is brutally murdered.   Daniel, Jo's second husband, is an interesting character that you grow to love.  Not only for his timely entrance into Jo's life, but for his forgiving, kind, and compassionate nature.  (I loved it when he threw the tomato, showing raw emotion.)  Eli is a former house member that comes back into Jo's life with much surprise.  There is almost the idea of infidelity, but much graver things happen instead.  This is a good book for those in the middle of their lives, perhaps contemplating their former, younger, selves and thinking about their future, older, selves.  Myself, in my mid twenties, did not enjoy it as much as I might twenty years from now.	2001-06-27
US	49355291	R3LGE4VNQJOO9K	0439064872	667539744	Harry Potter And The Chamber Of Secrets	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Marvelous Read for All Ages	This is another great book by J.K. Rowling.  Harry goes off to Hogwarts for his second year at studying to become a wizard.  Much tries to deter him from arriving there and staying there.  A new character, Dobby, is introduced to us and Ginny, the Weasley's younger sister, becomes part of the story at Hogwarts.  There is also a new defense against the dark arts teacher that plays a significant role in this book.  This book seems a bit scarier and a little more gory than the first one.  A warning may be prudent before reading aloud.  There is more mystery to this book as the heir of Slytherin is not identified until almost the last two chapters.  I again echo that Harry is a wonderful role model and suitable for almost any ages.  His qualities of kindness, perseverance, intelligence, and sensitivity are ones to be strived for by all children and adults.  A marvelous read for all ages.	2001-06-19
US	49355291	R31DCXRXZNNO62	0061097101	632958433	The Saving Graces: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Four Great Women = One Great Story	The four main characters of this novel are all very intriguing and special women.  Rudy, one character, is a crazy but loveable woman that sees a physiatrist and endures an overly oppressive marriage.  Emma, another character, is a beautiful journalist that falls in love with a married man after a string of unsuccessful relationships.  A third character, Lee, is a rich, practical, Jewish woman that marries a plumber.  Lastly, there is Isabel who is the motherly, endearing woman that suffers a divorce and more tragedy during the course of this story.  The book revolves around them starting a woman's club that originally was designed to talk about issues and discuss certain aspects relevant to women.  What it turns out to be is a support group for each other to make it through the ups and downs in a woman's life.   Many of the friendships in this book make you long for at least one good woman friend that you can reach out to and share all secrets with.  However, also central in this book are the relationships with men, having a family, and surviving life altering events.  The ending of this book is a tear jerker as one of the members leaves The Saving Graces, imparting only wisdom that can be seen after such an event.  One tip to the reader, it took me awhile to realize that whoever the chapter is titled after, they are the narrator in that current chapter.	2001-06-19
US	49355291	RJYWSWBXE9ZF3	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wow!  A Powerful Novel.	Karana, who lost her mom at a young age, and watched her father die in a battle, can't bear to leave her brother running along the shore line as her and her people leave on a ship to a different land.  She swims back to the island to take care of her brother and wait for the ship to return...After losing faith in the returning ship and in her ability to get to the different land, she establishes permanent living conditions on her native island.  She makes many animal friends such as a wild dog, Rontu, a seal and it's family, and two pet birds.  She builds weapons to protect herself and a house to shelter her and her new family.  She does things that a woman of her tribe would have never attempted before and is successful... After losing so many people in her life, this ending of a friend is pretty emotional...	2001-06-18
US	49355291	R2K8ZJP1P8NJ4X	0613171373	817918233	A Child Called &#34;&#34;It&#34;&#34;: One Child's Courage To Survive (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Story That Must be Told	As I read this book, I kept wondering why on the cover had it been printed with &quot;An Inspirational Story&quot;.  Reading this book over the course of two evenings, I felt a growing lump in my stomach and my face grew stiff from the expression with which I had been reading.  This is most definitely a story that needed to be told.  I hold a deep respect and reverence for David Pelzer and his life story.  This story details a life so unfathomable, so unimaginable I can hardly believe David Pelzer is a real person.  I kept flipping over the book to ensure he was still there with his slight smile.  Kudos to Dave Pelzer for his inhuman strength and will.  In addition, his boldness at telling a story that must be told.  Even if you are aware of child abuse and it's demonic existence this is a good book for you to read.  It charts his life from happy times, to the beginning of abuse, and finally the removal from his mother.  I thank David Pelzer for his epilogue introducing us to himself as a father.  I believe that portion was more for the reader than for himself.  He knows he's a survivor, he knows his chances of being an abuser are greater than non-abused persons, and he knows he will love his children in an infinite amount.  This is a must read for every school professional, adult, and child out there.  May we have the strength to make a difference the way David Pelzer has.	2001-06-18
US	49355291	R2V0BRYI4JF6UQ	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Ready to Have End	This book seemed a bit too long to me.  While there is a good plot and enough secrets to keep you turning the pages, I still don't see the warrant of three hundred and four of them.  The story between mother and daughter is a good one, albeit a unique one.  While I thought it covered a fairly common topic, that of a mother and daughter and a daughter's introduction to her sexuality,  the mother and daughter are so unique, it makes for a very different story.  I enjoyed the all-knowing narrator that could tell of things to happen in the future and let us glimpse into the other lives around town.  I almost think there were more stories in the townspeople lives, then in just Amy and Isabelle's.  The hottest part of the book comes on the last day of school when Amy and Mr.  Robertson finally act on their afterschool yearnings.  At the end of the book, I didn't long to learn what happened when Amy met her new relatives or wonder what happened between the new mother and daughter.  That in itself tells a lot about my concern for the characters and involvement in the book.	2001-06-18
US	49355291	R3DINYRI9DKKXZ	038059949X	622786565	Somebody Else's Kids	Books	5	7	16	N	N	SHE WON ME OVER	Ashamedly, I admit that I did not want to like this story.  After finding out that Torey Hayden was a special education teacher, I almost set my heart against her.  Embarrassingly, this comes from a fellow teacher, although in general education.  All I could think of was the smaller class sizes, reduced work loads such as no report cards, progress reports, or thirty papers to grade, increased budgets for supplies and resources, and more flexible schedules such as being able to send students back to their &quot;regular ed&quot; room when needed.  I'll admit it, I guess I was almost as bad as Edna Thorsen (inward cringe).  However, let me say this loud and clear:  SHE WON ME OVER!  The impact that Torey Hayden had on these students was remarkable and left me in tears at the end of the book.  Her school year was one to end all years.  I love that her attitude about her job is to put herself out of buisness, only a true special needs teacher would view it in that manner.  Tomaso's story was one I could actually symthasize with having had experience with such a student.  I did not envy her as I read about her incident with the knife.  I even felt myself sweating along with her.  It was his story that had me in tears at the end of the book.  The one thing that she had tried to teach him (and sometimes you're lucky if they get just one thing) had rung true and caused him to be a hero of his home town.    Lori's story was heart wrenching and my heart went out to both teacher and student on this one.  Hayden has done a service to all teachers out there.  It's made me take a closer look at the students with special needs in my own class and to work together better with my special education colleagues.  This is a must read for ALL educators.	2001-06-18
US	49355291	R2OACJAXLHXRQT	0440224764	999720718	The Partner	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Great Read for Those Wanting to &quot;Disappear&quot;.	This book irked me, at first, because I thought that Grisham had given away the climatic ending and I would just be reading on to find the facts that led to this ending.  In contrast, the capture of the main character, Patrick, is far from the ending.  I read the book yearning for all of the tidbits that landed Patrick in his vulnerable situation.  After awhile, you learn to respect Patrick, and his ability to impeccably plan.  Ironically, the only thing Patrick couldn't plan is the one thing that catches him in the end.  One of my more favorite characters, was Trudy, Patrick's wife.  Although she was greedy, shallow, and extremely predictable, we can all identify with someone of her likeness.  One of the philosophical points of the book relays the message that everyone wants to get away, or to disappear in some way.  I, as well as many Grisham readers identified with this statement.  I was very surprised by the ending and a bit disappointed.  The hopeless romantic in all of us wants things to go another way, but the justice part of us feels that Patrick deserves this ending.  Overall, an excellent read.  A must read for those feeling  they need to get away from jobs, families, and responsibilities.	2001-04-14
US	49355291	R39FT5N22Q8S42	0440431808	646438686	From the Mixed-Up Files of Mrs. Basil E. Frankweiler (Yearling Newbery)	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Witty and True Voices	One issue I have with this story is that the two main characters run away from home and never get punished for this.  They only benefit from their running away and even inherit a famous statue.  There are many lessons learned while they are away, such as teamwork, getting along and money managing.  The brother and sister form a special bond, which may never have happened, if they hadn't run away.  This story is hard to put down and is full of times when you hold your breath in fear for the children.  The inner and outer voices of the children, Claudia especially, are witty, true and ring home for many of us.  One such time is when Claudia wants to teach her parents a little &quot;Claudia appreciation&quot;.  Everyone has felt under-appreciated and feels for Claudia and her impressions.  This is a definite read aloud or group study book.  Some discussion may be needed on the real danger that the kids were in and the things that went right, but could have gone drastically wrong.  Discussions of better choices than running away would also need to be breached.	2001-04-14
US	49355291	R2E30SPSEEQLCB	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Read	Grisham has succeeded in engrossing me in yet another novel of his.  This one has a different twist because the main characters are living in a federal prison where they operate a huge scam.  Their scam ensnares many powerful victims but none too powerful than their latest.  While you hate what the con-men are doing, you start to respect and admire the skill at which they perform their acts.  The ending leaves much to be desired as I thought it was rather clipped.  Perhaps this was done to imitate how it would happen in real life, but it left the reader with a small void.  However, in my typical Grisham style it could have been my speed at turning the pages that brought the ending on so quick.  Grisham leaves the ending open for a sequel which would be much anticipated.  Teddy (a main character) can easily influence the next president with his information and you long to find out how Aaron Lake (fictitious presidential candidate) finishes his political career.  One character that I wish would have been more developed was the new inmate that 'The Brethren' help to escape from prison.  He was a necessary pawn, but a likable one to have had more details on.  I would recommend this book to Grisham fans everywhere as a good read.	2001-03-25
US	49355291	R1U9RXGN9WKD6J	0689817215	491485249	The View from Saturday	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Book to be Read Aloud	The author of this book takes four kids who could individually be outcasts and turns them into the school, town, and state heroes.  They become these heroes when they band together to win the academic championship.  The book is filled with interesting questions and the way the kids know the answers, is even more interesting.  There is a time when one child has the sentence &quot;I am a ***&quot; written on his backpack.  Julian, who's backpack was assaulted, changes the sentence to, &quot;I am a passenger on spaceship earth&quot;.  This provides a meaningful and all important lesson to children that have been teased or taunted.  Eventually, the foursome outsmart their enemies and provide fame for their almost down and out teacher which is heartwarming.  I fully enjoyed reading this book, and would read it aloud, even with the swear word.  The characters were unique, culturally and physically diverse and utterly charming.  Another great novel by Koningsburg!	2001-03-25
US	49355291	R2S0PHNB6KDBAO	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great for Potter Fans;  Lots of Ammo for Critics	This book will not disappoint true Harry Potter fans.  I did enjoy Harry's new adventures in his fourth year at Hogwarts.  However, this book alone would not persuade a doubtful child or parent that the Harry Potter series  is worth merit.  For one reason the size is very intimidating.  I can not  see myself handing over a seven-hundred and thirty-four page book to a  child to get them interested in reading.  They would feel overwhelmed and  give up after the first two chapters, possibly from fatigue at just  carrying the book around.  (The first book in the Harry Potter series would  be better suited to get a child interested in reading)  Second, the  innocence of the characters is severely diminished.  One might argue that  they're getting older, but it just came as a big surprise to me.  One such  example is when Ron mentions the planet Uranus (and it's double meaning) in  relation to a fellow student.  I found this inappropriate for adolescent  humor.  Third, a house-elf in the  story drowns her sorrow in a substance  that works similar to alcohol.  This presents an all too often seen message  for depressed adolescents to turn to drugs to solve their problems.  There  goes all of DARE's hard work!  The house-elf never deals with her sorrow  and ends her part in the book sobbing uncontrollably.  While Hogwarts and  the whole magical world has always been filled with witches and wizards,  their themes and attributes seem more pronounced in this book.  More  attention is given to pointed hats and the standard &quot;witch and  wizard&quot; attributes than in previous books.  The ending scene with  Voldemort is very disturbing and seems to have been written for critics to  focus on.  Never before has a Potter book seemed close to Satanic rituals  or cult-like followings.  This is not true of the fourth book.  I really  enjoyed the development of Hermione's character.  She is quickly becoming  my favorite, next to Harry, that is!  This critic did not let the above  stop her from thoroughly enjoying the book, or waiting on bated breath for  the next.  (Especially the way it ended).  Regardless, I can not see myself  handing it over to an innocent adolescent without stopping to discuss with  them during key points in the book.op her from thoroughly enjoying the book, or waiting on bated breath for  the next.  (Especially the way it ended).  Regardless, I can not see myself  handing it over to an innocent adolescent without stopping to discuss with  them during key points in the book.	2000-07-31
US	49355291	RHGBCOEJSYU1Q	0802773591	499059338	The First Year of Teaching: Real World Stories from America's Teachers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Great Read for a First-Year Teacher	This book involves twenty-five short stories about the first year of teaching.  The stories range from emotional, to triumph, to sad.  There was a great deal of positives highlighted while the realism of teaching was not  lost.  Most of the teachers seemed to be English teachers as would prompt  the writing of stories.  One particularly meaningful short story was about  a teacher that found hardships not within his classroom, but among his  fellow colleagues, towards him.  One teacher hit home with a remark on  feeling resentful of the students because he was working so hard, and they  didn't appreciate how hard he was working.  He finally learned to give more  responsibility and freedom to his students to provide a happy environment  for all.  A great read for me, as a first year teacher.	2000-07-31
US	49355291	RGW5KRHH2Q5G6	0883965097	586292375	The Language of Teaching: Thoughts on the Art of Teaching and the Meaning of Education (Language of Series)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Pretty Book, Not a lot of Substance	Comments:  This is a beautifully constructed book with a recycled bind and end pages made with real flowers and plants.  The pages are made with very quality paper and is an excellent addition and display for any library.  The one downfall this book has are the applicable nature of the quotes.  I  found I had to read some twice or even three times to try and grasp the  meanings.  This could be due to the age of the quote or the original  language in which it was written.  Two quotes really hit home, for me, as a  new edition to the profession.  I especially liked the quote that says  teachers learn the most from their students.  Another quote that hit home  was about the steps of seeking knowledge, the last of which is teaching  others.  This is a lovely keepsake for teachers and the 'God Bless the  Teacher' and 'A Message of Thanks to All the Great Teachers in This World'  would make any teacher feel valuable.  This book should win awards for its  attempt at putting together thoughts about teaching.  However, it lacks the  modern day real feelings and quotes about education to hit home for today's  teachers.	2000-07-17
US	49355291	RLMFYBAEY44PR	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Year Three-A Must Read	Comments:  Rowling now has a third wonderful book in the Harry Potter series.  This book has new characters, new plots, and new twists.  We learn more about Harry's family and especially of Harry's parent's former family  friend:  Sirius Black.  In the beginning Harry's future seems uncertain as  he gets into some magical trouble with the Dursleys.  You breathe a sigh of  relief when he again returns to his dormitory at Hogwarts.  Two new  teachers are introduced at Hogwarts, Professor Lupin and Professor  Trelawney both rich in uniqueness and fun to read about.  A new pet,  Crookshanks is introduced and is central to the storyline.  A terrifying  new thing are the dementors that are the guards of Azkaban, removed to look  for the escaped Sirius.  Harry has quite a few harrowing encounters with  these creatures. Hermione has a strange year as she tries to take too many  courses for a normal student, alas, she was never a normal student.  Through most of the story Harrry is hunted by an imprisoned wizard out to  kill him.  This makes for a hold your breath kind-of book.  The ending is  bittersweet and not what I had been hoping for.  However, things seem like  they will be improving at the Dursleys.  There is plenty of space for  sequels, as the coming of the Dark Lord is predicted.  I can hardly wait to  read about Harry's adventures in his fourth year at Hogwarts.	2000-07-06
US	49355291	R1P2XJEEBGF3PM	0802773591	499059338	The First Year of Teaching: Real World Stories from America's Teachers	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Real Good Book From an American Teacher!	This book involves twenty-five short stories about the first year of teaching.  The stories range from emotional, to triumph, to sad.  There was a great deal of positives highlighted while the realism of teaching was not  lost.  Most of the teachers seemed to be English teachers as would prompt  the writing of stories.  One particularly meaningful short story was about  a teacher that found hardships not within his classroom, but among his  fellow colleagues, towards him.  One teacher hit home with a remark on  feeling resentful of the students because he was working so hard, and they  didn't appreciate how hard he was working.  He finally learned to give more  responsibility and freedom to his students to provide a happy environment  for all.  A great read for me, as a first year teacher.	2000-06-28
US	49355291	R3E7XM0VN367BK	1572710284	817650786	First-Class Teacher: Success Strategies for New K-8 Teachers	Books	4	18	18	N	N	First-Rate Book;   From a First Year Teacher	A great book that covers many of the issues relevant to first year teachers.  I found the reproducibles practical and plan on readily using them.  I especially liked the way this book covered K-8 instruction.  At  times they give specific details for middle school teachers which was very  helpful for me.  Their getting started chapter was very good, but  time-intensive.  Realistically, some things would have to be cut-out.   Their discipline chapter was excellent in providing concrete examples,  suggestions, and more reproducibles.  I don't know how you can possibly do  all of the things for parents in the &quot;How to Involve Parents&quot;  chapter, but this would be a definite resource to go to when you would like  to improve on parental relationships.  The engaging students chapter was  good, many of these skills can be observed on an expert teacher and only  take time to develop.  However, these are great hints to some colleagues.   Developing community and teaching social skills were two excellent chapters  that every teacher should read.  If we had more classrooms fitting these  ideals, we would produce better citizens.  Bravo to Canter!  Lastly, I  enjoyed the last chapter on enhancing professional and personal growth.   The most reassuring part of the book, for me, was the &quot;De-stress for  Success&quot; section.  I plan to implement all of their  &quot;de-stressing&quot; ideas and was relieved to feel that I was not the  only one in that position.  An excellent read for a first year teacher AND  many veteran teachers.	2000-06-28
US	49355291	R3PCJJPP8INQPP	0440414121	79062036	The Watsons Go to Birmingham--1963	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Excellent Book for all Children	The main character is ten-year-old, African-American, Kenny Watson.  Kenny is the middle child of a family that lives in Flint, Michigan.  This story is mostly about Kenny, his times at school and the love/hate relationships  with his older brother, Byron and little sister, Joetta.  Kenny is a bright  child, and an excellent reader, but he has lazy eyes.  These attributes  sometimes cause him to be made fun of.  Kenny's brother gets into much  trouble during the time of the book and the parents decide to send him to  his grandmother for the summer.  Near the end of the book, the whole family  takes a trip to Birmingham, Alabama to drop off Byron.  While there, Kenny  almost drowns in a lake and Joetta is nearly killed, during one infamous  bombing of an African American church.  The children are exposed to the  hatred felt toward their people and the book ends with their dealing of  this hatred.  The epilogue is excellent in summing up some of the events of  that time period, and of the heroes that were prevalent.  The hatred and  racism touches you deeply because you had grown to love and respect the  Watson family.	2000-06-16
US	49355291	R1X63VVA8BPM5	0805050124	475112510	Breaking Ground, Breaking Silence: The Story of New York's African Burial Ground (Coretta Scott King Author Honor Books)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Great Book!	This book wonderfully encompasses a vast wealth of knowledge.  Archaeology, history, current events, and modern day issues are just a few things.  This book is extremely well written from the introduction, to the  archeological dig, to an epilogue that summarized the issues behind the  dig.  I found it very informative about the history of African Americans  during colonial times.  I also thought that it was informative on the  procedures followed for archeological digs.  I really got a feel for the  climate, attitudes, and living of African Americans during their first  years in America.  I would definitely use this book in a classroom study of  the early Americans.  It presents an alternate view than the pioneering  white male view commonly seen during these times.  The many pictures are  graphic, well-taken and very interesting.	2000-06-14
