US	49352968	R1KPMOTUJITGSG	0393038912	733405472	Guns, Germs and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	8	10	N	N	If combining Science w/History is Scientism,Scientismist beI	\\"Guns, Germs, and Steel: the Fates of Human Societies\\" by Jared Diamond<br />Normally, when I read an argumentative book I attempt to find holes and flaws in logic, in an attempt to sift through to the persuasive.  As I read Diamond, perhaps that critical faculty ebbed - more likely, I just found myself ebullient at finding a book that so deftly unites history (and pre-history) with science.  No major criticism comes to mind, though I'm sure with the amount of information packed into 425 pages, experts in their respective fields might have differing perspectives on the more contentious archaeological and historical issues that Diamond presents (e.g. dating of migrations like Clovis - though Diamond seems fairly careful to differentiate between his views and those having more consensus.).  <br />Abstracting Diamond, my only real analogy could be a computer program called SimCity, which allows a person to tinker with a city's fauna and geography and observe the results. It's a SimCivilization view of human history.  Rather than looking primarily at isolated incidents, say, the assassination of Abe Lincoln, it is sort of a meta-history that looks at the trends of history and tries to correlate those trends with geographic variables.  Diamond's explanations span continents, showing that Australia and Tasmania's until recent technological backwardness is linked to the nutrient-poor and metal limited environment, rather than as \\"explained\\" by the 19th century colonialist ethnocentric presuppositions (or to put it in a less biased manner the technology the Aborigines had met the need of different conditions, and had less resources to build upon) .  <br />The European conquest of the Americas, likewise had to do with the isolation of the complex societies of the Americas by latitude differentials (slowing the spread of agriculture from one place to another, versus the East West axis of Eurasia which promoted the spread of domesticated crops across a wide area) and natural boundaries, coupled most importantly with a relative lack of native domesticable species.  The biological and scientific components of Diamond's theorizing come into the fore when he discusses the nature of epidemic diseases, and their spread from livestock to human hosts, which leads to human populations with greater immunity over many generations in areas so effected (if they aren't hit at one stroke with wave after wave of diseases with entirely no immunity as happened with most of the former inhabitants of North America.).      <br />I think one of the things that excited me the most about Diamond was the stark contrast in his method of history in comparison to my rather dismal experiences with some other \\"historians\\" (Diamond is a professor of physiology).   Sure, Diamond has ideological views, but they aren't the whole interpretive lens, and don't bog down his prose.  He brings observations to the table, and doesn't overtly bring a non-empirical ideological prism through which history must be explained (though of course there may be the turf-defending rote charge of scientism, in which case I await the postmodern attempt to deconstruct paleontology as successfully as Sokal (?) mockingly deconstructed physics.  Why at 2500 B.C.E. do the humanities' explanations suddenly become omnipotent?  So the humanities and history chairs at universities can feel like what they're doing is important, and equally so?)	2001-03-17
US	49352968	R3G49S95IYPIVS	0879759240	243559305	The Christ	Books	5	38	45	N	N	Mythical Messiahs	While this book is not that popular or well known, it should be the handbook for destroying Christianity. Remsberg lists over six hundred contradictions in the first four gospels alone! The book was actually written at the very beginning of the twentieth century, but is still a powerful tool to be used in debates with Christians. The minutia involved is of great pleasure to anyone who wants a knowledge of numerous curiousities in the story of Jesus.<br />Remsberg also makes a strong case for the very non-existence of Jesus. The historicity of this mythical character is a subject that is difficult to argue, but Remsberg's book is a great reference for understanding why the &quot;sources&quot; that support Jesus' existence are unreliable. From Pliny, to Tacitus, to Josephus, to the Bible, Remsberg thoroughly discredits every source, often exposing many as blatant interpolations	2001-01-09
US	49352968	RE1SJH8YOGID9	0140231196	864967142	Live from Golgotha: The Gospel According to Gore Vidal	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Funny encore to Jvlian	Though a work of fiction, this is one of the funniest books I've ever read. I'd have to say that this book is much more of an insult to Christianity than the Satanic Verses was to Islam. Gore Vidal, a self-proclaimed &quot;very strong Atheist,&quot; is a brilliant writer. I especially enjoyed his work Julian (JVLIAN), which was about Julian the Apostate, the only Roman emporer to leave Christianity in favor of the pre-Nicean pagan temples of Rome and their respective gods. Live from Golgotha, like Rushdie's &quot;Satanic Verses,&quot; takes the basic characters and story line from a major religion, and alters it to make it comedy, making a sort of mockery of that respective faith. <br />The author makes fun of Jesus, his disciples, and the apostle Paul. Jesus is badly overweight; a big fatty with an eating disorder. Paul is a notorious homosexual, and possibley even a child molester, not to mention a former hitman for Mossad. The early disciples and church fathers are either greedy Jewish gangsters or bisexual Greek converts. Both Jesus and Paul, the founders of Christianity who never met each other, have a tendency to lie and rewrite Christian history in order to make themselves look good (as Jesus gets older, he keeps lying about his age; at 40 he tells people he's only 33). <br />The story is a wonderful read, and though Vidal makes a mockery of the story of Christianity, he is thoroughly familiar with its tenets. The story touches on the possible troubles between James' Jewish church, and Paul's gentile church, and how both had different interpretations of the message brought by the most subversive self-hating Jew of them all, Fat Jesus. As a teaser, I'll leave you with Paul's account of when he met Jesus post-crucifixion, which is found both on the back of the book, as well as in the fourth chapter: <br />&quot;So there I was. A hot day. Palm trees. A mirage shivering in the middle distance. A camel. A pyramid. Your average Middle Eastern landscape... Suddenly,HE WAS THERE... Wide as he was tall, Jesus waddled toward me... That face. Those luminous eyes hidden somewhere in all that golden fat. That ineffable smile like the first slice from a honeydw melon. Oh delight! He held up a hand, a tiny starfish cunningly fashioned of lard. He spoke, His voice so high, so shrill that only the odd canine ever got the whole message... 'Why,' shrilled the Son of the One God, 'dost thou persecuteth me-th?'&quot;	2001-01-09
US	49352968	RCC6L9Q6S8RL8	087975124X	506739930	Atheism: The Case Against God (The Skeptic's Bookshelf)	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Too much focus on Christianity	George Smith is one of the more popular modern writers to cover the topic of Atheism. This book actually makes for a great introduction to the basics of Atheism and Atheistic criticism of Christianity. Smith does an excellent job of explaining the basic theist arguments for God's existence, and then explaining why these arguments are not acceptable. Surely this makes for a great present to give to a loved one at Christmas or any other respective Pagan holiday that includes gift-giving as one of its rituals. <br />While Smith's book is a great read, a jaded kaafir such as myself was a bit sour with the fact that the book never acknowledges Islam. Smith himself says that his book is a criticism of the God of Christianity, and that is perfectly fine considering that Jesusism is the most dominant religion in the west. Still, one gets the feeling that much of Smith's work could already be found online. A highly recommended book, but a little redundant for those of us who are seeking to move beyond the basic Christian-bashing techniques.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	R2V35DXSBNDA6D	0521457238	886915241	On the Nature and Existence of God (Cambridge Philosophy Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Intro to Atheology 101	I came across this one at a local book store in my neighborhood, and it was a very good find. I had never heard of this book, nor do I recall any other Atheist sites that list it, yet I rate it with Martin's Atheism: A Philosophical Justification as one of the better books on the subject. The author does not cover the basics anywhere near as thorough as Smith does, but the book is a nice introduction to Atheological arguments. Attempts are made to discredit the existence of God, and the very concept of some of His attributes (such as omnipotence, omniscience, et cetera). Most entertaining of all, Gale touches on the question of things God can and cannot create (such as four-sided triangles, et cetera). While these are questions that many theists have tried to wave off as absurd or even sophomoric, Gale does a great job of giving them a more sound quality	2001-01-09
US	49352968	RAHA7FUBGJI1	0879759844	171804759	Why I Am Not a Muslim	Books	5	13	27	N	N	This Blasphemy is just the Beginning!	This book has sky-rocketed to the height of popularity amonng the kuffar, and will probably go down as a cult classic among those who sought to call the haram halal, and the halal haram. This book is probably the finest introduction to using the kufr-ilhad one-two shot against Muslims. Undoubtedly the book as set a new tone in skeptical scholarship of Islam, and Warraq, the number one kaafir folk-hero, will be mimicked by many of the world's future infidels. <br />Warraq's many topics are wide and varied. Some of it seems to be the basic polemics that one might find any Christian missionary using, but other parts make for a great introduction to other writers, such as Noldeke, Cook, Crone, and other blasphemers whose works are unknown to the average kaafir. The section on wine, pork, and homosexuality makes for a very entertaining read, and the section on the Qur'an is a very good introduction to the problems surrounding this text. The most interesting of all was the section on blasphemers, apostates, and other assorted zanadiqa that serve as role models for us here at the Freethought Mecca.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	RDZ8UYEELOAJL	0879753072	943026062	The Encyclopedia of Unbelief, Volumes I and II	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Well rounded, provides insight into world-wide disbelief	Stein is the editor of numerous anthologies and encyclopedias of skeptical nature, but this is by far his best. There are so many topics available to the reader, making for a smorgasbord of Atheist material. The book includes sections on Atheism in the history of many of the world's great nations, such as Russia, China, India, et cetera. There is copious amounts of information on those who chose to utter blasphemy against the faith they were raised in (such as apostates from Islam, Hinduism, Christianity, Judaism, et cetera). <br />The contributing authors include some big names, such as George A Wells on the topic of Jesus historicity, James Randi on the topic of hoaxes and frauds, and numerous other highly regarded experts in their respective fields. All in all, this is an impressive compilation of essays by the finest skeptics in the world today.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	R2V4LWB5XPTWHZ	1573927872	773973339	The Quest for the Historical Muhammad	Books	5	71	89	N	N	Unveiling the weakness of Islamic salvation history	Of Warraq's first three books with Prometheus, this is by far the finest of the lot. &quot;Why I Am Not a Muslim&quot; served as a basic introduction for those who seek to criticize Islam, and &quot;Origins of the Koran&quot; was a slight step up in the level of difficulty (dare I say, &quot;intermediate kufr&quot;?). This book would have to be considered advanced level scholarship as far as Prometheus' Islamic studies section goes. <br />Warraq's introduction gets into the world of the ahadith and sira literature, the only information on the &quot;historical&quot; Muhammad. This makes for a great information on the problems with the reliability of these sources, such as the fact that many of the more respective compilations came about centuries after the time Muhammad allegedly lived. The second chapter of the book is an essay by Ibn al-Rawandi, it is a brilliant and sharped-tongued attack on Islamic historical sources that compliments the book perfectly. <br />The rest of the book, like Origins of the Koran, is a compilation of scholarly essays from other sources. Some of it is rather old, but the more recent works are highly entertaining. The best of the essays, in my opinion, is Lawrence Conrad's Abraha and Muhammad, which exposes the weakness of the Islamic calendar, causing many events measured by it to also come into question.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	R19EIUCIQB54IE	0877229430	194402811	Atheism: A Philosophical Justification	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Charged Atheism	In my opinion, this is undoubtedly one of the strongest defenses of Atheism ever written. Martin gives information on both &quot;negative&quot; and &quot;positive&quot; Atheism. These two distinctions are as follows: &quot;negative&quot; Atheism is simply non-belief in any particular god, while &quot;positive&quot; Atheism is the firm belief that no gods exist. It may sound like there is no difference at all, but it mostly has to do with how strong one's Atheism is. <br />Martin, a professor of philosophy at Boston University, destroys numerous modern incarnations of common theist arguments, including William Lane Craig's twist on the Kalam cosmological argument. The one draw back to this book is that it might make for rough reading for those who are not familiar with the symbolization and syntax of sentential logic. Such readers may have a tough time with Martin's arguments which, at times, resemble mathematical equations.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	RJIGF1DPBHDRX	0394711955	71581131	Among the Believers: An Islamic Journey	Books	3	9	15	N	N	Religion can never fail, except of course, when it does.	In this enjoyable travelogue, set in the backdrop of late 1970's  Iran, Pakistan, Malaysia, and Indonesia, Naipaul confronts a way of life that he had never given a second thought to as an intellectual, coming from a secular Hindu family in Trinidad.  Although this handicaps him in some ways (e.g. he uses the word &quot;Sabbath&quot; for the Friday Ju'mah), it is also a source of some novel thoughts about Islamic ideals (insofar as they can be articulated) versus actual Muslim practice, and Islamic &quot;Revolutions.&quot; <br />    In his accounts of meetings with Muslims of various levels of religiosity Naipaul attempts to understand how Islam could possibly exert a pull given its manifest failures.  Although he comes to no definite answers, he does provide insight about the un-falsifiable nature of Islamic ideology (Islam didn't fail, Muslims did...).  Interesament	2001-01-09
US	49352968	R12HLNCSK2NFFY	0879751983	281452341	Flim-Flam! Psychics, ESP, Unicorns, and Other Delusions	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Flim Flam Kabaam!	The founder of James Randi Educational Foundation offers a wonderful book that exposes the numerous frauds being perpetrated by quacks, shamans, psychics, and other shady characters who fake paranormal powers by use of fraud. Randi, a man with an international reputation as a magician and escape artist, is very familiar with the art of deception, and has built a career exposing numerous frauds. He's even exposed top-notch self-proclaimed Messiahs such as Uri Gellar. <br />Randi, years ago, set up a challenge to anyone claiming paranormal powers. Psychics, spoon-benders, faith-healers, and other assorted weirdos turned up for the challenge and a chance at its $10,000 reward (which has since been raised to $1 million). All of these phonies were exposed, and Randi documents many of his more humorous conquests in this book. So, the next time some theist talks about miracles in our own time, direct him or her to Randi's book or web site.	2001-01-09
US	49352968	R2IYE50KMM6ZBU	1559720255	272692347	The Rushdie Affair: The Novel, the Ayatollah, and the West	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Highlights the Novelty of Fiction as International Conflict	Written shortly after the major events surrounding the Rushdie Conflict (though not before the murder of the Japanese translator of the Satanic Verses), Daniel Pipes provides major insight and perspective into the root  causes of this international conflagration.  He provides both a breakdown  of Rushdie's work, and an explanation of the translation difficulties that  further encouraged misunderstanding about the Book's actual contents.  He  appears to have a steady grasp of Arabic by the bibliography and  transliteration, consonant with a fair amount of expertise in analyzing  Islam.  He provides the Islamic rationales for trying Salman Rushdie for  apostasy, and indicates the questionableness of Khomeini's method (not the  penalty itself) even under Islamic standards.(Gotta give 'em a trial, a  chance to repent over three days, and then chop-chop- at least for the  Sunni variety of Islam, though the various madhdhabs or schools of  jurisprudence differ on the exact details of divinely sanctioned murder.)    After reading the Satanic Verses, I whole heartedly concur that because of  its level of erudition and numerous allusions to less familiar (to  Westerners) stories from the salvation history of Islam to South Asian  culture, it is no surprise how few people actually read the entire novel.   But what is rather disturbing about human nature, is that this didn't stop  complete Ignoramuses from opining- Pipes provides a multitude of quotes  indicating the level of hearsay fed to the masses.  Pipes also emphasizes  the unprecedented scale of this eruption of world-wide riots and protests,  citing works critical of Islam with far graver blasphemies.  One  blasphemous volume mentioned by Pipes that I found enjoyable was 23 years-  a critical biography of the Prophet Muhammad by Ali Dashti, who although  Pipes doesn't make reference to it, &quot;disappeared&quot; in 1980's Iran.   <br />Pipes also mentions some of the effects the conflict had on the front  lines of bookselling and publishing, pondering over the possible changes  the death threats and bombings inaugrated by religious fervor.  A decade  later, I don't know how to guage his power of prophecy, but his commentary  on the complex intersecting issues remain both incisive and fascinating.	2000-06-17
US	49352968	R1ZBPGK9YLD4UB	0671770063	336580945	Revelation X: The 'Bob' Apocryphon: Hidden Teachings and Deuterocanonical Texts of J.R. 'Bob' Dobbs	Books	5	11	14	N	N	Allegory of the &quot;Bob&quot;	&quot;Something for NOTHING It Can All Be Yours Everything You Know Is TRUE &quot;Bob IS THE PROOF&quot; (Page ii) Throughout Revelation X I came across statements which at first glance might seem silly or nonsensical,  and yet upon further inspection came across as bearing a kernal of truth.  As for the quote above, in the context of the two nearby pictures of  brains, one labeled &quot;before&quot; and healthy, and a second labeled  &quot;after&quot; where the cerebral cortex has shrunk and become  disfigured, it is a damning critique of the cult follower mentality,  whereby one is crippled by the presumption of obtained truth, rather than  continually searching for more truth. The &quot;Bob is Proof&quot; refers  to the circular reasoning integral in the matinence of this veneer of  possessing truth, observable in the fundamentalist who quotes his  scriptures to say that his God exists because God revealed the scripture  saying that he exists. Revelation X has the distinguishing feature of being  hilarious while at the same time incisive, in fact, in some places  brilliant when it comes to analyzing religion (especially Scientology) and  popular culture, such that I am left wondering where to begin. One section  I loved had to do with the nature of Revelation X and the Church: &quot;The  Church of Subgenius: Salvation, or Salivation? A joke disguised as a  religion? Or an actual, secretive religion, disguised as a joke disguised  as a religion? Or, an incredibly complex joke, disguised as an extremely  ambiguous religion, disguised as a joke disguised as a religion? Just  another excuse for obnoxious jerks, or the last bastion of human  dignity? &quot; (xiv) It goes on to ask the same questions of other  religions: &quot;Drugged by childish superstitions and fairy tales, they  don't realize that they are enslaved by shadows on the cave walls. We were  the ones who MADE those shadows in the first place, but try telling them  that! Now they want to subject us to the mass hallucinations we first set  in motion!&quot; (xiv) By alluding to Plato's &quot;Allegory of the  Cave,&quot; it reminds me of the circumstances chaining people to the  conclusions they were to make about their place in the universe in past  historical epochs. It does seem like a joke to think that people would  engage in human sacrifice to make sure that &quot;the sun wouldn't burn  out&quot;...when we obviously see that the sun, controlled by the natural  process of fusion, isn't going to burn out if we don't rip a few hearts  out, that Allah/Yahweh isn't going to send fire and brimstone on us if we  view gays and lesbians as fellow human beings. Well, some of us, that is.  But hey, no prob according to &quot;Bob&quot;- &quot;Think Stupidly. Act  Globally.&quot; (3) Another insight I derived from Revelation X was a  further understanding of the noncognitivist position, namely, that God does  exist is not a statement or proposition that can be said to be true or  false in the same way that &quot;That chair is grey&quot; can be said to be  true or false. While I don't think that Revelation X is explicitly  advocating that position, it uses language in such a way as to expose the  gibberish that can surround any &quot;statement&quot; dealing with God, or  the ethereal &quot;holiness&quot; or &quot;grace&quot; refered to as  &quot;slack.&quot; To name but a few: &quot;God is everywhere...but  &quot;Bob&quot; has already been...everywhere else....&quot;'Bob' is the  rabbit, and he is the magic hat, and he is the trapdoor on the  tabletop....'Bob' is the Daisy Air Rifle, he is the 'B-B,' and he is the  eyepatch on your little brother....'Bob' is the gas and he is the engine.  And he is the oncoming out-of-control Mack truck on the wrong side of the  road with the driver asleep at the wheel, and he is the pill which that  driver took. AND 'BOB&quot;S' YOUR UNCLE!&quot; (4)[God is omnipresent.  This bread and wine are the body of God. And God's your Father!-  Ill-defined relationship between God and the universe?] &quot;Dobbs  [&quot;Bob&quot;] exists in the eye of an acausal &quot;hurricane,&quot; a  quantum storm generating enough Slackforce to coerce the odds and  variances, the very physical laws of our Universe, into giving him exactly  what he wants and needs from moment to moment. Dobbs never has to  compromise his desires in any way; instead, the Universe must rearrange  itself, and somtimes perform remarkable feats of acausality, in order to  accommodate Dobbs.&quot; (5) [Cf. Aquinas, Unmoved Mover, etc.] I guess I  do know how to end, however, as I feel I would otherwise quote the whole  book. In the first chapter, it brings up the question of how much sense it  makes for someone to say that God is loving, or angry, or has  &quot;concern&quot; for the welfare of human beings: &quot;Human anguish is  a very high-priced drug among the Elder Gods. They will pay top dollar for  the right quality of bottled torment, accumulated over a lifetime and pent  up in the soul. They 'inject' that poisoned soul in highly concentrated  doses, causing spasms of indescribable alien ecstasy....&quot; (12) What  would cause divine pleasure- and how do we know it would be human  salvation?	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R11EYQYCNJMI2X	0716733870	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	5	33	39	N	N	Skepticism isn't a Dirty Word!	Pssst.  You know the Roswell alien autopsy video?  It's a government plant- the real alien they found had far more hideous tentacles....What?  You don't believe me!   You...you...skeptic!              As Michael Shermer, professor at Occidental College and publisher of SKEPTIC magazine,   points out in Why People Believe Weird Things, calling someone a skeptic  can almost take on a pejorative meaning, equating skepticism with the worst  possible cynicism.  This in spite of the fact that skepticism is a  methodology used at least partially in one circumstance or another by  virtually every human being.  Though some feel that skepticism should only  be directed against used-car salesman, or followers of \\"them there false  I-D-eol-O-g-eez\\" (from Satan no doubt)- never towards oneself- Shermer  makes the case that skepticism merits attention in a wide variety of  spheres.              Using examples drawn from such diverse elements as  Creationism, Alien Abduction, Near Death Experiences, and Holocaust  Revisionism- as well as lesser known cases of pseudo-thought, such as the  personality \\"cult\\" surrounding Ayn Rand- Shermer deftly explores the wide  applicability of skepticism in debunking frivolous and sometimes even  harmful pseudoscience, pseudohistory, and pseudo-truth.  And importantly,  he does so without a \\"holier than thou\\" style- even divulging in a few  passages his own bouts of credulity.               Shermer makes a valiant  effort to follow one of Spinoza's dictums: \\"I have made a ceaseless effort  not to ridicule, not to bewail, not to scorn human actions, but to  understand them.\\"  Although he mentions a number of reasons human  perception goes awry, one of the key ones he cites is the exaltation of  wishful thinking- also known as faith.  As Nietzsche would say of anyone  who thought that the strength of one's conviction was proof of the truth of  one's conviction, a short stroll through an insane asylum might be just the  antidote.                  Ina culture inundated with a gamut of  extraordinary claims based on strongly held yet-not-so-strongly-examined  beliefs- where belief in the paranormal, supernatural, and extraterrestrial  is encouraged by much of popular cinema and media- Why People Believe Weird  Things is an invaluable tool for becoming a better critical thinker. (Or is  it? )              Yes, for X-files fans (myself included) it can often be  thrilling to imagine government conspiracies, classified alien  technologies, and occult phenomenon.  Unfortunately, there is no program on  the tube today (that I'm aware of) that makes it just as thrilling to  understand the roots of pseudoscience, pseudohistory, and superstition.                For now we have to content ourselves with a smattering of  outstanding books (Carl Sagan's Demon-Haunted World is another fine  example) that pull the curtains on much of what tries to pass muster as  truth- which turns out can be just as fun as credulously lapping up what  the latest series of gurus, psychobabblers, quacks, and charlatans have to  disperse in their plague of unreason.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R21LCPZKVT5OYD	1570621802	531031962	The Shambhala Guide to Sufism	Books	3	7	14	N	N	A Solid Summation, not so invigorating presentation	For those studying Islam, Ernst's introduction to the &quot;mystical&quot; tradition of tasawwuf provides a well-rounded overview of the significance of Sufi practices, interpretation, and philosophy.  He makes little attempt  to solidify the term &quot;Sufism,&quot; however, insisting that in  orientalist usage it has been a construct of recent origin, with the aim of  splitting the more highly respected esotericism from the  dry legalism of  Islam (partially in attempting to explain the Sufi tradition as an offshoot  of other mystical traditions, rather then &quot;native&quot; to Islam).    Ironically, many Islamicist reformers (which he traces to some extent from  the puritanical 'Abdul-Wahhab, who ravaged shrines of Sufi saints and Shi'a  notables in an effort to purify Islam of their perceived taint)  attempting  to excise  perceived extraneous and thus corrupting influences to pristine  Islam, have tried to do nearly the same thing. Though I find his  post-modernist disavowal to dismiss the fantastical elements of Islamic and  Sufi belief as tripe, and his over-reaching aim to find the most congenial  face of Islam all too typical, I felt I profited by reading Ernst's book.    His PhD training certainly didn't aid him in creative writing, however, and  if his stated purpose was to reach those outside of his specialty, his  style of writing is an abysmal failure.  But I suppose I am just spoiled by  those writers who are able to introduce novel angles towards longstanding  subjects,  who rather than writing merely from a skeletal outline, are able  to infuse their pages with chutzpah.  In other words, they provide a  helping of entertainment with their edification.       If he had gone so  far as to get out of the library (other than the few short and dull remarks  he makes about being present at a few Sufi functions), I thought that he  could have interviewed Sufi personalities, fans of qawwali (a type of Sufi  music), etc.  But I would suppose that would abolish the pretenses of the  &quot;objective&quot; scholar, disdainful of mere journalism, living solely  in a dimension of pure thought energy, free from emotion of any stripe.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	RW3BLNVN8G2ZS	0465014895	962096979	The Culture Of Fear: Why Americans Are Afraid Of The Wrong Things	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Viewing the House of Mirrors	Although at times I questioned the Chomskyian overtones of Glassner's implications about the ability of corporations and big money to determine the positions of such special lobbying groups as the NAMI, National  Alliance for the Mentally Ill, he did come out evenhanded.  When it came to  Dow Corning and the frivolous lawsuits over silicone breast implants, he  did expound upon the scientific reasons to doubt the anecdotal complaints  of &quot;metaphorical illnesses.&quot;  He also vindicates other industries  subject to unfounded criticism in his expose of the coverage of airline  safety. So, while he does not stay away from expressing his left of center  views, and  particularly his opinions on gun control, I was impressed by  his ability to avoid the tendency of some leftists to demonize industry.   Though my gut reaction is to groan at his social science perspective  towards human behavior, I realized that the biological explanations are not  necessarily to the exclusion of social science abstractions.  {A fun book  to read, which comes from the perspective of memes (rhymes with beams), is  The Virus of the Mind by Richard Brodie, as it gives a Darwinian metaphor  for how ideas spread, fear being primary amongst the spreaders.}  Rather  than being an attempt to theorize in any depth the psychological reasons  why Americans come to have unfounded fears, however, much of Glassner's  work details the misinformation and misapplication of statistics (as well  as downright fallacious stats) and &quot;expert&quot; sources for news  stories. At the same time, he does not use the media as a scapegoat, noting  that the media can be skeptical at times as well (though the dictum of  &quot;man biting a dog is news&quot; causes the headlines to be a house of  mirrors- entertainment and shock value taking priority over relevance and  resemblance to larger reality).  Lobbying groups and &quot;expert&quot;  kooks, even if their cause is worthy, can help obscure the larger issuesat  play, as well. He fittingly ends with the salient example of the Martian  invasion panic that took place in 1938, after Orson Well's radio program  &quot;War of the Worlds.&quot;    Fitting, because I wonder at times if the  media's function is to make us believe we are on another planet.   I can  only see Glassner's book as invaluable for those such as myself who like to  debate matters of public policy to take upon themselves a new level of  enlightened skepticism towards the latest &quot;crisis&quot; that isn't a  crisis, and the latest &quot;trend&quot; that isn't a trend (Though  Columbine didn't occur until after the book was in print, he does cover the  previous spate of school shootings, and note the anomalous nature of such  occurrences, and the decreasing statistical frequency lost in the emotive  hype).	2000-06-15
US	49352968	RYLN6ZH2SD5GB	0380728397	995875512	Don't Know Much About the Bible: Everything You Need to Know About the Good Book but Never Learned	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Even an Accursed Heathen (moi)  finds it of Value	In this commendable continuation of his &quot;Don't Know Much About&quot; series, Davis manages to appeal to a broad readership while remaining faithful to a degree of biblical criticism.  Though it is apparent in a few  passages that Davis wants to bring out the best in the Bible- when it comes  to matters of genocide, infant sacrifice, subordination of women, child  abuse, etc., for the most part he avoids apologetics, leaving the judgment  to the reader in dealing with the difficulty. In general, while he seeks to  derive timeless themes from the Bible, he acknowledges the work of many,  often anonymous, human hands in the Bible's creation, and in so doing  avoids making the Bible into a science textbook, or an unquestionable  fountain of morality.  And because he is freed from such solemn  bibliolatry, Davis is able to make amusing quips in his quest to bring up  the incongruent elements of the biblical narratives censored in Sunday  school, while attempting to retain the nugget o' knowledge hidden therein.                   There are two or three places, where I spotted a factual  slip-up, one having to do with his treatment of early Islam nearing the end  (a outre statement about Hassan and Hussayn), and another in reference to  the Gospels when he cites the possibility that it may have been a rich man  entering heaven when a cable enters the eye of a needle rather than a camel  (from another reading, there was a Jewish oral tradition from the Talmud  which had a parallel statement, except with a different animal).  But given  that his work is not directed at specialists, and given the rather weak  defense he gives at the end for believing in the God of the Bible (it's  about the capital F- Faith! Eternal life sounds better than the rest egh?   So you betta' believe it!), one shouldn't expect anything more than a  distillation of the work of other authors, bound to have a few slip-ups due  to unfamiliarity.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R2V83I8NXBH3IR	0684850753	4578723	The Undiscovered Mind: How the Human Brain Defies Replication, Medication, and Explanation	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Humpty Dumpty	While John Horgan gained notoriety (albeit not always of the positive variety) among the scientific community from the provocative thesis contained within his 1996 book The End of Science, his latest The  Undiscovered Mind qualifies his contention that science has neared its  apex, insofar as the brunt of fundamental discoveries may already have been  made.  Instead of delving into cosmology, physics, and biology as he did  previously, he focuses on dissecting the current level of progress within  neuroscience, making the case that it is far less developed than its  sibling fields.    This had to have been one of the most infuriating books  I've ever read, although I think at the same time it is one of the most  valuable ones.  Rather then kowtow and sing odes to the marvels of  neuroscience, he looks at some of its weakest links.  In the process he  develops some rather colorful descriptions of the theoretical problems of  consciousness and therapeutic questions of efficacy. The brain like Humpty  Dumpty can be taken apart, but can't be put back together again.   Irregularities and neurological diseases can demonstrably obliterate  portions of cognitive abilities, thus linking areas of the brain to the  capacity for such abilities, but this doesn't demonstrate how they are  integrated.   As Horgan surveys more than just the progress of laboratory  science, though, he gives good reason to be skeptical of the  pharmaceutical, psychiatric, and psychological industries, while clarifying  that if he came upon another depression, he would accept treatment.          He discusses the toll of psychosurgery in the first part of the 20th  century, and notes the sometimes macabre treatment that ensued from the  premise that psychopathology stemmed from underlying biology, while yet  stating that this is a reason for caution, not for an about face.  And when  it comes to anti-depressants he tries to make the case that much of their  effectiveness might stem from the placebo effect rather than any direct  synaptic influence.  When he turns to psychoanalysis and its competitors,  he reveals the methodological problems inherent in assessing such an  idiosyncratic treatment.  And interestingly he makes a comparison of  psychoanalysis with the burgeoning field of evolutionary psychology with  regards to testability, falsification, and other measures of scientific  precision.    Although he finds fault with the fractured face of the  neurosciences, his book is helpful in introducing the reader to the key  players in the ongoing debate, even if one doesn't particularly agree with  the Chicken Little approach.  To some extent, I see his critique of  neurobiological perspectives as being hyperbole, as it would not be  consonant with the more well-established Darwinian paradigm to explain the  brain in terms of angels dancing on pins, i.e. Horgan provides no  alternative, and as such doesn't wholly overthrow the present competing  hypotheses.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R2Q10PFG05SM1N	0060175966	418849151	The Professor and the Madman	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Exceptional Entertainment Value	Although I don't think this book has much by way of posing any particularly recondite questions (though it did lead to me formulating some of my own), it was entertaining nonetheless.  It is the story of a Civil  War Captain, Dr. Minor, trained in medicine at Yale, who eventually loses  his marbles and is committed.  After being released from the Government  Hospital for the Insane, he embarks on a transatlantic voyage to England,  where he ends up shooting a stranger one night due to his delusions of  persecution.  Being declared not-guilty by reason of insanity, he is  committed to an institution for almost the rest of his life, though during  that time he becomes involved in aiding the compilation of the OED, an  undertaking requiring the assistance of numerous volunteers.   Though Dr.  Minor suffered from interminable delusions of persecution, he had a far  amount of background in languages and literature which made him one of the  most valuable volunteers.    If you have an interest in language and  literature, it would likely be engrossing- at first glance surprising when  a typical preconception would be that anyone involved in such an arduous  and monotonous task as forming the largest dictionary in the English  language could possibly have an interesting biography	2000-06-15
US	49352968	RSZ02LBPXEJWP	185984054X	181218559	The Missionary Position: Mother Teresa in Theory and Practice	Books	5	17	32	N	N	charity done in stupidity	A quick, pithy read, and quite truly a well needed critical glance at the manufacture of a saint.  Even if we take it as a given that Mother Teresa was well-intentioned, there are several incongruities between the persona  presented by the media and Christians, and the actual person.  Mother  Teresa's association with Charles Keating, the S &amp; L embezzler, in  addition to her dealings with Haitian dictators all come under fire- and  with good reason seeing as at the time of the printing of the book Teresa's  organization had not returned any of Keating's embezzled donations to their  rightful owners.   Hitchens makes the case that Teresa's character has been  inviolate simply because of the vicarious alleviation of guilt over the  sufferings of the third world.  But just because Mother Teresa happened to  do something, would be neglecting to note whether her aid was effective  considering the resources available due to her prestige.  There is reason  to doubt this, due to the pathological austerity of the Sist'az of Caritas.    Hitchens makes a number of sapient points which reveal the insipid nature  of Teresa's ideology, as well as the intellectual poverty which seems to  have accompanied Teresa's vow of material poverty.  The bottom line is that  charity done in stupidity may actually be harmful in the long term, and  that many of Teresa's opinions are detestable in consideration of the side  effects of unrestrained population growth.   It may be the case that Mother  Teresa has just been one of the most mediagenic of proselytizers, and a  unthinking zealot, far from worthy of sentimental encomiums.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	REVVC1KPJQIEM	1573920614	539550681	In Search of the Light	Books	4	24	27	N	N	One More Reason why Psi doesn't Fly	Blackmore's autobiography provides a great deal of insight into the motivations of psi researchers.  Inspired by a drug induced OBE at Oxford, and encouraged by the occult interpretations given to such phenomenon by an  earlier generation of parapsychologists and spiritualists, it becomes  understandable that she began a search for the Holy Grail of psi, even  earning a doctorate on the subject.  Personal experience, however  explicable by reference to the material world, still carries a strong  emotive weight, engendering hopes for transcendent explanations.  Despite a continuing stream of negative results, using a wide variety of  methods, Blackmore continued for several years to research psi, until the  dishonesty of some researchers, and the flaws in psi's definition caused  her faith to erode.  Thankfully, she takes with her an insider's  understanding of the parapsychology movement that helps explain how a  pseudo-science can perpetuate itself after a hundred or more years with  undetectable progress.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R30EJYLV7OWGBU	073820076X	109662766	The Dark Side of Man: Tracing the Origins of Violence	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Lex Talionis leaves the World Blind	Ghiglieri convincingly points out the parallels in human behavior found in primatology, focusing on the capacity for our closest genetic relatives, the chimps, to literally murder, rape, and go to war.  Although I find the  third part of his book, which is focused on finding appropriate responses  to man's inherent biological capacity for violence to be rather polemical  tripe, his anthropological look at what is often considered as merely a  problem of socialization and environment is refreshing.   His assertion  that lex  talionis, &quot;eye for an eye&quot; justice is an antidote for  violent behavior within American society might better be encapsulated  within another book.  There are drawbacks to this approach that Ghiglieri  doesn't examine, and might better be addressed by someone experienced in  criminal psychology.  Also, when comparing the American criminal justice  system to systems in France and Saudi Arabia, it is best to entertain many  hypotheses for the ostensive differences in recidivism, crime rates, and  quality of life- surely the data is not so clear cut to always suggest a  cause and effect relationship between the harshness of punishment and the  subsequent levels of crime.  And this isn't even to mention the prickly  possibilities for human rights abuse, though certainly it is troubling to  see criminals released back to society only to claim more victims.   So in  short, while it is no coincidence that men are the vast majority of violent  offenders, and that the differing abilities of men to sire an infinite  amount of offspring, in comparison to women being limited has left its  traces on human psychology, facile answers aren't to be found.  Calling to  public opinion on the death penalty, as well as police departments, only  demonstrates that indignation is a protective response to maintain  reciprocal altruism in society- not that this means the death penalty will  be effective in the age of megalopolises.  Thus I don't see Ghiglieri'spronouncements on social policy to be as convincing as his empirical  evidence to suggest that violence predates civilization and its taint- M.  Mead be damned.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R1F1RH6QFG3CM	0879752289	560870673	In Defense of Secular Humanism	Books	4	15	26	N	N	Rightwingers on the Warpath	Paul Kurtz,  professor of philosophy, publisher of Prometheus Books, and editor of Free Inquiry, wrote this volume in the early 1980s, when the Moral Majority were on a war path against the &quot;religion&quot; of  Secular Humanism.  Though many of his articles are redundant, Kurtz's book  being a compilation, his rebuttal of much of the Religious Right's paranoia  is as refreshing today as it was then.  If the Secular Humanists were such  a power block, it would stand to reason that such organizations would have  far more than a few thousand members each. What the Falwells of the world  are reacting to, lumped together under the S.H. bogeyman, is the influence  of a broader humanism, which is attractive to many religionists who see  little contradiction with their beliefs.  The clock can't be turned back.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R2QD9ABO0ANLL5	0807845159	5697679	Blasphemy: Verbal Offense Against the Sacred, From Moses to Salman Rushdie	Books	3	5	7	N	N	How Free the Speech?	Were it not for the digressions into post-modernist chic, I might be able to give a more resounding endorsement.  Nevertheless, Levy did successfully acquaint the reader with the common court precedents for blasphemy in  British law, while furnishing modern examples such as the 1976 blasphemy  trial of a homosexual poet.   Though the traditional  branding, mutilation,  and execution of blasphemers has stopped in modern-day Britain, Levy points  out that the Anglican Church has argued for an extension of the outmoded  blasphemy laws to other religions in the wake of the Rushdie affair.   Rather than forego the Church of England's privileged status altogether,  the Archbishop of Canterbury proposed the use of government coercion to  protect all flights of lunatic fancy from their deserved ridicule.   Needless to say, the lack of separation of Church and State in Europe, and  the diluted freedom of speech provided by speech codes (e.g. laws against  the expression of unpopular speech, such as Holocaust denial) surely  constitute an important area of debate as far as the limitations of  freedom.   At present, the only US equivalent I can think of is the  attempts to mold hate crimes legislation.  Though certainly justice demands  proper sanctions for those who violate the rights of others, this acts to  punish criminals on the basis of their beliefs rather than actions.  What  next?  Love crimes legislation that reduce a person's sentence if the jury  thought they were acting for a more socially acceptable cause?	2000-06-15
US	49352968	RAMPZUS9E5R89	1568590296	329505225	Twenty Three Years: A Study of the Prophetic Career of Mohammad	Books	5	61	66	N	N	Euphemisms for Islam's falsehood	Although I had the sense throughout that 'Ali Dashti was tempering many of his scholarly conclusions to suit the easily outraged, his text still comes across as blisteringly blasphemous.  It is not surprising that 'Ali Dashti  &quot;disappeared&quot; in his home country of Iran when considering the  unorthodox approach he takes by interpreting much of the Qur'an as a  product of the Prophet Muhammad's psychology.   While Dashti doesn't  explicitly renounce Islam, he vigorously attacks precepts which he sees as  hideous relicts of the age the Prophet Muhammad lived.  While other  biographers of the Prophet, especially those writing to proselytize, might  be expected to gloss over the Prophet's assassinations, mass slaughters of  prisoners, and otherwise Machiavellian behavior Dashti puts it to the  light.  But at the same time, he doesn't neglect to mention the more  positive aspects of the Prophet's personality while attempting to cut  through the underbrush of the deification of the Prophet.   All in all a  refreshing read, though certainly one would do well to read several  biographies in comparison.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R2C10PRK8M6PSM	0922233179	902132442	Ken's Guide to the Bible	Books	4	14	18	N	N	A Holy Mockery of the Holy Writ	Smith's Guide shows that the bible can be fun to read- in abstract, with all of the &quot;violence, sex, absurdity, and weirdness&quot; arrayed before your eyes.  Rather than stumbling through &quot;begats&quot; Smith  provides the juicy tidbits which make a mockery of the moral  &quot;guidance&quot; provided by the Holy Writ, especially important in  Smith's view when political action groups claim a divine mandate for their  social views.  At the same time, he provides a good overview of the  progression (or jumbled mix as the case may be) of the bible, and the  thematic content of each book (a Cliff Notes with Spunk of Sorts). For  instance, he mentions an incident where the Prophet Elijah has a bear maul  forty-two children who laughed at him, and then the irony of pro-fetus  advocates utilizing the bible as any basis for rejecting abortion as sinful  (especially in the light of other incidents in which heathen are dispatched  with little ado by the Sky God- children and all).  For each incident  worthy of comedy, Smith has created several categories, so that when he  cites chapter and verse, he has an icon to show whether he lists it because  it is an example of weirdness, divine wrath, holy distortion, blood 'n'  guts, arrogant pretensions, &quot;family values,&quot; gender bashing, sex,  etc.   Another aspect that was entertaining was the use of classical  paintings and prints with biblical themes- one of my favorites being a  picture of the Four Horseman of the Apocalypse, with the comment  &quot;Hi-ho Pestilence!  Awaaay!&quot;	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R3VWKG9GGOQ1TX	0375403515	187858272	Within Reason: Rationality and Human Behavior	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Promises more than can deliver	The introduction was intriguing, with its references to the paradoxical barbarity that had manifested itself in a highly educated society like Nazi Germany,  but I had the impression that Calne tried to be too far reaching  in his attempts to fit rationality in its proper place within human  behavior.   One of his basic premises is that rationality is not an end in  itself, but rather a tool employed on the behalf of human instincts.  While  this certainly has a ring of truth to it, the thesis is by no means  radical, which is why I wonder if abler attempts have been made to dissect  the role of reason within human behavior.  I would recommend skimming  Calne's book if one had the opportunity to examine his major premises, but  otherwise I was left dissatisfied by my sense that the topic he was trying  to tackle was a much bigger fish than his line could handle.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	R39FGSOT90DXCV	0375401458	437006513	Night Falls Fast: Understanding Suicide	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A unique combination of personal experience and expertise	This superb introduction to suicidology is both authoritative and eloquent.  Jamison is a clinical psychologist who attempted suicide in her late twenties due to the ravages of her manic-depression, and thus has subjective insight in addition to the objective statistics that permit a  clinical description of suicide. In her estimation, from 90 to 95 percent  of suicides have diagnosable mental illnesses, primarily depression,  manic-depression, schizophrenia, personality disorders and/or substance  abuse.  She examines the various theorized causes and factors influential  in inciting a suicide, with an eye to dispelling myths and distortions. To  make her point that suicide is not synonymous with cowardice she cites the  historical example of Meriweather Lewis, of the Lewis and Clark expedition.   She further points out suicide's ability to take away the best and  brightest by continually quoting poetry and literature written by the  suicidal and/or those who ultimately succumbed to suicide, amongst whom are  some of the greatest authors and poets. Night Falls Fast is a fitting  sequel to Jamison's previous books on manic-depression, and her  autobiography, as she gives a rounded account of the varying influences of  culture, suicide prevention programs, mass media, religion, and  &quot;contamination&quot; on the alleviation or promotion of suicide.	2000-06-15
US	49352968	RK9C52OH57VY2	157392198X	43458608	The Origins of the Koran: Classic Essays on Islam's Holy Book	Books	4	21	32	N	N	Esoteric, and Limited in Audience	While this volume was a collection of scholarly essays, most over seventy or eighty years old, some parts of the essays have a continued relevance in refuting fundamentalism, besides being a portrait of the state of textual  criticism of the Qur'an in the earlier part of the 20th century.  The  essays taken as a whole provide sufficient evidence to doubt the orthodox  account of the Qur'an's origins, even though each individual scholar's take  on a sometimes murky subject is open to question.  One self-evident  shortcoming in the collection is a lack of modern essays (though I suppose  the subtitle might have served as a disclaimer) to shed light on the  current state of scholarship, but in the Introduction Ibn Warraq does make  reference to some of the movers and shakers, so an interested reader can  track down works by Cook and Crone, et al.  (As I recall there was a  Atlantic Monthly article which reported on developments, though I haven't  had a chance or desire to seek  out the seminal works for myself). But most  of the material seems to be from the sources that Ibn Warraq drew upon in  composing Why I am not a Muslim, a title echoing Bertrand Russell's  enjoyable collection of essays in Why I am not a Christian.  In terms of  locating the source of some of the obscurer passages in the Qur'an in the  Jewish midrash, Christian apocrypha, and even from Zoroastrianism, I found  it useful, though not likely to appeal to a very wide audience.     Distracting in the collection, however, is the numerous typographical  errors that litter the pages, making me increasingly wary of the publisher  Prometheus Books, though I have thought  of approaching them with my book  proposals due to the subject matter.  I have further quarrels with the  state of Ibn Warraq's Why I am not a Muslim, Fregosi's Jihad, and Taslima  Nasreen's Shame- the urge to give air to a critique of Islam, just because  it is a critique of Islam seems to have subverted quality control. But I  got my vocab word of the day- Heilgeschichte- salvation history (or so I  think, many of the German and French parts remaining untranslated)!  So I  suppose it wasn't a total loss, trudging through the sometimes onerous  reconstructions of Qur'anic orthography and philology.	2000-06-15
