US	49361134	R1MPRI816AWM8C	0451459873	144981880	Blood Rites (The Dresden Files, Book 6)	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Magic, Monsters, Mayhem, and Mirth	Butcher's back on top of his game, serving up a hard-hitting mix of magic, monsters, mayhem, and mirth in Book Six of the Dresden Files.  Blood Rites isn't as labored as Death Masks or as slow-moving as Summer Knight, harking back to the everything-but-the-kitchen-sink exploits of Grave Peril.  Harry Dresden's in fine form, firmly planting his clod-busting stompers where angels fear to tiptoe, and compulsively cracking wise every feisty step of the way. <br /> <br />The bulk of the action-and it's pretty steroidal stuff-is crammed into the space of three days.  The basic plot comprises two intertwined storylines.  Three, counting the puppy, but he's more a combination of comic relief, future stage-setting, and probably-unintended red herring, dropped into the Blue Beetle's backseat and out of the story entirely for a hundred pages before inexplicably resurfacing in Harry's apartment.  Continuity, continuity.  Never mind, he's cute anyway.  So's the puppy. <br /> <br />So, two storylines.  First, White Court vampire Thomas asks Harry to seek and destroy a suspected entropy curse stalking Thomas' movie-producer friend.  Then, before Harry even meets his new client, he learns the hard way that Black Court vampire Mavra is in town, hot for his blood.  Literally.  When the producer turns out to be a porn king, and Thomas turns out to have far more ties to the case than he let on, and Harry ends up eyeball-deep in the private family business of virtually everyone involved-including, quite unexpectedly, himself-it only adds to the general pandemonium. <br /> <br />Be warned: most of the main characters have figured in previous Dresden cases, and Butcher wastes minimal words on back story.  Harry's partnership with police lieutenant Karrin Murphy is developing nicely, whether she ultimately replaces ex-flame Susan or not.  Hired gun Kincaid, who barely registered in Masks, is shaping up as an unfeeling assassin to cheer for, though readers may find that his revealed past takes some of the fun out of his behavior.  Best of all, Butcher hasn't forgotten that even the prettiest people-eater-male or female-is creepy, dangerous, and fundamentally not-human.  With continued fleshing-out, his trio of vampire courts grows increasingly less likely to please hard-core undead sensualists or traditionalists, but his creations make thrice-damned, triple-threat, bloody righteous monsters by any other name, so why sweat the technicalities? <br /> <br />For Harry fans, Blood Rites scores big.  The fast pace and light storytelling touch play to Butcher's strengths, making it easier to overlook pesky little writing lapses (not knowing how few days until Saturday, or how many films Genosa has shot, or what \\"ne\\" means; taking off a coat twice in three short paragraphs, then spacing out on the garish shirt underneath; getting the Beetle back from the mechanic, who never had it in the first place; to mention a few).  At the same time, there are enticing glimpses of the dark wings beating ever more strongly about the edges of Harry's soul.  He and readers get substantial new chunks of his past along the way, too.  Great game! <br />	2004-08-25
US	49361134	R137645E1536DX	0060505680	923775450	The Assassin's Edge: The Fifth and Final Tale of Einarinn	Books	3	10	10	N	N	A Few Slips, But Not A Bad Tumble	McKenna's series-ender is enjoyable but not outstanding.  Prominently billed as \\"the fifth and final tale of Einarinn,\\" there are signs throughout The Assassin's Edge that the author was basically ready to move on.  Conversely, the book seems to be as much a foreshadowing of further Einarinn tales as a conclusion to the current saga.<br />Gambler and thief Livak, who opened the series and established much of its tone, also closes it out as first-person narrator in Edge.  She and lover Ryshad have spent a quiet winter setting up housekeeping in Kellarin, where Ryshad serves as advisor to young Sieur Temar D'Alsennin and generally makes himself indispensable.  Now, spring planting and construction activities are turning Livak's thoughts toward what kind of future the still-struggling colony might offer someone with her rather unconventional skills and interests.  She has a few ideas, and they definitely don't include making a career of keeping house.  Before she can put her plans in motion, however, a new crisis besets the colony: piracy.<br />Kellarin's survival depends on a regular exchange of goods and supplies with the Empire.  Occupying a mid-ocean island base, pirate leader Muredarch has blocked that vital flow of trade.  Wiping out the base to remove the block is easier said than done.  Temar won't risk Kellarin's independence by asking any of the Empire's noble Houses for aid, and Archmage Planir decides that Hadrumal's wizards should sit this one out.  With help from Livak's old mercenary friends and a few independent-minded Hadrumalians, the colony mounts its own small but determined campaign.<br />During a preliminary sortie, the Kellarins learn that Muredarch's success is due in part to Elietimm magic.  His secret backer is the same vicious Ice Islander who's been plaguing the Empire and Kellarin for more than two years.  Not a threat the colonists can counter by force, but a hand-picked assassination team just might do the trick.<br />This book seems rushed compared to the first four; it could easily have been spun into at least one more installment if McKenna had given it her usual treatment.  Edge spends less time than its predecessors on vibrant place and character sketches; reader opinion may split over whether that's good or bad, but it's certainly noticeable.  Pacing and plotting are also less carefully managed than in earlier books, twin weaknesses apparent in both the big picture and the little details: the foundation for, or follow-through of, storyline elements is often inadequate.  Finally, there are too many secondary narrative voices without enough overall continuity.<br />On the plus side, the physical action in Edge is vigorous and creative.  Magic is back in all three flavors: the colonists' ancient Artifice, its Elietimm variant, and the newer magecraft of Hadrumal.  McKenna's decision to avoid a too-pat ending is typical of the fresh fantasy perspective that's helped make the series so entertaining.  The Assassin's Edge could have been better, but a writer of McKenna's wit and talent can afford a few slips without coming anywhere near a bad tumble.	2004-04-26
US	49361134	R12AE5J19LLYXS	0451459407	962252105	Death Masks (Dresden Files)	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Ambitious, Entertaining, Absorbing ... Uneven	Harry's back on the case in the Dresden Files, Book Five.  &quot;Death Masks&quot; brings back many familiar faces, too - good, bad, and indeterminate.  Butcher has returned to a storytelling device he pulled off perfectly in &quot;Grave Peril:&quot; various, apparently-unrelated bits of action are tossed together early on, leaving Harry to sort them into some kind of sense throughout the rest of the book.  Not so perfectly this time.  And readers who especially enjoy the more arcane aspects of Harry's exploits may feel a little deprived; the magic is slow in coming and mostly low-key.<br />There's no lack of plot material.  A stolen Shroud of Turin and a challenge to a duel are the biggest pieces.  Cops, corpses, demons, Knights, lover, mentor, mob, thieves, vampires, and miscellaneous other friends and foes figure in somewhere.  It ought to work better.<br />&quot;Masks&quot; may be the least successful Dresden File to date.  Butcher continues to expand his exploration into darker, more adult themes.  Ambitious, but he doesn't handle the grimmer stuff as expertly as he manages the fun.  He pulls his punches in a few key places, and he can't seem to decide which way he wants certain characters to go.  Serious themes aren't as forgiving of weak writing as humor is.<br />The problems aren't limited to the darker plot lines.  Overall, the story is just plain uneven.  It isn't as cleverly plotted as &quot;Peril.&quot;  Its pace is choppy.  The title itself isn't as evocative as usual.  Continuity errors are up again, too.  The biggest involves major déjà vu over the shroud's buyer in Chapter 27; been there, Chapter 19.  Most are niggling annoyances, like the two times Harry drops his blasted - er, blasting - rod and fails to reclaim it before exiting the scene.<br />Broken-record time.  Yes, it's fantasy, but Butcher still puts too much gratuitous strain on the willing suspension of disbelief.  Especially if he wants to be taken seriously.  Several characters strikerandom false notes (Michael laughs at that?).  Events don't always ring true, either.  Many clinkers are minor (Harry dances in those shoes?), but a few - like the whole river-jump-from-speeding-train bit - are pretty substantial.<br />On the plus side, Butcher doles out more tantalizing tidbits about Harry's past.  Harry's present is finally showing long-overdue signs of more control over his power and his pocketbook.  There's the usual fun sprinkling of future plot hints.  And while Butcher needs to work on his command of mature themes like passion, sacrifice, obsession, and damnation, his grasp of the worlds of magic and mayhem remains as robust as ever.  His humor, where appropriate, is in top form.<br />Death Masks has some great moments.  Its mysteries aren't as well-executed as in Peril, but they're entertaining and absorbing.  Butcher writes well, when he chooses.  And the series' emerging dark side is not unwelcome.  Mixing humor and drama is much harder than writing in either vein alone, but lends far more dimension to stories and characters; once Butcher gets the hang of it, readers will follow Harry anywhere.	2003-08-31
US	49361134	R2HMLV7CUZPXF0	0060505664	629884050	The Warrior's Bond (Tale of Einarinn)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Lives of the Rich and Noble	McKenna's fourth tale of Einarinn covers the same timeframe as The Gambler's Fortune, focusing on Ryshad Tathel's activities in Tormalin while lover Livak is off in the west.  While retaining all the color and texture of earlier books, The Warrior's Bond offers some departures from the norm as well.  For one thing, it does very little traveling, with most of its action set in the capital city of Toremal.<br />Ryshad's first-person narration isn't yet on a par with Livak's, but comes across well enough.  He's been elevated from sworn man to chosen man by Messire D'Olbriot; one more step up to proven man will give him the wherewithal for the life he wants with Livak.  His viewpoint alternates with two others in third-person.  One belongs to wizard Casuel Devoir, still trying to advance his own fortunes and still as delightfully odious as ever. The other is from colonist Temar D'Alsennin, on his first mainland visit and having trouble adjusting to a changed world after his centuries-long sleep.<br />Temar and a fellow colonist plan to meet assorted nobles and present a case for assisting the colony.  A third of the colony's members remain locked in limbo, with the ancient artifacts holding their consciousness yet to be recovered from among the noble Houses.  Equally important, the colony's long-term survival depends on establishing mainland trade and other alliances.  Though the Elietimm threat still looms, Ryshad and Casuel are temporarily reassigned by their respective masters to watch over Temar as he tries to navigate modern Empire life.<br />As usual in a McKenna story, things start to go wrong almost immediately.  Temar's ship nearly founders right outside the harbor.  His sample trade goods are plundered from their dockside warehouse.  He's attacked by an unidentified assailant.  Ryshad is set up for a warrior's challenge.  Several noble Houses file suits to wrest all control of the colony away from D'Olbriot and from Temar himself.  Are these incidents related?If so, who's behind them, and why?  Ryshad struggles to get to the bottom of things, while at the same time serving the interests of both D'Olbriot and Temar, all of which only seems to get him deeper into trouble and further away from achieving his own goal.<br />Previous books have focused on the lives of common folk, or on wizards, foreigners, time-displaced colonists, or other unusual groups; here McKenna turns her writer's talents loose on the lives of the rich and noble.  Readers get a good look at Tormalin nobility through the widely differing perspectives of Ryshad, Temar, and Casuel.  Magic takes a backseat to political and social machinations.  As one character tells Temar, \\"[i]t's a different kind of danger, but it's just as real for your colony.\\"  It's just as real for readers, too, and well-told, as always.  McKenna's control over plotting errors remains phenomenal given the complexity of her stories; control over printing errors-like inappropriate question marks-is less than perfect, but who's going to sweat such picky stuff with fine tales like these?	2003-03-06
US	49361134	REOBFPTG0TSJF	0061020370	85444315	The Swordsman's Oath: The Second Tale of Einarinn (The Tales of Einarinn)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Absorbing Tale, Satisfying Ending	The Swordsman's Oath, the second tale set in McKenna's world of Einarinn, is every bit as rich and colorful as her debut.  The core conflict-driver-the urgent need to understand and neutralize the ancient magic of the blond strangers known alternately as Elietimm, Ice Men, or Ice Islanders-has ratcheted the main action up a notch.  Still, for some readers, this book may fall a little short of the standard that McKenna established in The Thief's Gamble.<br />First-person narration of the central storyline has shifted from gambler and thief Livak to professional swordsman Ryshad.  Unfortunately, he has only limited opportunity to apply his swordsmanship toward the actual advancement of the story, though his recently acquired Old Empire blade plays a key role.  He's very like Livak in some ways: smart, courageous, cool-headed, with a strong sense of honor.  Born to a rather higher station in life than she, his more respectable upbringing and twelve years in service to his patron prince have given him better-polished speech and behavior, despite his rough-and-tumble profession.  His occasional ruminations on a possible future with Livak are among several minor details that sometimes make him seem more girlish than she's ever been.<br />Some months after the end of the previous book, by special request of Archmage Planir, Ryshad's patron loans him to the Hadrumal wizards for the duration of the Elietimm crisis.  Having sworn to avenge the death of his friend Aiten, in addition to his basic oath of service, this arrangement suits Ryshad well enough.  He's to join wizard Shivvalan, sent to retrieve a cache of Old Empire artifacts from retired wizard Viltred.  A band of Elietimm raid Viltred's home and claim the artifacts.  Ryshad and the wizards take off in pursuit, detouring only to collect a very reluctant Livak after Viltred casts an augury suggesting she still has a role to play against the Elietimm.  From there on, they get swept up in events over which they have little or no control.<br />There are two substantial chunks of storyline in The Swordsman's Oath that pretty much bring the main action to a dead halt as they unfold.  Ryshad's little side trip into slavery strains readers' belief at several points, and skirts perilously close to plain silliness at certain moments, though at others it makes fairly gripping reading.  The history of the Old Empire's lost colony is more germane and generally more compelling, but takes an unnecessarily long time to get to the important parts, and raises assorted storyline issues on some of the finer details.<br />Such quibbles aside, the tale McKenna tells here is an absorbing one, with a satisfying ending that sets up interesting possibilities for future installments.  Solving the mystery of the lost colony yields important information about the ancient magic the wizards have been struggling to understand, and the Elietimm themselves are beginning to emerge from the shadows in which their activities have been cloaked.  They're shaping up to be wicked fun bad guys.	2003-03-06
US	49361134	R2AB92OK34OP0G	0380819023	656753993	The Gambler's Fortune: The Third Tale of Einarinn (The Tales of Einarinn)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Tales of Forest Folk and Mountain Men	With each new installment, McKenna's reason for subtitling her series as \\"tales of Einarinn\\" becomes increasingly evident: the world itself shares center stage with events and characters.  There's ample action in The Gambler's Fortune, but like its predecessors it's best appreciated by readers whose taste for adventure includes a hunger to explore new places and cultures in addition to a thirst for intrepid exploits.<br />Livak has returned as first-person narrator, like a welcome breath of fresh air.  She seems much more natural than currently-absent associate and lover Ryshad.  Maybe that's the nature of her personality, or maybe a female point of view just comes more naturally to McKenna.  Livak's storyline is intercut with three others told in third-person: an in-depth view of life among the Mountain Men, or Anyatimm, as they call themselves; the most revealing look to-date at the elusive Elietimm; and glimpses of Archmage Planir's ongoing machinations back in Hadrumal.<br />Livak has entered the pay of Messire D'Olbriot, Ryshad's patron prince, who continues to pool resources with Planir against the Elietimm.  One thing they've learned is that the ancient magic now being called \\"Artifice\\" is deeply rooted in the oldest races still living on Einarinn.  Livak has convinced D'Olbriot to send her on a fact-finding mission among two of those reclusive groups, with wizard Usara along to represent Planir.  Figuring her mixed blood will gain entrée among the Forest Folk, she recruits a pair of old friends, brothers Sorgrad and Sorgren, to help with the Mountain Men.  She's angling for a discovery big enough to net a fortune in bonus money from D'Olbriot and Planir.  Incidentally, she expects her quest to take her well away from further confrontation with the Elietimm, but there she's proven abysmally wrong.  In fact, while the most obvious \\"gambler's fortune\\" here is Livak's hoped-for bonus, the book's title applies equally well to her changing fortunes on the road.<br />The time among the Forest Folk is interesting, productive, and not without its tense moments, but the Mountain Men really drive The Gambler's Fortune.  Livak has remarked in previous books on the strong resemblance between the Elietimm and her friends Sorgrad and Sorgren.  The storylines here tie both peoples firmly together.  Through the Anyatimm, McKenna also  tells a tale with echoes common to aboriginal peoples of any time or place: heedlessly overrun and gradually supplanted by empire-building outsiders.  She declines to let the blame be entirely one-sided, however; if the Anyatimm are indeed doomed, it's due as much to their own tradition-bound inflexibility as to outside influences.<br />As always, McKenna's writing is rich and colorful.  Her characters continue to evolve.  She's settled into a measured pace rather slower than some readers might prefer, but there's plenty to see along the way between crises.  The incidence of minor basic writing glitches has increased slightly since McKenna's first book, but that's fairly common and not particularly noticeable here.  The Gambler's Fortune leaves readers with much to think about and even more to look forward to.	2003-03-06
US	49361134	R27Q1LD64FSYPC	0061020362	467408758	The Thief's Gamble (Tales of Einarinn, Book 1)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Fantasy Series With Attitude and Wit	In her debut novel, McKenna weaves a rich and complex tapestry of a world, against which she spins a colorful and engaging adventure yarn.  The Thief's Gamble introduces a new, pre-industrial-period fantasy series with attitude and wit.<br />Livak, first-person narrator of the main storyline, has spent ten years building a life as a professional thief, gambler, and con artist.  She's smart, gutsy, practical, and has a well-developed sense of honor.  Given her past, her outlook predictably edges toward cynical, but she manages to retain a dry sense of humor.  She's often underestimated because of her sex, something she uses to good advantage.<br />To replenish her dwindling funds while awaiting an overdue confederate, Livak gambles on being able to successfully steal, and then peddle to some traveling antiquities dealers, a minor artifact from the Old Tormalin Empire.  Unfortunately, the dealers recognize the item, having already tried to purchase it from its rightful owner.  Worse, they're really agents for the famed wizards of Hadrumal, whose magical powers don't dismay Livak nearly as much as their purposeful single-mindedness.  Next thing Livak knows, she's working for them, contracted to steal other artifacts they aren't able to buy outright.<br />McKenna wastes no time on extended background discussion; readers are tossed into the story like swimmers diving blindly into mid-river, puzzling out the way of the currents and the lay of the land to either side while simultaneously trying to remain afloat as events move along.  After Livak's initial gamble, the stakes keep getting raised.  What started as a simple matter of thievery escalates into physical danger when she, her new partners, and others around them are repeatedly harried and attacked by a mysterious bunch of brutal blond strangers.  Bodies begin to pile up.<br />Despite the book's length, McKenna's writing is surprisingly lean.  Neither she nor her characters are given to flowery phrasings.  The storytakes so long to relate because McKenna really has that much story to tell.  Several stories, in fact, some of which unfold as Livak meets up with various characters, while others take place in third-person alternate narration centering on Hadrumal's Archmage Planir and on the arrogant and incompetent wizard Casuel Devoir.  The artifacts and the blond strangers are the key links, revealing glimpses of a powerful ancient magic that isn't as dead as the wizards first thought, and of a massing threat to the rebuilt Empire.<br />This is an amazing debut, with tight plotting and very few of the typical basic writing errors.  McKenna's chosen a difficult route in deciding to keep the story moving rather than halting the action for lengthy and potentially tedious foundation work, but she handles it well.  There may be some very slight stumbles as readers grope to make sense of where the ever-expanding web of events is leading, but after all, Livak and her associates are in pretty much the same fix.  The Thief's Gamble sketches out an intriguing conflict to be further explored in future books.	2003-03-06
US	49361134	R3SHBQL9U0D7FS	0671036114	144897886	Tenebrea Rising	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Patient Readers Will Be Rewarded	Book Three of the Tenebrea Trilogy reads like it was rushed to print before it was fully polished.  Tenebrea Rising delivers up some nice moments and a satisfying enough action climax, but ends far too abruptly and with far too many dangling plot threads.  Its first half doesn't quite live up to the promise of Tenebrea's Hope, though it overcomes its early failings as events move along.  The title is puzzling: the Tenebrea aren't really involved much after their initial rescue, and the authors don't particularly follow through on the implied theme of gradually rising fortunes.<br />Andrea and her team save the imprisoned Tenebrea, but then she learns the full extent to which K'Rin has used her and others for his own ends.  Torn between heartache and rage, she breaks with the Tenebrea and swears to kill K'Rin if she ever sees him again.  Considering her own ruthlessness in using others, she really shouldn't be throwing stones.<br />The Ordinate hit Jod, obliterating most of the fleet, pulverizing the capital, and annihilating the government.  Then the Chelle make their own first move into open war with Jod, while Cor Admiral Brulk returns home to rebuild his intentionally sacrificed fleet and forces.  K'Rin takes over as both military and civilian leader on Jod, making plans to wage a dual campaign against Cor and Chelle.<br />With Brigon, Eric, and Andrea overdue in returning to Cor, a crippled Tara leads the starving outlaw clones out of their wilderness retreat to fight the Ordinate at close quarters again.  While she's finalizing the details of their proposed assault, the Tenebrea rescue team at last rejoins her with much-needed supplies, equipment, and tactical support  from K'Rin.  He needs the clones to help wipe out the Ordinate before Brulk gets back to fighting trim.  Andrea comes along only as a favor to Brigon, wanting nothing more to do with K'Rin even at a distance.<br />After waiting all the way through Tenebrea's Hope for some major plot action, readers are again left waiting too long before things finally break in Tenebrea Rising.  In the early chapters, the writing seems more clumsy and repetitive than in either previous book.  References to prior events don't always agree with earlier accounts.  As in Hope, there are too many scattered points of view, with choppy transitions that make it hard for readers' attention to remain engaged.  Neither Andrea nor K'Rin shows up often enough or long enough to serve as a necessary anchor for the other story lines.<br />Once again, though, the patient reader is rewarded; the second half of the book is substantially better than the first.  Except for one noble sacrifice, the key characters all get the outcomes they deserve.  There are occasional philosophical asides and small action vignettes that rise above the rest of the story and show what the authors might accomplish after a bit more seasoning.  The Chelle provide some welcome comic relief.  Additional follow-up books might be expected.	2002-12-31
US	49361134	R21SBQK2YDZC5A	0671036092	861457833	Tenebrea's Hope (Tenebrea Trilogy #2)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Hope for the Tenebrea is also Hope for Andrea	Tenebrea's Hope is a reward for readers who made it through Entering Tenebrea without giving up on the series.  Book Two of the Tenebrea Trilogy is definitely better than its predecessor, despite an ending that's a wee bit trite and anticlimactic, and fails to deliver any major plot payoff.<br />The story picks up with Andrea Flores and renegade clone Tara in mid-flight away from the wreckage they generated on Cor.  Blowing up the clone institute seemed the only way to buy time for mounting a full offensive against the Ordinate's NewGen clones, but it also blew Andrea's cover and K'Rin's plans for mobilizing the Jod Council in secrecy.  Under ambitious Admiral Brulk, the Ordinate traces the saboteurs back to Jod and seizes the initiative.  Accusing Jod of incitement to war, Cor gains a political weapon in lieu of the NewGen forces it lost.<br />Still too closed-minded to understand the real threat, Jod Council leader Pl'Don sees the Ordinate mess as an excellent opportunity to destroy his long-standing opponent K'Rin, along with the Tenebrea and the entire Rin clan.  Expecting to take a Council seat as leader of any potential fight against Cor, K'Rin instead finds himself and most of his men taken by surprise and packed off to a prison planet.  Worse, a traitor in K'Rin's ranks has told Pl'Don about the Tenebrea's use of the illegal Quazel protein; with no access to the necessary counteracting enzyme, the prisoners are doomed to a gruesome and lingering death.<br />Cooling her heels in a hidden outpost with fellow Tenebrea H'Roo and escaped clones Tara and Eric, Andrea is spared from Pl'Don's trap.  She and her companions are now the Tenebrea's best hope.  There's hope for her, too, as-almost against her will-she finds herself beginning to care again about the fates of those around her.  Suddenly her life's mission of killing as many Ordinate as she can is sidelined by her need to spring K'Rin and the Tenebrea.  She does return to Cor as she promised outlaw clone Brigon in Entering Tenebrea, but it's to recruit his assistance in the great escape rather than to fight the Ordinate.  Meanwhile, Cor is preparing to sandbag Jod in pretty much the same way that Pl'Don took out K'Rin and most of his men-a nicely ironic touch.<br />The story lines in Tenebrea's Hope are much more scattered than in Entering Tenebrea.  Where most of the action in the previous book was focused on either Andrea or K'Rin, those perspectives are joined here by alternating sections centering on Pl'Don, Brigon, Brulk, and a number of other minor characters as well.  The increased plot complexity helps to conceal the believability issues that still crop up from time to time, but the transitions are choppy and continuity sometimes suffers.  As in the first book, the characters and situations are absorbing enough to ensure that most readers will be back to see how all those cliffhangers are resolved in the final installment of the trilogy.	2002-12-31
US	49361134	R5A995AA8M6P0	0671036076	790314840	Entering Tenebrea (Tenebrea Trilogy #1)	Books	3	9	11	N	N	A State of Mind as Much as a Series of Events	The first book of a projected trilogy, Entering Tenebrea is not a truly great read, but it shows increasing promise as the story unfolds, especially for readers willing to cut a pair of relative rookies some slack.<br />Earth belongs to the Alliance, a largely alien planetary union now debating membership for the Ordinate, a human civilization found on the planet Cor some years ago.  Little is known about the secretive Ordinate, except that it arose from an ancient alien experiment to study the impact of advanced Alliance technology on humans, and it now relies extensively on cloned slave labor-illegal in the Alliance.  Alliance governments see cloning as the only issue.  To a few scattered individuals, however, the Ordinate poses a deeper threat.<br />For Terran Andrea Flores, a perfect life is derailed when her husband and daughter die in a terrorist attack.  Witness to the attack is Jod Admiral Hal K'Rin, on the outs with his planetary Council for continuing his father's anti-Ordinate crusade.  K'Rin takes Andrea under his wing, eventually offering her a chance to join his Tenebrea.  The Tenebrea have long been Clan Rin's household guard, but also serve as an elite special force for the regular Jod militia.  One Tenebrea function is riding herd on Ordinate agents among the Alliance worlds.  K'Rin knows, and Andrea learns, that the alleged terrorist attack was really an Ordinate operation.  K'Rin also heard recently that Cor is developing a new order of highly dangerous clones.  His source is clone escapee Eric, who's seeking aid for his fellow old-order clones, now being phased out.  Can K'Rin trust such a source?<br />The Roman Catholic \\"Tenebrae\\" (misspelled by the authors) is a rite of mourning and darkness, commemorating Christ's crucifixion.  Why an alien military group is named after an old Latin word is never explained, but for Andrea Flores \\"entering Tenebrea\\" describes a state of mind as much as a series of events.  Considering herself as dead as her family, she wants only to kill as many of the killers as she can, commemorating her own loss.  She must earn her commission, though; after rigorous training, only the best candidates become Tenebrea, with a commitment that's absolute and life-long.  Her first mission is to infiltrate Cor, join the renegade clone underground, confirm Eric's claims, and escape with proof in hand.<br />Much of the early set-up to Entering Tenebrea is too contrived to ring true, grating against the willing suspension of disbelief that makes for a successful novel.  Once past the troublesome set-up chapters, however, the characters, social systems, and situations are absorbing enough to help the reader focus on action, not analysis.  Some later plot elements still don't pass close scrutiny, and there are occasional chronology and continuity errors, but it becomes easier to ignore them.  The writing style is serviceable if uninspired, with only the average assortment of basic writing errors.  By story's end, the patient reader will almost certainly want to see how the remaining two installments of the trilogy shape up.	2002-12-31
US	49361134	R1B5WBCK4S7IIH	0441008933	149450515	Ship of Fools	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Stylish and Provoking	Richard Paul Russo's latest work, Ship of Fools, is as much a philosophical exploration-or simply a mood piece-as it is a tale of fiction.  As always, Russo breathes a gritty authenticity into the people, places, and social system of Ship of Fools.  Unfortunately, the book fails to fall neatly into any conventional science fiction niche.  Not heroic enough for space opera, not intense enough for horror, not comprehensive enough as a dystopian treatise, and not revealing enough as a tale of alien contact, the book is stylish and thought-provoking but raises more questions than it attempts to answer and sets up more potential story lines than it bothers to pursue.  Fans expecting something like Russo's Carlucci books, or relying too much on the back-cover synopsis or reviewers' quotes, are likely to end up disappointed.  Readers who enjoy observing how a master writer creates and manipulates the fabric of a story, or exploring their own beliefs and tenets through the thoughts of others, will find the book rich indeed.<br />The human generation ship Argonos has been in space for hundreds of years.  Its original purpose is murky.  Its aging mechanical systems are gradually falling apart.  Its tightly closed social system consists of a working class which performs the labor necessary to keep machines and society functioning, and a ruling class which peripherally includes ship's crew and clergy.  Tensions are running high between classes and among the various ruling class factions.<br />Argonos picks up a radio signal from a nearby planet.  At this point, the ship really needs a habitable world in order to re-provision if nothing else.  An exploration party finds the planet habitable but no longer inhabited.  A cache of grisly human remains among a cluster of strange buildings hints at an alien menace, but no records can be found to explain what has happened.<br />When the transmitter that drew Argonos to the planet begins sending out a different signal, the ship's leaders decide to follow up.  This takes Argonos to another vast starship, clearly alien and apparently derelict.  Teams are sent to systematically investigate the vessel, thus leading to the story's climax.<br />Russo's main themes are evil, particularly the evil outside versus the evil within; nobility, duty, or whatever else provides the motivation for people to rise above self-interest and serve a greater cause; and how a closed society breeds lifestyle abnormalities along with genetic abnormalities.  Russo's characters directly or indirectly question God, the status quo, the value of individual lives, and man's place in the universe in general, with varying degrees of resolution before the tale's end.  Ship of Fools provides no big, emotionally satisfying payoff, but offers an absorbing read nevertheless.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	R2BZP57U8IRJ4C	0451458559	806612847	Shockball: A Stardoc Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	What a Family Tree	Readers who particularly enjoy Viehl's colorful and eccentric aliens, and her high-tech settings, may feel somewhat deprived by this fourth StarDoc novel.  Cherijo and Duncan spend most of it on alien-challenged Terra, and much of it in decidedly low-tech surroundings.  There are several compensations, though.<br />There are people who write horror stories for a living and still never manage to dream up a monster as twisted as Joseph Grey Veil.  Shockball delivers a lot of new information about his genetic experimentation, his motivations, his personality, and his predilections.  It sure isn't pretty, but it's great reading, in a bent sort of way.<br />Some of what she learns about Joe will affect Cherijo's ongoing adventures.  Viehl lays the groundwork for other future story lines in Shockball as well.  There's the cache of data disks that Maggie left for Cherijo to retrieve.  There's also a rather belabored point about Duncan's anomalous kidney function, which may reflect a secret about his past.  Poor proofreading and Viehl's history of basic writing errors make it impossible to be certain, but smart money says there's at least one clue that Shockball leaves fewer dead bodies than readers might expect.  There's something about Cherijo's reproductive situation that indicates either future plot twists or poorly rationalized plotting.  Then of course there's the not-quite-surprise at story's end.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	R2V5W8304DHBF4	0451457935	705704096	Beyond Varallan (Stardoc II)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An Action-Packed Ride	This sequel to StarDoc ups the ante on fast-paced action scenes, to good effect.  As long as readers don't scrutinize it too closely, it's a fine ride.<br />The former Cherijo Grey Veil has rejected everything about the man who gave her life.  Now Cherijo Torin, she's been adopted into the HouseClan of her dead Jorenian lover, and travels as a healer aboard their starship, the Sunlace.  Joseph Grey Veil used his influence to have her declared non-sentient-but very valuable-property.  With a price on her head, the entire Allied League of Worlds is on her tail.<br />Bad enough that the Sunlace has to dodge and run from League pursuers.  Even worse, someone is sabotaging the ship from within.  A final message from a crewman who dies investigating one of the incidents points a finger at the only five non-Jorenians on board, four of whom are Cherijo and her companions (oops; in StarDoc, Cherijo noted a surprising number of unfamiliar alien species on Sunlace).<br />To cap things off, Cherijo has relationship problems with certain shipmates.  Fellow healer (and alien) Squilyp might have been up for promotion to Senior Healer until Cherijo came along; his people-skills have never matched his medical abilities, but now he holds a special antipathy for Cherijo.  She's also still butting heads with linguist Duncan Reever, who left K-2 with the Sunlace after making himself a League target by helping Cherijo; there's some kind of weird attraction going on between them, and she doesn't trust him-or herself-one bit.  Then there's Xonea Torin, Kao's ClanBrother, who also seems increasingly attracted to Cherijo but reminds her all too much of her dead lover.<br />That takes care of the first hundred pages of Beyond Varallan.  The rest of the book is peppered with external and internal attacks on Sunlace and her crew, mechanical explosions and emotional blow-ups, misunderstandings and misplaced blame.  There's a series of murders, apparently unrelated except for using the same inexplicable method.  Cherijo is drugged and assaulted several times.  Trailing mercenaries keep finding the Sunlace despite all evasive course plotting.<br />Viehl still is less than a master at either word use or grammar, but her basic writing skills have improved some since StarDoc.  Her plotting is also tighter.  Her action sequences are pulse-pounders, her characters are memorable, and she pulls off some nice plot twists along the way.  In between action sequences, some of the plot's supporting foundations are on the thin side.  The title makes no sense.  The design and operating characteristics of the Sunlace are improbable.  The strictures of Choice are too Draconian for belief, and the way Cherijo is repeatedly boxed in by them wears thin for readers long before Viehl tires of the device.  Neither the League's support of the notoriously xenophobic Joseph Grey Veil, nor the entire planet of Joren's support of Cherijo, is adequately explained.  The set-up for the next book violates established expectations.  So what?  Don't sweat the small stuff; just sit back and enjoy the ride.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	RTC2OWH99JKKO	0451458141	200427283	Endurance (A Stardoc Novel)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	No, Read It--Really	This third StarDoc novel, which finds Cherijo Torin enslaved by the Hsktskt Faction, succeeds almost in spite of itself.  The basic problem is that it should never have happened.  In StarDoc, Duncan Reever told Cherijo that being named designate for a Hsktskt infant \\"virtually guarantees you'll never be taken as a Hsktskt slave.\\"  Agreed, \\"virtually\\" isn't the same as \\"absolutely,\\" but it's close enough so that only a serious crime against the Faction should trigger such a fate.  All Cherijo did was negotiate a trade-the safety of Joren's inhabitants in exchange for the easy capture of an entire League military fleet.  The Hsktskt admit the undamaged fleet is a major prize.  So TssVar demotes his child's godmother to slave status for handing him this prize?  Not likely.  Viehl's disregard of her own back-story here makes it harder for readers to trust anything she writes.<br />Regular romantic fiction readers may find no complaints beyond Endurance's basic premise.  Those who prefer their protagonists smart, savvy, and quick on the uptake will find part of the plot very frustrating.  Despite all they've been through together, Cherijo has now arbitrarily pegged Duncan as a bad guy without so much as a \\"you owe me an explanation.\\"  This is a convention often used in books with torrid covers of Fabio clutching a chesty female in long skirts.  Readers know the heroine will torture herself interminably for loving a monster, disregarding mounting evidence to the contrary.  At no point will either she or said monster insist on simply talking it all out.  Cherijo supposedly has a genetically enhanced brain, but it doesn't show here.  Viehl can do better.  Her readers-and characters-deserve better.<br />Luckily for everyone involved, Viehl does do better in much of Endurance.  The star-crossed-love theme runs its full course, but isn't the whole story.  As Cherijo adjusts to slave life, first aboard ship and then at the slave depot on Catopsa, she resumes medical duties by tending to her fellow captives.  Since she got them into this mess, her life's as much at risk from them as from her captors.  The pangs of tortured love pale beside the tale's almost casual physical brutality and occasional bodily torture.  When push comes to shove, Cherijo morphs back into the protagonist of previous books-a diminutive Arnold Schwarzenegger, only with better gag writers.  The action sequences are fast-paced, creative, and leavened with humor.  Along the way, Cherijo gains new information about the mysterious Maggie and about herself.<br />Even at the darkest points, there's reason to hope.  Cherijo's old pal Alunthri is back.  She earns the grudging respect of some League captives, and makes friends among the slaves on Catopsa.  Then there's Noarr, a slave runner of unknown species who becomes more than friendly.  Other allies appear from unexpected quarters.  The cavalry appears in the nick of time.<br />Viehl's basic writing skills continue to improve, though sentence structure remains a problem for her.  Both of her extended attempts at dialect will annoy some readers.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	R73RYVYRGTO0E	0451458915	940486010	Eternity Row: A Stardoc Novel	Books	3	10	14	N	N	It Has Its Moments, But Not Many	Eternity Row is Viehl's fifth StarDoc novel, and there's no end in sight.  The series has been entertaining, and Cherijo Torin's quest to discover-and perhaps alter-her destiny has taken some creative turns.  Viehl's characters, medical scenes, and action sequences have always been strong.  Her basic writing skills have shown slow but steady improvement.  Unfortunately, her plotting remains weak in terms of both her series-long story arc and her finer touches within each book.<br />For those who by now feel a vested interest in Cherijo's fate, Eternity Row is worth reading, but it's decidedly the least inspired effort in the series to date.  There's little sense of focus throughout much of the book, as the plot takes far too long to develop.  The story's climax and wrap-up are then overly rushed, with no really satisfying pay-off at the end.  Too many plot elements are poorly rationalized, overly contrived, or simply irrelevant.  Most disappointing of all, there's no delightful, demented, Viehl-crafted villain powering this piece.<br />The bare-bones outline is simple enough.  The Sunlace will head for the planet of Oenrall so Cherijo can investigate the mysterious plague afflicting Dhreen's people.  From there, it's on to Jxinok, to finally learn why Maggie involved herself in Joe's experiments to create Cherijo.  Since Hawk's father is from a planet in the same quadrant as the other two, Sunlace will stop there along the way.<br />The story lines as they actually play out become a good deal muddier.  Cherijo's ClanBrother Xonea still seems to have designs on her; they unfold in a couple of related plot elements that splutter along through the main story lines.  The ongoing war between League and Hsktskt forces affects life aboard the Sunlace.  Cherijo's pals Squilyp and Alunthri are both having personal problems.  A belief-straining connection turns up between Hawk's people and Dhreen's, and possibly Alunthri's.  The Bartermen reappear.  In addition to high intelligence and rapid healing, daughter Marel shows signs of at least one ability not demonstrated by Cherijo.  There are unexpected side effects to Joe's experimental surgery on Duncan's kidney.  Cherijo and Duncan still haven't gotten their joint act together, for which Maggie lectures them sternly-something readers have wanted to do since Endurance.<br />Like earlier StarDoc books, Eternity Row has its better moments, mostly limited in this case to minor details.  The book probably contains information essential to the larger story arc, though it's difficult to see how most of it could possibly matter in the long run.  The back cover blurb promises that Cherijo and Duncan \\"intend to find Cherijo's foster mother-and the truth behind the subliminal messages she left in Cherijo's brain.\\"  Duncan does eventually spring a surprise about the nature of the messages; however, when Cherijo at last gets to hear their purpose, she rejects it out of hand as a pack of lies.  After waiting through most of the book for a substantial revelation like those in past stories, this feels like a pretty cheap trick.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	R2QCH719YH5NIW	0451457730	898233857	Stardoc	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Nice Debut, Needs Polish	This debut novel introduces a promising talent.  Viehl's writing is rough around the edges, but her instincts are good.  Combining no-nonsense attitude and wry sense of humor, StarDoc's protagonist is instantly likeable.  Dr. Cherijo Grey Veil grew up in privilege and semi-isolation on Terra.  Her father, a renowned physician and geneticist, raised her in his image and has dominated all facets of her life even into adulthood.  One day, she uncovers an awful secret about him.  Fearing for her safety, she accepts a job on a distant colony world and slips away with her cat, Jenner.  She has no other family or friends to leave behind.<br />Terrans are supremely xenophobic, and Dad's a leading voice for genetic purity.  Cherijo shares none of that ingrained species prejudice, perhaps due to a woman named Maggie, who provided a maternal presence for the motherless child.  Maggie's dead now, but remains a source of advice and comfort, after a fashion.<br />On colonial K-2, Terrans are a small minority.  Cherijo begins work in a FreeClinic trauma center, with badly outmoded equipment in short supply and an endless parade of mostly alien patients.  Her boss hates her on sight.  One colleague is a shiftless incompetent.  Her first day on the job is a fiasco.  Nevertheless, she not only survives but thrives away from Dad's heavy-handed influence.  Then his occasional long-distance harassment becomes a concerted effort to drag Cherijo home.  That's when StarDoc really grabs readers' attention.  Dad's methods are extreme, his reasoning diabolical.  At the same time, Cherijo confronts an unknown contagion on K-2.  New friends rally around, along with unexpected allies including her boss and the unfathomable telepathic linguist Duncan Reever.<br />Viehl's prose can be awkward.  There are well-meant but clumsy attempts to reflect future language drift; tech-based terms like \\"lascalpel\\" might pass, but clunkers like \\"sleeping platform,\\" \\"footgear,\\" and \\"cleansing unit\\" for bed, shoes, and shower are simply annoying.  It also seems at times like Viehl took a creative writing class and was advised to dress up her styling, only she's using words not really familiar to her.  Her dialects come off pretty well, as do her more straightforward narrative efforts.<br />There are some false notes in StarDoc's plotting.  Readers are forced to grope for a reason why Cherijo-or Maggie-shouldn't be more xenophobic.  The too-quickly developed passion between Cherijo and Kao Torin doesn't seem in keeping with either her upbringing or her temperament.  Her almost-inhuman prowess at treating alien trauma puts a strain on readers' belief; it eventually makes sense, but the story would have benefited from more overt foreshadowing of the key information.<br />Beginner's failings aside, StarDoc is a good read.  The characters are colorful and well-drawn.  Viehl's picture of life as a trauma center physician has a ring of authenticity.  She needs to develop more control over plotting nuances, but her basic story elements are solid.  Readers will root for Cherijo to kick some serious [booty] in the promised sequel.	2002-10-16
US	49361134	R30CTJHJZM48P8	0886778506	606237682	Ties of Power (Trade Pact Universe)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Solid Story, Somewhat Sprawling	The second book in Julie Czerneda's Trade Pact Universe trilogy has all the color and realism of the first, if rather less direct action in its intertwined story lines.  Ties of Power picks up a year after A Thousand Words for Stranger.  The bond between Sira di Sarc and Justin Morgan remains strong and warm, but they are neither mated in the Human fashion nor fully Joined in the manner of Clan.<br />Anticipating retaliation from the Clan Council, Sira and Morgan have been keeping a low profile on a backwater planet.  When the attack finally comes, however, it takes them both by surprise.  Sira is left injured as the Council seizes the only thing it now wants from her.  In a fury, she sends Morgan off to retrieve what was stolen.<br />Sira, who again narrates her story line in first person, spends over half of Ties sidelined with the alien Drapsk, on either their ship or their homeworld.  Czerneda does an excellent job of bringing the Drapsk and their planet to life, and sets an absorbing puzzle for Sira as she tries to get a handle on the incomprehensible Drapsk culture and on the purpose of a mysterious competition they're determined to have her enter, but some readers may become impatient with the slow pace of this story line and its relative lack of plot development.<br />Some of Sira's rage has implanted itself in Morgan, leaving him hair-trigger-tempered and aggressive as he hunts the Clan who violated Sira.  Having few leads to go on, he doesn't get anywhere very fast, but he does get to spend time with some interesting characters.  As in Stranger, there are a number of different parties on either his or Sira's trail, for widely varied purposes, most of which have little or nothing to do with the pair's best interests; these story lines are interspersed with Morgan's search in brief, third-person \\"interludes,\\" again as in Stranger.<br />Free at last, Sira goes after Morgan.  Good guys and bad guys alike converge on a dismal little ball of swamp called Ret 7.Several ongoing or new plots are laid bare, including one that makes the Clan itself more pawn than player.  In view of other events occurring as the tide finally turns in favor of the good guys, the long-deferred Joining between Sira and Morgan is disappointingly anticlimactic.<br />Sequels are always harder to pull off than originals, and newer authors often find it hard to match the impact of a successful debut novel.  That said, Czerneda's turned in a solid performance with Ties of Power.  Compared to Stranger, this book is more sprawling in its story lines and not quite as free of basic writing errors, but its aliens and worlds are fun and fully realized, the writing in general is leavened by an undercurrent of humor, and Czerneda shows a flair for taking her plots off in unexpected directions.  It will be fun to see how she chooses to wrap up this trilogy.	2002-09-30
US	49361134	R4BTLANN3Y9A6	0425185176	738776514	Unidentified	Books	2	6	8	N	N	...Yawn	Matthew Costello is credited with seventeen novels.  Some may even live up to their glowing press.  Unidentified does not.  Back cover reviewers promise \\"truly twisted,\\" \\"gripping, compelling,\\" \\"deep-down terror,\\" but this purported horror story is mostly just boring.<br />The back cover plot blurb promises a \\"peculiar house in the hills,\\" shrouded in legends \\"nowhere near as terrifying as the truth.\\"  \\"[A]n imprisoned force...now...unleashed.\\"  A desperate foray into \\"the very heart of the house to uncover its secrets,\\" all in the face of global terror.<br />The first part of Unidentified is a pastiche of assorted characters and their activities over the course of a few days.  The focus never stays on anyone very long, so it's difficult to establish any bond between reader and character or to feel particularly vested in anyone's fate.  There are some bloody but underplayed deaths, an anticlimactic car wreck, and a few possibly supernatural but downplayed experiences.  Linkages between events are poor to nonexistent, providing little sense of growing menace, let alone impending doom.  The \\"global terror\\" aspect never really materializes.<br />The \\"peculiar house\\" of the plot blurb isn't even mentioned in passing until page 121.  The book is more than half-over before any substantial attention is paid to the house.  Individual character stories finally start to coalesce, though not well.  A bit of ongoing tension at last begins to build, too late for some readers to care any more.<br />Two-thirds of the way through, the book finally ratchets into a higher gear.  If this were the first third, it would be a promising beginning.  Then it's over, and several plot threads were never even adequately explored, much less resolved.  Oh, horrors; a sequel?<br />Any competent high school English teacher will explain that, except to indicate omission of material from a direct quote, writers should use the ellipsis very sparingly or it loses its intended impact.  A handful of occurrences in a book like this would be ample.  Anything more would be...decidedly annoying and...strictly...amateur hour.  With Costello, the ellipsis is ubiquitous.  There are enough pregnant pauses in Unidentified to signal a major population explosion.  Now there's a horror story: overrun by...rampant ellipses.  Instead of increasing the sense of menace, this device becomes almost a joke.  While more acceptable, the em-dash is also vastly overused here.  What was Costello's editor thinking?<br />Costello shows a firm grasp of most basic writing skills.  His house and his unidentified creatures are excellent concepts; too bad he gives them such short shrift.  There's a great story somewhere in Unidentified, but bringing it out would require tighter plotting, with a tighter focus on key concepts and characters, and a much tighter rein on all those...tiresome...ellipses.	2002-09-30
US	49361134	R183F1JQ2INJTM	0886777690	613842763	A Thousand Words for Stranger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A New Talent, Reminiscent of Norton	Julie Czerneda's great first novel is strongly reminiscent of Andre Norton, a Grand Master at producing science fiction that blends harrowing plots, colorful evocations of complex societies, deftly sketched aliens, strong heroines, and overtones of things mysterious and magical.  All of those elements are present in A Thousand Words for Stranger.  There's also an intermittent shading of Harlequin Romance, another road Norton's been known to travel.  In fact, some of the smallest narrative touches in Stranger seem like an intentional salute to Norton's influence.  The story, however, is all Czerneda.<br />After a scene-setting, if somewhat foot-dragging, prologue, Stranger's protagonist hits the ground running.  Literally.  No past, no identity, no friends or kin, all she has to guide her are a series of inner compulsions: stay hidden, find the right ship, get off-planet.  She knows she's in trouble even before the first bad guys put the snatch on her, but not how or why.  Only her non-personal knowledge remains intact.<br />Driven by her compulsions, she hooks up with Jason Morgan, independent trader and captain of the Silver Fox.  He's been paid by the Clan, her people, to keep her safe until a rendezvous can be arranged.  Morgan knows her name, Sira, and that some kind of protective mental shield has blocked off her recollection of self.<br />Inner compulsions give way to interplanetary hounding by various known and unknown parties.  No longer sure where safety lies, it's all Morgan and Sira can do to stay ahead of the pack.  To complicate matters further, new and different compulsions regarding Morgan become increasingly personal and intense for Sira.  A bond forms between the pair that has nothing to do with mere physical attraction.<br />What's really going on?  Is there any way out that won't get either of them killed?  Who's responsible for sending Sira into danger at all?  And why to Morgan in particular?  As the answers finally fall into place, there are surprises all around.<br />Stranger alternates Sira's first-person narration with third-person accounts of key characters on her trail.  Czerneda's writing is creatively gifted and technically proficient.  Someone's done a good job of purging most grammar, spelling, and similar errors.  There are some very minor storyline flaws, easily overlooked in the general richness of detail.  In fact, if there's a complaint to be made here at all, it's about information overload.  The Trade Pact Universe is vivid and realistic.  The Clan has its own complex and ritualistic culture separate from the mainstream.  The story is full of shadowy political maneuvering and plots within plots.  Without careful attention, it's easy to lose track of the finer points.  That's a complaint most readers will be more than willing to live with.<br />Stranger is the first of a trilogy.  Czerneda's set herself a very high bar to clear with the remaining two books.	2002-09-30
US	49361134	R2AT1XTQO8X2VR	0756400759	636755655	To Trade the Stars (Trade Pact Universe)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	But Why Did She End It THAT Way?	This final book in the Trade Pact Universe trilogy picks up three months after Ties of Power.  The Clan have signed on to the Trade Pact, but their assimilation is not without its rough spots, and the break-away Clan colony seems to be up to mischief again.  The Human telepath, Symon, may also be building up to some sort of power play.  On top of all that, a contingent of Drapsk shows up with warnings of a new alien menace.  Each of these story lines involves a number of peripheral stories.<br />Events conspire once again to separate the Morgans for most of the book.  Sira spends several chapters locked inside her own head, suddenly reliving memories that had remained suppressed even after her previous mind block was removed.  Though well written as usual, these passages do little to move the story along.<br />As before, Sira's first-person story alternates with third-person accounts of Morgan and several other key characters.  Also as before, all of the characters and locales are well-drawn, the plots creative.  There are murders, disappearances, chases, and assorted surprises.  Maybe just a little too assorted.  It isn't until the final third of To Trade the Stars that the narratives at last organize themselves around a \\"main\\" plot that gives some focus to the rest of the book.<br />If anything, the many story lines in Stars are even more sprawling than in Ties, which in turn was more disjointed than Strangers.  Variety is the spice of life, but too much spice can overwhelm an otherwise fine dish.  This trilogy has all the high-quality ingredients that make up a fine dish, but a little less variety in its story lines would have made it easier to savor their individual flavors and enjoy the blended whole.  In the first two books, Czerneda set up several excellent story lines relating to Clan, Human telepaths, or both, all of which deserved better treatment in Stars.  Instead, many story lines have been given pat wrap-ups-or have simply been dropped-without ever being fully developed.  Czerneda's eventual choice of direction for the last part of the book is inexplicable in view of everything else she had to work with, and ultimately disappointing.<br />Czerneda's ability to create vivid and diverse characters, cultures, and places is by now well-established, as is her skill at braiding together a number of small but intriguing story lines within a single book.  There are times, however, when the reader misses a strong, centralized plot to unify the wealth of information and viewpoints she provides so well.  The Trade Pact Universe is a fascinating construct, well worth revisiting again and again, as Andre Norton has done in any number of otherwise-unrelated tales set within a common universe.  Perhaps in future efforts, Czerneda will take her readers back to fill out those abandoned story lines, preferably with more depth and just a little less scope.	2002-09-30
US	49361134	RY1Y2Y84EG0MZ	0451458877	259511144	Tainted Trail (Ukiah Oregon, Book 2)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	A Solid Follow-up Effort	Ukiah Oregon's prospective mother-in-law recently described him as a \\"long-haired, teenage, Native American, Unitarian, Wolf Boy raised by lesbians, with an infant son obviously from a previously failed relationship.\\"  If she only knew.  Tainted Trail, set in a near-present-day United States, is Wen Spencer's second novel.  Like her first, Alien Taste, it features Ukiah, a young man who was indeed raised by a lesbian couple near Pittsburgh, after being found as a feral child in the Oregon wilderness.  Back in Alien Taste, however, Ukiah learned enough about his true origins to make the \\"wolf boy\\" business look downright tame.<br />Tainted Trail includes enough back story to let it stand alone.  The first two chapters are particularly background-heavy, which makes the current plot a bit slow on the start-up.  It would be a mistake, though, to skip Alien Taste if it's available.  While Spencer has managed to avoid the second-book-itis that often plagues new writers, the current story is more mundane than her first outing.  Tainted Trail is a solid effort, and raises several plot points for future books, but Alien Taste is a better indication of why both books are marketed as science fiction.<br />In Tainted Trail, Ukiah is off to Oregon with friend, mentor, and fellow private investigator Max Bennett; plus another friend, homicide detective Raymond Kraynak.  Kraynak's niece, Alicia, has disappeared while hiking in Umatillo National Forest.  That's the same area where Ukiah spent his feral childhood, so he hopes to pick up on a previous-fruitless-search for more of his personal history.  The trio also hook up with Sam Killington, an Oregon PI working a set of insurance cases, part of a localized spike in accidental deaths and disappearances involving 35 people, including Alicia.  These three plot threads intertwine to form the overall story.  At first there's nothing tying them together except vague coincidences, but a good PI never puts much trust in coincidence.<br />Spencer has chosen to make her protagonist-and virtually every other key character in the book-a man.  Far fewer writers are successful at opposite sex point-of-view than the number who attempt it.  Luckily, science fiction is more flexible than other writing genres.  If Ukiah doesn't always ring entirely authentic as a young, contemporary American male, well, there are obvious reasons on which to pin any false notes.  Still, it would be interesting to see Spencer focus on more characters she could fully inhabit from the inside out.<br />She seems to have done her homework on the new locale and other story aspects.  Her writing is lean and generally well-constructed.  The grammar police note that it should be \\"someone who,\\" never \\"someone that,\\" does or says something.  There are also occasional missing or incorrect parts of speech that cause momentary stumbles in the smooth flow of sentences.  Finally, cells would propagate through a body, not \\"profligate.\\"  Never mind; the story is worth reading and Spencer is worth another look whenever her next Ukiah Oregon book comes out.	2002-09-30
US	49361134	R14SM1MPYE0UL	0451458125	54721316	Fool Moon (Dresden Files)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Harry Takes on the Hairies	Book Two of the Dresden Files picks up six months after Storm Front.  Police Lieutenant Murphy of Special Investigations calls consultant Harry in on yet another grisly murder.  Their friendship has been decidedly strained since he withheld information from her in Storm Front-with the best of intentions but lamentable results.  Now she's under investigation by Internal Affairs because of Mob involvement in the earlier matter.  The current decedent, torn to shreds one night before the full moon, follows nine similar killings a month earlier.  Paw prints, tooth and claw marks, plenty of blood.  Murphy doesn't really need Harry to cry werewolf, and she's reluctant to trust him again, but she hopes he can help nab the perps and maybe save her job.<br />Lupine shape-shifters come in assorted flavors.  All have established a presence in the Windy City.  In fact, readers will be forgiven for thinking that half of Chicago has gone to the wolves in one way or another.  As Fool Moon unfolds, Harry tallies up a pack apiece of werewolves, Hexenwulfen, and lycanthropes, plus a lone loup-garou and a sort of reverse werewolf.  Not all of the hairies are bad guys, and not all of the bad guys are as guilty as they could be.<br />The carnage in Fool Moon is more graphic and widespread than in Storm Front.  In addition to the high body count, Harry himself is shot, mauled, chewed, pounded on, and bodily hurled against unforgiving surfaces-in most cases several times-so he's understandably a bit less inclined toward cracking wise than in Book One.  The mayhem seems to be part of a larger, long-range plot about which Butcher drops several hints; it could also be a harbinger of an emotional train wreck looming in Harry's future.<br />There are intimations of a dark legacy from the mother Harry never knew.  There's a glimpse of the youthful crime that clearly still haunts him.  There was a girl in that part of his past, and she may not be as far past as he chooses to believe.  There are even questions about the two most prominent women in his present: Murphy and girlfriend Susan Rodriguez, a tabloid reporter.<br />Butcher still has moments where his plot strains against the willing suspension of disbelief, mostly in timing: conversations, travel, and other activities ought to be taking longer than his narrative clock reflects.  There are a couple of minor plot issues at tale's end.  Harry never quite comes off as one of the two dozen most powerful wizards in the USA, either.  As in Storm Front, however, the plotting is well-paced and the story is absorbing enough to divert attention away from the minor sticking points.  While it lacks some of the zest of Storm Front, readers with a taste for Sam-Spade-plus-sorcery stories will find Fool Moon an entertaining read on its own merits, and it raises several interesting possibilities for the direction of future Dresden Files.	2002-09-19
US	49361134	R1BFAOO35EBRBM	0451458095	424866307	Murphy's Gambit	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Fine First Outing	Floaters are the second-class citizens of the future in Syne Mitchell's debut novel, Murphy's Gambit.  Humans who spend most or all their lives off-planet, their bodies have little tolerance for gravity.  Some floaters carve out independent lives, but most are at the mercy of the Collective for employment, food, shelter, and air.<br />The Collective comprises twelve corporations controlling key space industries.  It also serves as the interstellar government.  The Collective is run almost entirely by grounders-humans with a planetary orientation and little tolerance for floaters except as cheap labor.<br />The Gambit is a strange ship found derelict in space by a Collective member.  As scientists try to unravel its secrets, word leaks out to a rival member.  A battle of stealth is waged for possession of the ship.<br />Thiadora Murphy is a floater with an unusual background.  She has also chosen an unusual lifestyle, undergoing extensive gravity conditioning to become the first floater accepted for Collective military training.  Already caught in a conflict between upbringing and career, Murphy is tapped to test-pilot the Gambit and thus becomes a pawn in the corporate machinations as well.  Struggling to regain control over her life, Murphy sees the Gambit as a solution to her problems and those of her people.<br />Mitchell's writing skills are sound and her plotting is good, though there's ample room for improvement.  Some situations are overly contrived (e.g. the book's beginning and end), inadequately thought out (like the purportedly alien yet instantly readable spatial coordinate system), or otherwise lacking a ring of authenticity (the journal entries).  Luckily, with so much going on throughout the story, it's easy to skip past the occasional false notes.<br />There's also a proliferation of basic writing errors (spelling, word use, continuity, et cetera).  Again, the rapid pace of events helps minimize the annoyance, but two bloopers are particularly overt:the name \\"Fomalhaut\\" is misspelled each of the sixteen times it appears, and the same set of dinner dishes is cleared from the table no less than three times.  Who proofreads this stuff?<br />Overall, Murphy's Gambit is a fine first effort, full of action from beginning to end.  The reader is carried right along as Murphy careens from frying pan to fire and back again, scrambling to salvage something from the wreckage her life has suddenly become.  There's enough science to keep the story believable, but not so much that it reads more like a textbook than fiction.  Characters and places are well-drawn and interesting.  Still, promoting the book in a glowing cover quote by husband Eric Nylund without at the same time fully disclosing the personal relationship is at best unprofessional; it should not be allowed to happen again.	2002-09-19
US	49361134	RAHN32KCGKAY4	0451458923	511698178	Summer Knight (Dresden Files)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Harry Saves the Day, Again	Politics rears its ugly head in Book Four of the Dresden Files, particularly early on.  There's a great deal of detail on the make-up and functioning of the White Council and the two faerie Courts.  The information is important for understanding character actions and motivations; in the White Council's case, it's overdue.  It's all carefully reasoned and well-written, but hardly pulse-pounding stuff.  The actual story is slow to shift into gear, especially after the action-packed Grave Peril.<br />Harry Dresden's spent the past 8-9 months obsessively seeking a wizardly cure for girlfriend Susan's incipient vampirism.  He's a mess inside and out, nearly broke, about to be evicted from both home and office.  The vampires' Red Court wants him dead.  Some on the White Council blame him for the current wizard/vampire war.  Then the Red Court offers peace if Harry is delivered up to vampire justice.  His only hope of averting that fate is to take a case from Mab, queen of Faerie's Winter Court.  His task is to figure out who murdered Ronald Reuel (with a nod to Tolkien), designated Knight of Faerie's Summer Court, and to retrieve what the killer stole.<br />Relations between the faerie Courts are always strained; it's their nature.  Reuel's death has drastically weakened Summer and is being blamed on Winter.  The resulting escalation of hostilities is noticeable even in the mortal world.  If Harry can't solve the murder and theft within a couple of days, the two Courts will wage a war that'll make the wizard/vampire flap look like a schoolyard scuffle.  Harry doesn't trust Mab.  The rest of her Court is less than cooperative.  Summer Court thinks he's dangerously psycho.  There's at least one professional assassin on his tail, equally likely to be working for the vampires or one of the faerie factions.  He's perpetually hungry, sleep-deprived, injured, confused, and, well, harried.<br />The emotional pounding isn't much fun, either.  Harry's stunned when someone he believed long dead turns up working for the faeries.  Summer Court's Lady Aurora says he desperately needs to take a healing time-out, immediately.  Echoing his own past concerns about his darker side, she tells him \\"[m]onsters are born of pain and grief and loss and anger.  Your heart is full of them.\\"  Godmother Lea delivers up a jolt or three to his world view as well.<br />Luckily, he has allies.  Some are old friends.  Others turn up in unexpected quarters.  Somehow, with their help, he manages to save the day and the world.  And his own skin.  At least for the moment.<br />For all its slow beginning, Summer Knight eventually serves up a story every bit as engrossing as earlier books in the series.  Harry musters enough grit to offer his usual wise-cracking façade to the world, though the façade itself is showing a few cracks.  Harry's becoming more introspective, whether he likes it or not.	2002-09-19
US	49361134	R2AN2YKHWAZBMS	0451458443	922158521	Grave Peril (The Dresden Files, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Most Entertaining Dresden File to Date	Book Three of the Dresden Files begins a year after Fool Moon.  Where Book Two was all in shades of wolf, the palette here is considerably more varied.  Harry himself is back in full-color, wise-cracking form.  The central themes are ghosts and vampires, but Butcher throws in a sprinkling of other paranormal phenomena as well, just to keep everybody on their toes.<br />An unknown agent has been raising ghosts all over Chicago, torturing them into murderous rampages.  Tired of vanquishing a different ghost every night, Harry's determined to attack the problem at its source, especially after the same torture spell is used on a living victim.<br />An unidentified beastie, too powerful to be just another ghost, tries to tear apart a church where Harry stashed a young woman who came to him for protection.  The attack fails, the woman disappears into the night, and the beastie is still around.<br />Vampire madam Bianca, celebrating a promotion within the vampires' Red Court, invites Harry to the bash.  Diplomatic protocols between Court and White Council virtually require attendance, and girlfriend Susan is eagerly contemplating interview prospects, but Harry's sure that Bianca is looking to settle an old score with him.<br />Speaking of which, Harry's real-life faerie godmother is determined to collect on a deal he made with her as a teenager.  Problem is, it's Harry she expects to collect.<br />These plot lines are all set up in the first hundred pages of Grave Peril.  It takes the other three-quarters of the book for Harry to work out who's really doing what, and why.  Along the way, he and several of his nearest and dearest fall prey to various bad guys; nobody gets away without some physical and psychological scarring.<br />Butcher writes like a master gamesman here.  Things start happening with no apparent purpose or connection, and only gradually does an overall game plan begin to emerge.  This being his third book, readers by now can guess that everything is goingto come together eventually-short term events before the book's end and long term plots in future books-but that takes nothing away from the enjoyment of seeing how Butcher actually manages to make the pieces fit.<br />There are more minor plotting issues in Grave Peril than in the first two books, and it seems like a bit of a cheat to have two personal, apparently long-standing relationships suddenly pop up with no previous mention.  Technical writing errors, fairly unobtrusive before, are more overt here as well (note: never flaunt tony words like \\"dais\\"-especially not 21 times-without confirming their proper spelling).  Picky, picky; this is the most entertaining of the Dresden Files to date.  All of the \\"things are not what they seem\\" plot twists once again call to mind Steven Brust's Vlad Taltos, as does the personal and political mess Harry creates over Susan; a habit of pensive lip-chewing would not seem at all out of place for Harry.	2002-09-19
US	49361134	RGUY9MTDNX9PI	0451457811	823834280	Storm Front (Dresden Files)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Sam Spade, Plus Sorcery	Harry Dresden figures he's \\"the only openly practicing professional wizard\\" in the USA.  Home is present-day Chicago, where he lives in a basement apartment with an enormous cat named Mister and an air spirit named Bob.  The latter spends most of its time bound into an otherwise untenanted human skull in Harry's lab, serving as sidekick and wizardly alternative to a computer, what with magic and electronics being pretty much mutually exclusive concepts.<br />His caseload isn't exactly overwhelming, but Harry ekes out a living in paranormal investigations, finding lost things, and occasional police consulting jobs.  As Storm Front opens, he actually gets two cases at once: tracing a misplaced husband, and checking out a pair of grisly homicides.  As the plot unfolds to a fiery climax, it encompasses a third murder, a new designer drug, a vampire madam, a mob boss and henchmen, a toad-demon, several golem scorpions, and a renegade wizard.  Not necessarily in that order.  Then there's the whole business about the White Council-sort of a wizardly regulatory board-coming after Harry for violating his probation from a prior offense.  And this is only the first book of a proposed series.<br />Harry has been compared to Laurell Hamilton's Anita Blake.  Both operate in a contemporary Midwestern setting that would be completely unremarkable except for magic and paranormal beings coexisting with the rest of society.  Both use magic professionally.  Both are police consultants.  In Harry's universe, though, the paranormal stuff is much more closeted; few folks are even aware of wizards and such.  Fewer still are willing to openly acknowledge their legitimacy, which puts quite a crimp in Harry's career ambitions.  Butcher's writing is also less dark and gruesome than Hamilton's, and-so far at least-Harry has managed to avoid any sexual entanglement with dead things or animals.<br />Harry could equally well be compared with Glen Cook's Garrett or Steven Brust's Vlad Taltos, though both operate in a decidedly non-earth universe, and Garrett's no wizard while Vlad's no detective.  All live as much by their wits as their training.  All exhibit a world-weary, wise-cracking style.  All are singularly unimpressed by bullies and other abusers of power, on either side of the law.  And all have sidekicks who sometimes seem like more trouble than they're worth.<br />Butcher's prose is clean and direct, his plotting tight, his characters believable, and his magic well-thought-out.  Storm Front is equal parts gumshoe and fantasy: Sam Spade, plus sorcery.  On occasion, the situations are just a bit too pat, too contrived to sustain the willing suspension of disbelief, but those are easily forgiven as events move along.  Some readers may be put off by a sense that, with all his purported wizardly power and skill, Harry really ought to be in better control of his day-to-day life.  Still, Butcher gives plenty of hints that there's more to discover about Harry and his universe, and the quality of storytelling in this debut novel should leave most readers looking forward to the next installment.	2002-09-19
US	49361134	R95PDOLS91C3S	0451458648	343026014	Technogenesis	Books	2	9	15	N	N	Syne Suffers Sophomore Slump	Writers of great debut novels often fall short on their sophomore outings, ensnared by high expectations and pressure to crank out another winner before the buzz fades.  It might even be said that surviving a sophomore slump is a rite of passage for any novelist worth the title.  If so, Syne Mitchell is right on track.  Her second novel, Technogenesis, again demonstrates the solid writing skills necessary for long-term success.  Some readers may enjoy identifying other science fiction works evoked consciously or unconsciously in various scenes.  Unfortunately, this book lacks the creative spark and workmanlike effort of Murphy's Gambit.<br />Technogenesis is set in the early 22nd century.  Nearly everyone filters life through an Internet connection.  Temporarily unconnected due to a hardware glitch, Jasmine (Jaz) Reese suspects that the Net is being used to control society.  The first hundred pages of Technogenesis is a not-very-innovative \\"Big Brother is watching you\\" riff.  Jaz tries to investigate.  She tries to enlist help.  She tries to be careful.  She's foiled at every turn and eventually nabbed by security agents.<br />The second hundred pages reflect a \\"civvies in spyland\\" theme.  Jaz is coerced into working for the agency that nabbed her.  After a one-day crash course in spy tactics, she's supposed to infiltrate a dissident group with another unwilling recruit.  Turning a reluctant Jaz loose as a spy makes no sense.  The agency admits that the dissidents will mind-probe her to check her loyalty, so her training includes beating a probe; well, if she can fool the dissidents, then why not the agency?  And one day of training?  Get real.  Finally, throwing Jaz into danger with a strange man might be cute in a romantic comedy, but doesn't play well here.<br />In the final hundred-plus pages, after a successful infiltration, most plot advances occur in virtual reality.  There are also the semi-obligatory sex scenes, one in VR.  Past acquaintance with written descriptions of VR experiences has left a distinct impression that any virtual activity, like real-world sex, would have to be far more interesting to live than to read about.  Technogenesis does nothing to alter this impression.<br />Events and motivations throughout Technogenesis fail the \\"willing suspension of disbelief\\" test that is the hallmark of good writing.  Decisions and actions are inconsistent with or inadequately supported by previously laid groundwork.  The more credible passages are often simply bland.  Mitchell still needs competent proofreaders, and someone again deserves a slap on the wrist for re-using husband Eric Nylund's promotional quote without clearly disclosing the personal relationship.<br />After finishing Murphy's Gambit, this reader was left eagerly hoping for a sequel.  On reading the final sentence of Technogenesis, there was a sinking feeling that a sequel is inevitable.	2002-09-19
