US	49362149	R3UAR9G8FXE09Z	0425181111	742127435	Strangers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	As good as Koontz gets...	Like constantly revisiting a sore tooth with your tongue, I continue to read Dean Koontz novels in spite of the unintentional hilarity many of them embody.  To be fair, Koontz has a knack for description, but it's his stilted and contrived dialogue and characters that usually derail things. <br /> <br />Strangers is the best Koontz I've read yet.  The plot, concerning a group of apparant strangers who must work backwards through their lost memories to unravel a government conspiracy that they have become involved in, is tricky and full of surprises.  While Koontz usually places his novels in the same ho-hum oceanside California communities, Strangers uses many cities as its settings, including the Nevada landscape that serves as a setting for a blizzard at a crucial plot crossroads. <br /> <br />And, OK, the characters are still rife with stereotype and idealism.  The spunky young female doctor, the wacky artist with the heart of gold, the priest with doubts about his religion, the trailer-dwelling waitress with an abuse-filled childhood trying to regain her sexuality.  Koontz has the knack to make these walking sit-com characters likable, even if the dialogue often veers into wordy speeches.   <br /> <br />The novel is slightly long, but it builds its suspense effectively.  Assuming that the plot would eventually yield a supernatural being trying to destroy the Earth, I was surprised to see Koontz unfolding a more complex and entertaining plot than his usual devices.	2005-02-01
US	49362149	R3JI53IJH10COP	0553582895	855932928	Dark Rivers of the Heart	Books	2	4	5	N	N	Departure for Koontz (sort of)...	Koontz starts out pretty good in Dark Rivers Of The Heart, spinning the tale of a man with a childhood secret who, with the help of his trusty dog (of course) and computer hacker girlfriend must return to his birthplace and solve the mystery of his missing memories. <br /> <br />Even better, Koontz weaves in a refreshing political slant that sees our heroes running from a mysterious government agency with incredible powers.  This is the first Koontz book that I've read in recent memory that is not based in the supernatural world at all, although there is still much that is far-fetched.  I even enjoyed the lengthy and pointed jabs against big government, although they aren't hidden too well and don't mean much to character development. <br /> <br />The big downside in this novel is the dreary pace that it takes.  It is a shame that a Koontz novel that strays so far from his usual patterns has to be so mired in description and endless \\"chase\\" scenes.  Suspenseful scenes don't stay that way after dozens of pages have gone by without action. <br /> <br />As we follow our hero's quest to find the woman of his dreams and clear up his childhood regressions, Koontz lets the story get dragged down again and again with idealistic chatter and meaningless explanation.  Even interesting turns in the plot involving government satellites and space lasers can't stay that way for long when the main character stays unconscious for a huge chunk of the middle of the book. <br /> <br />Koontz has always been a guilty pleasure of mine, and I can put up with the latest retread of his handful of plotlines.  What I can't put up with is a novel this long in which so little happens.  Start with another of the author's novels, end with this one.	2004-12-24
US	49362149	R2EO39BU9W99OJ	0306813386	29276858	Johnny Cash At Folsom Prison: The Making Of A Masterpiece	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fantastic slice of Cash's life...	I'm disappointed more often than not at the rock bios that flood the market when a performer dies.  Not only are they inaccurate and full of rumor, but they often spend too much time dwelling on mundane childhood details (\\"...then, at age 6, he moved to grandma's house...\\").  <br /> <br />This book rises to the occasion and gives us an in-depth look at the events leading up to and including the day that Johnny Cash took his band of musicians (including Carl Perkins and the Statler Brothers) to Folsom Prison for a morning concert to be recorded for an LP.  The author successfully traces the seeds of Cash's care for the prisoners, not sidestepping the obvious marketing advantages to his outlaw status. <br /> <br />At Folsom Prison is extremely well-researched and Streissguth obviously has a background in country music.  For casual fans of the music of the 60's this is a great primer, but for those of us who've listened to the album again and again this is the definitive companion to the recordings.  [Note: If there's anything disappointing about the book it's that there isn't more of it.  Since it's heavy with admittedly amazing photographs from that day it's pretty short.  You'll read it in one sitting.]	2004-12-11
US	49362149	R1SF8BRDTQR2NL	0425181103	21671792	Phantoms	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Average Koontz thriller	The popularity of Phantoms compared to more deserving Koontz novels isn't something I can explain, but it does have the same ingrediants as a number of other Koontz novels.  It's really pretty standard \\"save the world from the supernatural being\\" fare, done with the standard cast of characters. <br /> <br />The town of Snowfield, California, has all of its residents disappear overnight.  The kindly sheriff, a handful of doubtful deputies, the pretty lady doctor, her wise-beyond-her-years 14-year old sister, a mad professor type, and the brave cop who is the personification of heroism must bring an ancient monster to its death.  It, naturally, can take pretty much whatever form that it wants to, making the job somewhat more difficult. <br /> <br />Once our gang gets suitably barricaded in a local inn and reinforcements are called, there's little to do but wander around town presenting unlikely theories about the monster and watching the occasional member of the group die.   <br /> <br />I can't say that I disliked Phantoms...I keep on reading Koontz's books, and this is pretty much the template for so many that would follow.  The characters are stereotypes and we've seen both the setting and the evil force before, but it's still a good late night read that you don't have to think too hard about.	2004-12-02
US	49362149	R2GE9B2DZVWHQ5	0380813815	737838666	Lamb: The Gospel According to Biff, Christ's Childhood Pal	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Not as outrageous as you'd think (maybe)	What would Jesus do?  In Lamb, Christopher Moore gets to fill in the blanks left in the Bible by putting the young Jesus into adventures that take him and his childhood pals to exotic settings, fighting demons, fending off temptation, and preparing to return home and begin his ministry.    Christopher Moore has always had a keen sense of dialogue.  Characters are able to effortlessly converse with little description, animated only by their words.  Lamb is no exception, and the characters come with a little more baggage...like being Jesus Christ or a disciple, for instance.  Moore casts the son of God and biff as a Laurel and Hardy or Abbott and Costello-style comedy team, to hilarious effect.    Moore's likable take on what Biff, Jesus' childhood pal, could have written if given a stab at a 5th gospel doesn't go out of its way to blapheme.  Sure, you get to hear some crude humor thrown around, but this is really an upbeat adventure that just happens to feature some famous Biblical faces.  Any pokes at religion are aimed squarely at the elite and powerful.  In fact, I was somewhat disappointed that Moore let some of the religious targets go in favor of staying with the characters and their escapades.    Lamb is fun and I laughed out loud more than a couple of times at some of the slapstick that plays out between Biff and the young Jesus (called Joshua here), but I would still recommend newcomers to Moore's novels start with Coyote Blue or (my favorite) Fluke.  It's more fun to unleash his irreverance on more modern subjects.	2004-11-26
US	49362149	R154JV2SJ9XAT5	0743230043	597848159	Wake Up, Sir!: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant whimsy from Jonathan Ames	Critics love to compare novels to Catcher In The Rye, but this one may actually live up to the billing.  Jonathan Ames unwinds the first person account of our Holden Caulfield, the 30-year old Alan Blair.  Blair is a troubled 30-year old writer with only one book under his belt and a problem with alcohol and responsibility.  To keep himself company and organize his daily activities (such as choice of wardrobe), Blair hires a butler named Jeeves with part of his settlement from a frivolous lawsuit. <br /> <br />We get to ride shotgun in Blair's thoughts as he unsuccessfully battles the lure of the bottle and turns every situation sour.  Even with the help of the unflappable Jeeves his trip to an elite artists' colony for residency is doomed from the outset. <br /> <br />Because Blair is so likeable and the plot so hilarious, Wake Up Sir is the most enjoyable novels that I've read since Tom Robbins' latest.  Blair is the sarcastic underdog that we don't really want to see succeed because it's so much fun to watch him fail as he staggers through an absurb group of fellow artists, each more entertaining and more dysfunctional than the last.	2004-11-17
US	49362149	R2PNECE5Y902WE	055380250X	303170656	The Taking	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Standard, if somewhat spiritual, Koontz	As anyone who's read a handful of Koontz's supernatural thrillers can tell you, many of them are very similar, sometimes amazingly so.  While it's not true of every last novel, especially earlier efforts, it's just not a surprise anymore to discover the same impossibly moral couple fighting the takeover of their community by some horrific apocolypse...with a dog. <br /> <br />The Taking is more of the same, as Southern California provides the setting for invasion by evil aliens who arrive in almost every horror cliche ever used.  They snatch up the bodies of humans, some are gross fungal sacs swarming with life, and most are just shadowy monkey-like figures scurrying around at the edge of the fog that falls upon the earth.   <br /> <br />Neil and Molly set out in their SUV to save the children of their community from the aliens.  The dogs (who've grown intelligent during the attacks, naturally) help them out, but it's still one close call after another with the alien body-snatchers.  After enough close calls, Molly starts to figure out that they are being spared.  But for what purpose? <br /> <br />With Koontz it's almost always a retread of the same themes that he revisits over and over again.  There's a spiritual tone to The Taking that I haven't seen before, but the storyline is a pure rerun.  Thankfully, Koontz knows it's not a bad rerun.  Just like the other times I've read this plot in a Koontz novel, it was a quick and fun bit of escapism.  Good, rainy afternoon fun.	2004-11-10
US	49362149	R3HRMJ0D5G5IN2	0843942657	407307585	Black River Falls	Books	3	3	3	N	N	More of Gorman's Midwestern mysteries...	While it may not quite be up to snuff with some of Gorman's other offerings, Black River Falls is a friendly enough book, with plenty of rich characters walking around.  Ben, the unlikely hero of the tale, is an innocent underdog with a heart of gold.  The veterinarian mother, Lynn, is the widowed caregiver with the heart of gold.  Well, you get the idea.<br />Gorman tapdances dangerously close to the territory of his buddy, Dean Koontz.  There aren't any elements of the supernatural here, but the good natured intelligence of the Good Guys comes close to being a notch too sweet and tender for my tastes (yes, including the weepy 'putting the kitten to sleep' scene).<br />It's another pretty-good rural mystery from a guy who can write it better than this.  The Midwest gets painted pretty well, actually, but it's the formulaic tale of a psycho brother versus the good brother that wears thin towards the back pages.	2004-04-18
US	49362149	RTIJ0QQKDBT3	0553568914	21621423	Elvis, Jesus and Coca-Cola (Kinky Friedman Novels (Paperback))	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Fine entry in the Kinster's mystery files...	Elvis, Jesus and Coca-Cola might possibly be the least imaginative of the plot lines in the Kinky mysteries (at least up to that point).  It involves two of Kinky's lady friends, cleverly dubbed Uptown Judy and Downtown Judy, who are unaware of the other's existence until one of them is killed and the Village Irregulars pounce on the case.<br />For fans of the series, however, the plot lines are secondary to the humorous anectodes of our hero and the everyday situations that he finds himself.  Kinky's friends are all featured extensively throughout the novel, which results in a number of hilarious boozy gatherings in various bars, restaurants and a gay burlesque theatre.  The infighting between Ratso, Rambam, McGovern, Brennan and Kinky's new neighbor and her two yapping dogs make up for any shortcomings in the detective yarn.<br />I always seem to read these out of sequence, but I remember this as one of the last great entries in the series.  Soon, Friedman would start resorting to new twists (including a trip to Hawaii that would make the Brady Bunch writers cringe).  These books are always the best when it's Kinky and his friends drunkenly stumbling through a new case, snapping off one-liners and stories from Kinky's Texas roots and days as a country singer.  Good stuff.	2004-01-07
US	49362149	R3I2UVYKM9T4KS	0517542099	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	4	N	N	The cult series begins...	The Hitchhiker's Guide To The Galaxy was just about the hippest book for a lot of us in the early 80's.  The cult following begat a franchise of video games, radio programs and a TV series, all of which deal with this dry witted tale of Earthman Arthur Dent and his journey through the galaxy.<br />I'm not sure if the book has aged as well as its most loyal fans would claim it has.  Much of the humor that seemed edgy 20 years ago now seems outdated in a Weird Al sort of way.  Nonetheless, any book that opens with the destruction of Earth can't be all bad.<br />Following our famous cast of characters through the bizarre events that they mostly seem to have no control over is always a pleasure, even when it's a bit of a corny one.  The dialogue is steeped in Adams' very British humor and has always seemed like the best thing about the series.  The conversations between such oddball characters as Ford Prefect and galactic president/scoundrel Zaphod Beeblebrox are worth any lapses into the preposterous.	2003-12-14
US	49362149	R1SIYRXYIBSPOR	0553348973	579811820	Still Life with Woodpecker	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Not-quite-classic Robbins	Robbins fans are usually very fond of Still Life With Woodpecker, as am I.  With its basis in the coke spoons and pyramid power of the early 80's I just can't bring myself to think of it as being on par with Even Cowgirls Get The Blues or Another Roadside Attraction, though. <br />The story of the Princess, the Outlaw, and the pack of Camels is certainly a sharp-witted and fast-paced modern fairy tale.  Like other Robbins novels the focus is firmly placed on wordplay and lessons of the...um, free-spirited.  Unlike other Robbins novels, the characters are not quite as well drawn.  <br />Don't get me wrong.  It's still a masterpiece by almost anyone's standards.  The ongoing arguments between the author and his stubborn Remington SL3 are classic.  Not a page goes by without at least a few Robbins-isms that you just wish you could remember to use in conversation.  <br />Just start with Even Cowgirls... if you're new to Robbins.  Any of them will hook you, but this one isn't the best there is.	2003-07-15
US	49362149	R1NUZFUWWILJZQ	0553349481	681272597	Another Roadside Attraction	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Robbins' first and one of his best...	Some have said that Tom Robbins hadn't fully tamed his maniacal writing in Another Roadside Attraction, but I rank it alongside Even Cowgirls Get The Blues as one of his finest.  No subtlety here, folks, just white-knuckle teeth-baring fun.<br />The story of how a gypsy princess, a free-spirited giant with a bone through his nose, a drug dealer, and a baboon come to possess the mummified body of Jesus Christ at their small roadside hot dog stand and zoo is nothing short of brilliant.  Like other Robbins novels, the storyline often derails into monologues, flashbacks, and especially fables or twisted fairy tales.  It's always astonishing how close he can come to skirting dated 60's rhetoric without losing his edginess.<br />Despite all of its philosophical meanderings, Another Roadside Attraction is a surprisingly light read.  Warmth and humor abound, and it's a great pleasure simply to watch how Robbins performs miracles with words.  Genius.	2003-06-03
US	49362149	R2YZTGN3SZ5MM2	006620979X	63603345	Kill Two Birds & Get Stoned (Friedman, Kinky)	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Kinkster-free Friedman novel!	In Kill Two Birds And Get Stoned author Kinky Friedman has dismissed his private detective alter ego in favor of a new novelist alter ego.  Walter Snow is very different from the P.I. Kinky.  He makes not one mention of country music (although there are still asides regarding Gandhi and Jesus), he lives in a basement apartment instead of a loft, he is catless, and he chooses cigarettes over cigars.  Yet it's hard to forget that the real Friedman is both a country singer and a novelist, someone who has both travelled with Bob Dylan and stayed as a guest at the Bush White House.  These are odd times and Kinky's are always odd books.<br />At any rate, Walter Snow leads a monastic, trouble-free life in his New York apartment, making futile attempts at a follow-up to his one successful novel and attending AA meetings.  That is until Clyde Potts and Fox Harris, Abbie Hoffman-brand pranksters and troublemakers enter his life.  Through a series of events involving a dead fish, a lot of booze and a potent strain of marijuana they become a band of drunken Robin Hoods, taking on the Man and righting all of the wrongs in the world.<br />I wasn't thrilled with Snow as a character.  His sad sack presence just can't be compared with Kinky's cynical and street smart wisecracks, although he does manage to use the word \\"dumper\\" and several filthy remarks about...well, it doesn't matter.  It reads a little like Kinky Lite, some of the life drained away for easier consumption.  Lengthy ruminations about writing a novel are all done with a wink (since it's this very book that Snow is supposed to be composing), and there's some terrific swipes at corporate America.  But, even Fox seems an awful lot like a retooled Ratso.<br />If you aren't comparing this to the first sixteen Friedman novels, it's a friendly enough book with an average ending.  If you are, it's the first Friedman novel in a long time with a plot this engrossing, yet a voice so disappointing.	2003-04-19
US	49362149	R34SEQBDQN1S8K	0679762108	709978746	The Sportswriter: Bascombe Trilogy (1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The mundane done in epic style!	Richard Ford's Sportswriter is Frank Bascombe, a man who you will come to know as well as it is possible to know a fictional soul.  Through his non-event of a life we get to hear the echoes of his soul, and it's done with superb flair.<br />Bascombe, a divorced New Jersey resident who works for a glossy sports magazine, spends a great deal of time worrying that he's stumbling through life too &quot;dreamily&quot;.  He's got a pretty good case, too.  Outwardly, he goes about his business of interviewing, writing, and travel, but it has little impact on him.  At times it sounds like he is simply observing someone else's life.<br />A new lady in his life does little to spice up his neither-high-nor-low state of mind, and there's a birthday and the planned meeting with his ex-wife (referred to as X) at his dead son's grave.  No, it's not a real spirit lifting novel, but none of the good ones are, are they?<br />This engrossing study of American disenchantment is a sort of Catcher In The Rye for middle-aged divorced men when it comes right down to it, but anyone can appreciate this life that is both spectacular and pedestrian.  Also makes a fantastic introduction to Richard Ford's works (as it did for me).	2003-04-16
US	49362149	R39TYN2EXFNDPD	0553579754	600228327	Fear Nothing	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Truly unsettling...	I've often overlooked Dean Koontz novels, with the flawed thinking that an author with his popularity certainly can't be of any real quality. A friend recommended that I try the Chris Snow series, starting here with Fear Nothing, and I was surprised at how entertained that I was.<br />Since our hero, Chris, suffers from a rare affliction that keeps him from almost any light source, every page of the book takes place in relative (and sometimes total) darkness. When his town begins its horrific change at the hands of the evil experiments conducted at the nearby military base...well, monkeys just aren't as much fun as we're led to believe. <br />The few friends that Chris can count on (including Orson, the too-smart canine) are all fantastic characters that repeatedly lighten the storyline from its morbid undercurrents. Surfer Bobby is such a joy to read about that I found myself wishing he was in more of the book than he was.<br />Finally, I was a little shaken by some of the more suspenseful passages...and there are a few. Chris' nighttime world is exposed bit by bit, oftentimes building anxiety over a number of pages. There is a time or two that it's handled a little clumsily or drawn-out, but more often than not the edginess is very effective.<br />As an introduction to Koontz, Fear Nothing was successful, as well as being a fantastic start to what will surely be a great series.	2003-02-10
US	49362149	R1DZ0KQHDUSG69	0385245610	182639649	NIGHT OF SHADOWS (A Double d Western)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Turn-of-the-century Western is so-so...	This, the follow-up to the excellent Graves' Retreat, has only the setting and time period in common with its predecessor (Cedar Rapids, Iowa, in the late 1800's).  Perhaps Gorman would have been more successful treating this more like a sequel, but Night of Shadows introduces us to Anna Tolan, the first uniformed policeman in town.<br />Anna does have her hands full.  Zipping around town on her new bicycle, she has to keep up with a suitor that won't take &quot;no&quot;, a gunfighter with a drinking problem who's rolled into town to visit a sick friend, and a troubled middle-aged man who's overbearing mother has turned him into a ruthless killer.  It's all a little much plot-wise, if you like your Westerns based on some kind of reality.  Without ruining the story I can say that there are some twists in the plot that will make anyone shake their head and say, &quot;What just happened!?&quot;<br />Gorman's study of the historical side of Cedar Rapids at the turn of the century is more thorough this time out, and the asides about local attractions and news stories of the day are genuinely interesting.  The telephone was just becoming popular, the airplane was still unknown, and the banks of the Cedar River were lined with ice houses.  As with many of Gorman's novels, Iowa residents will find more to like here than anyone.<br />I love Gorman's books and, thank God, there are a lot of them out there to take on.  For fans of Graves' Retreat, however, the 2nd installment just doesn't stand up.	2003-02-02
US	49362149	R28GQ50U66IHKR	0684864886	559317641	Meanwhile Back at the Ranch : A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Kinky's Ranch-Flavored Manhatten Mystery	God bless Kinky Friedman, member of the country-freak outfit the Jewboys and author of 15 novels.  There've been stalls in the series, poorly executed plotlines, and inexcusable scatalogical humor.  Yet, Friedman's detective series based not-so-loosely on himself and his friends, is as fresh as ever with Meanwhile, Back At The Ranch.  <br />I enjoyed Friedman's other Texas adventures, although I'm not sure if readers like seeing him spend an entire novel away from his home base of New York City.  Here we get a perfect mix, as Kinky is balancing several mysteries at once, and one of them sends him down to the Texas hill country to team up with a dog to find a cat.  Yeah, I know...but it's hilarious.  Just read it.<br />The NYC portion of the book has a storyline that is slightly more of a serious nature, and Rambam (one of the more serious Village Irregulars) is brought in to help out with the rough stuff.  An autistic child is missing and a serial killer is on the loose, although any regular Friedman reader knows that the solution to the mystery is often not of great import.  <br />Speaking of sidekicks, why is Ratso only onboard for a page or two?  Perhaps real life Larry \\"Ratso\\" Sloman's success with the reissue of his Bob Dylan book will thrust him back into Kinky's universe.  Sorry, I miss him. <br />While Kinky's rants on life have tamed some over the years, he's maintained a personal touch that connects with people.  It's a short book (like the entries before it) and can be read in a short afternoon.  Expect more Willie Nelson than Ellery Queen.	2002-10-09
US	49362149	R3I7MZ5Y2JI0TS	0684864878	834778047	Steppin' on a Rainbow (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Hawaiian Kinksterisms	While I sometimes feel like the Kinky mysteries have worn thin, I still have to read every one.  In (author) Friedman's quest to keep things fresh he yet again moves the locale from (character) Friedman's NYC home.  This time it's Hawaii and it lends the story a supernatural flair that didn't particularly sit well with me.<br />Nonetheless, it's still the same 'ole Kinster.  This time lovable journalist/teddy bear McGovern is MIA on the islands and the whole crew (minus the glaringly absent Ratso) has to come to the rescue.  That rescue seems to consist mainly of drinking, sunbathing, drinking, and a new bit that involves Kinky's friend Hoover and his passion for limericks.  <br />The plotline is so thin that I get the impression Friedman uses them simply as a vehicle for his often hilarious vulgar lessons and stories.  Any reader not familiar with earlier entries won't get too far.  However, for the faithful it's still a treat to read about our beloved Jewish cowboy.	2002-08-20
US	49362149	R3RRJUDB3OTZ1O	0684803798	987123504	Blast from the Past: A Novel (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Fresh gimmickry keeps the Kinky series top-notch!	I had lost some faith in Kinky Friedman's tales of the Village Irregulars and the \\"mysteries\\" that they take on.  Most folks noticed that the series was starting to get long on drawl and short on substance about the time the gang was searching for Ratso's mother...however, Friedman had a flash of brilliance when he started pulling out new scenarios for his alter ego.<br />First was Kinky going back home to Texas to fight the bad buys on the stomping grounds of his youth instead of the mean streets of New York.  Then we had an entry featuring Willie Nelson as one of the main characters (Roadkill is still the best of the series, too).  Now, in Blast From The Past, Kinky's back on Vandam Street...circa 1979.  That's right, a blow to the head sends the Kinkstah's memory banks through the years to his first amateur detective work ever.  And, to make things even loonier, counter-culture hero (and real life Friedman pal from back in the day) Abbie Hoffman is the center of much of the action.<br />For those of you who've never read a Kinky Friedman book this is not a good place to start.  By this point in the series it's understood that the reader \\"gets\\" Kinky's world and the characters in it.  If you're not familiar with the skidmark-covered couch over at Ratso's place or the unusual greeting that they get every time they enter Big Wong's restaurant...well, go back a few books and catch up first.  Many of the recurring points of interest in the series have their origins explained in this volume as well, but you have to know what the big deal is about.<br />The jump back in time also sends the meter of un-PC behavior skyrocketing.  The Kinkster is eyebrows-deep in the 'ole Peruvian Marching Powder and has just discovered Jameson's whiskey.  It's a high old time (and it opens with Kinky in bed with a strange girl).  It's grand fun and proof that there's still plenty of new ground to explore in the series.  Or at least plenty of off-color jokes, humorous antecdotes, sex, drugs, and a teensy bit of crime-solving.  My faith in this Texas Jewboy is as strong as ever.	2002-06-05
US	49362149	R2IM3HPACV6R99	067186923X	619244799	Armadillos & Old Lace	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Refreshing change of scenery for the Kinster	I snarf down Kinky Friedman books like candy, Lord knows I do, but the last few leading up to Armadillos and Old Lace had started making me antsy for a new scenario or two.  Kinky's adventures in the Big Apple have always been long on laughs and his special brand of folksy/freaky asides, but a little shy on new plot twists.  <br />Adding fresh air to the series is this volume, which takes place over a summer on Kinky's Texas ranch.  This neck of the woods is so gushingly dear to his heart that you can almost hear the children playing and the crickets chirping.  A whole new cast of characters are on board to replace the irreplaceable Village Irregulars, including the Kinkster's father and a young green-eyed love interest.  The cat, of course, comes along for the shaky ride and never fails to jump onto unfortunate spots on Kinky's sleeping body.  Also keep an eye open for Kinky's new companion, a talking car that spouts bits of wisdom at appropriate times.<br />The \\"mystery\\" portion of our tale comes, as usual, almost as an afterthought, but it's an interesting one to say the least.  Some old ladies are getting offed on their birthdays and the local judge and sheriff are clueless.  What can you do?  Bring in Kinky Friedman, amateur detective from the Big City.  Who would've thought that you'd find serial killers and intrigue in Kerrville?<br />This was the best entry since Greenwich Killing Time and I laughed longer and louder than any of them.  Kinky takes his time getting to the story, with plenty of tales of times gone by and bits of wisdom from the famous (and infamous) figures from his past.  Kinky's vocabulary has, at this point, become almost another language filled with terms like \\"rain room\\", \\"agitato\\", \\"killer bee\\" (def: fantastic, usually referring to chicken fried steak), \\"taking a Nixon\\", and \\"Jewish shepherds\\".<br />You might not get it, but if you do you'll discover a friend for life in Kinky Friedman.	2002-05-13
US	49362149	R12K4IHGEU9U1I	0684810514	804089153	GOD BLESS JOHN WAYNE (Kinky Friedman Novels)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Weaker than the rest of the series...	More than once I've heard folks talk about God Bless John Wayne as one of the better Kinky entries, but I'm just not convinced.  Everything from the premise to the by-the-books sleuthing seems both contrived and hurried.<br />For those not in the know, Kinky Friedman's fictional self is a wonderfully Texan detective living in NYC with his cat and a Sherlock Holmes head where he keeps his cigars.  His dysfunctional drinking pals often need his advice/help...and here, Ratso needs Kinky to find his mother for him.  After a little help and a few dead ends (the Kinkster in Florida?) we're off and running.<br />As usual the high points here are Kinky's many asides about music, drugs, women, coffee, Jesus, etc., and while he has never been better in the wit department I'm afraid that we've lost much of the charm of the storylines from earlier volumes.  It's not so bad as to make me quit reading, but I just don't see this one as a stand-out.	2002-04-12
US	49362149	R294W109ZQBNK3	1556113803	575184867	Steve McQueen: Portrait of an American Rebel	Books	3	8	10	N	N	Average account of the screen legend...	Steve McQueen has been a favorite for biographers to tackle over the years.  His infamous off-screen adventures and hard-edged demeanor have almost eclipsed his work in the years following his death (and before, for that matter).  Women loved him and men wanted to be him.<br />Marshall Terrill adds a well-researched and entertaining - if somewhat bland - bio to the stack.  Most of the interviews are with old McQueen cronies intermixed with quotes lifted from other books on McQueen and autobiographies of stars like ex-wife Ali MacGraw.  While 419 pages seems like it would be enough to capture the essense of a man I never got the feeling that I was hearing more than a dry barebones account of his life.<br />When all's said and done McQueen was a hero to many and a jerk to others.  His odd behavior and Joe Six-pack mentalities may have put off some but films like Bullitt, Tom Horn and The Great Escape are proof that he had screen presence and attitude to spare.  This book didn't tell me much that I needed or wanted to know, but would serve as a fine introduction to Steve McQueen.	2002-03-29
US	49362149	R1AQFURO2P6Z04	0395977894	515614189	Fast Food Nation: The Dark Side of the All-American Meal	Books	3	92	107	N	N	Them french fries is bad!	Eric Schlosser's Fast Food Nation seemed like the perfect book for me. I rarely eat fast food, I haven't eaten red meat for years, and I harbor a distrust for the corporate landscape of America. Finally, a look into the secret world of the country's fast food industry, I thought.<br />Unfortunately (or fortunately, depending on the foods you eat), I was disappointed in the \\"expose\\" in these pages. Perhaps it's because I grew up too closely with the farming community or my stint as a teen working in fast food (and enjoying it). Nothing seems all that shocking here. <br />Meat (especially red meat) is processed in cruddy conditions as quickly as possible with no real governing agencies of any power. Fast food makes you fat and is designed to taste good. McDonalds tries to hire cheap labor in the form of the elderly and the young to make more money. Where are the surprises here? If you didn't know these basic facts you can certainly use a stroll through Fast Food Nation.<br />Schlosser seems to have the ridiculous idea that, given the opportunity, Americans would choose healthier food or food that has been prepared in a different fashion. Right. That's why the little cafes and mom 'n' pop restaurants are closing all over the country while fast food signs pop up at an alarming rate and cars overflow the drive-thrus. People like fast food. They like the taste and they like the cost and they like the speediness.<br />One thing that did shock me, however, was some of the more unseemly business practices that the chains use to cut their already-low costs. Some of the dealings (especially with small business loans and franchises) struck me as brazenly un-American and certainly not fair business practices. The conversion of our country to McUSA is sickening for sure, but allowing them to abuse the law while doing it is just as bad as eating there.<br />Bottom line: If you get shaken up easily at the horrors of the corporate farming and meat-packing industries, give Fast FoodNation a read. For many of us there's just no big shock in Americans demanding this way of life and getting it.	2002-03-12
US	49362149	R31S6MDR87VCYK	0786863390	816562542	Crazy from the Heat	Books	2	10	20	N	N	About what you'd expect, I guess...	I suppose that the only reason that anyone would read an autobiography by David Lee Roth would be to either finally get the scoop on his bitter fighting with his ex-bandmates in Van Halen or to pick up the juicy bits of dressing room sex, drugs, and rock 'n' roll from his heyday.<br />Not only does Diamond Dave shed almost no light on the Van Halen conflict, he only mentions Michael Anthony once or twice in the entire book.  The Van Halen brothers rate a few more pages, but only as the reunion \\"scam\\" unfolds in the late 90's.  I understand that Roth doesn't want to sling any more mud, but that's what makes a rock bio a rock bio.  Without it, it's pretty much a lot of chapters about his cars and his house and which comic books he likes.  <br />As far as dressing room stories go, there's a few.  No names.  And there's more debauchery about Dave in Motley Crue's The Dirt than in his own book, so I'd assume he's leaving a lot of the worse stuff out.  To hear him tell it he had a few drinks, tried a drug or two, had a ball, rode his bicycle a lot, did some rock-climbing, and never really had a bad/sad moment or serious relationship in 30 years.  Sure.<br />David Lee's no writer (surprise), and his fragmented sentences and use of words like \\"ginormous\\" make many chapters completely unintelligible.  He claims that this was weeded down from 1100 pages by his editor...I hope the editor got more money than Dave did.  Dave's had quite a life, but a ghost writer is sometimes a good thing.  This book manages to make it all sound very bland and a little bit pathetic.	2002-01-30
US	49362149	R157SJD3WRWB3Q	0786865717	710576433	Hearse of a Different Color	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Another fun (hearse) ride through Baltimore	Fans of detective series should certainly take a peek at Tim Cockey's Hearse series.  Hitchcock Sewell may be a mild-mannered undertaker who plays cribbage with his aunt to see who gets to run the next funeral, but his life always seems to be complicated by a combination of ladies and dead bodies.<br />Baltimore never seemed so interesting.  With his first novel, Cockey set the stage for what should be a long-running amateur detective run.  This time around a dead body is dropped off at the funeral home mid-service in a most unorthodox manner.  No matter.  Hitch has already had a taste for the PI business and he seems to like it.  With help from his horny ex-wife, a dead porn star, and her pouting sister he's sure to have his hands full.<br />What sets the Hearse series apart from the gazillion other wannabe detective series is the pure joy of Hitchcock Sewell's daily existence.  He's surely an everyman, a John Doe.  The dog's peeing on everything, the girlfriend is trouble, and the Chevy Nothing isn't quite what it was in the first novel.  Even the mystery and mayhem is constructed better this time out.  Like last time, it's complex and involves many layers of the Baltimore elite.  Unlike last time, mysteries unravel in a more logical manner and leave the reader a little more satisfied.<br />Give the hearse a test drive and you'll probably find yourself waiting for the next installment like I am.	2002-01-25
US	49362149	R1PCMUG73J70MH	0060392886	8442482	The Dirt: Confessions of the World's Most Notorious Rock Band	Books	4	1	1	N	N	And They're Still Alive!?	Hammer of the Gods, the rock bio that chronicles the good times and the bad times of Led Zeppelin (pun intended), is usually regarded as the ultimate guide for debauchery and bad behavior in the music world.  Although they've never reached quite the same legendary status critically, Motley Crue outdoes them in the excess department...by a landslide.  <br />Love them or hate them, the Crue always remained unapologetic for their ganglike lifestyles.  Drugs, deaths, domestic violence, prison, depression, groupies, and - sometimes - a heck of a lot of fun.  This surprisingly thick and detailed bio jumps back and forth between the main players (the band plus various managers and so forth) and reveals more than any fan could hope for.  As the various versions of the same story unfold it's clear that the guys still don't entirely understand the extent to which the other band members are capable of helping to ruin their very existences.  As if doing drugs and bedding the other band members' wives in public weren't bad enough, they were also usually doing worse drugs and bedding other wives and girlfriends that never got found out.  Until now.<br />Neil Strauss, who helped pen Marilyn Manson's subpar book a while back, has arranged these pages perfectly.  Aside from the &quot;dude&quot;-littered ramblings of Tommy Lee (which are unintentionally hilarious in spots) the band seems to have a pretty good grasp of the terror that they've inflicted on almost everyone they've met in the last two decades.  Mick Mars, who always struck me as being the quietly insane member of the band, keeps his words brief and to the point and comes across as the most down-to-earth (despite his ruminations on spirit worlds and dinosaur extinction theories).<br />All of the &quot;dirt&quot; is here.  Every drug shot up, every car wrecked, every drink drank, and every act of adultery intact.  It's an amazing journey into a world that only a few unlucky souls get to live in, a pure hell that revolves around the adulation of the fans and the medication required to keep that image from fading. While many bands have gone down this road I doubt that any have gone as far as Motley Crue.  They are truly lucky to be alive and able to brag about it and it makes a trashy good time to read.	2002-01-17
US	49362149	R1C8Q7GHEIS7CH	0316779237	383741816	Holidays on Ice: Stories	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Sedaris' Greatest Holiday Favorites!	Sort of a cross between an anti-Christmas card and a greatest hits package, Holidays On Ice makes a great introduction to Sedaris' biting wit or a reminder of why you loved him to begin with.<br />Of course, the centerpiece here is &quot;The Santaland Diaries&quot;, the hilarious retelling of working at Macy's as an elf to the boorish and overbearing parents and spoiled children who come to visit Santa.  Sedaris always seems to me to be blasting both the elite and corporate worlds at the same time he looks down his nose at those that he perceives as lower on the ladder than himself.  But, all's fair in satire, right?<br />Three of the stories are printed here for the first time (three came from his first two collections), and the best is undoubtedly &quot;Based Upon A True Story&quot;, in which a television producer attempts to bribe a church congregation to pressure a fellow parishioner to sign over her story to his network for a mini-series.  The woman in question had surgically transplanted a kidney to her dying son with only a Bible, a barn, and rudimentary cutting instruments.  Although the story is both funny and tasteless, Sedaris' opinions are scathing and clear.<br />This collection is so appealing because all of the fat has been trimmed away and we're left with a short collection of holiday themed stories from one of America's angriest satirists.  If this hooks you, Sedaris' longer collections are just waiting for you to be horrified by them (and I mean that in the best possible way).	2001-12-30
US	49362149	RVKJGRQGCOK8H	0316779490	1192464	Naked	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Off-beat and endearing from page 1	David Sedaris' Barrel Fever was my introduction to his print stylings and, although it was certainly different enough (and daring enough) to get my attention, it struck me as being oddly impersonal. The stories that had the most effect involved his exaggerated autobiographical embarrassment at the foibles of being human and too introspective for your own good. <br />Naked reads like a jumbled life story, where years make little difference but the characters remain the same. Whether he's revealing his painful teen years or the hilarious summers hitchhiking to various parts of this country, every note rings true. Sure, Sedaris' style is still exaggerated and surreal, but that's how life feels a lot of the time, isn't it? <br />A trip to the nudist colony, a stint on an apple orchard that doesn't live up to its glamorous expectations, some backward lessons about the handicapped, and a slew of other selections that are both blasphemous and moving at the same time. It's pure Sedaris. I still haven't seen his perfect work (and some of it, hard as I try, still strikes me as insulting), but it's a terrific read with many great moments.	2001-12-21
US	49362149	R28SK3Y01CDOTL	0970238347	935054449	Musical Chairs	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Great entry in Kinky series	For those not familiar with Kinky Friedman's semi-autobiographical adventures as the country-singer-turned-detective with the skewed take on the world, this one has it all.  This is probably the most outrageous book in the series (up to this point, anyway).<br />Kinky's at his best when he's interacting with the motley crew of musicians, journalists, and lesbian dance instructors who constantly threaten to topple his comfort and peace.  In Musical Chairs, almost the entire cast of Jewboys (Kinky's real life band) are on hand and they're bringing some of Texas with them to the Big Apple.  The only problem with the riotous reunion is that someone wants them dead and is picking them off one by one.<br />No matter how many bass players die the show must go on.  There isn't a lot of seriousness to the Kinky series as it is, and the story is almost an afterthought in this one.  Just sit back and (ignoring a few problems with the hastily crafted ending) watch the un-PC ramblings of the band and Kinky's own problems with cat vomit, the price of chicken fried steak, and dead musicians in the shower (or &quot;rain room&quot;, as the man himself would put it).  Hilarious and very worthwhile.	2001-12-05
US	49362149	R1U6143TYS4F0O	0151002940	788659840	Crooked River Burning	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Take Cleveland (please!)	Mark Winegardner's epic novel takes Cleveland as not only its setting, but also as an integral character, in Crooked River Burning.  Taking place over more than twenty years in the city's history, the characters weave in and out of touch with factual events and legendary figures (Allen Freed, Carl Stokes) in a way that's both self-conscious and proud.  In the midst of Cleveland's terrible problems with pollution, race riots, and corruption there is always a sense that the author loves this city right along with its mistakes.<br />The two main characters, Anne and David, come from opposite sides of the city (which, in this case, might as well be opposite sides of the world).  David is poor and dreams of a day when he will be mayor of his city and Anne is rich and trying to be a society girl without giving up her career-mindedness.  Without giving anything away, it's really refreshing to see how these two keep going in and out of each other's lives without the novel spiralling into hopeless romantic mush.  After all, this book isn't about them, not really.  It's about Cleveland.<br />Enjoyable and surprisingly informative, I breezed through Crooked River Burning without much to complain about.  Winegardner lets his literary tongue wag a little too much as the book goes on, perhaps, and it's not without pretense.  The footnotes he uses get in the way and seem lazy...not to mention the most unreadable  typeface I've ever seen (in the hardcover edition).  However, tackling a subject like this and keeping it enjoyable is quite a task to begin with, and it's pulled off with much style.	2001-12-05
US	49362149	RJPC9TEYHEJLE	0425121631	425740762	Rules of Prey	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Terrific 1st entry in 'Prey' series	John Sandford's Lucas Davenport, a Minneapolis cop, is pretty much what we've come to expect in this genre, and it's a comfortable fit (as far as old shoes go). He's a rough renegade with the heart of gold, some nerdy hobbies to balance out the tough parts and a flock of women who want him...and a cool car, to boot.<br />What makes Rules of Prey so different from entries in other detective series is the absolute attention to detail. The process the Minneapolis police use to track the &quot;maddog&quot;, a vicious serial killer, is fascinating, as are their fumbles along the way (that have embarrassing results for the department). I can't remember a book that built suspense so successfully, and it's done with an unsensational, subdued style that never cheats the reader or glosses over a scene.<br />When I finished this novel I thought, &quot;Somebody finally got it just right,&quot; and I only hope that the rest of the series can live up to this masterpiece. Fans of crime and mystery novels should do some investigating in Lucas Davenport's Twin Cities.	2001-11-22
US	49362149	RN0ALGWVV4USA	0802116604	631616955	Mr. Spaceman	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Tons of science fiction heart	Desi the Spaceman has quite a task before him.  As he continues to hover over planet Earth with his wife Edna - he picked her up in the Walmart parking lot near her home in Alabama - he realizes that his mission is coming to its most dangerous step.  He must reveal himself to Earth and face the possible defensive (and violent) response.<br />Before the &quot;unveiling&quot;, which is to take place on New Year's Eve, Desi decides to hijack a bus of casino-bound gamblers from a dark highway.  He's brought people to his ship before, but these will be the first who are allowed to retain the experience upon their release.  The bus reveals a truly diverse bunch, everything from a punky, confused Christian to a gay bus driver named Hank.<br />Mr. Spaceman is a simple, affecting collection of the very things that Desi is trying to learn from each of the individuals.  Their inner voices, emotions, fears, and - most importantly - their yearnings.  While it sounds a lot like science fiction, it's really more of a gentle, New Age study of the human condition.  Robert Olen Butler seems to have a great compassion (if not always the best understanding) for each of his characters as they reveal their stories to the spaceman.  That sensitive tone carries through the novel without much plot development, but that seems about right.  While there's nothing new here, it's an enjoyable read and I certainly look forward to other works by the author.	2001-11-18
US	49362149	R3ECQ98FRDF2LV	0786889624	243700920	The Hearse You Came in On (Hitchcock Sewell Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Well-told tale of politics and passion	Whoever set the tone for the jacket of Tim Cockey's debut, The Hearse You Came In On, either did not read the book thoroughly or wanted to be the king of the spin docters. It is billed as witty, snappy, funny, screwball, and affectionate (in regards to the setting of Baltimore). While the book is not without a laugh or two and a number of wonderful cynical barbs from Hitchcock Sewell, mortician extraordinare, it is also a twisting morality tale that touches on domestic abuse, political corruption, bitter unrequited love, and a pile of bodies.<br />Cockey does a wonderful job of introducing the reader to Baltimore and the inhabitants of its seedy dives and seedier country clubs. Reluctant detective (aren't they all?) Hitchcock Sewell wanders through the story observing the evidence pile up, but rarely takes part in the action itself. Instead, a real detective with a mysterious streak named Kate Zabriskie takes the initiative and filters the outcomes back to Sewell, who has fallen for her and her secretive ways. It's an odd way to write a mystery novel, but it works. Not seeing most of the action firsthand keeps the reader guessing at how much of the secondhand information is truthful.<br />It's also a complicated novel, but Cockey keeps the pace going as the forerunners of the state's gubernatorial race begin surfacing in the murder of a tennis coach and the suicide of a lonely girl. Just be sure that you don't let the perky title and the whimsical jacket fool you into thinking this is along the lines of Lawrence Block's Burgler series or Kinky Friedman's Kinky series...this is serious stuff, suitable for true mystery lovers.	2001-11-14
US	49362149	R1V87TJC4RW3PO	0425123456	684099776	Frequent Flyer	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Kinky vs. the Nazis	Frequent Flyer, Kinky Friedman's fourth novel starring himself and his outlandish New York crew, takes as its subject matter the time he spent in Borneo as a member of the peace corp as well as the lingering remnants of Nazis tucked away in jungles around the globe.  Kinky has always drawn heavily from his experiences as a cat-loving country singer, but Frequent Flyer is appropriately dark and personal as it sifts through the hatred that's uncovered on each page.<br />Kinky receives a mysterious call to inform him that an old buddy from the peace corp days has passed away, but the open-casket funeral belies the first ominous clue in a string of them...he's never seen the corpse before in his life.  Thus begins the task of finding out where the switcharoo took place and what his friend had stumbled onto before disappearing without a trace.  Not to mention all of the old Nazis that keep popping up.<br />I didn't enjoy this addition to the Kinky saga as much as his first two (Greenwich Killing Time and A Case Of Lone Star), but it's notable for its intriguing subject matter.  Plot has never been the key to a Friedman novel, anyway, as long as our hero keeps popping off life lessons like shots from his bull horn full of Jameson's.  Eavesdropping on his internal dialogue regarding his past is worth the price of admission, and there are many nostalgic passages about his younger days that reveal more about the author than ever before.<br />It's a short book, but unfortunately it's even shorter on character development.  The emphasis here is on the past and Kinky's own thoughts (he even goes to a psychiatrist!).  This was probably a necessary stop along the path to developing what's become one of my favorite sleuths, but it wasn't the most enjoyable by a long shot.  With all of the ruminating going on, there's not much room for developing the storyline, and I was left feeling a little underwhelmed.	2001-11-14
US	49362149	R11CZPS6N3NO0R	0970238320	657102703	When the Cat's Away	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not the best Kinky mystery...	Fans of Kinky Friedman's humorous detective fiction will no doubt enjoy this one as well, with many of the characters in place from his first two novels.  This time around, the mystery revolves around cats, books and cocaine.  Kinky always sticks with familiar territory, and it's like a comfortable shoe for the reader.<br />A couple of ugly tendencies start poking around in this one, however.  Friedman's novels are always filled with people he knows in the real world...from his publishing company, the country music world or just plain old friends.  That's sort of charming and folksy, but when he name-drops just for the sake of name-dropping - and the reader has no clue who he's talking about because it's some guy that he went to college with - it gets a little annoying.  Several times there are entire pages describing events that seem to advance the story not one bit, only to find out that the mini-story is about his real-life publicist or assistant.  I hope his assistant appreciated, because I didn't.  <br />Not to mention that some of Kinky's un-PC rambling (hilarious in the first two books) start to get a little out of hand here.  It grows old to hear the same &quot;I'm a Jew so it's okay to drop asides about tar babies, watermelons, and spics,&quot; stuff over and over.<br />That said, it's an average mystery that doesn't pay off the way Kinky's first two books did.  I'm not giving up on him, though.  Vandam Street, Kinky's cat, the espresso machine, the head and parachute door-opening system and the entire crew that hangs with this Jewish cowboy in the Village keep calling me back for more tales.  Although it's a lull in the series, the premise is far from played out.	2001-11-07
US	49362149	R31J5HCG69BTES	0970238312	492115377	A Case of Lone Star	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Kinky vs. Hank Williams	Kinky Friedman's 2nd detective novel, Case of Lone Star, is better than his first simply because it takes place in the music world, Kinky's other love. Our country singing, cat-owning, cigar smoking part-time detective (with a new espresso machine) once again falls into a string of murders. This time, however, the killer is using the music of Hank Williams to drop his clues.<br />I'll admit that Kinky's mysteries are a little too pat sometimes. The killers always leave &quot;real&quot; clues (not the kind you have to find, the kind you get in the mail or on the doorstep). But, the detective work is sound and that's still not the best thing about this book...the greatest gift we get here is the feel of the music business and the club life (and the people who inhabit that world). I always think of Lawrence Block's Matt Scudder with a guitar when I read the tales of detective Kinky, and that's a compliment indeed. <br />It's an easy read, it's a true page-turner, and it's funny as hell. What more you want?	2001-11-05
US	49362149	R3AW9GPSUZ9QXM	0316779423	685145331	Barrel Fever: Stories and Essays	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Not for some... maybe not for me	Although I had only heard the name David Sedaris in passing (maybe from NPR), it had come up enough times that I was prompted to pick up Barrel Fever. Modern humorous fiction (especially the depraved kind) usually ends up being just right for my twisted mind, but...<br />Sedaris' humor isn't too dark for me. I don't think there is such a thing as &quot;too dark&quot; when you're blasting everyman/woman and the world they live in. It's just that the literary tricks used here to mimic the character sometimes borders on annoying. Example: When an excitable youth is the narrator, Sedaris doesn't mind in the least dropping a half-dozen exclamation points at the end of all-capital sentences. While there's nothing inherently wrong with it, it's none too subtle...come to think about it, nothing is too subtle about this collection of freaks, dreamers and psychos.<br />What is definately great here (and I noticed that I'm not the first to think so) are the non-fiction essays detailing the author's life cleaning apartments in NYC and working as an elf at Macy's department store. In these pieces Sedaris lets some heart shine through while he's looking down his nose at the losers around him. There's a little needed affection for those involved, regardless of how sad the circumstances...the very thing that's missing in many of the short stories. I enjoyed the collection enough to want to pick up another of Sedaris' work and give myself a second opinion. At its best it's reminiscent of singer/songwriter Dan Bern, namedropping celebrities and shocking lines for the sake of the lesson (not just out of meanness). I just wasn't hooked by this one.	2001-11-04
US	49362149	R1SGFS9PK0ZH0A	0783816456	690907295	Double Whammy	Books	4	6	7	N	N	One of his best	You'll either love Carl Hiaasen's books or you'll loathe them.  His usual themes are at play here (defending the ecosystem, corporate land deals, corrupt politicians), as well as well-worn characters like Skink and Jim Tile.  This, Hiaasen's 2nd book, is set apart by the sheer outrageousness of the plot...corruption and murder in the bass fishing industry!?  This one makes Sick Puppy or Stormy Weather look like Grisham novels.<br />If you've never read Hiaasen, this is a good place to start.  If you're already a fan you should've read this one already.  Be warned, though...this may be the most gruesome one of the bunch.  One of the baddies spends half the book with a decaying severed dog's head clamped to his arm.  And, while most of Hiaasen's books carry a serious moral message, it's never fed to us in such a shocking manner.  No spoonful of sugar here.	2001-11-01
US	49362149	R1N6KAJSPIHWCY	0306806118	614323379	A Dreamer Of Pictures: Neil Young: The Man And His Music	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Neil deserves better than this...	Despite this book being a little on the old side (1994), its subject is such an interesting one that it's hard to see how it could not succeed.  Neil Young's career spans 35 years and has seen him performing with Buffalo Springfield and Crosby, Stills, Nash and Young as well as with his own Crazy Horse and as a solo artist.  While not generally considered the smartest rock voice on the scene, Young has more than made up for it with his refusal to compromise.  Both in the creation of his records and in his personal life, he's always made it clear that things run his way or he's gone.<br />One could assume that a book about Neil's life would include many anectodes of life on the road and the rock star excesses along the way.  One could also assume that the same book would dive deep into the interview archives and utilize the artist's own words to explain his actions.  Neither is done here, though.  Instead, we get an below average rock bio with more speculation than fact (and the facts are mostly common knowledge among fans).  Oh, no, Neil's fighting with Stephen again!  Oof.  Young has always led a fairly private life, espcially since the 1980s.  This book just doesn't know any more than the average fan.<br />The only thing that kept me interested in the slightest was the author's sometimes awkward interpretations of Neil songs and albums.  While not every fan will want to see songs like &quot;Welfare Mothers&quot; and &quot;Homegrown&quot; put down as being &quot;appalling&quot; and &quot;horrible&quot;, I was curious to see what the author was going to think of the next song or the next album (if only to cringe and shake my head).<br />If you don't know that Neil liked to yell at Crazy Horse or about his (and his wife's) work with the Bridge School, go ahead and read it.  It's also sort of fun to hear the retelling of the making of Tonight's The Night just because it's a (rare) revealing look at how rock and roll can beautifully fall apart.  But for any true fan (anyone who's listened to Hawks and Doves in the last six months), don't waste the time.  There are surely better bios of Young.	2001-10-31
US	49362149	R3HHBPDECF8QEZ	0312957602	206086560	Blood Moon	Books	3	5	7	N	N	More gruesome than great...	I suppose I'm somewhat predisposed to enjoy Gorman's work since he lives here in Cedar Rapids, Iowa and sets a great deal of his suspense and detective tales in and around the area. It's very satisfying to lie back and watch the action unfold in the alleys and bars that can be seen from my windows. Of course, that alone would not keep a reader coming back more than a time or two.<br /> Although Gorman has done some &quot;hack&quot; work in his time, including a number of genre short stories that, although not entirely unenjoyable, smacked of a needed paycheck, most of the storytelling is fresh and inventive. &quot;Blood Moon&quot; is certainly the most gore-strewn novel that he's ever done, but it's a device seemingly used to shock the reader into ignoring the sometimes lengthy leaps required to get from point A to point B. <br /> In &quot;Blood Moon&quot;, the first in a series of novels about psychological profiler (and ex-FBI man) Robert Payne, Iowa is again the setting for the crimes. New Hope, Iowa, to be exact, a fictional small town outside of Cedar Rapids. Here is where Gorman shines, painting his personal vision of Iowa's landscape and the people who call the small farming communities home. The likeable female sheriff, the white trash couple who's disputes are the stuff of legend, the friendly old curator of the airplane museum...and on and on. Almost every portrait that Gorman paints is believable (if slightly broad).         Little girls who enter New Hope are not living long, as Payne finds out shortly after taking over for a fellow investigator (who, of course, was killed working on the very same case). In no time, even the mother who hired him to find her daughter turns up as another body. Payne is not the type of guy to sweat the little stuff, though, and forges ahead with an investigation that includes the local minister and his odd helpers and a bizarre connection with child porn.<br /> Giving away more would certainly ruin the read, and there is alot to enjoy here. Payne gets a little preachy at times; one gets the feeling that there's a lot of Gorman in there. I get a little unnerved with the old-fashioned attitudes about homosexuality, race, etc...there are even some out-of-left-field negative portrayals of hippie college students and aging bikers. Less world views by the Andy Griffith-ish Payne wouldn't have hurt the story any.<br /> If you want an easy read that pays off with an extremely violent finish the likes of which you won't find this side of Stephen King, this one's for you. Of course, any Iowans that like to see the action close to home (and we don't get to very often) will probably enjoy some of the asides on a few more levels. Gorman is never bad, but this is still shy of great.	2000-11-02
