US	49376705	R17DR3YE0RSXCT	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Fencing Master	I love that one. Year 1868 in Madrid of Queen Isabella. A mysterious woman besets the old fencing master Jaime Astarloa. The beautiful unknown wears  the finest clothes but her wrist is strong. Indefendable thrust. It's an  extremely exciting thriller, a story about power, revenge and political  decisions which are marked by the end of an European era. Because of the  appearance of Adela de Otero who besets Don Jaime to tell him his secret of  the indefensible thrust everything changes for him for one last time.  Suddenly he's in the middle of a fight between live and death and he must  use all his abilities to parry an intrigue which threatens to shatter a  whole nation in its foundations. Well done. You won't get bored.	2000-08-04
US	49376705	R3SZT2N28YD3JO	1930364954	831867195	Battlescars	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Battlescars	Baby McVie's life and dreams are ruined since her ex-husband has gambled  away she owned, including the lost WildFire. Baby hired a private  investigator and she now knows where WildFire is but Baby is not prepared  for what she finds when she reaches her destination, but she is too  determined to regain Wildfire to think of what may happen. The man, Greyson  Jessup knows there is something Baby McVie is hiding and he is resolute to  figure it out. What Greyson wants to know is if Baby is involved and what  it is going to take to keep their cattle and people safe.<br />The book is  filled with suspense and mystery, love and romance. A nice passing time. It  flows smoothly and quickly.	2000-08-04
US	49376705	R3DOTRABU3L83I	1586080172	807573148	The Devil's Gate	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Devil's Gate	Anna Haspura was orphaned as a very young child and sent to her distant relative Tavas Haspura, to be raised at his ranch, The Devil's Gate. Anna had grown up loving the wilderness and the mystic about the ranch and the  people that raised her. Tavas was a demanding man, but a fair man and she  loved him dearly. So when she found out that Tavas didn't have long to  live, she dropped everything and raced home with mixed feelings. She was  anxious to see Tavas and spend time with him and hopefully brighten his  remaining days, but yet dread filled her at having to see Ivan, Tavas's  nephew, once again. He was the reason she had left The Devil's Gate to  begin with. Rumors of the Cult of Akerra performing their evil rituals on  the ranch are surfacing and it is not helping that some of their cattle are  being killed in a sacrificial way. But Anna doesn't believe that the cult  is behind this and that someone is doing this to gain control over the  ranch. Little does Tavas know that when he passed away and left the ranch  to Anna in his will, he put her life in extreme danger. Who can Anna trust?  Every time Anna thinks she knows who she can trust something else happens.  But one this is for certain, someone is trying to kill her.<br />The book is  fast paced,  action packed and full of thrills and chills that will keep  you on the edge of your seat and hanging in anticipation until the end.  Vickie Britton has captured the magic of the remote rustic wilderness and  the mystical heritage of the Basque people and their traditions then mixed  it beautifully to support the events and characters.	2000-07-30
US	49376705	R3KTP2WYLPWAJI	0826410200	101373854	Return of the Goddess	Books	4	4	12	N	N	Return of the Goddess	Two worlds, ruled by different Kings; two princesses, separated at birth - both, heir to a Goddess' power. Trained by monks since infancy, Princess Anora has used meditation to attempt to contact her other half for many  years. However, she has failed everytime. With her world under threat from  the spreading chaos, Princess Anora knows the only way to victory is to  become the double-headed dragon but she can only do this by joining with  Iona. <br />Meanwhile, Princess Iona has spent a pampered life, totally  unaware of her duty. Her mother died when she was only little, and the  knowledge of her true nature died with her. During her confinement she  looks into a magic mirror, which shows her Princess Anora. Finding a  companion, in her time of trial is a blessing for Iona. Finally she learns  of her potential, but she can't contact Anora without the mirror. How will  they ever join? They've to become one if Anora is to save her kingdom and  Iona to save her father.<br />This book is portrayed in realistic details in  excellency. The plot also has some nice twists.	2000-07-30
US	49376705	RVSZ5WCF36EE3	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The Street Lawyer	The story begins when a bum walks into a rich firm and holds ten attorneys. He has dynamo strapped to his body and is holding a gun. He asks one lawyer to give him the facts straight of the IRS reports: how much  money have each of these big-time lawyers donated to charity? By charity he  doesn't mean the local symphony or the high-up charities they give money to  in order to get their name mentioned, but money given directly to the poor  homeless people on the street or the soup kitchens, free clinics, homes,  etc. that help them out? Of course the lawyer can't give a very big figure.  Although no harm results from this short hostage-holding-session (except to  the bum, who is shot by a sniper outside and whose brains explode all over  the lawyer who was assisting him with the figures) and it seems like the  bum was just trying to make a point instead of really hurt anyone, and  although the rest of the attorneys go back to their strenous  trying-to-get-on-top schedule, the lawyer who was asked to tell the bum the  statistics is deeply touched by this episode and wants to find out more.  The lawyer's name is Michael Brock, and he becomes the main character of  the story. Although he is a rising star at the Drake and Sweeney, the law  firm, he gives up some of his billing hours to investigate this incident.  This decision leads him to helping at a free clinic and donating his time  at a homeless shelter. When he finds out what connection the firm has with  the bum, he leaves it, and takes along with him a stolen file. From then  on, he is a crook, and a street lawyer. <br />John Grisham speaks loudly and  distinctly about social problems of the U.S. homeless citizens. You'll be  touched by the characters and you'll feel for them.	2000-07-30
US	49376705	R15DZWGXVIJCDB	0970196415	695780091	How to Become a Technical Writer	Books	3	11	14	N	N	How to Become a Technical Writer	This book is a good guide for technical writing. Bilheimer explains the different kinds of technical writings. In the book, she mentioned the most important quality is to be confident in your ability to learn. That's true.  And she recommends online tutorials for learning different software  programs. The book also offers lists of the equipment that is useful for  being a technical writer and offers tips on making discount purchases at  online auctions and stores. Needless to say, the book includes success  stories of people who started out as average people and successfully became  technical writers.	2000-07-19
US	49376705	RT89VAUWRT9P6	0826410200	101373854	Return of the Goddess	Books	4	5	12	N	N	Return of the Goddess	Two worlds, ruled by different Kings; two princesses, separated at birth - both, heir to a Goddess' power. Trained by monks since infancy, Princess  Anora has used meditation to attempt to contact her other half for many  years. However, she has failed everytime. With her world under threat from  the spreading chaos, Princess Anora knows the only way to victory is to  become the double-headed dragon but she can only do this by joining with  Iona. <br />Meanwhile, Princess Iona has spent a pampered life, totally  unaware of her duty. Her mother died when she was only little, and the  knowledge of her true nature died with her. During her confinement she  looks into a magic mirror, which shows her Princess Anora. Finding a  companion, in her time of trial is a blessing for Iona. Finally she learns  of her potential, but she can't contact Anora without the mirror. How will  they ever join? They've to become one if Anora is to save her kingdom and  Iona to save her father.<br />This book is portrayed in realistic details in  excellency. The plot also has some nice twists.	2000-07-19
US	49376705	R3UTZTI4OBM97R	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	3	0	0	N	N	The Street Lawyer	The story begins when a bum walks into a rich firm and holds ten attorneys. He has dynamo strapped to his body and is holding a gun. He asks  one lawyer to give him the facts straight of the IRS reports: how much  money have each of these big-time lawyers donated to charity? By charity he  doesn't mean the local symphony or the high-up charities they give money to  in order to get their name mentioned, but money given directly to the poor  homeless people on the street or the soup kitchens, free clinics, homes,  etc. that help them out? Of course the lawyer can't give a very big figure.  Although no harm results from this short hostage-holding-session (except to  the bum, who is shot by a sniper outside and whose brains explode all over  the lawyer who was assisting him with the figures) and it seems like the  bum was just trying to make a point instead of really hurt anyone, and  although the rest of the attorneys go back to their strenous  trying-to-get-on-top schedule, the lawyer who was asked to tell the bum the  statistics is deeply touched by this episode and wants to find out more.  The lawyer's name is Michael Brock, and he becomes the main character of  the story. Although he is a rising star at the Drake and Sweeney, the law  firm, he gives up some of his billing hours to investigate this incident.  This decision leads him to helping at a free clinic and donating his time  at a homeless shelter. When he finds out what connection the firm has with  the bum, he leaves it, and takes along with him a stolen file. From then  on, he is a crook, and a street lawyer. <br />John Grisham speaks loudly and  distinctly about social problems of the U.S. homeless citizens. You'll be  touched by the characters and you'll feel for them.	2000-07-14
US	49376705	R125Y6QPH4CYM8	1551665042	182183173	More Than You Know	Books	5	7	8	N	N	More Than You Know	We all already know that we can't help but enthral from the first paragraphs till the final page is turned. The story is a great mix of action, suspense and mystery.<br />Nicole Loring has had more than her share  of tragedies in her young life. And is distrustful of people in general,  but most especially the police. Having been estranged from her parents for  some time, her only relative with whom she has a relationship, is her  brother. But, Nicole's whole world is turned upside down when he dies  unsuspectedly and she learns through a police detective that they believe  his death was due to his sexual perversions. However, the detective agrees  not reveal this and let his death be labeled a suicide, instead. Nicole on  the other hand, is convince beyond a doubt that his death was the result of  a murder, and vows to prove it... if only someone would believe her.	2000-07-10
US	49376705	R1VEQ2CBBTER16	088282080X	325908600	Viropause	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Male Menopause	During so many years of argument and research. Male menopause is recognized that it exists. Sexual dysfunction, loss of libido, depression and nervousness, lethargy, poor concentration and memory, hot flashes and  night sweats, increased irritability, loss of bone density, and muscle  weakness etc. This list of symptoms now isn't only discussed in relation to  female menopause anymore, but also now applicable to men when their  testosterone levels drop below a certain level.<br />Testosterone is the body  hormone produced by cells of testes which functions in the induction and  maintenance of male secondary sex characteristics. It is used in  infertility, athletic enhancement, erectile dysfunction and libido  problems.<br />Men with low testosterone levels can improve their libido with  testosterone treatment. Once a man is diagnosed as having a low  testosterone level, the next step is to choose which form of treatment to  utilize. As with all medications, benefits must be weighed against the  numerous risks. Age is one important factor in making this decision. In men  less than fifty years old, the goal is to restore libido and erections.  Some of the side benefits include preservation of bone mass, much in the  same way estrogen helps prevent osteoporosis in menopausal women.  Testosterone also improves strength, physical stamina, and general  well-being. It almost sounds like this is the perfect drug. However,  testosterone can increase serum cholesterol. It can also increase the  growth of the prostate, and if early-stage prostate cancer is present,  treatment may stimulate wild growth and the oral form of testosterone is  toxic to liver and heart.<br />The book involves the causes of male menopause,  the changes (physical and psychological) due to menopause and the  treatments etc. An effective and quick read.	2000-07-10
US	49376705	R31YXCGU478LUP	0440235618	133960997	The Dangerous Gentleman (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Dangerous Gentleman	Feeling responsible for the death of his friend, what amounted to self defense, Adrian is tormented by what he believes is his fault, the death of his friend. Spurned by his father all his life and seeing everything given to his half brother Adrian is bound and determined to have revenge on his  father...[Adrian is] definitely a sexy hero to die for.	2000-07-10
US	49376705	R27DEAEO1N1GN1	1929034989	708761917	Sins Of The Father	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sins Of The Father	Young Brigadier General Jebediah Simpson Ellsworth is just one officer in the vast Southern Army. Born and raised in Vicksburg, Mississippi on the Wakefield Plantation, Jeb is a true Southern gentleman. But now Jeb is  forced to examine his beliefs and the things his father raised him to  believe in. He is seriously wounded in a battle at Cemetery Ridge and later  taken to one of the many makeshift hospitals, this one is the home of the  Bradshaw family. This is just the beginning for Jeb. The beginning of a  nightmare, one he could only pray to make it through alive. <br />Miss Faith  Bradshaw has her family home taken over by Union soldiers and turned into a  hospital for the wounded Confederate men. Thus the nightmare begins for  Faith. Faith is a northern lady and her family is very supportive of the  northern cause. After all, her father is currently abroad and working with  Frederick Douglass. Now that Faith is forced to help treat and care for the  wounded Rebels, she must question her own beliefs. These men are not the  heathens that they have been told consisted of the Rebel Army. These men  even though they were now prisoners and on enemy soil, were still nothing  less than true gentlemen. This is also just the beginning for Faith as she  comes face to face with someone that she finds herself drawn to Jeb. A  delightful novel.	2000-07-06
US	49376705	RFYKL87TU6CD8	1928670458	251792706	Flowers in the Night	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Flowers in the Night	The story is about a young woman that feels an outcast to the rest of the world due to a childhood illness that left her partially crippled. This young woman lost her parents when she was only 18. The illness she had as a  child took away her ability to have children. Her one desire is to be a  mother, but all her attempts at singnle parent adoption fail. Then she  meets Nick. He has his neice and nephew to care for, and he is single. Soon  sparks fly between them, but because of Emilys wealthy background and Nicks  poor one as well as his experience with people leaving his life, he does  not feel there is any future for him and Emily, in spite of the growing  attraction between them and between Emily and his neice and nephew. As  Christmas is coming, both Emily and Nick realize their love for each other  is real and strong and lasting. A lovely romance.	2000-07-06
US	49376705	R1PS5ILHOYVZ29	0440235618	133960997	The Dangerous Gentleman (Rogues of Regent Street, Book 1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Dangerous Gentleman	Feeling responsible for the death of his friend, what amounted to self defense, Adrian is tormented by what he believes is his fault, the death of his friend. Spurned by his father all his life and seeing everything given  to his half brother Adrian is bound and determined to have revenge on his  father, when his father disinherits him, and the best way he knows how is  to take away his chance to obtain land by having his son, Adrian's half  brother, marry the daughter of Lord Dashell. So Adrian sets out to twart  that union by offering for Lilliana's hand behind his fathers back.  Adrian's rough edges that needed the touch of Lilliana to smooth out and  though it was a long battle she smoothes them out very nicely. From one who  likes her hero's rough around the edges, but with a heart of gold  underneath the hurt and toughness, Adrian was a dream. The opening love  scene was a scorcher and the sexual tension was felt throughout the book.  Definitely a sexy hero to die for.	2000-07-04
US	49376705	R29WDD3L0PB7WJ	1929613369	222357232	Shadows in the Mist	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Shadows in the Mist	Suzanna Dirkston and her father, Leo are estranged but when Suzanna finds out that her father has died in a tragic accident she's devastated. When she comes back home, she finds there's more to the story than she's been  told at first. She finds out that it may not have been an accident after  all. Leo may have been murdered. Now Suzanna is determined to find out  exactly what has happened. The problem is she's putting herself in all  kinds of danger. <br />Suzanna also finds out that her father has made his  will out so that she has to marry Grant Fenton, Leo's right hand man in  order for everyone to inherit their portion of his estate. Her  half-brother, Colin is in business with her ex-fiance, David and their  business needs the money. She doesn't know who to trust. Then her best  friend is shot. Suzanna feels that the bullet is actually meant for her.  She knows that a lot of people are keeping secrets. Now if she could just  figure out what is going on maybe things will fall into place. Absorbing  and recherche.	2000-07-04
US	49376705	RT7AEQQ7WMQZ0	0967518512	802561901	Horrors of the Holy	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Horrors of the Holy	An anthology of 13 stimulatingly scary short stories.  Each story a different look into the darkness, zombies, vampires, monsters and more. Wilson has created a collection of very different intersting,  spine-tingling stories. The stories are creative and not really  predictable. She uses different perspectives and creative these  highly-entertaining plots. Delightfully enough, she sprinkles humor powder  into irony, artfully. Her au fait writing style makes this a page turner.  Take a journey through the supernatural world. Quick.	2000-07-04
US	49376705	R17KO7MIRY3LUI	0061050946	39744704	Acorna's People	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Acorna's People	Acorna, with the help of her admirers, she has found her true people at last. And they have found her. Khornya, daughter of the illustrious Feriila and the valiant Vaanye, who was given up for lost after the insect-like  Khleevi destroyed their home planet. Abandoned in space as a baby, rescued  and raised by gruff human asteroid miners, Acorna is at last among her own.  The beautiful healing horn in the center of her forehead and the feet and  hands that once set her apart now make her one with the telepathic Linyaari  who live on as lush agrarian planet where they pursue their peaceful  dreams. But Acorna still has much to do before she can enjoy the peaceful  home she is offered. With the help of the rogue spacetrader Becker and his  cat, RK (RoadKill), Acorna must strive to right an unspeakable wrong. In  the search, Acorna and her new friends rescue another survivor, also given  up for lost.<br />With contributions of Elizabeth Ann Scarborough, she  continues the saga of this beloved character in a story that will delight  every fan and win new hearts. Acorna's People is a story for readers of all  ages especially those cherish the magic that lives within their young  spirits.	2000-07-03
US	49376705	R137L8EJGW7TI7	0887392210	910597553	The Devil's Rood: A Group Novel About America's First Serial Killer	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Devil's Rood	The Devil's Rood is a fictional account of the life of Herman Mudgett, also known as HH Holmes, one of the cruelest cold-blooded killers ever to have lived and largely regarded as the country's first serial killer.  Mudgett, a self-assured man whose handsome looks and suave demeanor are  bait for many girls and trusting souls in nineteenth-century Chicago. He  runs his demented empire from a monstrous building called the Castle and  swindles people out of everything from furniture to life savings to land  holdings. Many people lose their lives at his hands as well. In addition,  he is a bigamist, marrying at least three different women under various  pseudos, and a monster, describing his misdeeds to a mute acquaintance  through one-sided correspondence, speaking casually of his conquests as if  such a thing were normal.<br />The Devil's Rood is not a mystery in the  traditional sense and approach. Apprize its unique first-person monologue  style.	2000-06-30
US	49376705	R9ZAFGWVS49PD	0356178978	88602910	Hot Toddy: The true story of Hollywood's most sensational murder	Books	2	17	21	N	N	Hot Toddy	Hot Toddy, natch, concerns the possible murder of a popular 1930s comedienne, Thelma Todd. She's born on July 29, 1905, in Lawrence, MA. She was sweet and spicy with a wisecracking charm and an adroit intelligence.  Toddy was a hot property at Hal Roach Studios (whose arsenal included great  comedy stars of the day, including Laurel and Hardy), and a big box office  draw, having co-starring with the likes of ZaSu Pitts and The Marx Brothers  in her prime. In complete contrast with her onscreen roles, however,  Toddy's life was quite unhappy. She had a tendency to attach herself to  loser boyfriends, she felt the comedy roles constantly foisted upon her  were beneath her talents, and her mother made Mama Rose in Gypsy look like  a simpering housewife.<br />When Toddy was found dead in her car one December  night in 1935, the story was national news. Rumors of suicide, murder by  Lucky Luciano's mob or any of a string of disgruntled lovers swirled around  Tinsel Town, but due to a botched investigation by the LAPD Toddy was ruled  an accidental death. The fact that she drank heavily and often passed out  in her car after a binge supported this conclusion.<br />The author just can't  transpose this compelling story into a good read. The writing, the  dialogues are dry. It could have been much better.	2000-06-30
US	49376705	R10LV7DTRP87QD	0609600869	333501354	The Mars Mystery: The Secret Connection Between Earth and the Red Planet	Books	4	0	3	N	N	The Mars Mystery	The search for life on Mars has fascinated generations of astronomers and stargazers etc. The announcement that NASA scientists may have located evidence of liquid water on the surface of the red planet is only the  latest chapter in the exploration of Mars. As much as the public craves  proof of little green men, the focus of the scientific search has been to  uncover evidence of the conditions necessary for life. NASA researchers  described their approach as &quot;follow the water&quot;. Water is critical  for the development of life and if the presence of liquid water - at or  near the surface of Mars - can be confirmed, scientists will be steps  closer to piecing the life-on-Mars puzzle.<br />Mars is the fourth major  planet from the Sun, named after the Roman god of war because of its  reddish colour. Mars has an elliptical orbit, and so its distance from the  Earth varies considerably. Its mean distance from the Sun is 228 million  km, about half as far again as is the Earth. A Martian day, or sol, is 24.6  Earth hours, and the Martian year is approximately 687 Earth days. The  planet has two small satellites, Phobos and Deimos. Like the Earth, Mars  has seasons because of an oblique axis of rotation and the presence of an  atmosphere. It is, however, much colder: the mean surface atmospheric  temperature is only -23o C. Mars is a small planet, having a mean diameter  of 6,790 km, approximately half that of the Earth. Also, its density, 3.933  grams per cubic centimetre, is lower than that of Earth. Mars' thin  atmosphere is composed predominantly of carbon dioxide, with some nitrogen  and argon. Traces of water vapour have also been detected. The perennial  part of the ice caps consists of water ice and the seasonal parts of frozen  carbon dioxide.<br />Water is a substance composed of the chemical elements  hydrogen and oxygen and existing in gaseous, liquid, and solid states.  Water is one of the most plentiful and essential of compounds. It is vital  to life, participating in virtually every process that occurs in plants and  animals. Water is a colourless, tasteless, and odourless liquid at room  temperature. It's able to dissolve many other substances. The versatility  of water as a solvent is essential to living organisms.<br />In this book,  Hancock states that there's an intriguing possibility that ancient Martian  has been communicating with our ancestors and points out that there maybe a  connection bewteen the remarkable structures of Egypt, say for example,  sphinxs and those of Mars. And if we prove that there once has been water  on Mars, will Earth have the same fate, or else we can protect the Earth  from extinction? The book is written in a precise and neat way. Very  interesting and exiciting.ife, participating in virtually every process that occurs in plants and  animals. Water is a colourless, tasteless, and odourless liquid at room  temperature. It's able to dissolve many other substances. The versatility  of water as a solvent is essential to living organisms. <br />In this book,  Hancock states that there's an intriguing possibility that ancient Martian  has been communicating with our ancestors and points out that there maybe a  connection bewteen the remarkable structures of Egypt, say for example,  sphinxs and those of Mars. And if we prove that there once has been water  on Mars, will Earth have the same fate, or else we can protect the Earth  from extinction? The book is written in a precise and neat way. Very  interesting and exiciting.	2000-06-28
US	49376705	R1XSS6VKX7DYIQ	0060194197	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Hitler's Niece	Hitler's Niece is based on a few crumbs of historical fact. Adolf Hitler did have a half-niece with whom he was in love, and she did die under mysterious circumstances in Hitler's Munich flat in 1931 shortly before the  Nazis took power. From these few crumbs, novelist Ron Hansen has  constructed an entire meal which is satisfying in every way. <br />Geli Raubal  is in her late teens, and pretty, when, post-Beer Hall-putsch, the Nazis  become the right-wing bullies of the Weimar Republic. Bankrolled by wealthy  Germans, Hitler rents and eventually buys a home in the German countryside,  and he hires his half-sister, Angela, as housekeeper. Angela's daughter,  Geli, comes along for the ride. When Geli begins college, Hitler bankrolls  her education, along with an apartment in Munich. This is more than a  half-uncle's innocent largesse, however. We quickly sense Hitler's perverse  interest in her. <br />What's fascinating here is the subtle dance of  attraction and repulsion that Geli feels for her half-uncle. He is famous  by this point, and popular with many of her fellow students. She enjoys  this reflected limelight. But does she enjoy Hitler? Is she interested in  Hitler himself or only in his interest in her? There's a complexity of  emotion here that feels right. Hansen's also smart to make Geli so smart.  In the company of Nazis, she's always sharp-tongued. Goring, for example,  makes a pathetic pass at her and then collapses onto his ottoman in  self-pity. A brilliant novel.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R20EPN40Y5B5BF	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone (Book 1)	Harry Potter has lived a dismal life with his aunt and uncle, the Dursleys. He sleeps in a closet and has never had a birthday party or Christmas presents. Even worse, he has to endure life with his horrible spoiled cousin, Dudley. Then on Harry's eleventh birthday, things change  when a letter arrives, (by owl), inviting him to attend the Hogwarts School  of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Suddenly Harry finds himself among friends,  learning about potion-making and magic-wand waving and broomstick riding.  There're chocolate frogs and Every Flavor Beans and a three-headed dog and  Quidditch-a game better than soccer. Also, Hagrid, a lovable gamekeeper who  befriends Harry; Hermione Granger, a witch who's read all the school books  and knows all the rules; and there's Ron Weasly, Harry's best friend who  has quite a legacy of his own to fill. Hogwarts treats him well, even with  the abomidable Malfoy's mean tricks or Professor Snape's obvious hatred of  Harry. The soon Harry finds himself in the middle of a mystery at Hogwarts,  and together with his two new friends, embarks on adventures he never  dreamed possible.<br />The book is engaging with its imagery, humor, plot  twists and real-life child problems. The book doesn't only appeal to  children but adults as well. She's a master on fantasy. She really can,  with no difficulty at all, think herself back to 11 years old. You will  love the whimsical descriptions, humorous quotes and the fun characters.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R33XOQ64EW0P3G	0140098658	601892192	The Sorcerer's Apprentice (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The Sorcerer's Apprentice	The Sorcerer's Apprentice is a good example for writing, and the inability to write. Exchange Value was chosen by Gardner as one of the best American short stories of 1982 and has become Johnson's most anthologized short  story. Two kids steal from a dead old woman who hoarded her money in fear,  and they become as eccentric as she. How ironic. Popper's Disease has some  interesting insights into racial matters, but then it degrades into a  science-fiction story and anti-solipsistic philosophy. Similarly, Alethia  starts out promising, with a sexy black woman blackmailing her philosophy  professor, but then is swallowed up in dreamlike imagery and the tired  notion that thinking is too much dangerous.<br />Occasionally Johnson displays  that Ron Hansen tic of turning respectable nouns into clumsy verbs, while  his classroom admonishment to get as specific as possible, is here shown to  date stories. Several times he mentions Sanka rather than coffee. Who  drinks Sanka anymore? Wendy Barnes in Alethia also uses trim in the sexual  sense at one point, which seems terribly dated to me. But the stories  aren't bad, entertaining enough, and there are early references to the  Allmuseri, Johnson's fictional African tribe in Middle Passage. But I  wouldn't seek out other Charles Johnson efforts as a result of this book.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	RZF2HDY42TQ2F	0375703438	176981054	Rules of the Wild: A Novel of Africa	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Rules of the Wild	Esme, a young, beautiful, privileged Italian woman, arrives in Kenya, to heal from the loss of her father. She meets Adam, a Kenyan-born white, who operates luxury safaris for other rich and privileged whites. Adam  introduces her to the stark beauty and intensity of Africa, and Esme is  somehow restored and healed. Marciano's writing is heady, rich and poetic,  and we sense a true love for the landscape she describes. She also attempts  to convey her contempt for the white community who do nothing but bark at  servants, dress for parties, and share sex partners. Soon Esme, although  paired with Adam, begins an affair with Hunter, an aloof and cynical  British journalist. Hunter is wounded by the same world that is  romanticized by Adam. He covers the wars in Somalia and Rwanda, carries its  scars, and seeks to understand what he has witnessed, with the lack of  response from the international community. <br />Hunter forces Esme to see  things in a different way, and how she, and the other white community  contribute to the hypocrisy of the Hemingwayesque vision of Africa. Through  these three white characters, we see how Africa is viewed, mis-viewed and  exploited by the Western world. But, they are much more than symbols and  Marciano's writing enriches this. <br />The beauty of the continent is always  there, but also the shadow, always looming, of the brutality of that same  world. Rules of the Wild is an extraordinary achievement. Surpassingly  readable.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R134JFBOY3FHVY	0061098841	999043133	The Count	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Count	Ella is a young widow in modern day London who ekes out a living restoring books at a library. Totally traumatized by the death of her husband eighteen months ago from cancer, she learns from her boss, Dr. Schuber,  that the library is about to close. But Dr. Schuber has another option for  Ella: to meet and marry the son of an old friend. Rudi von Drachenfels, an  Austrian count who needs a wife - and fast. The marriage will be purely a  business arrangement; the wife must produce an heir and the spouses can go  their separate ways. Wealthy and handsome, he seems like the perfect  husband. But the von Drachenfels family is subject to a terrible curse: no  von Drachenfels wife has lived more than two days after the birth of her  first child, which is always a boy. Against everyone's advice, Ella takes  Rudi up on his offer and becomes the Grafin von Drachenfels. She ends up  spending most of her time in a drafty Austrian castle - with the ghosts of  all the von Drachenfels wives. But Ella loves her new husband, and has no  intention of dying. Can she find a way to win Rudi's true love - and stay  alive? <br />The Count is a marvelous fairy tale romance and have a refreshing  storyline. Ella is a delightful heroine - life has treated her quite  shabbily so far, but she never quite gave up. A great teaching. And it is  great fun to watch Rudi change from the cold, doomed Count into a  passionate and caring husband. Family curse and the ghosts are a welcome  addition and give spice to this incredibly entertaining story.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R2N6GPU1X9F718	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Rogue's Proposal	This is the fourth book in Stephanie Laurens' wildly popular Bar Cynster series. The Bar Cynster is the informal name given in the family to the six, extremely handsome cousins. The Bar Cynster members are known for  their way with the ladies and their strong aversion to being tied down. But  three members have already succumbed to matrimony (See, Devil's Bride, A  Rake's Vow and Scandal's Bride), and Harry Demon Cynster is determined not  to be the next victim. So he leaves the whirl of parties of London society,  and heads off to his stables at Newmarket. But there he finds Felicity  Pargeter, a beautiful, independent and innocent young lady, ward of his  next door neighbor, masquerading as one of his stable boys. Intrigued, he  corners her and demands an explanation. Felicity (or Flick as she is  called) is investigating a race-fixing syndicate. Demon offers to help, and  then their hearts dance together. Love is never smooth, they risk their  lives while tracking the syndicate.<br />With the passion and sensuality as  her trademark, Laurens builds a story which is highly romantic, charming,  witty and passionate. I can't wait to read more of her stories. She really  know what she writes!	2000-06-24
US	49376705	RI5WVU51WEJGN	0880482818	250529792	Schizophrenia: Treatment Process and Outcome	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Schizophrenia : Treatment Process and Outcome	Intrigued by the often mysterious causes of remission in the schizophrenic process, the authors of this study turned to an extensive archive of psychoanalytic case histories compiled at the Chestnut Lodge Hospital in  Rockville, Maryland. Isolating cases with a particularly positive or  negative treatment outcome and then reexamining them with a special focus  on the interpersonal processes, particularly those between the patient and  the doctor, researchers hoped to proceed from individual case histories to  arrive at a theory of what patterns are likely to emerge in a successful or  unsuccessful treatment. With this purpose in mind, four case histories are  presented in an easy-to-read, narrative style, with subsequent chapters  utilizing the narrative material to discuss the parameters of the  schizophrenic experience. Finally, the authors isolate a series of stages,  including engagement, attachment, communication, fortification, and  integration, each paralleling a stage in the patient's relationship  complexity, maturation level, and predicted long-term outcome.<br />Although  the authors acknowledge a bias towards a medical and psychoanalytic  orientation, a broader philosophical bias also seems to color this study.  For instance, one patient's interest in meditation, which appears to  provide a very positive and stabilizing influence in his life, is termed a  narcissistic preoccupation. Similarly, the patient's discussion of poetry,  reincarnation, and philosophy is characterized as an effort to rationalize  his difficulties. Other value judgments regarding the manner in which one  adjusts to society and assumes various roles provide a further bias which  may not always be apparent to the reader. While those professionals working  with a similar medical and psychoanalytic orientation, particularly in  traditional settings, may find this study of interest, one would hope there  views would remain adequately open to meet the needs of the schizophrenic  patientwho, above all, needs to be heard more and judged and categorized  far less.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R3RFJA25C32K0H	052594527X	858318999	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Girl With a Pearl Earring	Little is known about the life of Johannes Vermeer. With 35 paintings to his credit he's a bit of an enigma. Perhaps it is that enigmatic persona  that lends itself so well to the genre of speculative fiction. Dutch  Renaissance fiction, and specifically Vermeer, is the dernier cri right now  and the newest contributer is Tracy Chevalier with her novel, Girl With a  Pearl Earring. <br />Chevalier's novel centers around Vermeer's chaotic  seventeenth century Delft household. Enter sixteen year old Griet, forced  to work after her father is blinded in an accident. She is hired as a maid,  but her quiet steady manner and artistic inclination soon have her secretly  working with Vermeer; first cleaning his studio, then grinding pigments,  and finally posing secretly for the painting known as the &quot;Dutch Mona  Lisa.&quot; We watch Griet's transformation as an attractive young woman  who is already aware of her effect on men, to something more complex and  cunning. We listen to her efforts to de-feminize herself to deflect  unwanted attention, her rationalizations in her trading of dispassionate  minor sexual favors to achieve her goals, however vague they may  seem.<br />The beauty of Girl With a Pearl Earring, like a Vermeer itself,  lies in it's deceptive simplicity. The use of sparse, matter of fact  language belies the novel's depth and sophistication. Chevalier magically  weaves fact and fiction. She brilliantly explains the nuances of Vermeer's  masterpiece; the girl's odd expression, its mixture of innocence, guilt,  desire, and fear. This is a poignant bitter sweet story, part coming of age  novel, and part art history lesson, and too wonderful to miss.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	RIUN3SL0NUBFK	0380797526	416833198	The Garden of the Stone	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Garden of the Stone	Bron, the man whom secret prophecy said would restore a balance between mindpower and handpower, vanished decades ago with the Stone - a powerful talisman through which the unfathomable energy and wholeness of the world  can be approached by people with the Gift. Yet though the Stone is gone,  much on the surface of the world of mindpower remains the same. The changes  in the world since the loss of the Stone have been insidious. The theocracy  of the Fortress still rules, maintaining an elaborate charade to keep the  awareness of the Stone's loss from the masses. But constructions built with  Gifts are beginning to fail across the world, and not even the  ultra-conservative Reddened faction of the Arm of the Stone can stop the  apparent unbinding of mindpower.<br />The book expresses well about mankind's  nature and destiny and avoids the obvious position of cheerleading magic  and raspberry of technology. Thoughtful and resourceful, this reflectss  humanity, posing hard questions and exposing weaknesses that we might yet,  with no little difficulty, overcome.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R3VJ0ZVU3PIOXI	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Duke and I	Simon Bassett, the Duke of Hastings, had an arduous childhood. His mother died giving birth to him, he couldn't speak until he was four years old, and his father rejected him because when he did speak, he stutters  terribly. Simon was shunned by his father who thought he was a moron.  Actually, Simon is extremely intelligent, earning a first in mathematics at  Cambridge. But Simon has never forgotten his father's rejection, and  refuses to reconcile with him before his death. He also vows never to marry  or have children. Enter Daphne Bridgerton, whose mother is determined to  find her a suitable husband. Sure she's then foreced to search for the  acceptable husband and endure the churlish men. When Daphne and Simon meet  they decide to fake an attachment, so that other suitors will find Daphne  more attractive and so that Simon is spared the attentions of the  matchmaking mothers. But it soon turns into the real thing. Can the  bachelor give up his solitary ways for the woman he loves? <br />The Duke and  I is humerous, endearing, heart-warming and entertaining. Crisp and funny  dialogues. You'll enjoy this wonderful story as her other works. No  exception. Highly recommended.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	RLZ279LB17R49	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Welcome to Temptation	Sophie and Amy Dempsey come to Temptation, Ohio, from Cincinnati, trying to break out from their wedding-video business by filming a short audition tape to flog their ex-sister-in-law's dead horse of a film career. The  sisters' sensitivity to their background goes into yellow alert the moment  they drive into town. The first people they run intoare a stiff-necked city  council member and his scatterbrained wife. Like most small towns, news  blankets the area in about two minutes, and soon Temptation is abuzz with  talk of the movie being shot in town.<br />Phineas Tucker, unwilling  third-generation mayor and loving, lonely single father. When his chief  political rival suggests that the city pass an anti-porn ordinance, Phin  knows he's in for trouble. He and the police chief visit the farm where the  film is to take shape, and falls reluctantly into unrecognized love at  first sight with the equally taken Sophie. While the mayor and the  buttoned-up straight girl with a con's genes try to alternately fight and  embrace their attraction, the town goes crazy over the movie shoot. Phin's  mother, his mayoral rival, and the actress' estranged second husband all  want the Dempseys and their movie out of Temptation. When one of the  sprawling cast of characters dies suspiciously, it looks like Sophie's  about to be betrayed by a town-boy yet again, and all bets are  off.<br />Crusie's prose is sexy and fun, and Welcome to Temptation might be a  rewarding toe-dip into the pool of romantic escapism for readers who don't  normally go for that kind of thing. The author doesn't flinch from writing  good parts. As a result, the steam fits. Even better, good triumphs over  evil and everybody who needs to be in love ends up that way. Welcome to  Temptation is absolutely worth-reading.	2000-06-24
US	49376705	R3VQ2G1CJRSV08	0380797526	416833198	The Garden of the Stone	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Garden of the Stone	Bron, the man whom secret prophecy said would restore a balance between mindpower and handpower, vanished decades ago with the Stone - a powerful talisman through which the unfathomable energy and wholeness of the world can be approached by people with the Gift. Yet though the Stone is gone,  much on the surface of the world of mindpower remains the same. The changes  in the world since the loss of the Stone have been insidious. The theocracy  of the Fortress still rules, maintaining an elaborate charade to keep the  awareness of the Stone's loss from the masses. But constructions built with  Gifts are beginning to fail across the world, and not even the  ultra-conservative Reddened faction of the Arm of the Stone can stop the  apparent unbinding of mindpower.  The book expresses well about mankind's nature and destiny and avoids the obvious position of cheerleading magic and raspberry of technology. Thoughtful and resourceful, this reflectss humanity, posing hard questions and exposing weaknesses that we might yet, with no little difficulty, overcome.  END	2000-06-22
US	49376705	R2GDGT2Y5OLHDE	059035342X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	312	364	N	N	Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone	Harry Potter has lived a dismal life with his aunt and uncle, the Dursleys. He sleeps in a closet and has never had a birthday party or Christmas presents. Even worse, he has to endure life with his horrible  spoiled cousin, Dudley. Then on Harry's eleventh birthday, things change  when a letter arrives, (by owl), inviting him to attend the Hogwarts School  of Witchcraft and Wizardry. Suddenly Harry finds himself among friends,  learning about potion-making and magic-wand waving and broomstick riding.  There're chocolate frogs and Every Flavor Beans and a three-headed dog and  Quidditch-a game better than soccer. Also, Hagrid, a lovable gamekeeper who  befriends Harry; Hermione Granger, a witch who's read all the school books  and knows all the rules; and there's Ron Weasly, Harry's best friend who  has quite a legacy of his own to fill. Hogwarts treats him well, even with  the abomidable Malfoy's mean tricks or Professor Snape's obvious hatred of  Harry. The soon Harry finds himself in the middle of a mystery at Hogwarts,  and together with his two new friends, embarks on adventures he never  dreamed possible.<br />The book is engaging with its imagery, humor, plot  twists and real-life child problems. The book doesn't only appeal to  children but adults as well. She's a master on fantasy. She really can,  with no difficulty at all, think herself back to 11 years old. You will  love the whimsical descriptions, humorous quotes and the fun characters.	2000-06-22
US	49376705	RCZDNOXAJT8OO	0312252943	394302937	Welcome to Temptation	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Welcome to Temptation	Sophie and Amy Dempsey come to Temptation, Ohio, from Cincinnati, trying to break out from their wedding-video business by filming a short audition tape to flog their ex-sister-in-law's dead horse of a film career. The sisters' sensitivity to their background goes into yellow alert the moment  they drive into town. The first people they run into are a stiff-necked city  council member and his scatterbrained wife. Like most small towns, news  blankets the area in about two minutes, and soon Temptation is abuzz with  talk of the movie being shot in town.<br />Phineas Tucker, unwilling  third-generation mayor and loving, lonely single father. When his chief  political rival suggests that the city pass an anti-porn ordinance, Phin  knows he's in for trouble. He and the police chief visit the farm where the  film is to take shape, and falls reluctantly into unrecognized love at  first sight with the equally taken Sophie. While the mayor and the  buttoned-up straight girl with a con's genes try to alternately fight and  embrace their attraction, the town goes crazy over the movie shoot. Phin's  mother, his mayoral rival, and the actress' estranged second husband all  want the Dempseys and their movie out of Temptation. When one of the  sprawling cast of characters dies suspiciously, it looks like Sophie's  about to be betrayed by a town-boy yet again, and all bets are  off.<br />Crusie's prose is sexy and fun, and Welcome to Temptation might be a  rewarding toe-dip into the pool of romantic escapism for readers who don't  normally go for that kind of thing. The author doesn't flinch from writing  good parts. As a result, the steam fits. Welcome to  Temptation is absolutely worth-reading.	2000-06-22
US	49376705	RDH41LPW4NYWX	0553100637	670191311	Antarctica	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Antarctica	Kim Stanley Robinson is well-known for his Mars saga set in the future on another planet, in Antarctica he brings his formidable talents closer to home to create a hair-raising possibility about our own last continent, the  South Pole.   Intertwined with rich historical information about the  adventurers of yore, their feats and their fears, their beau gestes and  their pettiness, Robinson has given us a relentlessly unfolding drama of  corporate profit-taking at the expense of employees in the most hazardous  of job sites; of ecology protectors contemplating insane protests; of  ludicrous yet intensely frank real-time televised travelogues. In the  beginning, it all seems so clean and mild. The only enemy the weather, then  bad, strange things begin to happen. And as the cracks deepen this isolated  community that depends upon the sanity of the whole to keep it from killing  itself off, finds itself in dire straits from those coming in for fun,  profit or politics. Interesting and didactic.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	R2HY6R4967ULV4	0880482818	250529792	Schizophrenia: Treatment Process and Outcome	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Schizophrenia	Intrigued by the often mysterious causes of remission in the schizophrenic process, the authors of this study turned to an extensive archive of psychoanalytic case histories compiled at the Chestnut Lodge Hospital in  Rockville, Maryland. Isolating cases with a particularly positive or  negative treatment outcome and then reexamining them with a special focus  on the interpersonal processes, particularly those between the patient and  the doctor, researchers hoped to proceed from individual case histories to  arrive at a theory of what patterns are likely to emerge in a successful or  unsuccessful treatment. With this purpose in mind, four case histories are  presented in an easy-to-read, narrative style, with subsequent chapters  utilizing the narrative material to discuss the parameters of the  schizophrenic experience. Finally, the authors isolate a series of stages,  including engagement, attachment, communication, fortification, and  integration, each paralleling a stage in the patient's relationship  complexity, maturation level, and predicted long-term outcome.<br />Although  the authors acknowledge a bias towards a medical and psychoanalytic  orientation, a broader philosophical bias also seems to color this study.  For instance, one patient's interest in meditation, which appears to  provide a very positive and stabilizing influence in his life, is termed a  narcissistic preoccupation. Similarly, the patient's discussion of poetry,  reincarnation, and philosophy is characterized as an effort to rationalize  his difficulties. Other value judgments regarding the manner in which one  adjusts to society and assumes various roles provide a further bias which  may not always be apparent to the reader. While those professionals working  with a similar medical and psychoanalytic orientation, particularly in  traditional settings, may find this study of interest, one would hope there  views would remain adequately open to meet the needs of the schizophrenic  patientwho, above all, needs to be heard more and judged and categorized  far less.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	R2JJ753I5Z99DV	0060194197	359674409	Hitler's Niece: A Novel	Books	4	3	6	N	N	Hitler's Niece	Hitler's Niece is based on a few crumbs of historical fact. Adolf Hitler did have a half-niece with whom he was in love, and she did die under mysterious circumstances in Hitler's Munich flat in 1931 shortly before the  Nazis took power. From these few crumbs, novelist Ron Hansen has  constructed an entire meal which is satisfying in every way. <br />Geli Raubal  is in her late teens, and pretty, when, post-Beer Hall-putsch, the Nazis  become the right-wing bullies of the Weimar Republic. Bankrolled by wealthy  Germans, Hitler rents and eventually buys a home in the German countryside,  and he hires his half-sister, Angela, as housekeeper. Angela's daughter,  Geli, comes along for the ride. When Geli begins college, Hitler bankrolls  her education, along with an apartment in Munich. This is more than a  half-uncle's innocent largesse, however. We quickly sense Hitler's perverse  interest in her. <br />What's fascinating here is the subtle dance of  attraction and repulsion that Geli feels for her half-uncle. He is famous  by this point, and popular with many of her fellow students. She enjoys  this reflected limelight. But does she enjoy Hitler? Is she interested in  Hitler himself or only in his interest in her? There's a complexity of  emotion here that feels right. Hansen's also smart to make Geli so smart.  In the company of Nazis, she's always sharp-tongued. Goring, for example,  makes a pathetic pass at her and then collapses onto his ottoman in  self-pity. A brilliant novel.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	R16G6VM3JBUCYI	0375703438	176981054	Rules of the Wild: A Novel of Africa	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Rules of the Wild	Esme, a young, beautiful, privileged Italian woman, arrives in Kenya, to heal from the loss of her father. She meets Adam, a Kenyan-born white, who operates luxury safaris for other rich and privileged whites. Adam  introduces her to the stark beauty and intensity of Africa, and Esme is  somehow restored and healed. Marciano's writing is heady, rich and poetic,  and we sense a true love for the landscape she describes. She also attempts  to convey her contempt for the white community who do nothing but bark at  servants, dress for parties, and share sex partners. Soon Esme, although  paired with Adam, begins an affair with Hunter, an aloof and cynical  British journalist. Hunter is wounded by the same world that is  romanticized by Adam. He covers the wars in Somalia and Rwanda, carries its  scars, and seeks to understand what he has witnessed, with the lack of  response from the international community. <br />Hunter forces Esme to see  things in a different way, and how she, and the other white community  contribute to the hypocrisy of the Hemingwayesque vision of Africa. Through  these three white characters, we see how Africa is viewed, mis-viewed and  exploited by the Western world. But, they are much more than symbols and  Marciano's writing enriches this. <br />The beauty of the continent is always  there, but also the shadow, always looming, of the brutality of that same  world. Rules of the Wild is an extraordinary achievement. Surpassingly  readable.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	R14EIEM0EDP29A	0452272378	827151772	The Sorcerer's Apprentice: Tales and Conjurations	Books	3	2	12	N	N	The Sorcerer's Apprentice	The Sorcerer's Apprentice is a good example for writing, and the inability to write. Exchange Value was chosen by Gardner as one of the best American short stories of 1982 and has become Johnson's most anthologized short  story. Two kids steal from a dead old woman who hoarded her money in fear,  and they become as eccentric as she. How ironic. Popper's Disease has some  interesting insights into racial matters, but then it degrades into a  science-fiction story and anti-solipsistic philosophy. Similarly, Alethia  starts out promising, with a sexy black woman blackmailing her philosophy  professor, but then is swallowed up in dreamlike imagery and the tired  notion that thinking is too much dangerous.<br />Occasionally Johnson displays  that Ron Hansen tic of turning respectable nouns into clumsy verbs, while  his classroom admonishment to get as specific as possible, is here shown to  date stories. Several times he mentions Sanka rather than coffee. Who  drinks Sanka anymore? Wendy Barnes in Alethia also uses trim in the sexual  sense at one point, which seems terribly dated to me. But the stories  aren't bad, entertaining enough, and there are early references to the  Allmuseri, Johnson's fictional African tribe in Middle Passage. But I  wouldn't seek out other Charles Johnson efforts as a result of this book.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	R3STO4IT0CZDNJ	0871137690	162983117	My War Gone By, I Miss It So	Books	5	5	6	N	N	My War Gone by, I Miss It So	In Sarajevo, the horrors are specific - such as an old couple blasted away by an anti-aircraft gun. In central Bosnia, the horrors come so fast and furious they tend to blend together: vast dislocations of civilians,  haggard correspondents rushing to get to the action without getting killed,  the ethnic cleansing of the Croats and Serbs. One incident stands out: a  young woman raped by a Croat soldier before her bedridden father, who had  recently suffered a stroke and could not walk, talk or feed himself. His  daughter's rape is one of the last images he takes from this world. Yet,  despite such horrors, when Loyd goes to Chechnya in 1995 to witness the  Chechens rebellion against the Russians.<br />Loyd has a matter-of-fact  writing style which augments rather than softens the carnage he describes.  At the same time he can go ballistic on certain subjects: the incompetent  impotence of the U.N. He describes both wars from a ground-level view,  making them more understandable while maintaining their chaotic feel: a  difficult, yet appreciated balancing act. He humanizes how inhuman war can  be. He also describes his own increasing heroin addiction, which, while  interesting, doesn't hold the attention of his war reportage. He telling us  what he's seen in sometimes beautiful, always pungent prose. Its faults are  few. My War Gone By, I Miss It So deserves awards, and mass readership.	2000-06-21
US	49376705	RSXBWVXBMI56C	1573921661	279884929	Slaughterhouse: The Shocking Story of Greed, Neglect, and Inhumane Treatment Inside the U.S. Meat Industry	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Slaughterhouse	Slaughterhouse explodes the popular image of obscure factories that turn dumb livestock into sterile, cellophane-wrapped food in the meat display case. The testimony of dozens of slaughterhouse workers and USDA inspectors  pulls the curtain on abominable hellholes, where the last minutes of  innocent, feeling, intelligent horses, cows, pigs, and chickens are turned  into interminable agony.<br />The agony starts when the animals are hauled  over long distances under extreme crowding and harsh temperatures. And if  the animals refuse to wait quietly to ther deaths. Some will beat the  animals with a lead pipe. It's really scary and thrilling, somehow  disturbing though.<br />You will realize that safety is a major problem for  workers who operate sharp instruments standing on a floor slippery with  blood and gore, surrounded by conscious animals kicking for their lives,  and pressed by a speeding slaughter line. Yes, indeed it's the most  hazardous job in America.<br />So Slaughterhouse mainly focuses on animal  cruelty and worker safety, but it also addresses the issues of consumer  health, one of them is E. Coli (Escherichia Coli, causes infections  including meningitis, septicaemia, urinary tract infections and intestinal  infections etc).<br />We just don't know how animals suffer from cruelty and  now we've to be brave enough to face the reality. The closing statement  just make me in awe &quot;now you know, and you can help end these  atrocities&quot;. Let's applaud Gail for having the compassion. Appaling,  informative and insightful. It's certainly a real eye-opener. This just  make us concern about slaughthouses in our own countries, maybe these are  happening to us too, who knows.	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R2J5UE02YDCCY1	0380805693	132899149	A Rogue's Proposal (Cynster Novels, Book 4)	Books	4	19	21	N	N	A Rogue's Proposal	This is the fourth book in Stephanie Laurens' wildly popular Bar Cynster series. The Bar Cynster is the informal name given in the family to the six, extremely handsome cousins. The Bar Cynster members are known for  their way with the ladies and their strong aversion to being tied down. But  three members have already succumbed to matrimony (See, Devil's Bride, A  Rake's Vow and Scandal's Bride), and Harry Demon Cynster is determined not  to be the next victim. So he leaves the whirl of parties of London society,  and heads off to his stables at Newmarket. But there he finds Felicity  Pargeter, a beautiful, independent and innocent young lady, ward of his  next door neighbor, masquerading as one of his stable boys. Intrigued, he  corners her and demands an explanation. Felicity (or Flick as she is  called) is investigating a race-fixing syndicate. Demon offers to help, and  then their hearts dance together. Love is never smooth, they risk their  lives while tracking the syndicate.<br />With the passion and sensuality as  her trademark, Laurens builds a story which is highly romantic, charming,  witty and passionate. I can't wait to read more of her stories. She really  know what she writes!	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R1JHDDCA65BTGI	0061098841	999043133	The Count	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Count	Ella is a young widow in modern day London who ekes out a living restoring books at a library. Totally traumatized by the death of her husband eighteen months ago from cancer, she learns from her boss, Dr. Schuber,  that the library is about to close. But Dr. Schuber has another option for  Ella: to meet and marry the son of an old friend. Rudi von Drachenfels, an  Austrian count who needs a wife - and fast. The marriage will be purely a  business arrangement; the wife must produce an heir and the spouses can go  their separate ways. Wealthy and handsome, he seems like the perfect  husband. But the von Drachenfels family is subject to a terrible curse: no  von Drachenfels wife has lived more than two days after the birth of her  first child, which is always a boy. Against everyone's advice, Ella takes  Rudi up on his offer and becomes the Grafin von Drachenfels. She ends up  spending most of her time in a drafty Austrian castle - with the ghosts of  all the von Drachenfels wives. But Ella loves her new husband, and has no  intention of dying. Can she find a way to win Rudi's true love - and stay  alive? <br />The Count is a marvelous fairy tale romance and have a refreshing  storyline. Ella is a delightful heroine - life has treated her quite  shabbily so far, but she never quite gave up. A great teaching. And it is  great fun to watch Rudi change from the cold, doomed Count into a  passionate and caring husband. Family curse and the ghosts are a welcome  addition and give spice to this incredibly entertaining story.	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R10W35ORGMAX8Y	0671041738	28834548	Forbidden Garden (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Forbidden Garden	In 1860 England, Anne Sherwood lives only for her work. A widow, she resents the fact that her late husband passed off her botanical illustrations as his own work. Anne has an unusual talent; she can sense  the emotions of plants. Later she becomes an in-house illustrator for Lord  Connock at Glendale Hall in Ireland (he illustrates a new species of tree).  Glendale Hall is full of secrets, and the plants give off the oddest  emotions she's ever felt. Her stay is complicated by Lord Connock's  naturalist, the handsome and glib Michael McEvoy, a botanical adventurer.  She's enthraled by him. Later they realize there's something wrong with the  garden and that Anne and Michael are facing what could be a deadly enemy.  Can love bloom in the forbidden garden of Lord Connock? <br />Paranormal  romance is often a difficult genre in which to write, yet Ms. Tracy Fobes  makes it look easy. She is one of the most inventive of the authors working  in this field. Forbidden Garden is just another fabulous work. Delightfully  creepy setting, wildly passionate love scenes, well-organised plot. And  most important, Forbidden Garden doesn't follow the standard romance steps,  and that makes it more worth-reading.	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R3SQXIF8WQZGE7	0380800829	704647865	The Duke and I (Bridgerton Series, Book 1)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Duke and I	Simon Bassett, the Duke of Hastings, had an arduous childhood. His mother died giving birth to him, he couldn't speak until he was four years old, and his father rejected him because when he did speak, he stutters  terribly. Simon was shunned by his father who thought he was a moron.  Actually, Simon is extremely intelligent, earning a first in mathematics at  Cambridge. But Simon has never forgotten his father's rejection, and  refuses to reconcile with him before his death. He also vows never to marry  or have children. Enter Daphne Bridgerton, whose mother is determined to  find her a suitable husband. Sure she's then foreced to search for the  acceptable husband and endure the churlish men. When Daphne and Simon meet  they decide to fake an attachment, so that other suitors will find Daphne  more attractive and so that Simon is spared the attentions of the  matchmaking mothers. But it soon turns into the real thing. Can the  bachelor give up his solitary ways for the woman he loves? <br />The Duke and  I is humerous, endearing, heart-warming and entertaining. Crisp and funny  dialogues. You'll enjoy this wonderful story as her other works. No  exception. Highly recommended.	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R2BBMC8Z0KEME	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Nightshade	Nightshade is a poisonous European plant, also known as Belladonna. This title implies that something is deteriorating rapidly - the world of New Hampshire's Hapgood family. Actually one more meaning, I'll mention it  later in this review.<br />Let's start with the Hapgood house, we've Matt  Moore, his mom Joan, his stepdad Bill Hapgood and his grandmom Emily Moore.  Life looks great and sweet but it starts turning to nightmare when Emily  (she has Alzheimer's Disease, a brain disease that impairs mental and  emotional functions) accidentally burns down her own house and moves in  with the Hapgoods. Then Emily claimed Cynthia (who is Joan's sister and  dead) has returned. Moreover, Matt starts to have erotic dreams that  Cynthia satisfies herself on him and leaving behind the pungent scent of  her Nightshade perfume. Then one day Bill is killed while hunting with Matt  and no doubt Matt is then accused to be the killer. Finally, Joan is trying  to find the real killer and the story continues...<br />The author weaves a  fascinating prose with dark family incidents. Trepidation, dread, doom all  gathering. It's a enjoyable read of horror and suspense.	2000-06-19
US	49376705	R21P1O6L73JV6F	0671041738	28834548	Forbidden Garden (Sonnet Books)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Forbidden Garden	In 1860 England, Anne Sherwood lives only for her work. A widow, she resents the fact that her late husband passed off her botanical illustrations as his own work. Anne has an unusual talent; she can sense  the emotions of plants. Later she becomes an in-house illustrator for Lord  Connock at Glendale Hall in Ireland (he illustrates a new species of tree).  Glendale Hall is full of secrets, and the plants give off the oddest  emotions she's ever felt. Her stay is complicated by Lord Connock's  naturalist, the handsome and glib Michael McEvoy, a botanical adventurer.  She's enthraled by him. Later they realize there's something wrong with the  garden and that Anne and Michael are facing what could be a deadly enemy.  Can love bloom in the forbidden garden of Lord Connock? <br />Paranormal  romance is often a difficult genre in which to write, yet Ms. Tracy Fobes  makes it look easy. She is one of the most inventive of the authors working  in this field. Forbidden Garden is just another fabulous work. Delightfully  creepy setting, wildly passionate love scenes, well-organised plot. And  most important, Forbidden Garden doesn't follow the standard romance steps,  and that makes it more worth-reading.	2000-06-17
US	49376705	R2IC3WB7ZG8PKS	1573921661	279884929	Slaughterhouse: The Shocking Story of Greed, Neglect, and Inhumane Treatment Inside the U.S. Meat Industry	Books	4	19	24	N	N	Slaughterhouse	Slaughterhouse explodes the popular image of obscure factories that turn dumb livestock into sterile, cellophane-wrapped food in the meat display case. The testimony of dozens of slaughterhouse workers and USDA inspectors  pulls the curtain on abominable hellholes, where the last minutes of  innocent, feeling, intelligent horses, cows, pigs, and chickens are turned  into interminable agony.<br />The agony starts when the animals are hauled  over long distances under extreme crowding and harsh temperatures. And if  the animals refuse to wait quietly to ther deaths. Some will beat the  animals with a lead pipe. It's really scary and thrilling, somehow  disturbing though.<br />You will realize that safety is a major problem for  workers who operate sharp instruments standing on a floor slippery with  blood and gore, surrounded by conscious animals kicking for their lives,  and pressed by a speeding slaughter line. Yes, indeed it's the most  hazardous job in America.<br />So Slaughterhouse mainly focuses on animal  cruelty and worker safety, but it also addresses the issues of consumer  health, one of them is E. Coli (Escherichia Coli, causes infections  including meningitis, septicaemia, urinary tract infections and intestinal  infections etc).<br />We just don't know how animals suffer from cruelty and  now we've to be brave enough to face the reality. The closing statement  just make me in awe &quot;now you know, and you can help end these  atrocities&quot;. Let's applaud Gail for having the compassion. Appaling,  informative and insightful. It's certainly a real eye-opener. This just  make us concern about slaughthouses in our own countries, maybe these are  happening to us too, who knows.	2000-06-16
US	49376705	R3UAAADYC0H7CZ	0345433297	38926947	Nightshade	Books	4	36	43	N	N	Nightshade	Nightshade is a poisonous European plant, also known as Belladonna. This title implies that something is deteriorating rapidly - the world of New Hampshire's Hapgood family. Actually one more meaning, I'll mention it  later in this review.<br />Let's start with the Hapgood house, we've Matt  Moore, his mom Joan, his stepdad Bill Hapgood and his grandmom Emily  Moore.<br />Life looks great and sweet but it starts turning to nightmare when  Emily (she has Alzheimer's Disease, a brain disease that impairs mental and  emotional functions) accidentally burns down her own house and moves in  with the Hapgoods. Then Emily claimed Cynthia (who is Joan's sister and  dead) has returned. Moreover, Matt starts to have erotic dreams that  Cynthia satisfies herself on him and leaving behind the pungent scent of  her Nightshade perfume. Then one day Bill is killed while hunting with Matt  and no doubt Matt is then accused to be the killer. Finally, Joan is trying  to find the real killer and the story continues...<br />The author weaves a  fascinating prose with dark family incidents. Trepidation, dread, doom all  gathering. It's a enjoyable read of horror and suspense.	2000-06-15
US	49376705	R3QXJFBGLEC9CF	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	66	87	N	N	Flags Of Our Fathers	As this is my first review in Amazon.com, I'd like to greet to all fellow reviewers. I think that's a great place for us to help each other as reviews is a invaluable resource to help us choose a suitable book. I  haven't read the reviews below but I'm sure there're lots of 5-star reviews  and i assure you that it's well deserved.<br />A bit history : on December 7,  1941, Japanese Admiral Isoroku Yamamoto gave the fateful coded message  climb Mt. Niitaka which signalled the attack by Japanese carrier-based  aircraft upon the U. S. Pacific Fleet, peacefully anchored at Pearl Harbor.  On February 23, 1945, U. S. marines climbed another mountain - Mt.  Suribachi on the volcanic island of Iwo Jima and planted an American flag  (the pic on the front cover).<br />The author is the son of John Bradley, a  navy corpsman who who has received the Navy Cross. The book is about the  life stories of the six men that raised the flag on Iwo Jima, before and  after Iwo Jima, as well as the story of the ferocious battle of Iwo Jima in  February 1945 - savagery, courage and sacrifice. The author's voice is  moving, poignant and provoking. <br />I wonder if anyone has questioned why  they were there and for what they were fighting. They only treated them as  heros in their minds. But now, thanks to James Bradley as he described the  war in details. Well actually he wanted to know why his father kept so many  secrets and in trying to find out, he discovered who these men were and why  they were such a big part of his father's life during that deeply and  unforgettably shocking time in history. It shows the love between father  and son, doesn't it?<br />This book is a must in your shelves. I'm gonna let  my father read it too and I'm sure he'll enjoy it.	2000-06-12
