US	49379586	R3CVHXKVUJEOTI	0553213806	167266492	The Dubliners	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Archetype of Short Story Fiction	Perfection is the best way to describe this classic story collection by the legendary James Joyce.  Dubliners follows the lives of ordinary folks in early twentieth century Ireland.  Instead of using dramatic events such as many conventional short stories do, Joyce centered his tales on what seemed to be inconsequential.  This groundbreaking literary formula succeeded and Dubliners went on to become one of the most greatly praised and athologized works of all time.  By focusing on the magnitude of simple things, Joyce provided writing that truly connects the reader with the character through empathy.  Examples of such include Araby in which an adolescent boy seeks romance and idealizes a beautiful girl who pays him no mind, and A Painful Case that portrays a lonely man who is haunted by a relationship he had with a married woman after he hears of her untimely death.<br />Each story in Dubliners contains gorgeously descriptive passages and words that dance across the pages.  Though the themes may be dismal and the people Joyce writes of often come up empty-handed, the reader will likely find an underlying optimism that hardship builds strength and hope will prevail.<br />Interestingly, Dubliners barely came to print.  Years of controversy hindered the 1914 release of the book, as many publishers regarded the stories as immoral and risque.  Fortunately the public embraced it, and today we should all be required to read this enduring work by one of Ireland's finest, Mr. James Joyce.	2002-06-30
US	49379586	RBOMNM24GH1LR	0425143570	188969850	Thunder Point (Sean Dillon)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	As Usual, Higgins Doesn't Disappoint	Once again, Jack Higgins uses his knack for merging past history with modern day thrills in the high-octane adventure, Thunder Point.  Featuring everyone's favorite IRA terrorist turned hero Sean Dillon, this yarn takes to the dangers of the high sea as Dillon is hired by the British government to recover documents missing since World War II.  These papers aren't just old political red tape rubbish--quite the contrary.  They were property of Adolf Hitler and they contained the names of many members of the British establishment who were friendly to the Nazi cause.  Now nearly fifty years later if these documents fell into the wrong hands they would have a devastating impact on Britain's aristocracy and Parliament, as kin of the people on the list were working their way up the ranks in British societal order.<br />In the Caribbean, rumor has it that a U-boat that sank in 1945 which carried Hitler's associate Martin Bormann was discovered by a lone diver in a treacherous remote location.  Coincidentally, the diver is killed in a freak accident just days after finding the U-boat and so he takes to his grave the secret of its whereabouts.  Soon the hunt is on as Dillon and a barrage of enemies are in a race to find it first, thus obtaining the documents Bormann was thought to carry.<br />The Sean Dillon series is always addictive action-packed stay up all night reading.  Thunder Point is only a slight notch below Higgins' best Dillon tales.  Even Clive Cussler's Dirk Pitt can't hold a candle to Sean Dillon's considerable scuba diving talents in Thunder Point.  But then again, is there any area where the illustrious Dillon doesn't excel?  After all, this man is an accomplished theatre actor who speaks fluent German, Spanish, French, Arabic, Italian, and Russian, not to mention English and Irish.  He's a master of disguises, transforming his looks, voice, and mannerism to suit the occasion.  He's an expert skydiver, scuba diver, martial artist, and airplane pilot.  He single-handedly can take down an entourage of men with his fists.  He's one of the best pistol shots on the globe.  He's been a gun for hire not only for the IRA but also for the PLO and KGB.  Oh, and did I forget to mention that women find him to be fantastic between the sheets?  Do men like this exist in real life?  I think not, but if one does please send him my way.<br />Thank God for fiction and thank you Jack Higgins for giving me a dose of the unreal.	2002-05-28
US	49379586	RF7P6P6TGQVTZ	0440220440	971761343	Deal Breaker: The First Myron Bolitar Novel (Myron Bolitar Mysteries)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Time To Romp With Myron And Gang!	Deal Breaker is the mystery that introduces us to the down-to-earth sports agent Myron Bolitar.  This thirtysomething New Jersey born former college basketball star is about to establish his rank as an athletic agent when he lands a contract managing Christian Steele, the most sought-after up-and-coming quarterback in the NFL.<br />But not everything is rosy.  Christian's squeaky clean life is thrown into the spotlight when his fiancee, Kathy, mysteriously disappears and the evidence points to murder.  Soon Christian starts coming across clues that Kathy may still be alive and wherever she is, she may carry with her secrets with devastating implications.  Subsequently, Christian decides to call his agent and friend, Myron Bolitar for help.  A former FBI man, Myron still wears his sleuthing hat and so he puts his skills to work as he tries to uncover the truth.  The alleged killer, however, is not finished with his spree.  Other people acquainted with Kathy turn up dead and soon Myron realizes he is wrapped up in a dangerous case that is no random act.<br />I wasn't sure if I'd like a book with sports as its sub-theme.  Sports movies, for instance, have never done anything to wet my whistle.  I'm glad, however, that I didn't let my prejudice side pass this book over.  Why?  Plain and simple the book was a blast!  Besides having a cleverly written plot that has you guessing who did it and why, the humor never ceases.  Yes, murder may be grim but Harlan Coben keeps the air light with witty and absurd characters that entertain and amuse.  You'll be flipping the pages at a breakneck speed to reach the unpredictable conclusion.  And when it's all done I'll bet, like me, you'll be heading to the library or book store to pick up your next Myron Bolitar mystery.	2002-05-18
US	49379586	R5P7I69YIM5RA	0735613826	129419391	Microsoft Windows XP Inside out	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Power Users Rejoice!	Are you an experienced Windows user who is tired of all the operating system instruction manuals rehashing on how to create folders, use the recycle bin, and create desktop icons?  Do you want to dig deep and unlock the real power of XP?  If so, this meaty 1245 page manual is for you.<br />This book covers both XP home and professional editions and it is written with the assumption that you have already mastered the basics.  A great deal of XP education is presented from making the most of virtual memory, to editing the registry, to hosting a Web or FTP site.  Actually, so much territory is covered that it is impossible to list all here but if you need your intermediate to advanced questions answered you'll find it in Windows XP Inside Out.<br />This guide is logically sequenced and pleasing to the eye.  Throughout you will find dialogue boxes that contain special tips, notes, figures, and useful tables.  Eye-popping visuals bring your attention to new features exclusive to XP.  Why not crack open this book and give your Windows knowledge the tune-up it needs to operate accurately, efficiently, and adeptly.	2002-04-15
US	49379586	R2JE4PA1WAIJSL	0425179605	506006678	Some Things That Stay	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Heartfelt and Endearing	In a perfectly pitched voice, Tamara Anderson chronicles life on the move with her quirky unconventional American family.  In the year 1954 the Anderson's settle down in a small upstate New York town.  But Tamara knows she shouldn't get her hopes up too high on staying in Mayville, New York.  Every year of her young life her father who is a landscape artist packs the family up and relocates them in an effort to seek new scenery for his paintings.<br />Longing for a place to call home and dealing with all the stressors of entering womanhood, Tamara's world takes on ever increasing complexities.  For one, the new neighbor's, the Murphy's, introduce Tamara to Christianity, a practice her atheist parents oppose.  Moreover, Tamara's budding sexuality faces temptation as she develops a relationship with the Murphy's son Rusty.  Finally, Tamara takes on her most challenging role; she becomes the mother figure of her family when her own mother takes ill and is admitted to a sanitarium.<br />Tamara is a keenly observant young lady.  The language in which she tells her tale hits just the right note.  The story is full of splendidly constructed passages that stay with the reader long after the book is closed.  Adults and mature teens are sure to be pleased with this novel that tenderly touches the sensitive spot of one's heart.	2002-01-26
US	49379586	R2YMUGPGOG0PA9	0140232451	326397181	William Trevor: The Collected Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Simply Mesmerizing	What more could a Trevor fan ask for than a single book containing 1,261 pages and 85 of his most splendid stories?  No one weaves a tale as fine as William Trevor.  His ability to place the reader into the hearts and souls of his characters is nothing short of remarkable.  His stories do not focus on plot but rather on human emotion.  They center on ordinary circumstances with extraordinary consequences.  From the young schoolgirl with a crush on her teacher, to the betrayed wife, to the obese lonely man longing for love, Trevor covers a wide variety of people who are besieged with despair and striving for purpose.<br />I'm amazed at how often I hear the reply, &quot;William Tevor?  I've never heard of him,&quot; when I speak of my favorite short story writer.  I can't help but to boast about this great man's talent.  He packs incredible power into sparse words that leave an unforgettable impact on his audience.  Perhaps some day when<BR>Mr. Trevor is no longer with us he will receive the recognition he deserves.  In the meantime, his small legion of fans can relish his gift and treasure the fact that we are among the first to appreciate his eloquence and style.	2001-12-18
US	49379586	R29QJ3N32U1MRT	0451199650	947751217	Stealing Time (April Woo Suspense Novels)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Solid Lead Character In a So-So Crime Mystery	NYPD detective April Woo is assigned a disturbing case.  A Chinese-American mother is beaten senseless and her newborn infant is kidnapped.  What first appears to be an open and shut domestic crime turns out to be something more sinister.  April's budding career is on thin ice as she is forced to expose big city names that are linked with the heinous act.<br />April Woo is a strongly written character.  She is bright and ambitious yet she also struggles with insecurities.  She was reared in two cultures and must deal with the clashing of such.  Certainly she is not the super heroine described in other bestsellers.  This quality gives April a realism most professional women can relate to.<br />As for the plot itself, it was somewhat lacking.  The pace was slow, the action was limited, and no big surprises jumped out at the reader.  If you're an April Woo fan you are sure to enjoy it.  If you pick the book up at the library or borrow it from a friend, then give it a whirl.  Otherwise you may want to keep your money in your pocketbook.	2001-12-16
US	49379586	R1K7KCTLI6VA7Q	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Gun Enthusiasts Will Love This One	Bob Lee Swagger a.k.a. Bob the Nailer was the second most successful sharpshooter of the Vietnam War.  However, twenty years later with the glory behind him, Bob leads a secluded life in the woods of Arkansas.  He lives in his trailer with only the company of his beloved dog.  Despite the pain of an old war wound, Bob does not give up his love of guns and hunting.  Countless hours he spends painstakingly making his way through rough terrain to kill big game.<br />But the quiet life that Bob Lee Swagger savors takes a dramatic turn after some so-called intelligence agents approach him claiming they desire his expertise in ammunition.  They make a job offer he can't refuse.  Bob bites the bait.....the trap is set.....hell is sprung.<br />The action shifts into full gear, as Bob's seemingly innocent &quot;job&quot; becomes the framework for setting him up as an assassin.  After the killing of a prominent political figure takes place, Bob the Nailer carries a price on his head and becomes the target of the greatest manhunt in U.S. history.  Amazingly Bob stays one step ahead of law enforcement as he dodges capture whilst collecting evidence to clear his name.  Meanwhile, his only allies are Nick Memphis, a disgraced FBI agent, and Julie Fenn, a woman he barely knows.<br />Stephen Hunter gives precise details on firearms, ammunition, and sniper procedures in this book.  Not having much knowledge in this area myself, I can't verify if his facts are accurate.  However, my hunch is they are, which should please the most zealous gun owners.  Anyone interested in suspense, military conspiracies, and large-scale shootouts will no doubt be nailed to their chair while reading the power-packed Point of Impact.	2001-11-29
US	49379586	R2PET8Z99CQQ9Z	0312966091	809706185	Three to Get Deadly (Stephanie Plum, No. 3) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	This Gal is Plum Crazy!	Stephanie is in over her head once again.  This time the FTA she is assigned to bring in is &quot;Uncle Mo,&quot; Trenton's favorite candy-store owner.  Old Uncle Mo is beloved by everyone in the Burg.  His reputation as a perfect citizen is renowned.  However, it looks like even Uncle Mo isn't above the law.  When he gets arrested for carrying a concealed weapon and fails to appear in court, none other than Stephanie Plum, bounty hunter, is sent to bring him in.<br />Stephanie gets more than she baragains for.  When rumor spreads around the Burg that she is after Uncle Mo, more than a few neighbors go into a tizzy about how awful Stephanie is to be pursuing this saintly gentleman as if he were a common criminal.  But the elusive Uncle Mo isn't easy to find.  He disappears without a trace and while he is gone some shady activity appears to take place around his shut down candy-store.  Stephanie decides a deeper investigation is warranted.  So with her friend ex-prostitute Lulu, now a &quot;bounty hunter in training,&quot; Stephanie takes off on a madcap adventure of tracking down thugs that include drug dealers, zealous preachers, and fanatical militia-like vigilantes.  Meanwhile, Stephanie's &quot;favorite&quot; cop Joe Morelli isn't far from the scene.  The sexual tension that brews between Stephanie and Joe reaches a boiling point.  So readers beware: if you wear eyeglasses they may steam up!<br />Janet Evanovich is back in top form with the third Plum escapade.  I gave number one a strong five star rating, but number two dropped to four stars.  Don't fret; number three proves that Stephanie is anything but dull.  Keep pumping out the stories Janet, you're doing great!	2001-11-13
US	49379586	R284W0ONR6Z0LC	0843947667	187446020	Mischief	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Good Halloween Read	Douglas Clegg's Mischief is a quick, light read.  It is not the type of horror novel that will have you afraid to turn the lights off.  Instead it is the kind of eerie story your teenage friends once told around the campfire.  It is a tale of chills and thrills that is entertaining even if not realistic.<br />Jim Hook seems like a typical high school sophomore.  But life becomes far from ordinary when he enrolls in Harrow prep school for boys.  Harrow is located deep in the woods of upstate New York.  Once a prominent estate, Harrow holds many secrets in its walls, deadly secrets that Jim is about to uncover.<br />The nightmare begins when Jim comes across a mysterious book on witchcraft in the school library in which be becomes engrossed.  The authors of the book once resided at Harrow.  Soon Jim experiences what he believes are hallucinations and delusions.  Strange voices speak to him and the sound of frantic claws scratch at his door.  Then the big trouble begins when Jim breaks the Harrow Code of Conduct and faces getting expelled from school.  The only way out of the situation is to join the Cadaver Society, a fraternity of misfits who can pull strings to prevent Jim from being reprimanded by school officials.  Little does Jim know that by getting initiated into the fraternity he will be living and breathing evil.  In fact, he may just be walking into hell.	2001-10-21
US	49379586	R18JZXMB29WO57	0684804425	233271842	The Pat Hobby Stories	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Hollywood Without The Glamour and Glitz	Pat Hobby, once a successful Hollywood screenwriter, is nothing more than a pathetic has been.  Broke, tired, and scrambling to find work, Pat takes on some unconventional methods to fill his pockets and put his name back on the big screen.  But things don't turn out as smooth as Pat hopes.  After all, as Pat himself repeatedly states, &quot;I'm just a writer,&quot; and, &quot;it's a dog's life.&quot;  Pat's antics backfire and in almost every story he is left with nothing but humiliation.<br />The Pat Hobby stories were written between 1939 and 1940, when Fitzgerald himself was struggling to keep afloat in Hollywood.  Fitzgerald paints the Hollywood scene as cold, calculating, and manipulative.  A place where kissing up is more important than the quality of your talents, a place where the writer gets no respect, and a place that most likely today harbors the same attitude that Fitzgerald so deftly described in his final days.<br />In reading the Pat Hobby Stories, one can feel Fitzgerald's own sense of poor self-worth, despair, and hopelessness.  Yet ironically, a twist of dark humor is thrown into the stories, evoking in the reader an ambiguous response of laughing at Pat Hobby while pitying him at the same time.  This collection is not only entertaining and easy to read, but is one that will give you broader insight into the late great F. Scott Fitzgerald.	2001-10-17
US	49379586	R1VXU5MIYQIU55	0812550765	727713376	Irish Gold: A Nuala Anne McGrail Novel (Nuala Anne McGrail Novels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Fictional Tale Rich in Historical Facts	Young Irish-American Dermot Coyne, an inspiring writer, travels to Ireland to find his roots. His grandparents fled Ireland in 1922 during the troubles and with them they took a secret that could change history. Dermot's innocent probing into his family's past turns treacherous as members of an unknown network attempt to put an end to his investigation. Might Dermot solve the great twentieth century mystery: who killed Michael Collins? Were there millions in gold that disappeared after the Easter uprising and where might it be now? Could present peace in Northern Ireland be at stake because of political maneuvers of the past? Author Andrew Greeley skillfully blends history, romance, adventure, and mystery into this story that examines these questions.<br />This novel is not without its flaws. Case in point, sugarcoated Irish dialogue and a budding romance between Dermot and the flawless Nuala McGrail that is too idealistic to grasp. Still, the thoroughly researched facts make up for the minor shortcomings of the book. Greeley himself describes the story as an exercise in historical speculation. The result of combining fiction with truth is that it adds a new dimension to critical thought. What one may have blindly accepted as bona fide becomes scrutinized. Greeley deserves praise for writing a book that captures the essence of a culture and a generation, while achieving in the reader a sense of self-debate.	2001-09-16
US	49379586	R2JR8JV3A4U3Y7	0553573926	681381779	Vertical Run	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Talk About Disgruntled Coworkers.....	It's no ordinary day at the office for businessman Dave Elliot when he shows up for work and his boss pulls a gun on him.  Narrowly dodging the confrontation, Dave soon discovers his troubles have just begun.  Every colleague, acquaintance, and friend he knows wants to see him extinguished.  Trapped in a New York City skyscraper, Dave, a former Vietnam Veteran and Green Beret has to muster up his old survival skills as he becomes the hunted in an organized murder attempt on his life.  All the while, Dave hasn't the faintest idea why everybody wants him dead.<br />Vertical Run reads more like a movie script than a novel.  It's packed full of action, however, there is really nothing original here.  The story is full of cliches, typical tough-guy dialogue, and harrowing escapes by the hero in a predictable fashion.  The best part of the story is figuring out why Dave Elliot is a marked man.  Unfortunately for myself, another reader a few posts below me gave away the answer in his review.  Perhaps I would have found this a 4 star tale had it not been spoiled for me.  I still recommend this book for any action-thriller lover, but if you enjoy your suspense please don't read the reviews on the next page.	2001-07-23
US	49379586	RPC9OFQUIOHBZ	0151005079	332872233	The Lost Legends of New Jersey	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Bittersweet and Nostalgic	Suburban New Jersey circa 1980 is the setting for this thoughtful novel by Frederick Reiken, which looks at a family in crisis through the eyes of a Jewish teenager named Anthony Rubin.  On the surface the Rubin's are a typical functional working class family.  Michael Rubin is a physician and his wife Jess is a stay-at-home mom to their two teenage children Danielle and Anthony.  But looks can be deceiving, and behind closed doors this family is coming apart at the seams.  Michael is having an affair with Claudia, a family friend.  Jess finds out and suffer a nervous breakdown and abandons her family to make a new life in Florida.  Meanwhile Anthony is trying to make sense of it all while attempting to lead a normal life as a teenager.  Along the way Anthony comes face-to-face with family rivalry, social conflict, sex, drugs, and what he thinks may be his first love.  Although there is an underlying sadness to the theme, Reiken tells the story in a light manner which crackles with humor when appropriate and provides introspective passages when a deeper response is warranted from the reader.<br />I knew nothing of Frederick Reiken when I bought this book.  To be honest, I bought this book only because of its title.  Like the main character, Anthony Rubin, I was a teenager in the early 1980's growing up in New Jersey.  I was even raised in a Jewish stepfamily, thus I felt this coming of age novel would be something I could relate to.  But there was much more to this book than a few similarities to my life.  The story Reiken weaves is one straight from the heart, one which captures the self-discovery and awkwardness we all face when entering adulthood.  For a fresh reading experience that will leave you pondering over your past and how it has shaped your life today, open The Lost Legends of New Jersey and savor every word.	2001-05-30
US	49379586	R2YI63XTGHK510	0440224047	597135386	Purple Cane Road (Dave Robicheaux)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Crime Fiction At Its' Finest	James Lee Burke takes his readers to the swampy, backwoods of Louisiana in his latest Dave Robicheaux mystery, Purple Cane Road.  Detective Dave Robicheaux never knew what became of his mother, Mae Guillory, after she left him behind as a boy.  Last he knew, she was living with a slick, smooth-talking wheeler and dealer named Mack.  But now, thirty years later, Robicheaux is stunned to hear that his mother may actually have been a prostitute who was brutally murdered by local law enforcement officials.  Determined to uncover the truth about his mother's murder and track down her killers who may still be alive and on the job, Robicheaux takes on his most dangerous, and precarious case yet.  To add to the complexity of the story, Robicheaux is also simultaneously investigating the murder of an executioner who was slain by a young woman named Lettie Labiche.  Ms. Labiche herself is on death row awaiting lethal injection, but Robicheaux knows for a fact that the man that she killed molested her as a child.  Somehow Robicheaux must come up with some concrete evidence proving this, thus saving the life of Lettie Labiche.  All in all, the past, present, and future come colliding together to explode into an electrifying drama.<br />James Lee Burke has a knack for capturing the rawness and gritty attitude of the &quot;good ole' boy&quot; network of the Deep South.  What makes this story so engrossing is the realism of its theme.  Who knows what goes on behind the closed doors of legal authorities?  In Purple Cane Road, the men and women of uniform will use any means necessary to cover each others backs.  They will lie, cheat, maim, and even slaughter if they see it justified.  If you are looking for a dark crime novel with psychological suspense that has you sitting on edge, then Purple Cane Road may be the book you've been waiting to curl up with.	2001-05-14
US	49379586	R20S7PV07XQ8CI	0452274524	3759955	The House of Splendid Isolation: A Novel	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Desperate Events Lead Two Lost Souls To Solace	Mutual empathy and an unlikely friendship develop between an IRA terrorist named McGreevy, and an elderly widower, Josie O'Meara, in Edna O'Brien's, House of Splendid Isolation.  McGreevy is on the run and desperately needs to find refuge when he comes across an old farmhouse owned and occupied by Josie.  He takes the elderly woman hostage and they are stuck together in the house for several weeks as McGreevy faces a hostile standoff with the police.  Once married to an abusive, law breaking alcoholic, Josie finds that McGreevy conjures up memories of her deceased husband.  But soon Josie's fear and loath turn into compassion and understanding when she discovers the human side of McGreevy and learns that he too has suffered great losses in life.  McGreevy, who has no desire to know the older woman, begins to admire and respect her, as she becomes sympathetic to his plight.<br />I looked forward to reading this politically motivated Irish story but found it to be only average.  The narrative shifts needlessly throughout the book.  Also, the characters are ambiguous in their feelings.  For example, Josie barely knew her husband when she married him out of desperation.  The marriage was a nightmare from day one, but years later she tenderly runs her fingers through the initials he carved on a tree and she saves his clothing and other belongings and holds them closely as she reminisces?  Lastly, O'Brien's long-winded sentences and verbose prose detract from the story instead of enhancing it.  The following is a sample sentence from page 94:  &quot;He'd love to take her off then, him and Nellie, across the lake and up the lordly Shannon, the Pilgrim's Way, a thing he'd always wanted to do, go through the big locks and the swing bridges, find a mooring at dusk, up to the town to a pub, wakening to the breath of nature, the herons, the grebe, and the mute swan, all around the hills bestirring themselves, heaving up out of the plains, blue and lilac, hills magnifying into the mountains.&quot;  Whew!  Believe it or not almost every sentence in the story reads as such.<br />The disjointed approach and wordiness of the book makes me only marginally recommend it to those, such as myself, who have a keen interest in the struggles of the Irish.  However, if looking merely for entertainment, I'd skip by House of Splendid Isolation.	2001-04-22
US	49379586	R3PO3HX5IUSKLC	0782125158	107383699	Word 2000  MOUS Study Guide	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Only Tool Needed For Achieving Certification	This Microsoft approved courseware is the ticket to achieving certification in either the core or expert Word 2000 exams.  This book covers everything from using styles and templates to creating macros and generating reference documents.  The information is clearly explained, logically sequenced, and surprisingly concise!  You will find a comprehensive list of Mous objectives needed to pass the exam, and advice on how to best prepare for the test.  No matter what level user you are, working through the exercises in this book will give you the confidence and know how you need to breeze through the exam.  Even if you think you are a proficient user of Word, after reviewing this study guide you will likely find that the methods you have used are neither the most efficient, nor the most effective.  Thus, I would recommend this book simply as a tool for improving your Word skills, regardless of whether professional certification is your ultimate goal.	2001-04-22
US	49379586	R10UOTLKQGX2LQ	0425176312	476733020	In the Hour Before Midnight	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Vintage Higgins!	Many of Jack Higgins older books are back in print, including the 1969 novel, In The Hour Before Midnight.<br />Stacey Wyatt is a young and talented mercenary.  Half Italian and half American, he is the grandson of Sicily's most notorious mafia boss.  When an Italian bandit kidnaps a millionaire's stepdaughter, Stacey and his three partners are hired to rescue her.  Making their way into the high altitude, rugged mountain terrain, Stacey and his friends encounter dangers beyond belief.  It isn't long before Stacey realizes that he has actually walked into a trap.  Unknown who the real enemy is, Stacey must use his skills to come out of the backcountry alive and in one piece.<br />Fans of Higgins more recent novels, such as the Sean Dillon series, may notice in this book that Higgins spends a greater deal of time setting up the plot before jumping into the action.  Nevertheless, the story stills reads with all the twists, treachery, and other elements you've come to expect from Higgins.  All in all, In The Hour Before Midnight stands a a solid, enjoyable thriller.	2001-04-16
US	49379586	R1AGRNHKWUOBZU	0440506824	441863657	Bogle on Mutual Funds: New Perspectives for the Intelligent Investor	Books	5	40	40	N	N	A Wealth of Information	For almost a decade now, this has been my bible on mutual funds.  Using a straightforward and candid approach, Vanguard founder John Bogle explains every aspect of mutual funds and the industry behind them.  Never does Bogle exaggerate information or mislead the reader as many other financial &quot;guru's&quot; do to sell their books.  He is a true consumer advocate and his goal is clearly to educate.<br />Covered is everything from stocks, bonds, money market funds, indexing, asset allocation, expense ratio's and the risks inherent not only in investing but in not investing (e.g. the erosion of the dollar vs. inflation in &quot;safe&quot; investments).  Bogle utilizes numerous graphs and statistical data throughout the book to help make his point and to allow the reader increased comprehension.<br />It is important to note that this book was published in the early 1990's.  Since then capital gains tax laws have changed and the Roth IRA was yet to be created.  For more up-to-date information I would recommend reading Bogle's newer book, Common Sense on Mutual Funds. Nevertheless, Bogle On Mutal Funds is a great place to start educating yourself to become more financially savvy.  This book has been invaluable to me and I believe it is key to my investing success.  I find myself often referring to it, expecially now in these turbulent market times just to hear Mr. Bogle remind me to, &quot;stay the course&quot; and I will be rewarded.  No wonder so many admirers refer to the beloved Mr. Bogle as, &quot;Saint Jack.&quot;	2001-04-09
US	49379586	R24X6SOOUVMU	068480154X	655275342	Tender Is the Night	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Fitzgerald's Forgotten Treasure	The renowned success of The Great Gatsby (also an exceptional book) often overshadows the brilliance of Tender is the Night.  The later being Fitzgerald's semi-autobiographical masterpiece that gives the reader a glimpse into the writer's frame of mind and personal struggles.  &quot;Tender&quot; is a true testament to the author's talent and arguably is his most important literary effort.<br />Dick Diver is a young psychiatrist; a follower of Freud and Jung who is working his way up in the field of mental health medicine.  He is intelligent, handsome, altruistic, and an overachiever.  Dick falls in love and marries the beautiful, wealthy Nicole Warren who also happens to be his patient.  Dick and Nicole start out living the high life.  They travel to exotic locations and mingle with aristocrats.  All the while Dick establishes a successful private practice with the help of Nicole's money and becomes a well-respected and sought-after physician.  But soon the happy front the Diver's display to the world crumbles.  Nicole's mental problems begin to resurface and Dick becomes involved with a young Hollywood starlet.  These events trigger a domino of disappointments and downfalls.<br />Anyone who has studied F. Scott Fitzgerald the man will no doubt see that Tender is the Night mirrors his own life with his wife Zelda.  Fitzgerald, a perfectionist in his own career worked tirelessly to establish himself.  Meanwhile, he and Zelda traveled the globe, attended parties, consumed alcohol, lived extravagantly, and carelessly spent all their money before Zelda slipped into insanity leaving Scott to pick up the scattered pieces of his broken life.  The character of Dick Diver grows to become cynical and is left feeling he is a failure.  Sadly, six years after the publication of this book, Fitzgerald himself died prematurely believing he was a failure and destined for literary obscurity.<br />It would be impossible for me to do justice in describing the splendor of Fitzgerald's prose.  His passages are emotionally sweeping and his words strum along as rhythmically as fine music.  If you have time for only one book this year, make a wise choice and consider Tender is the Night.	2001-04-04
US	49379586	R2C5QZ1BZHA3G9	0375706933	985414595	My Cat Spit McGee	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Feline-Human Bonding Told With Southern Charm	Willie Morris grew up in a small Mississippi town where as a boy he was raised with and loved dogs.  He never paid attention to cats; in fact he claims he couldn't stand them.  This dislike of felines followed him throughout his adulthood.  Never in his wildest dreams did he believe he would ever own a cat and certainly not fall in love with one!  But then twenty years after his divorce from his first wife, he met JoAnne.<br />In love again for the first time in years, Willie proposed marriage to JoAnne who readily accepted.  But then he learned that JoAnne wanted a kitten.  Distressed, Willie momentarily contemplated canceling the wedding.  However, their love was true and he grudgingly accepted that he would have to tolerate cats.  Thus began Willie's journey with not only one cat, but also a houseful of cats with one in particular standing out.  That cat was Spit McGee.<br />Subsequently the story chronicles how Spit McGee won Willie's heart.  As their relationship developed, Willie found himself fascinated with how cats think, feel, and react.  He eagerly sought out all the information he could find on felines.  In the beginning he couldn't help but compare them to dogs.  But as he became more educated both through formal learning and hands-on experience, he appreciated them for the unique qualities and characteristics only cats possess.<br />Mr. Morris is a fine example of how most &quot;cat-haters&quot; probably don't truly hate deep down inside.  Rather they misunderstand cats and mistake this for dislike.  Morris's writing is witty, honest, and fresh.  He precisely captures Spit's personality through keen observation.<br />I do wish that Mr. Morris believed in spaying and neutering.  I think that a responsible cat owner supports this and doesn't think that a cat &quot;should have a chance to become a mother or father.&quot;  There are too many unwanted pets in the world today.  However, this is something that perhaps Willie Morris would have learned and embraced had he lived a bit longer and completed his &quot;cat education.&quot;  Nonetheless, there is no doubt that the love between Willie and Spit was true.  Willie's final years were filled with great happiness and Spit was an important part of that.  Shortly after writing this novel, Willie Morris died.  This book is a grand tribute to both Willie Morris and his beloved cat Spit McGee.	2001-03-19
US	49379586	R3AA5ABB2F3XCU	0425148289	721868423	On Dangerous Ground (Sean Dillon)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Delights The Reader With Tumultuous Vigor!	As usual Jack Higgins knows how to thrill.  Former IRA terrorist Sean Dillon, who walks a fine line between good and bad, takes to the Scottish Highlands for this fast-paced adventure.  In 1944 a secret pact was signed by Hong Kong and England extending British rule over Hong Kong by 100 years until 2097 rather then restoring the nation to China in 1997.  However, the document vanishes during an airplane crash over Scotland.  The two pilots survive but the vital paper is lost, and with it the matter is laid to rest.<br />In 1993, the only living pilot confesses on his deathbed to an Italian doctor the details of the covenant.  The doctor, who is from a Sicilian mafia family, informs them of the news.  The mafia has a vested interest in the deal, as they run and own much of Hong Kong's most successful enterprises.  Meanwhile, the reports of the old treaty leak to British officals and like the mafia, they want to get a hold of the paper if it still exists.  But who would be the brightest and best person to overcome the odds in finding it?  Bring in Sean Dillon!<br />The pursuit heats to a boil as the charming Dillon takes on the most powerful men in the Italian underworld.  The Scottish countryside is turned upside down while Dillon and his colleagues Brigadier Ferguson and the lovely Chief Inspector Hannah Bernstein face continous grave danger as attempts are made on their lives.  Indubitably, Sean Dillon outwits the most skilled assassins and finds incredible solutions to get out of the non-stop trouble surrounding him.  Sounds a bit far-fetched?  You bet!  But that's what fiction is all about.  I believe Sean Dillon is one of the most exciting characters in modern day thrillers, even if I do find myself rolling my eyes at the amazing way he works his way out of his predicaments.  Also recommended:  &quot;Eye of the Storm,&quot; my personal five-star favorite by Higgins featuring the ever-clever Irishman Mr. Dillon.	2001-03-12
US	49379586	R35LBXTSIQB4T0	038533396X	378058051	How I Accidentally Joined the Vast Right-Wing Conspiracy (and Found Inner Peace)	Books	4	96	105	N	N	An Objective Political Assessment........Really	Journalist and former radical liberal, Harry Stein, puts together a fine account of how life experiences changed his views and turned him into a conservative.  Mr. Stein presents his beliefs with compelling evidence that would be difficult to argue against regardless of which side of the political spectrum you are on.  Below is a brief list of topics he touches on:<br />1.  Honor:  Why has this become meaningless?  Why do so many      liberals view a man that cheats on his wife as someone who     is just, &quot;trying to find himself?&quot;<br />2.  The Media:  How did it become so biased toward the left?       Insider, Harry Stein, will tell you.<br />3.  &quot;Blame the Victim&quot;:  A phrase directed at conservatives by     liberals.  But in certain instances, such as sexual      promiscuity leading to STD's, are all &quot;victims&quot; 100%      innocent?  What about personal responsibility?<br />4.  Sexgate:  The Clinton scandal.  Initially most liberals were      outraged.  But soon the liberal press made statements such      as, &quot;it's just between Hillary and Bill,&quot; or &quot;let's just      censure the guy and move on,&quot; and even &quot;everybody does it.&quot;     Do we no longer expect our President to set moral standards?<br />5.  Feminism:  Who doesn't support equal opportunity, a level     playing field, and equal pay for equal work?  But did the      pendulum swing too far?<br />6.  Higher Education:  What ever happened to our colleges and     universities mission to preserve and defend the essential      truths of the past while providing a safe haven for open     debate?  How can we have open debate when we must be      politically correct?  Why do we now have &quot;speech codes&quot;      designed to mute talk deemed insensitive?<br />7.  Minority Conservatives:  Why are these people so viciously      attacked?  Why is Clarence Thomas belittled for asserting     his right to think for himself and refusing to have his ideas     assignedto him because he is black?  Is Colin Powel a      trader to his race?<br />What Stein does surprisingly well is that he leaves out the bitterness and condescending attitude that most political authors draw on.  He is actually quite complimentary toward many democrats, never insulting the person, only challenging the notion.  This would be a terrific read for the conservative democrat, liberal republican, or anyone else who teeters with his or her own convictions.	2001-03-11
US	49379586	R29ZN5LQ6QZRZO	0449002640	442800937	The Unlikely Spy	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Satisfying and Cunningly Plotted	Veteran journalist, Daniel Silva, makes his mark as a novelist with, &quot;The Unlikely Spy,&quot; a quality World War II espionage thriller.  The story centers on Britain's top plans for the D-Day invasion and Hitler's attempt to uncover the vital secret of the war; the time and place of the Anglo-American invasion of France.<br />Working on behalf of Germany is the beautiful Catherine Blake, a ruthless Mata Hari type spy who will seduce, maim, and kill in order to help Nazi Germany achieve victory.  Hand-picked by Winston Churchill himself is Alfred Vicary, a successful history professor.  Vicary's job is to run &quot;Operation Double Cross&quot; for M15 England's couterespionage agency.  It is known that Germany has spies stationed in England, but who they are and how to find and break them lands on the shoulders of Vicary.  The war could easily be lost to Germany if vital information is leaked to Hitler.  For Vicary, not only does he face the challenge of foreign enemies, but also he must deal with a few deceitful people in his own department, jealous of his designation by Churchill.  The cat-and-mouse game begins to roll!<br />Silva's book is not entirely original, you will see shades of Follet and Higgins throughout.  Nonetheless, it is entertaining and the historical facts the story is based on are accurate.  I believe Silva shows a lot of promise as a future force in the world of high-spy literature.  With experience he should develop a style which is uniquely his own.  He is definitely worth reading.	2001-03-04
US	49379586	R3DSETRZYYA8KQ	0713484640	904087988	Logical Chess: Move By Move: Every Move Explained New Algebraic Edition	Books	5	22	24	N	N	A Must Have for Every Chess Library!	I am so happy to see this book back in print.  Why it went out of publication for so long is beyond me.  This is the one and only chess book that will paint you a clear picture and truly help you to comprehend the game.  Like the title implies, Chernev teaches the logic behind the moves.  Whether they are openings, combinations, or sacrifices, you will find every aspect of the game plainly explained and thoroughly covered.  Whereas many books leave you understanding bits of strategy, this one will show you how all the moves come together to complete the game as a whole.  If you've ever been frustrated because you know how to move your pieces but don't know which move is best or why, then wait no longer to pick up this classic and watch your rating climb.	2001-02-18
US	49379586	RJHF3UX3LBJC0	0140283323	417477309	The Heart of the Matter (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	160	168	N	N	Indulgence Leads to Demise.....A Thoughtful Read	The Heart of the Matter is not a mystery, a high-octane adventure, nor does it center on an extraordinary event.  Rather it is a story of one man whose faith and character is put to the ultimate test.  That man is Henry Scobie.<br />Henry Scobie is a British assistant police comissioner stationed in a West African coastal town during World War II.  Scobie is a devout catholic who is unhappily married but feels obligated to fulfill his wife Louise's needs and make her happy.  An honest man, Scobie has remained faithful to his wife in their fifteen years of marriage and has upheld his duties as an officer of the law.  But when Louise decides to get away for a while because she does not like the town they are in, Scobie's beliefs and convictions get challenged and he fails to measure up to the man he thought he was.  He winds up falling in love with a nineteen-year old girl and during the affair he feels torn over his desire to be with her yet continue to keep his wife happy and to honor God.  At the same time his work also suffers, as he begins to do business with some unscrupulous characters.  His good reputation and sense of self-worth deteriorates day by day.  Distraught and at the end of his rope, Scobie takes extreme measures to overcome his conflicts and the story wraps up with a shocking conclusion that leaves the reader with plenty to ponder.<br />At times the plot moved slowly, however, Greene did a fabulous job at capturing the ambiguity of the human condition and providing insight into the inner demons that plague us all.  Many of Greene's famous quotes came from this book, including my favorite,  &quot;Point me out the happy man and I will point you out either egotism, selfishness, evil--or else an absoulute ignorance.&quot;  I think William Golding said it best when he stated, &quot;Graham Greene will be read and remembered as the ultimate chronicler of twentieth-century man's consciousness and anxiety.&quot;	2001-01-25
US	49379586	R248GJWZGTNDME	0446608645	186621083	Black Evening: Tales of Dark Suspense	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Horror Fiction Lifted to the Level of Fine Art	Ordinarily I am not a huge fan of horror stories, but I can honestly say that Black Evening is frightfully fantastic.  This spine-tingling collection of sixteen tales explores the dark side of greed, power, and madness.  Morrell is able to pack a lot of punches and twists into his short (but not so sweet) stories.  Moreover, his writing expresses his compassion and intelligence like that of an accomplished literary great.  <br />An added bonus to this book is the foreward at the beginning of each story.  Morrell discusses his development as a writer and shares with the reader his personal tales of triumph and tragedy:  from his meeting with his idol, writer Stirling Silliphant, to the death of his teenage son to bone cancer.  Each story seems to be weaved around an event that touched Morrell's life.  This authenticity makes for a more eerie read.  For example, &quot;But at My Back I always Hear,&quot; is about a professor who is stalked by a female student infatuated with him.  Morrell himself faced this dilemma while teaching at the University of Iowa.  Other scary topics covered include an art historian who follows his subjects' break with reality and ultimate demise; an amateur writer who becomes a best-selling novelist with the help of a ghostly typewriter; and a high school football team that is victorious because the coach is dabbling in witchcraft and produces an evil good luck mascot.<br />Two of the stories in Black Evening won Best Novella, Horror Writers of America Award.  One story was a nominee for this same award and one other story was a finalist for the World Fantasy Award.  Morrell stated that the first piece of advice he received as a young writer was to write about what he feared most.  Obviously he took that advice to heart and left us with some chilling entertainment.	2001-01-12
US	49379586	R3MAGVKPFY0201	0684853760	491166680	Out of the Woods: Stories	Books	5	12	13	N	N	High Praise for Chris Offutt	Presently you won't see Chris Offutt's name on any bestseller's list, but please don't let that discourage you from reading his wonderful work.  In &quot;Out of the Woods,&quot; Offutt follows the lives of ex-cons, alcoholics, gamblers, and drifters as they struggle to find direction and purpose.<br />Offutt's characters share one common thread, they were all born and raised in Appalachian communities in Kentucky.  Reared in a culture in and of itself, these Kentuckians face harsh realities as they try to carve out a path for themselves in mainstream America.  Most grapple with a strong desire to get out and see the world yet simultaneously they fight the urge to return to the comfort and security of home.  In &quot;Moscow, Idaho,&quot; a young prisoner on grave digging duty aims to turn over a new leaf and wonders if he will ever find a woman, a good job, and a town to settle in.  &quot;Two-Eleven All Around&quot; is the story of a man who is so desperate for attention from his girlfriend, that he stages his own arrest in hope that she will hear about it while listening to her radio.  These tales combine perseverance and heartbreak into poetic prose.<br />There have been comparisons of Offutt's writing to that of Raymond Carver's.  Only in my opinion, Offutt is better.  Carver's characters tend to present with a flat affect, but Offutt is able to take the reader subtly and deeply into his characters minds.  Chris Offutt excels at what he writes about because he lived the life of his characters.  He grew up in a small Appalachian community and at the age of nineteen he meandered across the country where he went through more than fifty jobs before returning to home and raising a family.  Chris Offutt has come full circle and there is no doubt that he will find himself a place in the world of literature.	2001-01-10
US	49379586	RRR8WVIMQ9C30	0380726238	733601761	A Drink Before the War (Patrick Kenzie/Angela Gennaro Novels)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	A Dynamite Debut!	4 1/2 stars are what I would give this book if Amazon allowed.  Its no wonder this story published by Lehane was winner of the Shamus award for best first novel.  Private investigators and best friends Patrick Kenzie and Angie Gennaro are given a red-hot political case; recover documents stolen off a U.S. senator's desk by the cleaning lady.  Little do the P.I.'s know that these vital papers, if in the wrong hands, could bring down the career of Massachusetts top officials and provoke the city of Boston into a riot.<br />In their search for the missing housekeeper and the papers she allegedly stole, Patrick and Angie discover that the senator is holding a corrupt and ugly secret.  If exposed, he will surely face ruin and a race &quot;war&quot; will erupt due to the nature of his dirty deed.  Car chases, dodging bullets, and confrontations with cold-blooded killers are just a few of the sticky situations Patrick and Angie get caught up in.  In the meantime, they are struggling to keep their relationship on the professional level, which is not easy for either of them.  Patrick knows that he is in love with Angie, however, she is married to an abusive husband and is afraid to leave for fear of her life.<br />I give Lehane a lot of credit for addressing the issue of race and how racial tensions and stereotypes are generated.  This is a sensitive subject which many writers would probably fear to express secondary to being politically incorrect.  Lehane gives an honest and objective viewpoint as to how people of different ethnic backgrounds scrutinize one another.  Another thing I loved about the story was the detailed and accurate description of the city of Boston.  If you've ever been to Boston, you'll know exactly what streets, buildings, and landmarks, Lehane speaks of.  I hope Lehane keeps up the good gritty writing because he certainly has a knack for it.	2000-12-03
US	49379586	R1UQ78VRYON0MM	0671001795	876638734	Two for the Dough (Stephanie Plum, No. 2) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Stephanie Simply Sizzles!	Everyone's favorite bounty hunter is back!  It is three months after Stephanie Plum's debut in One for the Money that established her career in catching deadbeat bond jumpers.  This time Stephanie decides to take an &quot;easier&quot; case, track down Kenny Mancuso, a young first time offender accused of shooting his best friend during a dispute.  Stephanie thinks this case will be a piece of cake, after all Kenny is probably nervous about checking into the big house and will succumb to an authoritative figure such as herself.  But trouble looms ahead;  Mancuso is involved in much more than a heat of the moment shooting.  And to make matter worse, Mancuso is cousin to none other than Joe Morelli, the cop who Stephanie continues to have a love/hate affiliation with.<br />With the help of her mentor, Ranger, and her madcap Grandma Mazur, Stephanie finds herself caught in wild confrontations and mixed up with shady characters.  Meanwhile, Joe Morelli is on cousin Kenny's trail too, and he knows that using his seductive charms on Stephanie may give him the edge in apprehending Kenny first.  However, the enemy is a bit crazier than anyone anticipates, and all parties who cross his path are putting their lives in grave danger.  <br />Once again, Evanovich proves that she is a master of comical suspense.  Jersey born and bred myself, I can say that her accurate portrayal of life in the garden state will leave you in stitches.  The writing is witty and the punchy dialogue is delivered with pure Jersey attitude.  I liked Evanovich's first book a tad better, but Two for the Dough was a close second.  If you want an amusing, explosive read, look no further!	2000-11-23
US	49379586	RMAK75OPQ3DEJ	0553277405	280332330	Night Probe!	Books	5	57	59	N	N	A High Stakes Rocketing Ride!	1914:  United States undersecretary of state, Richard Essex, is traveling on the Manhattan Limited Train.  With him is one of three copies of the North American Treaty.  A document few government officials know about which will have an insurmountable effect on the future of the United States, Canada, and Great Britain.  Meanwhile, on the very same evening and halfway across the world, Harvey Shields, deputy secretary of the British Foreign Office, carries a copy of the treaty with him while sailing on a ship called the Empress of Ireland.  Coincidentally, the train carrying Richard Essex plunges through a gap in a bridge and sinks in the Hudson River, and the ship with Harvey Shields aboard collides with a coal collier and sinks in the St. Lawrence River.  Neither man's corpse is recovered and the two copies of the treaty are gone with them.  Canada's prime minister has the third copy, but since the treaty is not favorable to the Canadian's he destroys it.  The matter is laid to rest.  The North American Treaty is never to be.  Those few officials who know of the pact keep their silence and the world never knows how close we came to rewriting history.<br />1989:  U.S. naval commander, Heidi Milligan, is writing a thesis when she comes across a letter written by Woodrow Wilson referring to the North American Treaty.  Curious, she probes into the matter and discovers that even the most expert historians have no knowledge of any North American Treaty.  When the word leaks out about Heidi's investigation, the U.S. and Great Britain do some detective work of their own and are stunned to learn that the treaty was indeed real.  If a copy could be found, it would be valid even after seventy-five years.  The United States would profit greatly from it but Great Britain would lose.<br />Could an intact copy of the treaty be found underwater after all these years?  Call in Dirk Pitt, director of special projects for the National Underwater Marine Agency.  Dirk and his men takeon the task of attempting to recover the treaty for the U.S. despite the remote probability of finding it.  Great Britain, on the other hand, wants to find it first so they can destroy it, rendering it useless to the U.S.  Brian Shaw, a retired top-notch spy is hired to lead the British crew on their search.  The race begins!<br />Cussler has put together a superb tale of mystery, espionage, history, and adventure.  The action is non-stop as Dirk and his men battle it out underwater, on the ground, and in the air with British enemies.  Expect lots of nail-biting tension as the plot twists and turns at an unrelenting pace.  The surprise outcome will leave you breathless, shocked, and undoubtedly running back to the bookstore to purchase your next Dirk Pitt adventure.	2000-11-10
US	49379586	R5HDE5MQS3ZZN	0345434471	487267340	L. A. Requiem (Elvis Cole)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Suspenseful and Excruciatingly Tense	Elvis and Joe are at it again.  But this time the case hits close to home.  Joe's former girlfriend, Karen Garcia, is found murdered.  Karen's father, a prominent L.A. businessman, hires Elvis and Joe to supervise the LAPD's investigation, as he has little faith in the police.  But the LAPD does not take kindly to the two private investigators interfering with their job.  They want Elvis and Joe out of the picture and will do anything to remove them from the case.  Meanwhile, a string of other murders eerily similar to Karen Garcia's are taking place.  When the police finally name and apprehend their suspect, Elvis and Joe's personal and professional lives are turned upside down.  The most unlikely person to commit murder is the prime suspect and the evidence mounts daily to confirm that the party is guilty.  As their friendship strains, Elvis and Joe must undertake their most complicated search for the truth.  Even if it means facing some inner demons that they did not know existed.	2000-10-31
US	49379586	R1CRCSC89N0COI	0451525116	530114217	Selected Stories (A Signet Classic)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Chekhov in Top Form	Chekhov may have been from a different culture and era, however, his legacy still leaves an impact on millions of readers and writers worldwide.  No storyteller thus far, has been able to blend humor and tragedy in the fashion that made Chekhov so universally loved.  Selected Stories is a sampling of some of his finest works.  With compassion and delicacy, Chekhov writes of the lives of ordinary people who are struggling to overcome conflict, however trivial their problems may be.  One story deals with a man who must teach his young son not to smoke even though he himself is a smoker.  Another story describes how a middle-aged man is thought peculiar by family and friends because he has never married.  These are just a few examples of how this century-old Russian literature is still relevant to today's frame of mind.  Chekhov's talent cannot be overstated.  His life was short but what he left behind was majestic and grand.	2000-10-29
US	49379586	R2OSUX21QB4BS2	0061009059	830758196	One for the Money (Stephanie Plum, No. 1) (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Lives Up to the Hype!	I finally gave in to the hype, and started reading this series to see what all the fuss was about.  I'm sure glad I did because One for the Money was one of the most enjoyable, laugh-out-loud, and fun books I've ever encountered.  Stephanie Plum, the lead character and narrator of the story is a 30-year-old woman who knows a lot about hairspray and fingernail polish but little about the dangerous world of criminals.  So how does she land a job as a bounty hunter?  After getting laid off as a lingerie buyer, Stephanie finds her rent is overdue, her car is repossessed, and her refrigerator is empty.  Perhaps cousin Vinnie has some clerical work for her at his bounty hunter business, her mother suggests.  But when Stephanie finds out how much money she can make tracking down deadbeat thugs, she bribes her cousin into giving her a job skip tracing and embarks on her new career.<br />Stephanie chooses to take on the hottest case in Trenton N.J.  Find Joe Morelli, a cop accused of murder one.  The problem is, Joe is no stranger to Stephanie.  They've known each other since childhood and had some steamy moments together as teens.  Joe knows how to push Stephanie's buttons, and as much as she hates to admit it, she finds him irresistible.<br />The plot pounds along as you follow Stephanie through her ill-fated efforts to capture her man.  There are plenty of screwball characters that cross  Stephanie's path, and the story is full of offbeat comedy, hilarious one-liners, and sexual energy.  As a Jersey born and bred woman myself, I can attest to the fact that Evanovich captures the Jersey essence and attitude brilliantly.  If you like snappy dialogue, quick-wit, and non-stop action you won't be disappointed.  Don't miss this one!	2000-10-20
US	49379586	R3UHCIKH6XEEJX	0140253602	226975137	Felicia's Journey: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Chilling Portrait of a Deranged Psyche	William Trevor's true genius lies within the short story, however, in Felicia's Journey he proves the versatility of his skills.  Barely eighteen, the young Irish girl named Felicia discovers she is pregnant after a summer romance with Johnny, a young man from England.  Johnny returns to England not knowing of Felicia's condition, and he fails to leave her a way to contact him when he goes.  To Johnny the romance with Felicia was a fling, but to Felicia it was real love.  Shunned by her family and distraught over how to handle the pregnancy, Felicia takes off to England alone in search of Johnny hoping that he will help her.  Lost, frightened, and without money in England, Felicia is befriended by Mr. Hilditch, an overweight man in his fifties who offers to help her.  The naive Felicia makes an unknowingly grave mistake by trusting Mr. Hilditch.  Although he seems gentle and genuinely concerned, Mr. Hilditch is really a man suffering from psychosis who sees Felicia in a disturbing light.<br />The events that unfold as the &quot;friendship&quot; develops are chilling.  Trevor, a master at displaying human behavior, does a fine job at taking the reader into the delusional mind of Mr. Hilditch.  Felicia's vulnerabilities and blinded trust will make you want to shake some sense into her.  The story provides plenty of twists and a surprising end.  Once again, Trevor's rhythmic prose will move you, but this time in a dark and shocking manner.	2000-10-14
US	49379586	R8EOHLZ2C81YA	0679723056	515602185	What We Talk About When We Talk About Love: Stories	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Poignant and Realistic Look at Life	This books title is apt not only for the story it is named for, but for the collection as a whole.  Carver's world is one of broken dreams, harsh realities, and misplaced desires.  His stories center on ordinary working class Americans and what goes on behind their closed doors.  He deals with topics such as divorce, domestic abuse, infidelity, and alcoholism.  Grim as that may sound, these provocative stories leave the reader to conclude that what may seem like an end, is really the start of a new beginning.  In other words, these people are ridding themselves of their baggage.  Bottled up feelings and frustrations are exposed for the first time.  Carver sticks to the basic premise that the biggest problem in relationships today is the inability to communicate effectively.  He demonstrates this among his characters, while accurately portraying male and female points of view.  Carver's words are not poetic or beautiful.  He doesn't use extensive vocabulary.  He keeps it simple.  Although you won't get the lyricism of Chekhov or Maupassant here, what you will get is something that is likely to be personally meaningful and uplifting in a rare sort of way.	2000-10-09
US	49379586	R3BPEIE2O92X3Q	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Exemplifies the Rise and Fall of the American Dream	This masterpiece take place in the 1920's in New York's West Egg Village, a suburb of New York City.  The narrator of the story is Nick Carraway, a young man quietly carving out a living selling bonds and securities.  Nick moves into a meager house located next door to the great Gatsby mansion.  Nick is in awe of the fabulous Gatsby home.  Lavish parties are the norm there, with prominent guests coming and going, and music and laughter filling the Long Island air.  Jay Gatsby, however, is a mystery to Nick.<br />Soon Nick receives an invitation from Gatsby himself to attend one of his parties.  People are filled with uncertainty about Jay Gatsby.  How did he become so wealthy?  Where was he from?  Who was he?  Gossip stirred and rumors abounded.<br />Although they were not from the same social circle, Jay Gatsby took an immediate liking to Nick Carraway and befriended him.  But he had other motives too.  Nick was cousin to the beautiful married Daisy Buchanan, a woman who Gatsby once loved and lost.  Through Nick, Gatsby desperately tries to rekindle the romance with Daisy.  At one point Nick tells Gatsby that the past cannot be repeated.  Gatsby's reply is, &quot;Can't repeat the past?  Why of course you can!&quot;<br />The characters in this book (with the exception of Nick) all share one common thread.  They are striving for more of everything...love, success, money, notoriety, and a sense of self-worth.  Yet they chase after their ambitions blindly.  Feelings are hurt, friendships are destroyed, and tragic events unfold.  What they thought would bring happiness only brings sorrow.<br />Fitzgerald's insight into social interactions is profound.  Through the voice and eyes of Nick, he helps the reader empathize with even the most loathsome characters.  The prose is beautiful and oftentimes heartwrenching.  Even after 75 years, the keen observations made by Fitzgerald (Nick) about people and society ring true today.  History changes, but the human condition holds steadfast.  Unforgettable...teadfast.  Unforgettable...	2000-10-02
US	49379586	R3U88PO4Q7I003	0786889446	335827639	Where Serpents Lie	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Lunatic is on the Loose!	A psychopath is kidnapping young girls in Orange County California, dressing them up as angels with hoods over their heads, and then releasing them into the woods a few hours later.  Although the first several girls have been found unharmed, investigators fear that the crimes will escalate into rape and murder.<br />Terry Naughton, chief of the Crimes Against Youth unit, is assigned to the case.  Terry is a 40-year-old divorced investigator, whose son died under unusual circumstances just two years prior to the case.  Terry is very passionate about protecting children and is determined to capture the madman responsible for the kidnappings.  The suspect becomes known as, The Horridus, because of his infatuation with snakes.  The Horridus taunts Terry over the Internet, and manages to stay one step ahead of the police by covering up his tracks.  Meanwhile, Terry's personal life is crumbling around him while he is trying to solve the case.  He experiences alcoholic blackouts, as he is depressed and drinking heavily over the death of his son.  He is living with a woman whom he does not love, and is having an affair with a woman who he does love.  To top it off, he is framed with phony photographs depicting him as having sex with a child.  He gets charged with child molestation, is thrown off the force, and is facing conviction.  Now he must clear his name and find the person who did this to him, and try to put a stop to the Horridus before it is too late and a child is raped or killed.<br />I found the character of Terry to be a bit dry.  His personality was dull and I could not find myself empathizing with him despite his troubles.  The Horridus, while not original, was a well-written character.  The Horridus had a huge collection of dangerous snakes and at times believed he was a snake himself.  His disorganized thought processes and odd manner accurately described someone suffering from delusions.  Where Serpents Lie was not particularly outstanding or unique but iswas a good read nonetheless.	2000-09-24
US	49379586	RN2O34V2VSMBL	0786862610	672395112	Indigo Slam: An Elvis Cole Novel (Elvis Cole Novels)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A Quick Entertaining Read	Fifteen-year-old Teri Hewitt and her twelve-year-old brother and nine-year-old sister show up one day at the office of Elvis Cole (private investigator) to ask him to take their case.  Their father has disappeared days ago and the children are living by themselves with Teri playing the role of parent.  Elvis is reluctant to take the case, he would rather call child services....  But he agrees to look into it.  What he finds out about their father, Clark Hewitt, is more than he bargained for. .... Murders, shoot-outs, abductions, and even an exhilarating chase through Disneyland happen before this story concludes.<br />Crais is certainly not going to win any awards here.  He has a simple cookie cutter style of writing such as one who writes a made for TV movie script would have.  He attempts to use humor in his book, and while I credit him with the effort, I don't think he has a flair for comedy.  Despite the following observations, I did find the story to be entertaining.  I usually prefer classic literature, or modern day top-notch thriller authors.  However, it can be nice to have a break from heavy reading to pick up a simple easy-to-read in a day novel, which Indigo Slam is.  I understand that the writing of Crais has improved and many readers have recommended his newer novel L.A. Requiem.  I certainly am not going to rule out Crais on the basis of reading this book alone.	2000-09-10
US	49379586	R22WPVAGO8X1K2	0140258345	710780287	After Rain: Stories	Books	5	19	19	N	N	An Extraordinary Collection of Short Stories	There is little doubt that Trevor is a master of his craft and perhaps the  greatest living short story writer in the world today.  After Rain, a  volume of twelve stories, explores such subjects as infidelity,  homosexuality, religious conflicts, and violence.  What makes these stories  so powerful, however, is not the subjects they deal with, but the portrayal  of the characters thoughts, emotions, and responses.  Trevor is able to  examine such human conditions as jealousy, rage, sadness, regret, and hope  in a non-judgmental light that leaves the reader looking into oneself to  gain further insight.  His writing style is nothing short of remarkable.   He is eloquent and simplistic, never revealing more than he should, making  the unspoken a compelling component of his story.  If you have not yet read  Trevor, I urge you to wait no longer.  His literary grace will surely leave  a lasting impact on you as a reader and as a human being.	2000-09-07
US	49379586	R2QW4FBPMTMLTV	068484267X	698161422	Angela's Ashes: A Memoir	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Well-Deserved Pulitzer	McCourt speaks to the reader through his childhood voice in this splendid,  moving, and thought-provoking autobiography.  McCourt begins the story as a  four-year-old living in New York City with his parents and three younger  brothers.  The poverty stricken Irish family is unable to make ends meet in  America and so they head back to Ireland in hopes of survival.<br />They  settle in Limerick where McCourt's mother Angela grew up.  Malachy McCourt,  the father in the story, claims that he will find work and support the  family.  However, Malachy's love of alcohol prevents him from finding or  keeping any gainful employment.  When he does work, he takes his wages and  goes to the bars and drinks until all the money is gone.  Meanwhile, the  family is hungry, the children are wearing shoes with holes, and Angela  sinks into a deep depression but remains obedient to her husband because of  her Catholic faith.  The family moves around Limerick frequently, renting  dirty rooms with flea infested bedding, living on the floors in small  houses owned by relatives, and even renting a house in which the bottom  floor is constantly being flooded with neighborhood sewage.  The family  comes face to face with illness, death, starvation, and ridicule.  The low  point strikes when Angela must resort to begging on the streets to help her  family survive.<br />All the while, McCourt has the reader grow with him  through the ages of four to nineteen.  He shares the Irish tales he grew up  with, the feelings he had toward his dyfunctional parents, his opinion of  the Catholic Church, and the good and bad lessons he learned from his harsh  schoolmasters.  Never does McCourt wallow in self-pity, rather he presents  the facts of his life in an honest, poignant manner.  Despite the despair,  it seems that McCourt has no regrets about his upbringing, for he was a  child and had no control of the situation.  As he grew, however, he came to  the realization that he could begin to change things for the better.   Unlike his father, he became eager to work.  He struggled to support his  mother and younger siblings in his teen years with after school jobs.  He  educated himself through reading and observation.  He set goals and  priorities and didn't give up until he reached them.<br />McCourt takes what  is tragic and presents it in a beautiful, descriptive language that leaves  the reader spellbound.  His story is obviously written unselfishly and is  told to show that triumph can be the end result of tragedy.  Each  individual has the power to rise above and make his or her life meaningful.   This is the essence of McCourt's message.  A message you will not forget  after reading Angela's Ashes.	2000-09-04
US	49379586	RCAFEFJM49GSW	0380725789	538009039	The Death of an Irish Sea Wolf (A Peter McGarr Mystery)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Clever Tale of Greed, Betrayal, and Sacrifice	This intelligently written mystery takes place off the coast of Ireland on Clare Island.  The story centers on Clement Ford, a well-liked 80 year old  Sea Man.  Clem and his wife Breege live a modest lifestyle in their cottage  on the island.  They are personable and well respected by the remote  communities citizens, however, they hold a deep dark secret.<br />One night  after a violent storm, three people on the island turn up murdered and Clem  and Breege mysteriously disappear.  Detective Peter McGarr and his  colleagues are assigned to the case.  Police are baffled as to why anyone  would commit these murders and how they could be tied to the quiet elderly  Ford's.<br />Bartholomew Gill's story is unique in that you know who the  killers are right from the beginning.  However, the mystery lies in why did  they kill?  What do they want?  Will they strike again?<br />The prose in this  book is wonderfully descriptive.  You will smell the salty air, see the  rolling green hills, and watch the colorful Irish sunsets.  The characters  are refreshing and believable, and Gill provides the reader with accurate  historical facts about the land and its people.  This was my first  Bartholomew Gill book, but it certainly won't be my last. What a terrific  discovery!	2000-08-25
US	49379586	R3JTBAK9QWYIS0	0451193288	687284608	Reckless Endangerment	Books	2	5	5	N	N	Fair plot, but the writing is weak	Three young Arabs seriously wound a Jewish elderly shopkeeper and murder his wife.  Why?  Because they have been ordered to by Ibn-Salemeh, a  powerful Arabian megalomaniac.  The reason is to start a holy war in New  York City pitting the Jews against the Arabs, in what the Arabs hope will  make themselves into martyrs.  Deputy D.A. Butch Karp is assigned to the  case.  His job is to solve it, while keeping racial tensions from exploding  in the city.  More murders are to follow, all related to the Arabian cause.   Even Mexican drug lords get tied into the crime spree, as the Arabs do  much of their underground business with them to finance their holy war.   Sound exciting?  It could be, however, Tannebaum's lack of literary skills  sure puts a damper on what could have been a good book.<br />First of all,  Tannebaum introduces too many characters too soon in the story, and then he  neglects to develop those characters.  As you read, it becomes difficult to  remember who is who and what their role in the story is.  I found myself  frequently having to flip the pages backwards to refresh my memory of  people and events.  Also, there is no distinguishable characters in this  book.  Personalities are rather bland and the dialogue used is in monotone  voices.<br />As one reader pointed out, there are mistakes in the book that  don't correspond with the book's time frame of 1981.  The reader was  correct in those errors he pointed out.  Another one to add is that there  is a scene where two girls sit down and watch the video Purple Rain.  That  movie wasn't released in theatres until 1984.  While those mistakes may not  bother some readers, I think it is important to note the carelessness.   There are many areas in the story where Tannebaum goes into unnecessary  detail on things that are not relevant, while in other parts of the story  where clarification is needed, his writing lacks depth and the reader is  left in the dark as to what point the writer is trying to convey.<br />On a  positive note, there is a good action scene at the end of the book that  involves a huge car chase/shootout/bombing in downtown Brooklyn.  However,  it doesn't make up for the many dull pages that you must plow through to  get there.  If you are looking for a fast, easy, and fun thriller to read,  I'd suggest you look elswhere.	2000-08-05
US	49379586	R2ANVPEC5OUZBZ	0789719037	428039835	Upgrading and Repairing PCs	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A First Rate Reference Book	At first glance, one may think that this mammouth sized book is for power user's only.  Afterall, it goes into exhaustive detail on literally every aspect of the modern PC.  The book explains everything from basic  maintenance, to partitioning a hard drive, to upgrading your processor etc.   This new edition also gives extra SCSI coverage.  But don't let the size  and the technical jargon scare you away.  This book is actually for  everyone, from the novice computer user to the most advanced.   Surprisingly, Mueller is able to take what is very complex and explain it  with a clarity that any layman can understand.  Added is a full array of  diagramns and dialogue boxes with helpful hints and tips.<br />Most people  will never use all of the information that this book provides.   Nonetheless, whatever you are looking for, I guarantee you will find here.   Plus you will find it easily.  Mueller arranges the book so that it is easy  to bypass any unrelevant information and swiftly locate your particular  need.<br />It could be said that this book is to the personal computer what  Gray's Anatomy is to the human body.  It is a must for every PC owner!	2000-08-02
US	49379586	R2B935SS4P6TDD	0517122707	161411385	A Confederacy of Dunces	Books	5	10	13	N	N	If you enjoy the wacky people on Seinfeld...read this!	He's obnoxious...he's opinionated...he's dysfunctional...yet under it all he is brilliant.  Who is he?  He's Ignatius J. Reilly, the absurd modern day philosopher who's mission is to crusade for moorish dignity and to  teach the human race his worldview.<br />One evening in New Orleans, Ignatius  and his dim-witted mother go to the Night of Joy Bar for a few drinks.  On  the way home, with Ignatius riding in the back seat of their 1946 Plymouth  and a tipsy Mrs. Reilly behind the wheel, they crash into a building  leaving it damaged and the owner furious.  Mrs. Reilly is liable for  payments yet has no money.  The solution?  She demands that her over-weight  unemployed 30 year old son Ignatius, who has never held down a job get one.   Reluctantly, Ignatius hits the streets of New Orleans in search of  employment.  When he gets his first job working in the office of Levy Pants  Factory he describes himeself in his journal as a pacifist working  boy.<br />When chaos strikes around every corner, you know Ignatius is there.   First he gathers all the factory workers at Levy Pants to stage a protest  against poor working conditions.  Things get out of hand, a short-lived  riot ensues and Ignatius's big plan backfires.  He gets fired from his job  and is then forced to make a living as a hot dog vendor.  His mother  becomes very distraught that her beloved son must stoop to, &quot;selling  weenies.&quot;  One mishap after another happens as the new weenie man  comes into contact with the vivid characters that rome the french quarter  of the city.<br />I admit, I was a bit skeptical when I first picked up this  book.  It took a few chapters before I really got absorbed but then...WHOA!   The wild storyline took off like an F-14 Tomcat cruising down the runway  for a takeoff.  What really makes this novel so original and comical is its  colorful array of characters.  There is Miss Trixie, the senile secretary  for Levy Pants who refers to Ignatius as Gloria.  There's Mrs. Levy, whom  believes she is the next Sigmund Freud because she took a correspondence  course in psychology.  Also there is policeman Mansuco, a rookie cop who is  assigned to work undercover in the streets of the city wearing outrageous  costumes.  Let's not forget Myrna Minkoff, Ignatius's female friend from  college who now resides in New York City and corresponds regularly with  him.  Myrna is a sex-crazed hippy who is given to anti-government protests  and whose ultimate goal is to see Ignatius lose his virginity.  The list of  lively people that cross Ignatius's path is too ample to state.  Ignatius  even befriends a homosexual man and unknowingly finds himself at a gay  party that he thinks has been organized as a new political movement to  spread his philosophical cause.  All in all, this bustling novel is  definitely worth a read.  Fasten your seat belt and get ready to be taken  on a frenzied journey!	2000-07-26
US	49379586	RVOIF1YGVDUWQ	0789719037	428039835	Upgrading and Repairing PCs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A First Rate Reference Book	Scott Mueller certainly knows his stuff.  At first glance, you might think that this mammouth sized book is only for power user's.  Afterall, Mueller goes into exhaustive detail on literally every aspect of the modern PC and  how it functions.  However, the author writes with such clarity and  simplicity that even the most novice user should be able to decipher the  meaning of his explanations.  The book is full of terrific diagrams, and  special tips and cautionary notes.  He teaches everything from basic  computer maintenance to partitioning hard drives, to choosing the correct  power-protection system, etc.  This edition also gives extra attention to  the SCSI. <br />Chances are you you won't ever use all the wealth of  information that is provided in the book.  But I guarantee, whatever you  are looking for you will find.  Surprisingly, you will find it easily too!   Mueller arranges the book so that it is easy to weed through what is  unnecessary for you and get right to what is relevant.<br />This book is to  the PC what Gray's Anatomy is to the human body.  It is a must for every PC  owner.	2000-07-23
US	49379586	R19Y6GN1SF6ZCO	0451162919	887611900	Garden of Lies	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Good....but flawed	Initially this book is very intriguing.  It exams the lives of of two women who were switched at birth and grew up under very different circumstances.  Rachel is raised by a wealthy family and has all the  advantages that go with it.  Rose, on the other hand, grows up in poverty  and experiences endless tragedy.  When they reach adulthood their lives  begin to merge.  Twists of fate gradually bring them to a confrontation.   Despite their opposite backgrounds, these two women are uncanningly  similiar in personality traits and ambitions.  This book does a fine job at  examing the nature vs. nuture issue.  Miss Goudge's writing style flows  nicely and she is able to accurately portray her characters emotions and  thoughts with depth.  The downfall of this book, however, is that is  becomes too predictable.  Halfway through the book you know what is going  to happen chapter by chapter.  Their is no element of surprise.  What could  have been made into an exciting conclusion, comes to an abrupt and dull  end.  An otherwise good novel, but by no means perfection.	2000-07-22
US	49379586	R2FBLQ9ZOWRHO1	0425138232	930176831	Eye of the Storm (Sean Dillon)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Move over James Bond....Here comes Sean Dillion!	Higgins delivers in this whirlwind action-packed thriller.  Former IRA enforcer Sean Dillon is about to demolish the whole British War Cabinet. Things don't go as planned, and Dillon is left to make a most daring  escape.  The charming, witty, bad boy that you can't help but to adore,  Sean Dillon, doesn't fret. He performs best under pressure.  Each chapter  ends with a cliffhanger that will keep you turning the pages.  The pace is  swift, the twisting plot is believable, and the ending is a slam dunk!	2000-07-16
US	49379586	R2GJRTOVHUWM4C	0192826662	989631244	The Oxford Book of English Ghost Stories	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Ghoulishly Good!	This superb book of classic ghost stories will literally make the hair rise on your arms.  These tales are written by some of the world's best literary geniuses (Sir Walter Scott to name one).  If you enjoy being  spooked without the blood and gore of today's B rated horror book writers,  you're guaranteed to love this classic collection!	2000-07-02
US	49379586	R2VROWO0VC3OJF	0553263153	150393116	Bobby Fischer Teaches Chess	Books	3	9	14	N	N	A decent endgame book	Don't expect this book to make you play like Fischer.  I'm not saying that it is a bad book...I am just saying that Bobby doesn't actually teach the game of chess in this book.  Rather he teaches only specific moves of the  endgame, namely checkmates.  It is a fine book for learning and/or  practicing your mating moves.  I enjoyed the simple format in which there  is a problem on each page that asks the reader to just draw a line on the  chessboard or check off yes and no answers.  It's not necessary to write  out any algebraic notations in this book.  However, if you are looking for  a good book to grasp the game of chess as a whole, this is not the right  book for you.  Instead, I would recommend The Complete Idiot's Guide to  Chess and Irving Chernev's Logical Chess Move by Move.  Nevertheless, this  book is suitable to add to your chess library, just don't make it your only  resource.	2000-06-28
US	49379586	R3O0KV6BI9J8TR	0062720740	655689255	The New Rules of Money: 88 Simple Strategies for Financial Success Today	Books	1	101	111	N	N	Title should be 88 simple strategies for finanacial FAILURE	I bought this book because the hard back version was on the clearance shelf of my local bookstore for only $3.99.  After reading it, I discovered why the book was so cheap.  It appears that Edelman did not write this book  because he cares about consumers/investors, he wrote it for the sole  purpose of filling his own pockets with extra change.  Mr. Edelman's  inability to get his facts straight is blatantly visible throughout the  book.  For example, Edelman states that the Vanguard 500 Index fund did not  exist 10 years prior to the publication of his book (published in 1998).   But as a Vanguard investor I can tell you that the inception of the 500  Index fund was on August 31, 1976.  He also tells readers to avoid  inflation-indexed bonds, claiming that people only buy them hoping that  inflation will rise so their bond values will jump.  This is nonsense  (please don't insult my intelligence Ric).  People purchase these bonds as  a small conservative part of their portfolio to provide protection against  the investments (equities, high-yield bonds, etc.) that decrease in value  during times of inflation.  Lastly, Edelman completely trashes the Roth  IRA.  Although the type of IRA that one chooses depends on many factors  such as age, income, tax bracket, and expected age of retirement, the Roth  IRA is a wonderful choice for many (if not most) young investors.  No taxes  on accumlated earnings is usually more beneficial than no taxes on  contributions (you can figure out the math for your own situation using an  IRA calculator).   Edelman distorts the facts in order to scare people and  sell his book (shock grabs attention and sells a product).  There are many  other examples throughout his book of half-truths and misrepresentations,  but since I am limited to 1,000 words here I cannot name them all.  In  conclusion, I must say that I do pity the novice investor who chooses this  as an introduction to the financial world and heeds Edelman's advice as  golden.	2000-06-17
US	49379586	R2UZZIQLSEM1G0	0061012513	317368412	Storming Heaven	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Mills is a writer who shows promise	Compelling thriller which takes us into the mysterious world of cults and the good and evil forces that underlie their success.  FBI agent Mark Beamon is not your typical action book hero.  He's an overweight, beer  drinking, unlucky in love man who happens to be an extraordinary  investigator with an unselfish drive to solve crimes and seek justice.  His  no-nonsense ways and refusal to play by the rules causes him to catch a lot  of heat from his superiors.  However, Beamon realizes that he is racing the  clock to find a missing teenager girl whose parents were brutally executed  and who may be facing the same fate herself.  With little to gain and much  to lose, Beamon takes off on a hunt  that leaves the bodies piling up and  his own life hanging by a thread.	2000-06-13
US	49379586	R2LZZXNWABI7FD	1572319402	192098644	Microsoft Word 2000 at a Glance	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Ultimate Quick Reference	Whether you are a beginner or an advanced user of Word 2000, you'll probably find yourself needing to get some quick &quot;how to&quot; information on occasion to complete your task.  If so, this is the perfect  reference book for you.  Thorough yet concise, this book covers all of the  most frequently used features in Word from the most basic tasks such as  saving files to more advanced tasks such as recording macros and adding web  elements.  This book provides instruction in a straightforward step by step  format without the unnecessary verbosity you are likely to find in many  other references.  This easy to understand book with wonderful visuals will  make using the powerful Word 2000 simple and frustration free.  I highly  recommend it.	2000-06-11
US	49379586	R2245Q69ACH0RC	0553276867	911447080	Sackett's Land: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Best of the Sackett Novels	This novel which introduced us to the intriguing saga of the Sackett family is by far the best of the series.  Set in 17th century England and America, this book creates vivid images of life during a time when freedom  was not a given right, but something you had to fight for.  The courageous  Barnabas Sackett flees to America to start a new life with nothing but the  clothes on his back and a deep sense of pride.  Struggling to survive in  the wild untamed land of what is now the USA, Barnabas finds himself faced  with escaping from vicious pirates, battling the elements of the weather,  and often times being the first white man to come face to face with the  American Indians of the region.  L'Amour does a fine job at telling this  adventurous tale which will keep you flipping the pages from start to  finish.	2000-06-11
