US	49389184	R1UEOWNY0Z8JF	1573222348	622945505	Drinking Coffee Elsewhere	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A new voice in LITERATURE!	I had previously read a few of ZZ Packer's stories in lit magazines such as ZOETROPE and The New Yorker and I have been anxiously awaiting this collection. I have not been disappointed.<br />\\"Drinking Coffee Elsewhere\\" is a collection of unique, startling and at times, brutally truthful stories by Packer, a new author. All these stories, in some way, touch upon themes of alienation, the search for truth (whatever that truth is for the characters), of approval, and of identity. Stories range from the title piece, \\"Drinking Coffee Elsewhere,\\" about a young black woman who enters a ivy league university and must struggle not only with alienation and her identity but the death of her mother, to \\"Geese,\\" a story about a sister who travels to Tokyo to make loads of money only to find herself destitute and in the company of people just as down and out as she is.<br />What I enjoy the most about these eight stories is that Packer tells stories about black people, but she does so multiculturally, or \\"realistically\\". The world isn't full of just black people or just white people. The worlds in Packer's stories travel the globe from Baltimore, to Yale University, to Tokyo. We see a vast array of people and places and situations, and Packer is not afraid to show us all these facets, nor is she afraid to show us the bleakness of reality. Her stories do not end with cotton candy and happily ever afters. Sometimes, life is hard, and Packer portrays these times exquisitely.<br />Anyone who is interested in reading well written stories about the facets of black life, will no doubt enjoy ZZ Packer's debut collection as much as I have.<br />Shon Bacon	2003-06-07
US	49389184	R3NVM5G43QT1Y2	0767907809	834442453	Bookends: A Novel	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A dramatic, comedic, and real look at friendship + love!	I'm a sucker for a romantic comedy, and after Bridget Jones's Diary, I became eager to read more books in that genre.  When I picked up Bookends by Jane Green, I was looking for a light, fun read, but what I received was a novel that would not let me put it down.  Bookends is hilarious, witty, and full of tension and drama, and characters that you will love...and some you might not like all that well.<br />In Bookends, the reader is introduced - by way of narrator, Catherine \\"Cath\\" Warner - to a group of friends who meet in school and though individually different as night and day, they become a tight clique of trusted friends.  That is, until the ever-beautiful Portia - the friend thought to be the sun in the clique's universe - destroys friendships that were meant to last forever.<br />Fast forward ten years where we find Cath and lifelong friends, Josh and Lisa, and her best friend, Si, living and loving in their early-thirties, in London.  Si, the sweet, adorable, and gay love of Cath's life spends most of his time in friendly counsel with Cath regarding the lack of men in their lives, and discussing how each deals with that situation in their own way, whether it's Cath's refusal to believe she wants a man in her life, or Si's ability to lower his standards, for fear of living alone.<br />Just as everyone's life seems to be on track, a blast from the past in the form of an older and more self-indulgent Portia, pops back into the group's tight circle and in an instant, lives are shook up, adulterous innuendoes are cooked up and friendships are tested.<br />I have to say, this book is a wonderful read.  I fell in love with the main character, Cath, and her feelings on friendship and love.  Green does a great job in creating characters that you want to care about, characters that you can feel and even relate to.  I think readers will be thoroughly and happily surprised that there is more to this book than pure entertainment.  I finished this book with tears in my eyes because I felt a connection with Green's characters and I felt moved by the way Green deals with some heavy subjects in this novel.<br />I would definitely recommend Bookends - love the title - to those who want a fast read with a lot of bite and wit.<br />Shon Baconyes because I felt a connection with Green's characters and I felt moved by the way Green deals with some heavy subjects in this novel.<br />I would definitely recommend Bookends - love the title - to those who want a fast read with a lot of bite and wit.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-08-11
US	49389184	RACGDDCNJ4LGI	0140273891	824260972	The Hotel Eden	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Collection of stories that will entertain and move you	I found myself very entertained by Carlson's collection of stories, Hotel Eden.  A lot of people insisted that I check out his work, and I'm so glad I did.  What I found in Hotel Eden was a collection of stories with characters from every walk of life.  They were so different, yet so real that I found it hard to believe they lived only on the page and in my mind.<br />Any reader of Hotel Eden will appreciate Carlson's tight and poetic writing that has the ability to snatch you into - at times - bizarre storylines, like the story Zanduce at Second, about a baseball player who has killed 11 spectators with his stinging foul shot and finds an almost blood thirsty thrill in regaining his former playing prowess.<br />In a collection, I would expect to find a few great stories, but in Hotel Eden, I found 12 wonderful stories filled with intriguing characters, fascinating plotlines and a mixture of humor and reality (a sometime sobering thing).<br />I would definitely recommend Hotel Eden to those interested in reading great literature that is ENTERTAINING.	2002-07-13
US	49389184	RJH27H7UP7171	0670030724	339486410	Emporium: Stories	Books	5	4	7	N	N	An eclectic array of stories that reveal the human condition	A 15-year-old sniper who falls in love.  A family who owns a bulletproof vest shop in a desolate \\"America.\\"  The awakening of a boy who drives a bus of female cancer patients.  Canadians trying to reach the moon before the Russians.  What do these scenarios have to do with each other?  To the naked eye, nothing much, but when one steps into the worlds created by author, Adam Johnson in his short story collection, Emporium, the reader will see that the human experience, the good, the bad, and the ugly, runs rampant in this beautifully written collection.<br />Emporium is a collection of ten short stories by Johnson, and each story will pull the reader into a surreal world that at first will leave the reader dizzy with tight tension, vivid characters and plot lines that have never been written about before.  However, what makes these stories so real and so touching and poignant is that each, despite its wild premise, falls back to the foundation of the human condition.  Each story deals with some aspect of the human condition, such as love, yearning, death, loneliness, and belonging, that has the ability to connect the reader to the characters.  In essence, pulls them into the story.  There isn't a story in this collection that can't touch an emotion in each person that reads it.<br />As an aspiring novelist, I learned a great deal about how to write tight fiction that speaks in volumes.<br />Adam Johnson is a writer that will definitely go places, in my opinion, and I look forward to reading future works by him.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-19
US	49389184	R11IV0DY2WYQJ	0439194458	839010052	St. Michael's Scales	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Strong debut novel for ALL ages!	Neil Connelly's debut novel, St. Michael's Scales has the ability to touch a part of every person who knows what it feels like to be the unpopular kid in high school and to feel like such an outsider, you resort to thinking dangerous scenarios.  I think all readers can relate to the main character of this moving novel's main character, Keegan Flannery.<br />Keegan is 15, two years older than everybody in his class at Our Lady of Perpetual Help high school, yet he's smaller than everyone too.  His size makes it easy for him to disappear from the real world and live in his mind, where he feels discarded from his deteriorating family.  He feels he is the cause of his twin's death (in the womb at that).  He thinks he's responsible for his mother's breakdown and his family's subsequent breakdown.<br />Due to his spiraling depression and feelings of inadequacy, Keegan plots to kill himself before his 16th birthday which is 14 days away.  In his two-week countdown, Keegan befriends the unlikeliest of people, Perpetual Help's wrestling team.  Through his interaction with the colorful and strange students and teachers of P.H., Keegan has to make the choice to either realize that his life is worth living or continue on his path to destruction.<br />St. Michael's Scales is a warm, poignant novel that touches the heart and the mind and makes the reader think.  It's not just a novel for young adults.  It's a novel for parents of young adults, and point blank, it's a novel for PEOPLE because we have all had moments of inadequacy, and most of us have faced the scary situation of \\"is my life meaningful?\\"<br />I look forward to reading more of Connelly's work.<br />Shon Bacon	2002-06-02
US	49389184	R2WDHLT7XWBPLU	0595161588	683911620	Jamerican Connection	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice Debut Novel!!!	Jamerican Connection, Sandra Ottey's debut novel, tells the stories of three women whose lives are intertwined by friendship, relationships, lies, infidelity, abuse, and a host of other dramas.<br />Rose Thorn dreamt of a life that included a college education and a successful career, but dropping out of high school to have a baby dashed those dreams. Now, Rose finds herself trapped in an abusive marriage with no way out...though more and more she vows to find one.<br />Laverne Fine is a cosmetologist and Rose's best friend. Her two main goals are to one, get a visa so that she may travel abroad and perhaps reap in the opportunities to blossom in her career; and two, to uncover the truth surrounding her lover's identity and nationality.<br />Wendy Arnold is beyond successful in her career. She has the degrees, the accolades and the prestige, but as she reaches the big 4-0, she finds herself panicking, wanting desperately to persuade her long-distance love, Miles to move from Jamaica to Brooklyn in order to live together, get married, and have children.<br />Jamerican Connection is a very interesting read. I enjoyed being immersed in both the American and Jamaican cultures. I quickly flipped through the novel to find out how Rose's intriguing story would go. As you read the novel, you will find yourself rooting for the women, who all have their own distinct voices. You will hate Rose's husband, and probably have disgust for most of the men IN the book, because you get the sense that they have no respect for women as they cheat and some even get the brass ring at the end after all of their cheating and lies.<br />Regardless of that, the novel is a fast-paced story that will pull the reader in to the web of drama that unfolds.	2001-09-15
US	49389184	R3BF91B0VNFGH7	0967460123	233782726	Shame on It All Publisher: Strebor Books	Books	5	34	34	N	N	A Rip-Roaring Hilarious...AND Scandalous, MUST-READ Novel!	I betcha my Memorial Day weekend was freakier than yours!  Well, if you're in a conversation with the Whitfield sisters, be prepared to lose that bet!<br />Shame On It All (SOIA) introduces us to the wildly eclectic Whitfield sisters:  Harmony, the eldest, owner of a temporary agency AND a big secret; Bryce, the middle child, outspoken, boisterous and a LOVER of men; and Lucky, the baby girl of the fam, who is in the midst of medical school AND a controversy.<br />The reader is immediately thrust (no pun intended) into the  sexual escapades of the sisters as they share their Memorial Day  exploits with one another over lunch...exploits that will ultimately change each sister's life forever.  The novel encompasses all that one would expect to find in that wonderful  relationship between sisters -- love, spite, crazy conversations, humor, and enough drama for you AND your mama.<br />SOIA is THE funniest novel I have ever read.  Zane kicks some  serious butt in her snappy dialogue and comical exchanges between the characters...and the inclusion of commercials throughout the novel is innovative and perfect for the novel.<br />SOIA is full of comedy, realism and drama, and is definitely a  novel you won't want to put down until you're DONE.  Zane's  characters are so real, so three-dimensional, I felt as if I was  rolling my neck and smacking my lips along with the sistah girls.<br />On the lighter side, SOIA is packed with crazy sexual exchanges  and comedy, but it is firmly grounded with a tight drama full  plot line that will toy with your emotions.<br />Anyone who has read Zane's previous novels will most definitely  seek out SOIA...and to all the Zane newbies, this is a great treat to begin with.	2001-07-05
US	49389184	R1V10P7FGKLW1V	031227498X	970729217	Sex and the Single Sister: Five Novellas	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Sisters You Definitely Want to Check Out!	Maryann Reid's first novel, \\"Sex & The Single Sister\\" (STSS) has been compared to Candace Bushnell's bestseller, \\"Sex & The City.\\"  Just about every group I belong to has brought the title up in some setting, and as a single sister, I knew I had to read Ms. Reid's book to see if I could find just a little bit of myself within the pages.<br />STSS is a compilation of five short stories about five single and upwardly mobile sisters and their experiences with men, dating, and sex.  STSS brings us:<br />--FARAH, a 24-year-old sister from Brooklyn, who considers herself a free spirit, who is looking, but enjoying while she looks.  She finds herself catching feelings in a situation that involves a man who is already \\"committed\\".<br />--ALAYA, a 26-year-old from San Francisco whose major asset is her voluptuous body.  She has problems with letting men in, and when she finds someone she could learn to love, she questions herself...and him.<br />--KENYA, a 29-year-old from Miami is suffering from the \\"can't find a man\\" blues.  She meets a sexy Hispanic man and falls into a relationship with him...but all ain't perfect, when she begins to wonder what else is out there, and find herself checking out other prospects.<br />--ALEXIS, a 25-year-old from Atlanta who has just gotten out of a long relationship and has the urge to explore her \\"other\\" side.<br />--WACEERA, a 23-year-old from Chicago is attached, but is still checking out the scene looking for the best man.<br />Reid's style is very light and entertaining.  She gives the reader five distinct scenarios that I'm sure women (black and white and others) may have found themselves in...even though they might deny it!<br />The stories are fast-paced as you get caught up in the characters' dramas of career and men.  Reid has a way of bringing the reader directly into the scenes of each story, and I found myself shaking me head, laughing or cussing out the girls for their antics.  One thing I will say, the word SEX in the title ain't just there for show!  This book gets down sexually speaking  and delivers some wickedly sexual scenes...but all done within the context of the stories...not just for the purpose of having sex in a story.<br />I think all women, especially those who have lived through the decade of the 20s or who are living it now, will find something entertaining and fun to read with Sex & The Single Sister.ain't just there for show!  This book gets down sexually speaking  and delivers some wickedly sexual scenes...but all done within the context of the stories...not just for the purpose of having sex in a story.<br />I think all women, especially those who have lived through the decade of the 20s or who are living it now, will find something entertaining and fun to read with Sex & The Single Sister.	2001-05-31
US	49389184	R3IJCUDDA2W211	0970499523	364274849	Real for Me	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Real For Me is a REAL treat!!!	Glover should be on cloud nine.  She's beautiful, intelligent, has great friends, and is engaged to a sexy, successful brother that tends to her needs but she feels empty, and wonders if her relationship is just following logical steps...and not the steps that her heart feels need to be made.  When she meets Maxwell, a brother new to California, who is looking for something better in his life, Glover finds herself confused all the more as she is forced to look into herself to see what she truly wants, what will make her happy.<br />Real for Me is a great debut novel by Eric Pete.  I read the book in one sitting, and found myself totally engaged with the characters and wrapped up in the plotline.  The dialogue was real and sharp, and Pete did a great job in fleshing out the main characters and giving them individual voices and quirks.  I really enjoyed this novel and especially the characters (Glover's best friends are a treat), and would definitely recommend this novel.....	2001-05-25
US	49389184	R383GRUEG255DW	0671040839	288426258	The Living Blood	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Awesome Book Sequel!!!	First off, I have to say, I have not and probably will not read a book this year that is as gripping and thick and suspenseful  and deep as Tananarive Due's sequel to &quot;My Soul to Keep&quot; -- THE  LIVING BLOOD.<br />For those who have read &quot;My Soul to Keep&quot; (and if you haven't,  RUN to get it), THE LIVING BLOOD begins five years after the  death of David/Dawit, Jessica's husband.  Jessica has moved to  Africa, along with her sister and three-year-old daughter.  To  aid in closing the lid of a painful past, Jessica focuses on  running a clinic that miraculously assists in the curing of  extremely ill children.  But it's not that easy for Jessica to  forget her past, for it lives within her, in her blood...and in  her young daughter's, who has powers well beyond any living person...mortal or immortal.  Jessica's daughter is the first child to be born with the living blood, and this fact does not sit well with the immortals who dwell the Earth...immortals who have lived hundreds of years, and would want nothing more than to see the prodigal child terminated.  Jessica's child can be the key to revealing the immortals to the real world...either sparking a union or battle that may destroy civilization.<br />I don't think I could write a review that adequately displays my joy in reading this book.  The 500 plus pages of the novel initially daunted me, but the ease in which Due writes makes for a voraciously fast-paced read.  The characters jump off the page, and the descriptions of the settings are so vivid.  Due writes this unique story so well, that you almost ask yourself if what she's writing about is real...that's some great fiction.<br />I adored this novel and the breadth of which Due wrote it.  It's a DEFINITE must have on every book shelf.	2001-05-08
US	49389184	R2TS97K0YOXQDO	0967550521	537047724	Whippins, Switches, & Peach Cobbler	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Definitely Takes You Back In The Day!!!	Old-fashioned child rearing and family are at the forefront of Whippins, Switches &amp; Peach Cobbler, a humorous, yet poignant novel by Brian Egeston.  Sheila and Ronald Dempkins are two-thirds of a tight, loving family, the final third being their son, Benny.  The family lives a life full of love and laughter, as well as a strong tie to family and tradition.  Two traditions that are definitely present are switches (which lead to whippings) and family reunions (a place where kids often find the former).<br />Due to his parents' discipline of him, and his closeness to his family, Benny grows up to become a well-mannered, highly intelligent young man, but when his growth leads him to move away for college, his absence causes a riff in his immediate family, as his parents begin to realize that their marriage may not be able to survive without the glue of Benny to keep it together.<br />I have to say, this book was wonderful.  It brought back a lot of memories for me.  Being old enough to remember a time when I had to go pick my own switch off a tree, I was definitely able to relate to the children in the story, but more so than that, Egeston paints a very vivid story, with well-defined characters, realistic problems and situations, and just the right amount of humor for laughs and drama for tears.  I found myself going to my mother after reading this and sitting down with her to talk about the good old days that were full of family reunions, more food than you could ever eat, and the inevitable switch...we  both had our tales.  I would definitely recommend this novel to anyone who wants to see how true familial love and the bond of that love can withstand any adversity that may come your way.	2001-05-08
US	49389184	R1XJRODCZ5RY7X	097069850X	274652792	Isra the Butterfly Gets Caught For Show And Tell	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful Children's Book!	Isra is a young butterfly who wishes to spread her wings and take a trip beyond Butterfly Land to the outside world, where boys and girls live.  When her reluctant mother finally allows Isra to go with her two sisters, Kelly and Nicole, Isra flies right into Show and Tell trouble.<br />This is the premise for Christine Young-Robinson's first children's book, Isra The Butterfly Gets Caught for Show and Tell.  Isra The Butterfly is a very charming book.  The story flows nicely and it makes for a great book for parents to read to their younger child...or for children up to age 9 to read to themselves.  I adored the illustrations by Larry Finney and found that they complemented the text perfectly.<br />For parents looking for a beautifully-crafted children's book with vibrant illustrations, I would definitely recommend Robinson's Isra The Butterfly.	2001-05-08
US	49389184	R1LQ5MWV4KJK4F	1893652777	398844234	Learning to Scream: Joanne's Revelation	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Nice Debut Novel!!!	Learning to Scream tells the tale of Joanne, a 19-year-old who feels that she is the last living virgin.  It doesn't help that her sexually-aggressive best friend, Niki is always harping on sex or has declared Joanne's fate as the only virgin on the planet.  Niki makes Joanne her project, and proceeds to drag her from club to club in search of a guy who Joanne can &quot;get some&quot; from.  After weeks of wrong guys, Joanne realizes that the club scene isn't where she'll find her man, and decides to focus her energy on more important aspects of her life, like school.  On a random train ride, Joanne exchanges glimpses with a guy -- Jason -- who she feels is her &quot;love at first sight,&quot; and through another chance encounter, Joanne begins a friendship with him.  The friendship leads to Joanne's first romantic relationship and things couldn't be better, but lies, secrets and revelations emerge, and Joanne has to decide if she wants to continue a relationship that doesn't feel quite right, or break it off and refocus on what's important, her.<br />I really enjoyed this novel.  It's small, at 128 pages, but the storyline between the pages is nicely developed, the dialogue is crisp, and the story is fluid.  I found the characters interesting, and I read fast to see how the story would end.  Ms. Nesbit's debut novel is a great read, and provides a message for younger females who are entering the sex/romance stage.  I do look forward to more writings by Ms. Nesbit.	2001-05-08
US	49389184	R17J26WSORFZ9I	0966791304	891415056	Purpose Lies Within	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A Pageturner full of VIVID description!	Purpose Lies Within by Kimberly S. Phillips<br />Purpose Lies Within is a coming-of-LIFE story about Nia Chevez.  The story chronicles her life as a child in the harsh streets of Brooklyn, a child neglected by a mother hypnotized by drugs and the barrage of men who come into her mother's life, and painfully, into hers as well.  She finds tastes of happiness with her best friend's family, but soon feels a burden to them, and after one too many attacks by her mother's current abusive man, she flees, to try and find a place and some peace of her own.<br />Unfortunately, Nia's exploration into adulthood brings yet more pain and heartache, and it's in San Diego that she's faced with tough choices...and the chance to love...but first, she must realize that the true purpose of life...and her happiness lies within her own self...not others.<br />This novel was a fairly fast read for me, and I continued reading in the hopes that I would find Nia's happiness right along with her.  I'll let you read the novel for yourself to see if this really happens.<br />There were a few things that concerned me in the novel.  One, the narration tended to replicate the dialogue in many instances, and as a reader, I didn't find the need for that.  The storyline and dialogue was simple enough so that I would know what's going on, without a narration of what would be said prior to what was said.<br />Two, profanity vs. not using profanity.  All the characters in the book say the word 'Gosh' a lot; however, I also saw the same characters using much harsher words, and for me...and remember, this is just my opinion, if you can say the 'f' word, not too often will you say GOSH.<br />Third, the notion of love.  I never really felt any of the men in this novel actually knew what love was.  They seemed to be in heat over superficial things such as Nia's long tresses, pretty eyes, full breasts, and slamming body and then at the end, it was followed up by an oh, I love her.<br />Despite my concerns, Phillips did a wonderful job in being graphic and vivid with all physical components of the novel.  I swear, I could literally see the pain, the bruises, the heartache, and the blood of Nia's battles to survive through years of abuse, and often times, I cried right along with  her.<br />PURPOSE LIES WITHIN is a very touching and poignant of the trials and tribulations one girl must endure to finally have the chance to bloom into the young and happy woman she has dreamed of becoming., Phillips did a wonderful job in being graphic and vivid with all physical components of the novel.  I swear, I could literally see the pain, the bruises, the heartache, and the blood of Nia's battles to survive through years of abuse, and often times, I cried right along with  her.<br />PURPOSE LIES WITHIN is a very touching and poignant of the trials and tribulations one girl must endure to finally have the chance to bloom into the young and happy woman she has dreamed of becoming.	2001-01-30
US	49389184	R2GROI8A8DGHO8	096737510X	950901029	This Mother's Daughter	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Beautiful Tribute to the Wisdom of the Black Mother!!	One of the strongest relationships that can shape and mold a  young woman's life is the one between her and her mother.  Nelvia M. Brady's &quot;This Mother's Daughter&quot; is a collection  of real-life stories taken from the daughters of African American mothers.  These stories reflect the good and the bad, the joyful and the painful, and the wisdom and messages that these daughters received from their mothers...and thus, USED in order to try and make their own lives as women and mothers better.<br />I was profoundly touched by these stories, and found myself moved to smiles and tears as I read the words from these women, women taken from all walks of life, from the attorney to the administrative assistant, from the middle-class/upper-life to the poverty level, from the happy childhood to one of abuse and adoption.  Each story will resonate a strong, powerful message to mothers and daughters everywhere.<br />The book ends with a section titled RECLAIM YOUR STORY that contains questions for readers to answer in order to reflect upon their own relationships with the women in their lives.<br />I would HIGHLY recommend this book to every woman...it conjured up thoughts of my own loving, beautiful connection I have with my mother...and had with my grandmother, and made me truly appreciate the beauty of the ties that bind.	2001-01-28
US	49389184	R2RL0W4ILCBYZN	0375756531	474970959	The Dying Ground: A Maceo Redfield Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	HIP HOP + URBAN REALITY + SUSPENSE = GREAT NOVEL!	The Dying Ground is one of the best novels I've ever read.  Nichelle D. Tramble's debut novel is hard-hitting and gritty  and goes from 0 to 60 in 6 seconds with the suspense meter.<br />THE DYING GROUND takes us to Oakland, CA...circa 1989, drug wars, crack and gun fire runs rampant in the streets, and we're introduced to Maceo Redfield, a young black man who has always been on the conservative side of ganging and slanging, opting for college instead of drugs and guns.  Since slightly parted, Maceo laments over the break-up of his childhood friendship with Billy Crane and Holly Ford, two well-known men in the drug world.  When Billy Crane is murdered, Maceo finds himself teaming with Holly to bring Billy's murderer to justice...and to find Felicia, Billy's girlfriend and his first true love.  Maceo's decision finds him immersed in violence and drugs and dealers and the dark side, ultimately leading to a shocking, painful climax...he learns that there are ALWAYS prices to pay when you play on the dying ground.<br />Tramble's description of the dark side of urban life - violence,  drugs, death - were so vivid and sadly, true to life, that you're immediately drawn into the world that she creates.  As much drama that ensues, this book is a wonderful suspense as well, and will leave you flipping pages with the swiftness to reach the end, because Tramble gives NOTHING away in this book...you want to know who did it...and why?  Read to the very last page.  This novel is a stark SHOCK of reality, a reality we rarely see between the pages of a novel, a reality filled with pain, but Tramble writes so deliciously through her characters, you make it through the pain to realize what a literary gem THE DYING GROUND is!	2001-01-21
US	49389184	RHFX8Y648SPBG	0967895944	479439646	Dippin My Spoon	Books	2	4	4	N	N	Some entertainment value...but was disappointed!	Unfortunately, I must say right off the top, that this novel did not live up to its title.  I read 'dippin' my spoon' and  assumed the book might have some bite, some hip contemporary  appeal and characters that were unforgettable...and alas, I  was left shaking my head, and wondering if my negative feels  for the book were just in my mind...did others feel the same way?<br />Taking from the back of the novel, DIPPIN' MY SPOON:<br />Amber LaReaux has it all under control.  A new and exciting  life is on the horizon and she is happy.  Or is she?  Amber  quickly discovers a horrible truth about her friends and is  thrust into a maze of distrust and violence that leaves the  reader guessing until the very end.<br />The entire premise of the story fell apart for me from the  start, with Amber being a case manager at a facility that  offered psychological and psychiatric assistance, and yet,  not once was she able to see any of the drama that unfolded  around her.  I know we as humans have a way of lending a  blind eye to our own problems, but I just couldn't take it  to THIS extreme.  By the end of the book I was just like,  Amber...dang..you dumb, and you need to give back them  degrees from which they came.<br />There were also several inconsistencies throughout the  novel...one particular was Amber's own &quot;personality&quot;  switch ups in the novel...one minute, I'm assuming she's  a shy woman, and next, she's downright rude to her &quot;friend&quot;  Che or someone else and the switch-up was too often...and  eventually aggravated me.<br />This is the second book I read recently where romance  played a key part in the story, and yet the romantic  element was drier than a Mohave Desert...I didn't feel  them at all, and had hoped to see more feelings and UMMPH  between the characters that proved there might had been  a spark between them.<br />Umm, to those who read the book..and may read it in the  future...whatever happened to ol' girl's ex, Tyler?...and  um, the destruction of her place...who did it?  I assume I know, but well..the book never really says.<br />My last thought on DIPPIN' for this review...one thing  that really turned me off about DIPPIN' was the lack of  dialogue.  I love to hear people speak, and I feel one can learn a lot about a character through what they say, instead  of a writer TELLING us what they think.  The reader often  knows EVERYTHING before Amber, and therefore, we might see  her as stupid for continuing through the relationships she went  through. You don't have to tell me someone's a dog, and that  this one is a sinner, let me see it through their  actions...their dialogue.<br />Overall, DIPPIN' MY SPOON does hold some entertainment  value...Amber's conniving &quot;friend&quot; Che alone is mean enough  to want to read about...oh yea, and Malik, best character of the  book...would have been great to have his character more brought out. I do think...and this is just my own opinion...that a rewrite and more pages with dialogue, would make this a really nice book...the last chapter or so had drama unfolding left and right...and if clues had been incorporated throughout the book leading up to the climactic ending...it would have definitely made a difference in my review.destruction of her place...who did it?  I assume I know, but well..the book never really says.<br />My last thought on DIPPIN' for this review...one thing  that really turned me off about DIPPIN' was the lack of  dialogue.  I love to hear people speak, and I feel one can learn a lot about a character through what they say, instead  of a writer TELLING us what they think.  The reader often  knows EVERYTHING before Amber, and therefore, we might see  her as stupid for continuing through the relationships she went  through. You don't have to tell me someone's a dog, and that  this one is a sinner, let me see it through their  actions...their dialogue.<br />Overall, DIPPIN' MY SPOON does hold some entertainment  value...Amber's conniving &quot;friend&quot; Che alone is mean enough  to want to read about...oh yea, and Malik, best character of the  book...would have been great to have his character more brought out. I do think...and this is just my own opinion...that a rewrite and more pages with dialogue, would make this a really nice book...the last chapter or so had drama unfolding left and right...and if clues had been incorporated throughout the book leading up to the climactic ending...it would have definitely made a difference in my review.	2001-01-19
US	49389184	R30VJDKSWLFMFF	0345409752	589498807	The Wisdom of the Elders	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Beautiful Collection of POWERFUL QUOTATIONS!	The Wisdom of The Elders is a collection of quotations taken  from the most well-known, well-spoken and well-loved  luminaries of our time, including, Sojourner Truth, W.E.B.  Du Bois, Martin Luther King, Jr., Zora Neale Hurston, Mary  McLeod Bethune, Barbara Jordan, and many more.<br />I'm a person who loves finding that phrase or quote or poem  that epitomizes what I am...or hope to become.  I line my wall  with affirmations that keep me in the positive spirit of not only what I AM, but of where I came from through the elders, and  this book is a small, yet beautifully-collected and sectioned book with powerful quotations taken from various topics, such as  power and politics, creativity and culture, self-esteem, values,  education, family, black women and black men, a living God,  and several more.<br />If you want to feel empowered by the strong words of poignant  quotations that still ring true as we move into the 21st century, then The Wisdom of The Elders is a wonderful book to add to your collection.<br />Shonell Bacon, author of LUVALWAYZ:  The Opposite Sex &amp; Relationships<br />RAW Sistaz member and RAWREVIEWER	2001-01-19
US	49389184	R33QPQSLKN40WC	0345423275	583655683	The African American Writer's Handbook: How to Get in Print and Stay in Print	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A MUST-HAVE for any aspiring AFRICAN AMERICAN writer!	This book is a definite must for any aspiring African American writer!  For the reader, it's as if you're a fly on the wall taking part of some top-secret information.  The handbook is chock full of information regarding:<br />1. Tips on submitting proposals, query letters, and preparing manuscripts for submission; 2. Advice on finding an agent and negotiating contracts that launch careers; 3. Interviews with top editors, agents, publishing executives, and bookstore owners; 4. Updated information on copyrights, subsidiary rights, and sales and marketing; 5. The trials and tribulations of self-publishing; and 6. The art of promoting your work and yourself to a wider  audience<br />Not only does this book provide a comprehensive guide to the  OTHER side of writing (the okay, now I got a book, what do I  need to know now?), but it provides inspiration as well to the  number of aspiring writers out there who might feel they will  never understand anything beyond the writing-a-book stage... now you have a great beginning lesson to read on the entire  publishing process.<br />If you're a true writer, and want to know about all the facets  of the publishing world, this is a book you NEED to have on  your shelf.<br />Shonell Bacon, author	2001-01-19
US	49389184	R2QB3UGKJGLP5F	0966973038	286881030	Blueprints: A Way of Life: A Step-by-Step Approach to Developing Human Relations Skills	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Learn Skills That Can improve your LIFE with this book...	Blueprints is a non-fiction book that tackles the topics of self-esteem/worth restoration, negotiation skills and interpersonal communication in order to provide an individual with the necessary basic tools one needs in order to not only learn how to find the self-worth in their selves, but to have positive communication with others...communication that will ultimately aid the individual in accomplishing their own goals.<br />Rashun Jones does a great job in bulleting key steps in various topics, such as developing a successful identity, keys to successful negotiations, and goal-setting, to name a few.<br />The biggest message I received from the book is that you must FIRST have self-worth.  After all, if you don't believe you can do something, or if you believe you will always fail, then how can you communicate your wants and needs to others in an effective manner?  Jones first lays down the foundation of why we, as African Americans often feel less than the stars we are...dating back to slavery (with a very interesting tale of how slave owners took &quot;steps&quot; to break down our spirits, etc...), and upon laying this foundation, Jones moves to discussing the importance of self-identity, of creating a positive aura for yourself...and relates how important a role PARENTS play in a child's concept of self.<br />For me, personally, I'm a person with many goals and aspirations, and felt that this book gave me &quot;cheat sheets&quot; if you will, of steps I can take in removing negative ghosts from my psyche and to push forward and make what I dream a reality.<br />I believe everyone could benefit in purchasing BLUEPRINTS, and keeping it nearby for reference!<br />Shonell Bacon, author of &quot;Luvalwayz:  The Opposite Sex &amp; Relationships&quot;<br />RAW Sistaz Member &amp; Book Reviewer	2001-01-13
US	49389184	R26CW7LD58LUOH	0375756590	489907150	The Shirt off His Back: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A WONDERFUL book that holds BLACK MEN in a positive light!	First and foremost, I have to give Ms. Brown MADD PROPS for writing a book that depicted GOOD, LOVING, HONEST brothers.  Unfortunately in my reading of contemporary novels, I rarely come across books that make you go, mm mm mm, I want one of those...and Ms. Brown's novel, \\"The Shirt Off His Back\\" did that and a whole lot more.<br />\\"The Shirt Off His Back\\" is the story of Terry, a good, kind black man who is raising his 10-year-old twin daughters.  Since their birth, he has had custody over them, seeing that their mother just didn't have the time or the maternal inclination to take part in their upbringing.  Now, ten years later, with Terry finally finding happiness with Jackie (a beautiful sistah with her own self-esteem issues)...he's ready to make his relationship a union of both his and Jackie's families, but his twins' mother - Catherine - is back, and wants her daughters...so that she can climb the ladder of career success.<br />This novel was a one-sitting reading, as I got engrossed with Brown's characters.  Brown pulls the reader in with her conversational dialogue, and I found myself racing to finish, in the hopes that Terry would win custody of his daughters (you'll have to read for yourself to find out!)<br />To those of us who have lived in the Waiting to Exhale, my man don' dogged me, my man ain't no good era of relationship novels, this is a definite read to restore your faith in the black men we DO know and love for their conviction and values.<br />Shonell Bacon, author of &quot;Luvalwayz:  The Opposite Sex &amp; Relationships&quot;<br />RAW Sistaz Member &amp; Book Reviewer	2001-01-13
US	49389184	R1NU20LEP03ELV	1581128614	554824059	BJ: A Supernatural Horror Story	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	A Fast-Paced, suspensefully horrific tale...get it now!	I have to say right up front that normally I do not do horror or supernatural novels.  Why you might ask?  Because I'm a 'fraidy cat, plain and simple.  That, and I've never been able to let my mind go and actually consider the descriptions and tales they are trying to tell.<br />However, BJ, written by Kimile Aczon, hooked me in once I read the back cover.  In short description, BJ is about seven people, whose lives are forever changed by one event; the pregnancy of one of the main character, Denise Johnson. <br />BJ is fiercest roller coaster into hell that you will find out there.  Aczon so vividly describes macabre scenes that will have your imagination set on FEAR and have your mind racing to figure out what dastardly deed will take place next.  Good and Evil have never fought to viciously.<br />Aczon does a wonderful job in enabling the reader to follow coherently all seven characters - both individually, as well as collectively - as they blindlessly journey towards the cataclysmic birth of Denise's child, and the climactic ending that results from it.<br />If you are a lover of horror novels, of supernatural novels, then BJ is a definite must-have in your collection, so pick it up today by clicking on the title above.<br />Shonell Bacon......	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R3YH8GPQ06I21	1575664895	824287693	Casting The First Stone	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	DEFINITE page turner!	A year or so ago, I picked up Roby's novel, &quot;Behind Closed Doors&quot; and read it in one sitting...it was just that good. I interviewed her last November, my very first interview, before her latest novel CASTING THE FIRST STONE was to drop. When her publicist e-mailed me for another interview, I was too thrilled and quickly went to purchase and devour her latest literary treat...and I was NOT disappointed. What better topic to tackle seriously in a novel but corruption of the black church?<br />CTFS introduces us to Tanya and Curtis Black, the first family of a prominent Baptist church in Chicago. Tanya knew that life was perfect when 8 years earlier, Curtis proposed marriage to her, and to his calling by God to lead a religious life in the church. The Black family moves from Atlanta to a growing congregation in Chicago, and this move instantly changes Tanya and her life and family forever.<br />I read CTFS in one sitting, about three hours, so enthralled by Tanya and the incredible going ons of the characters that I couldn't put the book down. Revenge, greed, lust, corruption, and lies are all destruction mechanisms in Tanya's life, and it's not until she's able to deal with the shocking truths about herself and her husband, that she is able to realize that revenge isn't sweet and negative solutions for negative situations will not make her happy. Roby has proven herself prolific with her first two novels, &quot;Behind Closed Doors&quot; and &quot;Here and Now&quot;, and with Casting The First Stone, Roby proves that her literary talents will continue for a long time to come.<br />Shonell Bacon, author of &quot;Luvalwayz:  The Opposite Sex &amp; Relationships&quot;	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R3DPQ9MXNS9S17	038549680X	825776737	The Future Has a Past	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Beautiful, Poignant Stories...MUST READS for the sisterhood!	I have to almost shyly say that I've never read a book by Ms. Cooper before, but when her newest work was sent to me, the title alone drew me in, and the book refused to let me go until I finished the last page.<br />The Future Has A Past is a collection of four stories that centered around a topic that women of all shades hold dear:  LOVE.  In these stories, Cooper introduces us to ordinary women who discover that love sometimes comes when you least expect it to.<br />In the collection, you'll find:<br />1. Maisha, the narrator of &quot;A Shooting Star,&quot; chronicles the much-gossiped-about affairs of her friend Lorene and laments her inability to differentiate between sex and love,<br />2. In &quot;The Eagle Flies,&quot; Vinnie, a single mother, devotes herself to her selfish children, letting opportunities for her own happiness slip by until it is almost too late,<br />3. In &quot;A Filet of Soul,&quot; Louella, raised to believe she is ugly and undesirable, falls for a fast-talking con man and loses her small inheritance and her dignity; but his betrayal turns out to mark the beginning of a love affair -- and a life -- Louella had never imagined she would find, and<br />4. &quot;The Lost and the Found,&quot; Lorene waits and waits for the philanderer she loves to marry her, almost letting the love of a good man pass her by<br />First and foremost, I have to say that Cooper's style is one that evokes emotions, that pulls you into the women's lives and pains, making you tap into your very own.  There is no way I could pick just one story as my favorite, for as a woman, I found truth in each and every story, and so often found myself saying, &quot;So and so NEEDS to read this story, and open their eyes.&quot;<br />Not only does Cooper spin a wonderful story, but she intricately weaves truth and wisdom into her words, making these stories almost a testament to various aspects of this thing called love.<br />The Future Has A Past is a book that should be a must-read to not only African American women, but to ALL women of the sisterhood, because I believe not one woman could read this collection and not find herself in at least one of the stories.<br />Let Cooper's down home narrators invite you into the excellent read that is The Future Has A Past...you'll definitely leave with new perspectives on love, and realizing that although we look to our futures, our pasts will help to construct those futures...make your NOW important and full of love, for yourself.<br />Shonell Bacon....ad to not only African American women, but to ALL women of the sisterhood, because I believe not one woman could read this collection and not find herself in at least one of the stories.<br />Let Cooper's down home narrators invite you into the excellent read that is The Future Has A Past...you'll definitely leave with new perspectives on love, and realizing that although we look to our futures, our pasts will help to construct those futures...make your NOW important and full of love, for yourself.<br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	RYMQS9Z2GD3PJ	0964763567	588004163	When You Look At Me	Books	4	20	20	N	N	A gripping novel from an author soon to be known by many!	When you look at me, what do you see?  This is the question asked by 17-year-old, Tamlyn Blake, a welfare mother of two, high school drop out who is living in the projects; and her boyfriend Hassan Colbirth, a 23-year-old ex-convict drug dealer, loaded down with luxury automobile and a child from a previous relationship.  WHEN YOU LOOK AT ME is the first novel from author Undra &quot;E.&quot; Biggs, and if the writing has anything to do with future novels, Biggs will be a name known by many.<br />First and foremost, this novel is very real, and as a result very painful to read at times.  The reality of the situations that surround Tamlyn and Hassan are so &quot;in your face&quot; that you feel immersed with the characters, and consequently ride their emotional rollercoasters as they hit highs and slam into lows.<br />The novel intermingles the reality of daily living with bittersweet love in a way that makes for a fast read.  I often time found myself upset with the main character, after all, love is love, but pain is pain, and you too will become so engrossed with Tamlyn's character, that you will want her to succeed and to leave the negativity once and for all in order to revel in the happiness that should be so good and sweet for her.  But in this story, you'll learn - among many things - that what's on the surface barely tells the true story.  Love may be forever, but will it make you happy?  Just because you live in the projects, does that mean you're insignificant?  Can you ever climb out of a hole you've spent your entire life involuntarily digging yourself into?<br />When you look at WHEN YOU LOOK AT ME, you'll understand the answers to these questions, and so many more.  Bittersweet and revealing to the end is this novel...a definite must-read!<br />Shonell Bacon, author of &quot;Luvalwayz:  The Opposite Sex &amp; Relationships&quot;	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R3TYJSC6N05WSS	0966353919	605639480	Love Has Many Faces	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A Solid Read...deserving of being on your bookshelf!	First and foremost, I have to say that &quot;Love Has Many Faces&quot; is a wonderful read! It took me only one sitting to read this thick and robust novel. Love interweaves several stories and plot lines into one novel that has one underlying theme, in my opinion, and that is loving God, and allowing him to help you to guide your life in the &quot;right&quot; way.  This book indeed shows that love has many faces as characters deal with life-changing circumstances, such as drugs, alcohol, death, and fame. Not only are the faces of love with each character, but most importantly with the characters who interact with one another, who love one another through harrowing times, in hindsight realizing that even when the face of love is someone telling you what you don't want to hear... I was moved with the spirit of the character, Robin. Her devotion to God, her &quot;right&quot; living never falters, and it proves that opening your heart to God is never in vain.   There were so many character plots, both &quot;major&quot; characters and minors, that to some, the thought of a novel getting bogged down might occur; however, Ms. Turney does an exquisite job in telling each individual tale and pulling you into each character's life and how his or her life is ultimately affected by choices they make and the friends they keep.  I guarantee that everyone who reads this will find at least one character that they will see a part of themselves in.  &quot;Love Has Many Faces&quot; is not just a book you'd want to cuddle up and read with, even though the writing is so well done, you won't want to put it down. Love also teaches us lessons. Lessons about life and spirituality and self-esteem and perseverance and ultimately LOVE, love of our SELF, of each other, of the world, and most importantly, of God.<br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R2R11JU5BL7Y7Q	0380811308	150038577	Skin Deep	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	A wonderful debut novel...DEFINITE must-read!	This year, I came across a ... novel that was romantic, suspenseful and real, and had me crying at the end because it wrenched every emotion from you. That novel is Kathleen Cross' &quot;Skin Deep&quot;. I had the privilege of interviewing Ms. Cross..... and without a doubt, I have to say the author is just as real as her writing.<br />SKIN DEEP is the story of Nina Moore, an African American woman who up until her move to Arizona, never considered herself to be anything else BUT a black woman. Even with her pale skin and blue eyes, it didn't bother her when others mistook her for being white, but she soon realizes, through her fianc&eacute; (whose own past creates a need to be with someone &quot;like&quot; Nina), her need and want to find a true love (enter the ever sexy, yet recently released ex-convict, widower and single father, Ahmad) and the secrets that slowly leak from her past, that the most important things in life and love are truly SKIN DEEP.<br />This novel is a definite must-read for all readers, white and black. For romance readers, the sensuous scenes will leave you wanting an AHMAD, STAT! For suspense readers, the secrets that spill from Nina's past will definitely leave you spent! For realist, the racial identity issues (between blacks and whites, as well as blacks and blacks) will definitely leave you nodding your head in confirmation and shaking it in dismay.<br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R2Y5IICY2IZCOO	0964763575	496668122	Water in a Broken Glass	Books	3	41	41	N	N	This Novel DEFINITELY isn't broken!  GREAT debut novel!	Like a lot of readers, I judge a book by its back cover.  If you can entice me with the back, then you at least get a chance of having me BEGIN  the book.  Admittedly, the back of Odessa Rose's novel, WATER IN A BROKEN GLASS, wasn't what drew me into the novel, because once you have read it, you know that the back cover description just DOESN'T do this novel justice.<br />WATER IN A BROKEN GLASS is the tale of Tonya Mimms, a wonderfully talented sculptor, who has always felt that something about her sexually wasn't as 'normal' as all her friends.  In her mission to be what everyone around her WANTS her to be, as well as the haunting thoughts of a high school incident that leaves her sexually-confused, Tanya finds herself immersing her entire being in the world of sculpting, and at all cost, avoiding love.  Unexpectedly, she finds herself in a rainy day encounter with the handsome Malcolm Holland, a man who quickly becomes a part of Tonya's life, and whom Tanya falls head over heels in love with.  Just when she thinks her life of career and love is complete, she meets the dark and beautiful Satin Pierce, a woman who has her once again, questioning her sexuality and what she truly wants out of life.  Will Tonya finally learn to live for herself...or will she be swept into doing as others SAY?  That's the big question in this romantic drama.<br />I was extremely impressed with Rose's grasp of language and description.  An example can be found earlier in the novel, when Tonya has met Malcolm and goes on a bike ride with him:<br />&quot;...I let out a little scream and grabbed him tightly around his waist, but I couldn't hold all of him.  It was almost as if everything this man was and would be couldn't fit in my arms.  And if I really wanted to hold onto him, I'd have to take pieces of him and streak them through my hair like dye, dab them behind my ears like perfume, stick them in my mouth like tongue kisses, and wear them on my legs like stockings.  Oh, my hands could do wonders with his body, I thought.&quot;<br />Rose vividly describes her characters, and it was so easy to see them as the drama unfolded.  Not only is WATER IN A BROKEN GLASS a romantic drama, but it also goes into self-discovery, coming-of-age, sexuality, self-esteem, with the ultimate moral theme being to follow your heart, to not let others keep you from your true happiness.  Who you are and what you do may cause conflicts in your life, but in the end, if you aren't true to yourself, you're living a lie.<br />This was one of the first novels I've read where homosexuality played a theme with the main character(s), and Rose did an excellent job in writing the scenes and feelings of the characters in a tasteful and realistic manner.<br />It's a nicely paced novel that is both entertaining and thought provoking.<br />Shonell Bacon....do wonders with his body, I thought.&quot;<br />Rose vividly describes her characters, and it was so easy to see them as the drama unfolded.  Not only is WATER IN A BROKEN GLASS a romantic drama, but it also goes into self-discovery, coming-of-age, sexuality, self-esteem, with the ultimate moral theme being to follow your heart, to not let others keep you from your true happiness.  Who you are and what you do may cause conflicts in your life, but in the end, if you aren't true to yourself, you're living a lie.<br />This was one of the first novels I've read where homosexuality played a theme with the main character(s), and Rose did an excellent job in writing the scenes and feelings of the characters in a tasteful and realistic manner.<br />It's a nicely paced novel that is both entertaining and thought provoking. <br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R1J596PFU55JUR	1575665972	702863233	If I Could	Books	4	3	4	N	N	GREAT transition from ROMANCE 2 MAINSTREAM!	As many of you know, Donna Hill is an award-winning and national best-selling author of romance, with nineteen titles to her credit.  &quot;If I Could&quot; is Hill's wonderful transition into the contemporary fiction arena, making her mark with such authors as BeBe Moore Campbell, Terry McMillan, and others.<br />&quot;If I Could&quot; tells the story of Regina Everette, a woman who has spent most of her life doing as others say - her mother, her sistahgirls, her husband...and as a result she ultimately loses herself.  Living in a marriage most women dream of - a husband who provides for her every whim and stays faithful, Regina finds herself needing more, much to the chagrin of her mother and friends, and when she finally reaches a pinnacle in her journalistic career and has children, Regina decides to leave her husband and soon thereafter, leave her career, and even though everyone around her fears she has lost her mind, Regina embarks on a journey that is self-fulfilling and blossoms her into the woman she has always wanted to become.<br />Even in the busyness of my life, once I picked up Hill's novel, I could not put it down, and two hours later, I was thoroughly pleased with the novel's fast-paced drama.  I found myself engrossed with the characters, wanting to defend Regina's independence to her mother and her friends Victoria and Trio, women who have their own crosses to bear in this novel, and should take heed to the saying that those that live in glass houses shouldn't throw stones.  Hill fleshes out the characters and supplants them in trials and tribulations that readers will be able to relate to with ease.<br />I can only hope that Hill continues to move into the contemporary fiction genre, and entice us with her words, as she has done her romance readers for so many years.	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R1U1XPYFK3T24Q	006105366X	237718280	My Soul to Keep (African Immortals series)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	By FAR, one of the best books of 2000!	Nothing compared me for Tananarive Due's novel, MY SOUL TO KEEP...it was so well-written, I could do nothing but devour it from beginning to end.  The novel tells the tale of Jessica, an African American journalist who appears to have it all; a thriving career, a beautiful and talented little girl, and a man who surpasses all her hopes and dreams.  When the story of her career becomes the story of her LIFE, Jessica watches as the life she knows slowly unravels to one into the supernatural realm...nothing for her will ever be the same again.<br />I read this novel in ONE EVENING, all 330+ pages of it!  There was not a dull moment in the novel, and I was drawn into the world of Jessica's....and Dawit (a person whose life will surprise and anger you..and at times, make you pity him).  To totally enjoy a supernatural, you have to release your mind and allow yourself to move beyond the REALITY and life, and MY SOUL TO KEEP draws you in with the very first page and never for one second lets you go.  The breadth of knowledge that went into this novel, the fast and suspenseful way Due wrote it, and the climactic ending makes this novel one of pure literature.  The novel left me jumbled with emotion, and ironically, not very 'happily ever after' like most novels, but it makes you crave a sequel...and I'll be one of the first to buy it when it comes out!<br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R3A6RKAL6KRWH4	0970010214	142112089	Like Boogie On Tuesday	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Boogie on DOWN and pick up a copy of LBOT today!	I sat down one night to read a couple pages of this novel, and ended up red-eyed and full of so many emotions as I placed the finished book down at 3 in the morning. Had to actually e-mail the author and let her know just how profound I found her book to be. LBOT taps into so many levels and issues; spirituality, homosexuality, individuality, being overweight, lies, deceit, betrayal, love, and Grosvenor does a wonderful job in interweaving each of these intricacies into LBOT, giving the reader a roller coaster of a ride through the lives of sisters Nina and Troi who are faced with situations that leave them coming to grips with not only their spirituality, but also, as Troi will face her own mortality. LBOT is a gripping tale of how loving God, and trusting Him in your life can ultimately lead you to a newfound wisdom and to love of self and others. It's a must read for any reader who prides themselves in reading great literature.<br />Shonell Bacon....	2001-01-07
US	49389184	R23TR0T1H1N9I1	0967624509	400413173	Life Expressions	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Life Expressions is DEFINITELY full of LIFE	Life Expressions is the collection of poetry by newly published author,  Miguel Wilder.  Broken into three sections; spiritual, emotional and  romantic connections, Life Expressions is definitely the poetic  autobiographical account of parts of the author's own life, as he shares  his joy, pain, success, failure, love lost, and lust in each verse.  Wilder  tells his life's tales, but as a reader one will be able to smile and laugh  and feel wistful and think with his poetry, feeling a connection between  the poetic verses and their own life.  Some personal favorites of mine;  &quot;12-Round Love Bout,&quot; &quot;A Message to My Mother,&quot;  &quot;God Bless My Cybersoul,&quot; &quot;There's No Distance Too  Great,&quot; &quot;Black Like Me,&quot; and &quot;Forever Moving  Forward.&quot;  If you're looking for a unique, yet poignant poetry book,  look no further than Life Expressions.	2000-08-26
