US	49380736	R2RCOA7ZI21HWK	1590383699	481254766	Leven Thumps And The Gateway To Foo	Books	4	18	21	N	N	A Wonderul Fantasy full of Whimsy!	Obert Skye's impressive debut, \\"Leven Thumps and the Gateway to Foo\\" treads water with that of Lemony Snicket and Frank Baum.  His prose is full of humorous whimsy (ala loveable talking toothipick!), wonderful characters, fantastic and wonderful moments, and true originality.  Leven Thumps is fourteen years old, and lives a life of true sadness in Oaklahoma, where his guardians treat him cruely.  This all changes when a small creature named Clover, comes and changes Leven's world; telling him that he is capable of amazing powers and is the only one who can save a wonderful place called Foo; thereby possibly saving the entire Earth itself.  Leven must accomplish this all by  destroying the gateway between Foo and reality before the evil Sabine can reach it and merge reality with Foo, thereby ending dreams forever in mankind.  Along the way, Leven recieves help from a girl named Winter, who has the ability to freeze objects, and a talking toothpick named Geth, the rightful king of Foo.  Skye weaves a wonderful plot in this first book of a proposed series.  Some younger readers might think the story takes too long to be set up, but that's the main theme of a first book in a series; to introduce the readers to the characters and the world.  Skye pulls the plotting of impressively, making even the the most boring setting such as Oaklahoma come alive with wonder. A good chunk of the beginning of the book is used to set up the series and the plot, but Skye handles the sometimes complicated situation with skill.  Skye's originality should alone make this book a keeper seeing as the world is populated by nits, offings, sycophunts, and candy that rearranges your face rather than the usual elves, dwarves, and dragons! The one minor problem as other reviewers have mentioned is that Skye sometimes tells the readers about situations rather than explaining them, which is a passable mistake and does not detract from the wonder of the story.  So fantasy lovers, come join Leven, Winter, Clover, and Geth on their quirky, funny, and fantastical adventure to Foo where the word impossible doesn't exist and dreams become reality!  (Highly reccommended.)	2005-09-01
US	49380736	R2RKHE18MI3R58	0689872429	797046006	The Conch Bearer (Brotherhood of the Conch)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	An Exotic Magical Adventure!	Divakaruni's exotic adventure \\"The Conch Bearer\\" stands out among the many palid children fantasies out there.  Her characters are fresh, vivid, and 3-dimensional, and she sucks you into the Indian setting showing you and ultimately making you appreciate their culture.  Anand is not enjoying his life when the story starts.  Ever since his father left for a job in America, every day that passes erodes the hope from Anand that he might come back.  Money becomes short and soon Anand's mother can't afford to send him or his sister to school anymore and Anand has to go and get a job for the horrible Haru.  One day, Anand is kind to a strange man, Abhaydatta, who ultimately whisks him away on a grand adventure and entrusts Anand with the task to safely return the all powerful Conch to the Silver Valley; a nirvana high in the mountains. Anand must do this all the while trying to keep the Conch from the greedy Surabhanu.  This story may not sound all that original, but Divakaruni's Indian setting and vivid characters give it a fresh spin that left me clamoring for the sequel.  Don't miss out on this magical adventure.	2005-08-13
US	49380736	R3NZBTMPD4X2FK	0786856297	871827197	The Lightning Thief (Percy Jackson and the Olympians, Book 1)	Books	4	39	48	N	N	A Fresh New Fantasy Tale For Children!	Rick Riordan steps into the world of children's publishing after a successful adult writing career with the very well imagined new fantasy adventure; \\"The Lightning Thief\\".  Percy Jackson is a 12 year old boy who up until he finds out that he is a half-blood (the son of a mortal and a god), thought that he was just a stupid loser with ADHD who kept getting thrown out of boarding school after boarding school.  After a disaster filled year at his latest boarding school where he accidentally vaporizes his evil math teacher; Percy finds out that his best friend Grover is a Satyr, discovers the wonderful Camp Half-Blood where kids like him go for the summer to train against monsters, and also that he is accused of something so terrible that it just might cause the war of all wars between the gods.  Percy is a realistic character who has a tougher edge than most fantasy characters out there with a sardonic undertone.  He's been through a lot of bullying at his many schools and he's no whimp which makes reading about his adventure all of the more exciting.  The supporting characters however are not as realistic and 3-dimensional.  Grover the Satyr and Annabel, a daughter of Athena, accompany Percy on his adventure to stop the war between the gods and that seems to be the only reason that they are there; to make a trio.  They do have some back story that makes them almost interesting, but not enough to reach the caliber of Percy.  The real power of this story that makes it so great is the element of Greek mythology that has never really played a main part in books before as much as it does in this one.  The creativeness that Riordan uses to blend the mythology with modern times is what really makes this book enjoyable for all children everywhere.  This book is a great original read for kids, with a movie version already on the way.  Although it has some flaws, it is very enjoyable, action packed, and full of creative ways that modernize the classic Greek myths.  Children everywhere are sure to be clamoring for the sequel.	2005-08-01
US	49380736	R7N535LF72XJ1	0439784549	162568542	Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince (Book 6)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Good ... But not up to the standards of the rest in the series (spoilers)	The saga of Harry Potter continues in \\"Harry Potter and the Half-Blood Prince\\" and I'm glad I'm not the only reviewer who feels slightly disappointed in this new volume.  I love the series ... it is my favorite of all time ... but this volume just didn't have the same magical details, suspense, and overall engaging qualities that you would find in the previous five novels.  The story seemed very rushed and had very few of Rowling's famous little details that makes some fans of the books despise the movies because those details are missing.  Even in some of the plotlines you felt as if Rowling was actually there manipulating the characters into doing something so random so that it would set up a plot.  Anyways, Harry returns for his sixth year to Hogwarts where the wizarding community is at a hiatus at Voldemort's return.  The only problem with this plotline is that you only hear of the terrible things that Voldemort does instead of seeing them happen, which makes him more of a paper-like, 2-dimensional villain that villains so often become in children novels ...but Voldemort definitely is not 2-dimensional.  The look into his past thanks to Dumbledore's lessons with Harry involving the overused pensieve is fascinating, and we learn a lot about the boy who became Voldemort, which truly was the best plotline in the whole book.  Now, my main problem with the book besides the rushed-like quality, was the plotline of the Half-Blood Prince.  This plot-line was so minimal I felt confused as to why it was used as the title.  It was more of a sub-plot than a title, main plot.  Harry recieves a potions book in which the mysterious Half-Blood Prince has written better advice on potions and spells and therefore causes Harry to do better in potions.  That is basiaclly what the Prince does throughout the novel till his unveling; show Harry new spells and how to make potions!  I personally think that the title should have revolved around the more central plot of Draco who actuallybecomes a fascinating 3-dimensional character in this volume.   Anyways, the Half-Blood Prince plotline turned out to actually be a minimal part of the book, and I can see how it once was actually in the first draft of Chamber of Secrets as Rowling has revealed on her website.  The plotline was minimal, really a letdown to me, and all you're left with at the end of the book is the identity of the \\"Prince\\" and a textbook explanation.  There is a major character death in this book ... but you had to be living under a rock if you didn't know that!  The death was pretty obvious, so I won't ruin it for anyone here but it doesn't take much brainpower to deduce who dies.  This volume did have a lot of answers, and it sets up the next book nicely and gives you a clear idea at what to expect ... but it felt rushed, and plots did not feel fully developed as I said earlier.  Hopefully the seventh and sadly last volume in the Harry Potter series will be just as good as the first five and improve over the sixth.	2005-07-19
US	49380736	R2UDKV4JO3WX4Y	1416907106	925847499	The Rivers of Zadaa (Pendragon)	Books	5	37	40	N	N	An Amazing and Fun Read!	Ignore \\"School Library Journal's\\" totally untrue and blatant review.  \\"The Rivers of Zadaa\\" delivers.  MacHale once again had me on the edge of my seat in this new volume with suspense, action, drama ... and a little bit of romance.  Bobby Pendragon is on Loor's home territory of Zadaa where two enemy tribes, the Batu and the Rokador, are on the brink of war due to a devastating drought.  It is unclear to Bobby whether Saint Dane tinkered with Zadaa's turning point or whether the war was really meant to be.  The \\"Library Journal\\" was right about one thing and that's Bobby matures as a character in this volume.  Bobby isn't a character who uses fancy speech; he's walks, talks, and acts just like you and me and that's what makes the Pendragon series so enjoyable is the talent that MacHale has to fuse reality with fantasy and make his characters relatable to every kid out there.  This popular and just plain fun series got so much more exciting after this volume and it opened so much more mysterious questions (along with some amazing discoveries about the traveler's powers).  I for one cannot wait for book seven; The Quillian Games!	2005-07-14
US	49380736	R1RRF94EJZATV3	0060280921	703135449	Abarat	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A Fantastic Start to a Series Ruled by Imagination!	Clive Barker's first novel in his four part series, \\"Abarat\\" is a fantastic fantasy story for children and adults of all ages who might have enjoyed the classics such as the \\"Chronicles of Narnia\\" or \\"Alice in Wonderland\\".  It all starts with Candy Quackenbush who is bored with life in the small town of Chickentown, Minnesota.  One day, after running out of an embarrassing situation in school, Candy comes to a mysterious lighthouse in the middle of prairie and with the help of the  character of John Mischief (whose brothers all live on his antlers!)  Candy summons the sea of Mama Izabella and journeys to the fantastic land of the Abarat, where only the imagination is your limit.  But trouble awaits there where villains are anxious to get their hands on the mysterious girl who comes from the human world of the Hereafter.  \\"Abarat\\" accomplishes everything that high fantasy needs to have to be successful; believable and likeable main characters, scary villains, imagination, a wonderful world to explore, and magic!  Barker's talent for storytelling results in a wonderful new fantasy series that is worthy to be held in the categories with all of the other children classics.  The full color paintings and illustrations also painted by Barker are an added bonus to the story and they will draw you in even further to the adventures of Candy. This story is not to be missed and it is highly recommended fantasy!	2005-07-05
US	49380736	R14CYFQ6FP1V2K	0439546567	435757832	The Haunting Of Alaizabel Cray	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Deliciously intricate yet oh so creepy ...	Chris Wooding's award-winning \\"The Haunting of Alaizabel Cray\\" is a masterful gothic thriller aimed for teens that had me on the edge of my seat in horrified suspense and action.  Wooding creates in this novel an alternative Victorian London where 17-year old which-hunter, Thaniel Fox, must fight an apocalyptic evil known as the whych-kin.  It is on one of these hunts that Thaniel saves Alaizabel Cray, a lovely girl that happens to be possessed and holds the key to an evil occult's plans to take over the world.  Wooding is a master of suspense, creating scenes that will make you wince with glee and shudder in fear.  His characters are believable enough that you will root for them in their troubles and the plot is very intricate but not that much as so you won't become confused.  Not to be missed by those horror/gothic/mystery/thriller lovers out there.  I only recommended this book though to those above thirteen as there are light elements of horror, murder, the occult, and prostitution.  But, these somewhat grotesque themes do not take away from the sheer delight and suspense that I received as I read this book.  Not to be missed!	2005-06-18
US	49380736	R1FEL3LO6L4POF	0142402184	256191514	Public Enemy Number Two (Diamond Brother Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Brilliant Sequel to 'Falcon's Malteser'!	The second mystery in Anthony Horowitz's Diamond Brothers Series is just as good as the first one.  Nick gets framed for a jewel theft and he soon finds himself embroiled in grand plot involving public enemy number one, 15 year old Johnny Powers, and the England's master criminal, the Fence.  This adventure offers all of Nick's classic sarcasm, wit, and his quick-thinking which were most usefull in those sticky situations.  Again, Horowitz offers all of the same thrills and chills as he did in the first book and his wildly successful Alex Rider series.  The characters are entertaining, the situations thrilling, and the ending is simply unexpected.  A great second mystery in this series that is sure to be just as big as Alex Rider.  Highly recommended.	2005-06-06
US	49380736	REHCQC9UMLYR	0142402192	720452342	The Falcon's Malteser (Diamond Brother Mysteries)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Horowitz has struck gold again!	Having immensely enjoyed Horowitz's teenage superspy series, `Alex Rider' (and even going so far as ordering the two latest installments from England so I wouldn't have to wait as long as the rest of America) I was greatly looking forward to starting Anthony's new mystery series for kids.  Horowitz has struck gold once again and this is sure to be another popular series for teens who enjoy buckets loads of laughs, thrills, chills, and mystery.  Nick Diamond is a strong central character, whose quick wit, laugh-out-loud attitude and sarcasm will capture any kid's heart.  Horowitz just as in his `Alex Rider' series makes the villains and scary situations in this story realistic which is probably why he is such a popular author.  This book is a quick read, and is a great form of entertainment even for the most reluctant of readers. Highly recommended for all of those mystery buffs out there.	2005-05-31
US	49380736	RXO9Y3YV2PDW6	0786855819	101640935	Dragon Keeper	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Breathtakingly Brilliant Adventure!	`Dragon Keeper' is the U.S. debut novel by highly successful Australian author, Carole Wilkinson, that has already won many prestigious Australian awards.  It tells the wonderful story of a Chinese slave girl named Ping and her perilous journey to save the last imperial dragon, Long Danzi.  In the beginning, Ping is a slave for the cruel, current Dragon Keeper, who neglects his duties and in so doing so causes the death of the second to last imperial dragon.  In a startling amount of courage, Ping rescues Danzi and they set off for the Ocean which Danzi mysteriously insists on traveling to for the sake of a beautiful purple stone which he holds most important to the sake of all dragons.  Wilkinson is a master of words, painting amazing scenes and the emotions of Ping as effortlessly as the artists of the beautiful traditional Chinese pictures that don every chapter opening.  Ping was a three-dimensional, interesting main character.  She realistically makes and learns from her mistakes, and therefore by doing so is relatable to all readers.  The dragon Long Danzi was my favorite character.  His riddles of wisdom hold lessons that Ping must take importantly if she is to outwit the many villains that chase them throughout the course of the novel and they also provide comical relief.  Anyways, Ping's transition from a scared slave girl to the confident Dragon Keeper was a highly believable journey that left me on the edge of my seat. This novel is full of humor, lessons to be learned and shared, adventure, and sheer enjoyment that I'm sure it will also bring to eager readers everywhere.  Highly recommended.	2005-05-26
US	49380736	R19J1TJGB5DT52	0786852895	442293804	The Opal Deception (Artemis Fowl, Book 4)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	An Excellent 4th Adventure for Fowl Fans!	\\"The Opal Deception\\" marks the return of all of the favorite characters from Eoin Colfer's wildly popular sci-fi/fantasy series Artemis Fowl; which just happens to be a personal favorite of mine.  Opal Koboi, the psychotic pixie from the 'Artic Incident' escapes prison by cloning herself and is back to exact revenge for everyone who put her there; which includes the once again criminally active Artemis Fowl (who after the `Eternity Code' was mind-wiped and has no recollection of the People), the LEPrecon commander Holly Short, technical centaur whiz Foally, and Butler.  Opal's ingenious plan sets Holly Short up as an accused murderer of a fellow employee (don't want to ruin the tragic character death for anyone) and she must once again employ the help of Artemis Fowl and try to get him to regain his memories while at the same time try to outwit Opal Koboi.  Opal is a highly believable and entertaining villain.  What's most intriguing is she is possibly one of the most deadly female villains in recent children books history, and the craziest!  The adventure that soon follows is a rocketing high speed action romp full of high tech gadgets, surprises, witty dialogue, mind-bending plots, interesting characters, and a very satisfying conclusion.  The only problem with this story is when Artemis and Butler rediscover all of their fairy memories; they accepted them to be true just too quickly to keep the reader within the story and the plot moving along at a steady pace.  A little more heavy pondering about the faeries would have made me change my mind.  So that is the only reason why I bumped this story down one star.  Besides that minor flaw, Colfer's fourth Artemis adventure is as satisfying as always, leaving the reader desperately clamoring for the next adventure and left wondering if Artemis will finally go straight or if he will once again return to his criminal tendencies. And the epilogue doesn't help with answering this question!  (Hint ... hint ... \\"more to follow\\"!) This is highly recommended children fiction.	2005-05-18
US	49380736	R3BVYB8XYLS55M	0060577312	913173780	Magyk (Septimus Heap, Book 1)	Books	5	24	29	N	N	It's Magykal!	\\"Septimus Heap, Book One, Magyk\\" by Angie Sage is possibly one of the best children books to have come out this year.  With a colorful cast of fully drawn characters, creative plots, and pure imagination and control over her world, Sage takes her first plunge into the world of childrens' novels and succeeds wonderfully.  It's not the magic that makes Magyk such a great novel, it's the characters.  Readers will race along with the thoughts, emotions, and experiences of the quirky main characters of Jenna (a girl who just might be Queen), Boy 412 (a mysterious child from the young Army), Marcia (The very fashionable ExtraOrdinary Wizard), and Nicko (Jenna's brother and sailor).  There are so many other enjoyable characters that mentioning them all would just take too long.  My particular favorites are Boggart, Boy 412, and Marcia. The style of Angie Sage is truly enjoyable and endurable for all ages.  Her style really reminds me of another up-and-coming talent Anna Dale, who wrote the truly amazing story 'Whispering to Witches'.  If you enjoyed 'Magyk', you'll enjoy that book as well.  Anyways, will these characters ever stop the menacing necromancer DomDaniel from taking over the land?  And who is Septimus Heap (the mysterious title character who seems will never appear)?  Read this amazing novel to find out.  You will not be disappointed.	2005-05-07
US	49380736	R12Z27Q35K1SSL	1416900144	740970753	Pendragon (The Guide to the Territories of Halla )	Books	3	77	84	N	N	Interesting yet I feel ripped off!	This tiny guide was an interesting book that showed artwork on all of the major characters, objects, and territories and provided breif descriptions of their backgrounds, purposes, and functions from the very awesome Pendragon Series by D.J. Machale.  Each territory had a page that provided interesting information that was not known before; such as their currency, goegraphy, population, etc.  Each character had a brief overview and a portrait.  It was very neat to see some of my favirite characters depicted on the page.  Now on the negative side, MacHale has said that there are 10 territories, yet, the guide only covered the territories that the first five books center around!  The title does say the book is the 'Guide to the Territories of Halla' and somehow I feel slightly cheated as I was promised from the synopsis a full ride into Halla and yet I got sent home early before the trip ended.  On the plus side, we did learn the names of the mysterious last two territories!  So overall, I would give this somewhat flawed guide 3 stars for the cool artwork, - 2 stars for false advertisement. :(	2005-04-22
US	49380736	RWG9CJW1LS3DM	0439686261	881404796	The Icemark Chronicles #1: The Cry of the Icemark	Books	4	16	17	N	N	A Brilliant Debut Novel!	\\"The Cry of the Icemark\\" by Stuart Hill was a brilliant adventure/quest/coming of age story about the young princess Thirrin Freer Strong-In-The-Arm-Lindinshield of the small kingdom of the Icemark. Thirrin is a feisty heroine who never gives up when it comes to defending her country. Her beliefs and doubts about the upcoming war that she must face from the fierce Scipio Bellorum of the Polyponitian Empire are very believable and fuel most of her emotional parts of the story. The idea that Thirrin must travel to the land-of-the-ghosts to befriend werewolves, vampires, and giant snow leopards as her allies was very intriguing and were my favorite parts of the story (besides the amazing climax!). Thirrin must accomplish this daunting task with the help of my favorite character from the story, Oskan, a young warlock. Oskan was a different sidekick; he was Thirrin's royal adviser and treated her as no other person had treated her before. When you first meet him, he is a poor peon who did not care that Thirrin was a princess and treats her as any other person, maybe just what she needed. Oskan essentially shows the real person behind Thirrin's masked toughness which Hill conveys through most of the novel. Hill masterfully shows the real people and maturation behind these two young characters who must take on so much at such a young age. Overall, this story had some flaws of a first novel, such as somewhat bad pacing in the beginning; but the reward of Hill's rich descriptions, vivid characters and their emotions and developments as real people, and the sheer imagination and passion that Hill brought to his story and the lessons it shows such as bravery and never doubt yourself, encompass the spirit of this amazing first novel. I look forward to the next book from this talented new author.	2005-04-03
US	49380736	R3ALZL34O3CVT1	0060278250	962868136	Abhorsen (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	'Abhorsen' deserves more than 5 stars!	The 'Abhorsen Trilogy' by the brilliant Garth Nix is possibly the finest trilogy of ya fantasy out there to this date.  Although, the trilogy crosses the borders of ordinary fantasy which makes the trilogy so unique and loved by millions.  Nix does bring magic to his characters and does it realistically which makes reading about Lirael, Sam, The Disreputable Dog, and Mogget, so enjoyable and believable.  The desperate mission to stop the Destroyer that Lirael must force upon herself, after only shortly finding out about her new inheritance (don't want to ruin it for anybody) and her companions was a non-stop adventure full of drama, laughter, and grim adventures into the death!  In this last volume, Nix finally reveals the true nature of the mysterious Mogget and the loveable Disreputable Dog.  It was a bittersweet read, knowing that this would be the last book in this wonderful trilogy, but Nix gives you an unbelievable novel which encompasses every element of an amazing story that belongs to the even more amazing Abhorsen Trilogy!  I can only help but wonder if Nix has another book planned by the ending he offers, and I would read that book in a heartbeat!  This is highly recommended.	2005-03-13
US	49380736	R246880JP15QT1	1582348103	180374332	Faerie Wars (Faerie Wars Chronicles)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	The fantasy that could have been ...	Herbie Brennan's 'Faerie Wars' was an amazing read that transports readers from boring contemporary England to the dangerous and imaginative realm of the Faeries!  Everything all starts when Henry is cleaning for Mr. Fogarty and finds a fairy which is later revealed as Pyrgus in his faerie form.  After this find, readers became embroiled in an intricate plot involving these four vividly drawn out main characters;  <br />1) Henry Atherton, whose world falls apart after his parent's decision to separate.   <br />2) Mr. Fogarty (the grumpy old man who Henry cleans his house for so he can buy an MP3 player) who has a mysterious past and believes in faeries and ufo's ... Henry describes him as 'loony'.  <br />3) Pyrgus Malvae, the crown prince of the faerie realm who in the beginning of the book, is on the run from Faeries of the night and seeks refugee in Chalkhill and Brimstone's Glue Factory ... unfortunately for Prygus more danger awaits him there than the fairies who are chasing him! <br />4) And lastly the spunky princess (sister to Pyrgus) Holly Blue, who doesn't wait for her father's men to get information.  Blue is already on the verge of a career as a spy <br />These characters complicated stories all are intricately woven by Brennan, which makes for an amazing story full of suspense, magic, and science!  As Colfer endorses on the front cover, Brennan masterfully blends all three! <br />My only problem with the book was the whole affair that involves Henry's mother being a lesbian.  The reason is not that it was inappropriate for a story clearly meant for children (even though I found this in the young adult section.  But, no matter what section it is in, the front cover endorsement by Colfer is going to attract younger readers, so this is obviously not appropriate for younger children).  The reason is because the whole concept proved to be unnecessary for the overall story.  It was never explained why Henry's mother had to have a lesbian affair.  The whole affair didn't expose Henry to something that eventually helped solve another problem.  Henry was already cleaning for Mr. Fogarty when he ran out of the house after learning about the affair, so he would've found Pyrgus affair or not!  And for this reason is why I gave this amazing story that could have been great only 3 stars. :(  <br />  But, if you ignore the fact of the whole lesbian affair situation, Brennan skillfully conveys magic, mystery, an intricate murder plot, amazing characters, science, and suspense, which all adds up to one amazing read!  I eagerly await to plunge back into this world and revisit these characters in 'The Purple Emperor'.  I really hope to learn about the mysterious Prince Comma, for not much is explained of him in this book that I would have liked to know.   <br />Warning; parents concerned about this book, it should be only recommended for children above the age of 13.  <br />	2005-02-25
US	49380736	RM4IVO3PAX9BT	0786851481	480141076	The Supernaturalist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Colfer invades the sci-fi genre!	Eoin Colfer had always been one of my favorite authors ever since I read his Artemis Fowl series.  Naturally I was intrigued to read 'The Supernaturalist' when it first came out ... but I was still wary of the book seeing as it was obviously going to be different from Artemis Fowl.  But, I was happily rewarded with a highly gripping novel that has you twisting corners and testing your wits on every word.  Cosmo Hill, a no-sponsor, escapes the horrible clutches of the Clarissa Frayne orphanage, only to be rescued by a vigilante gang that call themselves the supernaturalists, who fight the suposedly evil parsites which suck the life force out of dying humans.  The city the supernaturalists patrol was truly a horrid creation by Colfer, and by horrid I mean truly saddening for the characters who live in it.  Chemical smog covers the city, and rain becomes even hard enough to ruin cars!  The setting of course only fitted perfectly with the morbid theme of good fighting against an apocalyptic evil.  The colorful cast were all vividly drawn, having histories that all contributed to their point of view and motives.  Colfer tests his characters beliefs with twisting plot turns that kept me glued to the page.  He offers excitement, humor, and most of all, action in this exciting new novel.  It may be different from Artemis Fowl, but Colfer was at his best in this new genre, and I hopefully await a sequel which seems highly probable.	2005-02-17
US	49380736	RP1WOAAH6PIGM	0439551234	361348146	Mister Monday (Keys to the Kingdom, Book 1)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Another Escape from the regular genre provided by Nix!	Garth Nix's 'Mister Monday' was a highly clever, creative, and entertaining read that had me up into the wee hours of the morning following Arthur's adventures in the House.  Arthur Penhaligon was a believable hero who after strange creatures called Fetchers bring a sleeply plague to his town, with his newly acquired key, Arthur must venture into the mysterious House that only he can see to save his town.  Obviously, Nix wrote this book for a younger audience so his writing wasn't as ... mature as it was in his brilliant Abhorsen trilogy.  But the sheer imagination Nix brings to this book more than makes up for it.  The intricate world of the House was highly entertaing and origional and Nix stuns me every time he writes a new story.  'Mister Monday' has everything a hugely popular series needs, loveable characters, a complex plot, and buckets loads of creativity.  'Grim Tuesday' is certainly going on my wish list!	2005-02-10
US	49380736	RY3BSJXIMN2HX	0385730551	836694122	The Book of Dead Days	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A dark novel that explores the grim side of fate!	Marcus Sedgwicks' novel, The Book of Dead Days, was a very interesting read that I throughouly enjoyed.  The novel is set in an eerie setting of a decaying city where civilized life is uncommon and mystery is abound.  Sedgwick amazingly conveys the dark, unsettling tone and medieval setting of the city.  Through beatuiful language, he creates a dark world where you have the feeling that something unsettling always lurks in the deepest corners of an unexplored alleyway.  The three main characters were vividly imagined, the most complex being the unpleasant magician Valerian, who's mysterious past and deal with evil keeps you reading impatiently till the middle of the book.  Boy, Valerian's servant, is a boy with no name, history or past, but his purpose to Valerian is revealed in the end and his true feelings that he's been hiding for years emerges in the final climax.  Willow on the other hand, the young girl who befriends boy in the beginning after her terrifying experience in the theatre, was somewhat unenjoyable.  Sedgwick used her to ask way, and I mean, way too many questions which reveal the bulk of the mystery.  When she wasn't asking questions and you get a view into her past, Willow does become somewhat believable and you find yourself becoming sympathetic.  Overall, this book was an amazing read that transports you to some of the deepest, decaying parts of your imagination.  My only disappointment were all the questions left unanswered which I hope will be answered in book 2.  The fact of the phantom, Korp and Green's murders, and who did kill them for what reasons were all left unsolved but were all brought up in the end which gives me hope and anticipation for book 2.	2005-01-29
US	49380736	R2QCOP3G5CKPUY	0060005424	895619710	LIRAEL: Daughter of the Clayr (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An amazing sequel to Sabriel!	I was so eager to delve back into the world of the Old Kingdom that when my copy of Lirael arrived in the mail in the form of a Christmas present from my grandmother, I was desperate to get a hold of it.  After a day of begging four days before Christmas, my mother reluctantly shook her head in a \\"yes\\" and I dashed to the present and then ran upstairs and locked myself in my room. Garth Nix once again amazes me at his storytelling abilities.  Lirael was a fully realized character full of desperate wants that ultimately will not be filled.  The intricate plot once again was ingenious, preluding events to come in the slightest bits of foreshadowing. The magic is so real and somewhat dangerous, the plot superb, and the world as solid as the charter itself.  I have a slight feeling of melancholy as I put off reading Abhorsen, the last title of this breathtaking trilogy, wishing that it would never end.  Garth nix offers a tale that reassures your feeling that your are in for a tale of destiny, magic, and wonderful entertainment.  Lirael is true winner, a worthy sequel to the excellent Sabriel, and it met and exceded my every want and need.	2005-01-13
US	49380736	R1S2VNR0MYYF9S	0064471837	962868136	Sabriel (Old Kingdom)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	An amazing breath of origional air!	I don't know why it took me nine years to discover this amazing novel written by the absolutely brilliant Garth Nix!  From the first page, I was joyfully absorbed in the world of the Old Kingdom, necromancy, and the dead.  Garth NIx has truly created an unforgettable world full of believable characters, situations, and an interesting form of magic called charter magic.  The writing has it's own subtle touch of origionality, and Garth Nix gives you the feeling that your in good hands and are in for a good read.  The plot was superb, amazingly constructed, and I can say with authority that is one of the finest YA novels out there to this date. I must now eagerly wait for my copy of Lirael to arrive!	2004-12-18
US	49380736	RNX0HEUQ7ZS93	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	3	6	11	N	N	Well written but heavily needs an editor!	I bought this book from the high reviews it has recieved and the plot sounded very creative and intriguing.  But, as I soon learned, no matter how creative a story is, the story needs to be paced well and shouldn't make the reader be thinking about the other unread books waiting for them on their shelf.  I read about seventy pages through and the book failed to contain my interest.  Although, I will give Clarke credit, for her writing style is very enjoyable and her characters are very believable, but still, the book needed a an editor very heavily.  The story was slow to get started and the beginning was just a long drawl.  Hopefully, the freind that is going to recieve this book will enjoy it better than I did.	2004-11-26
US	49380736	R297JT46IB48IF	0399241515	774216249	Scorpia (An Alex Rider Adventure)	Books	5	12	17	N	N	What a great book!	I ordered this book from England before summer and read it on our family trip during the summer break.  Horowitz combines in this Alex Rider tale much emotion and I really felt Alex come alive as a character to his full extent.  Two thumbs up for the action, drama, excellent plot, and the climatic ending that almost could have you in tears.  Also, I would just like to thank Anthony Horowitz (who like J.K. Rowling) really showed in this book that not everything or everyone is always going to be portrayed as black or white (good or bad).  There are some gray characters in Scorpia and that only made me appreciate Horowitz's skills all the more.  And don't worry Horowitz fans, book six in the Alex Rider series is available from England in May 2005!	2004-11-23
US	49380736	R1GJBTVHMMLBJM	0064410145	681127066	The Grim Grotto (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 11)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A wonderful new edition to this Unfortunate Series!	I still don't see why some reviewers are giving the Grim Grotto anything less than 5 stars!  The story as always was written in the beloved Lemony Snicket's grim humor.  I found the water cycle tied in to the story very creative and if you read it to the end, the readers will realize just how much the Baudelaire's lives really resemble the water cycle!  Surprisingly, Snicket teaches a very important and mature lesson, that not everything is always seen as black or white, but sometimes people are percieved as gray (or a tossed chef's salad!)  I found that lesson to be very important for the story and I congratulate Snicket for wanting to make the story mature along with the Baudelaires as well.  Snicket once again weaves an intricate story full of interesting characters, miracalous adventures, humor, and above all else, creativity.  The Grim Grotto is an excellent addition to the series giving us more questions surrounding V.F.D and leaving the reader eagerly wanting Book the Twelfth!	2004-11-23
US	49380736	R2V2SWRY2GN8DZ	1582348901	734509199	Whispering To Witches	Books	5	11	11	N	N	What A Delightful Read for The Young at Heart!	I can still not get over how much I enjoyed this magical mystery that was packed full of delightful characters, witches, magic, and a very well-plotted story.  The cover caught my attention and I wasn't expecting much from it, but from the very first page, I was hooked on Joe Bink's adventure.  I won't give away much on the plot (that's what the book synopsis is for!) but I'll tell you what I enjoyed the most;   The setting was perfect for the story; christmastime in a small english village, just right for a story about magical witches.  The author plants her clues and the story was very well constructed.  Also, the author doesn't insult older readers by using childish language.  I got through it quite easily without being disappointed by lack of a mature writing style.  I look forward to reading Anna Dale's next book and I hope that it is the sequel to Whispering to Witches.  Overall, I give this book a 10/10!  If you're a fan of Harry Potter (or a fan of good stories in general), I highly reccomend this book for it is just as magical and yet so very different and origional!	2004-11-16
US	49380736	RPXEWJ11Z936U	0439531640	208757740	Inkheart	Books	5	2	5	N	N	The Book for Book Lovers!	Cornelia Funke's (the master storyteller) Inkheart is nothing other than an amazing piece of LITERATURE.  Unlike most cardboard children's books, Funke writes a believable world in which a magical father, Mo, can read out characters from his literate young daughter, Meggie's, favorite books.  The writing is superb in this book, and the illustrations drawn by Ms. Funke herself only add to the enjoyment of the book.  The cast of characters are memorable, ecspecially Dustfinger and Aunt Elanor, which happen to be my favorite characters.  Magical creatures, memorable characters, an evil villian, and magnificent language, what more could you want from an amazing story?   I for one cannot wait for Inkblood, the next book in the trilogy!  Thank you Cornelia Funke!	2004-11-06
US	49380736	R17LHA6PP0ILUK	0803729847	597081250	Lionboy: The Chase	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A HUGE step up from the First Book!	The second Lionboy book from the trilogy, Lionboy: The Chase, I have to say was a major step up from the first book, Lionboy.  The dialogue was smoother, the plot was much more interesting and held my attention much better, and the characters are even more memorable.  My new favorite character has to be Sergei, the rangy North English feline who has a very peculiar accent and very funny, dry humor.  I don't like to give much away on the plot of books, but here it goes.  The only reason that I didn't give this book five stars is that in the beginning, when Charlie is trapped in the Palazzo Bulgaria, this whole segment of the book and meeting the Bulgarian King and Edward seems quite pointless and doesn't further the plot.  But, after this rough segment of the book, you finally find out what allergenies are and what Primo the mysterious cat is there for. My only nag is that most of the time in Venice (from the reader's point of view) seemed completely pointless in furthering the plot. Now, on to the ending.  At first for the ending, I was almost screaming no because it was only the 2nd book in the trilogy and how could it have such a happy, kiddish ending where everything turns out great.  Well, to my happiness, it doesn't!  The last paragraph is the most tantalizing thing that Zizou Corder has offered in this book other than those cruel, last three words ; to be continued ...   <br />I cannot wait for the 3rd book in this rising series!	2004-11-04
US	49380736	RZ2HBQ9JLOZKK	0142402265	597081250	Lionboy (Lionboy, Book 1)	Books	3	10	12	N	N	A great adventure story!  Although, some flaws!	Let me start off, no book is ever perfect.  This book was a great adventure story!  Charlie Ashanti is a truly believable character and the cats and people he encounters are truly rememborable.  But, there are some flaws in some parts. A) It seems to be poorly written during some parts of the book.  No don't get me wrong, the story and the plot are very creative and orgional (I won't give to much away), but, it seems that some sentences were written by the young child rather than the mother's more mature style of writing.  B) Sometimes the dialogue seems a bit rough and childish between the villan, R.S., and not really villiany (don't know if that's a word?) at all.  Although, I'm currently reading the second adventure in the series and it seems like a huge step up from the first; written better, more epic descriptions and memorable characters.  All I can say about this rising series is watch out Harry Potter!	2004-10-20
US	49380736	R1TT5SDXRXHMXF	0689869118	668281983	Black Water (Pendragon #5)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	Amazing!	The fifth installment in the Pendragon series was an amazing edition.  This could be my new favorite installment, shunning out the never war as number one.  MacHale goes farther into the fantasy area in this book (these books are a cross between sci-fi and fantasy), the territory of Eelong was a lot different than the other territories. ;)  The territory is very unique and I congratulate MacHale's imagination.  The only problem with the book and why I gave it only four stars was that the plot (though not greatly) resembled the plot of The Lost City of Faar just a little bit too much.  But yet, both books are immensely different.  And, wow, what an ending; suspenseful, sad,and yet still have you hanging on the edge of your seat waiting eagerly for the sixth book!	2004-08-22
