US	49395242	R2BZK4BFNXJ3TA	0060969164	204629968	The Darkness Around Us is Deep: Selected Poems of William Stafford	Books	3	20	25	N	Y	Poems of Amazing Human being	There is a reason why William Stafford is on almost every graduate writing program's reading list.  Not only did he write what is considered to be the best poem written in the second half of the 20th Century, his entire body of work speaks of the human condition which immediately draws in the reader.<br />Not having the honor of meeting William Stafford in person, I have to settle for reading his poems and listening to the stories about him, told by those who did know him.  This leads to the one fault I can find with this book, for the poetry within is so complete, so warm.  Unfortunately my one complaint is quite serious.<br />My only disappointment in this book is the quality of the paper used.  The paper feels and looks like cheap pulp---which would suggest that the publishers don't have the same care of William Stafford's poetry that most readers do.  Unfortunately, we readers are caught in a hard place.  Many of his books are out of print and we are limited to collections such as these.  My advice is to seek out some of the original editions.  <br />I give the poetry Five stars, but I have to give the book itself a three because of the production values	2002-10-17
US	49395242	R248QPXH6FDRMQ	0935626360	589450791	Old Shirts & New Skins (Native American, No 9)	Books	5	6	9	N	Y	A real role Model for writers	For a long time I heard little bits and pieces about a poet named Sherman Alexie.  I would see his name appear here and there, or a few words speak of him, and then I would lose track.  After Smoke Signals came out, I vowed that I would remember Sherman Alexie and read more of what he had to say.<br />Years passed, to my shame.  As a writer I was probably afraid on some level to begin reading his work because I had heard of his amazing success at a young age, but more important, his amazing output.<br />I finally decided to get a book, and I chose to buy Old Shirts &amp; New Skins.  I absolutely love it.  The poems and the stories wonderfully compliment each other and tell a story of identity and pride.  I really enjoyed the biting humor. it rang so completely true, I sometimes could not contain myself.<br />Based upon what I have read in this book, I will definately keep reading and buying his books.	2002-10-17
US	49395242	RLBAAQJ6LUKW4	0393318540	285805115	The Disuniting of America: Reflections on a Multicultural Society (Revised and Enlarged Edition)	Books	5	62	69	N	Y	A Must Read for Those in the Social Sciences	This book is one of the most compelling reads of non-fiction I have ever come across.  Without a doubt, this is one of few books I found of real use in college, and I continue to read and reflect upon it to this day.  In fact, I would call this book essential for any social studies curriculum.<br />Arthur Schlesinger takes the issues of a new PC nation and puts them into real perspective.  He is both pro-culture and pro-heritage, but he stands against the idea that cultural identity means a seperation of the American People.  Taking on a myriad of topics, Schlesinger explains with great simplicity, straight-forwardness, and honesty how multi-culturalism can be taken too far, taken to absurd conclusions.  Essentially, Schlesinger is letting us know that not everything is best when it is presented through the eyes of multi-culturalism.<br />I read the book in a single sitting.  Once I started to read, I was drawn in more and more.  Even if you don't agree with his premise, Schlesinger writes in such a way that there is no ambiguity to what he is saying.  Knowing Schlesinger's politics for some may make this all the more shocking, but I have to ask those who oppose the message of this book whether they are upset that he is saying these things in general, or if they are upset because a &quot;liberal&quot; is saying these things.<br />In my opinion this book is of critical importance to understand the second half of the 20th century in America.	2002-04-23
US	49395242	R1F1WCJ0FWDYF5	0918786509	116743892	The Battlefield Where the Moon Says I Love You	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	A book that has haunted me	I have been waiting to get this book for over 10 years, and it is well worth the wait I endured!<br />I first read Frank Stanford and an exerpt from The Battlefield when I purchased the Before Columbus Foundation American Book Award Anthology. I was immediately captured by the immense narrative form that I found. I later bought The Light the Dead See and was amazed yet again. Upon finally getting my hands on this book I can say without a doubt that I am in love with the words of Frank Stanford.<br />The new edition is not 542 pages long, but this is a result of the enlarged book format that the publishers chose. However, the poem is a single, 15,000+ line stanza of poetry that can seem most daunting any way you look at it. What got me going is my anticipation. I just dove into the book and didn't look back.<br />Within the narrative, you find Francis, who is an amazing guide through a rural, Southern landscape, filled with adventure and figurative language that at times cause me to catch my breath. Francis narrates from both an observational and personal point of view, and it is up to the reader to catch up with him. At times he is telling you what happened to him, what he heard about someone else, what he was/is dreaming, and what he plans on doing.<br />The text is full of allusions and references to other epic stories. Francis and the events and people who surround him culminate with these allusions into an Epic for the modern reader. At times the writing looks too unorganized to be an epic, but this is not the case. I am convinced that Stanford knew what he was doing every single line and word of the way. This truly is poetry with every line a composition in itself.<br />At every turn of the page there is a new secret, a new wonderful discovery to be found. I urge you to read this book and help to re-discover a lost American poet. I was so impressed, I bought a second copy as a gift and would not hesitate to do so again for the right person.	2002-03-13
US	49395242	R3ERI8I8U4BY3B	0321012542	420218883	The Complete Works of Shakespeare (4th Edition)	Books	5	34	37	N	N	Essential  and Readable	As of late I have seen some pretty strong arguments for reading Shakespeare (even if he really didn't write everything attributed to him).  Most of my recent reasons have to do with my teaching high school English.<br />For my sophomores, it is Julius Caesar, and for my seniors, it is Hamlet.  Having the need to read along with the students from a second text, I always reach for my Bevington Edition.  I like having a second text available, but more importantly, I love having such a comprehensive discussion of Shakepeare at hand each time the moment arises(rare as they are) that a question comes up either during the reading or discussion.  The Bevington edition serves me well whenever I teach Shakespeare because I can easily find important information quickly.<br />I also like the fact that the text is modernized in spelling, presented in a clean and legible font, while keeping an academic presentation in mind.  For me this simply means I can read it for enjoyment as well as for teaching purposes easily and without any real problems.<br />I also like the way that the plays are organized.  with many of the other complete editions I have owned throughout the years, chronological order gets to be a bother.<br />Now, I am no real scholar, but I have acted in several college level and other post-educational setting productions of Shakespeare, and from an actor's point of view the Bevington edition scores well again.<br />If you are deep into scholarly persuits I am certain you can find flaws within the Bevington edition, as could be found by any expert in any edited literary text.  However, as far as an all-round, readable, and informative version of the complete works of Shakespeare (or whoever REALLY wrote all the plays etc.) the Bevington edition has my vote as the best one I have yet to see.	2002-03-07
US	49395242	RICJYWKMW588F	0910296154	881206929	Poems from Prison.	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	The Power of Poetry	I first read Etheridge Knight by way of the Before Columbus Foundation American Book Awards Anthology.  When I finally got hold of this magnificient book I was floored by the spare style that cut me to the bone.  ...To tht I can add a bit of my own awe and respect for Knight and his poetry.  I use his Poems From Prison as a text for creative writing.  I have every one of my poetry students write their own poem based upon his \\"Idea of Ancestry,\\" attempting to show the connections he made with his self, family, and situation.  <br />Quite simply, there is an honesty and power in this book that you cannot escape... <br />Aside from the poetic value of these poems, for they really are wonderful examples of the varied devices that poets use in their writing, is the wonderful social commentary they make on some very serious issues.  Black, White, Hispanic, (whatever) can learn from this book and make connection with most if not all of the poetry within it.	2002-02-27
US	49395242	RJA6VYFVKZS78	0375503803	332508756	Sailing Alone Around the Room: New and Selected Poems	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Marvelous Poetry	I bought this book at the recommendation of Dave Lee, and I haven't been more pleased with a book of poetry since I first read Gary Short or Yusef Komunyakaa.  This book is my current constant companion.  I can't speak highly enough of it.  Simply beautful and simply astounding.<br />These collected and new poems by our current Poet Laureate are the poems that you have always heard echoing in the recesses of your mind, now fully articulated by an external voice.  And what a voice!  Billy Collins deserves praise for this wonderful book on that point alone.<br />Billy, as one reviewer in the dust cover notes, draws us in with humor to deeper, more significant moments of life.  Each poem is in itself a treat that at first appears simple, but winds up being a vast ocean of thought.<br />My favorite poems include &quot;Shoveling Snow With  Buddha&quot; and &quot;Marginalia.&quot;  In my opinion, Billy Collins represents the best of American poetry with the same importance as William Stafford and William Carlos Williams.  I am certain you will feel the same way after you read this book.	2002-02-13
US	49395242	R11OWAKD6OVWRY	0393312046	641309838	Tape for the Turn of the Year	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A New Year's Poem	This book length poem was written with several things in mind.  First, the title is literal.  Ammons wanted to write a poem confined in length and width by composing the entire poem on a roll of adding machine tape, and the result was a diary of the last part of one year and the beginning of another.<br />Ammons seems to be at very ease with the notion of composing poetry, bringing forth an informal voice, probably a necessary step for such a long poem with such a purpose, and draws in the reader with a confidence that is refreshing.  he breaks down the structure of the poem and uses deceptively simple, and straight forward language to mark the passing of time.  Broken by days, Ammon expresses the essence of the poet's mind, allowing for the day's mood to dictate not only tone, but length and scope within the writing.  <br />I feel very at home with this poem.  I feel like sitting in a rocker with some classical piano music in the background whenever I open this book.  I only regret that  cannot find time to read this book as often as I would like.  Re-released to coincide with Ammon's book, Garbage, Tape for the turn is a wonderful book with quite a few quiet revelations that will keep you thinking all day long.	2002-02-08
US	49395242	R1WPZQBZV1MCK8	9626340037	655343360	Frankenstein (Classic Literature with Classical Music)	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	A great reading, retaining the essence of the story	I bought this recording so that I could introduce my seniors to the Romantics and I really am pleased.  The actors who portray the main characters all do an excellent job bringing to life a book that could very well be hampered by the limitations of audio.<br />Also, it was nice to show my students that their concept of Frankenstein is decidedly not the real story.  The recording does a wonderful job of reflecting the major philosophical statements that Mary Shelley wanted to express to the reader.<br />If you are going to share this with a class, it would be a good idea to connect the ideas of education, as well as the Promethian connection.  Not only does the story make a connection between Frankenstein and the daemon's education, it provides a connection between Shelley's education and that of the daemon's.  I feel that one of the strong points of the book is the feminine interpretation of education (not necessarily a feminist viewpoint of education). It is important to expose high school students to women writers who express strong ideas and transcend diaries and letters to their daughters.<br />That said, I have two minor complaints:<br />1:  The audio level is not evenly balanced.  I found myself turning up the volume to allow my students to hear the important dialogue and turning it down because the voices were instantly too loud.  Alone this would not be a problem, but in groups it certainly was.<br />2.  While the music fit the mood of the story, there wasn't enough of it for my taste.  I would have liked a bit more to punctuate some important moments.<br />If you want to listen to this alone, while sitting quietly, this is a wonderful experience.  However, if you want to have a group to listen, be prepared for volume problems.  Essentially this is a really good abridgment and reading, but the sound is a bit troublesome.	2002-02-08
US	49395242	R63LDJOF80663	1563050757	99692800	The Boomer Bible	Books	5	7	8	N	Y	Great Fun for everyone	As a history major, I truly believe that the &quot;Book of Yanks&quot; is the funniest and one of the most revealing versions of American History that I have ever come across in my readings.  Not only does it reveal our shortcomings as a nation in a satirical way, it shows us how we came by our defects and our misadventures.  <br />I also have to mention the Book of Dave as one of the greates treatments of American Pop Culture that I have ever seen.  I would rate the Book of Dave right up there with the films of John Waters and David Lynch inasmuch as what they do to try and explain American Pop Culture.<br />Anyone who has a healthy sense of humor, believes that everyone is basically too full of themselves, and knows peope who take themselves too seriously, need to read this book.  However, if YOU take yourself too seriously, or think that there can only be one bible, take a sedative and skip this book.	2002-01-14
US	49395242	R2XR0BB9QU2AE3	0918786428	637650503	Conditions Uncertain and Likely to Pass Away (Lost Roads)	Books	4	6	9	N	Y	Stories that sing	For those unaware of Frank Stanford, unkowing of who he was, this collections of short stories has the potential to mis-lead.  While I love the stories within this collection, I am not sure that this book is the best introduction to the work of Frank Stanford.  That said, I recommend this collection to anyone who is familiar with Frank Stanford.  This volume fleshes out a picture that is amazingly incomplete and too unknown.	2001-08-07
US	49395242	R2LUQ5KJ5LNHTZ	0819512117	424456940	Neon Vernacular: New and Selected Poems (Wesleyan Poetry Series)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	One of my favorite books	While I can't agree with the clinical nature of the previous review, I do agree that this book is truly great.  However, I would not put Komunyakaa on my list of best African-American Poets,  he is simply one of the best poets writing today. As good as Frank Stanford ever was. Truth be told I am wondering when it will be his turn to be names U.S. Poet Laureate.  I fully expect him to receive the Nobel Prize.<br />Now about the book: I have been actively searching out Komunyakaa ever since I saw his poem, &quot;Troubling the Waters.&quot;  When I bought Neon Vernacular some years ago I put everything else away because Neon Vernacular was the only thing worth looking at for months.  Now, I find myself reading &quot;Songs for My Father&quot; over and over.  I even wroe a poem based upon &quot;Starlight Scope Myopia&quot; from Dien Cai Dau.  Simply put,  Yusef Komunyakaa is the one living writer I most want to meet with and talk poetry.	2001-05-19
US	49395242	R366JKBZPWVQVG	039914563X	225323965	The Bear and the Dragon	Books	1	5	6	N	N	The cover looks, well . . . um, o.k.	Just a few quick words and then I am outa here:<br />1)  For years Clancy has been eating away at me with his favoritism of Ph.D.'s over Master's over Bachelor's over no degree.  Clancy has always ignored the enlisted man, and any use of them is reserved for those who go on to receive a doctorate from M.I.T.  Until now that would be my only real gripe.  It was a complaint that I was almost always willing to overlook, because as you know, every enlisted man in the military goes on to get a Doctrate and work as a consultant for the DOD, at least I and all of my friends did.<br />2) I found myself skipping forward to the one of how many plot lines(?) I even wanted to keep reading.<br />3)  We all know you are busy, Tom, but why did you even bother with this one?  Ryan would have been much better off stepping down and letting the democratic process run its course---much more believable, too.  Especially that part about staying behind for the emolation of Washington D.C.  Next time it will probably be aliens or some terrible subterranean monster.  But then again, those movies have already been made.<br />4) I have always known that Clancy books depend somewhat on serendipity and chance, but talk about pulling the Quantum needle out of the Relativity haystack,  we have a better shot of discovering the secret to cold fusion than all of the elements of this novel have finding each other.  Refer to Mark Twain's essay, Fenimore Cooper's Litarary Offenses  in regards to the possibility of miracles in fiction.<br />5) Perhaps Tom's next book can send the boys from Rainbow to find the purpose of writing this book, besides a paycheck.	2001-02-17
US	49395242	RJC3GWYSCT6N9	0967354005	93852017	Teen.com Book of Poetry, Volume 1	Books	1	4	4	N	Y	Restating the obvious	I know that I am opening up myself for further criticism, knocking a book of poetry written by teenagers, but once again I have to go with my conscience on this one.<br />1) Many people (the authors of this book included) feel that if it rhymes, it is a poem. That notion is wrong.<br />2) As Hart Crane said, poetry consists of Figurative language. Metaphor, simile, metonomy, etc. etc.<br />3) By saying these things I am NOT denying the feelings that inspired the writing in this book. I am merely trying to say to the readers that this book has the potential to mislead as to the craft of writing.<br />My original intent, as I stated in a previous review was to use this book to help teach a high school creative writing class, but I was deeply disappointed by the editor's choices. I found that I could only use the book to show what I wanted my students to surpass in their own writing. Simply put, I believe that the editor, by not being more selective, has performed a dis-service to young poets by not challenging them to try and improve their art. In addition, by buying into an unfortunate myth about poetry (that all you need to write a poem is rhyme), the editor may have unknowingly turned down poetry that uses figurative language and in doing so, showed some true promise.<br />Further down the review list you will see people reviewing the book as great based upon their inclusion in the book. Every one of the writer/authors in the book have reason to be proud, for being published is a surprising honor each and every time it happens. But reader and included author alike need to be aware that inclusion in this book, does not necessarily mean that what is being read is poetry.<br />I know what I am saying is unpopular, and most everyone will say that my review isn't helpful, but then again, perhaps someone will look elsewhere to find good poetry written by young people.	2001-02-10
US	49395242	R3QEOM38O3W39C	0767902890	852411699	The Things They Carried	Books	5	316	330	N	Y	A Masterpiece	I was first introduced to this book as part of a U.S. &amp; Vietnam History course in college.  The other novel the course required was The Quiet American by Graham Greene.  Tim O'Brien's book is every bit as good as Greene's, and all the more timely.<br />As a former soldier, and a veteran of Desert Storm, whose father avoided the draft during the Vietnam War, the book taught me that no matter what other people say about the war, no matter what I learn, I can never make any value judgements on an individual level.  I was not there, and for better or worse, I am only a specator.<br />I am currently re-reading the book, which I often use in teaching my creative writing class.  I share the story-chapter, &quot;Style&quot; every year with my students.  I also find the book essential to learn about the nature of fiction, which O'Brien challenges with every page of this book.<br />For anyone looking for a book to read on the Vietnam experience, this book makes my short list every time.  Not only of &quot;Vietnam&quot; books, but of any book worth reading.  This book is simply essential.	2001-02-09
US	49395242	R3P9SVHSDEUZ36	0140250948	236604486	In the Lake of the Woods	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant!---Pushing the limits	I read this book because of The things They Carried and I am a better writer and reader for it.  Not only does this book present some of the most haunting suppositions in fiction, it takes on the issue of guilt and redemption with a modern brilliance.<br />As a writer I was blown away bu what O'Brien was able to accomplish with the novel form.  As a reader I was amazed at the depth of this story and the sense that there is something beneath us all still troubled and unsettled by the Vietnam war.  When reading Lake of the Woods I was struck with the sense that there was some unspoken communication between O'Brien and Yusef Komunyakaa.  The two seem to approach their subject matter from the same perspective.<br />Take the time to read this book.  If not for the wonderfully troubling subject matter, for the new idea of fiction that you will be treated to by turning each page.	2001-02-09
US	49395242	RZ867MNXX11QZ	0374301921	293926153	Albert And The Angels	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	A joyful experience for one and all	I have been waiting for this book to arrive for more than two years.  Ever since I heard Leslie Norris read it along with his poetry I have waitied and waited for this book to be here so that I could read it at my family Christmas party.  Unlike so many other things, my memory did not overshadow the real experience when the book finally arrived.  After seeing the illustrations and reading the book for myself, I can forgive the publishers for the many delays I was made to endure.  I read with renewed astonishment the wonderful prose of Leslie Norris telling the story of Albert trying to get his mother a special gift for Christmas.  I fell in love with children's stories once again.<br />Once every now and then, a book comes along that you are just dying to share with your friends and family.  This is such a book.  Norris has a beautiful ear for the way children speak and an amazing imagination to see things the way children must.  I say this because it is remarkable how close his words come to the way my own son speaks and plays.<br />Albert and the Angels makes you believe in a world of magic and inspiration.  The words and the illustrations make for a wonderful evening with your children.  I cannot praise this book enough, so you will have to see for yourself what I am talking about.	2000-10-10
US	49395242	R1RUCS8TM4VG87	0446313645	777201587	Fear and Loathing: On the Campaign Trail '72	Books	5	4	4	N	N	For thos of you who are about to read, we salute you!	Rock and Roll, baby, Rock and Roll.<br />For anyone trying to catch a glimpse of the madness that was the early 1970's, read this book.  Everyone was in the Wasteland of what the 1960's had wrought and this book takes you to that very place where people from both sides were getting over the burn.<br />The first time I read this book, it was a light coming on and it gets more to my liking every time I return.  Hunter S. Thompson is the Original Outlaw Journalist, and after opening this book it won't take you very long to find out why.<br />A few reviews down the list, ashleyrosebud  misses the entire point of what Hunter Thompson was trying to do.  She longs for the drug induced prose of Fear &amp; Loathing in Las Vegas, and propbably has nostalgic feelings for &quot;Where the Buffalo Roam,&quot; starring Bill Murray as Dr. Thompson.  The truth is, &quot;Capaign Trail '72&quot; is what gonzo journalism is all about.  The truth is you owe it to yourself to read this version of politics, this tale of madness and insanity that was the 1972 election, and what I can honestly say to be the best political writing I have ever read.	2000-10-10
US	49395242	R3Y77F6G5FLA0	0874172853	183742608	Flying Over Sonny Liston: Poems (Western Literature Series)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	A book to learn by	Having Gary Short's previous book, Theory of Twilight,  I would have bought this book anyway, but I had no idea how much it would teach me about writing.  This book is astounding.  I love the open style of this book.   While you can immediately tell that the subject matter is highly personal,  each poem is accessable and seems to invite the reader to see Mr. Short's  point of view.  It is also important to note that this book is not just  good poetry, it is well crafted poetry.  Anyone wanting a truly marvelous  experience with a book of poems should get this book.	2000-08-02
US	49395242	R3I74NIHVU6NF8	0399142363	149638527	Into the Storm: A Study in Command	Books	4	4	4	N	N	True Insight Into the Gulf War	With Into The Storm, Tom Clancy brings to the public a very necessary study of the unique qualities of Operation Desert Storm.  As the First of an intended five books on the subject, Mr. Clancy decides on a successful  format to tell the story of a war that surprised soldier and spectator  alike.<br />By discussing the military career of General Franks, and having  the general contribute to the book, Tom Clancy provides an effective  picture of how the events of the Gulf War unfolded.  Some may criticize the  inclusion of General Franks' military career as filler, but I see it as an  insightful and key element if we are to fully understand what really  happened.  What makes the man does contribute to what made this war.<br />I am  a veteran of the Gulf War, and when I heard about this book being written I  was truly excited.  I saw a very small piece of what happened.  I missed  television coverage, the parades, and all of the speculation.  With this  book, I finally saw into the rationale of modern war craft from a  commander's perspective.  I knew what me and my unit was doing, and why,  but not how we fit in to the larger plan.  With this book I could see what  I was missing at my level of operations.<br />This book may never be required  reading at the Army War College, but who knows, it just might.  Tom Clancy  has succeeded in providing a practical view of command which anyone can  understand.  given the unique nature of the Gulf War, this series of books  promises to help explain why the war happened the way it did.	2000-07-22
US	49395242	R2UI8W4ZVE40E9	1566890012	666483795	Moment's Notice: Jazz in Poetry and Prose	Books	4	13	13	N	N	More than a Moment with this book	Moment's Notice performs a necessary service for the world of poetry and music.  By providing an anthology that shows the influence of jazz on poetry and fiction, readers can look to other things that influence  writing.  But not for a while, because the reader will want to spend some  quality time reading this particular book.  For the jazz fan, this book is  a must read.  For the poetry fan, this book is also a must read.<br />Every  writer you would hope for or expect is represented here.  James Baldwin  with Sonny's Blues, Jack Kerouac with a selection from The Subterraneans,  Larry Neal's &quot;Don't Say Goodbye to the Porkpie Hat,&quot; and so many  more.  Langston Hughes' &quot;Be-Bop Boys&quot; is a stunning and masterful  revelation for those people who only know him from &quot;The Weary  Blues&quot; or &quot;Dream Deferred.&quot;  Look for David Meltzer's  description of a conversation with Thelonius Monk and David Hilton's poem  about Chet Baker.  Both are wonderful highlights of this collection of  prose and poetry.  <br />The only time where this book falls short is that  like so many  other American literary anthologies, only a few women are  represented.  However, I am certain this is a product of the subject at  hand rather than the editors choices, for the writings of Jayne Cortez,  Wanda Coleman, and Jessica Hadgedorn are included. I see the small showing  of female voices to be a very minor detail and one that does not hinder the  wonderful work which is included in the anthology.	2000-07-21
US	49395242	R2A69YT40GJTKK	0967354005	93852017	Teen.com Book of Poetry, Volume 1	Books	1	3	8	N	Y	Do NOT buy this book	This is my first really negative review of any book I have purchased from Amazon.  However, I feel no guilt in rating this book with one star.  If there was a rating of no stars, this book would get that rating from me.   The one positive thing about this book is it is obviously written by  teenagers.  Any reader of this book will learn really fast that the act of  writing is something special, if only because the reader can see that the  writing and editing of this book shows no real effort.<br />To be clear, I was  excited to buy this book.  I wanted to use it in my upcoming creative  writing class as a text.  I was more than prepared to have my principal buy  twenty copies of this book---that is until I saw it in the flesh.  <br />This  book is nothing more than a collection of horrid, pedantic, smarmy poetry  written by teenagers overwrought with what they think poetry should be. Not  one poem  escapes rhyme.  Not one poet shows any love of poetry.   Figurative language, the very essence of poetry, is rare as hens teeth.   And when figurative language does show its face, it is full of  abstraction.<br />Rather than include poetry of merit, the editors either show  an incredible lack of understanding of poetry by the poems they selected,  or they show poor editing skills by taking whatever came across the  internet to be quality writing.  I literally feel that the editors called  for a submission of poetry and they decided to include the first day's  submissions for the book regardless of quality.  When reading this book, I  get the feeling I am stuck in a 12 step program meeting the week after the  counselor asked everyone to write about their deepest feelings in a  poem.<br />This book only helps to show young poets what they need to  transcend before they can call themselves serious about writing.  Teachers  need to avoid this book if they want their students to learn about  figurative language and how to write about more than lost love or God or  friendship and the like.  As a poet, I am ashamed that this book exists  because it might give a reader the wrong idea of what poetry really is and  what it should be.	2000-07-21
US	49395242	R103B38U93OKT5	0393308332	310694812	The Before Columbus Foundation Poetry Anthology: Selections from the American Book Awards, 1980-1990	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Wonderful View of Alternate Voices in American Poetry	This book is quite simply one of the best ways to see a complete picture of what America is by way of poetry.  Even though the selected poetry is obviously limited to the Before Columbus Foundation Book Awards, the  selections are wonderful. This fact only validitates the necessity and  power of the book series and the extremely woderful editing of the  anthology. What's more, the editors take turns in introducing the poets and  their poetry.<br />As someone who grew up in rural Utah, I did not readily  take the opportunity to read a varied set of voices.  When I bought this  book while I was in the Army, I felt that I truly began my education in  reading multi-cultural voices in poetry.  I had heard names like Allen  Ginsberg and Amiri Baraka (both included in this anthology) but suddenly I  was reading Larry Neal, Ai, Etheridge Knight, Tato Laviera, and Jayne  Cortez.<br />My favorite selections from this book are from the poets Larry  Neal, Etheridge Knight, Amiri Baraka, and Frank Stanford.  Each poem from  these selections (and really the whole book) is powerful and essential to  the education of Americans.  My copy of this book is dog eared and worn  because even after eight years I still read from it at least once a week.   If you can get a copy of this book, do it.	2000-07-21
US	49395242	R18APZGBS84QAX	0295975989	749077678	From a Three-Cornered World (Scott and Laurie Oki Series in Asian American Studies)	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Truly a Wonderful Collection of Poems	From a Three Cornered World takes poems from Jim Mitsui's three previous  books and adds them to three sections of new poems. Jim Mitsui, is of  course of Japanese descent, but the poet is also a Washington state poet,  and an American poet. From the beginning, Mitsui shows  careful attention  to the things which influence his life. Jim Mitsui takes the reader on a  guided tour of his family and his wonderfully rich view of the world.  The  reader sees the author's world from a multitude of perspectives ranging  from childhood to career to friendships to love. Add to this that the poet  has a magnificent sense of personal history, that is a personal perspective  of history, and you cannot go wrong. Being fortunate enough to listen to  Mitsui both read and talk about his poetry, I have come away with a sense  that he wants me to discover rather than be told what to expect from these  poems.  Often influenced by paintings and the wonderful minutia of everyday  life, I find myself reading his poem, &quot;Rationale,&quot; again and  again.  The two line ars poetica is as powerful as that of Neruda.  Quite  simply, this is a fascinating collection of poetry of which I shall never  tire.	2000-07-19
US	49395242	RH8OLT9WWD3O5	0425170349	626650351	Rainbow Six (John Clark Novel, A)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	So, You Want to be a Commando?	Having read all of the Jack Ryan novels, as well as No Remorse, I think this book is a marvelous addition to the series.  In fact, along with Executive Orders, this book I bought when it came out in hard cover, and  feel it was worth the wait and the price of admission.  With that said, I  should go into why I liked the book so much.<br />When I was in the army, my  S-4 1lt., a real go-getter, always had a Tom Clancy book under his arm.  At  the time, 1990, I had no idea why someone would read a Tom Clancy book  while they were living the &quot;real thing,&quot; so to speak.  However,  after being discharged, I am able to read on of Mr. Clancy's books and  suppress the occasional longings I have for the military life I departed.   I read and re-read the books often, and I get the same feeling of fun,  excitement, and suspense each and every time I do.  Not too many books of  this nature can make this claim with me.<br />I also admire Mr. Clancy's  research and detail.  I am no techno-weenie, but being a historian who has  researched counter terrorism, I enjoy what he is able to provide to the  reader in understandable language.  Specifically, highly plausible and  factual information  within a grand plot.   <br />So why four stars instead of  five?  Well, to be honest, this plot borrows too much upon continuing a  theme brought forth in the book, Sum Of All Fears.  Namely the means by  which the terrorists use to attack the United States.  Also, with Clancy, I  see a reluctance to allow bad things to happen to major characters within  this last book.  Yes, the terrorism hits close to home, but that is all,  just close.  I understand an attachment to characters, but these people are  the luckiest people in the world to have all of this danger strike so close  yet never hit a major character.<br />In the end, I am hooked, for good reason  I might add.  To this end, Rainbow Six is a wonderful book, even if you  have never read any of the other Jack Ryan Books.	2000-07-15
US	49395242	R14GK21O993MDG	1556591322	940633304	News from Down to the Cafe: New Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	News From Down to the Cafe--- Review of Poems and the Poet	Dave Lee, with News From Down to the Cafe, has brought us closer to the oral tradition which is at the center of what poetry should always strive to be.  To be experienced fully, the poems must be read aloud, and not just  at the author's urging, but because all poetry should be read out loud.   &quot;Poetry is a participation sport,&quot; Lee has said more than once.   With this book, and others of his this is not hyperbole--- a vocal reading  is essential.  Dave Lee paints not just pictures with his words, his poems  are vast murals of what it is like to live in a small town where things are  done a bit differently.  In &quot;The Twenty-One Gun Salute,&quot; Lee  shows how the collective mind of the small town works  by exploring the  skewed perception of what a funeral must have in order to be a real  funeral. &quot;The Fish&quot; takes on marriage and the determination of a  husband and wife, both unwilling to give in to the other.  However, what I  found of particular interest and delight in this collection of poems, was  the inclusion of E.U. Washburn.  Having grown up in a small town (though  not as small as the author's),  I have seen many of the same people  included in Lee's books, in my own life.  E.U. Washburn literally sends a  chill down my back.  Not because every small town has someone like E.U., or  because there is the chance that I knew the one from my town, but because   E.U. Washburn is so complete.  I actually ask myself at times whether E.U.  is actually a manifestation of the poet in the third person.  My conclusion  is that E.U. Washburn is at least in part, autobiographical. Dave Lee seems  to be a democratic poet, because he chooses to write about what he knows,  with a voice that he has known all of his life.  Lee has studied for the  ministry, taken a Ph.D. in literature, taught at Southern Utah University,  but has also raised pigs, been a professional pitcher, and soldier.  These  things and more have shaped his voice into one of the truly unique voices  in American Poetry. To pass by this book, or Lee's other works without  reading them, would leave a blind spot in anyone's literary experience.	2000-06-09
US	49395242	R28SFJGKUGXU6L	1556590989	824679004	A Legacy of Shadows: Selected Poems	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Legacy of Shadows, A legacy of Work	For anyone interested in reading as close to the the complete collection Dave Lee's narrative voice as one can get, describing small town life, Legacy of Shadows is a must read.  Collected from Lee's previous major  works, Legacy of Shadows begins with The Porcine Legacy and ends with  selections from My Town, winner of the Western States Book Award.  In this  one title, the reader will be able to see a complete picture of the unique  and wonderful voice that David Lee brings to poetry.  Published in  conjunction with News Down to the Cafe: New Poems, Legacy of Shadows will  stir the emotions of any reader.	2000-06-09
