US	49403816	R261TJQ9C7OHX	0553456199	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	1	5	N	N	A remarkable work, especially in audio form	This review refers to the Audio book, masterfully read by David Ogden Stiers.<br />A MAN IN FULL is a noteworthy work by Tom Wolfe that examines the core of true manliness in the modern world.  While there's no swashbuckling, open-shirted flexing of pectorals, just watch as two men are pressed far beyond the breaking point of most - one maintains his honor at the ultimate cost, the other struggles mightily with folding his hand.  Both rise from the ashes of their former lives in extraordinary form.<br />Wolfe has a keen ability to delicately describe the intricacies of interpersonal interactions with delightful detail.  Though the audiobook is abridged, it maintains the integrity of Wolfe's wonderful descriptions.  The beauty of Wolfe's work is in the subtle, smart observations of human thought, action, and reaction.  For example, one of the main characters loves to flex his large lattissimus dorsi (back) muscles as it insinuates his physical dominance not only to his companions, but to himself.  Admit it - you know someone like that, and recognizing it will make you smile.<br />Though cleverly written and plotted, A MAN IN FULL is not for the faint of heart.  There is some grizzly, real-world subject matter that may make the reader cringe.  There is an artfully crafted scene that far surpasses the end-of-your-rope tension presented by the feature films &quot;Falling Down&quot; and &quot;Changing Lanes&quot;, where the reader will feel the vice of life's little injustices add up to an unbearable Herculean burden.  There is a particularly gut-wrenching scene that culminates in a hideous violation in a prison shower stall.  Though we'd like to assume these things don't happen, Tom Wolfe reports it with a sad urgency that requires the reader's attention.<br />I would recommend listening to A MAN IN FULL in its audiobook format as read by David Ogden Stiers.  I don't believe that I've ever heard an audiobook reader so perfectly matched for a particular novel.  Stiers expertly evokes a wide range of American dialects from upper-class white Atlanta, to upper-class black Atlanta, to lower-class Oakland, to white-supremacist prisoner, to Latino, to butcher, baker, and candlestick-maker.  The entire performance is pitch-perfect, adding an additional level of emotional involvement in the story.  Stiers (of M*A*S*H fame) shines brightest when performing the behind-closed-doors scenes of Atlanta's political and business meetings.  He brings the precise amount of vocal snobbery, conceits, and vulnerability that we came to love/hate in his M*A*S*H character, Dr. Charles Emerson Winchester III.<br />A MAN IN FULL comes highly recommended for those seeking an excellently crafted novel, with rich descriptions of each character.  An additional recommendation comes for the audiobook. David Ogden Stiers provides the ideal avenue on which to (re)experience this well-told tale.pertly evokes a wide range of American dialects from upper-class white Atlanta, to upper-class black Atlanta, to lower-class Oakland, to white-supremacist prisoner, to Latino, to butcher, baker, and candlestick-maker.  The entire performance is pitch-perfect, adding an additional level of emotional involvement in the story.  Stiers (of M*A*S*H fame) shines brightest when performing the behind-closed-doors scenes of Atlanta's political and business meetings.  He brings the precise amount of vocal snobbery, conceits, and vulnerability that we came to love/hate in his M*A*S*H character, Dr. Charles Emerson Winchester III.<br />A MAN IN FULL comes highly recommended for those seeking an excellently crafted novel, with rich descriptions of each character.  An additional recommendation comes for the audiobook. David Ogden Stiers provides the ideal avenue on which to (re)experience this well-told tale.	2003-10-21
US	49403816	R24VVA74TGK1TB	0553455680	590969628	Ambush at Fort Bragg	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Wolfe-Lite, but interesting nonetheless	Tom Wolfe presents an even-handed tale about a head-twisting attempt of a newsmagazine crew to ambush military men accused of killing a gay fellow soldier.  This short story will leave you wondering, \\"Who actually got ambushed?\\"  The soldiers?  The murdered victim?  The newscrew?  The American public?  Possibly everyone.<br />In comparison to other Wolfe works, AMBUSH is relatively shallow.  It's still a work that might make a number of other best-selling authors green with envy.  Wolfe explores the minds of soldiers and newspeople whose motives and actions are far more complex than they appear on the surface.  One would be tempted to initially label both parties in black and white judgements, but Wolfe's rich internal monologues make that difficult.  The murder and it's criminal investigation ultimately become secondary to the news story and the circumstances surrounding it.<br />Wolfe's even-handed approach to presenting the complex details of what appears to be an open and shut case will have folks from opposite sides of life react to different details with ire.  It's easy to hate the accused rednecks.  They're crass, unpolished, crude, and embody every bad southern male stereotype.  It also becomes easy to hate the media moguls who twist and torment the story, not because they want justice (they don't REALLY care about gay rights or even solving the crime), but because they want huge ratings.  They want their names up in lights.  They'd sell their souls for things they don't even believe in.  The converse observation of the accused soldiers is that they'd never hide behind false pretense, even to the point of death.<br />The audio book has its own set of issues.  Edward Norton's reading certainly hits the mark on tone and atmosphere.  He's earnest, but varied in quality.  (Given, deep-south--nearly-unintelligible-redneck might not be an easy accent to emmulate, but sometimes it's just painful.)  The producers seemed to want to throw in \\"mood music\\" at every opportunity, so the listener is bombarded with distracting backdrops of country metal and news-promo orchestrations that add nothing to the overall mix.  Please don't let that disuade you from this quick listen (about 180 minutes) is you're interested.  Just consider yourself warned.<br />AMBUSH at FORT BRAGG comes recommended to those seeking a quick and engaging tale to fit between your larger listening projects.portunity, so the listener is bombarded with distracting backdrops of country metal and news-promo orchestrations that add nothing to the overall mix.  Please don't let that disuade you from this quick listen (about 180 minutes) is you're interested.  Just consider yourself warned.<br />AMBUSH at FORT BRAGG comes recommended to those seeking a quick and engaging tale to fit between your larger listening projects.	2003-10-17
US	49403816	R1TINRH0KKBWS0	0609609815	536992812	Dark Matter: The Private Life of Sir Isaac Newton	Books	2	13	21	N	N	Betwixt matters dark, stilted, and incongruent	DARK MATTER by Philip Kerr is a tale of epic opportunity, but meager result.  Kerr attempts to flesh-out a dark, brooding mystery in dark, brooding Central London during the dark, brooding 17th century.  A reader could get the feeling that Mr. Kerr was trying to set a certain mood...<br />The story observes Sir Isaac Newton through the eyes of his apprentice, Christopher Ellis, both &quot;real&quot; people.  Newton is, of course, brilliant but also comes across as quite conceited, unfeeling, and not in the least bit charming.  One could hope that the Newton character could be likeable, even in an eccentric manner, but Kerr's Newton gives the reader no reason to cheer, or care.  Ellis is his swashbuckling sidekick who's good with a sword and better with the ladies.  Yes, Ellis is, in fact, THAT cliched.  In both cases, the characters move about London with relatively little believable motivation (Newton: pursuit of counterfeiters; Ellis: pursuit of some &quot;tail&quot;).  Even with poetic license on his side, Kerr's revelations into the mind of what could be the world's most brilliant scientist are remarkably shallow and unimaginative.<br />The prose is positively painful.  One might imagine Kerr hunched over a thesaurus looking up words that sound old.  From the first page, one can tell the reading of DARK MATTER will be an effort:  &quot;...a little consideration of heavenly deliverance might have helped me to channel my anger against Papist tyranny instead of the man who had impugned my honour.&quot;  (And that's not even the whole sentence.)  I'll admit the effort was valiant, but it lacks the rhythmic flow of literature of the day, and ends up stilted, staccato, and awkward.  The unevenness of his effort is evident, never more dramatically than in the midst of Ellis' flowery description of a particularly attractive (and married) woman, he throws in a comment about her &quot;boobies&quot;.  Great literature, to be sure.<br />With shallow characters, a mad-lib mystery plot, and over-formal, pretentious prose, DARK MATTER was a major disappointment.stery plot, and over-formal, pretentious prose, DARK MATTER was a major disappointment.	2003-09-26
US	49403816	RS6HHP2RS1VNU	0671507036	302793228	Montana 1948: A Novel	Books	2	12	18	N	N	Novel version of a 'B' reel movie - and not for the kids	An interesting premise gets a surprisingly dark tone and poor execution in MONTANA 1948.  Though it's billed as a \\"coming of age\\" story, there isn't much in the way of plot concerned with a boy metamorphosing into a man.  What author Larry Watson presents is a mature man's recollections about tragic childhood events in his family's history and some eye-opening facets of his family's dark side.<br />MONTANA 1948's tone is part \\"Stand By Me\\", part \\"Pulp Fiction\\".  There are some very adult, very disturbing themes included in this tale, including physical and sexual abuse.  (I would encourage you to screen this short novel before letting your children read it.)  It's an oddball combination that never really jives well and reads in a stilted, awkward fashion.  For instance, a plot key plot line about shall we say, \\"creative imprisonment\\", is interrupted with a lenghthy description of the family laundry room.  It felt as if Mr. Watson just need to fill the page.<br />All these factors left this reader wondering, \\"Who was the author's intended audience?\\"  The prose is constructed in such a way as to sugguest this could be a novel for young readers, but thematically, it wouldn't seem appropriate for many in that age group.  (Again, know your child's maturity level and know the book before making a decision here.  Don't just take my word for it.)  On the other hand, if Mr. Watson was intending for adults to read this book, it's put together in a very juvenile fashion, sloppily executed (the main character, David, is amazingly PC in his \\"20/20\\" hindsight, especially considering his family culture and upbringing), with charicatured character development and scenery.  I never felt \\"drawn in\\" by this particular story's setting, and I've seen better character development off the mass-marketed Best-Seller rack.  The insights into the characters and their motives and emotions are thin at best.  With the slow pacing and meandering storytelling, it was a tough 180 pages to finish.<br />If you're looking for a great coming-of-age story taking place in rural America with stunning imagery and great characters, I have two alternate recommendations for you:  1)  PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf (also a more adult-oriented novel - quite quiet with fantastic characters); and 2)  JIM THE BOY, by Tony Earley, which can be heartily enjoyed by young readers and adults alike.r />If you're looking for a great coming-of-age story taking place in rural America with stunning imagery and great characters, I have two alternate recommendations for you:  1)  PLAINSONG, by Kent Haruf (also a more adult-oriented novel - quite quiet with fantastic characters); and 2)  JIM THE BOY, by Tony Earley, which can be heartily enjoyed by young readers and adults alike.	2003-08-14
US	49403816	RHJ5318CSH410	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	4	0	0	N	N	&quot;What does it profit a man to gain the whole world...&quot;	&quot;...but lose his soul?&quot;<br />This is the central conflict in John Grisham's THE KING OF TORTS.  Clay Carter is a young criminal defense attorney working for peanuts in Washington DC's Office of the Public Defender.  He is approached by a shadowy figure whose scheme could make Clay rich beyond his wildest dreams.  The scheme works and soon the shadowy figure has more, increasingly riskier lawsuits promising even bigger payouts.  Clay Carter rakes in millions of &quot;easy&quot; dollars and is dubbed by the legal community &quot;The King of Torts&quot;.<br />The fame, money, and influence are not without their dark sides.  Clay, naive as he is, initially believes he won't get roped into the trappings of private jets and private islands.  He couldn't be more wrong.<br />While not spectacularly written, this novel is a decent exploration of human nature when it's confronted with the Goose and her Golden Eggs.  It's hard not to grab all you can get, even if you have good intentions.  Clay Carter's character takes on his first class-action suit with noble intentions of righting corporate wrongs, then transforms into a mass-litigator without regard for consequenses, either personally or for the greater good of his clients or defendants.  Understandably, he's blinded by huge money.  He makes his fortune in less than a year, and when the millions are his, Clay is further blinded by the narcissism of the extremely wealthy.<br />John Grisham crafted Clay in such a way that you can't help but cheer for him (because he was once one of &quot;us&quot;) and hope he gets his comeuppance at the same time (because now he's one of &quot;them&quot;).  Though Clay puts on his ethical blinders, he never completely kills his conscience.  When Grisham pulls back the curtain to the inner-workings of a high-powered attorney's mind, one can see why they do what they do, yet loathe their chosen path.  One can empathise with Clay's actions, and at the same time despise him for actually going through with them.<br />While it's probably too quiet a book to make the leap to the silver screen, THE KING OF TORTS is a quick and easy read with some keen insights and fun wit.  More than once I chuckled out loud at Grisham's observations of human relations and behavior.  I'd recommend THE KING OF TORTS to Grisham fans as well as those few not yet familiar with some form of his work.going through with them.<br />While it's probably too quiet a book to make the leap to the silver screen, THE KING OF TORTS is a quick and easy read with some keen insights and fun wit.  More than once I chuckled out loud at Grisham's observations of human relations and behavior.  I'd recommend THE KING OF TORTS to Grisham fans as well as those few not yet familiar with some form of his work.	2003-08-13
US	49403816	RB5E9RGDNCWWA	0781741548	542140421	Brunner and Suddarth's Textbook of Medical-Surgical Nursing	Books	3	51	52	N	N	Exhaustive (Good) &amp; Exhausting (Not-so-good)	I'm a recent graduate of a Registered Nursing program in which we used this textbook as our primary resource for Med-Surg information.  I had a strong love/hate relationship with this textbook and I believe with a few revisions, it could be a truly outstanding piece of work.<br />First, THE GOOD:  It is unarguably EXHAUSTIVE in the depth of information presented, thus it makes an excellent reference material.  The explanations of diseases, disorders, treatments, and techniques are clear and concise, albeit very dense.  Don't expect to be able to skim anything here - absolutely every word seems necessary, and no space is wasted.  One can gain a great deal of confidence when one has absolute confidence in the validity of their textbook.  Brunner &amp; Suddarths projects that kind of reliability.<br />THE BAD:  Such copious amounts of information require precise and meticulous organization, which Brunner &amp; Suddarth's is lacking.  Though it does not take away from the validity of the information, you might have some difficulty finding what you're looking for.  More than once I noticed a disease or disorder's definition out of chronological order in the chapter, located well after the text had referred to it several times.  (I was often feeling quite lost and stupid when the book would mention something I'd never seen before, only to define it 30 pages later.  Once I discovered that pattern, I knew to dig for definitions before continuing my studies.)  The index often seems incomplete, as I often found myself wandering for a passage I had been studying earlier, searching until I stumbled on the passcode-type keyword.  Sometimes, there is no cross-reference in the index at all.<br />If you're a nursing student (first of all, GOOD LUCK!  It's worth the trials!)  or a RN who is looking for a great reference material for your profession, this textbook comes recommended.  For most effective study, use it more like an encyclopedia than a standard text.	2003-08-13
US	49403816	R13ATOE0STEUCJ	0312874766	74115197	Domain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well-written, enveloping story	Steve Alten sure did his mythological research.  In DOMAIN, he presents a tale woven through the tapestry of thousands of years of multi-continental myths and history.  Using an intriguing variety of real backdrops shrouded in historical mystery, Alten will have you second-guessing what you think you know about Meso-American architecture and culture.  In fact, the connections between actual archeological fact and Alten's fiction were so seamless, I'll probably be mentally sorting it out for some time to come.  Michael Crichton has made a career out of blurring fact and fiction, and in DOMAIN, Steve Alten raises the bar.<br />Alten's pacing is quick and the tone is taut from cover to cover.  Don't peek at the last few pages, because he's still got plot twists cooking until then!  His descriptions of people and settings are vivid, but allow some play within the reader's mind.  Character development is sufficient to keep the plot clipping along, though the herione, Dominique, does some things that are not logically explainable (ie: attempting to free a mental patient from an asylum with NO proof of his sanity).  That's probably nitpicking, because it isn't so unbelieveable as to derail the story.  Mick's character is quite well written and one can feel his anquish as he is forced to make some agonizing, life-altering decisions throughout the book.<br />As if transported into some alternate historic reality, I felt completely enveloped by Alten's tales of creation, human development, and ultimate showdown with Evil.  Even though it requires a bit of sci-fi suspension-of-disbelief, it makes some very powerful, compelling (and entertaining) reading.  I highly recommend DOMAIN to those who enjoy a bit of sci-fi, a bit of Indiana Jones-style adventure, and a fast-paced story all rolled into one.	2003-08-12
US	49403816	R1BU05PKBX8JO4	0670852120	839167119	Hardscape: A Mystery Introducing Ben Abbott (Ben Abbott Mystery)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Hidden Gem, Intelligently Written	Ben Abbott is a fiesty, resourceful, (innocent) ex-con realtor who is a great observer of people and a real sucker for the ladies.  Financial and emotional needs land him inadvertantly in the middle of a murder mystery in a (usually) quiet get-away town north of NYC.  Ben is personally vested in one of the victims (his cousin), and would like to be with one of the suspects (a lovely, lonely woman).<br />Justin Scott's writing was truly refreshing, like the New England autumn in which his wonderfully woven story takes place.  His characters' dialogue is sharp and character-consistent enough that the reader doesn't need constant reminding who is speaking (unlike so many modern mystery writers whose characters are completely flat).  Scott's discriptions of action and settings blend seamlessly into the story, and often are contributing factors.  He addresses all sorts of folks, from NYC big-time business brokers to backwoods bumpkins, and he writes them all very well.<br />This is not a book to be \\"skimmed\\" -- if you do, you'll miss a number of Justin Scott's wonderful little additions.  Scott has such superbly gentle command of his storytelling in HARDSCAPE that there is a great deal of depth to his characters that can be read between the lines.  For instance, the hero, Ben Abbott, has many great traits, but his internal dialogue is also humorously honest about his flaws.  Being a single man who loves female companionship, what Ben notices and thus describes about other characters he encounters is different:  he talks about the men according to their physical size and strength (just what an ex-con would notice and evaluate - can I take him?), and he takes note of other characteristics of the fairer sex - their clothes, hair, smiles, etc...  It's a really brilliantly executed character development device.  Scott paints such a pretty picture of the New England countryside that one can almost smell the sweet smoke of the wood-burning stoves.<br />While the plot is not extraordinary and the conclusion a little too Matlock-neat to fit the rest of the lush tale, everything else IS extraordinary.  HARDSCAPE is the most smartly written, engrossing, and enjoyable fiction I've read in the past year.  I'm looking forward a great deal to Scott's second entry into the Ben Abbott series, STONEDUST.  I highly recommend HARDSCAPE for those seeking a clever, fun mystery to get wrapped up in.extraordinary and the conclusion a little too Matlock-neat to fit the rest of the lush tale, everything else IS extraordinary.  HARDSCAPE is the most smartly written, engrossing, and enjoyable fiction I've read in the past year.  I'm looking forward a great deal to Scott's second entry into the Ben Abbott series, STONEDUST.  I highly recommend HARDSCAPE for those seeking a clever, fun mystery to get wrapped up in.	2003-07-29
US	49403816	R2WLRL1CL67NR7	1586212354	309666534	2nd Chance (The Women's Murder Club)	Books	2	1	1	N	N	Reheated leftovers...  And who said that?	While reading 2ND CHANCE, one could get the feeling, \\"I've read this before.\\"  Its title seems oddly appropriate, as if James Patterson was hoping to rework a few of his tales with old literary tools.  2ND CHANCE reads like reheated leftovers - and not the kind that get better the 2nd time around.<br />The pattern of plot and character development is very akin to his tried and true formula (and nearly identical to FOUR BLIND MICE), which left this reader wishing Patterson had shuffled his plot deck at least a little.  The story itself is mildly interesting, but there's nothing here you haven't read before, or seen in any run of the mill renegade-killer-suspense movie.  This could have been salvaged if there had been interesting prose, location descriptions, or dialogue, but that too, is sorely lacking.<br />The martini-clatch of crime solving heroines hold immense, but sadly untapped potential.  They could all be largely interchangeable, as if there were four highly successful female clones having a conversation at a bar with the same voice.  There are times when all four ladies are present in a scene, and if Patterson doesn't say \\"so-and-so said\\", you wouldn't have the foggiest idea who was talking.  Patterson's character development comes more in the form of what's happening to the characters (ie: getting pregnant), rather than what drives the characters to do what they do.  I did not feel endeared to any of the heorines, therefore I found it very difficult to care much about them.  (I really didn't like that even though one of the group is pregnant, they still insist on meeting regularly in some bar.  Weak attempt at a near-beer scene aside, either Patterson doesn't understand women, or he's deliberately making them look insanely irresponsible.  Either way, it didn't work for me.)  Similarly, the villian is somewhat interesting, but like the rest of this book, is far from compelling or gripping.<br />I would not recommend 2ND CHANCE as your introduction to the work of James Patterson.rk of James Patterson.	2003-07-25
US	49403816	R2VB72SLL3NR5Z	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Summer Blockbuster-style Story	As with many Michael Crichton tales, when reading Prey you'd be well advised to switch the brain into neutral and simply enjoy the rollercoaster ride for the fun of it.  Crichton is nothing if not an effective and entertaining storyteller.  Crichton wastes no time with character development beyond a few charicature sketches (ie: family-man, company-man, rebel computer programmers, kids), but he skillfully dances his paper puppets through exciting action at break-neck speed.  At times it seems as though every page ends in a cliff-hanger, which compells the reader to turn the page and find out what happens next.  Thus it would be appropriate to label this novel with the well-fit cliche of \\"page-turner\\".<br />Prey reads like a summer blockbuster movie - action, action, action, breathe, action, action, action.  During the few breathers, Crichton downshifts into technical lecture mode and the transition can be quite jarring - not the technical details themselves, as he has a way of putting techie stuff into plainspeak - but the change of pace is often quite abrupt just before he launches his characters back into the middle of Pickle #109.  Crichton certainly does his homework, which the 3 page bibliography bears witness to.  I'm not a nanotechnology scientist or popular science junkie so I can't speak to the validity of the theories he projects.  It's technical enough to be believable but written in a way that makes it easy to understand and is certainly eye-opening as to the possibilities (and fears) that the future may hold.<br />It's a given that Prey won't give you deep character angst or reflection, terribly complicated plot lines, or finely textured multi-layered interpersonal communications, but hey, when the readin's this much fun, who cares?  Prey comes highly recommended for those seeking some fun and exciting escapist reading.  Crichton again proves he can spin a great yarn.	2003-07-21
US	49403816	R3N0ZNMVVXAR9C	0142800023	583024749	Jackdaws	Books	3	2	3	N	N	The Dirty Dozen With Chicks	Will the real Ken Follett please stand up?  Ken Follett has me confused.  The first book of his I read, Code to Zero, was fantastic.  The second, Lie Down With Lions, was (and continutes to be) awful.  Jackdaws lies somewhere in between, but thankfully leans toward the strong end of the Follett Quality Continuum.<br />Jackdaws is, without a doubt, a fast-paced and exciting read.  At it's core, it sort of like \\"The Dirty Dozen\\" with chicks.  Feminists, please hold your \\"NOT HELPFUL!\\" votes in check for a moment.  The reason I say \\"chicks\\" is because that's exactly how Follett writes the women of this story.  With the exception of Flick, the strongly written heroine, Follett presents his readers with an intriguing set of feminine charicatures that have loads of potential, but never amount to more than self-ambulating window dressing.  More on that later.<br />This isn't a tale of a broad-brush invasion or have exotic locales all over the world, but that is Jackdaws' strength.  This is a story about an admirable group of resistance fighters trying to make a difference in their corner of the war, and it ends up rippling to far greater effect.  The setting is WWII, Nazi-occupied France just before the D-Day invasion.  Flick and her French resistance counterparts seek to knock out the Nazi communications center and come up with an innovative plan to do it: disquise a team of women to infiltrate the comm center dressed as cleaning ladies.  Through the story, Flick is unknowingly matching wits with a Nazi intelligence officer, and the cat-and-mouse games begin.<br />Follett fleshes out his Nazi anti-hero, Dieter, at least as much as any other character, and that makes him interesting.  Indeed, he is methodically sadistic in extracting information from his subjects.  Follett graphically describes his methods, which are invariably more effective (but no less painful) than the brutal beatings regularly meted out by the Gestapo officers.  This proves to be a profound reminder that war is hell, and Dieter is the dungeon-master's model of German efficiency.  Though Follett presents Dieter as a human subject, he is far from sympathetic.<br />The ladies Flick and British intelligence agencies recruit are a motley crew.  They're outcasts from general society that have special and/or unique skills.  Here's where Follett fell deeply into P.C. mode, trying to fit the square peg of all-inclusiveism into the round hole of a decent plot line.  If you think I'm nuts, just bear with me for a moment.  Why did Follett feel compelled to include a lesbian and a transvestite on this all-\\"female\\" team?  It certainly didn't advance the plot, though if he'd worked it right, it could have.  The lesbian sub-plot only turned out to be a mere few paragraphs (including a half-dressed encounter) that ended with a \\"whatever makes you happy\\" sermon by the squad commander.  Do you honestly think that would have flown in the '40s?  Probably not, and besides, it sounded so preachy.<br />When Follett first revealed a transvestite, I was intrigued. I was looking forward to how the team could utilize a cross-dresser's unique \\"talents and abilities\\", but again Follett squandered this plot potential.  That member of the team's \\"true identity\\" is revealed, then \\"she\\" is henceforth treated like one of the girls with essentially no issue from the other team members and no big unique pay-off during the mission.  Again, this contrived plot line (if you can even call it that) is way too 21st-century-tolerance to be believed in a novel set in WWII.  So forced.  So sad.  With this kind of interpersonal plot line in place, the least he could have done is treated his audience to some realistic dialogue, actions, or reactions.<br />Shortcomings aside, Jackdaws remains an exciting read.  Follett's greatest strength is in his descriptions of the action, and scenes that include running, shooting, and exploding shine.  Gratefully, I can say, he gives of plenty of that.that war is hell, and Dieter is the dungeon-master's model of German efficiency.  Though Follett presents Dieter as a human subject, he is far from sympathetic.<br />The ladies Flick and British intelligence agencies recruit are a motley crew.  They're outcasts from general society that have special and/or unique skills.  Here's where Follett fell deeply into P.C. mode, trying to fit the square peg of all-inclusiveism into the round hole of a decent plot line.  If you think I'm nuts, just bear with me for a moment.  Why did Follett feel compelled to include a lesbian and a transvestite on this all-\\"female\\" team?  It certainly didn't advance the plot, though if he'd worked it right, it could have.  The lesbian sub-plot only turned out to be a mere few paragraphs (including a half-dressed encounter) that ended with a \\"whatever makes you happy\\" sermon by the squad commander.  Do you honestly think that would have flown in the '40s?  Probably not, and besides, it sounded so preachy.<br />When Follett first revealed a transvestite, I was intrigued. I was looking forward to how the team could utilize a cross-dresser's unique \\"talents and abilities\\", but again Follett squandered this plot potential.  That member of the team's \\"true identity\\" is revealed, then \\"she\\" is henceforth treated like one of the girls with essentially no issue from the other team members and no big unique pay-off during the mission.  Again, this contrived plot line (if you can even call it that) is way too 21st-century-tolerance to be believed in a novel set in WWII.  So forced.  So sad.  With this kind of interpersonal plot line in place, the least he could have done is treated his audience to some realistic dialogue, actions, or reactions.<br />Shortcomings aside, Jackdaws remains an exciting read.  Follett's greatest strength is in his descriptions of the action, and scenes that include running, shooting, and exploding shine.  Gratefully, I can say, he gives of plenty of that.	2003-06-18
US	49403816	RRK9CHWC115A1	0786865725	60638011	Congratulations! Now What?: A Book for Graduates	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Funny Enigma -- A Book For... Whom?	A quick perusal of the widely varied reviews on Amazon.com shows this book has polarized those who read it into two groups:  those who laughed and those who didn't.  Both points of view are, in this case, quite valid.<br />One of the major \\"problems\\" with this book might be the title.  This is, in fact, NOT a book FOR graduates.  It IS a book ABOUT graduates from a parent's point of view.  The point of view is very important, because it has everything to do with the prism through which the humor is presented.  A been-there-done-that parent sees the world very differently from their green-as-grass new grads.  A new grad who has yet to pay a rent check to Attilla The Hun can't possibly know what that's like, therefore the reference will be unfunny, maybe even a little scary.  Therefore, I wonder if the title choice wasn't made by a publisher marketing suit who hadn't read the book...<br />Nonetheless, the book still isn't one of Mr. Cosby's strongest efforts.  Doubtless, this book would be far funnier in audio format with Mr. Cosby as the reader, as his vocal inflections can paint word pictures worth 1,000 additional words.  Unfortuneately, I was left with my own, quite unfunny internal voice that had me smiling alot but never laughing aloud.<br />I would not recommend giving this as a graduation present to your 22-year-old grad fresh out of the dorms, but their parents might enjoy it.	2003-06-18
US	49403816	R307IFHWN1VIT5	0743500474	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese : An Amazing Way To Deal With Change In Your Work And In Your Life	Books	1	50	68	N	N	Guaranteed to be a best seller (CEOs have deep pockets)	\\"If this wasn't so rediculous, it'd be even funnier.\\" -- Who Moved My Cheese<br />This audiobook was given to me, along with a number of other coping-with-trying-times resources, by one of my many middle managers in the midst of a merger.  With an open mind I gave it a shot.  What did I have to loose, except my job?<br />This book is an over-simplistic metaphor for unexpected change that is beyond one's control, in which \\"cheese\\" is a symbol of something you want, ie: happiness, security, financial resources.  The message the authors attempt to convey is that your future, success, security, and ultimately happiness is within your control.  While this may be PARTLY true, the tone of the childlike story is so condescending (an unintended byproduct of the tale's simplification, I suspect), one could easily get the feeling it was penned by the committee representing CEOs Happily Unopposed to Bad Behavior (CHUBB).<br />The book amplifies feelings of rejection and betrayal by the faceless \\"Cheese Removers\\".  It raises many questions like, \\"What if I was counting on that cheese for future use\\", but offers no answer other than you've got to go out and find more \\"cheese\\" for yourself, even though everything you had was just taken from you for no apparent reason.  To me (and many others) this was not an inspiring read.  It was painful.<br />This book was destined to be a best seller because, no doubt, it can be ordered by the box-load by those anticipating removing others' cheese.  Sure, the message is a fine one, it's the delivery that flat-out stinks.	2003-06-10
US	49403816	R3M556581QG9N1	0395281598	456420815	The Spooky Tail of Prewitt Peacock (Sandpiper Books)	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Bill Peet charms again!	If you have yet to become acquainted with Bill Peet books, you're in for a treat!  His vibrantly colorful illustrations are fantastic and his stories very engaging.  I remember as a child how my imagination would run and frolick around in his wonderful stories and pictures.<br />Prewitt Peacock's story is no exception.  It's a tale of a... well... a tail.  Prewitt's tail is different from the other peacocks' tails, and he's subsequently an outcast.  His tail isn't quite what it seems, however, and what was once his weakness becomes his greatest strength.  Without being melodramatic, Bill Peet's story can teach a child that it's OK to be different - what sets you apart can make you special, too!<br />This book comes highly recommended for all kids (and their parents)!	2003-02-27
US	49403816	R1FU7WRRGL15WO	0671748947	323759442	Chicka Chicka Boom Boom	Books	5	16	20	N	N	WOW!  Fast and fun (and educational too)!	\\"A told B and B told C<br />I'll meet you at the top of the coconut tree.\\"<br />Thus begins Chicka Chicka Boom Boom's bouncy romp through the alphabet.  The cadence is quick and the rhyming is fun.  One can't help but read it aloud just to bop along!  This book has captivated every child I've seen \\"read\\" it from 1 month (no kidding, the bright colors and simple shapes really grab 'em) to 5 years.<br />As for its learning potential, Chicka Chicka Boom Boom clips through the alphabet twice, and in a brilliant move portrays the child-personified letters as lower-case and the \\"adult\\" letters as upper-case.  The \\"kid\\" letters are rambunctious and accitentally get hurt (resulting in \\"skinned-knee d\\", \\"black-eyed p\\", and \\"loose-toothed t\\"), but the \\"adult\\" letters are there to help them up, dust off their pants, and feel better.<br />In short, this is a book that's so sweet and fun, I'd have bought it even if it didn't have it's additional benefit of learning the alphabet!  Chicka Chicka Boom Boom comes highly recommended!	2003-02-05
US	49403816	R2R7KOOR6ZHWY1	0451163508	899583062	Lie Down with Lions (Signet)	Books	2	10	14	N	N	An electrifying, thrilling... SEEDY ROMANCE NOVEL?!	Sure, the plot clips along (read the other reviews for voluptuous praise of that point) but Lie Down With Lions is a romance novel in an action novel's clothing.<br />In the greatest tradition of WEB Griffin, Follett insists on beating his audience over the head with the torrid affairs of his characters.  How does comparing the lovemaking styles of the male points in a \\"love\\" triangle advance the plot?  The simple answer:  it doesn't, but it seemed to have tittilated Follett or his editors... or his accountants.  It's understandable that realistic characters will ultimately be sexual beings, but it's difficult appreciate CHEAP sex thrust meaninglessly into the heart of a novel.  Maybe its a sign of the times.  In any case, it seemed like a really cheesy obsession of his.<br />Another point:  the characters are so polarized into black-and-white, good and bad, that they feel like newsprint.  Given, this book was written in the 80s, when the Cold War was still raging, but as Sting so aptly recognized, \\"Russians love their children, too\\".  If you're going to write a novel, why not make your villians human?  (Thankfully, not every Follett book reads this way.)<br />Lie Down With Lions does not come recommended as your introduction to the work of Ken Follett.	2003-02-05
US	49403816	R1DC7FRGZJTO0K	0446525731	870710129	The Christmas Train	Books	4	38	40	N	N	Like Holiday Candy...	...maybe it's not nutritiously substantial, but it sure is tasty!<br />David Baldacci's The Christmas Train is a light-hearted tale that clips along at a jolly pace, much like the vehicle that carries its eclectic cast of characters.  The ensemble hails from just about every temperment and every walk of life, and though they're not terribly \\"deep\\", they are interesting to watch.  Much like one's travels in reality, Baldacci brings the group (with us) together, allows us to see their initial facades, and in some cases digs a little deeper.  For spice, he adds a splash of intrigue to the story in the form of a none-too-complicated mystery.  It's a fun diversion, but the story's focal point remains interpersonal interplay.<br />One truly refreshing aspect of this book is the complete absence of any objectionable material - the book could be easily rated G (or stretch to a PG for one honeymooning couple).  It's nice to know there are authors who can write an enjoyable novel without heavy doses of profanity, sex, or violence.  Who wants to read about that stuff at Christmastime anyway?  ;-)<br />Worth the ride, The Christmas Train provides the reader with a warm holiday treat!	2003-01-20
US	49403816	R2P8X8BMYIKHE4	0446520950	473671370	Total Control	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A fast-paced, modern cloak-and-dagger adventure	David Baldacci's Total Control careens on a collision course towards a firey conclusion. This fast-paced, modern mystery grips the reader from the first few pages, then refuses to release their attention until the last few. Baldacci keeps the tone taut with suspense and intrigue, allowing his audience to watch both sides of the story - both hero and villain - as they cat-and-mouse their way across the country.<br />The heroine is an attactive attorney whose husband seems to be mixed up in some less than savory activites at the office. This is complicated by the fact that as an attorney, she represents his company, which throws her into a maelstrom of conflicting interests and circumstantial evidence that makes her look guilty. When her husband goes missing, she single-handedly tries to clear his name, then is thrust against her will into trying to clear her own. With no one on her side, she must covertly attempt to crack this case without aid from her employer (who disowns her), her husband (who cannot be found), and the law (who's looking for her).<br />Baldacci balances the tense plot with break-neck action and a believable emotional side. The heroine makes believable mistakes and can act irrationally when her husband's safety is concerned, sometimes even seeming paralyzed with fear and grief, all while attempting to shield her young daughter from the chaos swirling around them. She also accomplishes herioc things without ever seeming man-ish. (There is a pseudo-sexual tension between her and a grizzly old cop that doesn't quite work, but thankfully Baldacci doesn't slum with so many popular authors who would force them to sleep together.)<br />Baldacci shows some flashes of story-telling brilliance here. Though some may argue this book is far from \\"high art\\", it effectively accomplishes its goal: capture Total Control of its audience.	2003-01-20
US	49403816	R2FQNRZOBFKDUB	0451184386	797392006	The Weatherman	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A suspenseful and enjoyable, if ultimately unfulfilling read	Don't get me wrong, The Weatherman is a real page turner.  Mr. Thayer tautly strings along his audience from page one right through the conclusion.  He expertly foreshadows some great red herrings and some true clues which kept the reader guessing nearly until the very end.  I thought, \\"Oh, it's DEFINATELY him\\" regarding several different characters, and my opinion flip-flopped back and forth several times.<br />The titular character, Dixon Bell, is particularly well created and fleshed out.  In fact, I'd go so far as to say Dixon Bell might be one of the best characters I've read this year.  Being from Minnesota, it was especially fun to read about well-described local landmarks (ie: the France Avenue flower shop a friend of mine works at) being destroyed by a gigantic tornado.  Mr. Thayer's behind-the-scenes descriptions of local TV news crews, production, and politics were chiefly compelling.  Very eye-opening and believable (except for one rediculously over-the-top faux-puritain-esque producer).<br />Unfortunately, the other characters don't get the same star treatment as The Weatherman.  The story's main sex-pot, Andrea Labore is cardboard in comparison.  Her actions had me asking, \\"Why would she DO that?\\" a number of times.  The lead investigative reporter, Rick Beanblossom, is better, but still nowhere near the character quality of Dixon Bell.  Then there's the aforementioned sex-obsessed-but-repressed TV news producer - he's so cliched it hurts.  He really had no point being included in the story except to have somebody for Mr. Thayer to sling mud at.  While Mr. Thayer shined so brightly when descriping Dixon Bell, it was disappointing when the other characters fell flat.<br />There was one particular scene I found profoundly disappointing.  Mr. Thayer describes an execution by electric chair.  (Somewhat unrelated point-of-fact: Minnesota has no Death Penalty.)  The overwhelming shortcoming of this scene is that it is a virtual carbon copy of the grizzly, botched execution as seen in the feature film, The Green Mile.  I felt like I was reading the screenplay, right down to several key central descriptions.  I felt cheated as I read it.  This was a good story that culminated in a scene stolen from another great story.  A little imagination would have provided acceptable and more compelling alternatives.<br />Ultimately, it's an enjoyable book, but it left this reader feeling empty.  The book's resolution left me not caring for any of the characters one way or another, which was disappointing.  Maybe that was the point.  Still, this book was constructed well enough that I will most likely read future Thayer works.botched execution as seen in the feature film, The Green Mile.  I felt like I was reading the screenplay, right down to several key central descriptions.  I felt cheated as I read it.  This was a good story that culminated in a scene stolen from another great story.  A little imagination would have provided acceptable and more compelling alternatives.<br />Ultimately, it's an enjoyable book, but it left this reader feeling empty.  The book's resolution left me not caring for any of the characters one way or another, which was disappointing.  Maybe that was the point.  Still, this book was constructed well enough that I will most likely read future Thayer works.	2003-01-17
US	49403816	R1IEOU3DH751JR	0743508734	913320116	Lucky Man: A Memoir	Books	4	0	0	N	N	HEAR Fox tell his story in his own voice!	(This review refers to the abridged audiobook.)<br />He's one of America's favorites - a fine, funny actor and runner up in the Mr. Niceguy World contest. We watched him grow up in the movies and on TV, successfully reinventing his carreer before our very eyes. Little did any of us know of his behind the scenes struggles with the progressive, dabilitating disease that is Parkinson's, but also his struggles with the trappings of fame, excess, and a whole lotta partying.<br />Though this memoir opens and closes with his fight against the insideous Parkinson's Disease (PD), Mr. Fox doesn't begrudge us other fun (and sometimes not-so-fun) and interesting details of his life. Mr. Fox opens up his life for the public to view, and he does it with grace, candor, and a refreshing heap of fun. He doesn't hesitate to poke humor at himself and his foibles, and gives his audience a remarkably colorful taste of what it's like to be him. He evenhandedly details his trials and triumphs about being a good father, husband, son, and sibling while juggling his suddenly \\"new\\" public persona. For instance, when he reminisces about having a \\"parking lot\\" in his driveway by age 25, one can nearly hear the 20/20 hindsight as he shakes his head in near disbelief. (Still, with the understanding that all things being equal, most Americans would probably do the same thing.) These stories are often followed by equally interesting tales of how his wife and family kept him grounded on earth.<br />HEARING this book brings the experience into a new dimension. Mr. Fox delivers each section with colorful naration and a wide range of expression, but a slight waver in his voice is a constant reminder of his minute-to-minute struggles with PD. This recording may have been a monumental effort, and I applaud him for it. (A closed circuit message to Michael J. Fox: You sound GREAT, MAN!) To hear the man tell this story in his own voice is remarkable. For that reason, I highly recommend snaring a copy of the audiobook. Audio or no audio, this is an entertaining, thought-provoking memoir.audiobook. Audio or no audio, this is an entertaining, thought-provoking memoir.	2002-12-31
US	49403816	R1MPA6LDN1I03F	0553582747	255570129	From the Corner of His Eye	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Remarkably Woven Tale	Throughout From the Corner of His Eye, author Dean Koontz masterfully weaves multiple storylines in a remarkable manner. His initial storyboards must have been amazing, as all characters and their actions, no matter how remote they seem, have a profound affect on every other character. Their paths loop and twirl around each other, sometimes coming in direct contact, sometimes inadvertantly coming to near misses, but always changing the course of those around them.<br />Though this book is loosely based on a portion of Quantum Theory, this is also a fascinating look at \\"Chaos Theory\\" - you know, the one about the butterfly flapping its wings in China causes a California earthquake - in that actions that seem random may have dramatic consequenses on the near or distant future. Koontz reveals small portions of these connections page by page, keeping the reader anticipating how in the world this is all going to work out. Koontz's tone is so steady that he can flip from one character's storyline to another, and the reader will almost automatically jump into the other character's train of thought. His development of the main \\"bad guy\\" is nearly perfect as you watch him decend on a track of rational/mental instability into near madness.<br />You may have to muscle your way through the first 50 pages or so, while Koontz is \\"setting the mood\\".  He continutes to drive the story, but some of his metaphors and similies are a little over the top - he labored over them like a woman giving birth to a 12 pound baby.  Though it's not \\"high art\\", it might be the next best thing. Some suspension of disbelief is required, but hey, it's fiction. It had me reading wide-eyed until the very end.	2002-12-13
US	49403816	R9DN9QZK4HVK0	0788750062	554020976	The Shot	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Great Concept!  Poor Novel.	The concept of The Shot is brilliant - fictional hitman Tom Jefferson shuffling behind the scenes of actual history - sort of like the underworld's own Forrest Gump.  This turned out to be a grand example of \\"don't judge a book by its cover\\", because like a box of chocolates... well, The Shot was not what I expected.<br />There are flashes of great literary candy here, but all too often the effort feels mediocre.  Many of the characters, especially the faceless mob men, were so flat they could have been completely interchangeable.  Even the anti-hero seemed limp in every way but his actions.  One could honestly feel as though they don't know anything about Jefferson, and maybe that's the point, but in actuallity it left this reader not caring about him, his deeds, or his fate.  Most of Jefferson's motivation is still a mystery to me.  It seemed too simplistic to say he merely did it ONLY for the money.<br />The Shot will initially appeal to many a conspiracy theorist, but even that angle seemed somewhat weak.  The Kennedy assassination is almost an afterthought in the wake of the many behind-the-scenes meetings between the movers and shakers of \\"organized\\" crime.	2002-11-05
US	49403816	R3QRQI4RC485B1	0679431136	694344232	Congo	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Read the book. Don't wait for the movie. Or the tape.	(This review refers to the ABRIDGED AudioBook read by Judith Ivey.)<br />Some rare abridged audiobooks can capture the spirit and tone of a novel by cutting a great deal of literary chaff and leaving the listener with the meat of the story.  This abridgment of Congo is not one of them.  Nearly as lost as the plot's fabled city is Crichton's enjoyable and descriptive language. What the audience is left with feels like the comic book edition of the best-selling novel.  WHAM! goes the introduction! ZOOM! to each next scene!  Any subtlety Crichton had carefully placed in his words is left by the wayside in favor of actionactionaction.<br />Judith Ivey has a silky reading voice and her narration is smooth... until she encounters any sort of accent... and Congo's got a wide variety of dialects.  Her 'Texan' is poor, her 'British' is ridiculous (think Col. Critenden from Hogan's Heroes), her 'African' is insulting (some hybrid of staccato latino and mumbo-jungle), and her translation of Amy the gorilla's sign-language is just plain annoying (it almost sounded as if Ms. Ivey was plugging her OWN ears).  I would highly recommend Ms. Ivey if she were reading a tale that took place primarily in the American Upper Midwest (or a teleprompter).<br />Please read the book. Don't wait for the movie... or the tape.	2002-09-29
US	49403816	RRBXP9HOLR0UY	0399142894	999600769	The Last Heroes: A Men at War Novel	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Chronicle of Heroes or Lurid Romance Novel?	The Last Heroes' dust cover promises action, intrigue, war heroes, and a gripping story.  Author W.E.B. Griffin used all of these literary commodities very sparingly.  In fact, this novel dispenses itself according to the following formula:<br />Dialogue. Travel. Dialogue. Sex. Travel. Dialogue. (Repeat X 5) 2 pages of wartime action. (Back to start.)<br />This work of fiction was originally published \\"straight to paperback\\" and it reads like it.  I would fully expect to find Fabio as the cover model, Navy uniform unbuttoned to the waist, seducing several women at once.  Griffin seems almost obsessed with his characters' sex lives, as sexual encounters outnumber battle encounters somewhere around 12 scenes to 2.  When his characters aren't actually HAVING sex, Griffin luridly describes how they're wishing they were.<br />All sex aside, this book could have been reduced to about 20 pages of actual PLOT.  The storyteller plods along, filling the pages with near useless, pointless (read: boring) fluff.  Some might call this needless waste of words \\"character development\\", but I can summarize for you: The characters like dinner parties, they like to fly airplanes, and they have \\"itchy britches\\".  I kid you not: our \\"heroes\\" don't even receive their first set of orders from the Navy until after page 100.  The next plot turn is not revealed until page 266.  Actual heroic action?  It's on page 259-261 (Hardcover edition).  Don't blink.  You'll miss it.<br />In all fairness, Griffin's dialogue is sometimes clever, and he occasionally displayed some witty repartee, which doubled The Last Heroes' star count.  My recommendation to W.E.B. Griffin's fans: Stick to his other novels.  My recommendation to those who would like to be W.E.B. Griffin's fans: Don't start here.	2002-06-14
US	49403816	R3KK0P2IC16EHS	0060173858	974488934	Nathan's Run: A Novel	Books	3	12	16	N	N	Entertaining, Fast-Paced Adventure (But A Bit Formulaic)	Nathan Bailey had the life we wish nobody had to endure.  Orphaned, raised by an uncle plagued by personal demons, committed to a kiddie jail (primarily on the testimony of said uncle), and became a fugitive from the law all before reaching his teens.  It's easy to sympathize with Nathan as Mr. Gilstrap included many small details so unique to adolescence.  The way Nathan is portrayed to think and act are very much in character for a young man, albeit a VERY contientious one.  Most of the other characters were not given the same descriptive attention, unfortunately.  They're servicible and believable, but somewhat flat.<br />While reading Nathan's Run, I couldn't help but think policemen were given a bad rap in this book.  I doubt that Mr. Gilstrap has a vendetta against cops, but they are (with two exceptions) made to look incompetent, manipulative, career-driven, and cruel.  There is one particularly tense scene in which Nathan, smaller than normal for his pre-teen age, is brutalized by three policemen at once.  I understand that some may be necessary to advance a plot following a fugitive, but this stereotyping felt like the stuff of 100 Bad Cop movies.<br />Since this is a suspenseful tale with a young man at its center, I also believe Mr. Gilstrap alienated what might have been a massive audience, young adults, with generous portions of gratuitous profanity.  It was, in my opinion, largely unneccessary to have nearly every character have an extensive 4-letter vocabulary.<br />Still, Nathan's story is absorbing and tense to the last page.  Emotions crescendoed to such a peak in the final scene that if I weren't riding a city bus with my goatee'd &quot;big-guy&quot; image to uphold, I might have cried.  Honestly.<br />My recommendation would be this:  it's good, but not destined to be one of the &quot;greats&quot;.  Pick it up if you're in the mood for a fast-paced thriller.	2002-06-10
US	49403816	RJTLW6Z3XYFPK	0375406999	685045441	Without Remorse (Tom Clancy)	Books	2	2	6	N	N	The Audio Version Was Not Without Disappointment	This review refers to the abridged audio book, read by David Dukes.<br />The story was entertaining enough, but Mr. Dukes' reading was quite disappointing. He seemed to squeeze all of Mr. Clancy's many characters into one of a few vocal catagories: noble, pinched, gruff, and female. (The &quot;female&quot; voice, a too-soft falsetto southern belle, was particularly painful.) Many passages began with Mr. Dukes reading spoken dialogue which I mistook for a completely unintended character. Also, his voice tends to taper off at the ends of his sentances, I suppose for dramatic effect. I often got the impression that Mr. Dukes was thinking, &quot;Man, I really sound cool reading this really cool book...&quot;<br />FYI - On a side note, I'm not a fan of written or verbal profanity, and this book has more than its fair share.	2001-10-19
US	49403816	R3P3MZ4BGXOZPL	0553455818	651911036	The Tin Man	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Splash and Style... but Substance? Eh...	This review is in regard to the 5-CD set, skillfully read by Victor Garber. Mr. Garber's solo vocal dexterity is smooth and unswerving, giving each character enough distinction that the listener can easily recognize their speech patterns.<br />The Tin Man is a fast-paced story crafted to pull its audience in quickly then hold them in a vice grip. The tone is earnest, but there isn't much substance (ie: cohesive, compelling plot) behind the scene descriptions. The main character, Patrick McLanahan, is surprisingly shallow in this story. There is great potential for depth with his secret military background, but that is barely brushed over. His experiences as Sacramento's vigilante hero also harbor great possibilities for character examination, but they are unfortunately reduced to a sort of mad-marauder punch-em-up scenes. A little more cloak and dagger use of his technology would have been intriguing (and in character). It becomes clear by the end of the tale, the author was stretching for descriptions of super-suit inflicted pain: &quot;It felt like his hand had been sandwiched between the bumpers of two crashing cars...&quot; Also, there was a little more profanity than I personally prefer, and in many cases, it was unnecessary.<br />Overall, the story has a rather formulaic feel, but Victor Garber's fine performance makes it nonetheless entertaining.	2001-09-28
US	49403816	RE0LOYEHDTQYZ	0064408183	492869537	Weetzie Bat (10th Anniversary Edition)	Books	1	10	29	N	N	A Schizophrenic Carnival Ride - No, that's not a good thing.	As required reading in a Children's Literature course, Weezie Bat proved to be anything but appropriate for children.  Very adult themes taint what might have been an intriguing coming-of-age story.  What you get instead is a schizophrenic carnival ride with loud prose and little substance.<br />The utter rediculousness of several plot and character &quot;developments&quot; only magnify the discombobulated story telling.  The whole account begs for a real and edgy feel but hinges on a genie in a bottle (literally) to keep the preposterous story moving.  The characters are empty-headed students of hippies and Hollywood, owning absolutely no concept of action-vs-consequenses.  (What Weetzie wants, Weetzie gets.  That includes a baby that may have been conceived by any of three men.  And, yes, for some strange reason, they all thought that was a good idea.)  To describe them as &quot;supremely superficial&quot; would actually ascribe to them some depth.<br />If you're attempting to instill any sort of family-values in your kids/teens, avoid this book like the plague.  Or read it, if only out of morbid curiosity, to see how bad &quot;children's&quot; literature can get.	2001-07-18
US	49403816	R1DRSX3VWRDDTC	0763607762	363595414	Because of Winn-Dixie	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Wonderful -- Heartwarming!	A wonderfully pleasant read.  A heartwarming storyline with a lovable variety of characters and themes crafted in easy-to-read sentances and paragraphs.  Highly recommended for readers from ages 6 - 106!	2001-07-18
