US	49411409	R1DH13B2EKV8RL	1881859118	908427438	Disorder in the Court: Legal Laughs, Court Jests and Just Jokes culled from the Nation's Justice System	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	An unparalleled collection of hilarious courtroom anecdotes	Except in novels by Scott Turow, levity is not normally associated with courtroom testimony. But witnesses and defendants exhibit varying degrees of intelligence and comprehension, and misunderstandings result in genuinely funny responses. Sometimes the judge or attorney welcomes these moments. I especially liked the attorney's comment, when, upon request, a witness demonstrated a lewd gesture: \\"You enjoyed that, didn't you?\\" Then there was the judge who deferred sentencing until after the hunting season, so that the culprit could \\"take care of important things first.\\" There are as many double entendres as in Shakespeare, and about as many have sexual connotations. You can read the entire book in a couple of hours of laughter, and you'll be quoting your favorite quips for years.	2005-09-27
US	49411409	R18ZXO0LVPFI2R	0595363512	212842885	Dealing With Builders	Books	5	2	3	N	N	An essential how-to guide to homebuilding by an expert	Dealing With Builders is a comprehensive how-to manual for both novice and seasoned buyers of homes. The book walks a prospective purchaser, step by step, through the myriad stages, financial arrangements, and documents with which he or she will have to develop a comprehensive familiarity in order to shepherd the process of building a new home or buying an existing one to a successful conclusion. It also introduces the reader to the various professionals -- including foremen, supervisors, salespersons, lenders, and others -- whose interactions with a buyer and with each other must be carefully synchronized. It explains the argot of the construction industry term by term, and it includes worksheets, checklists, charts, and a litany of do's and don't's that if faithfully applied will transform a new home purchaser into a skilled negotiator.	2005-08-09
US	49411409	R195PJV5SMMHTA	0618509283	528177434	The Plot Against America: A Novel	Books	5	8	15	N	Y	A mature novel from a master storyteller	This perceptive novel by a highly educated man of letters and preeminent American writer is based on what in eighteenth-century England was known as a \\"conceit\\" - i.e., a concept, a hypothesis, fully developed and logically pursued - to wit, that the famed and idolized aviator Charles A. Lindbergh, who was also known as a Republican, a pacifist, an appeaser, and an Aryan supremacist, won the U.S. presidency after Franklin D. Roosevelt's second term in office and became a puppet and eventually (it was rumored) a captive of Nazi Germany. The elaboration of this conceit not only caricatures Lindbergh as a reticent stoic who \\"every few months summoned the gregariousness to address his ten favorite platitudes to the nation\\" (does this sound familiar?) but extends to such anomalies as a Jewish woman from the slums of New Jersey dancing with Hitler's foreign minister, Joachim von Ribbentrop, at a White House reception; or a learned rabbi running the Office of American Absorption, which - abetted by companies like Metropolitan Life Insurance Company that in the 1930's and 1940's were hardly known as equal opportunity employers - resettled suburban American Jews in rural hamlets where there was neither demand for their skills nor tolerance for their religious beliefs; or the murder of radio newsman Walter Winchell for his diatribes against the Lindbergh administration. In sum, this novel persuasively and memorably depicts what might have occurred had the Henry Fords, Father Coughlins, and other Nazi sympathizers of the era prevailed.	2004-11-06
US	49411409	R2DQCQOQF3CFDB	0812972910	133873828	Hawthorne: A Life	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	An exemplary biography of a preeminent man of letters	This thoughtful and graceful biography of Nathanial Hawthorne cogently captures his human complexity, which in turn reflects the polarities of the American character and experience that he vividly described in his self-styled romances: head and heart, reason and emotion, reality and imagination, materialism and transcendentalism, Puritanism and Quakerism, republicanism and federalism, states' rights and national union, slavery and abolition, heritage and freedom, tradition and independence. Brenda Wineapple's book skillfully chronicles Hawthorne's early and recurrent poverty, peripateticism, Hamlet-like indecisiveness, ambivalence about writing, and tendency to observe rather than to participate in life; and, like a Dickens novel, her work presents the author's family and distinguished circle of friends as fully developed and plausibly motivated characters: Franklin Pierce, Emerson, Melville, and, at a greater remove, Stowe, Whitman, and Poe. This volume's evident scholarship - it contains more than one hundred pages of notes - is expressed in a highly palatable style that is also educative in its unobtrusive use of words sufficiently uncommon (e.g., atavistic, coruscate, metonymic, sodality, solipsistic, treacle) to cause some readers to consult their dictionaries frequently. In sum, this work is the triumphant achievement of an ambitious undertaking.	2004-10-24
US	49411409	R85H6RQPH5K3O	1852427507	984421874	The Piano Teacher (Serpent's Tail Classics)	Books	3	8	17	N	N	Pulp fiction at its dubious best	Imagine a young man lusting after his piano teacher, an older female professor of music at a famous university who lives with her domineering mother. He pursues; she resists; he persists; she presents a list of kinky demands that, coupled with a bout of merciless sexual teasing, cause him to plan and then to execute an escape. First, however, he feels compelled to punish her physically for not yielding immediately to his importunate demands, and so he beats her to the point of breaking her nose and even a rib. In a puritanical society such as ours that considers the baring of an actress' breast on television sufficiently obscene to warrant a hefty fine from governmental regulators, a careful reader of this catalogue of conventional perversions, fetishes, and cruelties may be tempted to discard it as pornography until he recalls that it has just been awarded a Nobel Prize for Literature. Puzzled, seeking some redemptive merit, such a reader may find it in the work's painstaking character development, in its rich store of anecdotes about classical composers, and in its lavish use of metaphors, elegantly translated from German by a skilled bilinguist whose own surname rendered in English is Newpenny. As the distinguished eighteenth-century lexicographer, Dr. Samuel Johnson, once wrote of a contemporary novelist's works, if you were to read Richardson [read Jelinek] for plot, you'd hang yourself. Ultimately, the reader is left to wonder about the judgment and mental acuity of those who surprisingly elevated this work from well-deserved obscurity twenty-one years after it was first published in German.	2004-10-14
US	49411409	RBY14WTMO9IR	1885119704	164587890	Refuge from the Reich: American Airmen and Switzerland During World War II	Books	3	3	7	N	N	A politically correct account of Swiss neutrality	Stephen Tanner's Refuge From The Reich is a compelling and informative account of the treatment of civilian and military refugees, escapees, and evadees at the hands of the Swiss under the military authority of General Henri Guisan during the Second World War. Interned at ski resorts for the duration of the war, the U.S. officers and men were afforded the same sparse allowances, poorly heated accommodations, spartan living conditions, and subsistence diets of 1,500 calories per day that characterized the lives of Swiss burghers, who were then as dependent on Germany for foodstuffs and coal as their current descendants are for tourism, and whose antipathy to Germans remains a part of the Swiss national character today. The airmen's boredom and eagerness to return to the fray are convincingly depicted, as are their often successful attempts to escape and the deplorable, substandard conditions at the prisons (principally at Wauwilermoos, the swamp of Wauwil) to which they were sent if caught - generally by the Swiss army, since the civilian population usually abetted such efforts, helping the fliers reach the French underground at Annecy. The work limns in great detail the singularity of a determinedly independent, heavily armed, and, in the interior mountainous regions, largely impregnable democratic state existing in the midst of Nazi-occupied Europe and providing the only proximate refuge for thousands of airmen trapped in damaged and otherwise doomed planes, which often were guided to safe landings at the Dubendorf airport and elsewhere by the Swiss air force. The planes bore such nicknames as Dinah Mite, Touchy Tess, Twat's It To You, and Est Nulla Via Invia Virtuti, the last - an allusion to the Sybil's encouragement to Aeneas in Ovid's Metamorphoses, and rendered in English as \\"No path is impassable to courage\\" - christened by an educated pilot named Martin Andrews, who later became a courier for U.S. spymaster Allen Dulles. Quite well written, the book can be criticized mainly for its tendency to whitewash the pilots' motives in escaping to Switzerland by asserting and attempting to document that there was not a single instance of a physically uninjured airman diverting an undamaged, well fueled bomber or fighter craft to Switzerland in order to escape the stresses of combat. Similarly, the work characterizes Allied bombings of Basel, Schaffhausen, and Zurich as invariably accidental strafings by disoriented pilots lost in cloud cover. For the view that such attacks were at least sometimes motivated by a clear intention to destroy industrial plants whose output contributed to the Wehrmacht's war effort, the reader is directed to Paul Erdman's factual if often maligned novel, The Swiss Account.riticized mainly for its tendency to whitewash the pilots' motives in escaping to Switzerland by asserting and attempting to document that there was not a single instance of a physically uninjured airman diverting an undamaged, well fueled bomber or fighter craft to Switzerland in order to escape the stresses of combat. Similarly, the work characterizes Allied bombings of Basel, Schaffhausen, and Zurich as invariably accidental strafings by disoriented pilots lost in cloud cover. For the view that such attacks were at least sometimes motivated by a clear intention to destroy industrial plants whose output contributed to the Wehrmacht's war effort, the reader is directed to Paul Erdman's factual if often maligned novel, The Swiss Account.  <br />	2004-09-11
US	49411409	RQKASUTMQX8AV	0826330347	598904449	Dark Matters: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A timely revisiting of McCarthyism	In the era of the probably unconstitutional, Orwellian-entitled \\"Patriot Act,\\" Dark Matters examines class warfare and the suppression of civil liberties on several levels: social, political, and moral. Like most good novels, it explores the intersections of landed aristocrats with middle-class strivers, principally academics, as well as the exploitation of the working classes by management, and with compelling psychological insights and unexpected flashes of humor it presents an international cast of well differentiated characters espousing varying political beliefs. The principal constituencies of a public university are perceptively portrayed, from the toadying administration bending to the state legislature's will through academic politics among the faculty to the students coping with hypocritical parietal rules and issues such as abortion that remain timely and controversial. It candidly reveals the limited career possibilities for humanities graduates, such as working in a regional post office's dead letter department, and it captures the incipient sexual revolution of the mid-twentieth century. Structured as a universe of credible characters interacting in a realistic plot, Dark Matters is a serious, well crafted novel written by a full professor of English and writing, published by a neighboring state's university press. This work is highly suitable not only for all readers of substantive fiction but also for aspiring writers as a grounding in the traditions that must shape the flowering of their individual talents.<br /><br />For example, a character is described as having a \\"butterfly mind\\" because her conversation flits from topic to topic in an associative stream-of-thought pattern. As a gifted author should, Professor Levitt then illustrates this characteristic with a typical manifestation:<br /><br />\\"A guy and three gals sat down at the vacant table to my left. One of them, Brenda Oates, I knew from my Italian Renaissance history course. She always wore a butterfly pin on her right shoulder, and must have owned dozens of them because I never saw her wear the same one twice. The pin aptly corresponded to her butterfly mind. She flitted from one subject to another, talking in a stream of associations.<br /><br />\\"The fellow said: 'You'll never guess what I heard today. Some Negroes are forming their own fraternity. Christ, what next: hog maws and chitterlings on the school menu?'<br /><br />\\"Brenda took her cue. 'We used to have a Negro cook, Jemima, I never liked that name, you know. My favorite is Darlene. A cousin of mine had that name: Darlene Densmor. She acted in a movie. But she retired, you know. My dad says that as soon as he retires he's going to take me canoeing in Acadia State Park. That's in Canada. Did you know that they speak two languages up there? English and French. God, I really hate my French class! The other day, the other kids in that class laughed at me when the professor said he knew children this high' - she held her hand about two feet above the floor - 'who could speak French fluently. \\"Well, of course, they can,\\" I said, \\"they're probably French.\\" I really thought I'd like to visit France, but not any more. They all speak French there.'\\"pin on her right shoulder, and must have owned dozens of them because I never saw her wear the same one twice. The pin aptly corresponded to her butterfly mind. She flitted from one subject to another, talking in a stream of associations.    \\"The fellow said: 'You'll never guess what I heard today. Some Negroes are forming their own fraternity. Christ, what next: hog maws and chitterlings on the school menu?'      \\"Brenda took her cue. 'We used to have a Negro cook, Jemima, I never liked that name, you know. My favorite is Darlene. A cousin of mine had that name: Darlene Densmor. She acted in a movie. But she retired, you know. My dad says that as soon as he retires he's going to take me canoeing in Acadia State Park. That's in Canada. Did you know that they speak two languages up there? English and French. God, I really hate my French class! The other day, the other kids in that class laughed at me when the professor said he knew children this high' - she held her hand about two feet above the floor - 'who could speak French fluently. \\"Well, of course, they can,\\" I said, \\"they're probably French.\\" I really thought I'd like to visit France, but not any more. They all speak French there.'\\"	2004-07-19
US	49411409	R1QDOAE5X8RTR4	0312271190	753868454	The Judgment of Caesar: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	3	3	22	N	Y	A parable of the current epoch	Julius Caesar, who fancied himself a direct descendant of Venus, the goddess of love, was, his soldiers sang, &quot;every woman's husband and every man's husband.&quot;  His well documented bisexuality affected his judgment as he vacillated between the two sibling contenders to the Egyptian throne, fifteen year-old Ptolemy and twenty-one year-old Cleopatra, his sister-wife, who were worshipped by some but not all Egyptians as the living embodiments of the divine Isis and Osiris. As if this motif is not sufficiently dark, the author-narrator overlays an elaborate apologia for homosexuality in general and for pederasty in particular that is inarguably subcultural (pages 151-2). Relieving these somber aspects is a universality of theme and plot so applicable to our terror-prone times as to constitute a parable, just as Biblical accounts of conflicts between Syrians and Jews remind us of current events in the mideast. A few quotations employing Shakespearean chiasmus and Orwellian new-speak will suffice to demonstrate these parallels.  &quot;I come not to threaten Egypt, but to embrace her.&quot;  (Compare Antony's ironic assurance to the Roman mob: &quot;I come to bury Caesar, not to praise him.&quot;) &quot;The whole world shall be unified under Rome, and Rome shall be unified under Caesar, but, for that to happen, Egypt [read Iraq] must be pacified and brought under Caesar's sway.&quot;  &quot;Cleopatra has promised to give Caesar a son [who will] found a dynasty to rule the whole world forever,&quot; and when she becomes pregnant Caesar &quot;has no doubt that it is his,&quot; ignoring her various trysts with others. But, the narrator's son, Meto, wonders, &quot;What if the life of anyone - even an enslaved captive - mattered as much as anyone else's, even Caesar's?&quot; (Remember the post-9/11 military overflights above Washington, D.C., which continued long after those over New York ceased?) When Caesar is in danger of being defeated by Ptolemy's forces, the narrator salutarily observes that &quot;the death of the so-called great [men, especially those whose hubris encourages sycophants to declare in their approving presence that they were divinely chosen to lead] is often more squalid and terrifying [Mussolini comes to mind] than the deaths of their more humble subjects.&quot;ator salutarily observes that &quot;the death of the so-called great [men, especially those whose hubris encourages sycophants to declare in their approving presence that they were divinely chosen to lead] is often more squalid and terrifying [Mussolini comes to mind] than the deaths of their more humble subjects.&quot;	2004-07-15
US	49411409	R1VCREUYJ7KGX9	0060392452	194848581	Stupid White Men ...And Other Sorry Excuses for the State of the Nation!	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A disturbing but hilarious indictment of the establishment	Michael Moore's populism rails amusingly at the ascension to the U.S. presidency of a man whose title he invariably places in quotation marks. At the same time, he catalogues an alarming series of alleged malfeasances: the disenfranchising of tens of thousands of black voters in Florida well before the 2000 elections; Republican funding of the author's stumping for Ralph Nader in that state in a successful effort to help split the Democratic vote; the administration-arranged spiriting of Bin Laden family members and associates out of the U.S. after the events of September 11, 2001; the extreme and widening polarization of rich and poor; the similarities between Republican and Democratic politicians and platforms, e.g., President Clinton's granting the automobile industry an exemption from mandated average fuel economy standards for suburban utility vehicles; the ineptitude of former Vice President Gore's campaign. This book helps to explain the apathy among so many qualified American voters who stay away from the ballot box, and it makes the reader wonder why Mr. Gore and other prominent Democrats still holding national offices pulled their punches until recently, seemingly afraid to go on the attack.	2004-03-24
US	49411409	R6A06YNC95VLK	0385510438	817294609	The Last Juror (Grisham, John)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Quite simply, a masterpiece	The Last Juror begins with humor and ends with pathos. In between, its author paints a detailed panorama of the life of a small Mississippi town called Clanton in the 1970's, when Brown v. Board of Education had not been implemented, few blacks succeeded in registering to vote, and the legal system was corrupt. We watch the town's center of gravity shift from downtown to the suburbs as genuine interracial friendships are formed in an era of token toleration. The plot is painstakingly and plausibly constructed; the characters from both races are fully developed; the ethnic and religious stereotypes that characterize some of Grisham's earlier novels are refreshingly absent; and the writing is flawless. The most sympathetically portrayed woman is a dignified, well-spoken black matron, whose large, successful family is daringly portrayed in a two-part article appearing on the front page of  the local newspaper, which is owned by the protagonist.  The most respected merchant, owner of  a clothing store, is a Hungarian immigrant. The importance of religion to both races is emphasized in a detailed description of scores of local churches, their congregations, and their ministers. Grisham seems to have mellowed and matured to the point that speculation about his rumored interest in entering politics appears warranted.	2004-02-16
US	49411409	R704DOIQEYUYM	0385477155	220129004	The Singular Mark Twain: A Biography	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A comprehensive evocation of a much-loved icon	Fred Kaplan's perceptive and entertaining biography of America's premier writer brings to life not only the familiar Mark Twain the humorist and man of letters, but all of his other manifold aspects (or &quot;selves,&quot; as the author liked to call them, perceiving himself as the plural Mark Twain) as well: the versatile riverboat pilot, panner for gold, and inventor of mucilage; the devoted family man who (like all successful men, according to Dwight David Eisenhower) had married above his station and remained faithful and passionately affectionate to a loving, responsive woman who joined him in defying Victorian strictures to the extent of occasionally holding hands in public, and who, like Abigail Adams, shared his professional life, reading and vetting everything he wrote, and also raised and disciplined their daughters, managed the household, tolerated and sometimes even enjoyed his profanity, and to a degree came to share his indifference to religion; the self-made writer who won acceptance into the highest ranks of the nation's literary, cultural, political, and professional life; the world traveler who became widely venerated abroad; the impulsive, chronically unsuccessful businessman who lost a fortune investing in printing &quot;compositors&quot; and hairpins but rebuffed an invitation to purchase shares in the nascent telecommunications industry; the political liberal, who loved &quot;Negro&quot; culture and often sang &quot;Swing Low, Sweet Chariot&quot; and, in bereft moments, Stephen Foster's &quot;Why Do The Beautiful Die,&quot; and who deplored actual slavery in America, virtual slavery in the Belgian Congo, feudalism in Russia, anti-Semitism in Austria, and aggrandizement in religious institutions; the sensualist who admired the unselfconscious naturalness of uninhibited peoples in Hawaii, Fiji, and Nicaragua; the iconoclast who believed that Jesus was born but not raised and would never return to a randomly cruel world in which one incarnation was sufficient for anyone, and who agreed with an overheard slave's prayer, &quot;Come yo'self, Lord, an' doan be sendin' yo' son, 'cause this ain't no time fo' chillun&quot;; and the survivor, who saw his infant son and eventually his fragile wife succumb to heart disease, a daughter to meningitis, and a second daughter to epilepsy, leaving only a third daughter to survive him - and, even more sadly, although unknown to him, one whose own daughter was to commit suicide at age fifty-four, ending the line, and lending retrospective pathos to his geriatric admiration and acculturation of bright young girls as ersatz granddaughters.s sufficient for anyone, and who agreed with an overheard slave's prayer, &quot;Come yo'self, Lord, an' doan be sendin' yo' son, 'cause this ain't no time fo' chillun&quot;; and the survivor, who saw his infant son and eventually his fragile wife succumb to heart disease, a daughter to meningitis, and a second daughter to epilepsy, leaving only a third daughter to survive him - and, even more sadly, although unknown to him, one whose own daughter was to commit suicide at age fifty-four, ending the line, and lending retrospective pathos to his geriatric admiration and acculturation of bright young girls as ersatz granddaughters.	2004-02-12
US	49411409	RUQBRALOJTT6J	0743244427	36588324	A Mighty Heart: The Brave Life and Death of My Husband, Danny Pearl	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A moving rendition of sorrow and survival	The universality of this autobiographical account of coping with the barbaric slaughter of a beloved husband and father-to-be is mirrored, in microcosm, in its author's mixed Hispanic, Chinese, Black, and Caucasian lineage. It is a triumph of the universal human spirit that Mariane Pearl has courageously risen above bitterness and hatred in reaffirmation of the challenges and joys of living. Her moving memorial of her late husband's personal and professional achievements has elicited tributes from world figures and ordinary citizens on all continents, and is itself a testament to the indomitability of love and faith in a world that increasingly resembles a theater of the absurd.	2004-01-04
US	49411409	RLS9C1H9DRZCM	0874411742	546313270	The Unity Principle: The Shaping of Jewish History	Books	5	12	12	N	N	An elegantly written, scholarly review of Jewish history	This distillation of the wisdom gained in a lifetime of scholarly inquiry and teaching by a professor of Jewish history concisely presents complex concepts in a readily comprehensible and elegantly written style. Dr. Rivkin traces the metamorphoses of Jewish concepts of deity throughout the vicissitudes of Jewish historical experience, in the process documenting \\"the chosen people's\\" remarkable capacities for adaptation and survival. Inculcated and nurtured by scholars, priests, and prophets, the Jews' commitment to monotheism has remained constant through mutating prisms of experience and historical process. Indeed, Dr. Rivkin emphasizes, there is no simple or universal Jewish theology, but rather a process of searching for, rather than finding, an omnipotent deity who endowed humankind with free will and therefore with the capacities for both good and evil. Within this historical perspective, the author finds an underlying unity in the spectrum of Jewish beliefs from those of the ultra-orthodox through those of their secular and non-professing counterparts, and he identifies this unity with the liberating impulses of capitalistic globalization affecting all of humankind that are disproportionately implemented and advanced by urbanized, well-educated intellectuals, professionals, and merchants of Jewish descent. In short, this work constitutes a summary of world history with especial emphasis on the unique contributions made by those schooled in Jewish thought, values, and faith.	2003-12-18
US	49411409	R5A1ZRYY9ERQX	0595661610	975803885	Flatlands	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A superb debut novel from a highly talented author	Flatlands, a debut novel by Susan Sims Moody, is a carefully crafted canvas that skillfully presents a detailed picture of the personal, social, and professional life of a young female journalist. The characters with whom she interacts are painstakingly developed and represent the full spectrum of social strata; the geography is lovingly sketched; and the plot is plausibly advanced all the way through to its intriguing resolution. This work may be loosely compared, to its author's credit, with John Grisham's novel The Summons, which offers a somewhat similar but far less well constructed plot also involving concealed documents of critical importance but, unlike Flatlands, featuring implausible twists and reversals, and which by way of local color and geographical description substitutes mere aerial views of southern topography. Moreover, Flatlands especially excels in its achievement of capturing authentically deep-southern dialogue, cadences of speech, and vernacular idioms such as &quot;a meat and three.&quot; And, quite unlike Grisham's sloppy syntax and erratic grammar, the writing is elegant. One looks forward to this modest but highly talented author's next work, which is reportedly now in progress.	2003-12-13
US	49411409	RYM0N0H5PL2AD	0312972962	185709915	Roman Blood: A Novel of Ancient Rome (Novels of Ancient Rome)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	A Forsyte Saga set in ancient Rome	Roman Blood, the first of Steven Saylor's Sub Rosa series of novels, introduces Gordianus the Finder and his family, fictional characters who become increasingly memorable and claim a hold on our affections and sympathetic concern as they interact throughout the series with many famous historical characters, Julius Caesar, Pompey The Great, Marc Antony, Cicero, and Spartacus being the best known. The lawlessness of a great city - Rome - without a police force; the brutal treatment of slaves as chattel; the political intrigues and assassinations - all are faithfully portrayed in historically accurate and authentic detail. But perhaps the most remarkable aspect of these novels is their overlay of modern liberal values represented by the fictional narrator, who manumits (frees) and marries his Egyptian concubine, Bethesda, adopts a street urchin and a slave as his sons, understands and accepts the independence and sovereignty of women, reveres and serves the truth as much as Diogenes, and evinces a genuine religious piety. The characters are memorably drawn and individuated, and the finder's daughter, whose patronymic name Gordiana is shortened to Diana, is arguably the most appealing daughter in literature since Cordelia. Like all works of a master spirit, these books provide an edifying education, with recognizable allusions to ancient as well as Elizabethan literature, and they contain flashes of sardonic humor appropriate to the anatomy of the human condition that they reveal. They are among the very best of modern recreations of that peculiar combination of greatness and squalor that was ancient Rome.	2003-09-11
US	49411409	R3EV44FEELQQQD	344275500X	732705080	Hitler's Willinge Vollstrecker (English and German Edition)	Books	5	6	11	N	N	A depiction of still not-so-dormant European anti-Semitism	In the past year, European sympathy with the Arab cause and resentment of Israeli incursions against the Palestinians in general and against Yassir Arafat in particular have demonstrated that the derogatory and supposedly discredited views of Jews and Judaism held by the Nazis still lie just beneath the surface of political correctness. In order to combat such persistent bigotry, it is useful if appalling to keep in mind Professor Goldhagen's succinct account of such prejudices. The Nazis, he reminds us, viewed Jews as parasitic work shirkers who lived off others' labor, and who, like Shylock, lent money at usurious rates; as hypermaterialistic, dishonest, and thievish amassers of wealth stolen from the Volk (Michael Milken is believed by many present-day Germans to exemplify this characteristic); and as scheming evildoers who stirred up trouble and internecine strife within otherwise harmonious communities. Even the forged libel entitled \\"The Protocols Of The Elders Of Zion\\" retains currency in certain European and middle-eastern circles. The prevalence of such views in Nazi Germany made willing collaborators of ordinary Germans, and Professor Goldhagen has performed a valuable service in providing painstaking scholarly documentation of this inarguable historical phenomenon.	2003-02-22
US	49411409	R1JE7QJDBSH3DT	0385508042	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The King of Pulp is back in top form!	This novel is a successful reworking of many of the themes explored in the author's previous and rather disappointing effort, The Summons: addiction to alcohol and drugs; the rushing to market of prescription medications that turn out to have lethal side effects; ownership of expensive cars, private jets, and yachts; and upward as well as downward economic and social mobility. The geographical descriptions are more vivid, the characters (both major and minor) more memorable and completely drawn, their motivations more plausible, and their interrelationships more nuanced. Like A Painted House, this work is focused and carefully constructed, and it has been pruned of the excesses that mar some of the author's earlier novels. Its tragicomic resolution (or \\"unraveling,\\" as the author calls it), in which love triumphs over lust, and greed is balanced by conscience -- there is even a surprisingly moving case history illustrating the need for tort reform -- is both satisfying and convincing. This book's main flaw, however, lies in the writing. While one does not expect the supple prose of Thomas Hardy's The Mayor of Casterbridge, which developed similar themes of hubris and overreaching, one does wish that Mr. Grisham's editor had reminded him of the difference between amount and quantity, less and fewer, especially in regard to the very first sentence of Chapter One: \\"The shots that fired the bullets that entered Pumpkin's head were heard by no less than eight people.\\" Even my favorite sentence -- \\"The women gave each other looks that would terrify cobras.\\" -- could be improved: \\"The women exchanged glares that would have terrified cobras.\\"	2003-02-17
US	49411409	R2X1KUB9CN0WNZ	0375431977	782272714	The Summons	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pedestrian, noteworthy only for its author	The Summons, like The Firm, has improbable twists of plot, but the characters are less well delineated, the love interest abortive, the focus on money all too typical for an author who is also an attorney, and, as an antidote to Tom Clancy, the emphasis on Protestant heroes and Roman Catholic villains sadly characteristic. After the authentic portrayals of Depression-era southern poverty in A Painted House and of monolithic midwestern conformity in Skipping Christmas, this work is formulaic and disappointing, and one wonders whether it would be a best-seller if another author's name adorned the masthead.	2002-12-25
US	49411409	R2D09RMC7Q0UQ8	0767905385	262010179	Catch Me If You Can: The True Story of a Real Fake	Books	5	7	12	N	Y	A tragicomic tale of successful deceptions	In an era when it is not unknown for a head of state to be judicially appointed rather than popularly elected, a highly entertaining tale of fraud, deceit, imposture, and usurpation seems highly appropriate. Unlike recent cameos of a winsome actress caught shoplifting or of a Hollywood \\"bagel-baby\\" producer caught forging the signature of a granite-jawed actor on a personal check, the reader of Catch Me if You Can is treated to snapshots of the protagonist - a high-school dropout - passing a southern state's bar examination and appointed an assistant attorney general, awarded a license to practice medicine in the state of Georgia, hired as a university professor of sociology in Utah, handed the controls of a 707, hiring coeds to model Pan Am uniforms throughout Europe. One close-up of the \\"doctor\\" at work will suffice: \\"This guy had a complaint about his foot. 'I'm a pediatrician. You want a podiatrist.' That one had mysterious pains in his stomach. 'I suggest you talk to your own doctor.' A brunette had an 'odd, tight feeling' around her upper chest. I examined the brunette. Her brassiere was too small.\\" But the escape artist's \\"luck\\" also has a dark side: arrested and thrown into a dungeon in Perpignan, France; fed only bread, gruel, and water; never permitted to bathe, shave, or attend to other personal hygiene; harassed by sadistic guards; and left to rot for six months, he is finally extradited to humane Sweden suffering from severe malnutrition, vitamin deficiency, and double pneumonia. After recovering for six months, he is saved from extradition to Italy and then Spain, in whose barbaric prisons he faces certain death, by a compassionate judge who orders him deported to the U.S., whence, once he has served an additional four years' sentence, as an American citizen he cannot be extradited, and where he is ultimately rehabilitated and redeemed into a productive, married member of society who specializes in the detection and prevention of fraud.	2002-12-08
US	49411409	R2FOBDZXJ3OZTC	0375508597	362018127	The Age of Sacred Terror	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	A study of the dangers of a compressed sense of time	Have you ever remarked that Biblical accounts of battles between Syrians and Jews sound like current events with the names changed? Does Arab insistence on a return to pre-1967 borders as a precondition for a mideast settlement seem unrealistic to you in view of the facts on the ground? Do you see a connection between successful Israeli military thrusts and the reawakening (accompanied by protests and demonstrations) of dormant anti-Semitism in Europe, where the late nineteenth-century Czarist forgery of The Protocols of the Elders of Zion, which purported to document a Jewish plan to dominate the world, is attracting new believers? Do the two disparate attacks on the World Trade Center remind you of past terrorists' dual attempts (the second successful) to blow up a U.S. commercial airliner that took off from Athens? If so, then perhaps you can understand the radical Islamic sense of compressed time, in which past events, no matter how remote, retain an emotional and religious immediacy that motivates the planning and execution of fresh acts of terror against civilian targets in Israel, America (\\"the far enemy\\"), and the West which will continue to be characterized by a barbarity that makes sharia (Koranic law) look civilized by comparison. The Age of Sacred Terror traces the fanatic dedication of such Islamists (whose numbers appear staggeringly large) to precipitating the decline and fall of what they regard as the American global empire, as well as their determination to survive Armageddon and to hasten its arrival by slaughtering the infidels (primarily Christians and Jews) whose existential focus offends their belief in the ultimate reality of a hereafter populated only by devout Muslims. And the book offers prescriptions for concerted governmental efforts to prevent or at least to forestall future terrorist attacks with weapons of mass destruction. Compellingly written with a judicious use of elucidative metaphor, this fascinating work achieves a clarity that seems effortlessly to hasten the reader on to its final pages.seems effortlessly to hasten the reader on to its final pages.	2002-11-30
US	49411409	R3VHBQUMLNDW5P	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	An engaging, scholarly study of civilian-military relations	At a time when a U.S. invasion of Iraq appears imminent and inevitable, this learned study of both the traditional and the more recent, iconoclastic theories of the proper relationship between the policies of state and the direction of military strategy documents the difficulties and dangers of preventing limited warfare from escalating beyond any semblance of civilian control. Supreme Command adds context and texture to the serious student's understanding of the history of the twentieth century and its wars, warriors, and statesmen, brilliantly limning biographical sketches of four statesmen who mastered military strategy and effectively controlled the apparently unstoppable momentum of battles by constant dialogues with generals quite willing to disagree with them, and who constructively shaped and limited the purposes and conduct of the wars over which they presided politically. Like characters in a great novel, Lincoln, Grant, and Meade; Clemenceau, Foch, and Petain; Churchill, Brooke, and Montgomery; Ben-Gurion, Yigal Allon, and Yigal Yadin - all come memorably alive as fallible beings with strengths and weaknesses, successes and failures. With an undeniably timely sense of foreboding, the author - a professor of strategic studies at Johns Hopkins University - examines the applicability of these and other historical precedents to the nuclear era, in which the dangers of war as the crudest tool of diplomacy threaten to outweigh by far its usefulness as an instrument of statecraft and polity.	2002-11-06
US	49411409	R1MSVF95IGQ83V	0921912668	147900873	La Place De La Concorde Suisse~John Mcphee	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A faithful rendition of the Swiss military tradition	In German, La Place de la Concorde Suisse is rendered Concordiaplatz, and it is visible from the Jungfraujoch, which means \\"virgin saddle,\\" and which is reached via funicular railway from Interlaken. Depending upon the season, one can either hike or ski from the Jungfraujoch down the Aletsch glacier to Concordiaplatz and view the redoubt containing the sunken armory described in McPhee's book. There may even be a visible contingent of soldiers guarding and maintaining it, just as their brethren maintain the explosives stashed in the outerworks of all key bridges in the country, or inspect the radar installations on key peaks such as the Weissfl&uuml;hgipfel above Davos. As one who lived and worked in Switzerland for eight years, and whose published memoir, Living Among The Swiss, is listed on this website, I can attest to the accuracy of McPhee's account. Most of my business colleagues were required to take annual two- or three-week military leaves, and one sees soldiers everywhere: on trains, in ski resorts, along low and vulnerable mountain passes such as those north of Sargans, and, increasingly, at airports. Their efficiency of organization has been admired not only by the Israelis, who imitated it, but also by the Russian defense minister, and McPhee accurately captures their esprit de corps - in the process expanding, as usual, the reader's vocabulary.	2002-10-26
US	49411409	R2A232ZZT85VWC	5557082956	147900873	La Place de La Concorde Suisse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A faithful rendition of the Swiss military tradition	In German, La Place de la Concorde Suisse is rendered Concordiaplatz, and it is visible from the Jungfraujoch, which means \\"virgin saddle,\\" and which is reached via funicular railway from Interlaken. Depending upon the season, one can either hike or ski from the Jungfraujoch down the Aletsch glacier to Concordiaplatz and view the redoubt containing the sunken armory described in McPhee's book. There may even be a visible contingent of soldiers guarding and maintaining it, just as their brethren maintain the explosives stashed in the outerworks of all key bridges in the country, or inspect the radar installations on key peaks such as the Weissfl&uuml;hgipfel above Davos. As one who lived and worked in Switzerland for eight years, and whose published memoir, Living Among The Swiss, is listed on this website, I can attest to the accuracy of McPhee's account. Most of my business colleagues were required to take annual two- or three-week military leaves, and one sees soldiers everywhere: on trains, in ski resorts, along low and vulnerable mountain passes such as those north of Sargans, and, increasingly, at airports. Their efficiency of organization has been admired not only by the Israelis, who imitated it, but also by the Russian defense minister, and McPhee accurately captures their esprit de corps - in the process expanding, as usual, the reader's vocabulary.	2002-10-26
US	49411409	R2ESI4MIJARUMH	0684871793	272714040	The End of Days: Fundamentalism and the Struggle for the Temple Mount	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	An urgent plea for relativism and humility	Deciphering the signs pointing to all-out war in the Middle East is the passionate purpose of this book, which analyzes the motivations of fundamentalist and evangelical Christians who support Israel in its struggles against the Palestinians in general and in its often violent disputes over the Temple Mount in particular because their literal interpretations of Scriptural passages lead them to believe that these current events represent enactments of the \\"Endtime\\" in which the Messiah will reappear and perform the Final Judgment. A decidedly unbenign corollary of such beliefs, of course, is the expectation that the majority of Jews will be killed during the ensuing Armageddon, and that only the few who convert in time will join the ranks of true believers who enter the Kingdom of Heaven. In tracing these volatile beliefs, summarized under the rubric of \\"dispensational premillennialism,\\" along with the parallel convictions of Jewish messianists and the unswerving commitments of Muslims to the defense of the sacred precincts on the Mount, Gershom Gorenberg contrasts the literalism with which a \\"political arrangement over thirty-five acres,\\" the area of the Temple Mount, \\"is described as a cosmological defeat of light by darkness\\" - i.e., an accommodation preventing the destroyed Temple's rebuilding, an essential precondition to fulfillment of the Doomsday scripts of both Christian and Jewish fundamentalists - with the moderate evangelicals' rejection of the Crusades as a betrayal of Jesus, who \\"saw the image of God in every person he met.\\" The author alternates passages of philosophical reflection with folksy descriptions of meetings with rabbis, ministers, scientists, politicians, and philosophers, and even with an analogy of the current crisis in the Middle East to the 1993 conflagration in Waco, Texas, which he interprets as a salient and pertinent example not only of the importance of understanding symbols in any dialogue or confrontation between adherents of different religions or cultures but also of the inevitable consequences of failing to heed or to speak one's interlocutor's symbolic language.erent religions or cultures but also of the inevitable consequences of failing to heed or to speak one's interlocutor's symbolic language.	2002-10-15
US	49411409	R2MIKZHK72TMKG	0300058896	232041343	The Tyranny of Taste: The Politics of Architecture and Design in Britain, 1550-1960 (The Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An interdisciplinary tour de force!	This work by a professor of art history and architecture at the University of Essex in England constitutes a Great Books course in miniature. From the window of his specialties, Jules Lubbock reviews four centuries of political, economic, and social history, delineating their influences - including those of sumptuary laws, or restrictions upon consumption - upon aesthetic concepts of design and town planning, as well as the effects of theological, moral, and nationalistic ideas on the evolving physical appearance of Britain in general and of London in particular. The reader's familiarity with Plato and Locke, Disraeli and Bevan, Pugin and Inigo Jones, is extended and made vivid. Discourses on the design of everything from buildings, carpets, and furniture to items as seemingly insignificant as an excessively or inappropriately decorated tea cup, cream jug, or gas lamp are brilliantly analyzed for their larger social and moral implications. Although Professor Lubbock's point of view is unmistakably Protestant Episcopalian rather than high-church Anglican Catholic, his nationalism therefore betraying a clear and not atypical though well-compensated bias against absolutism, Roman Catholicism, and Islam, these very British traits nonetheless do not prevent him from depicting and appreciating fully - even celebrating - the ecclesiastical beauty and pervasive influence of classical or Gothic, French (e.g., Pugin) and Italianate art and architecture. The author traces the transfer of power from the landed aristocracy - whose maintenance of magnificent country estates he attributes not to intraclass rivalry but rather to a benign desire and recognized duty to provide hospitality and employment through \\"housekeeping\\" by leading a simple, virtuous life at home in the country in preference to residing in the more appealing, sophisticated, and corrupting milieu of London - to the gentrified commercial classes whose ascendancy resulted from the Industrial Revolution and the concomitant increase of international trade. True to his holistic approach, Professor Lubbock makes frequent references to the reflections of these trends of intellectual history in British philosophy and, especially, literature, citing Shakespeare, Milton, Addison and Steele, Pope, Hume, Dickens, and Wordsworth explicitly and novelists such as Fielding, Richardson, Sterne, Smollett, Austen, and Thackeray implicitly - in so doing, incidentally giving the lie to the New Critics' foci upon literature in a vacuum and upon \\"universal\\" character development to the exclusion of historical context. The author's own book is filled with handome reproductions and illustrations of the works of art and architecture that he so expertly describes, and it contains amusing parables written by some of the renowned personages into whom he breathes renewed vitality and relevance.omitant increase of international trade. True to his holistic approach, Professor Lubbock makes frequent references to the reflections of these trends of intellectual history in British philosophy and, especially, literature, citing Shakespeare, Milton, Addison and Steele, Pope, Hume, Dickens, and Wordsworth explicitly and novelists such as Fielding, Richardson, Sterne, Smollett, Austen, and Thackeray implicitly - in so doing, incidentally giving the lie to the New Critics' foci upon literature in a vacuum and upon \\"universal\\" character development to the exclusion of historical context. The author's own book is filled with handome reproductions and illustrations of the works of art and architecture that he so expertly describes, and it contains amusing parables written by some of the renowned personages into whom he breathes renewed vitality and relevance.	2002-10-12
US	49411409	R21BVCXVJTYJ0K	0300058896	232041343	The Tyranny of Taste: The Politics of Architecture and Design in Britain, 1550-1960 (The Paul Mellon Centre for Studies in British Art)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An interdisciplinary tour de force!	This work by a professor of art history and architecture at the University of Essex in England constitutes a Great Books course in miniature. From the window of his specialties, Jules Lubbock reviews four centuries of political, economic, and social history, delineating their influences - including those of sumptuary laws, or restrictions upon consumption - upon aesthetic concepts of design and town planning, as well as the effects of theological, moral, and nationalistic ideas on the evolving physical appearance of Britain in general and of London in particular. The reader's familiarity with Plato and Locke, Disraeli and Bevan, Pugin and Inigo Jones, is extended and made vivid. Discourses on the design of everything from buildings, carpets, and furniture to items as seemingly insignificant as an excessively or inappropriately decorated tea cup, cream jug, or gas lamp are brilliantly analyzed for their larger social and moral implications. Although Professor Lubbock's point of view is unmistakably Protestant Episcopalian rather than high-church Anglican Catholic, his nationalism therefore betraying a clear and not atypical though well-compensated bias against Roman Catholicism and Islam, these very British traits nonetheless do not prevent him from depicting and appreciating fully - even celebrating - the ecclesiastical beauty and pervasive influence of classical or Gothic, French (e.g., Pugin) and Italianate art and architecture. The author traces the transfer of power from the landed aristocracy - whose maintenance of magnificent country estates he attributes not to intraclass rivalry but rather to a benign desire and recognized duty to provide hospitality and employment through \\"housekeeping\\" by leading a simple, virtuous life at home in the country in preference to residing in the more appealing, sophisticated, and corrupting milieu of London - to the gentrified commercial classes whose ascendancy resulted from the Industrial Revolution and the concomitant increase of international trade. True to his holistic approach, Professor Lubbock makes frequent references to the reflections of these trends of intellectual history in British philosophy and, especially, literature, citing Shakespeare, Milton, Addison and Steele, Pope, Hume, Dickens, and Wordsworth explicitly and novelists such as Fielding, Richardson, Sterne, Smollett, Austen, and Thackeray implicitly - in so doing, incidentally giving the lie to the New Critics' foci upon literature in a vacuum and upon \\"universal\\" character development to the exclusion of historical context. The author's own book is filled with handome reproductions and illustrations of the works of art and architecture that he so expertly describes, and it contains amusing parables written by some of the renowned personages into whom he breathes renewed vitality and relevance.	2002-10-12
US	49411409	R2PWH9IC8HLIRY	0785811281	425075008	The Jewish Experience	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	The essential reference anthology in its field	This collection of essays, short stories, memoirs, and excerpts from novels ranges from subjects as diverse as theology, history, Jewish humor, and Holocaust survival to Erica Jong's reflections on sexual fulfillment. It is a book which should be owned by every family interested in studying the roots and multifaceted social contributions of a people whose religion emerged nearly four centuries before the birth of Joshua, \\"whom the Gentiles Jesus call.\\"	2002-10-12
US	49411409	RBRL20EM40KMB	0306807327	584148952	The Theater Essays Of Arthur Miller	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Classic essays on the nature of drama	These collected essays, first published in such periodicals as The New York Times, The New York Herald Tribune, or Atlantic Monthly, trace the origins of modern drama in Greek tragedy and comedy. At least four of them should be required reading in any introductory course in British and American literature: The Salesman Has A Birthday; Tragedy And The Common Man; The Nature Of Tragedy; and The Family In Modern Drama. The last of these contains a memorable phrase that furnished the title of the selection of the late U.S. journalist Daniel Pearl's essays, At Home In The World. One brief quotation from Tragedy And The Common Man that seems especially relevant to the present era will suffice: &quot;The Greeks could probe the very heavenly origin of their ways and return to confirm the rightness of laws.&quot;	2002-10-12
US	49411409	R2UM9TYUKDVQ77	0738203408	337159473	Drawing the Line: Science and the Case for Animal Rights	Books	5	2	4	N	Y	Yes, Virginia, your puppy does have a soul!	In Drawing The Line, animal-rights attorney and law professor Steven M. Wise reprises and extends the arguments he presented in his highly successful first book, Rattling The Cage, on behalf of the legal personhood of chimpanzees and bonobos to that of gorillas, orangutans, dolphins, parrots, elephants, dogs, and honeybees, comparing their abilities to think, reason, remember, deceive, and play-act with those of his precocious four year-old son, Christopher. His goal is simply and modestly stated: \\"Shifts occur only after people come to believe that something is possible. Making the argument that at least some nonhuman animals should have basic legal rights and be recognized as legal persons is the first step toward informing policymakers, judges, and the public about what is known, and, therefore, attaining the goal.\\" In the process, Professor Wise both confirms with scholarly and scientific citations what the reader intuitively expects - namely, that primates are more intelligent than other forms of animal life - and avoids such excesses as advocating vegetarianism which have too often vitiated the polemics of activists in the field. Like Rattling The Cage, Drawing The Line is highly readable, informative, educative, and entertaining. As Milton said, \\"A good book is the life blood of a master spirit,\\" a classification to which the learned Professor Wise himself clearly belongs.	2002-07-02
US	49411409	R3P59CEMJKHVVO	074324317X	474481314	At Home in the World	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Pearls from a master journalist	The title of this selection of articles by the late Daniel Pearl has been taken from a theater essay by the playwright Arthur Miller entitled \\"The Family in Modern Drama.\\" Miller describes the role of a family's breadwinner, whom he envisions as a traditional paterfamilias, as making the world just as familiar and comfortable a home as his immediate family environment. Dan Pearl succeeded notably in that enterprise, writing with professional detachment, objectivity, elegance, humor, and a tincture of scholarship about the ironies of the human condition in far-flung, exotic places - India, where cows may be sacred but leather goods are manufactured; Iran, whose youths may publicly spout anti-American slogans but scheme to obtain in, say, Turkey, a U.S. visa \\"to study, perchance to stay\\" - an allusion to Hamlet's \\"to sleep, perchance to dream\\"; even Kosovo, where \\"genocide\\" turned out to be \\"small acts of intimate barbarity.\\" Throughout his educative articles, which he honed until he heard the sentences \\"sing,\\" Dan Pearl exhibits the total lack of malice, the calm and perceptive gaze, and the disinclination to histrionics for which his father justly praises him in a prefatory eulogy. The articles fit perfectly what the book's jacket calls the Journal's \\"iconic middle column,\\" and together they constitute a lasting tribute to their late author.	2002-07-02
US	49411409	R1Y26EVI8PIE1R	074324317X	474481314	At Home in the World	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Pearls from a master journalist	The title of this selection of articles by the late Daniel Pearl has been taken from a theater essay by the playwright Arthur Miller entitled \\"The Family in Modern Drama.\\" Miller describes the role of a family's breadwinner, whom he envisions as a traditional paterfamilias, as making the world just as familiar and comfortable a home as his immediate family environment. Dan Pearl succeeded notably in that enterprise, writing with professional detachment, objectivity, elegance, humor, and a tincture of scholarship about the ironies of the human condition in far-flung, exotic places - India, where cows may be sacred but leather goods are manufactured; Iran, whose youths may publicly spout anti-American slogans but scheme to obtain in, say, Turkey, a U.S. visa \\"to study, perchance to stay\\" - an allusion to Hamlet's \\"to sleep, perchance to dream\\"; even Kosovo, where \\"genocide\\" turned out to be \\"small acts of intimate barbarity.\\" Throughout his educative articles, which he honed until he heard the sentences \\"sing,\\" Dan Pearl exhibits the total lack of malice, the calm and perceptive gaze, and the disinclination to histrionics for which his father justly praises him in a prefatory eulogy. The articles fit perfectly what the book's jacket calls the Journal's \\"iconic middle column,\\" and together they constitute a lasting tribute to their late author.	2002-07-02
US	49411409	RK2BDH553OTEB	0140275363	488928067	The Iliad	Books	5	177	193	N	N	A readable Iliad in modern idiom	Robert Fagles's translation of Homer's Iliad is spiritually if not literally true to the original. Both versions repeat set speeches and descriptions in precisely the same words, and the translation exhibits a fairly regular rhythmic beat. But Homer's Greek was chanted, and the set passages were like refrains in which listeners could, if they chose, join in as a chorus. In English, the repetitions sometimes become tedious, especially when the same speech is given three times in two pages, as in the relay of Zeus's orders in Book II. Especially noteworthy is Bernard Knox's long and fascinating Introduction, a masterpiece of literary criticism and scholarship which conveys Homer's grim attitude toward war, the interplay of divine and human will, and the ancient concepts of honor, courage, and virility in the face of the stark finality of death. Knox also includes a succinct explanation of the quantitative, rather than accentual, basis of Greek (and Latin) verse. For easy readability, Fagles's translation is without rival. For elegance and poetry, however, I recommend Richmond Lattimore's older but still gripping and fluent translation.	2002-06-29
US	49411409	R142J3Z5P1BKAQ	0670835102	627065254	The Iliad	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A readable Iliad in modern idiom	Robert Fagles's translation of Homer's Iliad is spiritually if not literally true to the original. Both versions repeat set speeches and descriptions in precisely the same words, and the translation exhibits a fairly regular rhythmic beat. But Homer's Greek was chanted, and the set passages were like refrains in which listeners could, if they chose, join in as a chorus. In English, the repetitions sometimes become tedious, especially when the same speech is given three times in two pages, as in the relay of Zeus's orders in Book II. Especially noteworthy is Bernard Knox's long and fascinating Introduction, a masterpiece of literary criticism and scholarship which conveys Homer's grim attitude toward war, the interplay of divine and human will, and the ancient concepts of honor, courage, and virility in the face of the stark finality of death. Knox also includes a succinct explanation of the quantitative, rather than accentual, basis of Greek (and Latin) verse. For easy readability, Fagles's translation is without rival. For elegance and poetry, however, I recommend Richmond Lattimore's older but still gripping and fluent translation.	2002-06-29
US	49411409	R36DMOWOO5ZAW9	0453007740	627065254	The Iliad (Classics on Cassette)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A readable Iliad in modern idiom	Robert Fagles's translation of Homer's Iliad is spiritually if not literally true to the original. Both versions repeat set speeches and descriptions in precisely the same words, and the translation exhibits a fairly regular rhythmic beat. But Homer's Greek was chanted, and the set passages were like refrains in which listeners could, if they chose, join in as a chorus. In English, the repetitions sometimes become tedious, especially when the same speech is given three times in two pages, as in the relay of Zeus's orders in Book II. Especially noteworthy is Bernard Knox's long and fascinating Introduction, a masterpiece of literary criticism and scholarship which conveys Homer's grim attitude toward war, the interplay of divine and human will, and the ancient concepts of honor, courage, and virility in the face of the stark finality of death. Knox also includes a succinct explanation of the quantitative, rather than accentual, basis of Greek (and Latin) verse. For easy readability, Fagles's translation is without rival. For elegance and poetry, however, I recommend Richmond Lattimore's older but still gripping and fluent translation.	2002-06-29
US	49411409	R3RPNFTJ4TTH5	0453007740	627065254	The Iliad (Classics on Cassette)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A fast-paced Iliad in modern idiom	Robert Fagles's translation of Homer's Iliad is spiritually if not literally true to the original. Both versions repeat set speeches and descriptions in precisely the same words, and the translation exhibits a fairly regular rhythmic beat. But Homer's Greek was chanted, and the set passages were like refrains in which listeners could, if they chose, join in as a chorus. In English, the repetitions sometimes become tedious, especially when the same speech is given three times in two pages, as in the relay of Zeus's orders in Book II. Especially noteworthy is Bernard Knox's long and fascinating Introduction, a masterpiece of literary criticism and scholarship which conveys Homer's grim attitude toward war, the interplay of divine and human will, and the ancient concepts of honor, courage, and virility in the face of the stark finality of death. Knox also includes a succinct explanation of the quantitative, rather than accentual, basis of Greek (and Latin) verse. For easy readability, Fagles's translation is without rival. For elegance and poetry, however, I recommend Richmond Lattimore's older but still gripping and fluent translation.	2002-06-26
US	49411409	R1FCQ7K24QF8LR	0147712556	627065254	The Iliad / The Odyssey	Books	5	24	24	N	N	A readable Iliad in modern idiom	Robert Fagles's translation of Homer's Iliad is spiritually if not literally true to the original. Both versions repeat set speeches and descriptions in precisely the same words, and the translation exhibits a fairly regular rhythmic beat. But Homer's Greek was chanted, and the set passages were like refrains in which listeners could, if they chose, join in as a chorus. In English, the repetitions sometimes become tedious, especially when the same speech is given three times in two pages, as in the relay of Zeus's orders in Book II. Especially noteworthy is Bernard Knox's long and fascinating Introduction, which conveys Homer's grim attitude toward war, the interplay of divine and human will, and the ancient concepts of honor, courage, and virility in the face of the stark finality of death. Knox also includes a succinct explanation of the quantitative, rather than accentual, basis of Greek (and Latin) verse. For easy readability, Fagles's translation is without rival. For elegance and poetry, however, I recommend Richmond Lattimore's older but still gripping and fluent translation.	2002-06-26
US	49411409	R3QT6TEQIG0UT7	0394751043	464300482	The King Must Die: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A classical myth transformed into an adventure story	Mary Renault revitalizes the ancient Greek myth of Theseus, Ariadne, and the Minotaur by following its hero's thoughts and actions as a series of rites of passage. Theseus, no longer innocent, leaves home, traverses dangerous territory, kills his first adult opponent, beds a queen, and returns home triumphant, only to volunteer to be one of the youths annually sent to Crete as doomed tribute to King Minos and as mortally perilous bull-dancing entertainment for the king's minions. He welds together a team so flawlessly attuned and unselfish that all its members survive, and he then goes on to new adventures. Because of the book's explicit (though tasteful) sex scenes, I was surprised to learn from a teenager who spotted the title on my beach towel that he had read it in his freshman year at a parochial prep school in Connecticut. But then I realized that The King Must Die is indeed an adventure story which teaches tenderness and consideration as well as sexual politics to its intended young audience. The descriptions and extended similes are Homeric in their richness, and the story is faithful to accepted versions of Greek mythology.	2002-06-25
US	49411409	REK4YZM8NMGP5	0553250485	464300482	King Must Die	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A classical myth transformed into an adventure story	Mary Renault revitalizes the ancient Greek myth of Theseus, Ariadne, and the Minotaur by following its hero's thoughts and actions as a series of rites of passage. Theseus, no longer innocent, leaves home, traverses dangerous territory, kills his first adult opponent, beds a queen, and returns home triumphant, only to volunteer to be one of the youths annually sent to Crete as doomed tribute to King Minos and as mortally perilous bull-dancing entertainment for the king's minions. He welds together a team so flawlessly attuned and unselfish that all its members survive, and he then goes on to new adventures. Because of the book's explicit (though tasteful) sex scenes, I was surprised to learn from a teenager who spotted the title on my beach towel that he had read it in his freshman year at a parochial prep school in Connecticut. But then I realized that The King Must Die is indeed an adventure story which teaches tenderness and consideration as well as sexual politics to its intended young audience. The descriptions and extended similes are Homeric in their richness, and the story is faithful to accepted versions of Greek mythology.	2002-06-25
US	49411409	RMDE13AJI7Q34	0394751043	464300482	The King Must Die: A Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An ancient myth transformed into a youth's adventure story	Mary Renault revitalizes the ancient Greek myth of Theseus, Ariadne, and the Minotaur by following its hero's thoughts and actions as a series of rites of passage. Theseus, no longer innocent, leaves home, traverses dangerous territory, kills his first adult opponent, beds a queen, and returns home triumphant, only to volunteer to be one of the youths annually sent to Crete as doomed tribute to King Minos and as mortally perilous bull-dancing entertainment for the king's minions. He welds together a team so flawlessly attuned and unselfish that all its members survive, and he then goes on to new adventures. Because of the book's explicit (though tasteful) sex scenes, I was surprised to learn from a teenager who spotted the title on my beach towel that he had read it in his freshman year at a parochial prep school in Connecticut. But then I realized that The King Must Die is indeed an adventure story which teaches tenderness and consideration as well as sexual politics to its intended young audience. The descriptions and extended similes are Homeric in their richness, and the story is faithful to accepted versions of Greek mythology.	2002-06-22
US	49411409	R1XEC40YSQ17OP	0738203408	337159473	Drawing the Line: Science and the Case for Animal Rights	Books	5	3	7	N	Y	Yes, Virginia, your puppy does have a soul!	In Drawing The Line, animal-rights attorney and law professor Steven M. Wise reprises and extends the arguments he presented in his highly successful first book, Rattling The Cage, on behalf of the legal personhood of chimpanzees and bonobos to that of gorillas, orangutans, dolphins, parrots, elephants, dogs, and honeybees, comparing their abilities to think, reason, remember, deceive, and play-act with those of his precocious four year-old son, Christopher. His goal is simply and modestly stated: \\"Shifts occur only after people come to believe that something is possible. Making the argument that at least some nonhuman animals should have basic legal rights and be recognized as legal persons is the first step toward informing policymakers, judges, and the public about what is known, and, therefore, attaining the goal.\\" In the process, Professor Wise both confirms with scholarly and scientific citations what the reader intuitively expects - namely, that primates are more intelligent than other forms of animal life - and avoids such excesses as advocating vegetarianism which have too often vitiated the polemics of activists in the field. Like Rattling The Cage, Drawing The Line is highly readable, informative, educative, and entertaining. As Milton said, \\"A good book is the life blood of a master spirit,\\" a classification to which the learned Professor Wise himself clearly belongs.	2002-06-19
US	49411409	R3SGNEPADL3B4F	0521484537	212413392	Why Switzerland? 2nd Edition	Books	5	40	43	N	N	An encyclopedic, sociological study of a multicultural land	This work, first published more than a quarter-century ago and twice revised, most recently in 1996, succeeds because the national Swiss characteristics which it explores are essentially timeless and unchanging. While tracing the begrudging and belated enfranchisement of women and the gradual integration of Roman Catholic and Jewish minorities who once were isolated, the author conveys the underlying tensions beneath a remarkably successful experiment in coexistence. As one who lived and worked in Switzerland for more than eight years, and whose own memoir, Living Among The Swiss, was published in January 1999, I can attest that Mr. Steinberg's generalizations ring true to my own experience and observations, and that they are supported by a myriad of political and sociological details that one would normally expect to learn only from a highly educated native. The prose, though scholarly, is highly readable, and evidences deep thought and mature reflection.	2002-05-27
US	49411409	R2JUDXSH00S8KD	0609609874	336594272	See No Evil: The True Story of a Ground Soldier in the CIA's War on Terrorism	Books	5	15	17	N	N	A passionate cry for human intelligence agents	Could the September 11th terrorist attacks in the U.S. have been prevented if an aide to the Saudi defense minister had accepted documents from the author listing Bin Laden operatives who were about to launch 'a spectacular operation'? Does the identification of an El Qaeda cell in Hamburg, Germany as the perpetrators of those attacks demonstrate the unbroken continuity of the unholy alliance between Arab radicals and Teutonic national socialists that dates back to the 1930's, when the Mufti of Jerusalem secretly supported Adolf Hitler? Were the Clinton administration's anti-terror efforts compromised by their acceptance of contributions of tainted, possibly KGB funds from Roger Tamraz (whose name adorns the Libyan-owned European chain of Tamoil service stations), a failed banker indicted for fraud in Lebanon and a former business partner of the Lebanese president who quietly released the suspects in the 1983 bombing of the U.S. embassy in Beirut? Is there a parallel between Tamraz's contributions to both U.S. political parties and those of Enron? Do the current Bush administration's ties to the energy industry, reflected in related stockholdings of very senior officials, along with its apparent abandonment of the previous administration's efforts to 'look more like America' in respect of both ethnic and religious diversity, compromise its ongoing war against terror? Was the Pan Am 103 bombing, for which a Libyan national is currently appealing his criminal conviction, funded by Iran in retaliation for the accidental downing of one of its civilian airliners? Does Yassir Arafat, who was awarded a Nobel Peace Prize in 1994, and who is currently under virtual house arrest, retain ties to the major middle-eastern terrorist networks? The answer to all of these questions, according to Robert Baer, who is 'scared to death of what is to come,' is an unflinching 'yes.' His book contributes invaluable perspective for any serious student of current events, politics, or history..	2002-02-13
US	49411409	RURBRB95IB16	0385505833	999720718	Skipping Christmas: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A reminder of the true meaning of Christmas	This work juxtaposes the commercial trappings of the sacred holiday with the true Christmas spirit, social interference with human interdependence, individual freedoms with community obligations, and it does so by satirizing the monolithic conventions of conformity. One clever touch: the out-of-synch protagonist's surname, Krank, means &quot;sick&quot; in German, and, although he and his family are portrayed as Roman Catholics, his first name, Luther, clearly suggests a budding Protestantism, expressed not by nailing documents to a church door but by distributing among his office co-workers a memo detailing his intended non-observance. In all, a gem.	2001-12-24
US	49411409	R1YW5N6QTGR86M	038550120X	299088859	A Painted House	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A classic American tale in the tradition of Faulkner	John Grisham's A Painted House memorably describes the life of poor, Bible-Belt cotton pickers during the Dust Bowl and Great Depression. The small but crucial class distinctions are vividly portrayed, and the women - teenage Tally, the narrator's determined and ultimately successful mother, the poor and shoeless but proud mater familias down the road - are presented especially sympathetically. In place of lawyers, there are killings, though - Shakespeare's exhortation to the contrary notwithstanding - neither of nor by lawyers. This work will become an American literary classic.	2001-11-22
US	49411409	RVV62YDRCFA4G	0802136680	119116934	This Boy's Life: A Memoir	Books	5	0	2	N	Y	An escape from poverty and mediocrity to success	Tobias Wolff was stuck at Concrete High School in the sticks, living with his divorced mother and, eventually, an abusive stepfather, while his brother Geoffrey, who was raised by his father, attended an exclusive prep school and an Ivy League university. Tobias eventually became a professor, and so his tome is better written than his brother's, The Duke of Deception: Memories of My Father. Particularly unforgettable are his account of a friendship with a somewhat effeminate but pugnacious classmate and his description of the supreme act of self-invention through forged documents which won him entry into his brother's more fortunate world. His visits with an indifferent and often insolvent father are also memorable. As a writer of a published memoir, Living Among The Swiss, which is also listed on this website, I can recommend Tobias's work as an especially entertaining and readable example of the genre.	2001-11-20
US	49411409	R7FXLZ325AFS4	0679727523	701796348	Duke of Deception: Memories of My Father	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Renaissance man or con man?	Geoffrey Wolfe's father was the type who could persuade an automobile dealer whom he had just met to accept a personal check for a new car after the bank was closed, and who could launch a successful career as an aeronautical engineer without relevant education, experience, or knowledge. His sons similarly reinvented themselves, one going so far as to submit forged credentials to win acceptance in an exclusive prep school. After the parents split up, Geoffrey lived an interesting if peripatetic life with his father, while his brother Tobias stayed with his mother, suffering poverty and abusive stepfathers. Since the father had the more interesting and eccentric personality, Geoffrey's book is perhaps the more adventurous, although less well written, than his brother's, This Boy's Life: A Memoir, but both make fascinating reading.	2001-11-20
US	49411409	R2VHWC6V15T1EI	0449006972	71254966	Gertrude and Claudius: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A witty account of the background of Shakespeare's Hamlet.	This three-part work combines the ancient legends to present a convincing psychological portrait of the lives of the royal family up to the outset of Shakespeare's play. In the process it offers stunning insights into the play itself. Another Updike tour de force.	2001-11-20
US	49411409	RJDONO7Z8DMJR	1570984042	125774068	Chin Music: A Novel of the Jazz Age	Books	5	1	3	N	Y	A Masterful Novel in the Traditions of Fitzgerald and Twain	Among the prefatory acknowledgments of contributors to his debut novel, Chin Music, which is flapper slang for gossip, Professor of English and Writing Paul M. Levitt of the University of Colorado includes F. Scott Fitzgerald and Mark Twain, without whose works the novel \\"could not have been scripted.\\" In case the reader misses this hint about the provenance of his work, the author provides additional clues, parading appropriately named characters in imitation of the charactonyms describing West Egg socialites in The Great Gatsby: a lothario is called Rodman, aka Rodd; a prissy physician who believes in the subordination of women is named Littlewick. For Fitzgerald's Port Washington and Oyster Bay (the two Eggs, west and east), Levitt substitutes New York City, New Jersey, and, above all, Saratoga Springs, New York during its August horse-racing meeting. For Huckleberry Finn he substitutes a pubescent girl named Henrietta Fine, the picaro or rogue of this picaresque novel, whose encounters encompass, like Huck's, an encyclopedia of mendacity, theft, religious revivals, mediums and seances, phony princesses and dukes, rubes (\\"It didn't take a genius to see that his elevator didn't stop at the top floor\\") and shills. Lest the reader miss the analogy, \\"Henny\\" meets a handyman-pastor's son whom his father dresses as a girl and whose name is Sarah Mary Williams. And for the obstinately imperceptive reader Henny reads and muses upon Twain's short story, \\"The Man That Corrupted Hadleyburg,\\" and even remarks, \\"I'm Huckleberry Finn in a dress.\\" Along the way, she becomes sexually aware and experienced, mating with three men (including one who forces himself upon her) before her eighteenth birthday. Through her eyes we behold lush scenery, opulent furnishings, nuances of character, and the various shades and attendant challenges of deceit. Through his heroine, Levitt captures the racial and religious bigotry, insecurity, hypocrisy, and materialism of an age in which the glaring disparities between the American dream and the American reality, the affluent and the impoverished, underlie the class and cultural conflicts that place this novel in the rich Anglo-American tradition while showcasing the author's remarkable individual talents as an observer, humorist,  and writer. One example of Levitt's symbolism will suffice: having implicitly redefined WASPS as White Anglo-Saxon Protestant Supremacists, the first-person narrator describes a scene in a Harlem apartment building's elevator: \\"At the first level, a man dressed all in white entered the elevator. Sharon [the elevator operator]  greeted him. `Good evening, Reverend Celestial. Warm enough for you today?' A wasp had found its way into the elevator and seemed, in particular, drawn to the reverend, who tried to wave it away.\\" (Page 198) This work is colored throughout by the ethnic authenticity of Italian and Yiddish phrases, most of which are defined in a glossary. It is perhaps a telling commentary upon our own era that the author includes there a parsing of \\"sheenie\\" but feels it unnecessary to explain the meaning of a harsher, four-letter synonym beginning with the letter \\"k.\\"ng disparities between the American dream and the American reality, the affluent and the impoverished, underlie the class and cultural conflicts that place this novel in the rich Anglo-American tradition while showcasing the author's remarkable individual talents as an observer, humorist,  and writer. One example of Levitt's symbolism will suffice: having implicitly redefined WASPS as White Anglo-Saxon Protestant Supremacists, the first-person narrator describes a scene in a Harlem apartment building's elevator: \\"At the first level, a man dressed all in white entered the elevator. Sharon [the elevator operator]  greeted him. `Good evening, Reverend Celestial. Warm enough for you today?' A wasp had found its way into the elevator and seemed, in particular, drawn to the reverend, who tried to wave it away.\\" (Page 198) This work is colored throughout by the ethnic authenticity of Italian and Yiddish phrases, most of which are defined in a glossary. It is perhaps a telling commentary upon our own era that the author includes there a parsing of \\"sheenie\\" but feels it unnecessary to explain the meaning of a harsher, four-letter synonym beginning with the letter \\"k.\\"	2001-08-16
US	49411409	R1V3MO5QVY206D	0688151809	571083724	Turbulent Souls: A Catholic Son's Return To His Jewish Family	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Edifying and thoughtful account of a spiritual journe;y	Laced with humor and wit, this professionally written memoir of a spiritual journey back to dormant but familiar roots is an inspiration to all who have explored or crossed the great, absurd, and fascinating religious divide that, like the jetty at a beach I once visited in New Bedford, Massachusetts, separates Jew from Christian, Protestant from Catholic, Montagu from Capulet.  If, as Bob Jones professes to do, you embrace the belief that those misguided or ignorant souls who fail to share your particular apocalyptic vision are doomed to damnation, you won't like this book, which documents the plurality and endorses the validity of the many and varied ways in which God speaks to each of us and in which we severally commune with God.	2001-05-21
US	49411409	R2JL2ZL006QDF9	0738200654	418275817	Rattling the Cage: Toward Legal Rights for Animals	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Informative, entertaining, witty, and humorous	The author combines deep and broad scholarship with eminently readable prose to produce an informative, entertaining, witty, and humorous book - an amazing feat for an attorney! His compassionate passion for improving  the lot of non-human primates, whose intelligence he startlingly documents,  infuses his analogies to children in general and to his own children in  particular (including the Twin Soldiers of Entropy) with warmth and  insight. To use a favorite word of the author, this work is profoundly  enculturating.	2000-06-09
