US	49432295	R17VUIOMW5VG6M	0880388307	146822606	Falcon's Revenge (AD&D/Greyhawk Module WGA1)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Mystery in the Streets of Greyhawk	This is the first in the series of three adventures set in Greyhawk City.  The characters arrive in Greyhawk City to find out that adventurers are no longer welcome there.  What's more there are rumors floating around about an evil that is growing in the city.  The mission if they choose to accept it is to discover what is going on in the city and stop it before the evil spreads.  I could go into more detail, but I don't want to give away any spoilers.<br />I had mixed feelings about this module.  From my description, the story obviously follows a mystery theme.  And as a concept, the plot is interesting and creative.  However, I don't think this adventure is well written.  The major gripe from my players is that there is not enough action at the beginning of the adventure.  Events seem to take too long to develop.<br />From a dungeon master's standpoint, I had some additional concerns.  My main problem is the lack of good continuity with the rest of the modules in the series.  The forces of the enemy will be fought several times throughout the series; however losses to the enemy is not addressed well.  In fact, the second module in the series actually suggests that if some of the enemy leaders are defeated in the first module that you should tell the players that they killed a stand-in instead.  This along with most of the setup of the adventure is poor.  To make this a good adventure that the players will enjoy the DM will need to spend a considerable amount of time fleshing out the adventure.  Now if you have the Greyhawk City Boxed Set most of the necessary color for the city is taken care of, but the encounters are just skeletons that need additional detail.<br />The other problem is the main conflict at the end of the adventure.  It just doesn't seem to be balanced well (too difficult for the players).  And some of the actions that are suggested are not feasible without spoon feeding the players and dragging them around by the nose so they don't screw up the plot for the rest of the modules.  All I can say is prepare for this encounter extra carefully.<br />My recommendation is if you have players that like roleplay and mystery this module has great potential with DM rework.  Hack and slashers should stay far away.  Also use the module for its general plot line and locales, but change the story to make it flow better.  If you have the Greyhawk City Boxed Set use it to add more life to the city.  Basically be prepared to spend more development time than usual.lot for the rest of the modules.  All I can say is prepare for this encounter extra carefully.<br />My recommendation is if you have players that like roleplay and mystery this module has great potential with DM rework.  Hack and slashers should stay far away.  Also use the module for its general plot line and locales, but change the story to make it flow better.  If you have the Greyhawk City Boxed Set use it to add more life to the city.  Basically be prepared to spend more development time than usual.	2003-03-20
US	49432295	R170P27GJXCRV2	0786916060	111054539	Night Masks (Forgotten Realms:  The Cleric Quintet, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Creative and Exciting Novel	First of all, let me say that I was not pleased with the first two novels in the series.  I bought the collector's edition, so since I already had it I decided to continue anyways.  With that said, as you can see from my five star rating that I really enjoyed this book.  As to why I enjoyed this book more the first two, well there are lots of reasons.  The most glaring reason is that they just didn't match up to the quality that I attribute to most of Salvatore's novels.  They were just not well written and the first one lacked excitement altogether.<br />The main villain in this novel, Ghost the Night Mask assassin, keeps the story going from start to finish.  He is definitely a worthy adversary.  His cunning and abilities make him the perfect assassin almost unbeatable...almost.  Cadderly has also undergone a major transformation.  He finally grows up in this novel and I actually started become interested in him something I would not say in the first two novels.  I love the way he struggles to first understand and then control his newfound powers even questioning their true origins.  The powers are really quite powerful perhaps even too powerful, but that remains to be seen.<br />Another thing that I really like about this book is the fate of Rufo.  I have been waiting for his selfish deeds to lead to his death for far too long.  I have just hated how he seems to be forgiven for the most complete betrayals.  Well let it just suffice to say that he gets what he deserves and I was completely surprised by the outcome.  The other part I enjoyed was the gripping Salvatore quality battle sequences.  The second novel in the series was alright in this concern, but the first novel really disappointed me.<br />I still have my grips though they are minor.  I was dismayed when I saw the return of the yo-yo, spindle-disk.  I was hoping I had seen the last of them when Cadderly got his staff enchanted.  Also the results of Ivan's tinkering with the yo-yo seems completely absurdto me.  Some of things that Cadderly ends up doing with it defies even fantasy reality.  And I still don't like the concept behind Pickel's character though I have gotten use to it.<br />Well I hope the rest of the story continues on the momentum of this novel.  I don't know if I would recommend the entire series yet, but I do recommend this book.	2003-03-16
US	49432295	R2EFPPB9IU108N	0786916052	603939867	In Sylvan Shadows (Forgotten Realms)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Rumble in the Forest	The second book of the Cleric Quintet begins with the elves of the nearby forest of Shilmista seeking the aid of the keepers of the Edificant Library.  Not long afterwards the group of unlikely heroes sets out to save the forest.  The rest of the book chronicles the exploits of the small group that ultimately serves as the deciding factor in the war in the woods.<br />This book reminded me a lot of Siege of Darkness in the Drizzt series.  The novel was a lot faster paced than the first novel in the series, Canticle.  I would definitely say I enjoyed this book more than the previous one.  However, I would not consider this a great novel.<br />What I did like was the struggle for power in Castle Trinity.  One thing Salvatore has a knack for is writing interesting villains.  The intrigue between the evil forces truly is what drives the story.  I would have said the same about the elves, but I have seen the same story in the Lord of the Rings.  As for the rest of the forces of good, well its not all bad.  Danica continues to be interesting and her fighting abilities are wonderfully portrayed.  Ivan also continues to impress and his sarcastic attitude always makes me smile.  However, Pickel is still the annoying dolt sidekick and dumb as ever.  And Cadderly is what really pulls the story down.  His constant whining is taken to an art form and it had me yearning for his demise through half the book.  But fortunately, by the end of the book he changes his tune a little.  He continues to oppose the taking of life, but he grows up and does what he can to help his friends.<br />To me this novel, like the first, was a mixed bag.  The battles scenes were much better in this book.  But while the character interactions generally improved by the end of the book, parts of the book are just annoying to read.  There is one thing that really bothered me.  The fleecing of ideas from Tolkien does bother me and it is something I also noticed in Streams of Silver, written by Salvatore aswell.  I like most of Salvatore's books, but he needs to write his own story.	2003-03-13
US	49432295	R119QKI6062714	0786916044	274941603	Canticle (Forgotten Realms) (Bk. 1)	Books	2	4	9	N	N	Lackluster Beginning to the Series	This novel takes place in the Forgotten Realms setting in the remote Snowflake Mountains.  The story centers around the Edificant Library established by the faith of Denir (god of knowledge).  The main characters are a young orphaned priest named Cadderly and his girlfriend Danica, a monk.  They along with several of his friends must defend the library from a curse that intensifies the desires of all the occupants causing dire effects.<br />The storyline has lots of promise.  The idea of having a cleric and a monk as the main characters in a Forgotten Realms novel is quite intriguing.  Unfortunately, this book doesn't deliver on that potential.  The novel starts off extremely slow; however, in a new series with unknown characters this is somewhat expected.  But it would have been hard to fail more miserably at the character introductions and early plot development.  The rest of the book is a toss up.  Parts of the book are funny and amusing, but there are other parts that leave you with a bad taste in your mouth.  Even Salvatore's battle scenes, his strongest skill, are lacking the excitement they normally invoke.  The battles with Cadderly using the yo-yo were just downright stupid.<br />I think my biggest problem with the book was the main character!  By the end of the book, I really just started to dislike him.  Cadderly character is intriguing; he is thrown into a violent world that he would rather not exist, pushed into an adventurous life that he doesn't want.  Unfortunately, Salvatore writing style doesn't lend itself to the possibilities.  The book should make you feel for Cadderly, but it leaves me with dislike instead.  My other gripe is Pickel.  I hated his little catch phrase &quot;Ou oi&quot;; it perturbed me to no end.  And the thought of a dwarf wanting to become a druid seems kind of silly to me, but Salvatore's characterization of him makes it worse.  To me Pickel seems to be a mentally challenged dwarf that got slammed into a tree too hard one dayand decided he should save the forest.<br />The book is not devoid of qualities, and that is why I still give it more than one star.  I liked the chaos curse and the affect it has upon the library dwellers.  It makes the book very amusing to read at times.  I also liked Danica's character, she is the first monk I have ever read about in a fantasy novel and I liked her development.  Ivan was also amusing his one-liners were usually good for a laugh.  But the bright spots of the book were the villains.  Strangely, Bargen the one character that we are really supposed to hate was one of my favorite characters.  I loved his resourcefulness and his powerful abilities.  The powerful villain brought down by his insurmountable arrogance.  Druzil was also enjoyable to read about and will definitely make the rest of the story interesting.<br />Despite the fact that I was disappointed with the book, I bought the collector's edition so I will continue to read the rest of the series.  I think the story has the potential to get better. I can only hope that the potential is fulfilled in the future.	2003-03-12
US	49432295	R13E0BWDNZ08HO	0880384581	742266144	The Price of Power (Greyhawk Adventures)	Books	2	3	4	N	N	The Adventures of Mika Part 2	The second installment to the Mika series left a little to be desired.  I was very anxious to read it after finishing &quot;Master Wolf&quot; wanting to find out how everything would turn out.  However, the beginning of &quot;The Price of Power&quot; is probably the worse portion of the book.  The ending of &quot;Master Wolf&quot; didn't seem to match what happened at the beginning of this novel.  I also didn't like the direction the book took with the addition of Maelfesh.  The rest of the book does get better though.  You will enjoy the effects of the magic stone and Mika's stay in Eru-Tovar and the Phantom Forest as well as Mika's run-ins with a harpy!  Unfortunately the climax, while it showed promise, didn't deliver.  The rust monsters ruined it for me.  As for the ending...it didn't leave me with the same desire to continue reading the rest of the series that the previous book did.  In my opinion, if you have read &quot;Master Wolf&quot;, then you might want to read this book.  However, I wouldn't go out of my way to locate a copy.  As for the rest of the series, I don't have them and I don't plan on looking for them.	2002-08-06
US	49432295	R1FEI4AEF5ZBUF	0880384573	200959737	Master Wolf (Greyhawk Adventures)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A tale of a different kind of hero	As the previous reviewer mentioned this is the first of a series of novels by Rose Estes that are set in the Greyhawk Campaign setting.  The series continues in \\"The Price of Power\\", \\"The Demon Hand\\", and \\"The Name of the Game\\".  The series chronicles the adventures of the wolf nomad Mika-oba, who is the son the clan's shaman, and his wolf companion Tam-Tur.  Mika is an extremely interesting character that kind of has the mentality of a sex-crazed hobbit.  He wants to have the riches, women and glory, but doesn't like to work for it.  His fate to takeover as the next shaman seems clear, even though he doesn't like the idea, but a raid on a passing caravan forever changes his life.  The novel is fast paced and humorous and you'll love Mika's less than heroic attitude and his fun loving wolf.  The ending is a strange one that will leave you wanting to know what will happen next.  I recommend this novel to the lighthearted reader for a tale of a different kind of hero.	2002-07-25
US	49432295	R1UN6T2AGVP4NW	0786918004	593065494	Legacy of the Drow Collector's Edition (A Forgotten Realms(r) Omnibus)	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Drizzt's past catches up with him	The newest collector's edition in the R.A. Salvatore Dark Elf Series is simply put...awesome. And for those of you who got the collector's edition of The Icewind Dale Trilogy let it be said there are no typos like last time. For those of you who have not read any Drizzt novels, I would not recommend starting with this set, but even if you do you should still be able to understand what's going on, especially the way Salvatore rehashes everything that has gone on before (something that I have gotten tired of however).<br />The common theme in these books is Drizzt's past coming back to haunt him. He has made quite a few enemies in his days on the face of Faerun and under it. Revenge is the name of the game and it appears that every one of his enemies wants a piece of the action even if they have to team up to get it. There are lots of twists and intrigue along the way and of course Salvatore's battle sequences have only gotten better. The character development that has been improving since the Dark Elf Trilogy continues here as the heroes struggle with tragic losses and their inner demons.<br />The only reason I did not give this book 5 stars is because of the last story Passage to Dawn. This portion of the series was poorly written with a predictable plot and little of the great characterization that makes the others so good. The final book does tie up loose ends, but I think it also undermines some of the development in the other books. Despite this weakness, the rest of the series is great and promises to draw you into the world of the drow and the surface dwellers that give them such big headaches. Buy this book you won't regret it.	2002-07-16
US	49432295	R1ISK8O741G34C	0786907509	92936424	Passage to Dawn (Forgotten Realms: Legacy of the Drow, Book 4)	Books	1	7	11	N	N	Transparent and Shallow ; not typical Salvatore	I have enjoyed reading Salvatore's novels about Drizzt. He has a great talent in characterization and writes wonderful battle sequences; however, Passage to Dawn does not follow Salvatore's style. The novel did have some sparkling moments like the wizardry contest between Harkle and Robillard, but the majority of the story just made me shake my head. The plot was very predictable. I fully expected that Wulfgar was Lloth's prisoner even without the poem from the witch. Even if you were not as familiar with the Drizzt storyline, the young barbarian stealing Aegis-fang from the dwarven mines (a feat that doesn't seem to me to be as easy as it was made out to be) had to be a tipoff that the hammer was being brought so Wulfgar could wield it. I mean come on did anyone really thing that Lloth had recovered Zaknafein's dissolved corpse. I was surprised that Drizzt believed it or that Cattie-brie didn't make the connection.<br />There also isn't anyone new or interesting introduced in this book. This book takes too much from other Salvatore novels. Deudermont returns from The Halfling's Gem, Ettru is back from the Icewind Dale trilogy, Cadderly from the Cleric Quintet. To me it seemed a bit much to tie the Cleric Quintet series up with the Icewind Dale heroes.<br />Another big disappointing feature of the book was the ending. Usually in the climax of Salvatore's novels, I am enthralled with his scripting of the story wondering what will happen to save the heroes from their certain doom (and I know they are going to win but that is not such a bad thing). But this time, I already knew what was going to happen. It was just too obvious. Regis defeats the crystal shard and Wulfgar's return turns the tide. And on the subject of Wulfgar's return, I really don't think he should have been brought back. His dramatic death and the character development following were well done and added a bit of vulnerability to Drizzt that this book completely undermines. All and all I think this book was just designed to tie up loose strings and make the world perfect again. Everyone accepts Drizzt's heritage, Bruenor's eye heals, Wulfgar back from the dead, and Cadderly is becoming younger again. Seems a bit too hokey for me.<br />Despite my dislike of this book, I have enjoyed the rest of the series and will continue reading about Drizzt. I think that only one bad book out of the ten so far is a pretty good record and expect better from what's to come.	2002-07-16
US	49432295	RP47KPCMDSRPH	0786901640	144994476	Siege of Darkness (Forgotten Realms: Legacy of the Drow, Book 3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Siege of the Drow	Another gem in Salvatore's collection.  This time the stakes are higher as Bruenor and his friends face complete annihilation.   Drizzt returns to the surface from his trek to Menzoberranzan successful only so far as slowing down the big bad drow war machine.  However, the biggest stumbling block that must be overcome is fate.  Fate, which rears its ugly head as the Time of Troubles, adds a twist to the story that makes this novel truly enjoyable.  You will love the scheming that this stirs up in the drow with their magic heavy culture as well as the bizarre happenings on the surface.<br />The ensuing battle when the drow do arrive is just spectacular.  Fighting on all fronts with the defenders on the edge of destruction right up until the end.  However, I too share the opinion of many of the other reviewers...this is one battle the heroes should have lost.  I think the power of the attacking army was under played.  While goblins, orcs, and minotaurs maybe fodder for drow, these creatures alone have massed attacks against the dwarves and won.  But, add in the extra firepower created by the drow and you have an unbeatable force.  The heroes should not have stood a chance.  And what's more, I think the book would have turned out better if the heroes had lost giving it that tragic edge.  Drizzt, Cattie-brie, and Bruenor could have still knocked out Matron Baenre and stopped the drow from occupying the dwarven homeland.  But to let the dwarves and their allies run off an army of drow completely victorious is a step beyond even &quot;fantasy reality&quot;.  Regardless of the outcome of the battle...the melee was still very compelling and exciting with tons of detail and not ridiculous like the climatic battle in &quot;Descent into the Depths of the Earth&quot;.  I am anxious to see what new troubles and intrigues will develop from the ashes of this latest conflict.	2002-07-03
US	49432295	R38SGD3SZUAE2B	0880382791	862263464	Artifact of Evil (Greyhawk Adventures)	Books	3	10	10	N	N	The Story Behind the Greyhawk Wars	I enjoyed this book more because I am a Greyhawk fan than the actual quality of writing. This book is the sequel to \\"Saga of Old City\\" and picks up a couple of years later after Gord and his friends discovered the first of three keys or artifacts which will unleash the dreaded evil god named Tharizdun. The book details the fight to obtain the second key which leads to a chase across the Flanaess. Many forces are at work in this mad dash to control the face of the planet including Oerth's own demigod the evil Iuz as well as the Scarlet Brotherhood. Many important figures pop up in this book including the Catlord, Mordenkainen, Melf (as in Melf's Acid Arrow), and the circle of eight. The fate of the world tends to draw a party. The storyline recounted in this novel basically tells the story behind the Greyhawk Wars up to the fall of the Horned Society and the takeover of the Bandit Kingdoms. For those who play in the Greyhawk world, this novel could definitely liven up a campaign or just provide an interesting background into what has happened before. The story is intriguing, but the writing, while better than \\"Saga of Old City\\" still lacks artist polish. Bottom line, if you enjoy the Greyhawk setting and read \\"Saga of Old City\\" get this book; it is an enjoyable and quick read. However, if you aren't familiar with Greyhawk your best bet would be to skip it.	2001-09-05
US	49432295	R2OFK42P1HHK19	0394742753	776173929	Saga of Old City (Greyhawk Adventures)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	The First Greyhawk Novel by Gary Gygax	\\"Saga of Old City\\" tells an epic story of one young orphaned adventurer that grew up in the Slum Quarter of the Gem of the Flanaess, Greyhawk City.  The adventurer's name is Gord and the story begins with the loss of his only caretaker, a mean old crone named Lenna.  Gord overcomes many obstacles to just survive the dangerous parts of the Greyhawk City.  On the way, Gord experiences a mixed bag of outrageous fortunes and ill luck.  I liked this novel and consider it like a diamond in the rough.  The overall style of the novel leaves a little to be desired.  The novel seems a little rushed with too many adventures thrown together.  The last couple of parts are jumpy and leave out the interesting details that make the early part of the book so intriguing.  I do recommend this novel especially for those who are familiar with the Greyhawk setting.  The novel does offer richness to Greyhawk and gives life to the races of Oerth like the mysterious Rhennee.  Another thing to note is that the events that occur in this book happen well before the current time in recent publications and the Flanaess have changed a lot since then.	2001-08-17
US	49432295	R2MKX68KWBVJ0N	0786918640	212898559	The Temple of Elemental Evil (Greyhawk Classics)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	The Temple breathes evil once more	The Temple of Elemental Evil is my favorite roleplaying adventure of all time.  Many an adventurer has fallen amongst its deadly walls.  I was mixed with delight and fear when I heard that a novel about this extraordinary piece was being written.  I am happy to say that this novel does it justice.  For those who have played the adventure before, you will relive past glories and defeats as images of Temple come back to you.<br />The setting with Hommlet, Nulb, the moathouse, and the Temple itself have remained the same, and you will remember some old faces like Burne, Elmo, Otis, Ostler, Rufus, and more.  Reid's descriptions of the Temple and the surrounding areas are incredible and put you there again with a new band of adventurers.  The characters are wonderfully portrayed and they remind me of many adventurers that I have played.  The main character in the story is Shanhaevel, an elven wizard, who is thrust into the adventure of his life, ill prepared and scared out of his wits, after his mentor is slain.  Shanhaevel arrives in Hommlet to meet with Burne and representatives from the King of Furyrondy and soon finds himself along on a journey to discover what new evil threatens Hommlet and to determine if the Temple has awaken again.  As the adventure begins, Shanhaevel rides out with a veteran warrior from the first battle against the Temple's forces named Melias who leads the expedition, a rogue named Ahleage, a warrior talented with a bow named Draga, a half-elven druid named Shirral, and Elmo a warrior who turns out to be more than he appears.  The characters are developed through their actions and garb and are not simply described by class like in the novel Against the Giants.  For instance, Govin who they meet later is not described as a paladin, but it can be inferred from his actions and abilities.  And Elmo's true character can be determined from his hidden talents.<br />Aside from all this let me just say...you will enjoy this book whether you are new toThe Temple of Elemental Evil or not.  The storyline is exciting and entertaining from the beginning and holds you till the end, unsure quite how it will all end up.  I give this novel my highest recommendation.  If you like this novel there is also a new adventure coming out called The Return to the Temple of Elemental Evil, which I hope will also live up the standards of the original.	2001-05-25
US	49432295	R3VWDXT8ZHJFH1	1560768800	404536933	Starless Night: Legacy of the Drow, Book II	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Drizzt Goes Back to Menzoberranzan	I really enjoyed this book.  I think it is one of best books in the Drizzt series rating closely with Homeland and Exile.  This novel details Drizzt's return to Menzoberranzan to end the perceived threat that the city has for his friends.  The book has many twists and lots of intrigue along with the awesome battle scenes that Salvatore is known for.  There was a lot of discussion in the other reviews about this book just following the same old plotlines.  I think for the most part this is mostly false.  Some of the things that happen in this book are the direct result of great character development.  I thought the whole idea of Drizzt returning to Menzoberranzan was ludicrous probably the dumbest thing that Drizzt has ever done.  However, I could understand where he was coming from; he was driven by his guilt he carried for the death of his friend Wulfgar.<br />What I liked best...beyond the great battle scenes was probably the development of the villains in this book.  Artemis Entreri is definitely only a shadow of his former self.  He is for the first time is in his life lost.  He has lost his confidence and in the presence of the drow feels true fear and even pities himself, not what you expect from the wily assassin.  But, beyond Entreri is the new power behind the scenes, Jarlaxle.  He is truly the most cunning and intelligent villain I have ever read about.  Watching Jarlaxle manipulate the other characters in the book like pawns really gives me chills.  I love these characters and can't wait for more.<br />The only thing, other than the obviously inaccurate cover art, that I disliked about this book was the actions of Catti-brie.  For a character that Salvatore always described as wise beyond her years and always able to look inside people and tell them about their biggest flaws, Catti-brie really does some dumb stuff.  Yeah she had a part in the ending of the book, but she should have never made the trip.  She is always yelling about people for putting themselves in danger for her and not thinking clearly then she goes off and chases after Drizzt.  Someone needs to slap the stupid witch to give her a taste of reality or at least quit helping her (meaning Alustriel).  Oh well just my point of view.<br />Anyways, if you have enjoyed the Drizzt series so far this one will not disappoint you.  If you haven't read the books before this one...you can probably get by just fine, but you won't truly enjoy it.  At least read the Dark Elf Trilogy and The Legacy before this novel.	2001-04-21
US	49432295	R33S32A29WO7T5	156076659X	370931999	Cleric's Challenge (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, Hhq4/9429)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great All Around Adventure	Think of the Night of the Living Dead where zombies rise up and try to kill everything in sight.  Well it is nighttime when you arrive in the quaint town of Pommeville, and not long after you slip off to sleep at the local inn all hell breaks lose.  Zombies assault the entire town and some have burst into your very room.  What caused this nightmarish attack...well its your job to find out.  Save the town and yourself and become a hero in the process.<br />This adventure is set as a one-on-one adventure with one PC cleric of a good or neutral aligned religion with 2 to 4 levels of experience.  The adventure is very flexible though and may be played as a regular adventure as well.  If playing as a group adventure, make sure that at least a couple of the party members have magical weapons because they are going to need them.  The adventure is very challenging, but not overpowering for a well played character.  The storyline is ingenious and will results in hours of great roleplaying fun.  I recommend this product highly if you can only find it.	2001-04-21
US	49432295	RJ26RMGKIE6GD	0786902000	564252957	Cleric's Challenge II (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Interesting Idea But Plotline Too Restrictive	This is a one-on-one adventure designed for a cleric between 4 to 6 levels of experience.  The adventure is about a cleric being sent by his or her faith to a small wine-producing town in order to fix its poor attendance at the town's only church.  When the cleric arrives, he discovers that there are much larger problems in the town than just low attendance at mass.  Undead roam the nights and villagers have gone missing taken by a mysterious creature.<br />I just finished reading this module, but unfortunately I don't think I will be able to use the module anytime soon.  The storyline doesn't allow for a lot of flexibility.  The adventure hook seems a little lame to me sending an adventuring cleric to check on the low draw at the local church.  I could work with that though.  The part I found restrictive was that the PC cleric in the adventure had to be the same religion as the priest in the town.  The town in question was very tiny with only 175 inhabitants and in a pastoral setting at that.  This severely limited the religion that the PC cleric could be.  You wouldn't find a church of a war god or any demi-human god in a small wine-producing human town.  In fact, the town's cleric had at one time blessed some grapes, which you won't find to often except for clerics of nature, woodland, sun, or healing gods.  Well anyways...I liked the design of the adventure and if you have a cleric or are willing to make a character to fit the storyline then you will probably like the adventure.  However, don't expect this adventure to be suitable for clerics of many if not most religions.	2001-04-20
US	49432295	R351P5SJ3BT60Z	0786915579	432976816	Icewind Dale Trilogy: Collector's Edition (Forgotten Realms: the Icewind Dale Trilogy)	Books	1	5	16	N	Y	An Awesome Trilogy Defiled by Editors Mistakes	I would like to start by saying that I loved this trilogy; I read this the first time through in individual paperback form and enjoyed it thoroughly.  You can imagine my amazement after buying the collector's edition of the book only to find out that it is riddled with typos.  Also missing is the great artwork from Larry Elmore and others that appeared on the original paperbacks.  That is why I give a 1 star rating.  Please get the individual paperback versions of the book and save yourself a headache.<br />Now that I have raved about the poor job of the editors, I will tell you what I think of the Salvatore's writing itself.  The Icewind Dale Trilogy is a great read full of fun action packed adventure.  It tells the story of Drizzt Do'Urden (a good and honorable dark elf ranger), his magical panther Gwenwyvar, the surly dwarven king Bruenor Battlehammer, Wulfgar the giant barbarian from the tribe of the elk, Regis the lovable halfling thief that always finds himself in trouble, and Catti-brie the adopted daughter of Bruenor.  The heroes get involved in many adventures including saving Icewind Dale from a crazed artifact wielding wizard, defeating a couple of dragons, and defeating hordes of monsters and the most cunning of villains.  It also tells the story of a dark elf trying to gain acceptance in a cruel world that judges him by his heritage.  The characters are developed masterfully [even the villains] and you find yourself really caring what is to happen to them.  Artemis Entreri is one of the best villains that I have ever read about.  You get to know him as well as Drizzt, Wulfgar, and Bruenor and find yourself despising him yet not wanting him to disappear.<br />All in all this is one of the best series that I have ever read.  I still love The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings, and The Dragonlance Chronicles but Salvatore is right up there.  I would recommend reading The Dark Elf Trilogy before reading this trilogy and you will see that Salvatore's writing continues to improve with every book he writes.  The Dark Elf Trilogy is a more imaginative piece that takes less from other writers and creates its own story. And another thing...the collector's editions of the other Salvatore trilogies do not have all the typos that this edition does.	2001-04-16
US	49432295	RU0EPFDT5TY3H	088038901X	924065681	The Halfling's Gem (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Most Entertaining Novel in the Icewind Dale Trilogy	First off, this is the conclusion of the Icewind Dale Trilogy.  I would strongly recommend reading the first two novels in the series, The Crystal Shard and Streams of Silver, to truly enjoy this book.  This story picks up with Artemis Entreri, running off with Regis from Mithral Hall, the halfling, to return him to Pasha Pook the leader of the largest thieves' guild in Calimport.  Drizzt and friends chase after Entreri to save Regis from the almost certain death that awaits him in Calimport.  The plot is pretty straight forward, but there are definitely enough complications to keep it interesting.<br />I really enjoyed this book and thought it was the best book in the trilogy.  The Halfling's Gem regains the continuous fast paced adventure that was lost in part of Streams of Silver.  I found the supporting characters in this book much better conceived and interesting.  The battle scenes in the boat and at Pasha Pook's palace were at least as good as any of the battle scenes in the other two books.  Also Drizzt's attempt to find himself and what he stands for really progresses in this book.  This continues in the Dark Elf Trilogy, which occurred before he reached Icewind Dale, but was written after the Icewind Dale Trilogy.  All in all the writing in this novel has really improved from the first two books.  This same quality continues through the rest of the Drizzt series.  I whole-heartedly recommend this novel for the entertaining fast paced read that it is.	2001-04-16
US	49432295	R26SBL73XDD83J	0786915501	633963573	Dungeons & Dragons Player's Handbook: Core Rulebook 1	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	D&amp;D in a new light	I have been playing D&amp;D since the late 80s back when there was the basic and expert booked sets.  I started DMing a few years after 2nd edition first came out and that is when I finally found out how many flaws the system really had.  But D&amp;D is adaptable and home rules were always implemented to fix problems in game play.  This 3rd edition of D&amp;D attempts to fix a lot of those problems.  However, with everything there are good parts and bad.<br />What do I like best about the new system?  Well the biggest improvement came in the simplification of combat.  The quicker 6 sec rounds make more sense, movement during combat finally really works with addition of attacks of opportunity, creatures with reach like dragons or giants can attack you before you can get to them, two weapon wielding characters actually suffer real penalties, multiple attacks limit movement and also have penalties, movement being slowed in heavy armor is now taken into account (i.e. max dex bonuses), and so many others.  However, don't expect your combat rounds to get too much faster because all of the feats and other changes to the game have made just an infinite amount of opportunities to make combat long but a lot more interesting.<br />The skills are done well and act like non-weapon proficiencies and some are untrained so any character can use them, but some characters our better at skills than others (cross class skills).  My only problem with the skill system is that the skills listed were very incomplete; however, I am sure that later supplements will have more (they make all their money on the supplements).<br />Lots of new things have been added or brought back like the half-orc, barbarian, monk and the new sorcerer class (really cool especially for monsters).  Now clerics can convert their regular spells to healing spells (no more complaining about DM not giving enough healing spells).  Cantrips are added in for all types of spell casters, but this time it's done effectively.  I though the feats unbalanced the game at first making the characters too powerful, but monsters can have them too and game play can be balanced.<br />My only real gripe with 3rd edition is the loss of all of the kits and specialty priests.  Kits are what kept 2nd edition exciting.  Neither my friends nor I would have kept playing without the kits created in the complete handbook series.  As a matter of fact it's quite rare for more than one of us to be playing a standard character from the players handbook in any party.  I know I could probably redesign all the kits to work in 3rd edition, but that is a big hassle.  I know that a lot of new supplements are coming out for different classes and I hope this will be addressed; however, new supplements means spending a lot of money especially when the supplements conveniently cost as much as the core handbooks themselves.  All I can say is if WotC is going to abuse the players with these prices of the supplements, the books better be excellent.	2001-04-15
US	49432295	RNUIF9PIPMYCZ	088038672X	12144424	Streams of Silver (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Quest to find Bruenor's Homeland	First, I will give you a little background on the story.  Streams of Silver is the second book in the Icewind Dale Trilogy.  The heroes are Drizzt Do'Urden, a dark elf ranger, Bruenor Battlehammer, a dwarven king, Wulfgar, a barbarian, Regis, a halfling rogue, and Cattie-brie, human foster daughter of Bruenor.  This story takes the heroes on a journey to rediscover Bruenor's lost homeland, Mithral Hall.  The journey is ripe with challenges, not the least being the appearance of Artemis Entreri, an assassin sent to catch Regis.<br />I found this book much less fast paced than its predecessor The Crystal Shard.  I didn't find the search for the hall as compelling as some of the other reviewers, but it had some redeeming factors.  There was a sense of mystery that veiled the story and made you wander what was going to happen next.  However some of the conflicts during the trip seemed a little haphazardly put together.  Overall the quality of Salvatore's writing increases in this book and I like how the characters are developed.  However, there are lots of grammatical errors that tend to get annoying.  Artemis Entreri and his attempt to catch the heores saves the early part of the book.<br />The part I enjoyed the most was the events in Mithral Hall.  I don't want to give away too much. So, all I will say is that its exciting and action packed.  Just remember when reading this book that even though it starts off slow the story enthralls you by the end.  If you like Forgotten Realms, then you will like this book.	2001-04-12
US	49432295	R15B062K66B6EC	0880385359	6406789	The Crystal Shard (Forgotten Realms: The Icewind Dale Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The First Book in an Excellent Series	I just got finished reading this book for the second time.  The first time I read it was when I just began reading fantasy novels many years ago.  I didn't enjoy it as much this time through, but I still found it entertaining.  For those who have read the Dragonlance chronicles or the Lord of the Rings, you may feel that this book falls short of those fantastic trilogies.  However, I would say there is a reason that Salvatore has written so many novels in the Drizzit series.  It is not because all of his readers are stupid.  The reason his books sell is that his books are fun to read.  The Crystal Shard is a fast paced book with a lot of good ideas and an interesting premise.  I will be the first to say that Salvatore's writing in The Crystal Shard is not up there with the quality of J.R.R Tolkien, but the novel still draws you in and makes you continue reading because you want to find out what is going to happen.  If you are going to read fantasy novels of this type you unfortunately will have to get used to superheroes that are impossible to kill.  This is true of Drizzit, Bruenor, and Wulfgar.  But if Salvatore killed them off in the first couple of books there would not be this long running series that we have now.  For those who say the character development in this book is poor...I think you are right to some degree, but read the Dark Elf Trilogy and you will see that Salvatore is a really good author.  For those of you who like to read fun light-hearted books please read this book you will like it and the rest of the series.	2001-03-14
US	49432295	R1U10MGF2XSD1P	0786916354	183988299	Descent into the Depths of the Earth (Greyhawk)	Books	2	1	5	N	N	A Step Back After White Plume Mountain	First off let me say I read Paul Kidd's previous book in the series \\"White Plume Mountain\\" and really liked it.  However, I was quite disappointed after reading this book.  I was glad to see the same characters return, but the storyline was severely lacking.  The long detour that brought the characters to Keoland reminded me of a dungeon master completely out of ideas (oh we got lost, come on, the Justicar is a ranger and they were traveling through lands as civilized as you will find in the world of Greyhawk).  Another thing that bugged me was the whole role of the Faerie kingdom and Escalla's family.  It was way to faerie tale-ish (excuse the pun) for me.  All I will say is that there are fairy princesses and a lame story to tie it to the book.<br />I liked the dialogue between Escalla, Jus, Cinders, and Polk.  It continued to be fun and amusing; the kid Henry was similarly funny but seemed a little shallowly developed.  Enid was skillfully dumped (sarcasm) -hey be are diversion so the extremely powerful swarm of faeries won't find us...right.  Oh well.  I liked the battles in the underdark.  Well that is until they reached the drow.  The first patrol was way too easy to kill.  The Justicar seemed to have gained the ability to kill everything in one blow.  They should have checked that sword of his to see if it was a cross between a vorpal sword and the sword of sharpness.  Lets put it this way...anyone the Justicar hit at least lost a body part and usually got cut in half, even powerful female drow priestesses.<br />Oh and another thing, the final battle was done horribly. Lets see we had Private Henry on the machine gun (Oops I mean the magic repeating crossbow with the ammo magazine that held two-dozen drow poisoned shots and was reloaded with nearly no effort).  It kind of reminded me of the landing at Utah beach in WWII.  I guess Private Henry should get a promotion...with over a hundred drow on his personal kill list.  Equally as bad was Lolth getting beat by getting her wasted on Faerie wine...ok that's believable (more sarcasm).  <br />Anyways I do not recommend this book even if you liked the White Plume Mountain.  The next book in the series is \\"The Temple of Elemental Evil.\\"  It was my favorite adventure module when I was growing up.  The author, Thomas M. Reed, appears to be a novice at novel writing.  You never know he might be good, but I wish some experienced authors could be hired to work on this series.	2001-03-14
US	49432295	RJQX05LOP0ACM	0786916400	543234143	The Sunless Citadel (Dungeons & Dragons Adventure, 3rd Edition)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	A Good Starting Adventure for 3rd Edition D&amp;D	I just got finished reading this adventure.  It will be my first time DMing in 3rd edition after DMing in 2nd edition for over 10 years.  I loved the layout of the dungeon and the story concept.  Even a novice DM or a DM trying 3rd edition for the first time will find the adventure easy and fun to run.  The rules for 3rd edition are explained briefly as they are used which makes life much easier when you are just learning new rules.  All the creatures contained in the adventure have full statistics supplied so you don't need the monster manual to play.  I think the length of the adventure is adequate for a beginning low-level adventure.  However, I thought the creatures encountered are a little two difficult for a 1st level adventure.  Fortunately, the creatures that are too difficult like the troll and shadow can be avoided or evaded.  The rest of encounters are balanced and difficult enough to keep player interest.  The adventure allows for a significant amount of roleplaying if the PCs don't kill everything first.  I do recommend this adventure especially for new DMs and players since they will not know the difference; however, the introduction and background setting for the adventure leave a lot to be desired.  The town of Oakhurst is not detailed at all and provides no reason for adventurers to be there.<br />For those who play in the Greyhawk setting, the town of Oakhurst doesn't exist; but, since it is a small town it can be placed in any inland area like Keoland or Veluna.  As a matter of fact the only the only shred of evidence that the adventure is even set in Greyhawk is that the paladin, Sir Bradford, carries a holy symbol of Pelor, a Greyhawk god.  Essentially this adventure can be played in any campaign setting including Forgotten Realms.  I do hope that some adventures designed for the Greyhawk campaign setting will be written!	2001-03-12
US	49432295	R1KHUJIAH9HT0Q	0786914246	143694790	White Plume Mountain (Greyhawk)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A novel based on a game module ... and its good!	First of all, this book is leaps and bounds above \\"Against the Giants\\", the first book in the new Greyhawk line. This book draws the reader into the world of Greyhawk much as the old Gord books did long ago. The characters in this book are a bit outlandish, but they are so beautifully brought to life that they do not cause a distraction. The Justicar, a no nonsense powerful ranger with a pyromaniac animated hell hound pelt, is perfectly balanced with Escalla, a faerie sorcereress with a craving for the good life. The two meet while the Justicar (or Jus as Escalla calls him) is on a mission from the Countess of Urnst to determine who or what is to blame for a rash of recent attacks on supply caravans heading to the north. A fast paced series of adventures puts the characters up against a horde of devilish monsters in the bowels of White Plume Mountain.<br /> What did I like most about this book? Well this book is truly fun to read. I found myself laughing at the faerie's antics and Cinders the hell hound pelt usually jumped in with a great line or two. Above this the action scenes are superbly written. I liked the way their adventures reminded me of roleplaying at home. There were NOT endless amounts of spells like the silence spells used in \\"Against the Giants\\" and there was a real sense of mortality in the combat. Many times the companions came near death something I find missing in most of the Drizzt novels. And what really makes this book better than its predecessor \\"Against the Giants\\" is that the characters had personalities and they developed and changed through the course of the book! The only thing that I found lacking in the book was the transparent storyline. But, since this is a novelization of an adventure module, I kind of expected this and still enjoyed the book.<br /> I recommend the book highly and am anxious to start reading the next book with Jus and Escalla, \\"Descent into the Depths of the Earth\\" also by Paul Kidd. Hey and, \\"No one touches the faerie.\\"	2001-02-11
US	49432295	R2FNM6POU5A4QU	1560766409	81281548	The Legacy: Legacy of the Drow, Book I	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The Story Continues	This book picks up where the Icewind Dale Trilogy left off.  To truly enjoy the enormity of what is going on it is helpful to read the Dark Elf Trilogy.  Catti-brie and Wulfgar are getting married and all of the heroes of Icewind Dale have returned to see the momentous occasion.  Even Regis has returned from Caliport.  But Drizzt's enemies are many and they have a tendency to turn up when you least expect it.  Drizzt's surviving brother and sister, Vierna and Dinin, are back to slay Drizzt in the name of the spider queen, Lloth.  And they have many allies.  Will Catti-brie and Wulfgar get married?  Why has Regis returned from Caliport?  And more importantly what role does Artemis Entreri play in this sinister plot?  Well I guess you'll just have to read the book to find out.  Here's another hook that might get your attention.  The Legacy does not have a happy ending......one of heroes of Icewind Dale will not make it out of the Undercity of Mithril Hall.	2001-01-28
US	49432295	R2307NEFJHP8PI	0786915439	1751540	Advanced Dungeons and Dragons Core Rules 2.0 Expansion CD-ROM	Books	3	5	7	N	Y	Should Have Been Included in Core Rules	I don't give this three stars because it's a particularly bad product. I  give it three stars because I should not have had to buy it. What this  product gives you is the ability to create characters with the complete  handbook kits. It also supplies the handbooks in computerized form.  However, the complete handbook and its kits should have been included in  the core rules! Just another example of me getting bent over by TSR\WotC,  of well. I won't let their greed stop me from having fun. If you do use  kits get this product; creating the kits on your own with the core rules is  a nightmare. Also get it if you don't have the complete handbooks (I  already had them all) that is if you don't mind viewing them on the  computer with no pictures.<br />Another note: Specialty Priests are not  included, but this is not a surprise. The core rules\expansion is designed  for generic 2nd ed AD&amp;D and to make specialty priests would have meant  being game world specific. Maybe TSR\WotC will make a patch for specialty  priests for the realms and greyhawk. This will only happen if we pester  them endlessly until they summit.<br />isn't there a spell for this. Hmmmm...  Hobbs's Endless Irritator... Hmmm	2000-08-09
US	49432295	R1W2Y8VO6Q0L8N	1560763418	101045246	Greyhawk Adventures: From the Ashes/Boxed Set (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons, 2nd Ed)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Incredible Campaign Setting	This boxed set picks up where the Greyhawk Wars boxed set left off.  The  year is 585 CY and the wars have ended between Iuz and the lands of good.  From the Ashes includes two 96 pg booklets, three maps and 20 card  sheets.<br />Two of the maps are replicas of the world maps supplied with the  original boxed set produced in the early 80s. The third is a zoomed in map  of Greyhawk City and the surrounding lands.  The card sheets outline many  different topics including important NPCs, 6 short adventures, wandering  encounters, and much more.<br />The booklets are the Atlas of the Flanaess and  Campaign Book.  The Atlas of the Flanaess covers and updates all of the  imformation is the original boxed set.  This includes info on history of  the Flanaess, the people, languages, money and trade, all the lands and  countries of the Flanaess, mysterious places and rumors which can be  developed into adventures, and details about the gods which includes some  specialty priests.  The Campaingn Book details the areas displayed in the  third map around Greyhawk City. This book does not go into the details of  Greyhawk City, but does update information found in The City of Greyhawk  Boxed Set(582 CY).  The detailed information on the surrounding lands is  for the most part completely new and quite interesting and well  written.<br />This boxed set in truly a great piece with lots of new  information that could be used to enchance an old Greyhawk campaign or  start a new one.  If you can find this set, it is definitely worth it even  though a lot of this information will be updated in the new Living Greyhawk  campaign being developed by the RPGA.	2000-08-06
US	49432295	R3VVYH1I88IJ6K	1560765844	296621324	Iuz the Evil (AD&D/Greyhawk Module WGR5)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Everything you need to know about Iuz	This book is set at the time of the From the Ashes boxed set. It has connections to the Marklands Greyhawk Sourcebook, but this is not required.<br />If you get a chance to buy this book, jump on it. This is the  best Greyhawk sourcebook I have seen. Iuz the Evil details the holdings of  Iuz, the evil demigod of the flanaess, just after the signing of The Pact  of Greyhawk where the Greyhawk Wars ended. The sourcebook begins giving an  excellent history of Iuz, from his birth to the end of the Greyhawk Wars.  It explains Iuz's fears and aspirations for the future. Iuz's priesthood is  examined and new spells and magic items are added for his faithful. All of  Iuz's lands are detailed including the howling hills, Dorakaa (the city of  skulls)and the rest of the Land of Iuz as well as the occupied territories  (Horned Society, Shield Lands, Bandit Kingdoms, and the Land of Tenh).  Included are the stats for Iuz's Armies and all the key players good and  evil (mostly evil) including the dreaded members of the Boneheart. The  sourcebook also gives adventure ideas for low levels all the way to the  highest of levels. Another note of interest is that the areas described are  the location for several previous adventures including The City of Skulls,  White Plume Mountain, The Return to White Plume Mountain, and several  others.	2000-07-17
US	49432295	R3HEFO7LCLQ8PS	0880387793	588575398	The Complete Fighter's Handbook	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Best Complete Handbook	This is definitely the best all around complete handbook. Well what did I like most about the handbook? It think that would have to be the new combat rules. There is a lot of stuff here! Clear rules for parrying, called  shots, shield punches, great new info on punching, wrestling, and martial  arts (and specialization in each), insights into hit locations, effects of  damage on armor (it doesn't last for ever you know), tournaments (including  jousting), combat tactics, and mounted combat. And my favorite, new info on  weapon proficiencies. This includes style specialations (two weapon, two  hander, weapon and shield, single weapon) which justs rocks and broad  groups and tight groups (allows someone to be proficent with like weapons;  hey I can use a long bow why can't I use a short bow or a composite long  bow.)<br />Well don't you think that's enough reason to buy the book? If you  don't, I will also mention that it has new kits, new info on proficiencies,  roleplaying tips, and new types of armor and weapons. The kits are pretty  cool (cavalier and beserkers are awesome), and the information on the  proficiencies armorer, weaponsmithing, and bowyer/fletcher eliminate the  need for lots of house rules that you will definitely forget or lose.<br />BUY  this book; it's worth it.	2000-07-12
US	49432295	R11C7IETZY2QR2	0880387807	533341487	The Complete Thief's Handbook: Player's Handbook Rules Supplement, 2nd Edition (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Awesome Complete Handbook	If you have ever played or have ever wanted to play a thief character you need this book. Before I got this handbook, no one really wanted to play the thief in the group and usually was just a second character for someone. Thieves just open locks and occasionally fire their bows right?<br />WRONG. This book opens up many faucets of the class that I had never thought of and expands on the rest. The kits in this book really give character to your thief characters. Ever wonder why thugs were always thieves class, well check out the bandit or thug kits. I have heard complaints about the kits not having a lot benefits\hindrances (and the majority don't), but what they do offer is flair and adjusts abilities (including thief abilities as well as proficiencies) to better fit the thief's many roles.<br />This is also the only handbook that has any good new proficiencies. I especially liked alertness, fast talking, intimidation, and observation. I also liked the new equipment section. WOW! It has all kinds of cool stuff that would make any thief character's mouth water and don't even unbalance game play. The book is worth it just for this and the kits.<br />But there is more. The book also gives new info on lock picking (advanced locks, modifying checks) and on poisons and antidotes. There is a great deal of info on thieves' guilds. A LOT. Probably even more than you would want to know, but that's okay. Use what you like skip what you don't. If thieves' guilds even show up in your campaigns, I highly recommend this for DMs. The book also gives useful info on running thief based campaigns that gave me lots of ideas on how to make life in the city a little more interesting. Ever want to run a campaign solely in Greyhawk City or Waterdeep, well try it.<br />All in all this is a great resource for players and DMs alike.	2000-07-12
US	49432295	R3J7MGLF6JZY8R	0880385308	369468732	Castle Greyhawk (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Module WG7)	Books	1	7	18	N	N	Spoof  based on Greyhawk Ruins	AVOID THIS PRODUCT<br />I accidentally got this adventure thinking it was WGR1 Greyhawk Ruins. What a surprise. The whole adventure is one bad joke after another. AND I DO MEAN BAD. I can't believe even TSR would publish  such a piece of worthless trash!<br />Well if you get a chance WGR1 Greyhawk  Ruins is a pretty cool module, but extremely hard.	2000-07-12
US	49432295	R1FFH6LF9WA6OD	1560761075	105936107	Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Tome of Magic, 2nd Edition	Books	3	3	6	N	N	New Spells,  Priest Spheres, and Mage Classes	What can I say about this book. Well it is useful, but I could have really done without it. It also is included on the core rules CD, however this is becoming difficult to find. There are some useful spells, but most don't  warrant being put into a supplement. The magic items are worthless, don't  even bother reading them. Some of the mage classes are interesting, but I  give them mixed reviews. I could easily stick to regular specialist or kits  from the wizard's handbook. This book has new spheres for priests which I  didn't see any need for. Unfornately, these new spheres are used in the  Faiths and Avatars book for specialty priests in Forgotten Realms as well  as the specialty priests in the From the Ashes Greyhawk boxed  set.<br />Hopefully for those switching over to 3rd ed D&amp;D (I'm not), the  new spheres or lack of them will be fully incorporated in the 3rd ed PHB.	2000-07-11
US	49432295	R3B2NSFJ72YUAZ	1560763604	901580330	The Complete Bard's Handbook: Player's Handbook Rules Supplement, PHBR7, 2nd Edition (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Bests Kits of any of the Handbook Supplements	I recommend this book highly if you use kits. I have several of the handbooks and this one truly has the best kits of any of them. My players use to never play bards, but after getting this book we always have one in  our groups.<br />If you don't like kits this book proably isn't for you.  However, it does have a good chapter on roleplaying bards as well as  optional rules for a reputation system that is pretty interesting. There is  a section on music which has a list of instruments with pictures and short  descriptions. There is also a couple of new proficiencies, spells, magic  items; however, I didn't find these particularly useful.	2000-07-11
US	49432295	R2MQR2MXDFQ3I4	1560763574	444683757	Fighter's Challenge (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons ,2nd Edition, No. 9330/Hhq1, Adventure)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Fun one-on-one adventure	This like the rest of the class challenge series is a one-on-one adventure (i.e. one player and one DM). This one is designed for a warrior class character of levels 2-5. I enjoyed running this adventure, it has a good  plot and well designed NPCs (lots of good roleplay here). I will also note  while this is designed as a one-on-one it can easily be played as a 1-4  level group adventure also.<br />Here is short idea of the storyline.  You  travel to the town of Sturmheim and there has been a murder. It is up to  the players to discover the reason behind it. There are lots of clues and  lots of cool places to check out.	2000-07-11
US	49432295	R3LJHQUEDA3R9R	0880384883	763434162	Bestiary of Dragons and Giants (Dungeons & Dragons Accessory AC10)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Bad Accessory Bad Adventures	Maybe a third of the adventures are alright, most of the rest are  ridiculous. I don't think the book gives any REAL insight into dragons or  giants. If you are in the mood for some silly short adventures then you  might be alright with this product, but otherwise you'll hate it.	2000-07-08
US	49432295	R2I1FQDXJ6VFV2	088038588X	305147572	Ruins of Adventure (AD&D/Forgotten Realms Module)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Long series of adventures containing loads of fun	This adventure book and I do mean book is a series of various adventures  set in the city of Phlan in the Forgotten Realms setting. The adventures do  not all have to do played so you can jump into the town with a range of  adventurer levels. You can even run more than one adventuring group in the  town at the same time on different missions. Can we say rivals? Or even  evil PCs vs good PCs. Hmmmmm...the possibilties are endless. This adventure  allows a group to grow and make a name for themselves(if they survive of  course) and have a lot of fun in the process. Definitely Recommended.	2000-07-08
US	49432295	R3R0OPBEUT7DCY	039453803X	603667435	The Sentinel (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Module UK2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Greyhawk Adventure	I highly recommend this adventure [Levels 2-5].  It is the first of two  adventures set in an isolated corner of the Hold of Sea Princes.  The story  allows for good roleplay where the adventures must investigate a mystery  involving an irrationally acting skulk (creature from Fiend Folio).  The  adventure has a decent bit of overland travel (which a good DM should be  able to make interesting) and several adventure locales that are well drawn  out. It took a little bit of effort to get my players into it (they hate  mysteries), but once they did everyone had a great time.  This adventure  should be played with the next one &quot;The Guantlet&quot;, but this is  not required and there is even a good way to get PCs out of the next  adventure if that's your desire.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	RC3QOH09D2RNV	0394514254	362168543	The Secret of Bone Hill (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Module L1)	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Good Adventure But No Clear Begining	NOTE: This adventure can be downloaded in its complete form off the  Wizard's of the Coast Website as of 7/7/00<br />I have been adding a little  life to the town and have gotten a chance to read the adventure. The town  is a little bland but has promise.  The wilderness encounters are just  outlines of the creatures in certain areas, but they can be developed with  a little bit of work. The keep on bone hill is fun, but deadly and you  would do well to have a group of adventures between 3-5 Levels before  attempting it.<br />The main thing that bugged me is that the adventure is not  really setup, and requires a lot time to make it playable.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R22KSA0626OX53	0786901500	329009136	The Secret of Spiderhaunt (AD&D/Forgotten Realms Adventure)	Books	1	4	6	N	N	The Worst Module of a BAD Series	This is truely the worst adventure I have had the misfortune of playing!  This adventure(the second module in &quot;The Sword of the Dales&quot;  trilogy) is just terrible!  The whole series is designed badly; there is  just no substance to the adventure. As I said about the first adventure the  premise is good just not developed.<br />The module details the players  journey towards the ruins of an old mage tower that they are drawn to by  dreams that a spirit trapped in the sword is creating. Sounds intriguing  right? Sorry the tower consists of about three rooms that didn't bring out  a sparkle in my players' eyes! The final encounter is setup horribly and it  is the foundation of the entire book. My players laughed when I implied  that they might want to touch skulls sitting on coffins.  Exact words  &quot;What, do you think we're stupid.&quot;<br />The adventure did have one  bright spot, a forest gnome village and an NPC called Madarn. The village  was well designed except I somewhat doubt that a village of gnomes even  forest gnomes would survive in Spiderhaunt Woods.<br />If you have decided to  play this adventure then you should play the last one &quot;The Return of  Randal Morn&quot; it is a little better.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R36JVFSKV0YXYT	0394521870	901584604	Sinister Secret of Saltmarsh	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Sinister Secret not so good	I didn't like this adventure. I thought it was short and to simple.  However I did not have the following two adventures (U2 &amp; U3) which  seem to have made the whole series playable. Even though I give this  adventure bad marks (and don't recommend it at all by itself) maybe a  rerelease of the whole series in a single adventure book is in order  similar to what has been done for the Against the Giants series.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R110F5XI0IG1IW	0786901268	96396127	The Sword of the Dales (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons/Forgotten Realms)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Terrible Series of Adventures	This module was definitely a waste of money. An obvious attempt to abuse Forgotten Realms players. This series and the Adventures with Volo series were a good example of why TSR was failing. Novice DMs could write a better  adventure. I will say that the premise is an excellent idea (too bad they  didn't put any work into it :(<br />The majority of the adventure details the  overland trek to get to the tomb. Unfortunatly it is not well developed and  I would have done better rolling encounters off a wandering monster table!  Once you get into the tomb you get this wierd feeling. DID I PAY FOR THIS?  WHERE IS THE ADVENTURE! The tomb turns out to be horribly short, and the  ending leads into the next module badly. You can't roleplay a month of  searching to no avail; players won't stand for that. So I had to tell them  once they got back to Shadowdale that a month goes by and then they have  this dream. Hmmmm...lame<br />But just wait if you play the next adventure it  gets much much worse. Uhhhh :(	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R2RXW8XR2D1CZB	0880380314	746649365	Advanced Dungeons and Dragons: Monster Manual II (#2016)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Still an Essential Product	This book has a lot of creatures that can be found no where else as well as a good look at demons and devils. While all the creatures in the first monster manual can be found in the newer versions this book is truely  unique. If you ever get a chance to buy one, do so even if you already have  the new monster manual.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R16X2TW0E89GIL	0880380004	349610114	Against the Cult of the Reptile God: An Adventure for Character, Levels 1-3 (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons Module, No. N1)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Excellent low level module	This adventure has it all, but I still think (T1-4) The Temple of  Elemental Evil is the best of all time. This gives players a chance to  roleplay in a well thought out and developed town where they attempt to  discover what is terrorizing the poor sleepy community. Once they discover  what is going on the adventurers get to dive into a fun dungeon that has  the right balance of good creatures and well deserved treasure. This can be  fun even for those dimwitted players that couldn't solve a mystery to save  their lives(and it usually does). Design some subplots around the meaty  town or use the kidnappings setup in the module. You may find yourself  wanting to stay in this town for quite some time! Hey eventually everyone  has to figure it out right?	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R2NIULO5BSNR27	0786901705	585369372	The Return of Randal Morn (AD&D Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	The only decent adventure in an otherwise awful series	The other reviewers discription is far off the mark and makes me wonder if  he has even read the adventure!<br />As I said in the title it is the best  module in the trilogy, but the rest of the series blows. Don't play the  other modules in this series. They are boring and a good way to cause  mutiny from your players. Make the other modules up yourself or bring a  midsized group of 2-4 level adventures through this single adventure  instead. If you are inventive, Gothyl can make a good villian or obstacle  in later adventures. Another note, the magic items given out in this  adventure are pretty substantial and might be a little excessive in some  campaigns.<br />The adventurers are being deceived by an arch-shadow named  Gothyl who is attempting to reach Demi-shade status (this may be a new  creature but I'm not sure). The body of Randal Morn was stolen by Ilthrond,  a Zhent mage, and he has fled to Dagger Falls. The adventurers are  compelled to rescue Randal by Gothyl. On the way they meet the freedom  riders, a group of rebels seeking the liberation of Dagger Falls from the  Zhents, and asked to scout out the town for an invasion of the town by the  freedom riders. While doing this they are captured and must escape but this  is setup so that it is not too difficult. In the process Gothyl obtains her  demi-shade status. After that the adventurers have a few more short  assignment before an orc attack which they may get involved in.<br />ALL IN  ALL THIS IS A DECENT ADVENTURE, BUT IT DOESN'T EVEN COMPARE TO THE ACCURSED  TOWER AND SOME OF THE OTHER ADVENTURES THAT ARE COMING OUT NOW.	2000-07-07
US	49432295	R2GLM2AJV877UT	0786913762	905450441	Road to Danger (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Short but Good	This is a Dragon Magazine short adventure book. I have played Grakhirt's Lair and The Inheritence (two of the adventures in this module).  They were pretty good if you did a little fleshing out, however quite short. Levels  1-3. Get it if you need something to do on the fly or if you need an idea  for an adventure with a presetup framework.	2000-06-01
US	49432295	RXBF8FQBG4QGM	039454840X	763828552	Castle Caldwell and Beyond (Dungeons and Dragons : Basic Game Adventure, B9, for Character Levels 1-3)	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Old Style Hack-and-Slash /w  disconnected plots?	This adventure is quite bland in the begining and doesn't get much better.  It consists of 5 different parts, but the first two parts don't really go along with the rest of the module.  This isn't too terrible as the  adventures can be played separately if you need something to get started up  fast or just want give some characters some experience.	2000-06-01
US	49432295	R2SZYC2KR74CLM	0786903295	675710726	Player's Handbook Advanced Dungeons & Dragons (2nd Ed Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Wait for 3rd edition PHB	Wait for 3rd edition PHB it is scheduled for release in August.  I have been playing for 12 years and I liked the 2nd ed rules but 3rd ed is supposed to be quite interesting and all the new adventures will begin to  be produced using these rules soon.	2000-06-01
US	49432295	R3Q0ECVU56MTJV	0786913371	515017246	ACCURSED TOWER, THE (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons: Forgotten Realms)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	It's best low level adventure in Forgotten Realms	This is a shining star for Forgotten Realms.  If you don't mind playing a low level adventure, buy the accursed tower.  This adventure has everything a DM could want.  Good story line, overland travel allowing lots of  opportunity to roleplay as well as a difficult but survivable underground  crawl.  It is must play for anyone who has read the Icewind Dale trilogy  and wants to juice up the campaign with small parts featuring your favorite  NPCs.     This module is also good for younger DMs as it provides well laid  out text boxes.  It even has excellent subplots that can be explored after  the adventure.  The only thing I feel that needs to pointed out is the map.  Pretty but flawed (watchout for the stairway that seemly dissappear). There  are a large amount of magic items, but it is the Realms.  I only hope TSR  will now make some good mid level adventues.	2000-06-01
US	49432295	RQ5069EE729HA	1560765593	475232154	The Marklands (World of Greyhawk WGR4) (Advanced Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Sourcebook	The Marklands decribes two Greyhawk lands at the time of the &quot;From the Ashes&quot; box set. I think around 591 c. Anyway it goes into the political and military intrigues of Furyrondy and Nyrond.  If you like  Greyhawk I recommend it as a source to build lots of adventures or wars.	2000-06-01
