US	49444977	R14XB9RJAN0YOX	1560760478	246260210	Sojourn: The Dark Elf Trilogy, Part 3 (Forgotten Realms: The Legend of Drizzt, Book III)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The conclusion of the Dark Elf trilogy	This novel concludes the Dark Elf trilogy. The series was quite good, not amazing but not terrible either. The most interesting part of the series was the first book (Homeland) where Salvatore laid out the entire world that Drizzt lived in.<br />The second book shows how Drizzit rejected his society and struck out on his own. However, his race is so widely hated that finding acceptance was quite difficult. Indeed, this theme continues to be of importance in this novel and in &quot;The Crystal Shard&quot; (book 1 of the Icewind Dale Trilogy). <br />The reason I liked this novel was for the final change in scenery; Drizzit finally emerges from the Underdark to see the daylight. He finally finds some measure of acceptance in this world; but it is hard won and not without misunderstandings. Indeed, this novel brings back the inner turmoil that is a feature of many of Salvatore's protagonists. Dealing with violence continues to be a problem for Drizzit. When should he use his swords? Why does he still feel guilty if he kills someone in the name of self-defence?<br />As I mentioned in my review of \\"Exile,\\" there are typical fantasy elements in this novel in addition to Drizzit's problems and struggles. There are battles, fantastic monsters and other such staples of the fantasy genre. While reading these novels is enjoyable, I've been looking for something that it is in the same epic vein as, \\"The Lord of the Rings.\\" I remain open to recommendations. <br />The series was reasonably interesting. This is my eighth Salvatore novel that I've read in recent months. I've started the Icewind Dale Trilogy, but I don't know how much of it I will read. I may switch to reading a different genre for a while for variety.	2002-10-29
US	49444977	R18NZ3RHCKAYAK	0385333498	794708589	The Sirens of Titan: A Novel	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Thoughts on the meaning of life	This is the first Vonnegut novel I've read. It was interesting but odd. In some small ways, it reminded me of the Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy. The plot left something to be desired, but the message of the novel was quite interesting. As other reviewers have pointed out, the book is about the meaning of life and fate. Indeed, there is even a new religion created to foster and advance these new ideas. <br />The book's message about the meaning of life can be interpreted differently. The most obvious interpretation of the novel is that mankind's purpose was to be the tool of aliens to serve a trivial end (producing a spare part for a space ship). This would mean that man's existence is ultimately pointless. The other more interesting way to look at it is that Vonnegut is trying to say that the meaning of life is a mystery, that when revealed will surprise everyone. This is the main idea in the book, but it is unwrapped very slowly. <br />The religion that Vonnegut creates is called the Church of God the Utterly Indifferent, and \\"Take Care of the People and God Will Take Care of Himself,\\" is the Church's motto. The founder of the religion then proceeds to predict that his religion will end all of the world's problems... This sketches incredulity just past the breaking point. Vonnegut's rehashing of deism is left with the weighty philosophical and emotional problem of evil to contend with and no solution is in sight.<br />I don't know if I'll read more Vonnegut or not. The book was somewhat enticing and there were some interesting ideas presented here. While Vonnegut is classified as a science fiction writer, I don't know if this particular novel could be classed as such. While it is true that some space travel and technology is involved, it is not hard SF in the sense that the story is not centred on science and technology.	2002-09-06
US	49444977	R16BFS7U6YE6ZY	0880389206	5618724	Exile: Forgotten Realms (The Dark Elf Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Enjoyable but not "great" fantasy	... Don't get me wrong, I enjoy fantasy and Salvatore's work has been agreeable. But, do keep this work in perspective. This is the seventh novel I've read by him, so I think I have some idea what his style is like by now.<br />The novel does have some interesting parts though the interesting setting of Drizzt's (the protagonist) home city is no longer featured. Drizzt struggles to maintain his identity and this theme is also seen in the character of Clacker. Clacker, I admit, is a fairly shallow character. Yet, he does serve a useful function in battle and helps the reader explore identity. The setting of this novel is predominantly in the \\"wilds\\" of the Underdark, outside of the cities. This isolation from one's family, even an evil family like Drizzt's, and one's society are different ways to look at the theme of identity in this novel. Indeed, Drizzy almost loses his identity. He regains it, but I wouldn't want to spoil the story for you by revealing how.<br />For those readers who may think that I am reading too much in this novel, you may have a point. Yet, much contemporary fantasy is at least loosely based on or inspired by ancient European mythology (most notably German, English and Scandinavian) which tell us interesting things about humanity. Tales of power, evil, temptations are but some of the themes that fantasy touches upon. The first \\"contemporary\\" fantasy novel, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" is a great example of this. The book \\"Tolkien's Ring\\" looks at some of the inspiration behind the Tolkien's most famous work.<br />Finally, for those readers who must know, this novel still has all the trademark elements of a Salvatore novel. There are plenty of monsters, spells, battles and sword play. Unlike the Cleric Quintet by Salvatore, there is little in the way of epic battles. Mostly, battles involve small groups or even single duels. While I do find such battles of some interest, it is the internal struggles of the characters that makes these novels interesting to me.<br />...	2002-08-30
US	49444977	R396XUFNYS3XVN	0880389052	243097701	Homeland (Forgotten Realms)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	The beginning of Salvatore's most famous work	After asking some of my friends to recommend fantasy authors, several mentioned Salvatore and, in particular, the Dark Elf Trilogy. I have read (and reviewed) the Cleric Quintet, and now, having finished my sixth Salvatore novel, I think I understand his style. <br />Salvatore sets most of his novels in the the world of the Dungeons and Dragons role-playing game. Of course, there is a considerable difference between playing D&D and reading a novel. I find myself forced to agree with some of the other reviewers here that I could anticipate much of the plot development in advance. The characters lack of depth is clearly seen; they are evil and that is all there is to it. Ambiguity in this sense is almost always important to such story telling.<br />The idea of the one lone character struggling against a whole society or organization that has corrupted or is corrupt is also one of the premises in the Cleric Quintet series. There is some difference between the two, but it was mildly disappointing to see the same idea reused.<br />What I found most intriguing about this novel is the same thing I find intriguing in many different science fiction and fantasy novels. It is the world that the author paints as the background. Drizzt, the main character, is a male dark elf who lives in a fiercely matriarchal society. This is quite unusual in a genre that is frequently dominated by male heroes. There is also the idea that the entire society lives underground in the \\"Underdark\\" of the world. There were a few other things that were of interest in the novel, such as the trials and tribulations that Drizzt undergoes growing up in a drow (dark elf) society.<br />I think I enjoyed this novel more than much of the Cleric Quintet series (\\"Nightmasks\\" was something of an exception), because the Cleric Quintet seemed to have too many battles (part of that was that nature of the story, but reading about battle after battle can be a little numbing).	2002-08-22
US	49444977	R1XUBO8E50F4YW	0786916060	111054539	Night Masks (Forgotten Realms:  The Cleric Quintet, Book 3)	Books	3	1	2	N	N	The priest continues to develop	This book is the third in the \\"Cleric Quintet\\" series by R.A. Salvatore. I liked this book more than the previous one in the series. Cadderly, the protagonist, starts to develop more than before. After fleeing from a battle in the previous novel, he moves to a nearby city instead of going back to the place where he has lived most of his life; the Edificant Library. It is here that Cadderly's religious struggles start to manifest themselves. Cadderly's continued struggle with violence (and a consequent trepidation with battle) slowly starts to resolve itself. <br />Cadderly starts to have mystical experiences with his a holy book and eventually learns how to control it. The introduction of the \\"Night Masks\\" a feared group of assassins is somewhat interesting. It is certainly a change from the constant battles against goblins, giants and the like that filled the second novel in this series. In particular, the villain of this work is original and indeed truly evil. My only criticism with the villains of this series is that they often seem to be a little flat; they are simply evil. There is little ambiguity to make the reader think.<br />The most original aspect to this series, which mentioned in my review of \\"Canticle\\" (the first novel of the series), is in putting a priest on center stage instead of the more traditional fighters. The inclusion of a monk and two dwarves mean that the novel still retains a traditional amount of firepower. One might even say that the heroes of the novel defeat their villains a little to easily, but that is too be expected.<br />In response to some of the other reviewers here, I think some are to quick to praise the series, frequently giving it a 5 star rating. I think that is too generous, while at the same time, I think it is unfair to label this work as trash. It is a reasonably good series, but I don't know if it is worth buying. If you want to read the classic fantasy novel, there is no question. The novel you want is, \\"The Lord of the Rings.\\" It launched the modern fantasy genre and, for many people, remains the standard against which all other fantasy novels are too be measured.	2002-08-14
US	49444977	R1R92604R66T8E	0786916087	310345712	The Chaos Curse (Forgotten Realms:  The Cleric Quintet, Book 5)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Okay conclusion to interesting series	... there are some interesting elements here. As hinted at in some of the previous novels of the series, Cadderly has something a reformer attitude. He believes his order has strayed away from its tenets and that it is too consumed with ritual and dusty tomes rather than helping people etc... Cadderly's religious order is headed up by Dean Thobiscus who, in Cadderly's view, personifies the ritualistic and power politics that have corrupted the order. This conflict had potential to be developed more, but this did not happen.<br />There was one improvement over the previous book in the series. Cadderly finally faces a foe that he finds difficult to combat. Obviously, I don't want to reveal who this last villain is but it was reasonably done. There is also some genuine risk involved here as Cadderly's lover, Danica, is captured. Where is the setting for this confrontation? The Edificant Library which has been overcome by the forces of darkness. Also, he faces an important choice near the end; to follow the calling of his God completely or continue his relationship with Danica. <br />...	2002-08-12
US	49444977	R1B923ARQ9LIE8	1893554120	824181499	The Killing of History: How Literary Critics and Social Theorists Are Murdering Our Past	Books	5	58	64	N	N	Where relativism came from and why it doesn't make sense	Don't let the title of the book fool you. While the title may seem to be something of an exaggeration, I think Windschuttle makes his case. He argues that relativism (the idea that there is no absolute, universal truth or knowledge) is making history, a discipline that seeks to discover the truth about the past, impossible.<br />He starts the book by showing where relativism came from. Primarily, relativism was thought up by a number of French intellectuals in the 1960's. These philosophers and theorists (e.g. Derrida, Foucault, etc) also drew some of their ideas from 19th century philosophers such as Nietzsche (who is frequently quoted as saying, \\"There are no facts but only interpretations.\\") and Heidegger. The theories that these thinkers came up with have several different names (e.g. structuralism, post-structuralism, post-modernism etc...) but they all have a common commitment to relativism. The fact that relativism is an incoherent, self-contradictory philosophy should be obvious to all after some reflection on the topic. I would recommend, \\"Relativism: Feet planted firmly in mid-air,\\" by Francis Beckwith and Gregory Koukl (which I have reviewed) for a book length treatment of why relativism is false. Windschuttle focuses on the cultural relativism (i.e. the idea that all cultures are equal and that there are no ideas or truths which transcend culture) whereas Beckwith and Koukl focus on moral relativism (i.e. the idea that there is no universal morality).<br />Windschuttle makes his case by examining a number of theorists and their writings about specific historical events. For example, Windschuttle discusses the death of James Cook in Hawaii, early Australian history, the Spanish conquest of Mexico, Columbus' discovery of America and the like. Windschuttle demonstrates that all these \\"historians\\" (who are often trained as literary critics or some other discipline) take their theory or ideology and force it upon the evidence to the point of fudging importantdetails, ignoring the research of other historians and even in a few cases to the out-right fabrication of information.<br />Although parts of the book can be difficult to follow, Windschuttle endeavors to make his work understandable to most intelligent readers in contrast to many of the intellectuals now in favor who deliberately engage in obscurantist writing. The author also makes several interesting observations regarding the motives of many academics. For example, one of the reasons that cultural relativism is so popular is due to the fact that academics wish to seen on the side of oppressed native peoples and other disfavored people (Michael Focault's books are good example of this). Also, these academics could be accused of taking these positions simply because they wish to be seen to be fully politically correct. <br />At one point, Windschuttle says that writing history in this new politically motivated, theory-laden fashion is easier than traditional research. He says, \\"[t]ackling the main issues of human experience no longer requires the hard work of steeping yourself in the writings of all those practitioners of your discipline who have gone before you, and then putting the even harder slog of doing your own research. Instead all you need to do is take a small selection of of the more prominent and familiar authors, label in terms used by the currently fashionable theoretical guru, add some linguistic speculation about the textuality of everything, and then wait for the self-same guru or his acolytes to recognize your genius and lavish you with hyperbole.\\" (page 118)<br />The last chapter of the book entitled, \\"The Return of Tribalism: Cultural relativism, structuralism, and the death of Cook,\\" is one of the most interesting chapters of the book. In addition to showing in a final flourish that relativism is self-contradictory, the author shows further, that the Western tradition of the scientific method and Western historical discipline are the best way for indigenous people to understand their past. Further, the adoption of relativism resurrects tribalism (the idea that every society is completely different from all others) that has wrecked so much havoc in Rwanda, Bosnia and other parts of the world.	2002-08-12
US	49444977	R1QQOSBW2N9PXH	0786916079	709650632	The Fallen Fortress (Forgotten Realms:  The Cleric Quintet, Book 4)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Cadderly is overpowered: worst in the series	This, the fourth book, in Salvatore's &quot;Cleric's Quintet,&quot; is probably the worst novel in the five book series. There were a few promising ideas that could have been developed more but alas, no such luck. This book is meant to be the climax of the story, which resolves around the plans of Castle Trinity to conquer part of the Realms. <br />Cadderly, the lead character, becomes more and more powerful with each passing page. His development seems to have been arrested and I found him less interesting than in the previous books. In &quot;Canticle&quot; (which I've reviewed), Cadderly was inexperienced and he depended on his friends to help him. He also had several internal struggles that gave him some depth. However, here, Cadderly seems to be able to overcome any obstacle with little trouble.<br />The story development leaves something to be desired as well. Salvatore brings back one of the interesting villains from a previous book (&quot;Nightmasks&quot;) and then dispatches him without so much as the villain facing off against Cadderly. Other reviewers have mentioned this and I have to find myself agreeing with them. Cadderly's incredible and frequent use of magic becomes something of deus ex machina. There are supposed to be limits on what magic (i.e. power) can accomplish and it seems something of the balance was lost here. It is a pitfall that every fantasy author must always attempt to steer clear off.<br />There is one development in this book that hints at what will happen to the Edificant Library (a bastion of priests and good gods) in the following novel. I don't want to say anymore on that note for fear of spoiling the plot.<br />Please refer to my review of all the other novels in this series.	2002-08-11
US	49444977	R3QUZ7DQ8PPJ2Y	0786916044	274941603	Canticle (Forgotten Realms) (Bk. 1)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Interesting fantasy with an original setting	When I think of a fantasy setting, whether it be in the tradition of Tolkien's, &quot;Lord of the Rings,&quot; (see my reviews of this excellent novel), Arthurian legend or a Dungeon's &amp; Dragons (D&amp;D) game, I think of underground catacombs, caves and other such places. The unexpected setting for this novel is a library, with a priest (cleric) as its protagonist.<br />I have played D&amp;D for some time and I enjoy the interactive story-telling aspect of it. I was unsure how this element of the game would translate into a novel. While there was one or two plot devices in this novel that I didn't particularly like, I enjoyed it overall. This novel forms the first part of a five-part series. The main character, Cadderly, is a cleric of Deneir (god of knowledge and beauty) was abandoned as an orphan to live in the Edificant Library. He subsequently develops into an accomplished scholar (Salvatore never lets you forget it; he constantly refers to Cadderly as &quot;the young scholar&quot;) at the Library.<br />While I recognized some of the plot right away, it was nonetheless an interesting. I'm reading this novel as part of the 1000 page &quot;Cleric Quintet, Collector's Edition.&quot; The author's foreword is interesting; he discusses the meetings he had prior to writing to the book and of one interesting letter he received from a reader. The reader is a born-again Christian who congratulated Salvatore on his portrayal of Cadderly; the reader says that Cadderly's stuggle with religious duty and with doubt paralleled that of his one life.<br />As I continue to read through the series, the inner turmoil that affects Cadderly slowly becomes more apparent. He begins his life as a scholar who rarely ventured beyond the walls of the Library and slowly changes into an adventurer. <br />Before I read this novel, I asked some of more well read what sort of fantasy novels or authors they could recommend (while I have some familiarity with science fiction, history, religion and philosophy, the fantasy genre remains new to me), they mentioned Salvatore. This author is most famous for his &quot;Dark Elf&quot; trilogy, but I decided to read this somewhat lesser known work first.	2002-07-30
US	49444977	R27PPN5M9O27U	0879753374	994997736	The Second Treatise on Civil Government (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Significant but sometimes difficult to follow	The importance of this book, first published in 1690, cannot be denied. The book's most famous and controversial idea is that the people have a right to overthrow their government if the government fails consistently in its responsibilities and duties.<br />The book, which lacks an introduction or conclusion, may be challenging for modern readers. Locke's writing covers a wide range of topics; conquest, paternal power (i.e. the power that fathers have over their children), despotical power and his over-arching central concern, property.<br />The main ideas of the book are that government exists by the consent of the governed who found government for the purpose of securing their lives, rights and property. Locke frequently contrasts people who live in a state of nature (i.e. no government; people enjoy considerable personal freedom) and those that live under government. Under Locke's view of the social contract, men give up give up the unlimited freedom they enjoyed in the state of nature so as to secure their life, limb and property more securely under government. There is also some discussion of the idea of separation of powers; what is interesting here is that Locke does not use the traditional formulation (i.e. executive, legislative, and judicial), rather he discusses executive, legislative and \\"federative\\" (by which he means the conduct of self-defense and foreign policy) powers.<br />The type of government that Locke describes more closely resembles the system employed by Britain and Canada, more than the United States. He conceives of a monarch or prince at the top of the government (as in Britain and Canada; the Monarch is the Head of State), with the legislature representing the people (Parliament) and so on. This is not to deny that this book still holds value for Americans, as other reviewers have pointed out.<br />All that said, I would not recommend this particular edition of the book. The lack of introduction to put Locke in his historical context canmake the book difficult to understand and some of Locke's 17th century references will simply be skipped over by most readers. However, if you simply want a copy of the book that is plain and plan to quote from it, this edition is quite useful. Each paragraph of the book is numbered allowing a researcher to precisely footnote information.	2002-07-30
US	49444977	R33PGHUBRW2922	0786916052	603939867	In Sylvan Shadows (Forgotten Realms)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A battle in book form; some character development	In comparing this novel with the previous one in the series, \\"Canticle,\\" this strikes me as a book-length battle with little else. Though I recognize that this was necessary for the story that Salvatore is trying to tell, it was not my preference.<br />The interesting parts of the novel are Cadderly's (the main character) struggle with violence; he struggles with every battle compared to his more worldly friends (Cadderly has lived his whole life in the monastery-like Edificant Library). In addition, the relationship among the villains (the operate as a triumvirate; priests, wizards and fighters) is more thoroughly fleshed out. The novel takes place in an Elven forest that has been invaded by goblins, ogres, giants etc.. The elves of the forest had many parallels to Tolkien's elves. For example, Tolkien's and Salvatore's elves are in the decline and they have few warriors to combat the increasing threats of the world. There is also the antagonism between dwarves and elves, which seems lifted from Tolkien's work. Also, readers of Tolkien will recognize the concept of the ents in this novel.<br />Salvatore's writing of battle is quite appropriate to a fantasy setting; there is some use of magic, but most of the battles are won on the basis of cunning and technique rather than wizardry. Some of the other characters developed in this novel caught my interest. There is a developing love interest between Cadderly and Danica (a monk whose discipline has allowed hear to become a formidable warrior), which is something different from the traditional prince and princess concept. There are also the two Dwarves (Ivan and Pikel) who provide a measure of comic relief. The brothers were the cooks of the Edificant Library but once summoned back to adventuring, they prove a considerable asset.<br />This novel was something of a mild disappointment after the interesting, fresh story that the first novel began with. The third novel in the series \\"Night Masks\\" appears more promising but I wonder how the series will play out.	2002-07-30
US	49444977	R20S8NEHRAQW3A	0385483724	683164590	Desire of the Everlasting Hills: The World Before and After Jesus (Hinges of History)	Books	4	11	17	N	N	Some interesting observations; poor research	Someone who knew of my interest in history gave me this book. They hoped that I would enjoy it. Unfortunately, I have to say that I was not impressed. Cahill's goal in the book is to evaluate the cultural impact that Jesus has had on Western culture. Surely, this sounds promising. However, the bulk of the text is concerned with providing the reader with background on Jesus and summarizing the New Testament; more chapters evaluating the impact of the Church and the like would have been more interesting. To briefly explain the title of the book, it is based on Genesis 49:26 and Cahill understands it to mean: \\"What could be the meaning of this phrase...? Is not the desire of the everlasting hills that they be saved from their everlastingness, that something new happen, that the everlasting cycle of human cruelty, of man's inhumanity to man, be brought to an end?\\" (page 8).<br />Cahill begins with a few chapters that cover political and social developments that occurred before Jesus' time. This includes the conquest of Alexander the Great, the subsequent fragmentation of his empire, the rise of the Romans and what all this meant for the Jews living in Israel. I found this section boring because it was almost completely review for me. For a novice who knows little or nothing of ancient history, these chapters may be of some interest. Yet, the part on the inter-testament period (i.e. 300/400 BC to 1 AD) was somewhat interesting. The last chapters on Jesus' impact are of some interest. The rest of the book summarizes the content of the Gospels, Paul's letters and Revelation.<br />Though Cahill presents a fairly liberal understanding of Jesus, he does maintain some balance. For example, he acknowledges on page 74 that John Dominic Crossan's controversial ideas about Jesus are in the scholarly minority and that Crossan's and other extreme liberals often base their ideas on weak evidence. One of the most interesting parts of the entire book is the way Cahill interprets Revelation. His approach is to identify the various metaphorical references of Revelation to historical figures such as Nero. This interpretation stands in stark contrasts to the wild, bizarre \\"end days\\" that have been so popular of late.<br />Cahill's method of documenting his sources leaves much to be desired. Frequently, he will write something like, \\"[s]ome scholars have seen this abrupt ending as proof that Jesus was not 'raised' and that Mark is merely recounting a wild rumor.\\" (page 110; note that Cahill goes to say that this idea is quite wild indeed), but my problem with this is that there is no footnote, no explanation of who exactly these scholars are and in what publication have they asserted these views. The book does have a 12 page section \\"Notes and Sources\\" where Cahill vaguely discusses some of the sources he used and their usefulness, this method lacks rigor. Where exactly did the significant ideas he discusses come from? Though the casual reader will probably not be bothered by this, but I expect rigor footnotes, bibliography from authors, especially when they are dealing with Jesus, a person who never fails to ignite controversy.<br />All throughout, Cahill emphasizes the humanity of Jesus and how he cared for the poor, the powerless and so forth. While this is an important aspect to understanding Jesus' teachings, it is equally important to understand his divinity which Cahill only discusses a few times. For example, Cahill says that many people find the Gospel of John difficult to accept because it has the, \\"... the exaggerated God-Man... [and] not only the sure source of the exalted doctrines of later Christianity... but also a spirit of touchy exclusivity.\\" (Page 272) The \\"exclusivity\\" that Cahill refers to (e.g. see John 14:6) is part and parcel of Christianity and it is not found in John alone (e.g. see Hebrews 8: 6-7, 13), likewise the same can be said of Jesus' divinity (Mark for example has a strong Christology. Cahill is very uncomfortable with Jesus/Christianity being exclusive and he starts the book with a quote (from a Jewish-Christian dialogue at Fordham University, also reprinted on pg. 333):<br />\\"The challenge that the Jewishness of Jesus brings to Christianity must develop a non-supersessionist theology that validates the Christian message and the Christian promise for Christians without at the same time de-legitimatising the Judaism for Jews. Christians must find a way to maintain Christianity's identity and sense of purpose without at the same denying Judaism a reason for its continued existence...The challenge that the Jewishness of Jesus brings to Judaism is that Jews must develop a theology... that validates the Jewish way without at the same time de-legitimizing the Christian message and Christian promise for Christians...\\"<br />The problem with this is that it violates the New Testament (see John 14:6, Hebrews 8:6-7, 13 etc) and that it is illogical. For a more in-depth discussion of religious pluralism, see my review of \\"Dissonant Voices,\\" by Harold A. Netland. Other people have mentioned Cahill's \\"How the Irish saved civilization\\" as being a better book than this one; I may review it at some point in the future.	2002-07-23
US	49444977	R67B3QBZ5GVAO	0750918802	232066990	God Wills It!	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Brief, interesting introduction to the Crusades	As the other reviewers have pointed out, Bartlett maintains a balance between academic thoroughness and readability. Bartlett tends to lean more towards readability though. He covers the entire Crusading era and the book is richly illustrated with period pictures (e.g. pictures of tapestries) and modern pictures of various sites (e.g. sites in Jerusalem, various Crusader castles built in the Middle East). I was surprised there were not more maps in the book though. As time progresses, Outremer (the name of the Crusader Kingdom, also called the Kingdom of Jerusalem) changes shape and experiences several major changes throughout its life.<br />Bartlett covers the whole gamut of Crusader history from the first Crusade (1095 AD) to the final fall of Outremer (around 1285AD). He covers the successes of the First and Second Crusades and the terrible failures that were the Third and Fourth Crusades. Bartlett does not shy away from discussing the brutality of the all the parties involved whether it be the Crusader slaughter in Jerusalem or the Mongol blood lust that cost thousands of Muslim lives. He also covers the honourable men of the time, such as Saladin, who in many ways lived up to the European ideal of a knight more than any European ever did. Bartlett is honest when dealing with the sources of the time; admitting that some times certain details are disputed or that certain sources may be biased. Indeed, one ought to expect that from any real historian.<br />There are a few problems with the book though. As mentioned above, the lack of maps in an otherwise well illustrated book makes it somewhat difficult to follow the changing fortunes of Outremer. Footnoting of primary sources would be helpful. Some sort of timeline would also make the events clearer. However, the book is reasonably good in its content and includes a bibliography with some comments and an index. If you would like to read some interesting history about the Crusades, this book is a good place to start.	2002-07-11
US	49444977	R3F1Q1FF2E0X48	0750918802	232066990	God Wills It!	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Brief, interesting introduction to the Crusades	As the other reviewers have pointed out, Bartlett maintains a balance between academic thoroughness and readability. Bartlett tends to lean more towards readability though. He covers the entire Crusading era and the book is richly illustrated with period pictures (e.g. pictures of tapestries) and modern pictures of various sites (e.g. sites in Jerusalem, various Crusader castles built in the Middle East). I was surprised there were not more maps in the book though. As time progresses, Outremer (the name of the Crusader Kingdom, also called the Kingdom of Jerusalem) changes shape and experiences several major changes throughout its life.<br />Bartlett covers the whole gamut of Crusader history from the first Crusade (1095 AD) to the final fall of Outremer (around 1285AD). He covers the successes of the First and Second Crusades and the terrible failures that were the Third and Fourth Crusades. Bartlett does not shy away from discussing the brutality of the all the parties involved whether it be the Crusader slaughter in Jerusalem or the Mongol blood lust that cost thousands of Muslim lives. He also covers the honourable men of the time, such as Saladin, who in many ways lived up to the European ideal of a knight more than any European ever did. Bartlett is honest when dealing with the sources of the time; admitting that some times certain details are disputed or that certain sources may be biased. Indeed, one ought to expect that from any real historian.<br />There are a few problems with the book though. As mentioned above, the lack of maps in an otherwise well illustrated book makes it somewhat difficult to follow the changing fortunes of Outremer. Footnoting of primary sources would be helpful. Some sort of timeline would also make the events clearer. However, the book is reasonably good in its content and includes a bibliography with some comments and an index. If you would like to read some interesting history about the Crusades, this book is a good place to start.	2002-07-05
US	49444977	R3GK5T3OSWQ3ZX	039331619X	210743552	Why the Allies Won	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Balanced, fair and detailed analysis of World War 2	The most striking aspect of this book is the balance of the author. He makes it clear at the very beginning that Allied victory was by no means guaranteed or inevitable. This attitude insures that he covers both Allied brilliance and blunder. At the same time, he mentions Axis failings and Axis successes.<br />Richard Overy's, a British historian at King's College, is as follows:<BR>\\"I have not tried to provide a general history of the war... The focus of this book is to explain the outcome, rather than to describe its course. I have restricted the narrative to those parts of the conflict that I regard as decisive...\\" (Preface)<br />Overy's book divides into two areas; military history and wider social and political history. He covers `The Battle for the Seas' (Atlantic and Pacific), the Russian front (Stalingrad and Kursk), the bombing campaign, and the D-Day invasions. This includes the typical stock of movements that one would expect of a military history. There are times in which the causal reader can feel drowned amid the amount of different commanders, divisions, Armies, locations, battles and the like but it is worthwhile to read. I found the second section much more interesting because I think it explained more of the root causes for Allied victory than a straight narration of the military events affords.<br />Overy uses many statistics but he almost always puts them into a meaningful context. There are several examples of production that are quite fascinating. For example, the Ford Company alone produced more army equipment during the war than Italy. (page 195) The Ford Company alone produced over five thousand aircraft in 1944. (page 197) \\"The V-weapons [the first military missiles ever developed] programme cost over 5 billion marks, and absorbed tens of thousands of workers. The resources that went to build them could, according to the American Bombing Survey, have produced an additional 24,000 aircraft.\\" (page 240) Overy is also a good researcher in thathe footnotes every significant fact (there are over 700 footnotes) and a wide range of sources (his \\"selected\\" bibliography is over 12 pages long). The footnotes and bibliography combined with a reasonable index makes this book a valuable resources for those researching World War 2 in an academic setting. <br />However, do not get the impression that Overy is only interested in production figures and GDP. His discussion of the Allied leadership is very interesting. One of his observations is that, over the course of the war, the Allied leaders (Churchill, Roosevelt, and Stalin) became less and less involved in the war effort, leaving the conduct of the war to the professionals. In contrast, the German military was frequently consumed by internal bickering, lack integration and routinely interfered with industry.<br />It is interesting that Overy devotes a chapter to the morality and morale that the Axis and Allies had. He points out that there is a limit to what raw fear and coercion can accomplish. The fact that the Allies were fighting in self-defense (especially the Soviet Union) motivated both the populations and military more than threats and boasts of superiority could have. He substantiates his analysis with American polls taken immediately following the war of Japanese and German citizens, absentee rates and the like.<br />Overy routinely shows how the decisions of individuals changed the course of the war and this contributes to the sense that almost nothing in the war as a given or was inevitable. For example, if Hitler had listened to his generals, integrated the military (instead of having the army and air force competing for glory) and some other decisions, the war could have been very different. His discussion of the different Allied leaders, including Eisenhower, Marshall, Stalin, Roosevelt, Brooke, and others is useful. He covers the pre-war history where it is relevant (e.g. Roosevelt's long experience in politics, his tendency to build coalitionsetc) and other details.<br />Overy concludes the main text of the book with the final comment that, \\"[t]hough from today's perspective Allied victory might seem somehow inevitable, the conflict was poised on a knife-edge in the middle years of the war.\\" (page 325) All in all, Overy is a balanced historian who acknowledges historical problems (such as evaluating the contributions of Stalin), documents his case meticulously and provides a comprehensive analysis that links morale, economics, fighting ability and everything else into an interconnected web to explain Allied victory in 1945	2002-06-17
US	49444977	R2LUV12GT3SRZ7	157910438X	573893861	The Kalām Cosmological Argument	Books	5	38	48	N	N	Excellent philosophical argument for God's existence	The other reviews here are quite comprehensive, so it will be difficult to add something new. However, I will try.<br />I have seen Craig in debate numerous times, read one of his other books (&quot;Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics) and he is the best intellectually respectable defenders of Christianity alive today. Comparing his debates to this book shows that Craig has a wide range and knows how to argue at a level appropriate to his audience. Craig can talk to the interested public and academic philosophers alike. This book definitely falls into the second category (Craig did his first Ph. D on it) and it is aimed at those who want a comprehensive defense of this one particular argument for God's existence.<br />The book is divided into two main sections. A historical review of the argument as it was originally presented by various Islamic philosophers about a thousand years ago starts the book. I found most of the arguments here comprehensible because Craig had the foresight to put the arguments into a chart, so that you can visually see the progression of the ideas. For most readers, this material will be completely new. Islamic philosophers are rarely covered in first year university and courses on such topics are few and far between.<br />The second section is the modern defense of the kalam cosmological argument. Craig arguments are of two types; philosophical (using mathematics as his evidence) and scientific or empirical (using astronomy and physics as his evidence). The mathematics arguments are extremely difficult to follow and I think most readers will only understand parts of it. Some of his observations are as follows; even if an actual infinite exists in mathematics, it is generally thought that mathematical concepts have no concrete existence (this is something of a simplification, but that is unavoidable in the space available), that an infinite cannot be formed by addition and so on. I get the impression that the mathematics Craiguses (primarily set theory) is a simply a modern presentation of the Islamic arguments, which I founder easier to comprehend. The basic conclusion offered is that an actual infinite is mired in contradictions and thus cannot exist.<br />The second part of his evidence deals with astronomy, the Big Bang, thermodynamics and so on. Craig refutes the non-Big Bang models of the universe. The Big Bang model of the universe asserts that the universe began to exist approximately 15 billion years ago. The steady state model (which asserts that the universe is eternal) was refuted by empirical evidence in the 1960's while the oscillating model is confronted by major physical problems that make it quite implausible. Craig prefaces this section with a comment that some people find abstract philosophical argumentation too difficult and thus prefer the &quot;concrete&quot; sciences. Personally, I think that philosophy is better equipped, as a discipline, to address questions such as: Is the universe eternal? Did the Universe have a cause?<br />Briefly, near the end of the book, Craig defends what he rightly regards as the causality principle. The principle holds that whatever begins to exist has a cause. Craig presents the arguments of some other philosophers who attempt to show that this principle is self-evident or otherwise inescapable. <br />This is, without a doubt, the most difficult book I have read this year. Yet, it is quite rewarding. Craig successfully argues against all those who disagree with him and it is challenging to imagine a refutation of his position. If you have taken &quot;Philosophy of religion&quot; courses at the university level, you would definitely appreciate the book although some of the math-based arguments may be difficult to follow. I would only recommend it to people with a broad understanding of philosophy and or apologetics. If you would like an beginner's introduction on how to defend the Christian faith, I recommend, &quot;The Case for Faith,&quot; by Lee Strobel (very readable and easy to understand), &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot; by C.S. Lewis (a classic defense of Christianity, but it is quite short and not quite as rigorous as I would like). For a more in-depth defense of Christianity that covers both the existence of God, miracles, and Jesus Christ, J.P. Moreland's book, &quot;Scaling the Secular City&quot; (which I have reviewed) is bar none the best. Craig's book, &quot;Reasonable faith,&quot; is also fairly good.<br />P.S. If you intend to offer a substantive critique of the argument, you must undermine the philosophical and scientific arguments for both of them independently establish the beginning of the universe, one of the key elements of the argument. One of the reviewers, George Tucker, &quot;refuted&quot; the argument in less than 100 words without addressing any of Craig's evidence. This is a poor attempt to refute an brilliantly argued book.	2002-06-07
US	49444977	R33ENVB1AP9E3Z	0441790348	739394524	Stranger in a Strange Land (Remembering Tomorrow)	Books	4	22	27	N	N	A mixed novel; some originality, has not aged well	This novel is probably Heinlein's most famous work. It was first published in 1961 and I think this fact is significant. Sometimes, literature does not age well. Heinlein has written other novels (e.g. \\"Starship Troopers\\" was published in 1959; still highly relevant; read my review of it) that have aged much better than this, so you may want to read one or two of his other novels before you decide whether or not you like his work.<br />The novel is divided into four sections that have titles that remind me of a biography of a saint or some other sort of religious figure. Part 1 is called \\"His Maculate Origin.\\" Part Two is called, \\"His Preposterous Heritage.\\" Part Three is called, \\"His Eccentric Education.\\" Part Four is called, \\"His Scandalous Career.\\" Lastly, Part Five is called, \\"His Happy Destiny.\\" This gives the reader some hint about where Heinlein is taking the story and as such is somewhat helpful.<br />I agree with another reviewer that the initial premise of the book is very interesting both as a plot device and as a story. Michael Valentine Smith (he is the \\"Stranger\\" in a strange land) is a human raised on Mars; he is biologically human but philosophically Martian. Native Martians are never physically described but there are some hints about how their society is set up. Due to some interesting legal decisions, it is discovered the Michael is heir to a vast fortune and that he is possibly the ruler of Mars. Initially, Michael finds human culture enormously difficult to understand. However, he manages to get some help. He carries out talks with the politicians and has his rights secured. <br />The ideas in the novel were no doubt very popular in the 1960s. Michael stresses what might be called free love, pantheism (e.g. all his disciples create each other with the phrase \\"Thou Art God\\"), religious pluralism and an incredible optimism that heaven can be created on Earth. There is also a dose of Heinleins trademark libertarianism in some of Michaels views. In part Four, Michael starts up a religious institution to teach people the Martian language and the Martian way of doing things. However, as other reviewers have said, by this point, the novel seems to degenerate into a soapbox for Heinlein to voice his ideas. The way that Heinlein argues for religious pluralism is extremely weak sophistry likewise for his arguments in favor of some sort of \\"new sexuality\\" where sex bonds all sorts of different people, with no apparent rules. There is no explicit homosexuality but the new sexual morality proposed would probably admit it.<br />Understanding the \\"message\\" of the novel is a little tricky. There are some valid observations about how religious institutions are founded and sustained. Indeed, the Fosterite Church strikes me as the ultimate American religion. It combines the \\"new\\" revelation (an idea that Mormonism and Jehovahs Witnesses use), an overwhelming emphasis on Happiness and it is extremely emotional. While there was potential for examining how Earth would react to the discovery of an alien race, it is not really explored. I think the message that Heinlein intended to communicate in the novel is that love, brotherhood etc can create a utopia but established interests will always prevent it from forming. <br />I personally found \\"Starship Troopers\\" a more interesting novel; the next Heinlein novel I read will probably be, \\"The Moon is a Harsh Mistress.\\" My overall impression is that this novels story starts out well but morphs into a soapbox and that it is overrated. Yet, keep in mind, it probably one of the most popular SF novels since World War 2 and most people have extremely polarized opinions about it.	2002-05-29
US	49444977	R39ZYOQO6WS8I0	0679723110	819309084	Grendel	Books	3	13	19	N	N	Existentialist musings of a monster; retells an ancient tale	Having read Seamus Heaney's translation (which I have reviewed) of the original Beowulf, I came across Gardner's \\"Grendel\\" as a new spin on the same story. In the classic version, Beowulf is a strong warrior that arrives at a suffering realm of Hrothgar, an old Dane, who is being constantly assaulted by a strange monster called Grendel. The majority of the epic poem tells of battle, family history and how warriors celebrate (e.g. singing and drinking mead).<br />The first major difference in Gardner's novel when compared to the original poem is the starting point. Gardner starts with Grendel as a being cured with isolation, with only his mother for company. This fact is probably what makes the reader the most sympathetic with Grendel. Grendel's mother is incapable of speech or language, so she cannot truly be a companion for her son. Like the original poem, there is no physical description ever given for Grendel's race and few clues about their origin. There is some suggestion that that they are the spawn of Cain; a cursed version of humanity. The cover illustration provides the reader with some idea but something more specific in terms of Grendel's origin would definitely have been appreciated.<br />The depiction of Grendel reminds the reader of the way Shelley depicted the Creature Frankenstein in her 19th century novel, \\"Frankenstein.\\" He is rejected by humanity when he tries to join them, he is unique (as mentioned above, Grendel's mother cannot really provide a real relationship) and eventually he turns to violence. The thing about Grendel that prevents the reader from being truly sympathetic is his casual killing. Initially, he kills for food and generally stays away from man. Then, as he starts to learn more about men and find out how they treat him, he starts to attack Hrothgar's meadhall every night, murdering a few men and then withdrawing.<br />Aside from the nearly continuous violence in the novel, there are many passages where Grendel and other characters reflect on life and reality. There is one memorable scene where a warrior manages to get into Grendel's lair but he is injured and weakened by the process of getting in. He then asks Grendel to kill him, so that he will have fulfilled his heroic duties. The discussion of what makes a hero worthy provides some insight into the culture that originally produced, \\"Beowulf\\" over a thousand years ago. Unfortunately for the hero, Grendel does not kill him and to add insult to injury, takes him back to Hrothgar's meadhall to live out his days.<br />There is also a strange encounter between a dragon and Grendel (this is a not in the original poem anywhere) where they discuss time, metaphysics and reality. The dragon is shown to be a quasi-divine in his knowledge and is almost omniscient. He struggles to impart any knowledge to Grendel as he finds it difficult to communicate at a level that Grendel could comprehend. <br />The main events of the poem, Beowulf's battles, have a comparatively minor part in the novel. In fact, only about the last 10-15 pages even include Beowulf in any way at all. Indeed, Beowulf is such a minor role that he is not even named. Only readers of the original tale will recognize him. <br />My overall impression of the novel is not favorable. It is excellent as far as exploring the psyche of a monster and what contributes to making a monster, a monster. Its philosophical speculations are vague and depressing. For those in search of a novel comparable in many ways to Frankenstein, this is probably one of your best bets. I would strongly recommend Seamus Heaney's translation of Beowulf for the causal reader, not interested in a scholarly accurate translation, who only wants to experience one of the first major pieces of English literature.	2002-05-15
US	49444977	R2E2S4SPQSYJ7B	0679740678	67210777	The Man in the High Castle	Books	5	10	11	N	N	What if Hitler won and what is reality?	Philip K. Dick writes a sort of strange science fiction that is speculative, philosophical and very interesting. His musings on the nature of reality are bizarre but that is his trade mark. I have previously read \\"Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?\\" and \\"The Divine Invasion\\" (both of which I have reviewed), but this is very different compared to them. There are certain elements in common; the focus is on ideas rather than characters, the ending seems to follow Samuel Delaney's recommendation, \\"Endings, to be useful, must be ambiguous,\\" but some parts of the plot seem weakly held together and the synopsis frequently given for it is misleading.  Dick himself once said that he wrote in the science fiction genre because, \\"there is more latitude in science fiction for the expression of pure ideas than other genres.\\" Dick's exploration of ideas on the fringes of philosophy and religion are mind-bending however this novel looks at how history could be different. <br />The setting of the novel is that Germany and Japan won World War 2 and that the United States is split between the two conquerors. While the basic \\"Germany wins...\\" is a major, if not dominant theme in the alternative history sub-genre, Dick's novel is probably the best. He sketches several different characters; a man who sells antique Americana to interested Japanese collectors, a science fiction writer, a Japanese diplomat and so on.<br />Dick's speculation on what Germany might have done after World War 2 is intriguing. Set in 1962, the Third Reich \\"purifies\\" Africa, begins space exploration and Hitler is closeted away somewhere in a sanitarium. Through the course of the novel, there is a power struggle for the leadership of the Reich, which is convincingly based on the way Nazi Germany conducted its internal politics. During the struggle, there is a meeting of Japanese government officials who go through the psychological profiles of each of the main contenders (the description of Göring was the most memorable); by having the Japanese discuss it instead of just listing the details in straight narration or some other way, the reader is drawn into a convincing political situation.<br />The science fiction writer mentioned above plays a small role in the novel and parallels Dick himself in some respects. I hesitate to reveal anymore for fear of ruining the novel. As several other insightful reviewers have pointed out, the alternative history setting is not really the main focus of the novel. Dick uses the setting, Taoism (specifically the concept of balance), and the I Ching to examine his favorite metaphysical question, \\"What is reality?\\" <br />One of the strangest things about the novel is the fact that Dick used the I Ching  (Book of Changes) to help him write it. In addition to this background role, the I Ching itself is frequently consulted by almost all of the characters of the novel at some point or another. For readers who do not know what it is, the I Ching is a major book in ancient Chinese religion. To employ it, the user must have a clear question in his mind and then flip a  series of coins or stalks to produce a pattern. The user than takes this pattern and looks it up in the I Ching; it offers 4-5 lines of vague advice.<br />One last comment: The ending makes you think. Definitely give it a few reads to understand.	2002-05-10
US	49444977	R3G4ES358RO1ZU	044036499X	213072500	NOT WANTED ON THE VO	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Noah's Flood; unconventional perspectives on an ancient tale	Findley set himself an ambitious task in writing this novel. He takes the Biblical story of Noah and the Ark and reinterprets it. This represents a new trend in late 20th century literature; the rewriting of traditional stories, often in the attempt to undermine the intended purpose of the story. Aside from this work, this idea can be seen in Gardner's \\"Grendel\\" (based upon the thousand year old English epic poem \\"Beowulf\\") and the \\"Politically Correct\\" series: Bedtime stories, Parables, and the Politically Correct Guide to the Bible. It is interesting to see how post-modernism is changing (if not corrupting) literature. Post-modernism asserts that there is no meta-narrative, no authoritative version of events, no absolute truth and so forth. Of course, it is almost immediately obvious that such a philosophy is riddled with contradiction (see \\"Relativism: Feet planted firmly in mid-air,\\" by Frank Beckwith and Gregory Koukl for more; I've also reviewed this book) and as such should not be taken as serious philosophy.<br />\\"Not wanted on the voyage\\" strikes me as a much better novel than Findley's \\"The Wars\\" (which I have reviewed), a tale about a Canadian soldier in World War 1. I would not say there is a substantive difference in terms of writing style, but I simply found the happenings of World War 1 uninteresting to read in a fictional setting. My main criticism of this novel is the pace; the first part is almost painfully slow. The reader has to wait about 60 pages to meet Yahweh (God, who is described an ancient man, strained with exhaustion) and then, another 140 pages for the Ark to be finished and the Flood to begin. I consider the Ark and the Flood to be the main events of the story, however it may be told, and those events should be the most prominent. Despite the pace, there are several things about the novel that I enjoyed.<br />The depiction of Yahweh (i.e. the God of Christianity/Judaism) is without a doubt theologically wrong in most respects, but as acharacter, Findley paints him well. Yahweh is shown to be exhausted, depressed and very human. When Yahweh arrives in Doctor Noyes' home (Findley substitutes Noyes for Noah), there is a sense that it is God's last refuge. Unfortunately, after this one meeting, Yahweh is not seen again.<br />The portrayal of the various supernatural characters is both amusing and fresh. Lucifer is depicted as the woman Lucy who marries one of Noyes sons and boards the ark. One of my favorite passages from the novel reveals Lucy as the the Dissenter of Heaven, the one who disturbed the peace:<br />\\"A long time ago,\\" she said; \\"in a place I have almost forgotten - I heard a rumour of another world. With all my heart - because I could not abide the place I was in - I wanted to see that world. I wanted to go there and to be there and to live there. Where I was born - the trees were always in the sun... The merciless light. It never rained - though we never lacked for water. Always fair weather! Dull. I wanted difference. And I wondered - does it rain there? Are there clouds, perhaps, and there shade in that other world? I wanted somewhere to stand, you see, that would give me a view of deserts and of snow. I wanted that desperately. I wanted, too, someone I could argue with. Someone - just once - with whom I could disagree.... Who say that dry is wet - and black is white? and if I were to say; `I am not I - but whoever I wish to be.'\\" (page 282)<br />This quote is one of the more insightful observations that Findley makes in the novel (i.e. besides such ideas as religion when mixed with power, tends to corrupt). It is ironic that someone would desire foul weather, dissent and trouble instead of bliss.<br /> The Archangel Michael is Michael Archangelis who might be best described as a holy warrior. In the novel, Michael is the well-armed and experienced protector of Yahweh who never sleeps and the brother of the fallen Lucifer. Oddly enough, demons are among the \\"animals\\" included in theark. Demons are described in the novel as fiery, roughly dog-sized animals that are playful. I somehow found this bizarre for I tend to consider such beings immaterial, similar to angels. There are also strange beings called Faeries which are some sort of small, bright beings. Nothing is really said about them, other than the fact that they are frightened easily and live in the forest.<br />Noyes' family is a mixed bunch; some loyal to the father and some to the mother. They are hardly saints, yet they could not really be called fully corrupt either. Noah (or Doctor Noyes) is an oppressive father whose passion for God leads him to be a negligent husband and father; further, there are hints that he is some sort of scientist (there is mention made of him experimenting with animals and attempting alchemy). This realistic showing of family life is one of the endearing qualities of the novel. On the other hand, the fact that all the animals can talk is quite strange. Mrs. Noyes cat, Mottyl, has quite a role throughout the novel and one wonders why this is the case. Is there some sort of subtle symbolism intended here or is it simply a device to let the reader know what the animals think about the Ark, the Flood, and the people aboard it?<br />A word of warning to some readers that there is a rather violent sex scene in the novel, it lasts about two pages and some readers may want to skip this section.	2002-05-03
US	49444977	R3P0CCVIH0CHDZ	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Military SF: Social change, good use of time dililiation	I first heard about this novel as a reaction to Heinlein's \\"Starship Troopers\\" (see my review). This novel, along with Heinlein's, compromise definitive military SF. Haldeman was inspired by his experience in the Vietnam War which is reflected in the novel (e.g. large number of casaulies, the meaningless of combat etc). The enemy is ambiguous and no one is really sure why they're fighting the war. Like Heinlein's novel, the main \\"weapon\\" is a special space suit that provides the soldiers with air and heat and provides them with a mechanical strength.<br />The most interesting part of the novel is time dilation. According to Einstein's theories of relativity, the closer one gets to moving at the speed of light, the slower time progresses. Haldeman makes excellent use of this device. The protagonist, William Mandella, is originally drafted into UNEF (United Nations Elite Force) in 1997 and he doesn't finally leave military life until 3143 AD. His first campaign lasts a little under a year \\"subjective time\\" (the slowed down time experienced while traveling near the speed of light), whereas it is 2023 real time. During that time, Earth's economy had been almost completely converted to the war effort and overpopulation was a major problem.<br />He then goes back on active duty; there is nothing on Earth of interest to him. He is slowly promoted up the ranks and starts to face the problems of command. After this campaign, he returns to find that Earth's currencies have been abolished. The only remaining \\"currency\\" is ration cards that limit how many calories worth of food that a person can consume. There is widespread gang violence and almost everybody carries hand guns for self-defence. Fortunately, the UNEF soldiers' pay accumulates compound interest, while on R&R during the war, Mandella discovers that his back pay is about $900 million. Unfortunately, he recovers on \\"Heaven\\" a paradise world for UNEF personnel, all of whom have centuries of pay to spend; this leads topredictably high inflation.<br />The most interesting development is that homosexuality is encouraged in the late 21st century as a measure to control population growth (too bad Haldeman doesn't mention what Christians, Muslims, or Jews of the future era think about it. On his last campaign (which involves a 600 year \\"real time\\" round trip), Mandella's heterosexuality becomes a problem. His Temporal Orientation Officer told him that, \\"[o]nly emotionally stable people are drafted into UNEF. I know this is hard for you to accept but heterosexuality is considered an emotional dysfunction. Relatively easy to cure.\\" (page 180) It is ironic that up until 1973, the American Psychiatric Association considered homosexuality a disorder and only intense homosexual activism removed it from their list of disorders.<br />Finally, after his last battle with the Taurans (an insect like alien race), he returns to Earth. Arriving home in the 32nd century, he is told that peace was made with the Taurans about 200 years ago. The war is over. Earth and several colonies are populated by clones that are controlled by one single consciousness; it turns out that the aliens were like this and that they couldn't understand a race of individuals. The whole war had been a misunderstanding that was made worse by military leaders who were itching for a war.<br />While I disagree with the ideas here, I think Haldeman has shown what can be done in SF. Speculation about society (e.g. how far will we go to control population?) is one of the things that makes science fiction uniquely valuable as literature and allows us to creatively look at our selves. <br />P.S. The Science Fiction channel is supposed to be doing a 4-hour miniseries based on it sometime in 2002-2003; I wonder how it will turn it.	2002-04-30
US	49444977	R2RLVO1PH9I6LA	0812509250	4976316	Xenocide: Volume Three of the Ender Quintet	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Understanding the Other, philosophy; typical Card	The major theme of this novel, as well as Card's previous work is concerned with understanding the Other (i.e. in this case, different alien races). The characters struggle mightily with the fact that there are several alien races that may be capable of destroying mankind. The idea that makes Card's works different is that individual people, not even Government, decide if the other species should be destroyed. There is strife; not all of the people agree on what action should be taken.<br />My problem with the novel is that there are two streams of narrative that do not fit together until about midway through the novel. One of the streams of narrative involves the characters from &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; while the other involves the Chinese on a planet called the Path. The Path has a strange religious tradition that fuses different Chinese religions (e.g. Taoism, folk religion etc...) with a caste system. The caste system consists of the god-spoken (those who hear/feel the voice of the Gods) and the vast majority of the population who do not. The explanation of this was quite inventive, but I don't want to give away all the details.<br />There is also a strange current of philosophy combined with highly speculative philosophy. I am inclined to view any such combination with skepticism, yet Card's presentation of it was decent. The discussion of free will was somewhat frustrating, but I suppose one must be grateful that these sorts of topics are present. Too much science fiction has no intellectual content; merely action and flashy aliens. <br />Also, Card does a very good job at avoiding a trap that plagues the science fiction genre, namely characterization. Building on what he wrote in &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; Card paints an portrait of a family that it is deeply divided and, ripped by rivalries. Card's characterization of one family made &quot;Speaker of the Dead&quot; stand out. As Card himself said in his introduction to &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; the idea of a family is rarely portrayed in science fiction; it is all to often a lone adventurer, cut off from all family connections. This fact makes Card's work all the more plausible. Simply having plausible science (his writing is somewhat lacking in that respect) alone is not enough to make a story believable and enjoyable; the reader has to be able to care about and, to some extent, get involved with the different characters.<br />Comparing this novel to the previous ones, (I have reviewed both, &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; and, &quot;Speaker for the Dead&quot;), I think that &quot;Speaker for the Dead,&quot; is the best novel in the series. Granted, I have yet to read, &quot;Children of the Mind,&quot; which concludes the original Ender Saga. I have also not read the two novels that take place in the same time period as &quot;Ender's Game,&quot; namely, &quot;Ender's Shadow&quot; and &quot;Shadow of the Hegemon.&quot;	2002-04-19
US	49444977	R3HAU05RAV50W9	0631189475	15397338	A Life of John Calvin: A Study in the Shaping of Western Culture	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Balanced detailed biography of a major Christian reformer	When people think of the Reformation, two people often come to mind. The first is generally Martin Luther and the second is often John Calvin. Alister McGrath does a service both to historians and Christians; his balanced scholarship sets new standards for biographical writing. McGrath discusses Calvin's life, his academic experience, and his theology. McGrath also includes chapters on Calvin's turbulent relationship with the city of Geneva and properly shows that the man and the city had a significant influence on each other.<br />One of the best parts of this book is that McGrath puts Calvin in to proper historical context by discussing both France and the dominant intellectual trends therein and discussing the city with which Calvin would become forever associated with, Geneva. All throughout the work, McGrath will invite the reader to consider the problems encountered by the Calvin historian; where there is little documentation, McGrath is not afraid to tell the reader. Though McGrath has a clear perspective on who Calvin was and his contribution to history, he acknowledges the contributions of different historians and modifies his position when necessary. This book is not all intellectual and theological history; McGrath explains the social and political significance of heresy and discusses which classes of people tended to adopt Calvinism and why. <br />Some of the interesting observations that McGrath makes throughout the work:<br />- Calvin never opposed Copernicus' theory of heliocentrism; there is nothing to suggest that in, \\"The Institutes of the Christian Religion,\\" (Calvin's main work of theology) or any of his other works. Indeed the first mention that Calvin was critical of Copernicus was in a 19th century biography of Calvin, written by the Anglican Dean od Canterbury, Frederick William Farrar (1831-1903)<br />- Calvin's relationship to Calvinism; one of the interesting problems in history is to examine the relation between leaders and the movementsthat they establish. If one looks at John Calvin's theology, one finds that the doctrine of predestination has quite a minor role. It was only later theologians working in what may be called the \\"Reformed\\" or the \\"Calvinist\\" tradition that put such an emphasis on the doctrine of predestination, election etc...<br />- Calvin's relationship to the emergence of modern capitalism; it has become a popular position among some historians to exaggerate the role of Calvin in the development of modern capitalism. McGrath notes that Calvin's real contribution was more so creating a religious outlook that removed restraints on capitalism (e.g. Calvin did not consider lending money at interest to be immoral) and his positive emphasis of the value of work, especially physical labour.<br />- There was analysis of the way Calvinism favored being involved in the world, rather than withdrawing. The only drawback to this approach is that sometimes the social practices of Calvinism would gradually lose their religious core and become secularized. One of the examples of this is how the doctrine of predestination is easily degraded into a vague notion of fate, destiny or in American history, \\"manifest destiny.\\"<br />There were two chapters on Calvin's most important work of theology, \\"The Institutes of the Christian Religion.\\" I am interested in knowing something of the history of theology but I am not dedicated enough to read through all of the Institutes. McGrath, of course, advises the reader to do this but nonetheless he provides a useful overview of the book.<br />The last few chapters discuss the movement known as Calvinism and its impact on work, the development of capitalism and several other issues. These last few chapters are of particular value because they remind you that theology has a major influence in real life. <br />I recommend this book for people that wish to understand the second generation of the Reformation following Martin Luther; Calvinism was an international movement of considerable importance and it continues to be relevant today. The book includes numerous black and white prints of Calvin, Francois I, a map of Paris and other relevant pictures. There is a glossary of terms and an index for easy reference.	2002-04-05
US	49444977	RYOC5VNU345QB	0345438353	703326855	A Case of Conscience (Del Rey Impact)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Thoughtful treatment of Christianity and science fiction	This is one of the most thought provoking SF novels I have read (particularly the ending). On occasion, I finish a novel in such a way that makes me close the novel and just think about it for a while. Walter Miller's \\"A Canticle for Leibowitz,\\" is the only other novel I have read that is like it in all the science fiction I have read. It seems science fiction authors find it difficult to deal with religion (especially Christianity) in a serious fashion. There is frequent repetition of a pathetic caricature of Christians as irrational fideists whereas the scientist is generally depicted as a noble person who pursues truth throughout the science fiction genre. Blish was himself an agnostic.<br />The novel features humanity's first contact with alien race which humanity calls the \\"Lithians.\\" The aliens have no native religion to speak of, their society is completely stable and they are moral, to the point of perfection. A committee sent by the United Nations (UN) to evaluate how Earth should view this new world. Technologically and scientifically, the Lithians are ahead of Earth in some areas and vice versa. It is coincidence that humanity has invented nuclear weapons and an efficient way to travel across interstellar distances.<br />The team sent to evaluate Lithia is composed of a chemist, a physicist, another person, and a Jesuit biologist called Ruiz-Sanchez. The team has some friction but it is still required to reach a decision; its recommendation to the UN will determine the state of future relations between Earth and Lithia. Opinion is divided; one wants to open relations and start learning from the Lithian's impressive social strucutre. Another wishes to make Lithia into a planet-wide nuclear weapons factory. Ruiz-Sanchez wants to quarantine it; cut if off from all future contact with man.<br />As the team is about to leave, one of the Lithians gives Ruiz-Sanchez a young Lithian in an artificial womb. The alien has his name, Egtverchi, encoded into his DNA somehow. He survives the journey back to Earth and starts to grow up with no contact with his native world. He gains UN citizenship and becomes something of a celebrity. Then, Egtverchi becomes a media personality of sorts who stirs up social dissent among the insane and other social rejects. One interesting aspect of the society on Earth in 2050 is that almost everybody lives in underground cities. This is set up as a consequence to the nuclear arms race; countries slowly moved their entire populace under ground until a \\"Shelter economy\\" is created. This fear of nuclear destruction and speculation about an underground society somewhat dates the novel but it is otherwise difficult to see that the novel was in fact written in 1959. There are some stylistic anachronisms (e.g. Blish uses the term \\"Earthmen\\" for the humans who visit Lithia and the term \\"rocket\\" is used for space ships) but, like Heinlein's \\"Starship Troopers\\" (this novel, which I have also reviewed, aged better) it has aged well.<br />Ruiz-Sanchez's inner struggle is well written conflict but the nature of the conflict is somewhat ambiguous. He regards the morally perfect, unbelieving Lithians as elaborate creations of the Adversary (Blish's use of this term instead of \\"Devil\\" or \\"Satan\\" somehow makes the whole concept more plausible, in my view) to confuse man. Ruiz-Sanchez's audience with Pope has some of the better dialogue and conflict in the novel; it is unfortunately short.<br />There are a few flaws in the novel that detract from it. First, the story was initially meant as a novella. The section of the novel that takes place in Lithia was initially its own story and then Blish decided to improve on it. This leaves the novel with an awkward sort of transition. The other members of the original Lithia commission are not developed in any meaningful way; their role seems relegated solely to being foils for Ruiz-Sanchez. The \\"scientific\\" appendix on Lithia can only be described as superfluous; no use ofmade of this \\"data.\\" It is world building for the sake of world building; I would advise any reader to finish the main text of the novel and then just stop.<br />This novel is a valuable contribution to the genre due to its interesting exploration of religion. It seems to be a theme that the most easily deployed form of religion in SF is Roman Catholicism; an interesting trend, I think.	2002-04-04
US	49444977	R5K40C8TJMB25	0812580354	77230724	Calculating God	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Plausible science, but weak philosophy	Sawyer is one of the better-known Canadian science fiction authors of all time. In this novel, Sawyer deals with themes that science fiction is often reluctant to deal with; religion (most precisely theism or deism), evolution and a sort of atheism/secular humanism. What makes this treatment unique, as far as I know the genre, is that Sawyer does not caricature those who believe in God (in this case, two alien races) as foolish, superstitious etc... I think it would be fair to say that naturalism (as articulated by the novel's protagonist, a secular humanist paleontologist) and deism are given a fair treatment.<br />I first heard about this book through word of mouth as an SF novel that deals with religion. However, it is somewhat misleading (I do not want say deceptive) in claiming the aliens believe in God. Generally, when people use the term \\"God\\" what they have in mind is theism (broadly speaking, the eternal, immaterial being who created the universe, performs miracles, that is all good, all knowing, all powerful etc..), the novel initially seems to take this approach, and then it gets strange.<br />The alien character (the theist proponent), Hollus, argues with Tom Jericho, that two arguments prove the existence of God. The two arguments that Hollus uses are the design (specifically, the fine-tuning concept) argument and the cosmological argument (although this is less prominent). I appreciate Sawyer's direct line of attack in his presentation. One of the first conversations between Hollus and Jericho (this follows a discussion of which could only be described as miracles or nearly unbelievable coincidence):<br />\\"'One reason is obvious,' said Hollus.... 'It could be that way because God wished it to be so.'<br />For some reason, I was surprised to hear the alien talking like that. Most of the scientists I know are either atheists or keep their religion to themselves - and Hollus had indeed said he was a scientist.\\"<br />[Hollus and Jericho argue a bit; Hollusconsiders talking to another paleontologist]<br />'I know from your television that there is much ambivalence about God in this part of your planet, at least among the general public, but I am surprised to hear that someone in your position is not personally convinced of the existence of the creator.\\"<br />'We tend to consider religion a personal matter,\\" I said gently. 'The very nature of faith is that one cannot be factually sure about it.'<br />'I do not speak of matters of faith,' said Hollus... 'Rather, I speak of verifiable scientific fact. That we live in a created universe is apparent to anyone with sufficient intelligence and information.'<br />I wasn't really offended, but I was [was is italicized in the text] surprised; previously, I'd only heard similar comments from so-called creation scientists.\\" (Pages 17-18)<br />What I really like about this passage is the irony of it. I can almost picture Jericho as the stereotypical, smug scientist who has to gently correct the poor deluded religious person. Only in this circumstance, the situation is reversed. The alien (who believes in theism) finds it incredible that an educated scientist like Jericho does NOT believe in God; surely, he thinks, that problem is only limited to the ignorant masses. On a related note, amidst the extensive discussions of intelligent design, there is mention Michael Behe's excellent book, \\"Darwin's Black Box: The biochemical challenge to evolution.\\"<br />However, the aliens do not exactly believe in theism as defined above. Hollus believes in a sort of oscillating universe (a defunct model that has thoroughly refuted by Big Bang cosmology, my view) which means that a universe started, expanded, then contracted into nothing and then re-started (one of the numerous problems with the model is that there is no known way to restart the process and it simply tries to dodge the question of the universe started by positing an infinite regression). In Universe 1, there was a great being ofsome sort that survived the end of Universe 1 and then managed to control the emergence of Universe 2 (the present one) such that at least three intelligent races were created. The Wreeds (the other alien race, who do not develop mathematics but are excellent at solving ethical dilemmas) say:<br />\\"'Humans are unique in believing in divine omnipotence and omniscience,' said T'kna... `Just as the fallacy of a perfect God hampered your theology, so the fallacy of a perfect vacuum hampered your cosmology... There are no perfect vacuums; there is no perfect God.'\\" (page 125)<br />The Wreeds also blend quantum mechanics with their belief in God, such that things only exist if God observes them (apparently this causes the waveform to collapse). <br />Philosophically, there is a definite lack of argument to show that theism (esp. omnipotence and omniscience) is a \\"fallacy\\"; it is an empty assertion. Scientifically, I think the oscillation model is very weak and plagued by numerous problems.<br />In terms of the non-philosophical elements of the novel, it strikes me as quite plausible. The Forhilnors (the spider like race of which Hollus is a member) are only about a century ahead of humanity, use space ships that travel just below the speed of light and still suffer from cancer. Much of the biology speculation about similarities and differences between humanity, the Wreeds and the Forhilnors is plausible.<br />As a literary work, the themes of the book are made personal by the personal struggle of Tom Jericho who wrestles with great doubts in his faith in evolution and secular humanism. There is a considerable suspense at the end of the novel as Sawyer's poorly developed subplot about Christian terrorists is resolved. The ending is somewhat similar to Clarke's, \\"2001: A Space Odyssey.\\"<br />This is one of the better works of science fiction to deal with the complex issue of religion. Kudos to Mr. Sawyer!	2002-03-29
US	49444977	R1ZTN4WC1FDGWU	0553573918	765635327	The Icarus Hunt	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Decent adventure SF	This novel is basically a chase through the stars. However, the construction of the aliens and some of the technology of the novel make it interesting. A race called the Patth has a near monopoly on all interstellar shipping because they managed to create a propulsion system that is significantly faster than anything anybody else has. All the other races have had to scramble for small or illegal contracts to survive. The novel opens with the main character, Jordan McKell, being hired to pilot a starship.<br />The novel is something of a mystery as well. The mystery concerns the fate of the employer of McKell and the rest of the crew and what exactly they have been hired to convey to Earth. Tension gradually builds as McKell is questioned by authorities on route to the Icarus and then he meets several other strangers who will be the crew of the ship. They all have different histories that McKell doesn't know anything about; trust and suspicion run throughout the story.<br />Some of the more interesting ideas in the story are that monopolies, trade and the like will continue in much the same form in the future as they do in the present. There are even several criminal organizations in the novel, which are involved, in typical Mafia like actions such as drug smuggling and extortion. So much of SF assumes a Star Trek like universe where there is no shortages of food or anything else and everybody has everything provided for them. This aspect of realism made the novel more believable. Usually, hard science fiction focuses on predicting future technology or science (and giving plausible explanations for them), whereas this novel simply had technology as part of the background with mystery and characters taking the spot light. The novel does a have a Star Wars (Zahn has written several Star Wars novels) feel to it and this may turn off some readers.<br />The different aliens in the story are somewhat inventive. McKell's partner Ixil has two \\"ferrets\\" (originally used as hunting aids in his race's ancient history) that can obey simple orders, plug into Ixil's nervous system and provide him with all the information they gather. One of the alien races finds zero gravity environments very comfortable and they are in high demand to be space walkers (i.e. go outside space ships and perform repairs).<br />I thought the ending was somewhat unexpected; there is a sudden revelation about McKell and his mechanic-business partner Ixil that seems too easy but I doubt there would be a better way to resolve the plot. I do not want to reveal the ending but it seemed so clich&eacute;d; that said it was no predictable, in my view.<br />I gave the novel three stars not for any major error; I am not inclined to regard a straight adventure story like this as literature. The exploration of any significant theme seemed to be lacking as well. Philip K. Dick once said, \\"Science fiction is a literature of ideas,\\" and that is lacking in this novel. It is fun to read yet it is nowhere near as trashy as Harlequin romances or similar fiction.nting aids in his race's ancient history) that can obey simple orders, plug into Ixil's nervous system and provide him with all the information they gather. One of the alien races finds zero gravity environments very comfortable and they are in high demand to be space walkers (i.e. go outside space ships and perform repairs).<br />I thought the ending was somewhat unexpected; there is a sudden revelation about McKell and his mechanic-business partner Ixil that seems too easy but I doubt there would be a better way to resolve the plot. I do not want to reveal the ending but it seemed so clichéd; that said it was no predictable, in my view. <br />I gave the novel three stars not for any major error; I am not inclined to regard a straight adventure story like this as literature. The exploration of any significant theme seemed to be lacking as well. Philip K. Dick once said, \\"Science fiction is a literature of ideas,\\" and that is lacking in this novel. It is fun to read yet it is nowhere near as trashy as Harlequin romances or similar fiction.	2002-03-27
US	49444977	R28U2V9ARV3N0B	0345447980	134789254	Planet of the Apes	Books	4	3	3	N	N	French SF: Before the films, there was the novel	I must confess I read the novel after seeing both the films (the 1968 and 2001 versions). The differences between the film and the novel are typical. The novel has more interesting speculation and less action. Of the two films, the 1968 film is the better adaptation. The 2001 adaptation is at best \\"loosely\\" based on the novel; indeed there are only a few concepts in common and almost none of the plot. The 2001 film is more of a simple action movie with few of the ideas that make the novel so appealing.<br />As the back summary claims, the climax does indeed rival that of the 1968 film but it was the same ending as the 2001 film, more or less. I enjoyed the taste of irony that Boulle created with his ending whereas the 2001 film ending was simply confusing.<br />The theme of the book is whether humanity represents the pinnacle of evolution and the way humans treat animals. By reversing roles on the protagonist, the formerly civilized man is considered to be a \\"mere animal\\" by the apes who have a technological civilization equal to that of Earth, the reader is forced to consider the idea that maybe humanity is not the highest form of life. One of the best scenes of the novel is where the protagonist and one of his ape friends tour a medical testing facility where humans are used as the instrument of medical research in much the same way humanity uses apes and other animals for research on Earth. Indeed, providing such fresh perspectives to age-old problems (in this case, animal rights) is one of the things science fiction can accomplish when it is top form.<br />The discussions of evolution (macro-evolution is a given in the novel) in the book are fascinating; some of the more open-minded apes start to think that perhaps ape civilization originally emerged from an antecedent human civilization. The speculation that human-ape civilization may cycle over long periods of time provides a foundation for the conclusion of the novel. The 2001 film has the same ending but no supporting explanation, thus making it incomprehensible. The fallen nature of man is highlighted by the apparent pacifist nature of ape society; in their past they had wars but by the time of the novel war was gone and violence almost unheard of, contrasting the behavior of the humans.<br />This is one of the few non-English science fiction novels I have read. I have read some Verne but 19th fiction is a whole different style. Lest there be any confusion, this edition is translated into English. I wonder what other sorts of French, German or other cultures have produced science fiction that is comparable to this (i.e. in exploring remarkable themes in the context of well paced plot)?supporting explanation, thus making it incomprehensible. The fallen nature of man is highlighted by the apparent pacifist nature of ape society; in their past they had wars but by the time of the novel war was gone and violence almost unheard of, contrasting the behavior of the humans.<br />This is one of the few non-English science fiction novels I have read. I have read some Verne but 19th fiction is a whole different style. Lest there be any confusion, this edition is translated into English. I wonder what other sorts of French, German or other cultures have produced science fiction that is comparable to this (i.e. in exploring remarkable themes in the context of well paced plot)?	2002-03-26
US	49444977	ROUJZ3FVQ42WF	0441783589	242880671	Starship Troopers	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Good military SF with interesting ethics and politics	I've heard so much about Robert Heinlein that it was time I read one of his novels. While \\"Stranger in a strange land,\\" is probably his most famous, I chanced across \\"Starship Troopers,\\" first, so that is what I'm reviewing.<br />The novel takes place centuries in the future when humanity is engaged in a war with insect alien race. However, the action is only one, relatively unimportant aspect of the novel. Initially, when the protagonist joins the military it is during peace. Only retired soldiers can vote in elections and hold public office. The theory behind this is that if political rights cost you something and if they require you to risk your life, you are more likely to act responsibly with that freedom.<br />This idea, in of itself, is very interesting and the novel makes a reasonably good case for it. Albeit, it is primarily argued for on pragmatic grounds (i.e. this system works and is stable), it is still interesting to find such material in a novel originally marketed to young boys in 1959. It is unfortunate that the novel was marketed to the \\"juvenile\\" market for the ideas definitely make it an adult novel.<br />In addition, there is much ethical musing about the need for violence, the causes of war and the soldier's life. Much of these conversations take place while the protagonist takes a compulsory course called, \\"History and Moral Philosophy.\\"<br />One of my favorite lines from this section is this:<br />\\"One girl told him bluntly: 'My mother says that violence never settles anything.\\"<br />'So?' Mr Dubois looked at her bleakly. 'I'm sure the city fathers of Carthage would be glad to know that. Why doesn't you mother tell them? Or why don't you?.... 'Violence, naked force, has settled more issues in history than has any other factor, the contrary opinion is wishful thinking at its worst.'\\" (pages 25-26)<br />The philosophy of Mr. Dubois is a little odd; it is a mix of survivalism and pragmatism. The presentation of the ideas is effective but I think a thoughtful philosophical analysis will leave many holes in it. It seems that a harsh regime wanted some sort of justification for its actions and that is where the philosophy came from.<br />Of course, there is also the very realistic depiction of military life. This includes basic military training, combat experiences, the relationship between officers and soldiers, and rank. Heinlein even has some of the soldiers being flogged or court martialed for dis obedience. Heinlein describes this all in gritty detail and it is evident that he does not hold to the view that war is glorious etc...<br />That said, I have read the Joe Haldeman wrote his \\"The Forever War,\\" in reply to Heinlein's novel. If I remember correctly, Heinlein was in the military during the 1930's while Haldeman was involved in the Vietnam War. I do not know the nature of Haldeman's reaction to Heinlein, but I have, \\"The Forever War,\\" on my to-read list. I'm sure I will get around to it eventually.<br />I have not seen the 1997 film adaptation, but I am skeptical that it will capture the _ideas_ that made the novel so interesting.a thoughtful philosophical analysis will leave many holes in it. It seems that a harsh regime wanted some sort of justification for its actions and that is where the philosophy came from. <br />Of course, there is also the very realistic depiction of military life. This includes basic military training, combat experiences, the relationship between officers and soldiers, and rank. Heinlein even has some of the soldiers being flogged or court martialed for dis obedience. Heinlein describes this all in gritty detail and it is evident that he does not hold to the view that war is glorious etc...<br />That said, I have read the Joe Haldeman wrote his \\"The Forever War,\\" in reply to Heinlein's novel. If I remember correctly, Heinlein was in the military during the 1930's while Haldeman was involved in the Vietnam War. I do not know the nature of Haldeman's reaction to Heinlein, but I have, \\"The Forever War,\\" on my to-read list. I'm sure I will get around to it eventually.<br />I have not seen the 1997 film adaptation, but I am skeptical that it will capture the _ideas_ that made the novel so interesting.	2002-03-17
US	49444977	R2NOSS6T8P34AK	0451457994	379678595	2001: a Space Odyssey	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Ah! The films makes sense!	I saw Kubrick's film (1968) several years ago and I thought it was simply too ambiguous to understand or appreciate. However, the novel clarified things greatly.<br />Granted that some of Clarke's ideas have been falsified (e.g. in the novel, the Chinese visit the Moon three times by 2001, over 30 nations have nuclear weapons, a permanent base is established on the Moon and the Soviet Union still exists), the novel still remains remarkably plausible. Clarke thought that the space race of the 1960's would continue at the same feverish pace throughout the late 20th century, alas, he was wrong. It is true that the International Space Station is due to completed soon, there have been no further manned ventures to the Moon. Clarke is the typical writer of Golden Age science fiction in that respect.<br />The description of Discovery (the space ship of the novel) is entirely realistic with its limited food reserves, sublight speeds, hibernation and A.I. computer that controls the ship. The computer that runs the ship, HAL 9000, was well executed in the novel and the sudden betrayal of the computer is explained much better than in the film...<Clarke explains in the introduction that was completely coincidental and that HAL stands for Heuristically ALgorithmic computer, it is nonetheless amusing to compare HAL to Big Blue and the general suspicion that many people seem to have that big corporations are evil. That said, the fall of HAL is beautifully explained in the novel and compared to the film, which if I remember correctly, simply has HAL suddenly attacking with no explanation.<br />My overall impression in comparing to the novel to the...It strove to evoke wonder but it failed because it was simply too mysterious. The ending makes much more sense; it is amazing how much difference narration makes. There does seem to be a theme in Clarke's works of humanity maturing and then growing into something completely different (e.g. see Clarke's \\"Childhood's End\\"). In both works,humanity, under the guidance of aliens, transitions into immaterial existence and fondly regards it time on Earth as an adult looks back on his childhood.<br />However, the ending in the novel drags somewhat due to the lack of dialogue. Clarke has obviously done some research into astronomy for he describes stars, and other astronomical phenomena with great accuracy. Yet, it feels like it is degrading into mysticism laced with astronomy. <br />It is an interesting novel and it is a good treatment of a perennial SF theme; first contact with aliens. The aliens of the novel are loosely described as paternal as one of the most memorable passages of the novel says, \\"And because, in all the galaxy, they had found nothing more precious than Mind, they encouraged its dawning everywhere. They became farmers of the stars; they sowed, and sometimes they reaped.\\" (pages 243-244)<br />Given a choice between a grand, ambiguous film and comprehensible novel, the choice is clear.	2002-03-14
US	49444977	R1W96HQD8Z7KNO	0812505042	691093854	The Time Machine	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Classic work of science fiction from the 1890's	Anybody that wishes to get a balanced understanding of the science fiction genre ought to read its classics. This would include H.G Wells and Jules Verne at the very least. I have read (and alas not reviewed) Vernes \\"20000 Leagues under the Sea\\" and, \\"Journey to the Center of the Earth.\\" I have not read Wells other famous science fiction novel, \\"The War of the Worlds.\\"<br />It is unfortunate that the novel is so short (about 100 pages) because it has a very interesting premise. The plausibility of the time machine suffers somewhat due to the vague description of the machine itself and no hint at how it might work. Properly speaking, the novel is not hard science fiction (heavily technology or science oriented). Rather, Wells uses the plot device of time travel to make a social/political point.<br />The Time Traveler (one of my biggest problems with the novel is that the protagonist's name is never given) wishes to travel to the future to see what it might be like. He travels roughly to the year 800,000 AD... What he finds is a strange fulfillment of the Victorian ideal of Progress. The Traveler tries to figure out different theories about what happened; the people seem primitive and London is gone (it has changed into a forest). Wells, through the Traveler, theorizes that the people he sees (the Eloi) were the rich of the world that had made their world so comfortable that there were no challenges to keep them active and they soon fell into a sort of pseudo-paradise. Meanwhile, the Morlocks (those who live under the ground) were thought to the workers who made the paradise of the Eloi possible in the past. However, with the passage of time, the Morlocks became more powerful and started to view the Eloi as prey.<br />The end of the novel is poor, in my view. The Traveler steps into one of the ancient buildings nearby looking for his Time Machine, which went missing shortly after his arrival in the future. After a brief struggle with the Morlocks, he travels millions of years in the future and sees that man has ceased to exist and witnesses what he thinks to be the end of time. Finally, he returns to the 19th century and tells his friends about his adeventures<br />The novel, by modern standards, is much too short and there is not enough dialogue (this is partially due to the format of the story: The time traveler is telling what happened to him to a group of acquaintances). It is nonetheless one of the early attempts at what is now called science fiction and its brevity makes its antiquated style easily bearable.millions of years in the future and sees that man has ceased to exist and witnesses what he thinks to be the end of time. Finally, he returns to the 19th century and tells his friends about his adeventures<br />The novel, by modern standards, is much too short and there is not enough dialogue (this is partially due to the format of the story: The time traveler is telling what happened to him to a group of acquaintances). It is nonetheless one of the early attempts at what is now called science fiction and its brevity makes its antiquated style easily bearable.	2002-03-12
US	49444977	R3QL8R6YB6BKQJ	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Best of the Ender series	Though this is only the second novel I have read in the Ender series by Orson Scott Card, I think it is probably the best.<br />While reading \\"Ender's Game\\" will clarify parts of this novel, it is not strictly necessary to understand it. This novel takes place three thousand years after the events of \\"Ender's Game\\" by which time humanity has colonized dozens of planets (confederated as the \\"Hundred Worlds\\") and there has been no contact with an alien species since Ender destroyed the buggers (an insect like alien race) thousands of years ago... Until Lustitania is discovered.<br />A new colony is established on Lusitania to study a new race called, informally, the \\"piggies.\\" The colonists begin to study the alien race but this time humanity is determined to do it right, to prevent another war. So, strict rules are set up for the alien anthropologists (xenologers) to follow. Everything goes reasonably well for several years until a discovery is made and the piggies kill one of the xenologers and plant a tree in him, later the same man's son is ritually killed in the same way.<br />The major theme of the novel is how people deal with the \\"foreigner\\"; violence, wonder, awe? Science fiction is particularly well equipped, as a genre, to explore themes like this because it can use exaggerated or strange examples (i.e. aliens instead of Russians or some other Earth nationality). <br />Other interesting things in the novel include the fact that the Roman Catholic Church still continues to exist and the Speaker of the Dead has become something of a humanistic religion that is about truly understanding a dead person and then speaking their death truthfully, no more and no less. The main character, Ender, presents an interesting personality; he is at once the man who destroyed an entire alien species and he is also the only person who have really understood them and made it possible for the rest of humanity to understood. Such a complicated, tragic figure is intriguing. <br />Though I haven't read the rest of the Ender series (Xenocide, Children of the Mind, Ender's Shadow etc...), I think this will probably be the best one for the way in which it explored the age old idea; how do you deal with someone that appears to be different but who may in fact be similar to you?<br />I plan to read, \\"Xenocide,\\" and, \\"Children of the Mind,\\" soon. Please see my review of, \\"Ender's Game.\\"	2002-02-23
US	49444977	R3CN5WZ7LI4XTX	0671026267	494721430	Pathways (Star Trek: Voyager)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Interesting background stories but weak plot	This novel by one of the producers (note: Taylor left the series at some point, but she came up with it with some other people) is about the &quot;Pathways&quot; that took the crew of Voyager to that ship. The structure of the book, except for the very beginning and the very end, is a short chapter (10-15 pages) of actual plot followed by a long chapter (35-70 pages) where a character tells his life story.<br />The main plot of the novel is that the command crew of Voyager has been captured and is being held as prisoner. Captain Janeway and the Doctor are the only members of the crew that managed to escape capture. <br />The breakdown of the novel is obvious, approximately 16% (82 pages) of the 501 total pages is spent on discussing the crew's activities in the POW camp and their attempts to escape. I think a better format for the stories would be to design it as a series of the crew member's personal logs or perhaps simply as a series of short-stories/novellas in anthology form.<br />At this point, I will discuss some of the stories. If you want to avoid having the story spoiled, stop reading here.<br />I think the most interesting parts of the novel were the explanation for why Chakotay joined the Maquis, why Tom Paris was in a prisoner's colony and the back history to the less colourful characters; Ensign Kim and Lieutenant Tuvok (I know he is promoted later) are the simple Starfleet people but even here there are some interesting things. Apparently, Kim actually had to apply twice to get into Starfleet Academy and Tuvok originally wanted to become monk rather than enter Starfleet.<br />It has been years since I read a Trek, but I probably read about two dozen (all the series-based ones, excluding Enterprise) novels and this is fairly good. Unfortunately, a novel like this would only appeal to fans. I may also read Taylor's novel, &quot;Mosiac,&quot; the background story of Captain Janeway, but it does not seem that likely. I think the next Trek book I read willprobably be the Deep Space Nine Millennium series or &quot;A Stitch in Time,&quot; by Andrew J. Robinson (about Garak, and written by the actor who played him).	2002-02-11
US	49444977	R23E586SL6FS9W	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Humanity, aliens and the coming of age of man	This novel has three different parts: Earth and the Overlords, The Golden Age and the Last Generation. The basic premise of the novel is that at some point in the 20th century, extremely powerful aliens (hereafter called the \\"Overlords\\") arrive and take over Earth.<br />However, the twist to the novel is that the aliens are not interested in conquest or any sort of domination. Rather, they saw Earth as a something of a tiresome chore, to be managed and put into order. While they are some that resist the aliens on principle, there is little to complain about. Hunger, disease, war are all gone. But all original art and science are gone; humanity starts to stagnate. <br />There is tremendous pressure in Part 1 for the Overlords to reveal themselves. They resist this pressure and remain mysterious. The Overlords say that they will reveal themselves in 50 years... When the Overlords reveal themselves, it is a moving scene. I don't want to reveal what happens but it was good.<br />Later on in Part 2 (The Golden Age), there are many benefits. Yet, not all was well.<br />\\"Profounder things had also passed. It was a completely secular age. Of the faiths that had existed before the coming of the Overloads, only a form of purified Buddhism - perhaps the most austere of all religions - still survived. The creeds that had been based upon miracles and revelation had collapsed utterly. With the rise of education, they had already been slowly dissolving, but for a while the Overlords had taken so sides in the matter. Though Karellen was often asked to express his views on religion, all that he would say was that a man's beliefs were his own affair, so long as they did not interfere with the liberty of others.\\" (page 74)<br />This is one trend that seems to plague much of science fiction, this assumption that science is true and that theistic religion has no basis in reality, that it is merely superstitious nonsense. Mainly because this is assumed with no argument or discussion, I find it distasteful and arrogant. Note, if you don&#8217;t want to spoil the best parts of the novel, don&#8217;t read anything further.<br />That aside, the novel was very enjoyable. There were several powerful scenes in the novel. The ending of the novel, with Karellen (the &#8216;leader&#8217; of the Overlords in charge of Earth) and the death of the last man in the world, was particularly poignant. In the middle part (The Last Generation), I think Clarke implies that mere pleasure is not enough. At this point in time, there was enough wealth to feed everybody and those who wanted luxuries had to work for them, but in the field of their choosing. Machines had eliminated manual labour and the only thing left was sports and other such amusements. Then, a new colony called New Athens is founded to encourage new art and new culture, something that had not been produced since the coming of the Overlords.<br />All through the novel, I wondered what did the title mean. In the final chapters of the novel, it is explained. Suddenly, a whole generation of children developed, indeed leapt forward into a whole new state. They could manipulate matter, did not need to eat and ultimately left Earth. It was the end of humanity&#8217;s &#8220;childhood.&#8221; The last man in the world had traveled, as a stowaway on an Overlord ship, to the Overlord home world. Due to the relativity of time in near light speed travel, he aged only six months while eighty years passed on Earth. He returned to an empty Earth&#8230;<br />This is the first Clarke novel that I have read and I was very impressed by it. The science is plausible but it is not dominant.	2002-02-11
US	49444977	RZ92T1UH1EFVF	0312932081	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Examination of militaristic thinking, power and genuis	I got this novel as a gift from a friend about a year ago. I started reading it and I have to say that initially, I was not incredibly impressed with it. Then, I picked it up again and finished it off. The introduction was powerful (apparently, the novel is used in some military schools and several child prodigies have thoroughly identified with Ender) and there was an element in me that just wanted to read the novel to find out if all the hype was true; in large part, it is true.<br />The background of the novel is that humanity has withstood two alien invasions (by the \\"buggers\\") and has temporally united to fight them again. I liked that fact that this was another utopian world government; there is still political friction on Earth despite the war. Due to the fact that humanity is overwhelmingly outgunned and outnumbered, a genetic engineering program has been implemented to produce an ideal military commander.<br />One family, the Wiggins, have had three children altered for the program. Peter is manipulative, cruel and destructive. Valentine is wise but lacks the hardness that a successful commander needs. The third and youngest, Andrew \\"Ender\\" Wiggin is the family's last hope. When he is only very young (around 6), the military recruits him for military school.<br />Following this is Ender's journey to become a commander. He is pushed very hard to succeed. He is manipulated, put into fights, and just plain pressured to do well. Ender is then propelled through military school at an unheard of pace, but he learns to be innovative, how to trust his commanders and how to be a good leader.<br />However, Ender's brother and sister are busy with other plans. Together, they become influential on Earth's networks, writing columns and slowly becoming powerful. Eventually, Peter becomes Hegemon (this is position is similar to the US Presidency but with much more territory) and Valentine leaves Earth with Ender to found human colonies on the former bugger worlds.<br />Oneof the ways in which I measure novels is the way I feel after I finish it. I had a very satisfied feeling upon finishing and I immediately went out to buy the sequel, \\"Speaker for the Dead\\" (which according to the author, can also be read as a stand-alone novel) and plan to read it soon. Throughout the novel, there is great commentary on the nature of power and what military training can do to a person. In addition it is fascinating to see that when a society feels threatened it will do anything to preserve itself. In this novel, that means a genetic engineering program and putting young children (6-18) into military training and thence battle. Indeed, after the final victory in the novel, the adults say that only children could win the battles as adult response time and other factors would be too slow and adults would be over cautious.<br />This is one highly recommended novel and you need not be a science fiction reader to enjoy it. The characterization and motivations of the characters alone make the novel worth reading.	2002-02-04
US	49444977	R2IFQD5Y664WIO	0553379267	284019128	A Canticle for Leibowitz (Bantam Spectra Book)	Books	5	13	17	N	N	An epic of post-apocalyptic fiction	This is one of the best post-apocalyptic novels I have ever read. Even though the novel spans over a thousand years, there are constants: a monastery, Latin and the Roman Catholic Church.<br />The premise of the novel is that at some point in the 20th century, there was a nuclear war that almost destroyed humanity. Those who survived turned their fury on the scientists they thought were responsible for unleashing nuclear weapons on the world. Soon, the mob began to attack the educated, the literate, all those thought to be associated with the scientists. The collective knowledge of all humanity would have perished except for the efforts of Leibowitz, a man who tried to preserve fragments of knowledge amidst an almost overwhelming climate of fanatic anti-intellectualism.<br />Centuries later, a monastic order, which legend says was founded by Leibowitz, holds the world's knowledge, by copying books and memorizing texts until the world was ready for it. At one point, a monk discovers a 20th century nuclear fall out bunker and attempts to understand its contents. It is interesting to note that he finds \\"pre-Deluge\\" English difficult and he thinks that \\"Fallout\\" is a beast or monster, instead of a side effect from nuclear weaponry.<br />The next section takes place several centuries after the first. There is something of a recovery under way, some primitive electrical devices are created and there is a drive to revive learning outside the Church. Also, the warring factions of the former United States are slowly being conquered to form a single whole. As the secular centers of learning gain strength, the old rivalry between the educated clergy and the educated secular man resumes again.<br />The last part takes place around 3750 A.D., almost two thousand years from the present. At this point, the world has been united into a few factions (Asia and North America-Europe), nuclear weapons have been developed and advanced space travel is available. The monastery continues toexist, although some new buildings have been added and now the monks are engaged in science. Then, there is a mysterious explosion somewhere in the Pacific. It triggers a second global war, but this time the Church was prepared. Over a generation before this, the Church prepared a contingency plan. In the event of nuclear war, the Church would send enough priests, bishops etc.. to reestablish the Church elsewhere, even though Earth perishes.<br />Now you know something about the book, you might ask, \\"Why did you like it?\\" As am I something of a history buff, I found it fascinating that the Roman Catholic Church preserved knowledge single-handedly in the novel somewhat similarly to the fall of the Roman Empire (in reality, the Arabs and the Byzantines played a major part in preserving the heritage of Greco-Roman civilization). The novel took religion seriously; indeed monks are the stars of this novel, yet the novel never becomes preachy. There were great scenes in the book too; an Abbot (the ruler of a monastery) mediates on whether humanity is doomed to destroy Earth using nuclear weapons, rebuild and do it all over again, a secular scholar and an Abbot argue in a matter reminiscent of the current evolution-creation debate. The epic scale of the book which spans almost two thousand years is executed remarkably well, although it is jarring to end section and begin the next knowing all the characters you got to know have long since died.<br />The only drawback to the novel, for me, was that the monks often use Latin, in their chants, letters etc... and well, I just don't know Latin. Sometimes, it is translated but more often than not, it is simply left. The effect is to remind the reader that the Church is as a nearly eternal organization; century in, century out, everything is the same. Yet, not all is the same.<br />I thoroughly enjoyed the novel; a very satisfying read overall.	2002-01-30
US	49444977	R2H9GG59TFA6G7	0385499345	475272008	The Lexus and the Olive Tree: Understanding Globalization	Books	4	26	30	N	N	Good general picture of globalization with flaws	Thomas Friedman has been a foreign correspondent with the New York Times for years, and as such has seen much of the world. Indeed, every single chapter has several stories from villagers in China, US government officials, to Silicon Valley executives.<br />Friedman's strength is composing analogies to make globalization comprehensible. He describes the collective activities of investors, large and small, using the Internet to move money around the planet quickly and sometimes irresponsibly as the &quot;Electronic Herd.&quot; He describes the American-style free-market capitalism that best takes advantage of globalization as the &quot;Golden Straitjacket.&quot; He describes economies using a personal computer analogy; the basic economic system (e.g. capitalist, communist, authoritarian etc) is the &quot;hardware&quot; and the legal system, free press, social attitudes etc compromise the &quot;operating system&quot; and &quot;software&quot; of an economy. If a country just has an open economy with no political stability, no stock market regulation etc, it is like a computer without a surge protector when lightning strikes; the result is a meltdown.<br />As far as Friedman's evaluation of globalization, I would describe his view as cautiously optimistic. Friedman himself states, &quot;Generally speaking, I think it's a good thing that the sun comes up every morning. It does more good than harm, especially if you wear sunscreen and sunglasses. But even if I didn't care for the dawn there isn't much I could do to stop it. I didn't start globalization, I can't stop it - except at a huge cost to human development - and I'm not going to waste time trying.&quot;  (xxi-xxii)<br />In terms of documenting his position, the single largest problem with the book is the near total reliance on anecdotes and interviews. There is no bibliography and no footnotes in the book (well, there are some internal footnotes), merely a one and a half page list of acknowledgements for all the people he interviewed. While these definitely make the book interesting to read and personal, one always can and should ask, &quot;Are these people representative of what's happening?&quot;  I think this sort of material should be used for purposes of highlighting points or illustration rather than the main content of a book. To be fair, Friedman does include statistics and other such information from a variety of sources (but his documentation is spotty; sometimes he will just say &quot;The Economist says&quot;)<br />Friedman's main thesis is that globalization is the _system_ of international relations that has replaced the Cold War system of nuclear weapons, East vs. West and the rest of it. While there is certainly strong points to support him in this (e.g. the Soviets are gone) and the greatly increased importance of international trade and the ability of markets to move capital around the world quickly, an ability made possible by new technologies (especially the Internet), I think he has probably overstated his case. <br />To explain the title of the book, the Lexus represents all the forces of globalization; the Internet, investors, the Golden Straitjacket and so on. The Olive Tree represents the home, national identity and all the things provide a person's meaning and value in life. There needs to be a balance between these two forces. Silicon Valley executives that demand all Lexus and no Olive Tree are going to produce people with no sense of identity or self and people that only have the Olive Tree are either going to become poor or remain cut off from the major sources of growth in the world today.<br />The economic aspect of the globalization is the primary focus of the book, so there is only limited content dedicated to the effects (positive and negative) on the environment and culture. Friedman is also _very_ critical of those who would criticize globalization; his main criticism can be summed up with this quote: &quot;Like other ideological backlashers against globalization, Zjuganov had more attitude than workable programs, more ideas about how to distribute income than about how to generate it.&quot; (page 328)<br />Critics of globalization ought to take note; simply saying, &quot;This is all wrong!&quot; is just not enough anymore. Real, workable alternatives have to be provided. I think one good example of this is the Canadian Centre for Policy Alternatives, which actually provides alternative Government budgets.<br />Friedman concludes the book with a long discussion (Part Four: America and the System) of how America is the country best suited to take responsibility for managing globalization AND how America is the country that is ideally situated to benefit from it. He thinks that there has to some safeguards on the system to prevent it from harming too many people. It is interesting to note that Friedman added about 100 pages in this second version of the book, which is only about a year old. He needs to change it to take account of September 11, the collapse of Argentina and the bankruptcy of Enron, among other things.<br />I have not decided what I think about globalization just yet though; this is a good starting place to begin though. The next book I read on the topic will be, \\"The Globalization Reader,\\" edited by Frank Lechner and John Boli (ISBN: 0631214771); it covers all aspects of globalization from a variety of perspectives; critics, optimists, and those who are in between.	2002-01-14
US	49444977	R3NIKNBD0ADOKQ	0345383249	760372128	Eaters of the Dead: The Manuscript of Ibn Fadlan, Relating His Experiences With the Northmen in A.D. 922	Books	3	5	10	N	N	Interesting idea but writing and style suffers	This is the second Crichton novel I have ever read. I think Crichton has a good ability to find new ideas and explore them in fiction. In the early 1990's, it was genetic engineering (Jurassic Park), in &quot;Timeline&quot; it was the possibilities offered by quantum computing (I haven't heard/read anything else about this though). <br />As other reviewers note, this novel is based on a fragmented manuscript relating the doings of an Arab who travels with and fights with Vikings in Scandinavia around the early 10th century AD. Crichton obviously did his research, as he usually does, which is evidenced by explanatory footnotes, a list of the sources he consulted and so on. <br />As Crichton says in, &quot;A Factual Note on Eaters of the Dead,&quot; he originally set out to find out if &quot;Beowulf&quot; had any basis in historical fact, as Heinrich Schliemann did for &quot;The Iliad&quot; in the 19th century. However, the task proved too difficult. So, he decided to write a novel instead. The idea of having a foreign observer to provide a unique (hopefully objective) perspective is a good one. The discussion the Vikings have over Fadlan's monotheism is amusing, as is his interaction with the polytheistic beliefs of the Vikings.<br />The novel has the tone of an official report, where the observer simply records the events that happen around him. There are no embellishments or flourishes. This can make the text tough going; there is little to keep the reader interested in the story. I wish Crichton had been freer in his style rather than writing what is best described as a fictional historical document. <br />The most interesting parts of the novel were the notes, appendixes and Introduction. For example, Crichton writes in his appendixes that there is some discussion over whether the \\"eaters of the dead\\" (the \\"monsters\\" of the novel) are in fact Neanderthals. In the appendixes, Crichton says, \\"While I was writing, I felt that I was drawing the line between fact anddiction clearly.... But within a few years, I could no longer be certain which passages were real, and which were made up.\\" (page 198) He ends his comment by briefly discussing post modernism, \\"I mention this because the tendency to blur the boundary between fact and fiction has become widespread in modern society... But this attitude of `post-modern' scholars represents a more fundamental change. Some in academic life now argue seriously that there is no difference between fact and fiction, that all ways of reading text are arbitrary and personal, and that pure invention is as valid as hard research.\\" (page 198) He calls this trend, \\"... at worst, it is nasty and dangerous.\\" It is obvious that such relativism is clearly false, but this is not an appropriate place to criticize such an idea (see my review of \\"Relativism: Feet planted firmly in mid-air\\" by Gregory Koukl and Francis Beckwith).<br />I have not yet seen the film adaptation of this novel and I'm not sure if I will or not. Clearly, the slow, report-like format of the novel could not be successfully reproduced on film. I fear that the \\"13th warrior\\" (the title of the film adaptation of this novel) is simply an action film with monsters and Vikings...	2002-01-05
US	49444977	R1PV2N63KEY01Q	0140241167	186040242	Wars	Books	3	5	8	N	N	World War 1 fiction	This novel is about the experiences of a Canadian man in World War 1. The flow of the story is occasionally interrupted by the activities of a researcher investigating the life of Robert Ross (a Second Lieutenant in the Canadian Army) in some kind of archive or interviewing people who met Ross during his lifetime. It is never made clear what is happening; why is the researcher/interviewer doing his investigations? Why is he writing this account (i.e. the novel)? There is no real conclusion to the novel or resolution of the researcher plot. Findley has Ross die shortly after World War 1 and the researcher plot abruptly ends.<br />The sections of the novel that are actually about fighting in the trenches are reasonably good. I think Findley properly emphasizes how dirty, mud-filled and wretched the trenches of World War 1 were. Occasionally, there are flashbacks to the protagonist's family in Canada, which were poorly executed. Findley should have focused on the actual war and avoided these diversions.<br />In Canada, this novel won the Governor General's Award in 1977 but I don't see why it is so spectacular. There is a sense that the protagonist is something of a controversial figure (he deserts the army and shoots some Canadian soldiers) but Ross' history and legacy is simply left too ambiguous.<br />In rating this novel, I wanted to give it 2.5 stars, but alas, Amazon does not allow that. The novel simply strikes me as mediocre; there is nothing exceptional to it.	2002-01-04
US	49444977	R30UZH3R04JWLU	1586635271	509886362	Tolkien's Ring	Books	4	27	28	N	N	The history and mythology that inspired Tolkien	This book is a piece of \\"literary detective work\\"; it seeks to find the myths and stories that inspired Tolkien in his creation of his three great works: The Hobbit, The Lord of the Rings and the Silmarillion. <br />The author states something of a disclaimer at the beginning though:<BR>&quot;In Tolkien's Ring, we will survey a vast body of myth and legend in search of Tolkien's sources. We will look at other rings and ring quests, and we will see where many elements of his epic tale were provoked into existence. However, we should never mistake Tolkien's creative process as a mere cobbling together of ancient lore. Richer and more profound through Tolkien's writing is for the ancient tradition it draws on, Tolkien's art is by no means imitation. The Lord of the Rings is a highly realized and originally conceived novel that has renewed, invigorated and finally reinvented the ring quest for the twentieth century.&quot; (page 17)<br />I think the author correctly identifies the primary time period and location that served as the prime inspiration for Tolkien. To use England as a benchmark, the time period runs from the end of the Roman period in England (406 AD) to the Conquest of William the Conqueror (1066 AD). The location is that is northern Europe; Scandinavia and Germany in particular. <br />The author also makes some interesting insights regarding metallurgy, the Iron Age, alchemy and ring-based mythology. The ring in that time period (especially in Scandinavia) was a symbol of power (e.g. Kings are &quot;ring-givers&quot;) and it became the central symbol of the struggling pagan religions of Europe against the Christian symbol of the Cross. In many of the ring myths, the hero is always questing for a ring, which will provide him the power to rule the world, increase his physical strength, increase his wisdom or provide him with other such powers. This reflects the discovery of iron making; those who know how to make iron had a clear advantage of those who didnot. Iron knowledge was thus precious and often kept secret. The knowledge to control and manipulate iron was often combined with magical/alchemical ideas; this led to the idea of the sorcerer-smith. <br />The Niebelungenlied (a Germanic epic) and the Volsunga Saga (Norse; unknown date. Probably within 400-1000 AD) were the prime examples of what Tolkien called the &quot;noble northern spirit,&quot; of Germany and Scandinavia. Tolkien's tale leans more towards to German epic with its sense of morality reinforced by strong elements of Arthurian legend. The idea of a sorcerer/magician as a wandering old man with beard and hat was clearly modeled on the depiction of Odin (to draw a rough analogy; he is the Norse version of Zeus) in the Volsunga Saga.<br />In reading this book, there were times where I thought the author was really stretching his source material. It may be interesting to investigate the ring mythology of Tibet, but this was not exactly a significant influence on Tolkien. There were other times where the author simply summarized the myth; an entire chapter could go buy without reference to Tolkien or his works. With respect, when I buy a book on Tolkien, I expect to find analysis and discussion OF Tolkien. The author's analysis could have been improved by investigating Tolkien's life; what sagas were his favorites? Why did he like them? Did he read the sagas in the original languages (I happen to know he did, from reading one of his biographies).<br />The second last chapter is a synopsis of Richard Wagner's huge opera, &quot;The Ring of Nibelung.&quot; The author makes the point that every age retells and adapts the ring myth for its own time and that this opera was written for 19th century Germany. However, if the reader has been paying attention to the previous chapters, this is simply a repeat of the previous stories with some changes.<br />The last chapter is a chapter of speculation on, &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot; The author seeks to understand why it has become so popular and how the message of the novel can be applied to our times. Thankfully, the author includes this disclaimer:<br />&quot;That is not to say that The Lord of the Rings is an allegory of our time. Tolkien rightly rejected the allegorical view as too narrow for his tale. He especially abhorred questions of the 'Are Orcs Nazis or Communists?' kind. Tolkien's purpose was both more specific and universal than that.&quot; (page 177)<br />My main criticism of this book is the total lack of documentation. There are no footnotes, no endnotes, and no bibliography. One wonders where the author got some of his ideas (e.g. a legend about Solomon controlling demons) and it would be helpful if the author could have recommended good translations of the relevant epics and other such information.<br />Reading this book was somewhat difficult for a person who is not familiar with the literature of the &quot;noble northern spirit&quot;; the barrage of unfamiliar names, places, spirits, Gods etc is difficult to keep track of. It is unfortunate that this literature is given almost no time in school curricula compared to the time given to the Roman and Greek mythology.  Western civilization is based on Greco-Roman culture and Christianity, but that does mean the literature and culture of the so-called &quot;Dark Ages&quot; ought to be neglected.	2002-01-02
US	49444977	R3SIYL8XXJCK7N	0441172717	88529599	Dune	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A detailed world of politics, religion and history	Dune is a complete sub-world; it has its own political struggles, its own history and its own religious traditions. The setting is in the distant future, thousands of years from the present.<br />The political system is based on the Imperium, the Great Houses and the Guild. The Imperium's military and economic power is balanced by the combined power of the Great Houses. The Guild, in turn, has exclusive monopoly over banking and space travel. The political system was established by the Great Convention, which set laws of war, principally the banning of nuclear weapons for combat purposes.<br />The religions of the novel are faintly similar to current religions; there are strands of Taoist and Islamic ideas scattered about. The Muad'dib is a messianic figure who is able to combine male and female traits. The main character, Paul Atreides, of House Atreides, becomes this Messianic figure on Dune. He has great persuasive ability, limited power to predict the future and many other almost super-human qualities.<br />Dune (the planet) is significant for its spice; spice is perhaps best described as a life-prolonging drug that is mildly or extremely addictive based on how much one consumes. However, the spice is produced by gigantic worms that make harvesting the substance dangerous to all but the native Fremen.<br />I really liked the political intrigue of the book, the scheming within the Great Houses, the Guild and the mystical/religious Bene Gesserit School; there is no clear all-powerful faction in this Universe.<br />The religions of the novel are strange. The characters frequently quote the Orange Catholic Bible. The novel's &quot;Terminology of the Imperium,&quot; says this about the O.C. Bible:<br />&quot;the 'Accummulated Book,' the religious text produced by the Commission of Ecumenical Translators. It contains sections if most ancient religions, including the Maometh Saari, Mahayana Christianity, Zesummo Catholicism and Buddislamic traditions. Its supreme commandment is considered to be: 'Thou shalt not disfigure thy soul'&quot; (page 525)<br />One of the Appendixes of the novel gives the religious history that led to the production of the O.C. Bible. The conditions leading up to that point are vaguely similar to the Thirty Year's War (1618-1648) in Europe; however, the outcome in the two cases was very different. In the European situation, the denominational theory of the Church (multiple denominations could peacefully coexist) was developed and the idea of separation of Church and State formed. In the history of the novel, the religious leaders form syncretistic religion. The leaders of the movement make their first public statement: &quot;We are here to remove a primary weapon from the hands of the disputant religions. That weapon - the claim to possession of the one and only revelation.&quot; (page 502)<br />It is unfortunate that an otherwise good novel makes such a basic philosophical error. In ruling out exclusive claims, the leaders cut the branch they're standing on. This means that their authority and writings can have no supreme claim, they are simply one among many equal options. The leaders included everybody but those who thought that there was only one way; they weren't really all-inclusive. <br />I don't know if I will lead the rest of the series but this first book was definitely a good read. One of things that I appreciated about the book is the fact that it takes religion seriously. In many of the futures commonly depicted in science fiction, religion of any sort is missing and secular humanism is triumphant. There were some parts of the novel that felt really slow and sometimes I would wonder when a certain section would end.	2002-01-01
US	49444977	R2KEYMEALFZ8G0	0141186151	988777649	Fifth Business (Deptford Trilogy)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Decent Canadian fiction	This is a very typical Canadian novel, set in the first half of the 20th century. The protagonist, Dunstan Ramsay, is born in a small Ontario town where he experiences the sort of the village politics that have since become a thing of the past (the social differences between different Christian denominations dominates the scene).<br />Dunstan undergoes several major turning points in his life. The first and probably most important is World War 1 (1914-1918), an event that was definitive in the formation of Canadian identity. Dunstan then becomes a teacher and leads a rather uneventful life.<br />Some of themes explored in the book are spirituality vs. materialism, psychology and religion. The first theme is evident in the interaction between Dunstan and his lifelong friend, Boy Staunton. Boy is a successful businessman who succeeds at everything he tries but has little time or inclination for spiritual matters. Dunstan, meanwhile, teaches at a high school his whole life and writes books about saints. Dunstan finds intellectual stimulation and meaning in the inner life. Psychology is explored using Jungian symbolism (Carl Justav Jung 1875-1961, Swiss-German psychologist) and Sigmund Freud's ideas, (1856-1939, Austrian, founder of psychology). Their ideas about the unconscious, both individual and collective, are seen throughout the book. <br />The preoccupation of with psychology of religion in the book is very telling of the late 20th century. The characters are more concerned with their emotions, \\"mental health\\" and the like rather than whether finding out if beliefs are true. The depiction of agnostics/atheists in the novel is very realistic; the characters mumble something about reason or rationality and then proceed to ridicule the believer. Granted this sort of behavior is limited to those people who believe atheism because it is fashionable and thought to be intellectual, it is still well done.<br />Another major theme is that of religion and magic; are they the same? Do the differences really matter? One of Dunstan's favorite sayings is that the Bible and Arabian Nights are very similar; this is not explained though. I got the impression that Davies is saying that both of them are simply amusing, meaningful stories with no objective basis or that the value of both of them is in their psychological truths. Paul Dempster, whose premature birth is caused by Dunstan and Boy, renames himself Magnus Eisengrim and becomes a magician of international renown.<br />Overall, I found the novel interesting although its approach to matters of religion is tiresome. After all, if one's beliefs are false then it does not matter how useful or satisfying you find them, for they are nothing but a fiction. The struggle for identity in the novel is very Canadian, for we are always trying to define ourselves other than to say, \\"We're not Americans.\\"	2001-12-31
US	49444977	R1VD2MYG9LSOSZ	0801038189	329816831	Introduction to Philosophy: A Christian Perspective	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Christianity and philosophy; friends, not enemies	Even though this book is written as a textbook, I found it very useful. The first chapter shows the reader what philosophy is about and its value. Of particular note, is the half page section titled, \\"The Christian Challenge.\\" Here the authors state their position on the relationship between Christianity and philosophy:<br />\\"Christianity can stand up to the intellectual challenge mounted against it. The result of such a challenge should not be the loss of faith, but the priceless possession of a well-reasoned and mature faith.\\" (page 22)<br />Before the authors embark on the specific fields of philosophy, a quick sketch is provided of some of the major fields (e.g. ethics, political philosophy, and logic) and the tools of philosophy. This discussion of logic and argumentation includes induction vs. deduction, the existential method, the phenomenological method and the analytic method. <br />Two of the most important chapters for the new philosopher are, \\"The Tools of Philosophy,\\" and, \\"The Challenge of Philosophy.\\" The Tools chapter is a discussion of how arguments are constructed and how to evaluate them. The Challenge chapter discusses the goals of philosophy and the role the philosophy plays for the Christian (including \\"The Biblical Basis for Christian Philosophy\\")<br />Following this are Parts that focus on the main branches of philosophy:<BR>Epistemology (What is Knowledge? How can we know?)<BR>Metaphysics (What is reality? Is man free? Does man survive death?)<BR>Philosophy of Religion (Does God exist? The Problem of Evil)<BR>Ethics (What is the right? Is the Right Universal? Do Moral Duties ever conflict?)<br />The authors general approach is to explain a view point, explain its supporting arguments and then the criticism that have been laid against it. Occasionally, the authors include an explicitly Christian viewpoint that incorporates all the previous views into one comprehensive whole.<br />The best example in the book of a Christian synthesis is the chapter entitled, \\"What is the Right?\\" In this chapter, the authors construct a Christian definition for the right, that is both philosophically sophisticated and true to the Bible. This discussion explains how the Christian definition depends on general revelation (i.e. natural law) and special revelation (i.e. the Bible). <br />Two other chapters stand out as well, \\"Does God exist?\\" and, \\"The Problem of Evil.\\" In the, \\"Does God exist,\\" chapter, the authors evaluate atheism (the view that God does not exist), agnosticism (the view that God's existence is unknown or unknowable) and theism (the view that God exists). Readers of Geisler's other works (notably Christian Apologetics and the Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics) will recognize Geisler's superb arguments. He puts all the arguments in a clear, precise form, which makes the arguments easier to analyze. The chapter concludes with the following heading, \\"We have sufficient reason to believe in God.\\"<br />\\"The Problem of Evil,\\" chapter follows the typical example of explaining the differing viewpoints and evaluating them but it also includes the precise, step-by-step formulation that makes complex arguments accessible. From both of these chapters, it is clear that the only real argument that atheism can muster against theism is the argument from evil. But, after reading this chapter and reading other excellent Christian philosophers like William Lane Craig, it becomes obvious that this objection has been refuted.<br />The authors include a glossary, which provides quick definitions for terms such as: Logic, non sequitur, theism, accident, antinomy, deontology etc... There is also an index. <br />My only serious criticism of the book is similar to what I wrote about Geisler's \\"Christian Apologetics.\\" At the end of every chapter, the authors list, \\"Suggested Readings.\\" However, these are almost always primary readings (e.g. Plato, Kant etc...) or from books that are out of print. It would be helpful if theauthors had included more contemporary books. Lastly, the lack of an annotated bibliography is noted. <I recommend this book for Christians who are studying philosophy at the university or college level and for Christians interested in knowing what philosophy is all about.	2001-12-24
US	49444977	R3LLX6FKYH8BSZ	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	3	4	20	N	N	Funny but why? Why do people like this book?	I listened to this book on CD; the six CD BBC Radio production. While I certainly found the book amusing, I don't know why people are so excited about it. It seems that Adams pretends to have a plot but really does not want to have one. The tone is too ridiculous to be meaningful and the characters are too flat.<br />The event that starts the novel is the demolition of Earth for a hyperspace bypass. Only one human, Arthur Dent, escapes with an alien taking human form, Ford Prefect. Following this, they meet some other characters and have a random, bizarre romp around the galaxy.<br />There were some interesting ideas here but Adams just didn't pursue them. Super-beings create a computer to determine the answer to the meaning of life (this in itself could have an interesting point; man relies on machines for the most important of tasks etc...) and after millions of years, it reaches the answer. &quot;The answer is 42.&quot; As this made no sense to the super beings, they designed a planet-sized computer called Earth to find the question to the meaning of life. In the novel, the question is never revealed even though one of the characters knows it. <br />The title of the novel is an actual book in the story. It a collection of articles and miscellaneous data about the galaxy, towels, alcohol and all sorts of different topics; this could have formed the basis for an interesting plot. The story could have featured, Ford Prefect, himself a contributor to the guide travel about and write about the places he visits and other such tidbits. It could be some sort of  \\"Lonely Planet\\" book for the galaxy.<br />There were other parts of the novel that were just plain weird; the editor of the, &quot;The Hitch hiker's Guide to the Galaxy,&quot; takes an inter-galactic cruise in his office. The main characters travel in a space ship powered by an Infinite Improbability Drive. The characters visit a restaurant that exists at the end of time...<br />I fully admit that the book is funny; it has a sort of British humor that I just love but after that, there's not much of substance here. However, seeing as it is incredibly popular for some reason, it may be worth a read.	2001-12-24
US	49444977	R3NE5NVI9U83KB	0849938619	592168879	Church History In Plain Language	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Christianity; the message that changed the world	Any author attempting to cover the entire two thousand year of Christianity in five hundred pages is bound to be criticized. Yet I think Shelley was properly selective in his approach. After the Reformation, Shelley primarily covers American and British Christianity; for a Canadian, these are major influences on Canadian culture. <br />Shelley does not cover, in a significant way, Christianity in Africa, Asia or South America except in a few brief areas. The focus is on Protestantism (Roman Catholicism retains a minor role in the post-Reformation part of the part, while Eastern Orthodoxy goes almost completely neglected) and how it has affected Britain and the United States.<br />Shelley divides Church history in 8 &quot;Ages&quot; such as:<BR>The Age of Catholic Christianity<BR>The Age of the Christian Roman Empire<BR>The Age of the Reformation<BR>The Age of Progress <BR>The Age of Ideologies<br />When each major section, Shelley writes concise chapters (10-20 pages in length) on the major people involved. As mentioned by other reviewers, Shelley clearly shows the interaction between the Church and the surrounding culture. Shelley has the ability to describe the essence of a movement, whether it is Reformed (Calvinist) Christianity or the ideas of the Enlightenment, in an accessible way, allowing the reader to understand the great ideas of history. Do not get the impression that Shelley is concerned only with high-minded ideas, he provides lively biographical sketches of the people who have led the Church, letting the reader see them as people, the bad and the good.<br />Reading the sections on the last 200 years, I was frequently frustrated. My frustration was not due to Shelley's writing in any way though. The frustration is caused by the fact that the Church seems to never intellectually respond to its critics whether it be 19th century German higher criticism (which assumed miracles were impossible), evolution and the challenges of Enlightenment philosophy. Today, the Church has men such as J.P. Moreland and William Lane Craig to deal with such challenges. The other main problem that Church was not engaged with was the economic problems that the Industrial Revolution brought and the clamor for democracy. In contemporary society, the equivalent to the Industrial Revolution is globalization and it is unfortunate that the Church is not interacting with it. The question I wonder was why did the Church fail to respond? Why did the Church simply hide behind its walls?<br />The other interesting problem that has become a recurring theme since the Reformation is how the Christian faith is to relate to society and the State. Clearly, the medieval fusion of Church and State has died. I think Martin Luther King Jr., said it best when he said, &quot;The church must be reminded that it is not the master or the servant of the state, but rather the conscience of the state. It must be the guide and the critic of the state, and never its tool. If the church does not recapture its prophetic zeal, it will become an irrelevant social club without moral or spiritual authority.&quot;<br />The author describes a trend in late 20th century America that he describes as the Age of Self. He identifies two main influences that produced the age: 1) the popular acceptance of psychology and 2) the pervasive use of television. Psychology entered American popular culture in the 1960's vocabulary: &quot;It was fashionable and healthy to 'hang loose,' break free, and experience 'inner space.' It was unhealthy to have 'hangups' or to be 'uptight.' Immoral acts were easily explained by psychological conditions.&quot; (page 473)<br />These changes, coupled with the intellectual upheavals of the previous two centuries, changed Christianity into emotional experiential faith unconnected and unconcerned with objective reality in the form of history and science.<br />Other important movements that are covered include the ecumenical movement, the problem of evangelism in different cultures (i.e. how much can Christianity be adapted, somehow be shed of its European package and introduced to Third World cultures) and the Second Vatican Council.<br />In terms of the format of the book, the author includes numerous useful features. There are chronologies that place all the events, lives, and movements of an age on a timeline, giving the reader a quick snapshot of the period. There are three separate indexes; one for people, movements and events. There is also an appendix that lists all the Popes, up to John Paul II. Also, at the end of each chapter, Shelley includes a, &quot;Suggestions for Further Reading,&quot; section to allow the reader to delve more deeply into subjects of interest.<br />Although my impression of the book's pre-Reformation period is fading, there seemed to be an unfortunate absence any substantive interaction with the &quot;dark&quot; parts of Christian history. Though it is true that Christianity has founded hospitals, cared for the poor and achieved other admirable social goods, a balanced view ought to take account of the negative as well. In particular, I noticed an almost complete omission of Crusades (and by extension, Christianity's historical relation to Islam and Islamic civilization) and the practices of the Inquisition. I would have liked the author to cover the witch trials and the like as well, but I recognize that this was minor event in terms of the grand scheme of history. <br />I recognize that the author is an American Protestant and as such may think it unnecessary to deal with the evil doings of the Catholic Church (I don't suggest the Church was ALWAYS evil, but as an organization it allowed/implemented many immoral acts), but for most of Church history, it represented Christianity.<br />The book is an excellent introduction for people who want answers to questions such as why there are so many denominations (a complicated issue involving the Thirty Years War, the Reformation, the Counter-Reformation and other events) and how Christianity has changed with the passing of time.	2001-12-23
US	49444977	R1XFYHWDBFZUDN	0393320979	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation (Bilingual Edition)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The ancient epic; first work of English literature	The reason I read, &quot;Beowulf,&quot; is two-fold. A friend of mine is really into the Vikings and Norse culture and history (he mentioned it a few times and I was curious) and it was one of JRR Tolkien's favorite poems. After having read, &quot;The Hobbit,&quot; and, &quot;The Lord of the Rings,&quot; several times, one wonders what inspired Tolkien. If I may be permitted to speculate, the Rohirrim (Men residing in Rohan) are probably the influenced by, &quot;Beowulf.&quot; Likewise, the idea of a single person stealing a single treasure from dragon, thus awaking him is presented here and echoed in, &quot;The Hobbit.&quot; The setting is in Scandinavia, over a thousand years ago. I love the literature and the characters and their worldview, which is a combination of early Christianity with the warrior/honour ethic of northern Europe. It is sad that the virtues of duty and honour, so central to, &quot;Beowulf,&quot; are often so lacking in North American culture. <br />The other distinctive quality of the poem is its fantastic elements. There are three mythical beasts; Grendel, Grendel's mother and a dragon. Unfortunately, this makes many people think it is merely work for children. I resent such an attitude. Beowulf is one of the great pieces of European literature and, was the first piece of English literature. <br />My two favorite incidents of the poem are the Father's Lament (lines 2444-2462) and the reaction of the Geat woman to Beowulf's death (lines 3143-3155). I think Heaney captured the spirit of the poem here. <br />Many of the reviews I have read here on Amazon debate the accuracy of the translation and recommend other versions. For those seeking a translation of the poem for academic study, this may be good advice. For personal enjoyment and enrichment, this translation is adequate. <br />In the Introduction, Heaney states:<BR>&quot;While I had no great expertise in Old English...&quot; (xxii)<BR>Heaney, in addition to giving useful background and context to the poem, discusses his approach to translation. He also discusses how the language of Beowulf mirrors some elements of the English spoken by his family in Ireland. <br />Heaney may not be a professor of Old English, but this translation is a worthy addition to one's library of great literature.	2001-12-18
US	49444977	R1YLTESUZL5NZK	0618002243	669379389	The Return of the King (Lord of the Rings )	Books	5	4	5	N	N	So ends the Third Age and the War of the Ring	I think this part of, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" is the grandest part and has an epic ambience to it. In particular, the ascension of Aragorn to the Throne of Gondor and the other events in the south of Middle-Earth are evocative of early Middle Ages (c. 1000 AD) both in the pomp and circumstance of the feasts and ceremonies and in the speech of the characters.<br /><br />Even though, \\"Fellowship of the Ring,\\" is my favorite part of the story there are certain sections of the part that stand out in my memory. The concluding chapters, which have a royal and somewhat majestic feel, are:<br />The Field of Cormallen<br />The Steward and the King<br />Many Partings<br />One of the most famous chapters in, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" is, \\"The Scouring of the Shire,\\" where the four hobbits; Pippin, Merry, Frodo and Sam, return to the Shire (their homeland) after traveling around for over a year. Many have thought this chapter is some sort of comment on the effects of the industrial revolution on England; Tolkien has consistently denied that any events of the book are based on the real world.<br />One of the most endearing qualities of that chapter is the fact that the brave four hobbits lead a rebellion against Men (who in addition to being twice the height of the average hobbit, are much stronger) and corrupt hobbits. This is such a change from, \\"The Hobbit,\\" and the depiction on the Shire in, \\"The Fellowship of the Ring,\\" where the hobbits merely worry about food and live their lives in ease. The fact that their homeland was touched and damaged by the War of the Ring surprises the hobbits; they always expected to come back to find it unchanged.<br />Finally, the Elves, the oldest Race of Middle-Earth, depart and end the Third Age of the World. After the War and the departure of the Elves, the Fourth Age, the Age of Men begins. For those that are interested, there are several appendices at the end of this part that explains some of the background of the history, languages, characters and races of the novel.<br />As for why I love the novel so much, it is difficult to pin it down exactly. The sense of a simpler world without so much technology and bureaucracy, with mysterious forces moving about to do great deeds is part of it. So much of modern fiction is so dreary or mundane, that a bit of fantasy is good. The sense that the novel is a feigned history, almost mythical, is another endearing quality of the book, for I have always enjoyed reading history.<br />If you want to start reading, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" either buy a single volume or buy it in the three parts. The story is continuous and there are not breaks as such between the parts.racters and races of the novel.<br />As for why I love the novel so much, it is difficult to pin it down exactly. The sense of a simpler world without so much technology and bureaucracy, with mysterious forces moving about to do great deeds is part of it. So much of modern fiction is so dreary or mundane, that a bit of fantasy is good. The sense that the novel is a feigned history, almost mythical, is another endearing quality of the book, for I have always enjoyed reading history.<br />If you want to start reading, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" either buy a single volume or buy it in the three parts. The story is continuous and there are not breaks as such between the parts.	2001-12-14
US	49444977	RC1B0SHNL3GMO	0345339711	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Journey continues...	The Journey continues... 5 stars<br />This book starts off exactly where, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; (see my review) ends. The Nine Walkers of Boromir, Aragorn, Gandalf, Gimli, Legolas, Pippin, Merry and the Ring-bear Frodo set out from Rivendell. After their leader and guide fell into the abyss in Moria (an ancient palace of the Dwarves in the mountains), Aragorn became their leader.<br />After emerging from the mountains, and passing through the land of Lorien, the Company faced a choice. Should they go to Mordor, where Frodo must go to destroy the Ring, the all-powerful instrument of evil and corruption or travel to Minis Tirith (Tower of the Guard) capital of the Gondor, a nation of Men who are at war with Mordor and its evil ruler Sauron.<br />The Hobbits Sam and Frodo disappear and depart for Mordor. The other two Hobbits (Merry and Pippin) are taken captive by Orcs, despite being defended by Boromir, who is killed in their defence.<br />In the first half of, &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; the tale of what happened to Pippin, Merry, Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn is related. In the second half of, \\"The Two Towers,\\" the tale of what happened to Frodo and Sam is related. Within the book, I much prefer the first section of it. The reunion of the Hobbits with Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas is one of my favorite moments in the book.<br />In some ways, whenever I undertake to read, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" I dread the second section of, \\"The Two Towers.\\" Personally, I do no appreciate the pain-staking description of every mountain, rock and flower; I keep waiting for some actual dialogue or action to happen. Tolkien obviously had a vivid, EXTREMELY detailed imagination for he invented every single part of his fictional world of Middle-Earth to be believable. There is a history of behind all the races and some of the races have their very own languages.<br />The problem that Tolkien may have run into in his epic work is that he lost something in attempting to achieve the grand scale he sought to produce. His heavy use of allusions to persons and events that the reader knows nothing of start off as evocative and then begins to get annoying. However, in terms of good epic length fantasy literature, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" started it and it is probably one of the best novels of the 20th century. One last note, remember, Tolkien originally wrote the story for his own enjoyment, he did not envision millions of people in dozens of languages reading his work.ve the grand scale he sought to produce. His heavy use of allusions to persons and events that the reader knows nothing of start off as evocative and then begins to get annoying. However, in terms of good epic length fantasy literature, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" started it and it is probably one of the best novels of the 20th century. One last note, remember, Tolkien originally wrote the story for his own enjoyment, he did not envision millions of people in dozens of languages reading his work.	2001-12-14
US	49444977	RKRT8ZCV48Q7G	0618002235	669379389	The Two Towers (The Lord of the Rings, Part 2)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	The Journey continues...	This book starts off exactly where, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; (see my review) ends. The Nine Walkers of Boromir, Aragorn, Gandalf, Gimli, Legolas, Pippin, Merry and the Ring-bear Frodo set out from Rivendell. After their leader and guide fell into the abyss in Moria (an ancient palace of the Dwarves in the mountains), Aragorn became their leader.<br />After emerging from the mountains, and passing through the land of Lorien, the Company faced a choice. Should they go to Mordor, where Frodo must go to destroy the Ring, the all-powerful instrument of evil and corruption or travel to Minis Tirith (Tower of the Guard) capital of the Gondor, a nation of Men who are at war with Mordor and its evil ruler Sauron.<br />The Hobbits Sam and Frodo disappear and depart for Mordor. The other two Hobbits (Merry and Pippin) are taken captive by Orcs, despite being defended by Boromir, who is killed in their defence.<br />In the first half of, &quot;The Two Towers,&quot; the tale of what happened to Pippin, Merry, Legolas, Gimli and Aragorn is related. In the second half of, \\"The Two Towers,\\" the tale of what happened to Frodo and Sam is related. Within the book, I much prefer the first section of it. The reunion of the Hobbits with Aragorn, Gimli and Legolas is one of my favorite moments in the book.<br />In some ways, whenever I undertake to read, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" I dread the second section of, \\"The Two Towers.\\" Personally, I do no appreciate the pain-staking description of every mountain, rock and flower; I keep waiting for some actual dialogue or action to happen. Tolkien obviously had a vivid, EXTREMELY detailed imagination for he invented every single part of his fictional world of Middle-Earth to be believable. There is a history of behind all the races and some of the races have their very own languages.<br />The problem that Tolkien may have run into in his epic work is that he lost something in attempting to achieve the grand scale he sought to produce. His heavy use of allusions to persons and events that the reader knows nothing of start off as evocative and then begins to get annoying. However, in terms of good epic length fantasy literature, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" started it and it is probably one of the best novels of the 20th century. One last note, remember, Tolkien originally wrote the story for his own enjoyment, he did not envision millions of people in dozens of languages reading his work.e. His heavy use of allusions to persons and events that the reader knows nothing of start off as evocative and then begins to get annoying. However, in terms of good epic length fantasy literature, \\"The Lord of the Rings,\\" started it and it is probably one of the best novels of the 20th century. One last note, remember, Tolkien originally wrote the story for his own enjoyment, he did not envision millions of people in dozens of languages reading his work.	2001-12-04
US	49444977	R2I7UGVZ4NCXCB	0395489318	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring: Being the First Part of The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	2	2	N	N	An Enduring Classic; Tales, Adventure and Fellowship	I just finished reading, &quot;The Fellowship of the Ring,&quot; (FOTR) a few days ago. It was my second time and I think it is my favorite part of the Lord of the Rings (LOTR). Some of my favorite incidents happen here from, &quot;An Unexpected Party,&quot; where many a Hobbit gather for Bilbo's farewell party to, &quot;At the Sign of The Prancing Pony,&quot; a visit to a busy inn in the Hobbit town of Bree. Also, the chapters, \\"Many Meetings,\\" and, \\"The Council of Elrond,\\" are rare times of joy and rest where many different races meet for the Council of Elrond. Then, of course, there are the climatic chapters, \\"A Journey in the Dark,\\" and, \\"The Bridge of Kazad-dum.\\" and, \\"The Breaking of the Fellowship.\\"<br />What I like about the novel is this is where one learns the background of the tale; where did the Ring come from, what does it do and where has it been all these centuries? Tolkien creates a feeling that FOTR stands in a long tradition; the world of the novel is already thousands of years old by the time we visit it. After one finishes the entirety of the Lord of the Rings, \\"The Silmarillion,\\" provides the creation myth and the ancient history of the Elves and the other races of Middle-Earth; Tolkien worked on it his whole life.<br />There is also a great feeling of ambience; from the way Tolkien describes geography to the description of buildings and the physical description of characters. On a deeper level, one has the feeling that the current age is about to set and another age is about to rise. The mysterious, powerful, joyous Elves of old are about to fade away and leave Middle-Earth (where Tolkien set his story) forever and Men will takeover and so begin the Fourth Age.<br />The story is suspenseful, as the small company of Hobbits sets out from their sheltered homeland called the Shire to far off Rivendell, just west of the Misty Mountains. All along the way, they are followed by the Black Riders who seek to recover the Ring from Frodo (the Hobbit who carries it) and return it to its evil Master. At times, Frodo is tempted to use the power of the Ring even though he knows that it is evil. At Bree, the company meets with Strider; who wears&quot;[a] travel-stained cloak of heavy dark-green cloth was drawn close about him, and in spite of the heat of the room he wore a good that overshadowed his face; but the gleam of his eyes could be seen as he watched the hobbits.&quot;<br />They all journey to Rivendell, where the many tales of old are told and the Council of Elrond is called to decide the fate of the Ring. The decision is made and a Fellowship made to guide Frodo; Merry, Sam, Pippin (his original Hobbit companions), Legolas (an Elf of Mirkwood), Gimli (a Dwarf of the Lonely Mountain), Boromir (Man of Gondor), Strider, and Gandalf the Grey (a wizard) set out with Frodo. They set out to cross the Misty Mountains, but defeated by snow and weather, decide to turn back and enter the Mountain. The Mountain used to be a grand palace of Dwarves and is sung of in their songs.<br />I can only encourage you to read this book before the movie comes out. While the movie does look quite good, novel-film conversion is never perfect and the book is better than the film nearly every time, so read the book first. I set a goal to re-read the entire epic before the films arrive.carries it) and return it to its evil Master. At times, Frodo is tempted to use the power of the Ring even though he knows that it is evil. At Bree, the company meets with Strider; who wears&quot;[a] travel-stained cloak of heavy dark-green cloth was drawn close about him, and in spite of the heat of the room he wore a good that overshadowed his face; but the gleam of his eyes could be seen as he watched the hobbits.&quot;<br />They all journey to Rivendell, where the many tales of old are told and the Council of Elrond is called to decide the fate of the Ring. The decision is made and a Fellowship made to guide Frodo; Merry, Sam, Pippin (his original Hobbit companions), Legolas (an Elf of Mirkwood), Gimli (a Dwarf of the Lonely Mountain), Boromir (Man of Gondor), Strider, and Gandalf the Grey (a wizard) set out with Frodo. They set out to cross the Misty Mountains, but defeated by snow and weather, decide to turn back and enter the Mountain. The Mountain used to be a grand palace of Dwarves and is sung of in their songs.<br />I can only encourage you to read this book before the movie comes out. While the movie does look quite good, novel-film conversion is never perfect and the book is better than the film nearly every time, so read the book first. I set a goal to re-read the entire epic before the films arrive.	2001-11-25
US	49444977	R3LP4S1Y646ISZ	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Tale of heroism, good, evil and a small person	This is a tale of gold, dragon, Elves and the wonder of it all. After reading the book for the third time, I must say it is still enjoyable. The book serves as a stand-alone novel or as a prelude to, &quot;The Lord of the Rings.&quot; (LOTR)<br />Tolkien crafts an interesting world peopled with Dwarves, Hobbits, Men, Elves and others. The Hobbits are a race of comfort-loving people about 2-4 feet in height. If there is one thing they like it is peace, quiet and good food. Adventure and travel to far-off places is something they would really rather avoid if they can.<br />Bilbo Baggins is one such Hobbit and he had lived 50 years in good comfort and does not wish to change that. Then, Gandalf (a wizard) arrives and invites him on an adventure with a company of Dwarves. Bilbo is initially fearful and dismissive of the whole affair and then gradually become a leader of sorts of the company.<br />The style is easy to follow and the story is straightforward with some twists. Of the two books, I must state my preference for LOTR. The complexity of the world in which the novels are placed (Middle-Earth) that is merely hinted at in, \\"The Hobbit,\\" is much more developed in LOTR.<br />The book is good in the old-fashioned sense of good story telling; there are no political agendas here but rather simply courage and the virtues of old. It is refreshing to read a book of battle, heroism, good and evil in our times of moral confusion and weakness. \\"The Hobbit,\\" is good for children and adults; adults will probably appreciate LOTR more though.	2001-11-18
US	49444977	R2F6VAMQLZ47PO	0801038227	617426571	Christian Apologetics	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Standard Apologetics book; critiques other views	When I think of American apologetics, three major names come to mind: William Lane Craig, Norman L. Geisler, and J.P. Moreland. Together, they could be said to comprise the &quot;apologetic dream team,&quot; of America.<br />Apologetics is the branch of theology/philosophy that seeks to provide a logical and rational defense of Christianity against all other rivals.<br />To preface my review, I would like to distinguish between two types of apologetics. Negative apologetics is concerned with showing that opposing (i.e. non-Christian) worldviews or ways of understanding reality are false. Positive apologetics seeks to provide evidence and arguments that directly argue for the truth of Christianity.<br />In this volume, it seems that something like 70% of the book is spent on showing opposing views are false. In this regard, I think Geisler's evaluation of atheism is very well done (Geisler summarizes his section by saying that most atheistic critiques of Christianity or arguments for atheism are either self-defeating or can be turned into arguments for Christianity). However, in our world, people are much more &quot;cautious&quot; and prefer to stay away from the so-called extremes (i.e. theism: the belief that a personal God exists. atheism: the belief that God(s) do not exist) and choose agnosticism. Geisler provides a very through critique of agnosticism and shows that it is intellectually bankrupt.<br />There are three Parts to the book:<br />Methodology (approx. 35% of content)<br />Theistic Apologetics (approx. 29% of content)<br />Christian Apologetics (approx. 30% of content)<br />The Methodology section is about forming an adequate test for truth. This was an unusual section and it seemed to be unnecessary to spend so much time on it. A brief discussion (i.e. 20 pages) ought to be sufficient. Geisler's two tests for truth are very uncommon; unaffirmability as a test for falsity and undeniability as a test for truth. He rejects most of the better truth tests (e.g. combinationalism) for numerous reasons, one of the most common being that the test fails to establish one view over all others. However, this section did have good critiques of skepticism, agnosticism, and fideism; this is the most useful part of this section.<br />The Theistic Apologetics section was probably the best in the book, in my opinion. Geisler surveys and evaluates the following worldviews:<br />Deism<br />Pantheism<br />Panentheism<br />Atheism<br />Theism<br />Geisler offers several reasons to reject the first four options, however I think it is unfair to exclude the first three simply because they are not theism. To me, this is blatant question begging. I thought Geisler was trying to establish the rational view rather than the Biblical view; there is a place for evaluating other \\"types\\" of God(s) but this is not that place. If one's objection to an argument amounts to, \\"He disagrees with Christianity therefore false,\\" then it is question begging. To be fair, Geisler does offer several other reasons to reject these philosophies.<br />The Christian Apologetics section was very typical. There was a defense offered for the general historical reliability of the New Testament, the authority of Jesus Christ (e.g. by His sinless life, miracles, resurrection), and the authority of the Bible.<br />Geisler could have written an actual conclusion to the book rather than just suddenly ending it; something that brought it all together, perhaps with some examples when apologetics has strengthened the faith of Christians or convinced skeptics or something along those lines; I have noticed this problem in other books as well. Several other reviewers have said that this is a common text book in the United States on this topic, so perhaps that explains the lack of the features common to a broader audience (e.g. introduction and conclusion). An annotated bibliography would have been useful as well; he included a mini \\"Further Reading\\" section at the end of every chapter but there were very few recent (i.e. 1970's to present) books listed.<br />I think that Moreland's, \\"Scaling the Secular City,\\" (see my review) is a better defense of Christianity; he spends more of his time arguing FOR Christianity and refutes the objections offered against those arguments.e were very few recent (i.e. 1970's to present) books listed.<br />I think that Moreland's, \\"Scaling the Secular City,\\" (see my review) is a better defense of Christianity; he spends more of his time arguing FOR Christianity and refutes the objections offered against those arguments.	2001-10-24
US	49444977	R10MIU1CYEIZF2	0801010500	918276133	Politically Correct Death: Answering the Arguments for Abortion Rights	Books	5	32	36	N	N	Pro-life is true. Case closed.	This book is probably one of the very best books available on the issue of abortion in America. I will have to join the chorus of reviewers who have applauded this fine book. The author, a Ph. D in philosophy, critiques 68 arguments for abortion rights (i.e. &quot;pro-choice) and systematically refutes them.<br />Professor J.P. Moreland said this about the book:<BR>For some time now we have needed a book that lays out and responds to the various pro-choice arguments in a detailed, systematic way. [This book] does this admirably... It is unique in combining a through catalog of the issues with a sophisticated response that remains accessible to the general reader.<br />As a brief side note, do not be put off by the negative reviews. The criticism is vague and often does not cite SPECIFIC pages or SPECIFIC arguments; I find such criticism difficult to believe (there are one or two exceptions to this though).<br />If you are pro-life, then reading this book is invaluable. If you are pro-choice, then you will find this book difficult, for the pro-choice view is hardly the given truth that it is billed to be. However, the author has requested substantive critiques, and has said (see Editorial Reviews for the author's comments) that he has not received them.<br />Beckwith evaluates MANY abortion rights arguments: <BR>Why don't pro-lifers adopt the babies they don't want aborted? Argument from 'no one knows when life begins,' Argument from privacy, Argument from the dangers of illegal abortion, argument from rape and incest and many of the others. This will help you in discussing the issue with other people, responding to newspaper article and even knowing how to critique professional philosophers that hold to the abortion rights position.<br />Beckwith also argues for the full humanity of the unborn. The pro-life position that Beckwith defends is as follows:<br />1. The unborn entity, from the moment of conception, is fully human.<BR>2. It is prima facie wrong to kill anentity which is fully human.<BR>3. Almost every act of abortion is intended to kill the unborn entity, an entity which is fully human.<BR>4. Therefore, almost every act of abortion is prima facie wrong.<BR>(Page 12)<br />Note that the position Beckwith defends is very precise and pro-lifers would do well to adopt his formulation of the argument.<br />The other parts of the book that do not evaluate abortion rights arguments or argue for the pro-life position are:<BR>Chapter 1: The Possibility of Moral Reasoning<BR>Chapter 2: Why Abortion on Demand Is Legal in America<br />Chapter 1 deals with the idea of reasoning in morality and shows that the idea of moral relativism (that there are no moral absolutes) is false. For more on relativism, see \\"Relativism: Feet Planted Firmly in Mid-Air,\\" by Francis Beckwith and Gregory Koukl (see my review).<br />Chapter 2 explains why abortion for any reason at all is currently legal through all nine months of pregnancy in the United States, contrary to those who claim that it is only legal until the first trimester (the first three months of pregnancy). <br />Also included are two interesting Socratic dialogues in which Socrates arrives to debate 1988 Democratic presidential candidate Michael Dukakis and another in which Socrates discusses Operation Rescue and civil disobedience.<br />The book has a bibliography and there are a total of 431 footnotes where Beckwith documents his facts, quotations and refers to other philosophers and their works.	2001-10-24
US	49444977	R2TUPNLI7L2NX7	0801038227	617426571	Christian Apologetics	Books	4	37	41	N	N	A Standard Apologetics book; critiques other views	When I think of American apologetics, three major names come to mind: William Lane Craig, Norman L. Geisler, and J.P. Moreland. Together, they could be said to comprise the &quot;apologetic dream team,&quot; of America. <br />Apologetics is the branch of theology/philosophy that seeks to provide a logical and rational defense of Christianity against all other rivals.<br />To preface my review, I would like to distinguish between two types of apologetics. Negative apologetics is concerned with showing that opposing (i.e. non-Christian) worldviews or ways of understanding reality are false. Positive apologetics seeks to provide evidence and arguments that directly argue for the truth of Christianity.<br />In this volume, it seems that something like 70% of the book is spent on showing opposing views are false. In this regard, I think Geisler's evaluation of atheism is very well done (Geisler summarizes his section by saying that most atheistic critiques of Christianity or arguments for atheism are either self-defeating or can be turned into arguments for Christianity). However, in our world, people are much more &quot;cautious&quot; and prefer to stay away from the so-called extremes (i.e. theism: the belief that a personal God exists. atheism: the belief that God(s) do not exist) and choose agnosticism. Geisler provides a very through critique of agnosticism and shows that it is intellectually bankrupt.<br />There are three Parts to the book: <BR>Methodology (approx. 35% of content)<BR>Theistic Apologetics (approx. 29% of content)<BR>Christian Apologetics (approx. 30% of content)<br />The Methodology section is about forming an adequate test for truth. This was an unusual section and it seemed to be unnecessary to spend so much time on it. A brief discussion (i.e. 20 pages) ought to be sufficient. Geisler's two tests for truth are very uncommon; unaffirmability as a test for falsity and undeniability as a test for truth. He rejects most of the better truth tests (e.g. combinationalism) for numerous reasons, one of the most common being that the test fails to establish one view over all others. However, this section did have good critiques of skepticism, agnosticism, and fideism; this is the most useful part of this section.<br />The Theistic Apologetics section was probably the best in the book, in my opinion. Geisler surveys and evaluates the following worldviews:<BR>Deism<BR>Pantheism<BR>Panentheism<BR>Atheism<BR>Theism<br />Geisler offers several reasons to reject the first four options, however I think it is unfair to exclude the first three simply because they are not theism. To me, this is blatant question begging. I thought Geisler was trying to establish the rational view rather than the Biblical view; there is a place for evaluating other \\"types\\" of God(s) but this is not that place. If one's objection to an argument amounts to, \\"He disagrees with Christianity therefore false,\\" then it is question begging. To be fair, Geisler does offer several other reasons to reject these philosophies.<br />The Christian Apologetics section was very typical. There was a defense offered for the general historical reliability of the New Testament, the authority of Jesus Christ (e.g. by His sinless life, miracles, resurrection), and the authority of the Bible.<br />Geisler could have written an actual conclusion to the book rather than just suddenly ending it; something that brought it all together, perhaps with some examples when apologetics has strengthened the faith of Christians or convinced skeptics or something along those lines; I have noticed this problem in other books as well. Several other reviewers have said that this is a common text book in the United States on this topic, so perhaps that explains the lack of the features common to a broader audience (e.g. introduction and conclusion). An annotated bibliography would have been useful as well; he included a mini \\"Further Reading\\" section at the end of every chapter but there were very few recent (i.e. 1970's to present) books listed.<br />I think that Moreland's, \\"Scaling the Secular City,\\" (see my review) is a better defense of Christianity; he spends more of his time arguing FOR Christianity and refutes the objections offered against those arguments.	2001-10-17
US	49444977	R26QIZCM6XIM7C	0140094385	539733955	Amusing Ourselves to Death: Public Discourse in the Age of Show Business	Books	4	43	45	N	N	Technology and philosophy; history and analysis	I agree with some other reviewers that Postman repeats himself occasionally, some of his information is dated and that some of his conclusions are obvious.<br />That said, I think the book is very interesting, in particular, by showing the historical progression from typography to television in America.<br />One of Postman's constant themes is to contrast Aldous Huxley's, &quot;Brave New World,&quot; (1936) and George Orwell's, &quot;1984,&quot; (1948). Orwell's novel is probably the more famous of the two; Government suppression of people, big Brother, the Party, banned books and the like are the reigning ideas. However, in Huxley's novel, people are uninterested in truth, pacified by pleasure and do not want to read. Postman rightly says Orwell's vision is restricted to countries such as China, North Korea, and the former Soviet Union. The danger for Western democracies is Huxley's world. <br />If you have not read these two novels, I would encourage you to read them. Cultural references to, &quot;1984,&quot; abound and, &quot;Brave New World,&quot; although not as well known is equally important.<br />Postman starts by discussing what media does to us in our understanding of truth, ideas and the like (i.e. epistemology). The philosophical impact of television vs. print is one of the most important points in the book. It serves as a specific example to illustrate the principle that the medium (or technology) is NOT neutral; certain types of media encourage certain habits of the mind.<br />The historical discussion covers the late 17th century to the mid 19th century. In this period, print was the only medium (besides oral communication) to be used in America. The result was that authors were famous, politicians were known by their WRITING, there were unprecedented levels of literacy and education was wide spread and popular.<br />Postman gives one particularly interesting example from a series of debates between Abraham Lincoln and Stephen A. Douglas in 1858. Their opening statements were three hours, and there were lengthy involved rebuttals. That the public could listen to and understand hours of complex political argumentation tell us much about the audience of that time.<br />Some of Postman's conclusions on the implications print culture:<br />- rationality encouraged<br />- characterized by a coherent, orderly arrangement of facts and ideas<br />- advertising appealed to understanding, not emotions<br />All this is contrasted with the development of the telegraphy and the photography in the late 19th century. It was now possible to have advertisements that had no propositional content and decontexualize information and transport small pieces of information very rapidly. <br />The philosophical implications of this are great. With the spreading of much irrelevant information, impotent information and information that is incoherent, the ability to develop a worldview is damaged (worldview: a comprehensive way of understanding all of reality).<br />The second section of the book examines the implications of television for religion, politics and education. It is interesting but again, somewhat dated. One of the best points he makes over and over again is that television is very good at entertainment however, it cannot be made to be a vehicle for serious discourse. Television, as a medium, with frequent commercial breaks, a focus on style over substance etc cannot be used to properly discuss important issues.<br />It is unfortunate that Postman could not update the book to include e-mail, the Internet and the other new media that have been developed since the mid 1980's.<br />I enjoyed reading the history sections and the parts of other chapters that discussed the philosophical consequences of using different media (primarily print vs. electronic) most in the book.	2001-10-11
US	49444977	R1Y41I61EH1Z7N	0830815775	681815436	Body & Soul: Human Nature & the Crisis in Ethics	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Bravo! The existence of the soul defended!	This is one of the more difficult books that I have read recently. Sections of the book can be difficult and require focus; this is NOT beach reading.<br />The authors' intended audience:<br />&quot;We have chosen to write the book at what we consider to be a fairly high academic level because we are convinced the view of a human person we affirm must be articulated and defended at that level for it to gain a hearing both within the Christian community and in the secular academic setting. Still, we hope a nonspecialist will be able to gain much from the pages that follow.&quot; (page 14)<br />There are one or two sections in the book that defend the existence of an immaterial soul from the Bible (against those Christian thinkers who deny it) however; this book is not primarily an explanation/analysis of Scripture. As the authors themselves state, 'In this work we have attempted to make a case for the view of a human person that is both consistent with biblical teaching and that makes philosophical sense.' (page 343)<br />To skeptics of the existence of the soul, to those who would argue that science has rendered the concept false, to those who argue that the concept of the immaterial soul is a foreign Greek concept that has nothing to do with the Bible, read this book. Moreland and Rae present a very strong case for the soul (their particular version of this: Thomistic substance dualism), they refute or significantly weaken most of the commonly offered critiques of their view and refute or critique the views that compete against theirs.<br />There are 521 footnotes spread over 345 pages of text; averaging roughly 50 footnotes per chapter. I really liked this aspect of the book; the authors would frequently refer to other relevant literature and refer the reader to investigate it if interested. <br />The book is divided into two sections:<br />Part 1: Metaphysical Reflections on Human Personhood (about 66% of the book)<BR>Part 2: Ethical Reflections on Human Personhood<br />The Chapters:<BR>1. Establishing a Framework for Approaching Human Personhood<BR>2. Human Persons as Substances or Property-Things<BR>3. Human Persons in Naturalistic &amp; Complementarian Perspectives<BR>4. Substance Dualism &amp; the Human Person: Free Agency<BR>5. Substance Dualism &amp; the Human Person: Personal Identity<BR>6. Substance Dualism &amp; the Body: Heredity, DNA &amp; the Soul<br />7. The Moral &amp; Metaphysical Status of the Unborn: Abortion &amp; Fetal Research<BR>8. Reproductive Technologies in Substance-Dualist Perspective<BR>9. Genetic Technologies &amp; Human Cloning<BR>10. Euthanasia, Physician-Assisted Suicide &amp; the Care of Persons at the End of Life<br />Chapters 1-3 lay out all the necessary philosophical distinctions (this section is probably the most difficult to follow, but it is worth it. Many of the concepts used here come up again and again later in the book) to discuss personhood. The relevant philosophical options of personhood are laid out and explained<br />Chapters 4-5 constitute a defense of the substance dualism view; which basically says that in addition to physical bodies, human beings have a non-physical essence (i.e. soul). Chapter 4 argues that only substance dualism can make sense of the reality of human free will. Chapter 5 argues that the fact that you are the same person at ages 3, 10, 30, and 50 (this is the briefest way to attempt to explain their arguments) is only adequately explained by substance dualism. Taken together, the authors argue that only substance dualism can make sense of the moral and legal responsibility that we intuitively know we have.<br />Chapter 5 discusses the relationship of the soul to the body, specifically DNA. The authors persuasively argue that personhood is NOT reducible to DNA or the body; the authors discuss the Human Genome Project and other relevant scientific discoveries and experiments.<br />The Ethical Reflections section shows the implications of concluding that substance dualism is true. It is shown that many debates (especially abortion) surrounding life and death issues are, at their most basic level, based on ones view of personhood.<br />My only disappointment was that the authors did not discuss how the view that the soul does not exist developed, who the originators of the idea were, the relevant philosophical ideas that led to this conclusion; basically some historical background would have been helpful.<br />All in all, this is a difficult book but it will improve and clarify your thinking not just in metaphysics but also in the raging moral debates of the 21st century.	2001-10-03
US	49444977	R3UM4GV5V7OEF6	0679413294	624438397	On Liberty and Utilitarianism (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Important for political philosophy and ethics	So many people in our modern political discourse will say, &quot;I'm not hurting anybody,&quot; or, &quot;We both consented to do this and we're not hurting anybody, you cannot interfere.&quot; These ideas stem from an essay written in 1859, probably not one of the most brilliant or original but an important statement in the history of political philosophy. <br />Background<br />I think Isaiah Berlin's Introduction is very helpful and helps one to understand the underlying philosophy that informed Mill. Mill was a major advocate of tolerance; but in nearly a century and a half since Mill's time, the meaning of this term has changed a great deal.<br />&quot;Toleration, Professor Butterfield has told us, implies a certain disrespect. I tolerate your absurd beliefs and your foolish acts, though I know them to be absurd and foolish. Mill would, I think, have agreed. He believed that to hold an opinion deeply is to throw our feelings into it. He once declared that when we deeply care, we must dislike those who hold the opposite views.&quot; (xvii)<br />Mill was, &quot;... a Victorian agnostic who was uncomfortable with atheism and regard religion as something that was exclusively the individual's own affair. &quot; (xxxvii)<br />Mill looks at the question of how far the State or society can limit the liberty of its citizens. Mill's answer is that the only limit that can be allowed is when an individual harms another; aside from this, the individual can do whatever s/he wants. In the late 1950's, Mill's thought was revived to justify the repeal of anti-homosexuality laws in Great Britain and recently the magazine, &quot;The Economist,&quot; applied Mill's thought to say that &quot;recreational&quot; drugs should be legalized. Mill thought that the only possible rational reason that could be given to restrict individual liberties is that there is only one way to live life and all opposing views are spreading falsehoods (this is what Mill is arguing against). Mill's response is simply that people are fallible and therefore cannot have the whole truth. Thus, society has to allow differing viewpoints, diversity and people to exercise their liberty (with the restriction that it not harm other people).<br />On Liberty Chapter 1: Introduction<br />Mill outlines his thesis and explains what the issues are. His point in brief is, &quot;That the only purpose for which power can be rightfully exercised over any member of a civilised community, against his will, is to prevent harm to others. His own good, either physical or moral, is not a sufficient reason.&quot; (pages 12-13)<br />Chapter 2: Of the Liberty of Thought and Discussion<br />Here, Mill defends the ABSOLUTE right of freedom of belief and expression. Mill discusses the idea that society's beliefs are often (i.e. 99% of the time) fallible and thus opposing views must be allowed. I liked Mill's view on conflicting ideas; if an idea is shown to be true because it has defeated all its rivals, one can be much more confident of it than if one were to suppress all other rivals.<br />Chapter 3: Of Individuality, as one of the Elements of Well-being<br />In this chapter, Mill encourages diversity; it is good for society that there be many lifestyles.<br />Chapter 4: Of the Limits to the Authority of Society over the Individual<br />Mill's defends the idea he explained in the Introduction. He rests the idea on a distinction of &quot;other-regarding actions&quot; vs. &quot;self-regarding actions.&quot; I doubt that such a distinction can easily be made and if it could be made, I think, the &quot;self-regarding actions,&quot; would be surprising small.<br />Chapter 5: Applications<br />Mill discusses some of the possible applications of his political philosophy; some of his examples are alcohol regulation, the sale of poisons and education. One of the most interesting points he makes is between two common ways politics govern a problematic issue; either an outright ban or regulation and taxes to make the acquiring the good or service difficult. Mill makes the point that the difference is only one of degree and not of kind; if an outright ban cannot be supported in principle, then the support for regulation/taxation to limit availability likewise loses support.<br />Utilitarianism<br />This is an ethical philosophy based on consequences; in Mill's formulation, whatever produces the greatest happiness for the greatest number of people is moral or morally desirable. He spends much of his essay defending the philosophy against opponents and makes some legitimate points. Mill's utilitarianism is a collective theory, not an individual one; one must attack to produce consequences that maximize the happiness of all and minimize suffering and pain. The main problem with utilitarianism is that it seeks to reduce morality to non-moral ends; morality is an instrument to produce x non-moral quality (e.g. happiness, peace etc). Also, utilitarianism could justify acts that seem obviously immoral such as oppression of minorities (it would serve the interests of the greatest number, the majority, after all), punishing an innocent man (to provide a scapegoat for people) and that no act is wrong in of itself. In the essay, Mill does not, as far as I could tell, provide a clear definition of happiness, so it is somewhat difficult to follow him.<br />If somebody can suggest a thoughtful critique of, &quot;On Liberty,&quot;, other than Lord Devlin, I would be interested in that. Also, a more through critique of utilitarianism would be helpful as well.	2001-09-17
US	49444977	R3RI1W5HIL8DBN	0801062225	498968532	Scaling the Secular City: A Defense of Christianity	Books	5	109	119	N	N	Excellent defense of Christianity!	This is one of the best books I have ever read on the topic of defending Christianity rationally. That said, for a Christian new to this topic, a more entry-level book would be more helpful (e.g. Lee Strobel's two books: The Case for Christ, The Case for Faith).<br />The book is written to an educated audience and parts of it are difficult. The most difficult part was Moreland's discussion of the kalam cosmological argument and the mathematical part evidence therein. Moreland is an excellent scholar; in total, there are 359 footnotes where Moreland documents arguments, refers to other philosophers and so on. There is also an excellent bibliography at the end where Moreland classes the books under three categories: Basic, Intermediate, and Advanced.<br />Moreland covers what one would expect to find in an apologetics book:<BR>The Cosmological Argument<BR>The Design Argument<BR>The Historicity of the New Testament<BR>The Resurrection of Jesus<br />Much of this material can be found in hundreds of other books. In his chapter on the Cosmological Argument, Moreland focuses on a specific form of it, recently revived by William Lane Craig, namely the kalam Cosmological argument (in brief: If the universe had a beginning, then it was either caused or not-caused, if caused, then the cause is either personal or not-personal). In the Design Argument, Moreland covers different forms of Design, some of which are untouched, even if evolution is true (e.g. Design as Order, Purpose, Simplicity, Complexity, Beauty, Sense and Cognition, Information and Cosmic Constants).<br />Moreland's defense of the Resurrection is similar in many respects to Craig's; see my reviews of, &quot;Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Fiction,&quot; and, &quot;Will the real Jesus please stand up?&quot;<br />However, Moreland has several chapters that make his book stand out from the crowd: <br />God and the Argument from the Mind<BR>God and the Meaning of Life<BR>Science and Christianity <BR>Four Final Issues<br/>In the Mind chapter, Moreland argues for and defends the idea of substantial, immaterial human souls or minds to the existence of an original Mind or Soul (i.e. God). In the Meaning chapter, Moreland looks at the ethics dimension of the question, examines the options (e.g. Nihilism, optimistic humanism, immanent purpose and Christianity), and concludes that Christianity is not only the most rational but also provides more meaning than the competing views.<br />In the Science chapter, Moreland discusses philosophy of science and the creation/evolution debate. Often, there is an idea that either science and theology are working in totally different spheres of reality or that science should dictate to theology what it can and cannot do. I think Moreland makes an important advance here; his approach takes both science and the Bible seriously. He concludes the chapter with a discussion of evolution and offers a serious of reasons why creation science IS NOT a religion.<br />In the last chapter, he looks at four final issues; the problem of the visibility of God, the religious experience argument for God, the objection that God is merely a psychological projection and relativism. To explain the visibility problem is the view that sense God cannot be seen, one cannot know He exists; Moreland rightly exposes this as, crude empiricism. The author offers two fairly convincing arguments based on religious experience; the reader must keep in mind that even if you reject this argument, there are numerous other objective arguments that are objective in nature. Psychologists and sociologists originally came up with the idea that God is a projection of the mind, or a fulfillment of psychological needs, obviously forgot that philosophy is not their realm. Moreland responds by saying that to explain the origin of the belief does not show whether one is justified in believing it (to discredit an idea solely by pointing to its origin is to commit the genetic fallacy), and Moreland also questions the premise that people project God. Relativism is the view that there are no universal moral rules that apply to all people, all cultures and all times; for more on this topic, see my review of, Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air.<br />Throughout the book, Moreland considers objections to his arguments and systematically disables them. He does not make up objections, but footnotes specific books written by advocates of different philosophies. To those that claim that Christianity is intellectually bankrupt, irrational or whatever, you have a challenge to deal with. Moreland shows the intellectual strength of Christianity and makes it difficult to dismiss Christianity casually.<br />I would highly recommend this book to college and university students and all those who long for a robust defense of the faith.	2001-09-16
US	49444977	R3FI12D8BS7K2E	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Bryson wanders Europe; like talking to a traveler	I first heard of Bill Bryson when someone mentioned him to me in a conversation. So, off I went to the bookstore, looked around, and thought, &quot;The Europe one sounds good.&quot; I have been to some of the places Bryson visits (Amsterdam, Paris, Belgium, Germany - but not the part he went to, and Istanbul) so; I wondered how we would compare notes.<br />A comment about the other reviews here; Bryson is accused of xenophobia (Fear or contempt of that which is foreign, especially of strangers or foreign peoples) and other such politically incorrect attitudes. However, I think such designations are a bit of an over reaction. I do agree with one reviewer that there seems to be some gratuitous swearing and this could have been scaled back.<br />I found it interesting when Bryson visits places that are probably not on non-European's Travel hit list; Norway, Sweden, Denmark and Yugoslavia. However, it is interesting to see what he thinks about these places. In this book, one gets a sense of what it is like to go traveling; one must constantly find places to stay and places to eat. The downside to this is that Bryson calls nearly every place he stays at very expensive; one wonders if he is comparing it to the USA... At one point, he recounts a familiar (to me anyway) travelers dilemma; one travels to experience a different culture, yet one still wants pieces of home for comfort (whether it me English-language television, recognizable food, air conditioning etc) and to acquire these comforts is often prohibitively expensive.<br />Some of my favorite parts were in Yugoslavia (he went there before all the wars, bombing etc wrecked the country), Italy and Scandinavia. A common problem that I have experienced in certain parts of Europe is communication. I have undying admiration for the Dutch; everybody in the Netherlands speaks 3 or 4 languages. I am fluent in English and to lesser degrees in French and German. Yet, I think it better to try to communicate in the local language than always blunder around in English. Sometimes strange things happen; once I was in a small town in Turkey, and in not a few shops, I met people who knew German.<br />I also agree that Bryson is fun to read and reading this reminds me of meeting people on the road and swapping stories. I have just started reading his book about Australia (title: In a sunburned country) and I think it is much better researched (there is a bibliography), the writing seems better but perhaps it is somewhat less funny (in the course sense of the word).	2001-09-03
US	49444977	RZ7TGKKUO1RVS	014016622X	546056497	Nuremberg : Infamy on Trial	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Readable, fair look at the Nuremberg Trials	The book is a readable, non-technical walk through the preparation, the trial itself (Prosecution and Defense) and the Aftermath. It is interesting to see the legal problems that had to be solved; such as which legal system to use (Anglo-American v.s. Continental) and the problem of ex post facto law (roughly the problem that the Nazis had done evil acts but there were no laws in place that prohibited genocide etc; they were being accused of breaking laws that did not exist). This was also the first time that such a large simultaneous translation project was launched.<br />Persico's approach is good; he shows you the court, the bickerings of the lawyers, judges and prisoners. One gets a sense of what the participants undertook. One of the most interesting parts of the trial was how Hermann Göring hijacked the court proceedings and proved a formidable opponent to prosecutors. Reading about the resources given to the defense, I think, makes one realize that the Nazis were given every resource to defend themselves; secretaries, translations of all the Prosecution documents, translators, German lawyers (any that the defendants wanted) and salaries (paid by the Allies) for all the staff.<br />One of Persico's most perceptive comments on the significance of the trials was this: &quot;Nuremberg may have been flawed law, but it was satisfying justice.&quot; (page 440)<br />The question of the good Nuremberg did for law is still debatable. One of the aims of the trials; outlawing/punishing wars of aggression, has yet to be prosecuted again. However, crimes against humanity are being punished by ICTY (International Criminal Tribunal for the former Yugoslavia).<br />Justice Jackson (he led the American prosecution team and was the most prominent prosecutor) , this was his Opening Address:<br />The privilege of opening the first trial in history for crimes against the peace of the world imposes a grave responsibility. The wrongs which we seek to condemn and punish have been socalculated, so malignant, and so devastating, that civilization cannot tolerate their being ignored, because it cannot survive their being repeated. That four great nations, flushed with victory and stung with injury stay the hand of vengeance and voluntarily submit their captive enemies to the judgment of the law is one of the most significant tributes that Power has ever paid to Reason.	2001-09-03
US	49444977	R132FYRK791AQY	0310230152	634600647	Moral Choices: An Introduction to Ethics	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Great Christian introduction to ethics	I found this book when I was browsing through a bookstore in Washington DC a few weeks ago. There were recommendations by Francis J. Beckwith and J.P. Moreland on the book; needless to say these are some of the most learned men in the Christian intellectual world. The book is about ethics (the process of determining right and wrong) and morality (the actual content of right and wrong). Scott B. Rae, in addition to being an academic ethicist (and a Christian committed to Scripture), serves on several California hospital ethics committees. This is apparent by the way he begins many of his chapters; he crafts a real-life scenario where making the moral decision requires some serious thought. <br />The theoretical part of the book is clear and important; knowing why people have specific moral views is as important as its resolution. I think quoting Professor Beckwith's comments on the book might be illustrative: 'In fact, there's not a better book anywhere that so clearly ties ethical theory and moral practice.' <br />The book starts with four background chapters: 'Christian Ethics,' 'Major Figures in the History of Ethics,' 'Ethical Systems and Ways of Moral Reasoning,' and, 'Making Ethical Decisions.' For a person new to the study of ethics and tired of media moral reasoning, these chapters were refreshing. In the, &quot;Christian Ethics,&quot; chapter, in addition to examining Scripture, Rae makes the conclusion that Christians who use the Bible can still in good conscience use natural law (this is moral information from general revelation; that is the world and Creation, rather than special revelation, the Bible). He makes the point that general revelation morality (i.e. natural law) and special revelation morality (i.e. the Bible) are usually in agreement though the arbiter in rare cases of disagreement should be Scripture. The importance of natural law for the Christian is not to be underestimated. Granted that the Christian wants to be able to influence his/her surrounding culture for Christ, promoting justice, order etc., natural law means that a Christian can make a moral argument without quoting the Bible or compromising the Bible. <br />The sections on the history of ethics and ethical systems are helpful both to the person who wants to simply learn about ethics, those who want to understand the reasoning people use in the public forum and so on. About half of the book is dedicated to the big moral issues of our day: Abortion, Reproductive Technologies, Genetic Technologies and Human Cloning, Physician-Assisted Suicide and Euthanasia, Capital Punishment, Sexual Ethics, The Morality of War and Legislating Morality. <br />The general approach that Rae takes is to use a scenario at the beginning of the chapter, offer arguments for and against, evaluate these arguments, look at Scripture, and then offer a conclusion. Also, each section has footnotes and a, 'Further Reading,' list. <br />One of Rae comments from the, 'Sexual Ethics,' chapter could serve as a reason for all Christians to carefully consider how to present their moral case in the public forum: <br />'Making the biblical case against homosexuality persuasive to a secular audience that has little regard for biblical authority is difficult, particularly in view of the aggressive gay rights movement and a growing societal tolerance for homosexuality. But that does not mean further attempts to make the Bible's teachings on homosexuality persuasive to the broader culture should not be undertaken.' (page 237) I think this book is a good starting place to help lay people understand ethics and how to carefully think through these issues and the process we go through in coming to moral conclusions.	2001-08-28
US	49444977	R3SU4753X6ZOSX	0812927907	816297229	Forced Exit: The Slippery Slope from Assisted Suicide to Legalized Murder	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Detailed examination of euthanasia and assissted suicide	I am currently investigating several different ethical/public policy issues: homosexuality (i.e. advocating the behavior in schools, marriage), abortion, and euthanasia.<br />The author of this book is the lead lawyer of the International Task Force on Euthanasia and Assisted Suicide, an organization that opposes all forms of euthanasia and assisted suicide.<br />One of the changes that has made this discussion meaningful is the discussion between humane care and medical treatment. Humane care would include food, heat, washing etc; the basics, if you will. Medical treatment would be drugs, surgery and so on. In some recent US Supreme Court case, certain types of humane treatment has been reclassified as medical treatment (e.g. water and food). The significance of the change is this; patients cannot refuse humane treatment but they can refuse medical treatments, at a certain point (or have others refuse medical treatments on their behalf). <br />There are sections that document the development of euthanasia in the United States through court cases and attempted legislation (in the 1930's and the present). <br />There are sections on the Holland called, &quot;Dutch Treat,&quot; is particularly good. Holland is the only country that where euthanasia is widely available (Holland made it totally legal on November 28, 2000). Smith shows the progression in Holland, how the guidelines are routinely violated and so on. One of the scary problems is INvoluntary euthanasia: 1,040 people (an average of 3 per day) died from involuntary euthanasia, meaning that doctors actively killed these patients without the patients' knowledge or consent.<br />Smith shows that the euthanasia agenda would endanger the disabled, the ill, the elderly, those with low education, minorities etc... In Holland, there is universal health care for all paid for through taxes, in the United States it is partially private and partially public.<br />Smith shows the two philosophies that at conflict in the current debate. The anti-euthanasia proponents hold to the equality-of-human-life ethics: \\"that each of us be considered of each inherent moral worth, and it makes the preservation and protection of human life society's first priority.\\" (page xxi) This is contrasted with the quality-of-human-life ethic, which gives human beings value (protection etc...) not because they are human but only if they possess certain qualities. I think that Smith wisely chooses to examine Peter Singer as the principal philosopher of the movement; one of the interesting things was the reaction of critics to the book. In America and Britain, the book was warmly welcomed and highly praised. However, in Germany, \\"... Singer has... been severely criticized and demonstrated against in Germany, a country with an acute memory of the horrors can result from adopting such values as his.\\" (page 23).<br />The book also exposes the myth that all persons who oppose euthanasia are religious fanatics, from atheist Nat Hentoff, \\"I can't base my opposition to euthanasia on religion. I am an atheist!\\" (page 202). Also, \\"As Rita Marker, director of the International Anti-Euthanasia Task Force, notes, `Legislation that prohibits sales clerks from stealing company profits also coincides with religious beliefs, but it would be absurd with the separation of church and state.'\\" (page 201)<br />One last note, one of the main reasons that euthanasia is encouraged is that the suffering is too great etc. Smith shows that most doctors are very poorly trained in pain treatment and that hospice care is rarely promoted. Smith shows that almost all pain can be treated even advanced bone cancer etc... <br />The book was excellent and I appreciate the detailed examples, history and court cases that Smith writes about.	2001-08-22
US	49444977	RDAXKBKTI8URQ	0684823799	759467388	Miracles: A Preliminary Study (C.S. Lewis Classics)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A philosophical defence of miracles	This is the fourth Christian C.S. Lewis book that I have read (the others: Mere Christianity, The Abolition of Man and The Screwtape Letters). This is typical Lewis style; a common sense approach to the writing that makes me imagine Lewis in a conversation saying something like, &quot;Come now, let's be reasonable.&quot; <br />In the introduction, Lewis says what his subject matter will be. He notes that before one can look at historical evidence, one must settle the question philosophically (i.e. whether miracles are possible). If someone is persuaded that miracles, per se, are impossible then no amount of evidence will convince. So, it you are looking for argumentation regarding specific miracles look else (I suggest William Lane Craig; his defence of the Resurrection is the best available).<br />I think there are better, shorter and more forceful defences of miracles but this book is not too bad. Other places to look for a defence of miracles: The Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics by Norman Geisler and Reasonable Faith by William Lane Craig.<br />Lewis' first task is to define naturalism (I think he does a muddled job but the gist of it is: the doctrine that the world can be understood in scientific terms without recourse to spiritual or supernatural explanations or that only the physical world [i.e. Nature] exists). Lewis refutes this by showing that immaterial objects exist namely Reason (that is to say both the existence and validity of logic and the part of human beings that performs acts of reasoning) and the existence of morality or ethics (i.e. When somebody suggests that I ought not to sit in his seat in the theatre, he is not simply making an emotional statement, he is saying that I have violated a rule. The fact that the language of ethics, &quot;ought&quot; &quot;should&quot; etc are meaningful shows this).<br />He deals with the objection that miracles are against the laws of nature or that experience in general is against miracles happening. Lewis also deals with the objection that miracles were believed and wrote about millennia ago because the people were simple-minded, misunderstood the world and lacked modern science. Lewis also deals with the &quot;problem&quot; of language (i.e. the literal &quot;v.s.&quot; metaphorical uses). The remaining portion of the book is on different topics...<br />For example the chapter: Christianity and &quot;Religion&quot;, Lewis compares Christianity with pantheism. He says that modern people hold to pantheism because they think it is a sophisticated belief that doesn't have all the old-fashioned mythology et al that theism has. Lewis then goes on to show that merely because pantheism is easy or popular is no reason to accept it as true. In one of his insights, near the end of the chapter he says: <br />&quot;Man are reluctant to pass over from the notion of an abstract and negative deity to the living God. I do not wonder. Here lies the deepest tap=root of Pantheism and of the objection to traditional imagery. It was hated not, at bottom, because it pictured Him as a man but because it pictured Him as king, or even as warrior. The Pantheist's God does nothing, demands nothing. He is there if you wish for him like a book on a shelf. He will not pursue you.&quot; (page 124)<br />Lewis then looks at the issue of how probable miracles are. He then has a chapter entitled, &quot;The Grand Miracle,&quot; which is on the Incarnation, the Resurrection and the Ascension. However, it does not seem to be an argument as such to me, rather it is an explanation and discussion of what the Incarnation is. This is fine, but I don't think this sort of material is appropriate in work that is setting out to DEFEND Christianity rather than simply explain it. He also has a chapter on the general Resurrection. <br />The book ends with an admonition to keep Naturalism out of our minds. I agree with Lewis that it is defeated as a philosophy; the problem is that it can easily gain a foothold in our minds and before we know we are thinking with naturalistic assumptions.<br />This is a fairly good book but sometimes I wondered while reading it, \\"Where are you going with this, Lewis,\\" or, \\"How is this relevant?\\"	2001-08-11
US	49444977	R2W3C7BQBTV6OS	1885211554	168837340	Not So Funny When It Happened: The Best of Travel Humor and Misadventure (Travelers' Tales)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not so funny! A few gems	I bought this book in the Toronto (Canada) airport, right before I departed for Greece and Turkey. I wanted a travel book that would be interesting and I don't know the travel-writing genre too well. So, I grabbed this; it looked light and amusing.  So, as I traveled, I read a couple stories every night. I have to say that there were only a few stories that were amusing. <br />The Good Ones: <br />How I Killed Off MY Ex-Wife &lt;- How a lie spiraled into crazy proportions... <br />Benuvenuto in Italia! &lt;- a confused traveler arrives in Italy and has an &quot;encounter&quot; with some Government officials. <br />The Dentist in Cameroon &lt;- This is definitely more on the &quot;misadventure,&quot; side of things... An African dentist acts like a mechanic. <br />Called on the Carpet in Marrakech &lt;- Opening line: &quot;Somebody with more experience in these things than I once warned that every glass of 'free' mint tea you drink in a Moroccan carpet shop ends up costing you $600.&quot; The best salesmen in the world are not American used car salesmen; these Moroccans may just have the title. <br />A Past Life &lt;- An interesting encounter in India. Reincarnation and theft come together in an amusing combination. <br />My thoughts about the book are that it did not really live up to its title. However, it is light reading that one needs after a long day of hiking up ancient sites. From somebody that doesn't know travel writing too well, I think there are probably better books out there.	2001-08-07
US	49444977	R28E9OCBP34MVD	0812508645	216137473	Pastwatch: The Redemption of Christopher Columbus	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Interesting ideas from science fiction and history	I enjoyed this novel; I like history and science fiction. Card carefully handles time travel as a literary device; the &quot;science&quot; doesn't take over the story and that shows that Card is better than a lot of the hack science fiction writers out there. After seeing the three pages of research sources at the end of the book, it is obvious that Card did some considerable historical research both into Columbus and into the Central America of the 1400's. <br />The conclusion to the novel is brilliant; it would have definitely changed world history greatly. It really made me think... Would Europe and Europe's role in world history (e.g. imperialism, founding colonies) stop? Would the new State in the Americas simply act as a counterbalance to Europe or would there be wars etc?<br />On the downside, is the cultural relativism expressed in the book. One of the dilemmas in the novel is whether a future society can judge the morality of the past. One of the characters says this on that issue:<br />&quot;Just admit that maybe your set of values is as arbitrary as any other culture's values, and to try to revise history to make your values triumph in the past as well as the present is pure cultural imperialism.&quot; (page 95)<br />This is loaded with problems. First of all, arbitrary means determined by chance, whim, or impulse, and not by necessity, reason, or principle. The character simply asserts this view and offers no reasons or arguments to accept it. This view (known as descriptive or cultural relativism) has as its implicit reasoning, cultures differ on moral questions, therefore no culture has universally applicable moral rules. Relativism of any stripe reduces to &quot;There are no universal moral rules.&quot; Yet, relativists always break their own system. In the above quote, it is implied that imposing one's values on a different culture is immoral. This is like saying, &quot;There are no moral rules... Here's a moral rule (i.e. you shouldn't impose your values on other cultures). For more on why relativism is false and doesn't work, see, &quot;Relativism: Feet firmly planted in mid-air,&quot; by Gregory Koukl and Francis J. Beckwith (I have also written a review of that book).<br />It is also ironic that despite the objection above, the characters do decide to intervene...<br />Also, at another point, Card describes what the people in new future described the events of the novel as the &quot;greatest reconciliation in history.&quot; Then, he goes on to list several possible recompilations (e.g. Alexander the Great and the Persians) and lists as the last one reconciliation between the Christians and the Muslims. If he means, peaceful non-violent coexistence, I think this is fully possible and should be worked for. However, if he means combining Islam and Christianity, it simply cannot be done. The two systems differ on their basic claims and these are too big to simply to papered over.<br />Despite these criticisms, it is still quite a good novel. I think I have learned quite a bit about Columbus. I thought he had the ships, men, and resources handed to him with royal blessings and told to find a route to the East. The truth is that it was a long hard life long quest. My interest in Columbus himself has been piqu	2001-08-05
US	49444977	RAVIMADXK16RR	0394716531	446299605	The Last of the Wine	Books	5	2	13	N	N	War and life in the 5th century BC!	This is one of the better historical fiction novels I have read. The novel takes place during the Peloponnesian War (c. 430 B.C. - 400 B.C.) a Greek civil war of sorts between Athens and allies and Sparta and allies.<br />There are many famous personages here: Socrates, Pericules and others. However, the main character of the novel is not one of these. Alexias (the main character), is a young man who grows up in a noble Athenian family. He has a full ancient Greek life: participates in war, competes in the Isthmian Games (similar to the Olympics but at Corinth), has a homosexual relationship and then is married to a woman. One of the main problems I had with the novel is the way homosexuality is treated; it is considered part of the status quo, so to speak. It is historically accurate (i.e. the Greeks would act like that) but it is immoral nonetheless.<br />One of the most interesting parts of the book is the effects of the War on Athens. To appreciate this, some background is necessary. Approximately 50 years before the start of this war, Athens led a military alliance that won the Persian Wars (against Persia, the superpower of the day). After the Persian Wars, Athens emerged as the naval and cultural leader of Greece. Athens also had a large military-political empire. Near the end of the novel, the Spartans (and their allies) lay siege to Athens. Inside the City, the Athenians suffer. There is substantial inflation and the nobles (including Alexias) start to suffer and hit the poverty line. In order to earn money, Alexias is forced to pose for statue sculptors and the wife of his best friend almost turns to prostitution. Then, the Spartans have their great revenge. They tear down the Long Walls... These were a great symbol of Athenian military power. A modern analogy might be if North Korea conquered America and then publicly dissembled and then destroyed all US nuclear missiles.<br />The novel was very historically accurate and I found it very fun to walk aroundin the Agora (briefly defined as the meeting area of the city where business, politics, philosophy etc would happen) in Athens. I could see the places that the characters visited as I wandered around. This novel is a good way to get some feel for the time period and what it might have been like to live then. Historical fiction serves as an interesting complement to more traditional ways of understanding history.<br />I know some other people who have read, &quot;The Mask of Apollo,&quot; by the same author and I may just read that as well.	2001-08-05
US	49444977	R1DXJMV3JDX7DX	0801058066	1352604	Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air	Books	5	40	47	N	N	Excellent critique of moral relativism!	This book impressed me. Some of the other reviews give the impression that the book is very shallow or is not substantive. I disagree. The book accomplishes its task admirably. The authors seek to show that moral relativism is false, the consequences of moral relativism and that moral objectivism is true. I note that the author is indebted to the book Principia Ethica by G.E. Moore for some of his ideas.<br />Definitions:<br />moral relativism: &quot;The view that when it comes to moral issues there are no universal objective right or wrong answers, no inappropriate or appropriate judgments, and no reasonable or rational ways by which to make distinctions that apply in every time, in every place and to every person.&quot; (page 12-13)<br />moral objectivism: The view that when it comes to moral issues, there ARE universal right or wrong answers, inappropriate or appropriate judgments, and reasonable or rational ways by which to make distinctions that apply in every time, in every place and to every person (this is a composite of the view point the author's offer and defend)<br />The authors argue that people know that there are morally objective rules by intuition. This may be misunderstood to be a whim or emotion. The author's give an example of another thing that is known by intuition: &quot;My hand is injured,&quot; I say &quot;How do you know it's injured?&quot; you ask. &quot;Because it hurts.&quot; &quot;How do you know it hurts?&quot; &quot;Because I feel it.&quot; &quot;But how do you know you feel it.&quot; &quot;I just know...&quot; (pages 57-58; please note the last line is a summary of the author's further explanation)<br />I think the author's provided a devastating critique of various different forms of relativism. The different forms they attacked were: Society Does Relativism (i.e. cultural or descriptive relativism), Society Says Relativism (i.e. conventionalism or normative ethical relativism), I Say Relativism (i.e. individual ethical relativism or ethical subjectivism). The terms in brackets are the formal philosophical names for these positions; the other terms are not technical but do aid in remembering the different types. To make an observation about the first type, it just means that different cultures basically disagree on morality (the authors change this idea itself as does C.S. Lewis in his book, The Abolition of Man.). However, however moral disagreement (if it is granted) does not lead one to the conclusion there are no moral rules. That would be like saying because people get math question like 2+2 wrong that there is no right answer.<br />The authors also describe the impact of relativism in public education (i.e. values clarification), law and on several controversial moral issues (i.e. abortion, same-sex marriage/homosexuality and euthanasia). On the last set of issues, it was interesting to learn that the permissibility of these actions in popular American culture essentially rests on two principles: absolute personal autonomy and ethical subjectivism. This means two things: (1) I am free to do *anything* I want and (2) Whatever I want and do is right. Is not immediately apparent that this has dangerous consequences? Another impact of relativism is that it negates all public debate on moral issues. Since there are no higher principles to appeal to, all morality basically reduces to might makes right (to put it into political parlance, what the Establishment enacts in law is moral). This view (relativism) would make protest for civil rights or protests against apartheid foolish and baseless.<br />Then there are the practical or tactical sections of the book; two chapters in particular stand out in this regard: Relativisms Seven Fatal Flaws and Tactics to Refute Relativism. These chapters alone are worth the price of the book. Indeed, they should be published separately in a small booklet.<br />I would highly recommend this book, especially for high school and college/University students. For teachers who say that you cant criticize the morality of another culture,  impose your morality, or even, There is no absolute truth, and the like, here is how to  deal with that viewpoint. The value of this book is in doing what Francis Schaeffer called, pre-evangelism, that is to say laying the groundwork for Christianity; making Christianity sensible and intellectually viable. Again, I fully recommend the book to all people yearning for clear thinking in morality.	2001-07-29
US	49444977	R29E3D65VOSUC8	0658012045	558939492	Teach Yourself 101 Key Ideas: Philosophy	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Western philosophy in 101 pages	This book describes itself as something between a dictionary and a philosophy textbook. In a textbook, the definitions would go on and on for pages. In a dictionary, there are often only one or two sentences. In this format, every term, person etc.. gets one page, which comes out to roughly 300 - 400 words each. In the definitions, there is often a definition a paragraph in length, then arguments for the concept and then criticisms that have been offered against the concept. Often, there is an illustration of the theory, which may be of assistance to people who are new to the subject. This is a useful ready reference book for someone wondering what some of the major ideas have been in the past 2500 years of Western philosophy.<br />Some of the different concepts and persons covered are:<br />Empiricism<br />Ethics<br />Karl Jaspers<br />Continental Philosophy<br />Argument ad hominem<br />Absolutism<br />Materialism<br />Philosophy of Education<br />Rationalism<br />Rene Déscartes<br />John Locke<br />Pantheism<br />Meaning<br />Existentialism<br />Naturalism<br />Free Will<br />Deduction<br />Egoism<br />Metaphysics<br />Objectivism<br />My criticism of the book is that if occasionally explains a term via an analogy or scenario but then fails to provide a clear definition of the term itself. However, only a handful of the entries are like this.<br />In ethics, I think I would affirm Absolutism and Objectivism which are defined as: Absolutism: &quot;This is the general philosophical view that there are fundamental truths about the world which are independent of the opinions of individual people or of different societies... Ethical absolutism is the view that there are moral principles which are true in all cultures and societies, and at all times in history, irrespective of whether human beings do in fact adhere to them.&quot; (page 2)<br />Objectivism: &quot;This is the contention in ethics that there are certain moral principles which are true and which are quiteindependent of the beliefs of individual human beings.&quot; (page 69)<br />Some of the other frankly illogical and dangerous ideas are emotive theory (&quot;... the view that moral judgments are fundamentally an articulation of feelings...&quot; page 32) or relativism (&quot;Relativism takes the view there are no fixed or absolute standards in relation to knowledge about the world, moral behaviour, social organization, or any other aspect of human life.&quot; page 84). Emotive theory is apparently a representative of the non-cognitivist school of ethics. <br />The series, as far as I know, is British. Both this series (101 key ideas) and the other &quot;Teach Yourself,&quot; books are British. Their style is somewhat different from American or Canadian writing but as this is a ready-reference work, that is not really an issue.<br />The end of the book is a one page long, \\"Further Reading,\\" section. <br />Two excellent Christian books that cover some of these ideas and provide a Christian response are:<br />The Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics by Norman Geisler<br />Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air by Francis J. Beckwith and Gregory Koukl	2001-06-22
US	49444977	R1Y0QSKFNHVDIS	0801011523	661813815	Willing to Believe: The Controversy over Free Will	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The history of the Arminian-Calvinist debate	I found this book quite interesting; it helped me to understand the historical development of the free will/salvation debate. The author, R.C. Sproul, is a committed Calvinist but this does not hinder his presentation of opposing theologians. He quotes from primary source material whenever possible and even though this may be difficult to understand at times, I think it is the best way to proceed.<br />Sproul's approach was to look at all the important figures in Church history who have contributed to the free-will/salvation debate. He starts by contrasting Pelagius and Augustine. Even though they lived about 1,500 years ago, they set the groundwork for the debate. Pelagius is almost universally condemned as being heretical, both in his time and ours. The other theologians covered are: Martin Luther, John Calvin, James Arminius, Jonathan Edwards, Charles Grandison Finney and Lewis Sperry Chafer. Sproul also covers semi-Pelagianism as taught by Cassian. It is interesting to note that this issue is often developed in the form of argument between two men: Augustine and Pelagius, Martin Luther and Erasmas and so on. <br />Sproul then goes to the great Reformers: Martin Luther and John Calvin, who BOTH defended what is now called Reformed or Calvinist theology. It was interesting to learn that Luther and Calvin basically voiced the same position. Then, there is James Arminius, the Dutch theologian, who has represented the semi-Pelagian or Arminian position in the modern era. I was surprised to learn that Arminius agrees with Calvin on the doctrine of total depravity (Sproul shows this by quoting directly from Arminius).<br />One of the main points that Sproul makes a few times is that the Calvinist position is often caricatured. Even if you think Calvinism is false, it is simply dishonest to build up theological straw men to knock down and then claim victory. Another interesting point is that one's doctrine or understanding of the Fall determines one's soteriology (doctrine of salvation) and one's understanding of free will. <br />Occasionally, the book becomes difficult to understand. In particular, the chapter on Jonathan Edwards was difficult to understand. It was good that Sproul included a glossary of the Latin terms that have historically been used in the debate. The last section in the book was on Lewis Sperry Chafer, one of the founders of Dispensationalism. I have heard of this before but I don't know too much about it. Sproul lists Billy Graham and Norman Geisler as contemporary Dispensationalists. However, Sproul is only discussing Dispensational soteriology and doesn't touch on Dispensational eschatology (doctrine of last things; second coming of Christ, Rapture etc...).<br />I would recommend the book, and even though I found parts of it difficult, I think that I now have a better understanding of the free will debate.	2001-06-19
US	49444977	R3R1W136SJG53X	0060652942	472936459	The Abolition of Man	Books	3	40	49	N	N	Explains, shows the consequences but little argument	I read this book after a few different sources mentioned it as a book that deals with moral relativism. After reading the book, I don't know if I can honestly agree with many of the other reviewers. I have read two other books by C.S. Lewis, &quot;Mere Christianity,&quot; and, &quot;The Screwtape Letters,&quot; so I think I have some idea what his approach is. I can only hope that I am failing to grasp his ideas or that I am misunderstanding him.<br />Definitions: moral relativism: The position that there are no moral absolutes, no moral right and wrongs. The philosophical position that all points of view are equally valid and that all truth is relative to the individual.<br />moral objectivism/absolutism: The position that there are universally binding moral principles that apply to all persons, at all places and at all times.<br />The book discusses the consequences of moral relativism and shows the difficulty of replacing absolute ethics with relative ones. However, I don't come away from the book thinking, &quot;All right. I know how I can show moral relativism is false in a debate. I now know how to defend absolute ethics against objections.&quot; Perhaps this simply was not the objective of the book.<br />The first essay (it was originally a lecture) titled, \\"Men Without Chests,\\" was probably the best in my opinion. Lewis examined a common elementary level school English textbook and looked at the philosophy that it taught. The implication of the wording and the subtle way in which relativism was communicated is prophetic. This same analysis could no doubt be applied to our current trends of political correctness.<br />In his essay titled, \\"The Tao,\\" Lewis provides much argument to show that a moral system cannot be based on instincts. However, much of his argument seems to reduce to: moral objectivism is axiomatic. He argues that there are simply moral first principles, analogous to the three laws of logic, which cannot be denied. However, I think there are many people who would deny that moral objectivism is self-evident. If I were a moral relativist, I would hardly be convinced by Lewis' arguments here.<br />The last section is titled, \\"Illustrations of the Tao.\\" Lewis calls natural law or moral objectivism the Tao. This section simply provides excerpts from different books around the world (e.g. ancient Egyptian, ancient Chinese, Roman and Jewish) to show the universality of certain ethics.<br />I would have liked a book that looked at the founders of moral relativism and their opponents. Then, a point-by-point analysis of their position followed by some examples of how moral relativism fails. I would much prefer the rigorous argumentation of Dr. William Lane Craig to this. I just honestly think that relativism is false but this book does not show that fact. I am going to read and review, &quot;Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air,&quot; by Francis J. Beckwith, Gregory Koukl; I think this book may be better at refuting relativism.many people who would deny that moral objectivism is self-evident. If I were a moral relativist, I would hardly be convinced by Lewis' arguments here. <br />The last section is titled, \\"Illustrations of the Tao.\\" Lewis calls natural law or moral objectivism the Tao. This section simply provides excerpts from different books around the world (e.g. ancient Egyptian, ancient Chinese, Roman and Jewish) to show the universality of certain ethics. <br />I would have liked a book that looked at the founders of moral relativism and their opponents. Then, a point-by-point analysis of their position followed by some examples of how moral relativism fails. I would much prefer the rigorous argumentation of Dr. William Lane Craig to this. I just honestly think that relativism is false but this book does not show that fact. I am going to read and review, &quot;Relativism: Feet Firmly Planted in Mid-Air,&quot; by Francis J. Beckwith, Gregory Koukl; I think this book may be better at refuting relativism.	2001-06-18
US	49444977	R12DXHM0AIR46B	1566632625	772900567	Locke in 90 Minutes (Philosophers in 90 Minutes Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	John Locke: His life and his philosophy, served fast	This book sets as its goal to communicate the life and work of John Locke in 90 minutes. For me, the book succeeded in this; I read it in about an hour and then went back over some parts to review in more depth. <br />John Locke (1632-1704) was an important philosopher; he laid the groundwork for liberal democracy and he was also the founder of empiricism. Strathern spends most of the book describing different events in Locke's life and for non-specialist, this is probably a good approach. Strathern does a fairly good job of putting Locke in his historical context; grew up during the English Civil War, and then lived through Oliver Cromwell's rule and then the Restoration of the Monarchy; one of the more turbulent periods in English history, no doubt. I think Paul Strathern is a British writer and this comes through in his writing.<br />Strathern is fond is saying that Locke's philosophy was &quot;common sense.&quot; However, empiricism (The view that experience, especially of the senses, is the only source of knowledge) is not really self-evident and wholly obvious. Locke also presumed that when one is born, one is a tabula rasa (The mind before it receives the impressions gained from experience. The unformed, featureless mind in the philosophy of John Locke.) or a blank slate. I think that everybody has some innate ideas (things that you just know apart from experience). On occasion, it appears that Locke is a materialist (materialism: The theory that physical matter is the only reality and that everything, including thought, feeling, mind, and will, can be explained in terms of matter and physical phenomena) but this is incompatible with his philosophy. Surely, empiricism is a non-physical thing; how much does empiricism weigh? What is its volume? It is non-physical. As a philosophy of epistemology (The branch of philosophy that studies the nature of knowledge, its presuppositions and foundations, and its extent and validity), I think empiricism is seriously flawed.<br />Locke's political thought probably had more impact on the world than his epistemology. Locke believed there is a natural law that gives people certain rights; for example the right to life or the right to liberty. However, because people keep stepping on other people's rights, it is necessary to form some sort of social contract (i.e like the American Constitution). Locke also held that certain rights are inherent and that if a government should act to violate those rights, then the people are justified in starting a revolution against those in power. Locke believed that Government had no legitimacy except the consent of the people (near the end of the 1700's, this would result in a paradigm shift from the Divine Right of Kings, to a Government by the People). <br />One the most interesting passages (I don't agree with his evaluation of Kant thought) describes several centuries of European philosophy: &quot;Without Descartes there might have been no modern philosophy. But it was Locke who fathered the main line of development - the British Empiricists, who then provoked Kant to produce the greatest philosophical system of all, which in turn gave rise to the elephantine folly of Hegel, and the consequent disbelief in all systems by anyone except Marxists and optimistic punters.&quot; (page 49)<br />One of the interesting legacies of Locke may be his contribution to scientism (The belief that only science provides true knowledge or only that which can be proved by science is true). He makes a distinction between primary qualities of an object, which are quantifiable (e.g. mass or volume) and he said these are in the objects. Then there are secondary qualities, and these are qualitative (e.g. colour or smell) do not have the same connection to the object. In some sense, secondary qualities are mental constructs, in Locke's view. It is easy to see how a belief that quantitative properties are the only real things that can be known (i.e. if science can't measureit, it doesn't exist.) has major repercussions. The other problem I have with Locke relates to his understanding of language and how that language can describe objects. Strathern says, \\"Locke had rejected the Aristotelian notion whereby the words with which we classify things correspond to the `real essence' of things.\\" (page 47) The impact of this is that if two people see an object they cannot discover a common essence but both can come up with ideas that are mental constructs. I think this may have contributed to the moral relativism that is now so so pervasive in North America. <br />On the format of the book, about 60% covers Locke's life and works; that is 48 pages. Then there is a short Afterword, followed by a 10 page section which quotes from Locke's two major works, \\"An Essay Concerning Human Understanding,\\" (on epistemology) and, \\"Two Treatises of Government,\\" (on political philosophy; attacks the Divine Right of Kings and argues for liberal democracy). Then there are two chronologies; one of the history of Western philosophy (it is interesting to note who comes before and after Locke) and then there is a chronology of Locke's life.<br />There are several problems with Locke's thought, however I will look at two here. In describing the point at which everyone has his or her rights and all is well, I think this shows a view that humanity is basically good. However, if you examine the history of the world, yourself or the Bible, you find that this is simply not the case. It is dangerous to build a government with the assumption that people are basically good. On his political philosophy, I don't know if it is wise to wholly place the legitimacy of government in the consent of the people. There must be a higher authority beyond man, immutable and good, on which government can be measured against (e.g. in South Africa, apartheid was legal and authorized by the government however only by appeal to a transcendent law that demands equality could this be overthrown)	2001-06-16
US	49444977	RQ5MUOYTDNXHE	0892818883	970035095	Genetically Engineered Food: Changing the Nature of Nature: What You Need to Know to Protect Yourself, Your Family, and Our Planet	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Explore genetically modified food and its dangers...	I first heard about the issue of genetically modified (GMO) food a few years ago when the protest movement against it began in Great Britain and then spread to the rest of Europe. However, I did not know the issues involved...<br />After reading this book, I think I have a better grasp on the problems with GMO foods as contrasted to traditional food. The most shocking assertion I found in the book is that  GMO foods do not offer any benefits (whether it be higher yields, higher nutritional value etc...). I have not done enough research to verify this either way but if true that would be quite shocking.<br />Some of the interesting things I learned in the book:<br />- GMO science is quite imprecise. Researchers are often not sure if the insertion of foreign genes into a host (e.g. a plant) will have the predicted results or not.<br />- The immense size of some GMO companies, notably the American firm Monsanto. (To give some perspective: Microsoft is to the software industry as Monsanto is to the GMO industry)<br />One of the most pressing concerns for me was the commercialization of agriculture. For example, Monsanto spent $8 billion US in the first half of 1998 buying out seed companies (a few companies may end up owning patents to all the seeds in the world if this is left unchecked). The new trend of patenting seeds is also creating a dependency on the part of the farmers. Prior to GMO, farmers would save the seeds from their better crops and plant those next years. GMO companies, through contracts and other legal instruments, now insure that farmers buy from them EVERY year and they penalize the farmers if they attempt to save seeds. The whole concept of OWNING plants and organisms was very disturbing (it was interesting to note that a little known US Supreme Court decision Diamond v. Chakrabarty 1980 set a precedent in patenting life)<br />There was also some discussion of whether GMO foods should be labeled as such (the authors argue that GMO foods should be labeled). Of course, this is done in Western Europe, so there is no question of whether this is possible. GMO companies are vigorously fighting this, fearing that the public will immediately stop buying their products. <br />The main content of the book consisted of documenting various cases where GMO foods have caused problems of some sort or another. There was an interesting point made on how much of an influence GMO companies have on the Food and Drug Administration in the US. There was also an introductory section on genetic engineering, so the beginner will not get lost.<br />The authors offered a personal strategy whereby one can try to publicize the issue, find alternatives to buying and eating GMO foods and so on. The authors are clearly of the view that GMO foods are, at best, a strange unknown and, at worst, a foolish risk.<br />I took off a star off because the writing could have been better and the authors made their agenda a little too obvious. It would have improved the book if they had included and responded to some of the pro-GMO counter-arguments.	2001-06-12
US	49444977	R2K1J5IZG89Z8L	0877849811	714292685	Christianity and World Religions	Books	5	17	17	N	N	The uniqueness of Christianity	This book, along with Dissonant Voices by Harold A. Netland (which I have also reviewed), is among the best Christian books I have read on the relation of Christianity to the world's other major religions.<br />The main thrust of this work is the uniqueness of the Gospel. There are three major chapters dealing with the uniqueness question: A unique proclamation? A unique salvation? A unique disclosure?<br />The two other chapters:  No other name?  Proclamation, dialogue, or both?<br />\\"A unique proclamation?\\" discusses the idea that the New Testament argues that God-in-manhood (i.e. Jesus Christ) has died in human history and has been physically resurrected as well; these are unique historical events. Anderson contrasts this with major differences found in other religions. The mystery religions of the early Christian era (c. 0-200 A.D.) are myth based whereas Christianity is based on events in a specific place and a specific time. Anderson also notes the mythological basis of Hinduism (he also discusses the Hindu doctrine of avatars which is quite DIFFERANT from the Christian doctrine of the Incarnation). As for religions with a historical basis, he discusses Islam and Judaism (and includes Buddhism under this category, but I don't agree. Buddhism could exist if the historical Buddha was mythological.)<br />&quot;A unique salvation?&quot; discusses the ultimate goal or purpose of human existence, as understood from Christianity and other religions. For the Christian, this would be Heaven and the forgiveness of sins etc... However, this stands in sharp contrast to other religions, which have, for example, release from reincarnation as their &quot;salvation.&quot; Anderson than classifies religions into two categories; those that are \\"this worldy\\" and those that are Hereafter oriented. The &quot;this-worldly&quot; religions/ideologies discussed are: Communism, Fascism, Theravada Buddhism, and Zen Buddhism. Then there are the religions where salvation is &quot;primarily in terms of eternity&quot; (e.g. Hinduism, Bhaki Hinduism, Mahayana Buddhism etc...). He notes that Christianity is among the very few with the dual emphasis both on eternity and the present world. Then, Anderson looks at the question of how salvation is to be attained in various different religions and the differences that are entailed here.<br />\\"A unique disclosure?\\" contrasts the Christian revelation of the nature and character of God to other religions. Anderson addresses the so-called, \\"evolutionary theory of religions,\\" which asserts that religions start as animism, then polytheism and lastly monotheism. Anderson presents contrary evidence to this, in that there have been several tribes discovered which are either at the level of monotheism (and this development could not be attributed to outside influences) or henotheism (which is belief in or worship of one God while admitting or not denying the existence of other Gods; i.e. the notion of a \\"Supreme\\" God). Anderson looks at the problem of evil, the character of God and some other ideas in the rest of this chapter.<br />\\"No other name?\\" (based on Acts 4:12), is challenging in terms of the ideas presented but I think that Anderson has some good ideas here. He notes that the New Testament records the life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ as \\"once for all.\\" One of the great passages in the book, is here:<br />\\"Inevitably, then the Christian faith is either itself false or `casts the shadow of falsehood, or at least of imperfect truth, on every other system. This Christian claim' as Stephen Neill insists, ` is naturally offensive to the adherents of every other religious system... But we must not suppose that this claim to universal validity is something that can be quietly removed from the Gospel without changing it into something entirely different from what it is... For the human sickness there is one specific remedy, and this is it. There is no other.'\\" (page 140). <br />Anderson then proceeds to examine various different situations such as the pre-Christian era, those today who have never heard the Gospel, the Jews since the advent of Christ. I was very surprised that Anderson did not mention or discuss Hebrews 8:13; such a passage would seem to have decisive to say about the case of Judaism.<br />The last chapter is about the relation between proclamation and dialogue. Proclamation is the announcement of the Gospel and declaring what God has done in Jesus. Entering into discussion with the adherent of another religion, does not require, giving up one's commitments, embracing relativism etc... both rather committing to respect the dignity and accord the other person the respect the deserve as a person. Anderson takes as a text, the encounter between Cornelius and the Apostle Peter in Acts 10 where both gained something in the meeting. I am not sure what to make of this chapter; the whole issue of what dialogue is (in contrast to evangelism or theological argument) has not been clearly defined in a widely accepted way. There are some informal forms of dialogue with adherents of other religions, which may eventually change into a presentation of the Gospel; this would seem to be the ideal situation. <br />I would recommend this book, in addition to, \\"Dissonant Voices: Religious Pluralism and the Question of Truth,\\" by Harold A. Netland, to all Christians who:<br />a) want to know how to deal with members of other religions<br />b) want to know how to show the idea \\"that all religions teach the same thing,\\" is really a distortion of the world's religions<br />c) are interested in learning about other religions	2001-06-09
US	49444977	R1TB4LGDKA7713	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Dick is better with ideas than characters	After reading some of the other reviews here and then the book itself, I have some thoughts on, &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?&quot; (DADOES). This is the second Philip K. Dick novel that I've ever read (the other being, &quot;The Divine Invasion,&quot; which I have reviewed).<br />I think Dick really explores the question of what human means in this novel. His main character, Rick Deckard is a bounty hunter for the San Francisco Police. He hunts renegade androids who have escaped from colony worlds (i.e Mars) and &quot;retires&quot; (kills) them. However, before he can retire the androids, he must verify that they are indeed androids. At this point, Deckard must administer the Voigt-Kampff Empathy Test, which measures instinctive emotional reactions to questions. As androids were designed without emotive capabilities (to distinguish them from humans; it seems they are otherwise indistinguishable), this is one of the few ways to identify them. Unfortunately, information emerges that says that sub-normal human with impaired with emotions could fail the test and thus be retired. I wish Dick had Deckard come to a scenario where he was very unsure about the status of someone standing before him, where he might have to take a chance...<br />The setting of the novel is after what is called, &quot;World War Terminus,&quot; in 2019. The World War Terminus seems to be some sort of global nuclear war, which has coated the planet in radioactive dust, which slowly killed many of the Earth's animals. \\"The legacy of World War Terminus had diminished in potency; those who could not survive the dust had passed into oblivion years ago, and the dust, weaker now and confronting the strong survivors, only deranged minds and genetic properties.\\" (page 8)  It retards humans, renders them infertile, ages them faster and has over non-lethal effects. I would have liked to know more about this fictional future war. One of the interesting historical quirks in the novel is that Dick predicted that the Soviet Union would still be in existence in 2019; of course one must keep in mind that Dick wrote the novel in 1968 (a 51 year projection).<br />In this future decaying Earth, the mass media is still enormously influential. There are two main parties competing for human allegiance. There is \\"Buster Friendly\\" who is some sort of 24 hours a day, 7 days a week comedy television program and then there is Wilbur Mercer. Mercer is part of the futuristic religion of Mercerism; Dick largely leaves Mercerism unexplored. Mercer acts as a guide for Decker but says he does have all the answers... Buster Friendly then exposes Mercer as a Hollywood-produced fake. Even after this, Mercer is still there. The main purpose of Mercerism seems to be experiencing an emotional fusion with Mercer who suffers some sort of on-going persecution. <br />To look at the title, it is necessary to go into the novel in some detail. The radioactive dust killed the gross majority of Earth animals rather quickly, so owning a real living animal is considered a major status symbol. As the animals are incredibly expensive, many people buy \\"electric\\" (i.e. synthetic, copies; analogous to the human/android contrast in the novel) animals as a substitute. The title is meant to express the paradoxical idea of whether synthetic humans (in one case of the novel, an android did not know it was, in fact, an android) dream of possessing synthetic animals.          <br />To look at Ridley Scott's interpretation of the novel in, \\"Blade Runner,\\" (1982) will be next. As other reviewers have said, the film it is perhaps more accurate to say that the novel inspired the film rather than saying the film is based on the novel. I will look at differences and the pro's and cons of it.<br />There were some substantial changes; the role of Roy Batty is significantly expanded. In the novel, he leads the last of the Nexus-6 androids (a new class of androids who can almost beat the Voigt-Kampff test). In thefilm and the novel, the lifespan of androids of set at four years. In the novel, it seems to be an arbitrary limit whereas in the film a cogent explanation is given. In the film, it is feared that after four years the androids (called replicants in the film; it carries more of a mass-produced ring to it) start to have emotional capabilities and would thus be able to blend in with humans. As a failsafe, the massive corporation that builds androids (Rosen Association in the novel, Rand in the film, I think) programmed their DNA to stop replicating after 4 years and thus any dead cells would not be replaced, leading to eventual death. The setting of the film is Los Angeles rather than San Francisco and I had a totally different mental picture of what Earth would look like. In the novel, one gets the impression that there are only a few thousand people on the planet, which is decaying away into nothing due to the dust. In the film, L.A. is a vibrant, somewhat decaying city where there is massive pollution but no dust. Generally, I didn't like the film though this may be simply because I'm not used to or a fan of the film noir genre. <br />Near the end of the film, Deckard has to fight Roy Batty to retire him. In the novel, Roy just stands there and gets blasted. After some chasing, fighting and so on, there is the best scene of the whole film where Deckard is hanging onto a building by his fingertips about to fall off and Roy Batty is watching and then Roy catches Deckard just as he looses grip. Roy Batty then has the best lines of the film where he talks about life and then dies, as he is at the end of his four years. The great irony is that the hunted replicant ends up saving Deckard, his hunter who only knew his quarry due to a lack of emotions.	2001-06-08
US	49444977	R2BH7GP6Y4JLRB	0060812451	524015341	Tao Te Ching	Books	3	4	21	N	N	Illogical but good source for Taoism	I read this book in an effort to understand Taoism further. This translation is not from the original Chinese; rather Mitchell used several different existing translations and a word-for-word translation and then manipulated the text. Mitchell seeks to show the meaning of the text but has no qualms about taking liberties with it when he thinks this will aid comprehension.<br />There were several statements in the book that were illogical. There is no other way to phrase it. I'm sure some readers will object to applying logic to religion or assert that there are two realities or planes of thought (the ordinary world or the scientific world) and then there is the realm of the religious. However, the three laws of logic (identity, non-contradiction and the excluded middle) are inescapable. <br />For example, if somebody asserts that something like, \\"The three laws of logic do not apply to religion,\\" one necessarily implies that the contradiction of this (that the laws of logic do apply to religion) is false and thereby one must employ the laws, even while attempting to show they are not applicable. There is simply no way to escape logic; it is necessary for coherent, meaningful discourse. <br />Some examples of Taoist irrationality:<br />The tao that can be told is not the eternal Tao.   Those who know don't talk. Those who talk don't know<br />The first one asserts ineffability (Incapable of being expressed). There are one or two problems with this: (1) this defeats the purpose of writing a book on the Tao or (2) in asserting &quot;the Tao cannot be expressed&quot; the statement self-refutes. The statement no knowledge can be known about the Tao IS a statement of knowledge about the Tao. On the second saying, this would show that original author (Lao-tse) doesn't know for he spoke (actually wrote, but the same idea). This is another effort to show Taoist ineffability; it fails. <br />Elsewhere, the Tao Te Ching asserts that this as its rational justification:<br />Howdo I know this is true? By looking inside myself. <br />The whole idea of the Tao could simply be a mental construct in the mind of Lao-tse. Appealing to personal experience WITHOUT objective verification is not acceptable.<br />The Tao (which maybe be translated as the Way) is some sort of abstract animating principle behind the universe. To claim the Tao is the Taoist God is mistaken. Perhaps in popular-level Taoism, this may be the case. However, such a notion finds no support in the Tao Te Ching.<br />The Tao Te Ching's view of humanity is false as well; it implies that humanity is fundamentally good. Apart from the Bible, every day experience and history verify that people are radically fallen and corrupted.<br />There were some occasional positive ideas in the book. For example:<br />&quot;Weapons are the tools of violence; all decent men detest them. Weapons are the tools of fear.&quot; Also, the book has a strong sense of ecology and some occasional good sense of government.<br />In addition to the logical problems of the book, it is false due to the truth of Christian truth. There is original sin (which is a state whereby all people are corrupted and fallen) and thus any system that affirms the basic goodness of man is false. There is also good reason to reject the impersonal animating principle of the Tao for the real God who reveals himself in history and in the lives of Christians.<br />If you're looking for truth, look elsewhere. If you want to get some understanding in the basic text of Taoism, this is a good place to begin but do keep the logical problems in mind.	2001-06-06
US	49444977	R24HMKYY88FI9R	1573830828	508972017	Dissonant Voices: Religious Pluralism & the Question of Truth	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Well-reasoned and incisive critique of religious pluralism	After reading several different popular level works that deal with the relation of Christianity to other religions, I finally found a good book. This book gave substantive descriptions of different religions and their various claims avoiding charges of caricature.<br />To define the terms:<br />Christian exclusivism: exclusivism maintains that the central claims of Christianity are true, and that where the claims of Christianity conflict with those of other religions, the latter are to be rejected as false. (page 9)<br />Religious pluralism: God is said to be actively revealing himself in all religious traditions. (page 10)  All religions are in their own way complex historically and culturally conditioned human responses to the same divine reality. (page 26)<br />This book discusses religious pluralism and if it is rational and so on. One of the book's great strengths is the recognition that the religions of the world say basically different or contradictory things about three vital religious topics: the nature of the religious ultimate (e.g. Allah, The Holy Trinity, Krishna, Nirvana, Brahman etc..), the nature of the human predicament (e.g. rebellion against a holy and righteous God, ignorance, being locked into a continuous state of reincarnation). <br />To summarize Netland shows that regarding all religions as the same or saying the same thing requires significant distortion of or radical alternation of the defining beliefs (the beliefs which are essential to any religion being true). The other approach the pluralists use is to argue that these religions do not intend to make ontological claims (or claims about reality) but rather they are mythical, meaningful constructs. At best, this distorts what Buddhists, Christians, Jews, Muslims and others believe.<br />Two chapters in particular were outstanding in the book: <br />(4) Religion and Truth <br />(5) Evaluation Religious Traditions<br />In (4), Netland looks at the views of liberal contemporary theologiansand how they view religious truth. He summarizes the views of many theologians in these two propositions: (1) Personal truth can legitimately be applied to religion whereas propositional truth cannot. (2) Both personal truth and propositional truth can be applied to religion, but personal truth is somehow more basic and fundamental than propositional truth. (page 129)<br />Netland shows the inadequacy of both of these views. Further on in the same chapter, Netland shows the problems with the ineffable thesis, which asserts that the religious truth is inexpressible or put another way, &quot;Beliefs and doctrines are just inadequate pointers toward what cannot be articulated.&quot; (page 133). A modified version of the ineffable thesis is the via negativa which asserts that only negative statements can be made about God (e.g. God is not physical. God is not evil. God is not of limited intelligence. etc). However, to use this method implies that one has positive knowledge about God by which one knows that the negative statements are indeed true. <br />Then there is the &quot;two-level&quot; conception of truth. This asserts that there is one level of truth (e.g. scientific knowledge, mathematics and philosophical reasoning), which is subject to logic, and then there is the &quot;higher&quot; level of truth, which is not subject to logic. However, in making this assertion, logic is used. The statement, &quot;Logic does not apply to religion,&quot; necessarily implies that the contradiction of that statement, &quot;Logic does apply to religion,&quot; is false. <br />Chapter (5) offers 12 criteria by which one can evaluate the TRUTH of a given religious tradition. Netland prefaces this analysis that it is not comprehensive but that it serves as a significant starting point. I wish this chapter were available in small booklet; it is excellent. <br />The last chapter discusses the ideas of evangelism, dialogue and tolerance. Netland distinguishes between several different forms of dialogue; at a simple level, this simply means coming together to understand one another. However, there are forms of dialogue, which are unacceptable to evangelicals.<br />This book is one of the best out there. There are extensive footnotes whereby Netland refers the reader to explore topics (such as the objectivity of morality) that space prohibits extensive discussion of. For the person who asserts that all religions teach the same thing or that all religions lead to the same place, submit that belief to logic. This book shows how to do that. For Christians who affirm Christian exclusivism, this book will be of great benefit in defending one of the most hotly debated topics in society.	2001-06-06
US	49444977	R24C3SD8F8MD5A	0345404475	978657248	Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?: The inspiration for the films Blade Runner and Blade Runner 2049	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Dick is better with ideas than characters	After reading some of the other reviews here and then the book itself, I have some thoughts on, &quot;Do Androids Dream of Electric Sheep?&quot; (DADOES). This is the second Philip K. Dick novel that I've ever read (the other being, &quot;The Divine Invasion,&quot; which I have reviewed).<br />I think Dick really explores the question of what human means in this novel. His main character, Rick Deckard is a bounty hunter for the San Francisco Police. He hunts renegade androids who have escaped from colony worlds (i.e Mars) and &quot;retires&quot; (kills) them. However, before he can retire the androids, he must verify that they are indeed androids. At this point, Deckard must administer the Voigt-Kampff Empathy Test, which measures instinctive emotional reactions to questions. As androids were designed without emotive capabilities (to distinguish them from humans; it seems they are otherwise indistinguishable), this is one of the few ways to identify them. Unfortunately, information emerges that says that sub-normal human with impaired emotions could fail the test and thus be retired. I wish Dick had Deckard come to a scenario where he was very unsure about the status of someone standing before him, where he might have to take a chance...<br />The setting of the novel is after what is called, &quot;World War Terminus,&quot; in 2019. The World War Terminus seems to be some sort of global nuclear war, which has coated the planet in radioactive dust, which slowly killed many of the Earth's animals. \\"The legacy of World War Terminus had diminished in potency; those who could not survive the dust had passed into oblivion years ago, and the dust, weaker now and confronting the strong survivors, only deranged minds and genetic properties.\\" (page 8)  It retards humans, renders them infertile, ages them faster and has other non-lethal effects. I would have liked to know more about this fictional future war. One of the interesting historical quirks in the novel is that Dick predicted that the Soviet Union would still be in existence in 2019; of course one must keep in mind that Dick wrote the novel in 1968 (a 51 year projection).<br />In this future decaying Earth, the mass media is still enormously influential. There are two main parties competing for human allegiance. There is \\"Buster Friendly\\" who is some sort of 24 hours a day, 7 days a week comedy television program and then there is Wilbur Mercer. Mercer is part of the futuristic religion of Mercerism; Dick largely leaves Mercerism unexplored. Mercer acts as a guide for Decker but says he does have all the answers... Buster Friendly then exposes Mercer as a Hollywood-produced fake. Even after this, Mercer is still there. The main purpose of Mercerism seems to be experiencing an emotional fusion with Mercer who suffers some sort of on-going persecution. <br />To look at the title, it is necessary to go into the novel in some detail. The radioactive dust killed the gross majority of Earth animals rather quickly, so owning a real living animal is considered a major status symbol. As the animals are incredibly expensive, many people buy \\"electric\\" (i.e. synthetic, copies; analogous to the human/android contrast in the novel) animals as a substitute. The title is meant to express the paradoxical idea of whether synthetic humans (in one case of the novel, an android did not know it was, in fact, an android) dream of possessing synthetic animals.          <br />To look at Ridley Scott's interpretation of the novel in, \\"Blade Runner,\\" (1982) will be next. As other reviewers have said, it is perhaps perhaps more accurate to say that the novel inspired the film rather than the film being based on the novel. I will look at differences and the pro's and cons of it.<br />There were some substantial changes; the role of Roy Batty is significantly expanded. In the novel, he leads the last of the Nexus-6 androids (a new class of androids who can almost beat the Voigt-Kampff test). In the film andthe novel, the lifespan of androids of set at four years. In the novel, it seems to be an arbitrary limit whereas in the film a cogent explanation is given. In the film, it is feared that after four years the androids (called replicants in the film; it carries more of a mass-produced ring to it) start to have emotional capabilities and would thus be able to blend in with humans. As a failsafe, the massive corporation that builds androids (Rosen Association in the novel, Rand in the film, I think) programmed their DNA to stop replicating after 4 years and thus any dead cells would not be replaced, leading to eventual death. The setting of the film is Los Angeles rather than San Francisco and I had a totally different mental picture of what Earth would look like. In the novel, one gets the impression that there are only a few thousand people on the planet, which is decaying away into nothing due to the dust. In the film, L.A. is a vibrant, somewhat decaying city where there is massive pollution but no dust. Generally, I didn't like the film though this may be simply because I'm not used to or a fan of the film noir genre. <br />Near the end of the film, Deckard has to fight Roy Batty to retire him. In the novel, Roy just stands there and gets blasted. After some chasing, fighting and so on, there is the best scene of the whole film where Deckard is hanging onto a building by his fingertips about to fall off and Roy Batty is watching and then Roy catches Deckard just as he looses grip. Roy Batty then has the best lines of the film where he talks about life and then dies, as he is at the end of his four years. The great irony is that the hunted replicant ends up saving Deckard, his hunter who only knew his quarry due to a lack of emotions.	2001-06-01
US	49444977	R1NDSWIUXL93XN	0805062971	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Existentialism meets  nihilism in America	Where to begin? Style, I suppose. Palahnuik writes in a very abrupt and raw manner. There is a general feeling of despair in the novel and rebellion against society. The two characters are existential anti-heroes; they freely act and take responsibility for their actions in a world that is ultimately meaningless. Tyler Durden (the \\"leader) is the character that says most of the interesting lines. Just to define terms; I refer to existentialism in the tradition of Jean-Paul Sartre (1905-1980) and Albert Camus (1913-1960). I refer to nihilism in the sense of the belief that destruction of existing political or social institutions is necessary for future improvement. There is, perhaps, an element of Friedrich Wilhelm Nietzsche&#8217;s (1844-1900) philosophy as well.<br />Tyler starts two organizations in the novel (Fight Club and Project Mayhem) and I think the succession of the organizations mirrors the philosophical evolution in the novel. Fight Club is existenialist while Project Mayhem is nihilistic. \\"Fight Club,\\" is a gathering (it started in the basement of a bar) where men meet and fight each other. Afterwards, the narrator describes how he feels:<br />\\"After a night in fight club, everything in the real world gets the volume turned down. Nothing can piss you off. Your word is law, and if other people break the law or question you, even that doesn't piss you off.\\" (page 49)<br />It seems as though the man who was lost in materialism is now reenergized through fighting; he is living in the existential \\"now\\" and nothing else matters. <br />Later in the novel, Tyler realizes that the Fight Club members are becoming desensitized to hand-to-hand violence. To increase the &#8220;dosage,&#8221; Tyler invents what he calls \\"Project Mayhem.\\" This is probably best described as a cross between a terrorist group and a cult. At this point, everything starts to spin out of control... Project Mayhem and Fight Club are now beyond Tyler's control and the major revelation comes...<br />Tyler and the narrator are actually the same person. Tyler is the narrator's alter ego but I think Palahniuk keeps this well hidden (although there are occasional hints).<br />Some of the more thoughtful/jarring/vulgar quotes in the book may serve to give a snapshot of the novel.<br />\\" 'I embrace my own festering diseased corruption,' Marla tells the cherry on the end of the cigarette. Marla twists the cigarette into the soft white belly of her arm. 'Burn, witch, burn.'\\" (page 65)<br />\\"Only after disaster can we be resurrected. 'It's only after you've lost everything,' Tyler says, 'that you're free to do anything.'\\" (page 70)<br />\\"'I&#8217;m breaking my attachment to physical power and possession,' Tyler whispered, 'because only through destroying myself can     I discover the greater power of my spirit.'\\" (page 110)<br />\\"I wanted to burn the Louvre. I'd do the Elgin marbles with a sledge-hammer and wipe my (butt) with the Mona Lisa. This is my world, now.\\" (page 124)<br />\\"We are God's middle children, according to Tyler Durden, with no special place in history and ho special attention. Unless we get God's attention, we have no hope of damnation or redemption.\\" (page 141)<br />\\"The mechanic says, 'Believe in me and you shall die, forever.\\" (page 145)<br />\\"I look at God behine his desk, taking notes on a pad, but God's got this all wrong. We are not special. We are not crap or trash, either. We just are, and what happens just happens. And God says, 'No, that's not right.' Yeah. Well. Whatever. You can't teach God anything.\\" (page 207)<br />I think theses quotes give a good picture of what existentialism/nihilism do to one and one's worldview (The overall perspective from which one sees and interprets the world). If you want to read existentialist works, there are better pieces than this: Sartre and Camus are better than this. However, existentialism is fatally flawed and does not work as a philosophy.<br />Finally, in view of Philippians 4:8 (Finally, brethren, whatever things are noble, whatever things are just, whatever things are pure, whatever things are lovely, whatever things are of good report, if there is any virtue and if there is anything praiseworthy - meditate on these things.\\" NKJV), I would not recommend Fight Club.<br />Finally, to briefly compare it with the film, I'm not sure which was better. The ending in the novel was better, in my opinion. Also, I don't think the director was capable of properly handling the ideas of the book and it seems he turned the film into a violent, weird and deranged piece that was pointless. Not to say the book is not all these things; but the book was more than that.	2001-05-29
US	49444977	RMO1JDUWJ2WQK	1573921998	35800434	The Sacred Balance: Rediscovering Our Place in Nature	Books	4	16	31	N	N	Ecology and analysis of environmental problems solid	Dr. Suzuki is probably one of the best-known Canadian scientists living today and is one of the few who can present science to the non-specialist in an accessible fashion. Dr. Suzuki is probably best known for his long running television series, &quot;The Nature of Things,&quot; which airs on Canada's national television network, the CBC (Canadian Broadcasting Corporation).<br />To start with some introductory remarks, I found the Introduction, Chapter 1, and the last Chapter to be the most fascinating parts in the book. The first chapter discusses the dire state of the environment and how close we are to the point of &quot;no return.&quot; The last chapter is a collection of several stories of how individuals (including Suzuki's 12 year old daughter!) have, on their own, started NGOs (Non-Governmental Organizations) to plant trees, clean harbors and other practical activates to fix some of Earth's environmental problems.<br />The middle section, comprising little more than 1/3 of the book's content is an introduction to the &quot;Four Elements,&quot; (i.e. Air, Water, Earth and Fire). This is the most scientific section in the book and it was somewhat difficult to maintain interest in it. There are descriptions of the composition of air, the layers of soil, the composition of water and so on. I do realize that this sort of information is necessary to properly understand the environmental problems of our day though; in the same way one must understand some biology to understand genetic engineering or cloning.<br />There were some memorable quotes in the book. However when, Suzuki quotes others authors, he mentions titles, publishers etc but never the page numbers! It is quite annoying if one wanted to look up the context from which a quote came. Suzuki quotes from a wide variety of sources; the Romantic Poets, the Bible, ecologists, Native American spiritual texts etc...<br />My major problem with Suzuki is that he seems to frequently advocate monism as the way to solve many of the environmental problems facing us. In addition, he stretches the idea of the inter-dependence of life (e.g. food chains or food webs) to the idea of reincarnation. In other places, he incorrectly elevates the status of the created world by saying that the world has spirits in it and is conscious etc (i.e. animism). At one point he quotes Annie Dillard, author of, &quot;Teaching a Stone to Talk,&quot; (page 190), &quot;We as a people have moved from pantheism to pan-atheism.&quot; It almost seems that he's saying there are only two options: Enlightenment naturalism/atheism or Eastern/Native American pantheism or animism. <br />He devotes almost a whole chapter to the spiritual/philosophical aspect of environmental issues and doesn't give Christianity a hearing! <br />To conclude, Suzuki gives a harsh critique of Western consumerism, materialism and other ideas that have contributed to the consumption of Earth rather than the responsible stewardship of Earth. He offers several different ways that individuals can help to reduce environmental problems (e.g. taking public transport or walking/biking when traveling a distance of less than 10 blocks). However, Suzuki is way off in his spiritual answers here!	2001-05-24
US	49444977	R1F0J3QPWLE7J	0801021758	456765428	Will the Real Jesus Please Stand Up?: A Debate between William Lane Craig and John Dominic Crossan	Books	4	12	18	N	N	Jesus Seminar v.s. Christians: Seminar defeated!	After having seen documentary, after TV special, after A&amp;E special, after TV interview, I finally found the book that takes the Jesus Seminar to task. Throughout the 1990's, seventy academics came together and published books on Jesus. They a priori exclude miracles and are known to promote unreliable, legendary Gospels such as the Gnostic Gospel of Thomas. Another example is that Crossan (who with Robert Funk, founded the Jesus Seminar) says that the dogs that roamed the execution grounds probably ate Jesus' body and thus it was never buried. One last preliminary example is from the book, &quot;The Jesus Seminar and its Critics,&quot; by Robert Miller (a contributor to this book), &quot;For many Christians this belief (that Jesus claimed to be the incarnate Son of God who came to earth to save us from sin) is the essence of Christianity and the standard of orthodoxy. Since this way of understanding Jesus is so fundamental for so many Christians, it is crucial that we set it in proper perspective by recognizing that it is not a historical description of Jesus, but an affirmation of belief in his supernatural origin and divine mission.&quot; Even in this quote is the sharp (false) dichotomy to formulate a Jesus of history (the man who walked about ancient Israel who was not divine) and the Christ of faith (the divine one who is experienced today by Christians). Anyway, on to the debate.<br />The Debaters<br />Dr. William Lane Craig Position: Research professor at Talbot School of Theology<br />Ph. D - University of Birmingham, England (Philosophy) Th. D - Universität München (University of Munich), Germany (Theology)<br />Dr. Craig defends the traditional Christian position that God raised Jesus from the dead and so validated his personal claims to be God.<br />Dr. John Dominic Crossan<br />Position: Professor Emeritus of Religious Studies, DePaul University, Chicago <br />S.S.L., Pontifical Biblical Institute, Rome  D.D., Maynooth College, Ireland <br />Dr. Crossan denies the resurrection as a real historical event.<br />The Debate.<br />Dr. Craig opens with a strong presentation of the evidence regarding the resurrection of Jesus from the dead. He forms his argument in this fashion: &quot;Contention I: The real Jesus rose from the dead in confirmation of his radical personal claims to divinity. Contention II: If Contention I is false- that is, Jesus did not rise - then Christianity is a fairy tale in which no rational person should believe.&quot; (page 25)<br />To see further details of Dr. Craig's argument, see my review of, &quot;Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig and Gerd Ludemann.&quot;<br />Dr. Crossan<br />Dr. Crossan presents the presuppositions of liberal scholarship, the issue of Jesus of history vs. Christ of faith and the use of literal language (i.e. reporting of historical events) vs. metaphorical language (i.e. a fable that is fictional but which communicates moral values). Dr. Crossan seems to have some sort of subjectivist view here; at another point he says, &quot;The point is this: Where do we find our God? (To paraphrase) Do find him as the divine powerful Emperor Augustus I or the meek, born in a stable Jesus. Dr. Crossan's politically correct Christianity (embracing pluralism, abandoning truth and history for myth and subjectivism) is clear in his closing paragraph. He says there is a scenario where a Christian says to a Buddhist, all your stories about Buddha are false, but the stories about Jesus (e.g. virgin birth and resurrection) are true. Crossan puts it this way, &quot;I don't think that can be said any longer, for our insistence that our faith is fact and that others' faith is a lie is, I think, a cancer that eats at the heart of Christianity.&quot; (page 39) <br />The ensuing dialogue is not very debate-like. Crossan simply refuses to grapple with Craig and just keeps asserting (sans evidence) that his is simply another interpretation and that arguingover whose interpretation is true is foolish etc...<br />Dr. Craig made two interesting points; one in his rebuttal and one in the dialogue. First, that Crossan in his sharp (and I think unjustified) dichotomy between the Jesus of history (fact) and the Christ of faith (interpretation) essentially makes the term \\"Christ\\" meaningless (e.g. the Christ of the National Socialist Party in Germany, the Christ of the Mormons, the Christ of David Koresh or even the Christ of Jim Jones). Second, in the dialogue, Crossan, when pressed by Craig it seemed that Crossan considered theological questions (i.e. the existence of God) outside the realm of fact. It seems that he is embracing deism in favor of Christianity. The rest of the dialogue is spent discussing mechanics. This section could have been better; the moderator (William F. Buckley. Jr.) didn't seem to help in directing the conversation to important matters.<br />The Responses<br />Following the format  (I don't know in what order the debates occurred or were published though) of, \\"&quot;Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig and Gerd Ludemann,&quot; there are two scholars (Ben Witherington III and Craig L. Blomberg) who support one of the debaters (Craig) and vice-versa (Marcus Borg and Robert J. Miller). I note that Marcus Borg and Robert J. Miller are both Fellows of the Jesus Seminar. Miller's essay addresses the issue of who Christian apologetics are directed to (he concludes that apologetics are really intended for Christians) and has some examination of the resurrection narratives in an effort to prove that Gospels are of a mythological genre rather than a history genre. Blomberg provides detailed examination of both sides and suggests improvements. I can understand how Blomberg found the dialogue frustrating! Miller's piece attempts to show that the Gospels are not intended to be in the history genre. Miller's most foolish, nay heretical statement is that the truth of Easterdoes not depend on the historicity of Christ's physical resurrection. <br />Dr. Craig ends with a powerful response that addresses all of the scholars and takes them apart; he shows that i) Jesus' physical resurrection is true and that ii) Christianity depends upon i).	2001-05-23
US	49444977	R2EP6TZT82ZW9W	080281025X	724050977	New Testament Documents: Are They Reliable?	Books	5	22	26	N	N	New Testament is historical; good introduction to evidence	This book deals with the question of whether the events recorded in it are historical (i.e. did they actually happen)? As such, the primary focus of the book is on the Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke and John) and Acts (tells the first 30 or so years of Christianity). This book does not address the existence of God, evolution or other apologetic topics; it deals specifically with the New Testament from the perspective of a historian.<br />Bruce starts the book with an Introduction, which shows that Christianity depends on certain historical events; it is not an ethical system or a metaphysical system first. It is the Gospel; that Jesus was born, did and said certain things, died and was resurrected. <br />Often when one reads about the evidence for the New Testament, it is very general. In this book, that is not the case. For example, in the chapter, &quot;The Writings of Luke,&quot; Bruce mentions how Luke knew specific titles of Roman officials and why this is significant. Bruce also examines the Gentile (i.e. non-Jewish) evidence regarding early Christianity and Jesus. He cites Tacitus, Suetonius and a letter of Pliny the Younger. In the chapter on Early Jewish Writings, Bruce examines what little the Talmud says about Jesus and then goes into more depth about Flavius Josephus; Bruce investigates the idea that Christians have edited Josephus. The chapter, \\"More Archaeological Evidence,\\" was probably the most interesting chapter for me in this book. It discusses specific finds that have a bearing on the New Testament and I had not previously encountered most of them in other apologetic works. Bruce does note one of the difficulties of finding New Testament Jerusalem sites. The Romans destroyed the city in 70 A.D. and a pagan city was rebuilt in its place in 135 A.D.; so it is surprising that anything is found. <br />Bruce also discusses the evidence regarding what happened in Acts 14:12 where the people of Lystra wrongly think that Paul and Barnabus are the Greek gods Zeus and Hermes. Bruce discusses the background to this and puts this curious event in its proper historical context. At the close of the chapter, Bruce very briefly looks at the so-called \\"Gospel of Thomas\\" and says it shows Gnostic influence but that the reader should look to other works for a discussion and evaluation.<br />Bruce, of course, deals with the Gospels at great length. I found this section the most difficult to go through; it just seemed very boring to read about the textual history of the Gospels. He does cover the Synoptic Problem and the Gospel of John as well. I think Bruce also makes a good point with his chapter about the Apostle Paul; several details about Jesus are known from Paul's writings which are independent, earlier and in agreement with the Gospels (e.g. Jesus is a descendent of David, was betrayed, endured the Roman punishment of crucifixion and instituted a memorial meal of bread and wine etc..).<br />The one drawback with reprinting a book originally published in 1943 is that many of the works that Bruce cites or footnotes are old. There are many works quoted from that were published from 1900-1950 and these books are difficult to look up if you want further information. However, Bruce partially makes up for this with his \\"Suggestions for Further Reading,\\" at the end of the book which has works published in the 1960's-1970's. <br />I would recommend this book to someone who has the interest and patience to get into the New Testament and history; I don't think I would call it a popular level work but if you want information about the New Testament, this 12	2001-05-23
US	49444977	R23WB9PR8R5BO	080281025X	724050977	New Testament Documents: Are They Reliable?	Books	5	10	11	N	N	New Testament is historical; good introduction to evidence	This book deals with the question of whether the events recorded in it are historical (i.e. did they actually happen)? As such, the primary focus of the book is on the Gospels (Matthew, Mark, Luke and John) and Acts (tells the first 30 or so years of Christianity). This book does not address the existence of God, evolution or other apologetic topics; it deals specifically with the New Testament from the perspective of a historian.<br />Bruce starts the book with an Introduction, which shows that Christianity depends on certain historical events; it is not an ethical system or a metaphysical system first. It is the Gospel; that Jesus was born, did and said certain things, died and was resurrected. <br />Often when one reads about the evidence for the New Testament, it is very general. In this book, that is not the case. For example, in the chapter, &quot;The Writings of Luke,&quot; Bruce mentions how Luke knew specific titles of Roman officials and why this is significant. Bruce also examines the Gentile (i.e. non-Jewish) evidence regarding early Christianity and Jesus. He cites Tacitus, Suetonius and a letter of Pliny the Younger. In the chapter on Early Jewish Writings, Bruce examines what little the Talmud says about Jesus and then goes into more depth about Flavius Josephus; Bruce investigates the idea that Christians have edited Josephus. The chapter, \\"More Archaeological Evidence,\\" was probably the most interesting chapter for me in this book. It discusses specific finds that have a bearing on the New Testament and I had not previously encountered most of them in other apologetic works. Bruce does note one of the difficulties of finding New Testament Jerusalem sites. The Romans destroyed the city in 70 A.D. and a pagan city was rebuilt in its place in 135 A.D.; so it is surprising that anything is found. <br />Bruce also discusses the evidence regarding what happened in Acts 14:12 where the people of Lystra wrongly think that Paul and Barnabus are the Greek gods Zeus and Hermes. Bruce discusses the background to this and puts this curious event in its proper historical context. At the close of the chapter, Bruce very briefly looks at the so-called \\"Gospel of Thomas\\" and says it shows Gnostic influence but that the reader should look to other works for a discussion and evaluation.<br />Bruce, of course, deals with the Gospels at great length. I found this section the most difficult to go through; it just seemed very boring to read about the textual history of the Gospels. He does cover the Synoptic Problem and the Gospel of John as well. I think Bruce also makes a good point with his chapter about the Apostle Paul; several details about Jesus are known from Paul's writings which are independent, earlier and in agreement with the Gospels (e.g. Jesus is a descendent of David, was betrayed, endured the Roman punishment of crucifixion and instituted a memorial meal of bread and wine etc..).<br />The one drawback with reprinting a book originally published in 1943 is that many of the works that Bruce cites or footnotes are old. There are many works quoted from that were published from 1900-1950 and these books are difficult to look up if you want further information. However, Bruce partially makes up for this with his \\"Suggestions for Further Reading,\\" at the end of the book which has works published in the 1960's-1970's. <br />I would recommend this book to someone who has the interest and patience to get into the New Testament and history; I don't think I would call it a popular level work but if you want information about the New Testament, this 120-page book is a good start.	2001-05-23
US	49444977	R3N3ZVEXIPN52	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Existentialism and despair from a good writer	I read this book when I was researching the philosophy of existentialism. As far as the 20th century goes, Jean-Paul Sartre was probably more influential than Albert Camus in the movement. Camus wrote only in literary genres whereas Sartre wrote formal philosophical works in addition to novels and plays.<br />Anyway, the novel moves very slowly (about 10 months of people suffering from plague) in a town called Oran in Algeria in the 1940's. Camus' contribution to existentialism was the concept of the Absurd (the condition or state in which human beings exist in a meaningless, irrational universe wherein people's lives have no purpose or meaning) and this concept is present in this novel. Aside from the slow pace, I find the whole philosophy illogical and somewhat ridiculous. The despair of existentialism brings to a head the problems when one abandons God.<br />One of the most interesting parts in the novel is where Dr. Rieux (the narrator) and Tarrou discuss the Plague (which may be interpreted as a metaphor for the struggles of life). Tarrou says of the Doctor's medical struggle against the Plague, &quot;But your victories will never be lasting; that's all.&quot; Then Tarrou asks, &quot;Only, I now can picture what this plague must mean for you.&quot; The Doctor replies, &quot;Yes. A never ending defeat.&quot; (page 128). In another instance, Tarrou and Rieux are discussing God. Rieux says, &quot;Do you believe in God, Doctor?&quot; &quot;No... I'm fumbling in the dark, struggling to make something out.&quot; (page 126). On page 127, Rieux says that he is &quot;... fighting against creation as he found it.&quot; This quote evokes the thought of an existentialist who shakes his fist against the Heavens and then seeks to live out his life in a struggle that is ultimately meaningless. One of the most poignant quotes describes the state of the townspeople, &quot;Hostile to the past, impatient of the present, and cheated of the future, we were much like those whom men's justice, or hatred, forces to live behind prison bars.&quot; (page 73).<br />This novel communicates how existentialists see life: despair, suffering, pain and evil. The &quot;happy&quot; ending could be seen as a mere lull in the storm and I think the novel would have had a more forceful impact if this ending were omitted. The one idea that I could draw from the ending was the idea that we must enjoy the -&gt;moment&lt;- for all its worth because we are only here a for a moment; life is ultimately ephemeral and meaningless. This could be called the existentialist \\"hope\\"; though existence has no meaning we can somehow bravely infuse meaning into it through our choices. Why after all this did I give a 4-star rating? I think this novel is a good example of literary existentialism and I think I now understand the philosophy better. However, the philosophy is desperately wrong so, I took off one star. For a Christian evaluation of the philosophy, see Ravi Zacharias' lectures and his book, \\"Can Man Live Without God?\\"<br />I wonder how this novel compares with Camus' two other well-known works, \\"The Fall,\\" and the Stranger (L'&Eacute;tranger). I will probably read them later this year.s justice, or hatred, forces to live behind prison bars.&quot; (page 73). <br />This novel communicates how existentialists see life: despair, suffering, pain and evil. The &quot;happy&quot; ending could be seen as a mere lull in the storm and I think the novel would have had a more forceful impact if this ending were omitted. The one idea that I could draw from the ending was the idea that we must enjoy the -&gt;moment&lt;- for all its worth because we are only here a for a moment; life is ultimately ephemeral and meaningless. This could be called the existentialist \\"hope\\"; though existence has no meaning we can somehow bravely infuse meaning into it through our choices. Why after all this did I give a 4-star rating? I think this novel is a good example of literary existentialism and I think I now understand the philosophy better. However, the philosophy is desperately wrong so, I took off one star. For a Christian evaluation of the philosophy, see Ravi Zacharias' lectures and his book, \\"Can Man Live Without God?\\"<br />I wonder how this novel compares with Camus' two other well-known works, \\"The Fall,\\" and the Stranger (L'Étranger). I will probably read them later this year.	2001-05-13
US	49444977	RQQBDPZN8GDR1	083081793X	968568407	Know the Truth: A Handbook of Christian Belief	Books	5	29	31	N	N	A balanced, biblical introduction to Christian truth!	Milne has produced a fine introduction to Christian truth (i.e. theology) and I found this book very useful. I think Milne was wise to begin with, &quot;The final authority in matters of faith,&quot; namely the Bible. Milne says that there are two sources of special revelation: The Incarnate Word (i.e. Jesus Christ Himself) and the Word (which is the Bible). Milne then examines what Jesus said about the Bible, what the Apostles said about it, inspiration, and the ideas of infallible vs. inerrant and so on.<br />I particularly liked his section on ecclesiology (the doctrine of the Church); it is a field that I have not studied much and it was good to get a biblical introduction to it. The section on the Person and Work of Jesus Christ was very good as well; Milne affirms the orthodox position that Christ is 100% man and 100% God. Milne also examines many of the historical heresies that were advanced against this (e.g. the Doetic heresy; that Jesus was God and merely appeared to be human or the Ebionite heresy; that Jesus was just a human being and was not God) and how they fail to agree with the Bible. Milne addresses the most sensationalized of doctrines \\"the last things,\\" (i.e. eschatology; especially in the Book of Revelation); he outlines what we know for certain from the Bible and what is less clear. He also examines different perspectives on the Millennium.<br />To comment on the approach the Milne uses throughout the book, I would have to say that he is very balanced and sober. Often, he will briefly look at a few views on an issue and consider the biblical texts cited in support. Milne is also cautious; he is not dogmatic on issues where the Bible is not dogmatic. Also, throughout the book, there are end of section review questions (if you wanted to lead an intensive series of Bible studies, these questions could be used), all the various Scriptures cited (and arranged by topic e.g. Atonement in the Old Testament, Christ the prophet, Christ the priest and justification) are helpful as well. Milne also has mini-Bibliographies at the end of every section. My only possible criticism is that many of the works he cites in his Bibliography are old, likely out of print books (i.e. from 1960's or 1970's). There is also an Index at the end of the book, which gives the book a ready-reference function. However, I am reading the 1982 edition of the book (ISBN 0-87784-392-9), so that &quot;problem&quot; might have been addressed in this new 1999 edition.<br />I would very much recommend this book to all new Christians to get a firm footing in Christian doctrine. The book could also be described as the Bible doctrinally arranged; Want to know who God is? Want to know the nature of humanity? Want to know what the Church is supposed to be?	2001-05-09
US	49444977	R1LJWWR8JCEY2Z	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	2	2	N	N	The violent fourteenth century...	To start, this is my first Crichton book. I have seen a number of his films: Sphere, The Lost World and Sphere. Of those three, I found Sphere the most interesting. <br />My thoughts about the book are mixed. There were some parts that I found fascinating and some parts that I found tiresome. <br />Positive Aspects<br />I confess that I am a history buff, so I liked the archeological dig in France and I liked some of the ideas there. I wonder whether the field of &quot;experimental history,&quot; actually exists; I know there are historical recreations (e.g. US Civil War in USA or Roman Empire in Europe) but the idea of it as a University discipline is original, as far as I know. The character of Doniger (more specifically, his speech near the end of the book and elsewhere) is notable for his ideas. I wished that Crichton had furthered explored the corporate side of the story. The quantum technology was interesting (Crichton's introduction helped in giving some background on this) and right now, it is so new that nobody knows what it can and cannot do.<br />The descriptions of the 14th century were very good and it was obvious that Crichton had done some research here. I was impressed to see a 4-page bibliography; this is the first novel that I have read that contains a bibliography. Crichton notes some of the books that he found particularly useful; I may look up some of them for further reading in the future.<br />Negative aspects<br />All of the main characters are late 20th century historians (albeit one of them trains with swords, jousts and other mediaeval practices)... They all survive numerous fights with fourteenth century soldiers, knights who are not only much more experienced than they are but also more well armed and physically stronger. I think it is implausible that these characters would survive so many times in battle. If the characters had been in the royal court and had to survive to their wits, I think it would have made better sense. The companythat provides the time travel company could have been more complex; some internal scheming or perhaps balance the absolute power of Doniger against another character.<br />I quite liked the book; the constant warfare and bloodletting battles was quite a change from my usual reading and a little variety is good.	2001-05-02
US	49444977	R3P13OX2Y32Z5T	083082250X	637972625	Know Why You Believe	Books	4	56	58	N	N	Beginner-level introduction to Christian apologetics	Having read several books on apologetics myself, I found Little's book quite good. His presentation is easy to follow and the beginner will find it very manageable. It is a short book that new Christians or Christians approaching apologetics (the rational defence of Christianity) for the first time, will find useful.<br />Little's methodology is good as well. His dispels presuppositions that a priori prevent one from even considering Christianity. Little also has some ability to come up with memorable epigrams (though he is not as good at this as G.K. Chesterton and C.S. Lewis are, in my opinion). <br />Little covers the following questions: Is Christianity Rational?  Is There a God?  Is Christ God?  Did Christ Rise from the Dead?  Is the Bible God's Word?  Are the Bible Documents Reliable?  Does Archaeology Verify Scripture?  Are Miracles Possible?  Do Science &amp; Scripture Agree?  Why Does God Allow Suffering &amp; Evil?  Does Christianity Differ from Other World Religions? <br />Is Christian Experience Valid? <br />In a book that is only 171 pages in length (excluding study questions), Little covers each topic quite quickly. Thankfully, he includes a &quot;For Further Reading,&quot; section at the end of every chapter. Little's section on Science &amp; Scripture was good as well (as one might expect, he covers the issue of origins). Little is careful to define terms (i.e. micro-evolution vs. macro-evolution) and I think he wisely notes that science is constantly changing (whereas the Bible is static), so one must be cautious not to absolutely weld contemporary scientific theories to the Bible.<br />The section on Christianity and other religions was mediocre. However, most Christian apologetic materials that read have suffered from the same problem. The standard approaches usually starts with a few thoughts on the nature of truth (especially the logical law of non-contradiction), then assert and prove the deity of Christ and then assume all other religions fall. While I see that this approach definitely works, I think it would helpful to interact with other religions and analyze them at a deep level. Anyway, I am demanding too much from a popular level book here. Little discussed (in 3-5 paragraphs each!) Buddhism, Hinduism and Islam and pointed some of their beliefs and the difficulties associated with them.<br />The nature of Christian experience is not a philosophical issue in the same way that the issue of miracles are, so the question must be approached differently. Little's explanation that Christian experience is based on historical facts (the life, death and resurrection of Jesus Christ) provides the context for understanding Christian experience. <br />Little ends with a challenge to personally commit oneself to Christianity.<br />The extensive study questions (about 10 per chapter) at the end of the book may be useful if one wanted to use the book as a study tool for a Bible Study group or something similar.<br />I would recommend this book as an introduction to the defence of Christianity or as a short review for old hands. However, the experienced reader may want deeper works to digest. Two good books for more advanced study: Reasonable Faith by William Lane Craig and Scaling the Secular City by J.P. Moreland.	2001-04-29
US	49444977	R3H9WSB7HJHAG8	1581341725	595486734	The Consequences of Ideas: Understanding the Concepts that Shaped Our World	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Excellcent overview of Western philosophy!	This book covers roughly 2,500 years of Western philosophy from Plato to Jean-Paul Sartre. Sproul's sections on Karl Marx, Friedrich Nietzsche and the section on the influence of Charles Darwin and Sigmund Freud (even though they cannot properly be called philosophers) were the most insightful sections in the book. The conclusion was excellent as well.<br />Sproul opens the book with an introduction to what philosophy is and why he is interested in it. I think his definition that philosophy is foundational thinking is simple and very accurate. His attention to epistemology (The branch of philosophy that studies the nature of knowledge, its presuppositions and foundations, and its extent and validity) throughout the book was a good to choice. Sproul's explanation of the various philosophers was accessible; the use of diagrams (e.g. his illustration of Kierkegaard and Hegel's synthesis) will help those who are totally unfamiliar with philosophy.<br />Many readers will probably say that the book is far too short (at 203 pages), but I think Sproul's objective was to provide a concise introduction. I think the book could be twice the length and still be concise (then he could have included Pragmatism and perhaps even an Eastern philosopher or two). I think that the book failed to do accomplish its title. What do I mean? I think except for a few places (e.g. Marx), he failed to show the consequences of these ideas. Examples of how these ideas have impacted society would make philosophy more relevant. At the same time, I recognize that perhaps Sproul wanted to reader to reflect on these ideas and then realize when these ideas have influenced the arts, politics etc but I think he failed to show how these ideas have worked themselves out (again, there are a few exceptions) in our world. Also, he rarely mentioned the Christian response to these philosophers; I think perhaps an annotated bibliography of Christian books responding to each philosophical movement (i.e. rationalism, empiricism, Marxism or existentialism) would have been helpful. One book I can recommend that evaluates some of these philosophers (e.g. Kant, Hume, Plato and others) is Norman Geisler's, \\"Baker Encyclopedia of Christian Apologetics.\\" <br />I would recommend this book for Christians who want to learn about philosophy but don't know where to begin.	2001-04-25
US	49444977	R3IQ9UJTV46EBE	1556618190	194834301	The Roman Catholic Controversy	Books	4	32	50	N	N	Critical, in depth evaluation of official Roman Catholicism	Background<br />James White is a Protestant in the fullest sense of the word. He holds to all the great doctrines of the Protestant Reformation (e.g. sola scriptura, sola fide, sola gratia and soli Deo Gloria. In English, that is: the Scriptures alone, by faith alone, by grace alone and to God alone be the glory). Dr. White's ministry, &quot;Alpha and Omega Ministries,&quot; confronts Mormons (i.e. Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-Day Saints), Jehovah's Witnesses (i.e. The Watchtower Bible and Tract Society) and, of course, Roman Catholics with the truths of biblical Christianity. I have listened to Dr. White debate Roman Catholics several times and I was fairly impressed by him.<br />Dr. White's education: M.A. in Theology (Fuller Theological Seminary) Th.D. n Apologetics (Columbia Evangelical Seminary)<br />In addition to being the Director of Alpha and Omega Ministries, Dr. White is Adjunct Professor at Golden Gate Baptist Theological Seminary (I am not sure about this though; he may hold this as well as another position).<br />The Book<br />Dr. White opens by focusing on the essential issues, as distinguished from non-essentials.  Two of the absolutely important essentials are: <br />1. What is the Christian's religious authority?<br />2. How is one saved?<br />The Answers?<br />1. The Bible is the only infallible rule for Christian faith and practice (i.e. sola Scriptura)<br />2. By having faith alone in Christ alone. (i.e. sola fide)<br />With these two concepts as the critical foundation, Dr. White evaluates the claims of the Roman Catholic Papacy (I was impressed by his exegesis of Matthew 16: 18-19), as well purgatory, indulgences and the many traditions of the Roman Catholic Church.<br />Methodology<br />Dr. White is careful to quote from *official* Roman Catholic Church documents whenever possible so as to accurately represent the Roman position. Some of the Church documents he quotes from are the Council of Trent (1545-1563), the Catechism of the Catholic Church, Vatican I (1869-1870), Vatican II (1962-1965), and other ecumenical Councils. In addition, he also quotes Roman Catholic theologians. The footnotes are 35 pages in length and frequently Dr. White will examine specific Greek words in the footnotes. Please note, Dr. White is examining the Church as an institution; he is not attacking Roman Catholic individuals. <br />Evaluation<br />While the book is very through, it can be difficult reading at times. Discussions of Greek are here and there in the text; these can be difficult for the non-specialist (such as myself) to appreciate. I think the book is quite good in what it sets out to do: evaluate Roman Catholicism by the standard of the Bible.	2001-04-24
US	49444977	R1VWFWY9IRTH5K	0802713122	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Interesting history of 18th century science and navigation	This book records the history of determining longitude (i.e. east/west position) at sea. This may seem to be something of a trivial issue at first glance. However, centuries ago, ships, cargo and men were frequently lost because captains could not accurately determine their location. To gain an appreciation of how difficult the longitude problem was to solve, compare it to our modern efforts to develop a cure for cancer.<br />The man who &quot;solved&quot; (he died before his clocks were mass produced but his pioneering efforts were absolutely crucial) the problem was a carpenter and a watchmaker named John Harrison. His watches were among the most accurate in the history of time keeping. When he heard of the Longitude Act (the British government established a prize to anyone who could invent a usable and practical way of finding longitude at sea), Harrison set to work. His clocks were tremendously innovative; he solved the problems that plagued previous clocks on sea voyages (e.g. the metals in the clock would expand when in tropical climate and contact in Europe; these changes would render the clock unreliable). Harrison once built a clock that was almost entirely built of wood (with the exception of some brass parts); this clock never needed lubrication! <br />In the competition to win the £20,000 (roughly equivalent to several million modern American dollars), there were many quacks who advanced their various ideas but there emerged two dominant methods which vied for success. The clock method (How does this work? \\"To learn one's longitude at sea, one needs to what time it is aboard ship and also the time at the home port or another place of known longitude - at the very same moment. The two clocks enable the navigator to convert the hour difference into a geographical separation.\\" Pages 4-5). However, this required a very precise clock and all clocks of the day were incapable of such precision. The other approach relied on the movement of the Moon relative toother celestial bodies. The astronomical approach continued to be championed by much of the scientific elite but it initially required four hours of calculations to determine longitude (this was eventually reduced to 30 minutes) and one had to have a clear sky (in order to see the Moon etc..) The Board of Longitude (which functioned as the Government body to determine who is to win the prize and give out grants to prospective men) subjected Harrison's various watches (he made four different ones, all different. The first three were very large and the last was about 5 inches in diameter) to many tests including observation at Greenwich Observatory, sea trials, disassembly before a panel of experts, reassembly and so on. <br />I found the intrigues of the various scientists interesting; it is not a phenomenon limited to the 20th century by any means. Harrison was looked down upon because he was what was called a \\"Mechanick,\\" (i.e. a tinkering engineer) and the highly educated, academic astronomers did not think such a man capable of solving the vexing problem of longitude.<br />I have an interest in ships and their role in European empire building (e.g. the Dutch, French and British empires) and commerce and through reading this book I gained an appreciation of just how vital this piece of technology was to navigation in an age where radio and GPS were simply unavailable. Also, the idea of a Government sponsoring scientists to solve scientific problems (i.e. the concept of grants) seems to be pioneered here.<br />What not 5 stars? The technical descriptions of the mechanisms Harrison invented were difficult to visualize; some diagrams or even actual pictures of the devices would have been very helpful. I would also have liked to see some pictures of the various scientists involved.	2001-04-24
US	49444977	R3H8U1H25G8UXK	0842313354	136742732	Chosen by God	Books	4	15	17	N	N	A strong presentation of Calvinism	Calvinism... The word conjures up images of a God who pulls the puppet strings of human beings, compelling them to do His will.<br />However, many great Christians have held to what is now called Calvinism (e.g. Augustine, Martin Luther, John Calvin, and Jonathan Edwards). <br />Sproul is careful to carefully define all his terms and presents a strong case for Calvinism from the Bible. His writing is generally easy to follow (occasionally, it becomes a little difficult) and he dispels many of the myths concerning Calvinism.<br />To highlight what Calvinism is all about, it is necessary to understand the Calvinist (or Reformed) understanding of the spiritual condition of man. After the Fall, (by the way, Sproul defines original sin very precisely and accurately), humanity is spiritually dead... Only the active intervention of God will bring resurrect the spiritually dead. I could go on discussing what Calvinism is all about but you would best to read the book. For those familiar with TULIP (Total Depravity, Unconditional Election, Limited Atonement, Irresistible Grace and Perseverance of the Saints), Sproul does not deal with Limited Atonement in any detail (he said that it would require a whole book to properly delineate it). Sproul also ably deals with the charge of double predestination very well. <br />Overall, I would recommend the book for anyone wondering what Calvinism is all about, whether you be a Calvinist or an Arminian.	2001-04-18
US	49444977	R1U8SUDBX9YGXZ	0374520011	107612170	Mystics and Zen Masters	Books	3	31	83	N	N	This book is all over the place...	Thomas Merton (1915-1968) was a Roman Catholic monk who frequently wrote on religious topics. This particular book, however, is quite scattered. The format is a collection of essays and articles with no seeming link, paper to paper. Some of the better essays are:  &quot;Classic Chinese Thought&quot; &quot;From Pilgrimage to Crusade&quot; &quot;The Jesuits in China&quot; &quot;Pleasant Hill&quot;<br />Merton states his goal in these terms, &quot;All these studies are united by one central concern: to understand various ways in which men of different traditions have conceived the meaning and method of the 'way' which leads to the highest levels of religious or of metaphysical awareness.&quot;<br />Some of his essays (notably &quot;The English Mystics,&quot; and, &quot;Russian Mystics,&quot;) are so detailed (and obtuse) that I understood little of what he was talking about. I wondered at this point what Merton's intended audience was... Obviously, someone who has a fairly solid working knowledge of monasticism and mysticism. However, the detail he goes into quickly becomes difficult (and even boring) for the uninitiated. <br />&quot;Classic Chinese Thought,&quot; is an exposition of ancient Chinese thought and is definitely the most clear and accessible piece in the whole book, in my opinion. &quot;From Pilgrimage to Crusade,&quot; traces the original idea of being a pilgrim (i.e. an act of penance for serious sins) to the frankly military enterprise which captured Jerusalem in 1099 A.D. &quot;The Jesuits in China,&quot; was also a very interesting study in missions; the Jesuits did not import their European heritage initially when they came to China. They slowly became Chinese (inasmuch as this is possible for Westerners) and thus were better able to conduct evangelism. Though this essay was somewhat unorthodox in some areas, I found it to be new perspective on missions. \\"Pleasant Hill,\\" describes an American group known as Shakers (they were something of a cross between Mennonites and Pentecostals); they existed from the American Revolution to about 1850. They really personified the idea of the Protestant work ethic and I found the group very interesting. It is unfortunate that the Industrial Revolution (which made their hand made goods obsolete, to oversimplify) and their celibacy (they lived in isolated communities and refused to marry and have children; so unless new people joined the order, it was only a matter of time before it collapsed) slowly eliminated them.<br />Merton's pluralism is very problematic, to say the least. He takes those oft quoted words from Vatican II, &quot;The Catholic Church rejects nothing of what is true and holy in these religions,&quot; and stretches them. I personally hold that the Holy Spirit is active in other (i.e. non-Christian) religions to prepare them for Christian evangelism, I still maintain that salvation is only to be found in Christ (i.e. John 14:6. Acts 4:12. 1 Timothy 2:5). Merton castigates his fellow Catholics for dismissing Eastern Religions; I agree that to properly to show the insufficiency of non-Christian religions, one must have some knowledge of them<br />To end on a positive note, I think Merton does an admirable attempt to provide something of a definition for that ever-illusive way of the East, Zen Buddhism. At one point, he describes Zen Buddhism as the religious existentialism of the East; this is one of the briefest definitions I have yet come across. <br />Overall, I would *not* recommend this book.	2001-04-15
US	49444977	R3DG9KD1MHGOH7	0449213447	370928266	The Chosen	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A great picture of Judaism in 1940's America	This book was very good. It chronicles the teenage years and early adulthood of two Jews: Daniel (Danny) Saunders is the son of a very conservative Rabbi and Reuven Malter, son of a significantly more liberal Jewish father.<br />Time period: June 4, 1944 (when the Allies captured Rome) to approximately May 14, 1948 (when the State of Israel was proclaimed).<br />Setting: Williamsborg, a neighborhood in Brooklyn, New York City, New York, United States of America<br />In the novel, Danny and Reuven become friends and they frequently discuss books, ideas and, of course, the Talmud. The Talmud is an ancient collection of commentaries on the Torah (the first five books of the Bible in the Old Testament). More times than I can remember, the characters clash over the interpretation of some Talmudic passage and then they consult Medieval Jewish commentaries written on the Talmud. <br />One of the interesting issues in the novel was the idea of Zionism and Israel. The conservatives forcefully oppose its creation, arguing that only the Messiah can reinstate Israel and to setup up a secular State (what the Zionists were arguing for) is apostasy. The pro-Zionist position is argued for by David Malter (Reuven's father), \\"My father sighed. `Reb Saunders sits and waits for the Messiah,' he said. `I am tired of waiting. Now is the time to bring the Messiah, not to wait for him.'\\" (page 207). While Reb Saunders (Danny's father) argues passionately against the Zionist cause, \\"\\"The land of Abraham, Issac, and Jacob should be built by Jewish goyim, by contaminated men?\\" Reb Saunders shouted again. \\"Never! Not while I live! Who says these things? Who says we should now build Eretz Yisroel? And where is the Messiah Tell me, we should forget completely about the Messiah? For this six million of our people were slaughtered? That we should forget completely about the Messiah, that we should forget completely about the Master of the Universe? Why do you think I brought my family from Russiato America and not to Eretz Yisroel? Because it is better to live in a land of true goyim than to live a land of Jewish goyim! Who says we should build Eretz Yisroel, ah? I'll tell you who says it! Apikorsim [Heretics who reject the teachings of the Rabbis] say it! Jewish goyim say it! True Jews so not say such a thing!\\" (pages 187-188). In the college that Danny and Reuven attend, there is incredible tension over the issue; only the Dean's threat to instantly expel anybody who starts a fight keeps the peace. <br />The story is also one of dynasty, because for generation, the Saunders family have been Rabbis and Reb Saunders expects his son Danny to continue the dynasty. However, Danny is far more interested in psychology (especially Sigmund Freud) and hopes that his younger sickly brother will be take his responsibility instead. Reuven is quite skilled at mathematics and initially he plans to go into a career of teaching mathematics at the university level; one of his major interests is symbolic logic. However, by the end of the novel, Reuven decides to become a Rabbi and Danny a clinical psychologist. <br />The closing pages where Reb Saunders talks about his son are very touching. He laments that he knew early on that his son Danny was tremendously gifted (Danny has great memorization speed and can read very quickly). However, he feared that Danny would become a mind in a body with no heart and become, as Reb's brother had, \\"It [his brother's mind] was proud, haughty, impatient with less brilliant minds, grasping in its search for knowledge the way a conqueror grasps for power. It could not understand pain, it was indifferent to and impatient with suffering.\\" (page 264). However, his hard discipline and the suffering Danny endured eventually produced a great heart; he had become a tzaddik (a righteous man who has conquers his &quot;evil inclinations,&quot; towards pride, power and oppression, and practices righteousness and humility, and who is, like God, alwayson &quot;the side of the oppressed.)&quot; The profound Jewish understanding of suffering, as seen in the later part of the Old Testament (especially in the Major Prophets and Lamentations) is manifested here.<br />I now have some small measure of understanding for what it must be like to be a Jew in such a thoroughly Gentile (non-Jewish) land such as America (Jews comprise 1.8% of the population). Maintaining one's identity and faith is very difficult and one must constantly struggle to avoid being assimilated. Here there is a lesson for Christians, who in North America, are living in an increasing secular society. Christians must keep in mind that to be salt (see Matthew 5:13) light (see Matthew 5:14) is to be a postive influence IN THE WORLD to conform it to God's standards.	2001-04-05
US	49444977	R3DCXZ9ZILFEXP	0801038707	788741613	Fit Bodies Fat Minds:  Why Evangelicals Don't Think and What to Do About It (Hourglass Books)	Books	4	38	39	N	N	A corrective to evangelicalism	In this book, Dr. Guiness sets out to show the decline of the Christian mind in America in the past 200 years. He also reflects on the importance of the decline of Christian thought in American evangelicalism and its impact on Christian effectiveness in society. <br />Guiness sketches eight different ways in which the &quot;high point&quot; of the Puritan Christian mind has declined; Polarization, Pietism, Primitivism, Populism, Pluralism, Pragmatism, Philistinism and Premillenialism. <br />While I would generally agree with much of his analysis here, I wondered how Arminianism (in contrast to Calvinism) has contributed to the decline. It was a very interesting idea; the Arminian-Calvinist issue is one I'm currently exploring in my own study. His section on eschatology (the doctrine of last things; Christ's return, Rapture etc..) was also strange; eschatology is not a field that I have studied. I would agree that an excessive preoccupation with &quot;end-times&quot; can distract Christians from acting in the present (which seems to be his point) but otherwise I don't really see the significance of this point. One idea that came up several times in this section is the degradation of belief, theology and doctrine; a shift that has severely affected American evangelicalism. One of the memorable quotes in the Pluralism chapter from G.K. Chesterton, \\"Tolerance is the virtue of those who don't believe anything.\\" Chesterton and Guiness were no doubt referring to the philosophical position of tolerance (i.e. regarding all propositions as true) rather than the idea of simply peacefully co-existing. This is personified in such quotes from Billy Sunday as, \\"I do not know any more about theology than a jack-rabbit knew about pin-pong.\\"<br />However, each chapter is very short (4-6 pages) and I would have appreciated more documentation and evidence of what he was trying to show. To me, it seems that these small chapters could have quite comfortably been enlarged to 25-30 pages.His next section is about various secular influences on Christian thought (esp. the media, television and advertising). Again, his analysis seems too brief. His discussion of the contemporary image-centered culture versus the Christian word-centered (see John 1:1, &quot;In the beginning was the Word..&quot;). I think this contrast was very insightful and it is a reminder that the means or medium, which is used to communicate, also says something (e.g. short, shallow, emotional commercials valued over slow, deep, thoughtful and propositional debate). Or as Marshall McLuhan said, &quot;The medium is the message.&quot; <br />Guiness' last section discusses what it means to, &quot;think Christianly&quot; and what steps can be taken to recover evangelical preeminence in American culture. <br />In sum, I would have appreciated this book to be double its actual length. I had the feel that ideas were being mentioned in an almost passing manner and that much more could have been said.	2001-03-30
US	49444977	R27LCN5N1TOYD1	0688136915	57559703	Biomimicry: Innovation Inspired By Nature	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A fasinating new paradigm for science.	The way of thinking about the Earth in Western culture has been, &quot;Take what we want from Earth; make things with toxic side-effects, farm the land to death, pretend there is an ever-extending horizon to be used once an area is exhausted and polluted by us and so on.&quot;<br />The basic thesis of the book is that this old paradigm is fatally wrong. It will lead us to the destruction of Earth and ourselves. Instead, we must learn to copy nature's (specifically biology's) designs and use them. The author looks at agriculture, computing, power, medicine etc...<br />There were interesting accounts of the conversations the author had with numerous scientists that are investigating life's designs (whether it be the process of photosynthesis or the adhesive mollusks use). Some of them are detailed investigators, while others are creative people who can fathom future applications of the discoveries and imagine possible models and theories to explain the biology.<br />Overall, I found the book quite interesting. The technical level of certain passages (e.g. the chemical process by which photosynthesis functions) was difficult for me to understand and I imagine the lay, non-specialist reader would find that material challenging (and possibly boring). However, there are projections of possible technologies scattered all about the book (e.g. a protein-based data storage device the size of a 5.25 inch disk with a storage capacity, theoretically speaking, of 200,000 GB). <br />I have two basic problems with the book however; the occasional drift towards nature worship and the uncritical references to macro-evolution (e.g. change from one species to another species) as having produced everything in nature.<br />In places, Benyus seems talk about nature as if it were a conscious living entity that has God-like qualities. For example, on the last page she says, &quot;... similar to the Mohawk prayer spoken by a midwife at the moment of birth, 'Thank You, Earth. You know the way.' Although the scientists and innovators I met might be hesitant to phrase it this way, it could just as easily be their journeying song.&quot; Or in a personal story which she ends with this post script, &quot;The preparation for this echoing was a quieting on my part, a silencing of my own cleverness long enough to turn to nature for advice.&quot; Evolution consistently gets the credit for basically deigning magnificent pieces of nature. Also, evolution gets the credit for designing a stable eco-system (where thousands or millions of species live together in sustainable way); no small feat. Lest you think that I am some fool for criticizing macro-evolution, consult my, \\"About me,\\" area. <br />Overall, the book is very interesting in its ideas and its investigation of nature. It is also a return of one of the primary ideas of science: observation.	2001-03-23
US	49444977	R2H42ELQQY20I0	0679734457	486927956	The Divine Invasion	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Strange and creative!	This novel is very, very strange... I'm not really sure what to make of it; it is not &quot;regular&quot; science fiction. There were some many different ideas from various different sources being pulled together here. <br />The setting is somewhere in the future. Earth is governed by two global organizations; the Christian (Roman Catholic)-Islamic Church and the Scientific Prelate (Communists). I must say I was very much intrigued by the idea of the Christian-Islamic Church; theoretically speaking, that would be the most powerful organization conceivable. The two largest missionary religions united... In addition to Earth, there are some colonies outside of the Sol System (i.e. outside of Earth's solar system). <br />The story is basically that of redemption on a cosmic scale. There are many references to Judaism (quotations from the Old Testament/Tanakh), references to Jewish mysticism, and some references to Jesus Christ. There is still a Fall which cursed all of creation and, in this scenario, fragmented God's being. However, in this scenario, Christ failed... As a result, God has to be incarnated again. There are some parallels to Christ; the birth from a virgin being the main one. However, after &quot;Christ&quot; (Emmanuel in the novel) is born, he grows up not really knowing who he is. Elijah, the great prophet of the Old Testament, is constant presence in the novel, advising the main characters. Appparently, Elijah left Earth and has constantly advised people throughout history. I quite liked the character of Elijah (his name in the novel is Elias). Emmanuel planned this prior to his birth; he eventually defeats Belial (Satan) in the end.<br />Some of the references were unfamiliar to me but it helped to have a background in Christianity (and thereby Judaism). The God of the novel is strange; he identifies himself as Yahweh (an English version of the more accurate transliteration from the Old Testament: YHWH) yet if often seems as though he does not have some of God's essential attributes. However, the novel keeps taking different turns and one wonders what reality in the book is &quot;real.&quot; That said, God (in the novel), often seems vulnerable and wonders whether or not he will indeed conquer evil. God's knowledge of the future is also often suspect. <br />The book is very strange and I imagine I will read it again at some point; it is quite compact but it is very thought provoking. It contains much philosophical speculation but his analysis of God is based on a number of faulty assumptions (e.g. God makes mistakes, God is not holy, God is not omnipotent, God is not sovereign and God is not omniscient). So, there is no mistaking the pitiful God of the Divine Invasion for the majestic Holy Trinity of the Bible!	2001-03-09
US	49444977	R1XSJZR5HAOMQH	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	3	5	8	N	N	The search for wisdom and meaning in the East...	I read this short novel in three days after a friend recommended it to me. Just some quick background; the author (Herman Hesse) was German and wrote the novel in 1922 after traveling to the East. Hesse also reacted strongly against his Protestant upbringing; even fleeing from the seminary his parents sent him to.<br />The setting is probably around 500 BC and the setting is Malla republic, Magadha kingdom (in modern India, that is the west-central part of Bihar state; which is in northeastern India). However, these estimates are somewhat sketchy. I based the geography based on the place where Buddha is traditionally understood to have died (when Buddha dies in the novel it seems like all the monks are traveling to a fairly close-by location). The life of Buddha provides the rough timeline; he was probably born about 563 BC and probably died 483 BC.<br />The writing flows; there are no awkward sections in the novel. Complex Eastern ideas are discussed; terms such as: Om, Self, Brahmin and others are litter the pages. As I am still very much unfamiliar with much of this terminology this can make the novel difficult; no doubt understanding these terms would add to one's appreciation of the work.<br />The protagonist is named Siddhartha is a Brahmin's son. At this time, (and still at present), there is a caste system functioning in India that divides all persons into very specific social classes. The novel opens with him as a young man; he is successful at learning at the traditions of Hinduism, performs sacrifices and so on. Yet, he is unfulfilled; and thus he embarks on a quest where he firsts becomes a poor ascetic (he meets Buddha during this period), then a lover, then and a wealthy merchant and finally becomes a ferryman as an old man.<br />Evaluation<br />I found many of the thoughts very profound; the search for meaning and significance is unavoidable. Also, the folly of materialistic hedonism is exposed as well as how one can so easily fall into it, until one's soul is consumed. That said, monism (the doctrine that reality consists of a single basic substance or element) and pantheism (The doctrine that the universe, taken or conceived of as a whole, is God) are on every page. The view of reality affects the path of wisdom that Siddhartha pursues; he has the potential to save himself and can learn spiritual lessons from natural phenomena (e.g. a river) and he does not need to be saved from the condemnation of sin but rather must be enlightened to escape the endless cycle of reincarnation, the illusion of the world (maya) and suffering. The idea that one can save oneself or that anything can save one other than Jesus Christ is consistently presented. The discerning Christian reader should perceive these ideas and be very aware of them (especially that theses Eastern beliefs are totally incompatibly with biblical Christianity and logical/philosophical incoherence); that said, the book is very good. Reading this book is helpful in coming to a better understanding of the Eastern (Buddhist/Hindu) view of reality and life; awareness of these beliefs is important as these ideas are fast coming into the West under the guise of \\"New Age.\\"<br />Note:<br />The name of the main character is actually taken from the original's Buddha's name, often transliterated as (Prince) Siddharta or Siddhartha. In the book, Buddha is often called, Gotama; this is a Pali (a language of India), for the Buddha, it basically means &quot;Enlightened One.&quot;s soul is consumed. That said, monism (the doctrine that reality consists of a single basic substance or element) and pantheism (The doctrine that the universe, taken or conceived of as a whole, is God) are on every page. The view of reality affects the path of wisdom that Siddhartha pursues; he has the potential to save himself and can learn spiritual lessons from natural phenomena (e.g. a river) and he does not need to be saved from the condemnation of sin but rather must be enlightened to escape the endless cycle of reincarnation, the illusion of the world (maya) and suffering. The idea that one can save oneself or that anything can save one other than Jesus Christ is consistently presented. The discerning Christian reader should perceive these ideas and be very aware of them (especially that theses Eastern beliefs are totally incompatibly with biblical Christianity and logical/philosophical incoherence); that said, the book is very good. Reading this book is helpful in coming to a better understanding of the Eastern (Buddhist/Hindu) view of reality and life; awareness of these beliefs is important as these ideas are fast coming into the West under the guise of \\"New Age.\\"<br />Note:<br />The name of the main character is actually taken from the original's Buddha's name, often transliterated as (Prince) Siddharta or Siddhartha. In the book, Buddha is often called, Gotama; this is a Pali (a language of India), for the Buddha, it basically means &quot;Enlightened One.&quot;	2001-03-02
US	49444977	R1XEIE7MODB0NM	0804830827	308542484	Zen Around the World	Books	4	3	7	N	N	What is Zen? A mystery...	I read this book in a few days; it is quite compact for the range of material covered. Zen is something that people hear whispers of or rumors of in the West; I wanted to know more. I wish I could provide a definition for Zen... There is one great quote at the beginning of the book that says, &quot;To mix metaphors, India was the woman, China the man, Zen the wonderful child.&quot; <br />Before I read this book, I had no idea how diverse Buddhism was. I thought that there was basically two sects (Mahayana and Hinayana). However, it seems that Buddhism radically changes every time it encounters a new land. Originally, Buddhism was founded in India circa 500 BC. The author briefly sketches the historical origins of Buddhism, the Yogi practice of Hinduism and the Chinese religion of Taoism. Several of these ideas merged in China; the original (i.e. transliterated) name of Zen was Ch'an. Within Chinese Zen, there were numerous divisions (e.g. some sects emphasized the written works of Buddhism- Sutras and koans-, while others thought they were helpful but unnecessary while others thought they were a positive hindrance). The section on the sutras and koan (the written component of Buddhism) was interesting and provided quick sketches. Another major dividing point between schools of Buddhism (and thus Zen), is how enlightenment is to be attained; through a sudden flash of insight or through gradual study and diligence? One school combined both by saying that one is suddenly enlightened but that there is more to be gained to studying and attaining ever-higher levels of enlightenment. Zen has also changed much since it left China for Japan and Korea. I was surprised to learn that the traditional Eastern martial arts are strongly connected to Zen (e.g. karate, tae kwan do and kung-fu). However, Zen has spread from the Orient to the West around the end of the 19th century...<br />With the work of D.T. Suzuki, many Buddhist works became available in English for the first time.MBuddhist editation is advertised as something that &quot;everyone&quot; can do; irrespective of religious commitment. Indeed, I worry that Christians may forget that Zen is foreign to Christianity and the two systems cannot be reconciled. Christians must become so familiar with the truth that they will be able to recognize spiritual counterfeits such as this. In addition, Zen influenced one of the prominent founders of psychology Carl Jung, in his formulation of the collective unconscious; his theories are very prominent in both psychology and sociology.<br />In addition, Zen Buddhism is riddled with logical problems. For example, &quot;Existence and non-existence share the same nature.&quot; Buddhism is riddled with violations of the law of non-contradiction and Buddhism's ontology (i.e. the world is an illusion/non-real) and epistemology is also flawed. However, this is the fault of the system and not the authors of the book. I think the authors explained the different schools of Zen and how Zen has changed with time etc... I did find the barrage of unfamiliar names difficult to manage; the inclusion of a glossary of names (and certain key concepts) was very helpful; however it could definitely be expanded more and be better organized.	2001-02-27
US	49444977	R33DPZCLDT3W0O	0830815694	386224253	Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig & Gerd Ludemann	Books	4	18	20	N	N	The crux of Christianity; what happened Easter morning?	I quite enjoyed this book; previously I had seen the debate on the Internet. It is useful to re-examine the content again by reading rather than simply listening. One of the main benefits is that you get footnotes for the quotations and citations the speakers use which is valuable information. Proper documentation is essential to a debate such as this.<br />The Debaters<br />Dr. William Lane Craig<br />Position: Research professor at Talbot School of Theology<br />Ph. D - University of Birmingham, England (Philosophy)<br />Th. D - Universität München (University of Munich), Germany (Theology)<br />Dr. Craig defends the traditional Christian position that Jesus Christ was physically resurrected on Easter morning.<br />Dr. Gerd Lüdemann<br />Position: Professor of New Testament at Georg-August-University, University of Göttingen, Germany<br />D.Theol. - University of Göttingen <br />D. Habil. - University of Göttingen <br />Dr. Lüdemann defends what he calls the &quot;vision&quot; hypothesis in which the disciple's experience Jesus as being risen but not in a veridically objective sense. Note: Dr. Lüdemann is a Fellow of the infamous, (what I would describe as &quot;ultra-liberal&quot;) Jesus Seminar. <br />The Debate<br />Dr. Craig begins the debate with five points of agreement with Dr. Lüdemann; one is especially important to highlight here, &quot;the resurrection of Jesus us the central point of the Christian religion.&quot; Dr. Craig then proceeds to offer four basic facts which must be explained (and yes, Dr. Craig offers much evidence to prove his major points):<br />i) Jesus' honourable burial. <br />ii) The discovery of Jesus' empty tomb on Easter morning.<br />iii) Jesus' postmortem appearances <br />iv) The origin of the disciples' belief in Jesus' resurrection.<br />Furthermore, Dr. Craig offers four criteria by which any hypothesis (commonly used criteria) explaining the above four facts must explain namely:<br />i) Significant explanatory scopeand power<br />ii) Plausibility<br />iii) Not being ad hoc.<br />iv) Being in accord with accepted beliefs<br />v) Outstripping all rival theories<br />Dr. Craig's basic structure takes command of the debate; my only disappointment was that though I disagree with Dr. Lüdemann, I would like to have heard his hypothesis. <br />Dr. Lüdemann<br />Dr. Lüdemann primarily argues in a reactionary manner to Dr. Craig's statements and rebuttals. Dr. Lüdemann does make some argumentation to dispute Dr. Craig's four established facts; at some points there is very detailed argumentation over the text of certain New Testament passages. Much of Dr. Lüdemann's arguments seem to reduce to, &quot;This is a miracle! Come one, we enlightened, scientific-minded, modern people are beyond that sort of primitive thinking.&quot; However, Dr. Lüdemann offers little to defend this assertion however it illustrates one of the major background issues of the debate. It comes down to two questions: 1) Does the Christian God exist? 2) Does the Christian God act in history?<br />Indeed, these questions are logically prior to the details of the resurrection.<br />Responses<br />Several contributors submit papers to give their views on the debate. Two scholars argue &quot;for&quot; Dr. Craig and two argue &quot;for&quot; Dr. Lüdemann. I would like to note, (I do not intend to make an ad hominem here) that Roy W. Hoover is also a Fellow of the Jesus Seminar. One essay that helped to forward Dr. Lüdemann's hypothesis named, &quot;The explanatory power of conversion-visions,&quot; by Michael Goulder; here one can see how *potentially* Dr. Lüdemann's hypothesis could work. The most challenging, one might say controversial essay, was entitled, &quot;The Contest between Orthodoxy and Veracity,&quot; by Roy W. Hoover. In this essay, Hoover says that, basically, Dr. Lüdemann is in search of the truth (i.e. veracity) whereas Dr. Craig is only interested in defending the out-moded tradition of Christianity (i.e. orthodoxy). Hoover even claims that Christianity could survive without the Resurrection; that life could have some sort of existential meaning any way. Hoover also claims (by citing Paul Tillich, a Christian liberal theologian interested in integrating existentialism and Christianity), that the Crucifixion was an actual event that came to be a religious symbol whereas the Resurrection was a religious symbol that &quot;became&quot; to spoken of as it were an actual event. This sort of Kierkegaardian &quot;believe it, even if the facts are against you,&quot; and the idea, that a basically fictional (a.k.a. vision or hallucination) &quot;event&quot; can lead significance to one's life is very annoying to me. However, this perception that Christians basically believe false propositions is the common understanding in the media. <br />However, Dr. Craig finishes the book with his masterful 44-page response. He answers every major objection to his four facts, submits both his and Lüdemann's hypothesis to the criteria he offered earlier (from a third-party; Craig didn't just conjure up this criteria) and shows the woeful inadequacy of the vision/hallucination hypothesis and the superiority of the Resurrection hypothesis, &quot;That God raised Jesus from the dead.&quot;<br />On a closing note, I would have liked to see more rebuttal of Hoover's essay by Dr. Craig, nonetheless, Dr. Craig shows that Christianity can be defended on historical and philosophical grounds and that it is a faith that makes sense.<br />Also, I would recommend Dr. Craig's excellcent book, &quot;Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth &amp; Apologetics,&quot; where he offers numerous arguments for God's existence and dismantles the objections of David Hume and Immanuel Kant. I would warn that Dr. Craig writes at sophisticated academic level; attention and study is required (for those interested in learning how to defend the Christian faith, I would highly recommend Lee Strobel's two books, &quot;The Case for Christ,&quot; and, &quot;The Case for Faith.&quot;)	2001-02-24
US	49444977	R5YSK7GDIPR7S	0393046486	789181698	Clones and Clones: Facts and Fantasies About Human Cloning	Books	3	4	11	N	N	A multifaceted look at human cloning	I'm interested in the life issues currently being debated and examined in our modern world; abortion, euthanasia, and human cloning. The question of human identity and personhood is crucial to all these issues; the answers ultimately come from one's worldview (The overall perspective from which one sees and interprets the world. A collection of beliefs about life and the universe held by an individual or a group.)<br />Format:<br />The book was written by numerous authors (about 20) grouped thematically. <br />Part I: Science<br />Examines the procedure used to clone Dolly. The relationship between nature (DNA) and nurture (choices, environmental considerations). The influence of DNA on the human brain, individuality, and so on. Also, a preliminary examination of the ethics of cloning.<br />Part II: Commentary<br />This section seemed like something of a miscellaneous section. One essay (among the most difficult to read in the book) was entitled, &quot;Cloning and Mythology.&quot; Another essay explored the connections between the &quot;uncanny,&quot; sheep, human humour and cloning. The most interesting essay in this section was entitled, &quot;Queer Cloning,&quot; exploring the possibilities for cloning as a reproductive technology for non-heterosexual persons.<br />Part III: Ethics and Religion<br />Probably the most interesting section on the book; this is where the &quot;significance&quot; of human cloning is examined. Religious and secular moral objections and supports are offered and analyzed. The question of &quot;sameness&quot; and narcissism are also looked at in this section.<br />Part IV: Law and Public Policy<br />This examined the legal (American, in this case) framework that could be implemented to ban all human cloning, possible regulations on its uses. The whole question of legal recognition of the clone and the radical altering of current social structure (e.g. how would the roles &quot;mother&quot; and &quot;father&quot; function in cloning?) <br/>Part V: Fiction and Fantasy<br />This section looks at the impact and significance of cloning through the medium of fiction. I found the two stories, &quot;World of Strangers,&quot; and, &quot;My Clone,&quot; very profound and definitely more accessible as to the meaning of human cloning.<br />Analysis:<br />The tone of the book is rather unabashedly secular; the naturalistic worldview, coupled with autonomy and &quot;freedom,&quot; pervade the pages. The question frequently turns on whether there is a &quot;right&quot; (a favorite term in American public discourse; on paper in Part IV posited two hypothetical US Supreme Court rulings, one is pro-cloning and one is anti-cloning. This appeals to North America's tendency to follow the philosophy of assumption of liberty; &quot;I can do anything I want; the person who opposes me has the &quot;burden&quot; to prove that my action is wrong.&quot; Two prominent evolutionists, Richard Dawkins and Stephen J. Gould were contributors. Gould's essay tried to examine the mysterious interaction between nature and nature and how one should not over-emphasize in favor of either one. Dawkins' essay proved a searing look at what he calls &quot;communities&quot; objections to human cloning. Dawkins' recalls his experiences when he appeared on news programmes following the cloning of Dolly; whenever a religious person objected to cloning, Dawkins (correctly) pointed out that natural twins and hypothetical clones are one and the same in that both persons share the same DNA. The only difference is that natural twins are &quot;accidental&quot; whereas clones are artificial.<br />Dawkin's analysis points to the need for the Church (i.e. Christians in general) to only send informed, intelligent persons with a training in science, apologetics and theology to interact with others in the media. Until that happens, Christians will lose every battle to the secular world.<br />There were some other interesting points raised in, &quot;Queer Clones.&quot; For example, if incubation technology and gender modification technology eventually improve enough, theoretically, a male homosexual could clone himself and carry the child to term himself or place the conceptus in an artificial womb. However, the author of the essay notes that as incubation technology is basically speculation, men would have to rely on women to carry their clones to term. Indeed, the author notes that lesbian women would have an inherent advantage; they could carry their own clones to term.<br />Throughout the book, the philosophy of genetic determinism is shown to be false. Due to this, some of the emotional appeals for cloning evaporate. For example, say a 20-year-old son or daughter died in an automobile accident, wouldn't the parents wish to clone him or her &quot;back to life,&quot; so to speak? However, at most there would be a great physical resemblance (as well as some psychological attributes perhaps) to the dead child; the clone would be very different in personality.<br />The essay entitled, &quot;Human Cloning and the Public Realm: A Defense of the Good,&quot; was fascinating. The contributions of the West's (i.e. the three great monotheistic religions: Judaism, Christianity and Islam) religions to the understanding of what it means to be a human person is examined. The influence and contribution of Eastern religions is briefly touched on at the end of the essay but the focus is primarily on the &quot;Western&quot; tradition; The Jewish anthropology of self; the unity of body and mind, the Catholic understanding of &quot;person&quot; as a being that has inherent dignity and is the Protestant contribution of the need to limit human power, pride and greed.<br />Evaluation:<br />To the fact that there are so many different authors, the book is difficult to assimilate the diversity of information; there seems a lack of a unifying principle here. In addition, the Christian will find the some of the language where secular philosophy (i.e. rights-oriented, autonomy etc...) is a priori assumed. Also, the whole ethical system is based on instrumental values (what is the &quot;harm&quot; of action x?) and the whole question of whether certain actions are intrinsically wrong is deficient. In addition, there is a comment on the book flap, &quot;what it means to be human.&quot; Indeed, if one's anthropology provide the answers to the cloning issue; so whose anthropology is true? Christianity wins!<br />I would recommend the book, &quot;Body &amp; Soul: Human Nature &amp; the Crisis in Ethics,&quot; by J.P. Moreland (ISBN:  0830815775) for a Christian analysis.	2001-02-14
US	49444977	RGYX82ZD4PU4Q	0061010839	29780906	Just As I Am: The Autobiography of Billy Graham	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Warm. Full of hope! The greatest American Christian ever!	I really enjoyed this book. Dr. William Franklin Graham, Jr. (Billy Graham hereafter) is one of the most influential American Christian evangelists of the 20th Century and ranks on the list of most influential Christians with the likes of the Apostle Paul (lived during the first century AD; executed in Rome in about 67 AD).<br />Graham takes you through his life from his early childhood in North Carolina, to College, and then to his unprecedented ministry. The general tone of the book is similar to a conversation by a fireplace, talking long into the night and recalling with a smile the great events of the past. Graham's style is highly readable; one never gets lost in the text.<br />The only time I have ever seen Mr. Graham in person was when he came to Toronto in 1995. He has traveled more than any person I have ever read or heard about; he has been to every one of the 50 American States several times, to Europe (Western and Eastern; Eastern Europe during the Cold War), to Africa, to the Middle East, India, Asia, Japan and Australia. He has also personally met with and often counseled every US President since President Truman (mid-1940's, right after World War II) to President Clinton (to 1997). There are chapters on numerous US Presidents and Graham's relationship with them (he always acted as a pastor and a personal friend; never as a political adviser or a partisan).<br />Dr. Graham was also been a great pioneer in the ecumenical (different Christian denominations working together) and inter-faith (different religions working together) co-operation movements YET he never comprised the Gospel of Jesus Christ. Graham's unwavering service to Jesus Christ and his simply amazingly high degree of personal and organizational integrity really impressed me. Graham has been very influential in founding schools of evangelism, founding the magazine, &quot;Christianity Today,&quot; and, of course, bringing thousands upon thousands to a saving relationship with Jesus Christ.<br />Dr. Graham has also been a pioneer in healing the great racial divide that still permeates the United States. Indeed, during the 1950's and 1960's, Dr. Graham was one of the first white leaders to oppose segregation; he refused to preach to segregated audiences. Dr. Graham was also a friend of the late Dr. Martin Luther King Jr. and desperately wanted to attend King's funeral but unfortunately he was doing a series of Crusades (preaching the Gospel in organized city-wide efforts) in Australia at the time and so was unable to attend.<br />Another interesting part was his tours of Asia. His wife, Ruth, was originally born in China to American missionary parents and only left in her late teens to go to America because of the Japanese invasion of World War II. The couple went back to visit Ruth's home and the medical compound that it was situated in during the early 1980's. Later, in 1992, Billy Graham was one of the first Westerners to travel to North Korea since the Korean War of the 1950's. Ruth had attended summer school here during her time in China; that fact no doubt helped Graham into the country. Graham made an effort to make some initial steps toward some state of reconciliation (he conveyed a message from the US President to the President of North Korea and vice-versa). Despite this, Graham has always been an Ambassador for the King of Kings, first and foremost, that is to say Jesus Christ.  By the way, there are numerous photographs throughout the book documenting Graham's meeting with such persons as Dr. Martin Luther King Jr., Her Majesty the Queen Elizabeth II, numerous US Presidents and, of course, his large family. In addition, there is a bibliography of books by Graham at the end of the book. The two final sections list all the places he has traveled to by year and a complete index to facilitate looking up references to people or places. <br />There is one poignant section I would really like to quote. The setting in 1945 or 1946 in Western Germany; a land totally shattered and defeated in the aftermath of World War II. Dr. Graham is alone in the office of Chancellor Konrad Adenauer (leader of Western Germany)<br />\\"Ever more memorable was German Chancellor Konrad Adenauer. One time when I was preaching in Germany, he invited me to his office. Coffee was served, but before my first sip, he started in.    `Young man, do you believe in the resurrection of Jesus Christ?'  `I most certainly do,' I replied.  `So do I. If Jesus Christ is not risen from the dead, there is not one glimmer of hope for the human race. When I leave office, I'm going to spend the rest of my life studying and writing about the resurrection of Jesus Christ. It's the most important event in history.'\\"<br />  One last note, despite his many incredible accomplishments, Graham keeps a great sense of humility and gratitude to God. Many lesser people would let such an amazing life go to their head but Billy Graham stays humble in such way that deserves to be followed by Christians everywhere. Graham finishes the main text of the book with a retelling of the essential, unchanging message of the Gospel and ends his acknowledgements with the Latin words: Soli Deo Gloria (To God alone be the glory).	2001-02-05
US	49444977	R30ZMSXY245EFG	0380710854	540323986	Caesar: Let the Dice Fly  (Masters of Rome, Book 5)	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Dramatic 1st Century BC Fiction!	This novel relates the exploits of one Gaius Julius Caesar, covering the time period November 54 BC to September 29, 48 BC. The setting is the ancient Mediterranean Roman Republic and its Provinces, enemies and allies.<br />The novel explodes during Caesar's Gallic War (specifically, Gallia Comata -&gt; Gaul of the Longhairs -&gt; roughly modern France). There are numerous battles; power plays to control Gaullic tribes and Caesar tries to enlist some of Gauls on his side. At one point, Caesar constructs a type of military fortification known as a circumvallation; essentially a series of walls over 10 miles long, in this case, around the city of Alesia. <br />After this, there is the run up to the Civil War. The political intrigues of the Senate and People of Rome (the Roman Government) are described. It was fascinating to read of the power plays used by the Romans; the planning behind the campaigns for political office, the running of the courts and the relation of Rome to Italia and the Provinces. The noble ruling class (patricians) constantly worries of how it will maintain itself apart from the influence of the plebeians (commoners); the plebeians are potential rioters and clients (in Roman terms, this meant for a plebian to owe political and economic allegiance to a patrician). Then, Caesar crosses the Rubicon (a river separating the Provinces which he administers and Italia proper) sparking the Civil War. Gnaeus Pompeius Magnus (Pomey the Great) heads the anti-Caesar side. As Caesar advances toward Rome, Pompey panics and decides to abandon Rome and evacuate the Government to Greece...<br />The general tenor is the novel is fascinating; however one can become loss in the great detail of geography that McCullough provides. Fortunately, there are about 5 maps in the novel depicting the various areas. Also, the narrative includes details concerning the inner workings of a Roman military camp, Roman military logistics and the legal/constitutional setup of the RomanRepublic. Again, McCullough provides a rather extensive glossary of terms, which the reader will find very helpful. <br />Given that much of the novel consists of military campaigns (there is a fair amount of politics involved as well; the military and the political often clash and mesh with each other), one learns the great importance of food. There is a constant concern that the Generals must find (and obtain by force, if necessary) food to feed their troops. This factor comes up in several different contexts; the sieges, being far from Rome, the problems when the local area suffers from a famine and so on. Also, the fact that the soldiers expect and get much personal wealth (and Caesar personally), by looting defeated cities and tribes of all their silver and gold is a concept that may be very familiar to the modern reader. Yet, that was one of the big draws to getting involved in wars.<br />My one negative criticism of the novel is the seeming adoration with Caesar himself that McCullough puts into the story. It seems that Caesar will win every battle, win every discussion and outplan or outplan his foes. There is a feel that Caesar's victories at almost predestined at some points. <br />Historical Accuracy:<br />The novel has as its source material to primary documents written by Gaius Julius Caesar himself (&quot;The Gallic Wars,&quot; and,  &quot;The Civil War&quot;). Due to the fact that Caesar was writing the Gallic Wars as something like a series of status reports to the Senate of Rome, there is a possible tendency that he inflated his victories. Especially, since the Gauls of this time period left no written records about themselves, one must rely on others descriptions of them. In the, &quot;Author's Afterword,&quot; McCullough explains in about 4 pages what changes she has made to actual history of the events. For a history student, this is extremely informative. I expected that McCullough would have been much more liberal in her dramatic retelling butI am quite impressed with her fidelity to the facts.<br />McCullough ends her Afterword by stating: &quot;The next book will be called, 'The October Horse.'&quot; I look forward to reading this next installment in, &quot;The Masters of Rome,&quot; series.	2001-02-02
US	49444977	RU3PK13ELUQOO	0451523377	821153252	Dracula (Signet Classics)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The classic gothic novel	In a class I took, I was asked to read a gothic novel. So, I decided to pick what I thought was the locus classicus. The  format of the novel was the first thing that struck me; it is a series of diary entries, letters, telegraphs and so on. The format leads to a somewhat disjointed narrative as different characters will enter for 20-30 pages and give their own personal narrative of the day's events.<br />As a Christian, this novel and indeed many in the same genre (e.g. Frankenstein), are often depicted as terrible, evil, devilish/satanic books. However, I would agree with the Christian Research Journal, that this novel unlike newer reworkings of the vampire story (those by Anne Rice) is quite Christian. All the narration is from the perspective of the &quot;good guys&quot; and Count Dracula himself only makes rather rare appearances. Furthermore, there are *many* referneces to God's will, God's providence and the like. Lastly, the Un-Dead (the novel's way of describing vampires and Dracula himself) are terribly vulnerable to Christian symbols (e.g. Crosses, crucifixes, Sacred Wafers &lt;- the bread of Communion).<br />Stoker's way of revealing details about vampires (who and what they are, their abilities, their history etc) are very slow and gradual. I found myself wanting to know more about the history of Count Dracula (he was a powerful nobleman, centuries ago in Turkey/Romania) and how the race of the Un-Dead started and functions. It would have been more interesting to see the Count more often and perhaps have him contribute his thoughts (he appears in the first few chapters, disappears for a 100 pages, reappears, and then disappears for 150 pages).<br />However, this novel does not lend itself to a fast read, in my opinion. I committed to reading 25 pages per day and thus I came to the end of it. The conclusion was rather abrupt and left something to be desired. I have not seen the film adaptation (Directed by Francis Ford Coppola; produced 1992).<br />I plan on reading and reviewing Mary Shelly's, &quot;Frankenstein,&quot; in late 2001.<br />Please note that I read the Penguin Classics version (ISBN: 0-14-043381-3).	2001-01-26
US	49444977	R2VQ1P8HQZ37XM	0770428207	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	3	3	6	N	N	A feminist dystopia	This book is a first-person narrative from the perspective of a character named Offred (who is a Handmaid). The whole society is based on about 5-10 verses from the Bible which, when ripped out of context and twisted, would seem to indictate that Christianity is anti-women.<br />The basic idea is that an unnamed Protestant Christian denomination takes over the USA and totally reconstructs the society in a radical way. There is some sort of disaster/war which sterilizes a large segment of the female population thus the remaining fertile females are pressed into service as breeding machines (called Handmaids).<br />There is a whole new social structure set up with Aunts (who train Handmaids; Aunts are the only class of women allowed to read and write), Commanders of the Faithful (leaders), Angels (protect the Handmaids) and so on. Atwood gives subtle hints about the workings of the Republic of Gilead (the new name of the USA after the fictional revolution) but they are not sufficient for one to understand Gilead society. As an appendix, there is a section called, &quot;Historical Notes,&quot; which is an academic conference set in 2195 (approx. 150 years after the events of the novels) and some more details emerge. This section was probably the most interesting in the book.<br />The novel is an interesting spin on 20th dysopia fiction. Its specific innovation is to emphasize the oppression of a specific set of persons (women). However, &quot;Brave New World,&quot; by Aldous Huxley and &quot;1984,&quot; by George Orwell are MUCH better dystopia novels.	2001-01-26
US	49444977	R2TR3FGB0SRREX	1565074319	447589606	A Strong Delusion: Confronting the "Gay Christian" Movement	Books	5	62	82	N	N	Christianity and culture; a question of ethics	I read this book after the issue of homosexuality came up in the Bible study group I lead. <br />The issue of sexuality is a difficult one. I first heard about the author and the book on an American radio show called, &quot;The Bible Answerman,&quot; and thought, &quot;This is just what I'm looking for.<br />Dallas begins with his personal testimony and then an exposition of contemporary comments from secular gay leaders and gay Christian leaders. Next, he goes over the history of the movements; both secular and Christian. After that, he goes in specific argumentation on three broad categories; sociological/scientific, generic religious, and Christian/Biblical.<br />Some of his points that really deserve to be underscored.  1. The distinction between identity and behavior    The pro-gay movement has succeeded in welding these two together but it really makes no sense. I mean imagine applying to another category of sin, let's say murder. Can you imagine someone saying, &quot;I kill people for fun! It is part of who I am, man!&quot;<br />2. Homophobia and effects of the conservative position<br />Dallas points out that disagreeing with a person's behavior does not mean fearing or hating that person. <br />3. Supposed scientific evidence confirming homosexuality is biologically determined.<br />Dallas outlines most of the major studies commonly cited by those holding to the pro-gay position and shows that they are at worst, false and at best, inconclusive. Dallas also makes the point that behavior x being genetically influenced/determined does not make x moral. <br />Dallas finishes by saying that the Church (not a specific denomination but Christians in general) have failed in trying to reach out to homosexuals. He says the Church has also failed trying to help repentent homosexuals. Dallas finishes his book by saying that Christians must recognize that biblical sexual ethics are absolute and clear but we must help those stuck in sin and a quote from a pastor is particularly appropriate here. &quot;My message to the homosexual is: We love you. Come and struggle with us against sin . Don't give in to it.&quot;	2000-12-13
US	49444977	RPFY5RBSD483J	1565076966	383562657	Christianity in Crisis with Study Guide	Books	5	12	17	N	N	A Defense of Christian Judegement/Discernment	To start, let me say that I am an Evangelical Christian.<br />Some of the  reviewers here have stated that Mr. Hanegraaff's comments are  &quot;judgemental&quot; or &quot;dangerous&quot; and so on...<br />Mr.  Hanegraaff's objective is simply to defend historic Biblical Christianity  against imposters and others who basically have faulty theology/doctrine or  practice.<br />Lest you think that there is no basis for this allow me to  offer the following verses from the Bible:<br />&quot;Dear friends, do not  believe every spirit, but test the spirits to see whether they are from  God, because many false prophets have gone out into the world.&quot; (1  John 4:1)<br />&quot;Watch out for false prophets. They come to you in sheep's  clothing, but inwardly they are ferocious wolves.&quot; (Matthew  7:15)<br />&quot;Do not judge according to appearance, but judge with  righteous judgment.&quot; (John 7:24)<br />&quot;Do your best to present  yourself to God as one approved, a workman who does not need to be ashamed  and who correctly handles the word of truth.&quot; (2 Timothy 2:15)<br />The  point that is being made by Mr. Hanegraaff here is that Christians are  *SHOULD* discern true teaching from false teaching and true teachers from  false teachers. How is this to be done? An objective standard must be used;  that standard is the Bible.<br />Thanks!<br />P.S. Scripture quotations are from  the New International Version and the New King James Version	2000-08-27
