US	49443858	RF0NXMEQCXU95	0609609033	517181171	As the Future Catches You: How Genomics & Other Forces Are Changing Your Life, Work, Health & Wealth	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good but Flawed Overview of Post-Genomics Technology Trends	On the whole, this is a good read, integrating and extrapolating contemporary trends in national wealth & technology (especially genomics).  Yet these insights suffer from several flaws.  First is the uncritical idolatry of Craig Venter.  Sure he pioneered excellent work in shotgun sequencing whole genomes.  Yet Celera has now dumped Venter & their sequencers & the sale of genomic sequences (derived in part from PUBLIC information, I might add--although you wouldn't know it from *this* book), and is now in the business of finding new pharmaceuticals.  This whole issue raises some important questions (like, \\"Who should legally 'own' gene sequence data?\\") that are nowhere addressed here.  You can bet that the author spent NO TIME talking with Eric Lander, Francis Collins or other leaders of the public project. And there are business models besides Venter's (e.g., Big Pharma's public SNP consortium).  Secondly, his chapter \\"Sleepless (and Angry) in Seattle\\"--on opposition to Globalization--is weak and vapid in the extreme. Apparently, there aren't any potential problems with rampant bioengineered tradition-busting world capitalism.  Nor is there anything traditional worth salvaging from the slaughter. Enriquez' version of technology lacks vision, prioritization or leadership--its pure gang-busters.  This might be fine, given leaders with moral authority a la Peter Drucker.  But in our too-real post-Enron/WorldCom/Tyco world of sleazy ethics, criminal accounting and unabashed greed, I find it remarkably naive.  And the environment?  No problemo--global warming, air/water pollution, the fossilization of fossil fuel economies, & natural resource depletion notwithstanding.  The anti-Globalization movement has some very important points that are sadly overlooked here.  That said, the book offers a largely comprehensive and integrative look at the convergence of technologies facing us in the 21st century.	2003-01-27
US	49443858	R3PBQIIQQTN9R8	068483801X	359670560	The World According to Peter Drucker	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Superb Overview	In this superb, slim 186-page volume, the author manages to capture the quintessence of Drucker's life-work on management.  Drucker's neo-Weberian sociology, the search for the moral basis of capitalism, the influence of Schumpeter (the renegade Austrian economist), the roles of European intellectual currents, his spiritual underpinnings in Kierkegaard, and the social context of Drucker's thought and development--all are ably portrayed here, in all the richness of their context.  Penetrating, insightful and  never blinded by adulation, the book is also extremely well written.  I read a chapter a night and was done inside a week. There are only 2 blemishes.  First, he is a bit skimpy on some biographical details (*when* was Drucker born, for example?).  Secondly, what in the world does \\"elide\\" mean?  Here's the sentence:  \\"...Drucker's bold reinvention of government...elides the cardinal difference between government and business...--democratic accountability.\\"  You can't even infer the meaning of this strange word from its context.  Before I was even finished, I was able to use information in this book to choose (and purchase) 3 other Drucker classics.  And excellent, valuable read--don't miss it.	2003-01-11
US	49443858	R34MEQ3YZBMX9P	0877289298	960140657	The History of Magic	Books	2	23	52	N	N	Weakly steeped in 19th century ignorance.	We are all intruigued by the mysteries of magic.  But this book makes the most preposterous claims about magic, ritual, history and god knows what else, that I have ever seen.  Far from the claim (in a review below) of his \\"empiricism,\\" Levi does not seem to have been in the least informed by the sciences of his day.  The real mystery is why the great esotericsit A.E. Waite bothered to translate it from the French at all.  Need an example?  India is described as \\"the Mother of all heresies\\" [laughable, were it not so pathetic an example of judeochristian resentiment].  And he seriously believes that the the books of the Old Testament describe the literal anthropology & history of the peoples of the Mideast, Ishmael=Islam and all the rest [fundamentalism so naive it would make a Trent Lott blush!].  The book's organization reflects the author's romance with Quaballah, but the chapters themselves are random collections of \\"ideas\\" on topics unrelated to the chapter titles [a stream-of-consciousness style the anticipated the great Joyce by half a century, albeit to no effect, aesthetic or otherwise].  The single high point of the book is Levi's description of spiritual love: \\"The true man elevates himself not by trying to possess the object of his desire but by raising himself to Her through devotion\\"  [its a pity he didn't know anything about Sufism or the key difference between magic and devotion].  Try Israel Regardie instead, who is at least steeped in Renaissance memory training, neo-Platonism and other worthies.  Remember that it is but a small (backwards) step that separates dog from god.	2002-12-25
US	49443858	R1P1F0CIRJE28E	0140192263	907715115	Astrology: The Evidence of Science (Arkana)	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Changes your view of astrology	Contrary to the previous unnecessarily harsh review, this book is an interested and informed view on contemporary neo-astrology.  The author, a professional astronomer, takes as his starting point the statistical associations documented by the Gauquelin's showing the influences of the various planets on professional achievement.  And Yes, the author is English, since no American astrologer has bothered to take Gauquelin seriously.  Likewise, most scientists dismiss astrology on purely ideological grounds--without, that is, having studied it.  That's Chapters 1-5, along with some history.  The main thesis begins with Chapter 6.  &quot;Just at the tides of the Moon in the upper atmosphere of Earth cause the measured lunar daily magnetic variation, so the tides of the planets in the magnetosphere, amplified by magnetic bays and estuaries [of the Sun] cause some of the variations of the magnetic filed that have already been detected but not yet studied in any detail. I propose that these variations [are] linked to...particular lines of force of the geomagnetic field that are 'in tune' with a particular planet...acting on the nervous system of individuals with the inherited characteristics associated with that particular planet...This, then, explains the Gauquelin planetary heredity effects.&quot; [p. 147].  Thus the author offers us a falsifiable scientific theory of neo-Astrology.  To help appreciate this feat, remember the electromagnetic basis of our nervous system and the statistical association of high-tension lines (or cell phones) with cancer incidence.  In addition to giving one pause to think, this work is a relief from the vague generalizations of American astrology, the formalism of Jungian Astrology and the empirical emptiness of Psychological Astrology<br />Anyone who has read Gauquelin should enjoy this book--and will have their eyes opened a little bit further while doing so.	2002-11-23
US	49443858	R3433IS9NGPQBU	0192839357	97762191	Vita Nuova (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Prelude to Comedy	The &quot;New Life&quot; was occasioned by Dante's integration of his meeting of the divine Beatrice and the meaning she held for him in his own psyche.  As such, it is an indispensable precursor to understanding his &quot;Commedia&quot; trilogy.  This work is fascinating because through it we experience Dante's growth, from your run-of-the-mill medieval troubadour praising courtly love, to a man raised to the heights of ecstasy by way of his soul's true guide, Beatrice.  A Jungian might say Beatrice was Dante's anima, projected onto a flesh-and-blood woman.  But Beatrice is no malicious deciever (as Jung described); she is more akin to Goethe's meaning at the end of &quot;Faust II&quot;--&quot;The eternal feminine/lures to perfection&quot; or Joyce's tranfiguration at the sight of the maiden &quot;gently stirring the water with her foot&quot; in the &quot;Portrait.&quot;  Dante's work is brilliant not only because it reveals the spiritual urge lying beneath the veneer of romantic love (a collective illusion that our culture still labors under) but because Dante guides us through his own inner journey, from goo-goo-eyed adulator weeping because love 'hurts so good,' through his psychological turn within to question his own need for a woman's &quot;pity,&quot; and on to his final integration of the feminine within, no longer dominated by his own unconscious need and able to follow Her from the depths of his own soul to the heights of glory.  Mark Musa is also the translator of the highly touted Indiana Critical Edition of the &quot;Commedia.&quot; But I found his translation occasionally stilted and unpoetic, when a few changes would have smoothed both verse and prose.  The footnotes were nearly useless, their content was often obvious or uninformative.  And they are very awkard to use:  they are denoted in the text by an * rather than a number and keyed in the Appendix by page number.  Unfortunately, only about half the pages are actually numbered, making the systemcumbersome indeed.  That said, I end with this:  Read it and weep.  And revel in its majesty.	2002-10-06
US	49443858	R28P81RN1FMA7O	093570227X	959641079	Home Is Where the Wind Blows: Chapters from a Cosmologist's Life	Books	4	9	9	N	N	&quot;Moving sideways like a crab&quot;	This is an often-fascinating glimpse into the life of the incomparable Sir Fred Hoyle, astronomer, cosmologist, panspermicist, sci-fi afficionado, stellar nucleosynthesist and generally mathematician/scientist extraordinaire.  I knew of Hoyle's work in stellar nucleosynthesis and steady-state cosmology before, but I came to this book intentionally after reading and thoroughly enjoying his sci-fi novels (especially &quot;The Black Cloud&quot; and &quot;A for Andromeda&quot;).  Here, we peer into Hoyle's life as a scientist, beginning with his stubborn truancy in grammar school and continuing with his adolescent chemistry experiments, his work for the British goverment in WWII, his involvement in astronomy and cosmology from the 1950's through the 1970's, and ending with his political duels with stodgy representatives of British institutional science and his critique of Big-Bang theory as sheer metaphysic, indicting all the while fundamentalists of all ilk, Big-bangers and Bible-thumpers alike.  His stories are often very funny, and those about Paul Dirac and Wolfgang Pauli (with whom he worked at Cambridge) are truly priceless.   However, I always find his prose a bit stilted, and slogging one's way through Hoylistc grammar and obscure British slang can make for some slow, hard reading.  Worst of all, several aspects of Hoyle's most interesting and controversial scientific work is completely absent, for example, panspermia (nothing to speak of) and evolutionary genetics (1-2 paragraphs).  And despite both the cover photograph and the fact that Hoyle wrote a well-received book on Stonehenge as an ancient observatory, there is not one word about Stonehenge here.  What a pity.  On the other hand, he does immerse us in his deep distrust of politics and politicians, and even give's us a taste of his surprisingly Vedanta-like spiritual attitude and a kind of Pythagorean wonder at the Universe.  The quote in my title is from Hoyle's self-described scientific activity as crab-like, inching foward cautiously over a lifetime.  All told, it is a fascinating life-story told by one of the 20th century's greatest scientific iconoclasts.	2002-09-13
US	49443858	R24HNIS757Y2IM	0192862022	903553676	The Crucible of Creation: The Burgess Shale and the Rise of Animals	Books	5	36	41	N	N	Superb study on the Burgess Shale	Morris, one of two contemporary specialists on the Burgess Shale, has produced an exceedingly well-written survey of the Burgess shale fauna and their meaning for evolutionary biology. The book is loaded with scores of B/W photos, 4 color drawings, a 13-page glossary of terms for the uninitiated, an imaginative underwater excursis with time-travelling paleontologists to the middle Cambrian, and a chapter on developmental evolutionary genetics (wherein he argues that many Burgess forms *are* related to contemporary forms).  Stephen Jay Gould's view of the significance of the Burgess Shale is that the bizarre life-forms seen then demonstrate the historical contingency of evolution--rewind the tape and let it play out again, and things would turn out differently (a la Jimmy Stewart's \\"Wonderful Life\\").  Morris's thesis is that Gould's tape-player metaphor is misleading, overemphasizing contingency at the cost of ignoring the powerful role played by ecology . One need only consider the evolution of convergent traits in insular life-forms (e.g., Australian marsupial cat-like predators) to get the point.  (I should point out that I am suspicious of monolithic theories from either pole of the necessity-chance spectrum.)  I find it unfortunate that Gould never discussed Bradley Efron's Bootstrap, a technique used widely in evolutionary and population genetics, or cellular automata, a la Stuart Kauffman, which give rise to the same recurrent patterns with astonishing regularity.)  Morris is an adaptationist senstive to the power of ecology to shape evolution, who sees Burgess forms not as deviant freaks that accidentally went extinct but as ancestral to contemporary animals.  As usual, there is likely to be truth to both positions; indeed, in some ways, their different views turn on different understandings of probability.  For anyone with more than a passing interest in evolutionary biology and paleontology, who finds Gould's incessant digressions distracting, or wonders about the hypertrophy of contingency, this book should not be missed.	2002-09-01
US	49443858	R2PSGQO0GMHHH5	0198149883	409416950	Ancient Philosophy, Mystery, and Magic: Empedocles and Pythagorean Tradition	Books	4	14	21	N	N	Interesting & worthwhile, but very academic	I was led to this book by John Opsopaus' superb \\"Pythagorean Tarot,\\" wherein he mentions that Kingsley demonstrated that Empedocles was a shaman (\\"iatromantis,\\" that is).  Everything said about this book so far is true:  It *is* an interesting and valuable read;  it *is* highly technical; and Kingsley definitely takes on every other classical scholar in clearing the air, removing historical debris and cultural bias, and establishing a new standard of personal involvement in classical scholarship.  My take is that one can get the gist of his conclusions in chapters 15 & 19 (and perhaps 20 & 22), without wading through all the scholarly minutae.  This groundwork was probably necessary to remove the blinders from our collective eyes imposed by an earlier generation of Greek scholars overly wowed by science and strangely detached from personal experience.  In the end, I look forward to reading Kingsley's \\"Dark Places of Wisdom.\\"	2002-09-01
US	49443858	R244EWQKVTGIUV	0060028459	259976	October the First is Too Late	Books	5	17	18	N	N	Another Sci-Fi Gem from Sir Fred Hoyle	I've said it before and I'll say it again:  It is a great pity that Sir Fred Hoyle, scientist, mathematician and polymath extraordinaire, has yet to be recognized as one of our greatest Sci-Fi writers, comparable in importance to HG Wells, AC Clarke, PK Dick and Wm Gibson.  Wit and intelligence shine through this brillant story about time out of joint and parallel universes, with the 2 main characters providing an interesting contrast between Apollonian (the scientist) and Dionysian (the musician) approaches to life.  (For a professional astronomer, Hoyle has a brilliant feel for music, but I hear he was also an accomplished drummer!) The story jumps times and places, from Periclean Greece to the distant, pessimistic future, with another poignant ending.  Should be required reading for true Sci-Fi fans.	2002-08-07
US	49443858	R2FQ253X7ICAMD	0899683444	100524300	The Black Cloud	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Brilliant (as usual)	There's not much to add to the reviews below.  Sir Fred Hoyle, scientist and polymath extraordinaire, was also one of our greatest sci-fi novelists, and it is a pity that his SF works are not better known.  Anyway, its all here with a brilliant prescience:  scientific discovery, political obtrusiveness, nuclear winter, the steady-state universe theory, the unintelligibility of extraterrestial intelligent life, right down to the tragic ending.  Any lover of thoughtful SF should read this excellent book.	2002-08-07
US	49443858	R38AI6G4VT2DKH	0933999526	96310101	The Eternal Hermes: From Greek God to Alchemical Magus	Books	3	59	60	N	N	Interesting but disappointing	I was disappointed to find that this is not a book-length study on Hermes.  Instead, it is a collection of articles related by the fact that this same author has written broadly on the topic of Hermes.  The collection was edited to reduce (but not eliminate) repetition of subject matter.  Most unfortunately, the mythistorical progression implied in the subtitle (&quot;From Greek God to Alchemical Magus&quot;) is only weakly developed.  The articles are uneven in length, varying from 10-40 pages. They also vary in depth and quality.  Chapter 1 (&quot;Hermes in the Western Imagination&quot;) was good, and there are interesting tidbits throughout (for example, St. Augustine's hostile reaction to the Hermetica).  But by the time we reach the last chapter (&quot;The Inheritance of Alexandrian Hermeticism&quot;), the discourse has been reduced to a kind of glorified historical bibliography. The 39 B/W plates are interesting.  But the overall approach is curiously concerned with form over substance or experience.  For example, we are told repeatedly (pp. 40, 60, 100) how Causabon proved in 1614 that the Hermetica could not be older than 2nd-3rd c. CE, yet we are not told exactly what philological trick he used to do that.  Nor does our author speculate as to what impact that inference might actually have on a tradition that explictly refers its own origins to teachings in a meditative dream-state (Corpus Hermeticum I.1).  As another example, we are explicitly told (p. 60) that the retelling of the myths of the Fall and reintegration, as well as the philosophical, practical and theurgical implications, are the task of Theosophy--and, by implication, are not part of the intent here.  Overall, these pieces are not nearly so impoverished as Doniger-O'Flaherty's structuralist reduction of Vedic myth, but neither does it overflow with rich historical portraits like Frances Yates, nor is it nearly so sympathetic &amp; interiorized as Mircea Eliade (to whom Faivre was compared). In short, if you had, like me, IMAGINED more, you will, like me, need to look elsewhere.	2002-08-04
US	49443858	R1X7L6PJ8GLG7Z	1567511112	253063843	Mad Cow USA: Could the Nightmare Happen Here?	Books	5	41	43	N	N	TSE dangers fairly RENDERED	Like kuru, scrapie and CJD, BSE (\\"mad cow disease\\") is a Transmissible Spongiform Encephalopathy (TSE), a fatal neurological disease transmitted by prions.  That is, the infectious agent is a defectively folded prion protein, not a living pathogen like a virus or bacteria.  It can survive being incinerated, or being buried for years in the ground with only a modest reduction in its disease-causing ability.  The epidemiological model for the danger of BSE is kuru, a fatal but otherwise rare neurological disease that was common among New Guinea highlanders back in the 50's and 60's.  Kuru reached epidemic proportions due to the practice of human cannibalism, usually of the brain.  The regional government finally banned the practice, which (eventually) led to the decline of kuru incidence.   <br />So what's this got to do with hamburgers?  \\"Rendering\\" is the innocuous term for the practice of grinding up left-over animal organs, tissues, spinal cords etc that are considered unfit for human consumption, then selling it as Meat & Bone Meal (MBM) or Tallow.  Agribusinesses use MBM as cattle and pig food and fertilizer (like on vegetables...); tallow has many uses including in the pharmaceuticals and cosmetics industries.  Rendering is cow cannibalism, as it were, which is believed to have amplified the incidence of BSE in Britain, just as cannibalism amplified kuru in New Guinea.  If you have never heard of rendering then you need to read this book.  The British experience of CJD should have been a lesson to US politicians, bureacrats, cattlemen, and the FDA, because the \\"new variant\\" of CJD that has killed numerous British persons is actually a prion disease derived from the BSE prion, that is, from cattle.  That is, people have died from from eating prion-infected beef.  <br />It is also worth noting that CWD, or Chronic Wasting Disease, is another prion disease currently becoming a major health problem in wild cervids (deer, elk and so on)--and potentially in the people who hunt and eat them.  Large, prion-infected deer populations have been reported in several states, including Wisconsin and Colorado.  As of today (14 July 2002), Wisconsin opened deer season several months early & intends to keep it open all year, in order to decimate a population of 25,000 prion-infected deer.  Guess what?  The NBC news report did not mention that CWD is a prion disease related to BSE, probably because they didn't know (& didn't bother finding out).  But guess what else?  Prions rather easily jump species boundaries: mink to cattle, cattle to human, squirrel to human....Once opened, its a real Pandora's box that sets one's mind to wandering. <br />[To really be in the know, try a Web search on \\"cattle rendering\\" and read what you find.  It's enough to make you sick. Cow and pig tissues are widely used in the pharmaceutical industry and in many products intended indirectly for human consumption: hog feed, chicken feed. It is also used in pet food--to think that even my cats might be eating this stuff.  There was also a report of a British vegan--a *vegan*, mind you, for a dozen years--who inadvertently got CJD from her pet cat food.]  <br />Despite the flambuoyant title, this is a well-researched and closely reasoned book.  It is also well-written and an exciting read.  The frightening thing is how unknown these dangers are... This may or may not be the final word on the subject (an update on progress since 1997 would be nice), but it is certainly an eye-opener.  If you don't do anything else, read the quote from Nobel laureate Carleton Gadjusek on page 218 (Gadjusek solved the Kuru mystery). In my opinion, the broad public health and policy implications of prion diseases and the practice of rendering make this book a must-read for every informed citizen.	2002-07-14
US	49443858	R32OTY8ZIKMY3J	0140259198	782566565	The Island of the Day Before	Books	2	15	18	N	N	Liber Incognita	After 300 pages, my wife asked me what this book was about, and I had to think for a minute:  A man named Roberto, who was in some 17th c. Franco-Spanish war, writing love letters to his obscure object of desire that he never delivers, then he's on some French ship trying to discover the secret of longitude, and something about a dog and sympathetic magic, then he's on some other ship full of weird clocks and plants and birds and aqua vitae and some unseen Other, who turns out to be a post-plague priest, all mixed up with an X-Files-type modus mysterium operandi that promises much but delivers little.  &quot;But what's it ABOUT!?&quot; she asked again.  After 300 pages and several weeks of labor, I conceded that I did not know.  &quot;So why are you reading it?&quot; she asked.  <br />I realized that the only reason I had continued so long was because Eco has a reputation as a good author.  I abandoned my efforts, and I would warn similarly unvigilant readers to beware: This book is a plot-free caricature of a good Eco novel. (cf. the previous reviewer's comment that &quot;the prose so perfectly transcends the plot&quot;).  But I did not find the prose particularly good:  some adolescent turns of phrases that rapidly become repetitive, long Latin neologisms looking like chapter titles, some cleverness (&quot;Aristotelean telescope&quot;) strewn amidst strings of impressively large words, and an awkward grammar filled with meaningless places and hard-to-remember names.  If you haven't read this one, don't bother.  Stick to &quot;Foucault's Pendulum&quot; (or perhaps some very good sci-fi; Fred Hoyle, for example), something that rewards your reading time with interest and not a studied boredom.	2002-07-09
US	49443858	R1Z1RKL5DHR32Q	9997403673	857404985	A for Andromeda	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A for Apotheosis	It is a sad fact that Fred Hoyle--astrophysicist, cosmologist, nucleosynthecist, panspermicist and generally polymath extraordinaire--is not better recognized as one of our greatest sci-fi authors.  Without a doubt, this book is one of the best sci-fi novels I have ever read.  (FYI, I also like Arthur C. Clarke, Isaac Asimov, Ray Bradbury, Lewis Shiner, William Gibson, Philip K. Dick and H.G. Wells).  All I can do is briefly outline the plot:  An eccentric and somewhat egocentric radioastronmer...computer scientist detects a signal from the constellation Andromeda on Britain's largest radiotelescope that is obviously an intelligent message.  Once decoded, it turns out to be a design for a highly advanced super-computer.  Once built, the computer designs recombinant human DNA and grows highly advanced \\"human beings\\" with which it communicates in its apparent intent to take over the earth.  Due to cold-war politics and the obvious advantages to the government of having a supercomputer, and not least to the protagonist's difficult personality, the government authorities won't believe him and refuse to pull the plug, moving this brilliant and exciting story inexorably along to its superb and tragic ending.  The characters are complex and mutlifaceted and the story is a real thriller.  Highly recommended.	2002-07-09
US	49443858	R3TBUDG0YWC8KX	0848801571	589013680	Childhoods End	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Philosophy in the Tragic Age of Sci Fi	I can't speak as to his other works, but this work really is a bit of genius.  It's an exciting read (I finished it in 2 sittings), with almost no fluff or triviality (excepting the physical appearance of the Overlords, which I found rather silly--and hardly universal). Though clothed as a sci-fi novel, it is philosophical in the extreme and is deeply influenced by Nietzsche.  Consider: the &quot;Overlords&quot; (=ubermenschen), the &quot;Last Man&quot; and his pettiness in not being made for the stars, the implicit contrast between the Apollonian (the Overlords &amp; their seemingly all-powerful intellect  undercut with despair in its own ultimate failure and subservience to an incomprehensible Higher Power) and the Dionysian (humankind's evolutionary offspring, with their utter disregard for their own precursors in their collective absorption in transcendental, universe-bending ritual), and the author's deep interest in the occult (see Clarke's rambling new preface, in the [slightly] revised edition).  A definite must-read, with layers of meaning and a disturbingly tragic ending.	2002-06-16
US	49443858	R9IF4L5IZV97T	0195150406	194371120	The Atom in the History of Human Thought	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Only a Frenchman	could have written this opus on the history of atomic theory AND felt compelled to cite the views of both Nietzsche (the phenomenalist Antichrist) and Marx (\\"Hadrons of the World Unite\\"??). To round things out, there's even a quote from Levi-Strauss!  To be sure, this is a flawed opus. Published posthumously in 1998 (the author died in 1996), the text has a hurried feel to it, as if compiled from notes by an anonymous editor.  As a consequence, the coverage is as uneven as the chapter lengths variable.  Chapter 6 (\\"Principles and Primordial Substances\\") consists of one very helpful figure with a one-paragraph description, together occupying the better part of a single page.   The chapter on \\"Hindu Atomism\\" (much touted in the pages of the journal, Science) rightly attribues atomism to the Hindu Nyaya-Vaishisheka school.  But it neglects the much more prominent place of atomism in Buddhism (with its doctrine of momentariness), devoting only 1/2 page (of 8 total!) to Buddhist thought.  In contrast, the chapter on the 20th century takes up nearly 100 pages.  On the whole, Western philosophy fares better; yet the hackneyed phrasing of Whitehead's famous quote about footnotes to Plato--\\"All of Western philosophy is but a long commentary on the writings of Plato\\" [p.49]--indicates that the translation leaves something to be desired.  Still, the work does have its \\"moments.\\"  Part I on the Greek inception of atomic theory, 4 element theory, Platonic/Pythagorean modifications, and the Aristotelean arch-enemy (of undifferentiated substance and divinely impressed form) is excellent, as is Part IV, which focuses on the scientific developments of the 19th & 20th centuries.  The intervening Parts II (the \\"dark ages\\") and III (Renaissance to Enlightenment) are tedious and unhelpful litanies of obscure names devoid of historical context.  The 7-page chapter on Kant is particularly disappointing (nor does the author seem to recognize the strong similarity with Bohr's views).  Dittothe naive comment that \\"a few philosophers such as Hume occasionally challenged the notion of causality.\\"  Had the author not intentionally dodged the fundamental problem of the relationship between \\"the mathematical structures produced by the human mind with the structure of phenomena of Nature\\" (p. 291),  this book would have been far richer. Instead, like Epicurus, his true motivation is to extol the *moral* value of atomism in an accidental universe without purpose (cf. p. 212), and to debunk the Aristotelean/Catholic notion underlying transubstantiation of the Eucharist (p. 125).  This partially explains his not infrequent lapses into Whiggism (cf. pp. 224, 233, 241). Still,  there is not another work like this one.  And although \\"the victory of the classical atomic theory proved short-lived...if it had ever materialized [p. 256, sic!]\\" the unfolding of the atomic vision of the universe, from the pre-Socratics to quantum uncertainty, makes an exhilirating story.	2002-05-18
US	49443858	RLTELJYL49GQK	0140194398	757849719	The Astrology of I Ching: Translated from the `Ho Map Lo Map Rational No.' Manuscript (Arkana)	Books	2	4	10	N	N	Muddled &amp; mediocre	I was attracted to this book by its promising title, but inside I found plenty of reasons to be both disappointed and skeptical.  First, skeptical:  The authors &amp; their credentials are only vaguely described and it shows in the poor scholarship, muddled explanations and modest literary achievement.  I am not even convinced that there really exists an ancient work in Chinese from which this book is supposed to have been translated.  Now, disappointed:  The Introductory essay of ~60 pages is extremely poorly written and fails to explain any astronomical basis of I Ching astrology.  It includes 10-15 pages of dense and poorly explained numerology (*no* astronomy or astrology) interspersed with about a dozen unexplained tables, that supposedly somehow connects astronomy to the I Ching hexagrams.  That essay would be absolutely essential to using this system but it fails to explain anything.  On the other hand, when I attempted to follow the cryptic instructions of looking up unexplained numbers cross-referenced in the dozen tables, I was led to a hexagram that captures some of the quintessence of my life.  After all, that is what I have come to expect from that ancient Sage.  However, the rest of the bulk of the book consists of a mediocre translation of the I Ching. In my opinion, just buy Richard Wilhelm's or Master Huang's translation and cast your questions there.  But cast this disappointment to the nearest public library, where I found a copy, and be done with it.	2001-11-30
US	49443858	R23S1XVHHKAMXJ	0802801587	846653051	Blaise Pascal: Reasons of the Heart (Library of Religious Biography Series)	Books	2	8	37	N	N	What reasons?	Make no mistake: this is *not* a book about Pascal the man, nor even a book about Pascal the (ascetic) Christian, but an excruciatingly painful book about the minutiae of Pasal's historical milieu and a long-winded discussion of the Jesuit/Jansenist dispute.  I found the writing awkward in the extreme, with topical areas abstruse and singularly irrelevant to learning anything particularly useful about Pascal's life.  (Well, given Pascal's later penchant for asceticism and renunciation of all pleasures--like enjoying steak dinners, the company of friends, or exercising his intellectual curiosity by inventing probability theory--at least that style was rhetorically appropriate!)  Most of what *was&quot; useful here can easily be found elsewhere.  For example, when the converted Pascal visited his secular friends, he used to wear a belt studded with pins or nails on the inside so they poked him painfully in the waist, lest he enjoy their company too much.  This fact I discovered in Guinness' introductory essay to Houston's &quot;Mind on Fire&quot; and *not* in the present book.  In fact, I learned more about Pascal there and from on-line biographies that from this piece of work.  Mind you, one should not expect to learn this from a Christian writer and a Christian publishing house, but Pascal's natal astrology chart clearly illustrates the problems and paradoxes that he faced in life:  Venus in Cancer squaring the Moon's Nodes and opposing Mars in Capricorn, with healing Chiron in Taurus, and a Stellium (Jupiter conjunct Saturn conjunct Uranus) in Leo.  No wonder Pascal felt so torn by fame-and-fortune seeking of his keen mind, yet was irresistibly drawn to a fiery fundamentalism and an ascetic life-style! But all Mr. O'Connell can do is muster up a bit of pity for poor Blaise's &quot;restless heart [that] never quite purged itself of a lust for fame and worldly success [6].&quot;  Overall, the book did virtually nothing to illuminate the quote that inspired the title:  &quot;The heart has its reasons, of which Reason knows nothing,&quot; which was my reason for reading the book.  Nor does it adequately explain other paradoxes: How could a genius like Pascal, fundamentalist or not, turn in a friend to the religious police for being a heretic? Why he was so bonded to his sister and why, with Cancer so prominent in his chart, did he never marry?  Why his extremist embrace of original sin and human depravity?  The book may have value or even be a big hit among believing Christians.  But for a pagan neo-Vedantist yogi like me, this book shed absolutely no light at all on how a genius like Pascal wrestled with Ego to reconcile himself to Abstinence or (to paraphrase Kant) how he denied Reason in order to affirm Spirit.  I'll have to find those reasons elsewhere....&quot;The heart has its reasons, of which Reason knows nothing,&quot; which was my reason for reading the book.  Nor does it adequately explain other paradoxes: How could a genius like Pascal, fundamentalist or not, turn in a friend to the religious police for being a heretic? Why he was so bonded to his sister and why, with Cancer so prominent in his chart, did he never marry?  Why his extremist embrace of original sin and human depravity?  The book may have value or even be a big hit among believing Christians.  But for a pagan neo-Vedantist yogi like me, this book shed absolutely no light at all on how a genius like Pascal wrestled with Ego to reconcile himself to Abstinence or (to paraphrase Kant) how he denied Reason in order to affirm Spirit.  I'll have to find those reasons elsewhere....	2001-11-30
US	49443858	RC9LJ4Z4W8URZ	0691018766	918749276	Paracelsus: Selected Writings	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Paracelsian Primer	Overall, this is a decent effort.  The long introductory essay puts Paracelsus' life and works in perspective.  And the many wood-block reprints from the general period are interesting--if a bit distracting, since they are interpolations not drawn by Paracelsus himself and not appearing in the original works.  But certainly, after hearing so much about Paracelsus from various readings in alchemy (including Jung, who wrote the Preface here), I quite enjoyed reading Paracelsus himself.  The downside is that this primer is composed of short paragraphs plucked from all of Paracelsus' published works, shorn of context, then thrust into juxtaposition with whatever else the editor thought fit into the same category.  So the readings are jumpy, paragraph by paragraph leaping amongst all 13 or so of Paracelsus' collected works.  Many of the most interesting subjects are not covered at all or only thinly, including Paracelsus views on astrology, alchemy, magic and medicine.  And much of it is given over to his (largely Christian) theological speculations--even tho' no one reads Paracelsus for his theology.  All in all, this primer will whet your appetite for something more substantial. Personally, I can't wait to get a copy of &quot;Archicoxes of Magic&quot; or the A.E. Waite collection.  But this book will point you in the right direction.	2001-11-27
US	49443858	R1NH3OIN86HJTF	0691019185	319605885	Analytical Psychology	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Deconstructing Jung	Deconstructing Jung.<BR>This book derives from a written transcript of a seminar held about the time Jung broke with Freud and had a psychotic episode (&quot;nervous breakdown&quot; is how you usually hear about it).  I came to this book after years of reading many of Jung's published works  (beginning with his &quot;Autobiography&quot; &amp; &quot;Man and His Symbols&quot; and later several of his Collected Works: &quot;Archetypes and The Collective Unconscious,&quot; &quot;Psychology and Alchemy,&quot; &quot;Alchemical Studies,&quot; &quot;Aion;&quot; as well as the essays collected in &quot;Modern Man in Search of a Soul&quot; and Vincent Brome's fine biography, &quot;Jung: Man and Myth&quot;).  <br />What I like about the present book is this:  Jung's books are not easy to understand (he's an alchemist, remember).  And many of his followers hollowly parrot what they understood the Master to have said.  And his god-like status as a Western shaman is an awesome subcultural projection to overcome-yet one must do so to go beyond the myth and encounter one's own destiny, above and beyond merely imitating Jung's life or blindly following his erstwhile &quot;system.&quot;   (You know, I have seldom had a dream in four parts, making it a quadraplicity, yet my dreams are not incomplete.)  This book reveals Jung the man working on himself and dealing with his own problems:  the break with Freud, his psychotic episode, women/anima problems.  The most notable aspect of this seminar is the time dwelt on anima problems, specifically Rider Haggard's novel, &quot;She,&quot; the prototypical story of the anima or inner-woman-as-soul that every man must somehow wrestle (whether via Jung's understanding or some other).  Jung only alludes to this novel in his published books; here, it is discussed in considerable detail, revealing insights as well as shortcomings in Jung's thought.  In many ways, much of the material here was familiar from other books.  Yet it is the personal, intimate quality of Jung-the-man's seminar that breathed life into otherwise dusty, grey concepts that appealed to me here.  I was led to this book via Brome's biography (above), who also recommended Jung's earlier book, &quot;Psychology of the Unconsious&quot; as the version of these researches published by Jung himself in his lifetime.	2001-11-02
US	49443858	R32L5S5IQ147IX	1896064000	166524871	Vedic "Aryans" and the origins of civilization: A literary and scientific perspective	Books	3	40	48	N	N	Wheat from the chaff	&quot;Vedic Aryans&quot; purports to be a &quot;literary and scienific perspective&quot; on the antiquity of classical Vedic civilization.  The thesis is that Rig Vedic civilization arose sometime after the end of the last ice age (~12,000 BCE) and after the very ancient city of Mehgarh (6000BCE), declined ~3700 BCE, then was *followed* by the Indus River civilizations of Harappa and Mohenjo-Daro (3000 BCE).  (Never mind that the oldest known settlement of Jerico does not appear in their chronology even though it is dated to 7000 BCE, nor that there is no known relationship between Harappan &amp; Sanskrit languages.)  While it is refreshing to read someone so thoroughly versed in ancient Sanskrit literature, especially the Puranas and various mathematical treatises, the emphasis throughout is on literary sources.  And it is precisely the over-emphasis on literary sources that is the problem here.  If Muller et al. were wrong in drawing up their time-tables based on undatable Vedic (and Biblical) chronologies, why should it be right to merely turn the tables by drawing up a different time-table based on some other chronology drawn from similarly undatable documents?  That's just the same game played in reverse and susceptible to the same criticisms.  Why not try something new?  There are some strong and interesting points:  varna did not originally mean &quot;color,&quot; hence race, but referred instead to the guna predominant in a person's personality (as we know from the Gita and the Manu-smriti).  Hence, Vedic battles between &quot;Dark&quot; (asuras) and &quot;Light&quot; (devas) did not refer to light-skinned Aryan invaders conquering dark-skinned native Dravidians but to the metaphoric struggle of good over evil.  The authors are certainly correct in saying that this racial theory has prejudiced many discussions of ancient India and the relationship between the Indus River and the Vedic civilizations (see, for example, Joseph Campbell's surprising put-down ofDravidian culture in his &quot;Masks of God: Oriental Mythology.&quot;) But one of downsides is the thorough thrashing of Max Muller (not to mention Tharpar, the Indian historian whom everyone love to hate), whose &quot;ignorance of science [11]&quot; prevented his understanding the mathematical treatises interpreted here, and who was not only &quot;an agent of the British Empire [p. 10]&quot; but &quot;a Protestant missionary [6].&quot;  (Never mind that this demon single-handedly invented modern comparative philology or that his &quot;Sacred Books of the East&quot; introduced the whole of the modern world--India included--to our Vedic heritage.)  Now if some Westerner were to base a chronology purely on textual evidence (for example, Bishop Usher, who dated Creation to 23 October 4004 BCE [p. 6] on the basis of Old Testament genealogies), we would likely consider him a fundamentalist kook out of touch with contemporary geology and scientific dating methods. But when done using Vedic source material, we are supposed to shrug off disbelief.  Thus, despite numerous interesting highpoints--including the development of Tilak's thesis that sidereal precession is symbolically coded in the Vedas and allows astronomical dating--this work is, in motivation, a manifesto of contemporary Hindu fundamentalism that merely turns the tables on the old Aryan invasion arguments without offering either credible new data or substantially new ways of seeing things.  All the while, they fail to heed Mallory's warning to not over-extrapolate from literary evidence.  To their credit, they do not (like other authors) argue that Vedic culture dates back 4,320,000 years 'cause that's how long a yuga is &amp; the Mahabharata says so.  Yet the proselytizing and sometimes shrill tone contributes little to informed debate on the interesting and important topic of the origins of civilization.  <br />In my opinion, the problem here involves a misunderstanding of the Vedic revelation and an unconsious idealization of literality and historicity.  That is, the Vedas aren't eternal because they were revealed to some Indian Aryan in Meghar or Kashi or Ayodhya in 6000 or 4000 or 2000 BCE, but because the knowledge is eternally accessible to the sincere spiritual seeker through the trance states and other yogic practices of ancient India.  Isn't that what's truly important?  <br />Furthermore, as I indicated earlier, the book's overt political agenda distracts from the real issues.  Rather than harping about how awful Muller and Tharpar are, why not tell readers that the seals from Mohenjo-Daro and Harappa have not yet been deciphered and that we still do not understand their language.  Tell them that Mohnejo-Daro is now buried in a sea of silt and saline and cannot be further excavated without a huge investment of money, time and labor.  Tell them that Mohenjo-daro and Harappa are in modern-day PAKISTAN and, rather than nuking Kashmir, these 2 countries should actively cooperate in uncovering the roots of their glorious past.  Well, but that would be too overtly political... <br />Overall, the book is about equally disappointing as Feuerstein et al's &quot;In Search of the Cradle of Civilization&quot; but with a more scholarly feel and with fewer (i.e., no) illustrations.  For a broader view of Tilak's thesis, see de Santillana's superb &quot;Hamlet's Mill&quot; (Sidharth's &quot;Celestial Key to the Vedas&quot; has also gotten some good reviews).  For similar books having a more balanced perspective, see Mallory's excellent &quot;Origins of the Indo-Europeans,&quot; Bryant's &quot;Quest for the Origins of Vedic Culture&quot; which promises to be far less partisan, and Time/Life's &quot;Ancient India: Land of Mystery&quot; which is sound historically and archaeologically.	2001-10-24
US	49443858	R2TYW8H9VQFCAI	0916360245	879553931	ASTROLOGICAL HOUSES	Books	3	19	30	N	N	House of Vapor	After hearing so many wonderful things about Dane Rudhyar, I read this book and found it extremely vauge and of virtually no use to me.  For one thing, there was no discussion of different house systems (Placidus, Koch, Whole-House, etc.)  We can hardly know what we mean, until we agree on *what* we are talking about, can we?  Many astrologers do not use a House system at all, either abandoning them altogether or--given the controversies over different House systems--use only the angles (Asc/Desc plus MC/IC axes).  Assuming you want to use Houses, isn't it enough to know that 1st=Aires, 2=Taurus, etc., and then study and contemplate the meaning of those signs?  Nor was there a historical section discussing how Houses arose and what different astrologers in different times and cultures had to say about them.  Finally, I find Rudhyar's writing vaporous in the extreme, the kind of language so vague &amp; indefinite that it includes everything and therefore nothing at all: &quot;God, the Universe and everything else.&quot; I frankly find his whole approach overly-systematized, viz. the hatchet job he did on Marc Edmund Jone's &quot;Sabian Symbols,&quot; wherein he rewrote, re-interpreted and re-arranged the original degree-by-degree readings made by Jone's psychic friend in Balboa Park, San Diego early in the 20th century, in order to conform to Rudhyar's own System.  I would advise anyone interested to know more about Houses to read Seymour-Smith's &quot;New Astrologer,&quot; which includes an excellent overview and comparison of different House systems.	2001-10-19
US	49443858	R22STRT2B7EOWN	0893891584	182631483	Tantra Unveiled	Books	2	17	61	N	N	magical	Here it is, the definitive account of Tantra. Assume Yoga, Gita, Veda, Acharya, Ramayana, Pranayama and Vedanta. Now contemplate the subtitle, &quot;Seducing the Forces of Nature.&quot; What could be greater than seducing Mahakali, the Great Goddess herself, into giving us everything our teensy little hearts desire? Yet one must be wary of who is seducing whom. &quot;Wallowing in ignorance time and again, the fools imagine, 'We have reached our aim!' Because of their passion, they do not understand, these people who are given to rites. Therefore, they fall, wretched and forlorn, when their heavenly stay comes to a close [Mundaka Upanishad 1.2.9].&quot; On a practical level, there are photos of how to hold one's hands in mudra (again, assume the basics of adoration and supplication). There is also a 60-day ritual for curing insomnia, that is bound to put anyone to sleep. More secret knowledge is available from bona-fide lineage-holders. Just remember: it's not *nice* to fool Mother Nature....	2001-08-31
US	49443858	R23YH44EXVWEOT	0486262987	251255656	Alchemy (Dover Books on Engineering)	Books	3	18	20	N	N	Alchemy as Nascent Chemistry	This pleasant little primer on alchemy was first published in 1957, by a respected British historian of chemistry.  His view on alchemy is summarized by his quotation of Socrates on the Pre-Socratics (even then known only through fragments): he agreed with what he could understand and, as for what he couldn't, he could only guess that perhaps they were right.  So our author is not overly judgemental about the early alchemists, mistaken as they must be the philosopher's stone and ignorant of the fundamentals of modern scientific chemistry.  The book is very uneven:  only 8 pages on Greek alchemy (including barely 2 pages on Zosimos) but 65 pages on Islamic alchemy--a fact that reflects his decided slant toward the more modern, scientific alchemists.  The most interesting and useful sections concern his biographies, especially a whole chapter on Paracelsus and a chapter each on Scottish and French alchemists.  Especially interesting is his story about Alexander Seton (p.223-232) who, like a true Merlin or Taoist wizard, quietly toured Europe having unbelievers transform gold from lead with his secret powder, never touching the preparations himself.  Still, our author concludes that the innumerable accounts by reliable eyewitnesses were all, somehow, fakes--a conclusion he reaches after &quot;rejecting as we must the hypothesis that Seton effected genuine transmutations&quot; [p. 232].  That should give you a taste of this opus.  You will need to look elsewhere for psychological (Jung) or hermetic (Goddard, Evola) perspectives on alchemy.  Nevertheless, this is a decent historical overview of the field and not a bad place to start.	2001-07-23
US	49443858	R1VCD4KZI5HVX5	0892814098	252462022	The Body of Myth: Mythology, Shamanic Trance, and the Sacred Geography of the Body	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Homer as Sadhaka?	The thesis of this book is that the &quot;body of myth&quot; is the physical body as perceived by yogis during yogic trance (samadhi).   Proprioception (the &quot;white noise&quot; of the senses idling in the absence of external sensory input) on various anatomical regions, including the senses themselves or other bodily regions, gave rise to an esoteric body of description of interior states experienced during samadhi.  These descriptions constitute the stuff of mythology.  Thus, the Greek assault upon the very door of Troy represents proprioception on the skull's fissure located at the position of the third eye, the assault being the yogi's breath internally stimulating the fissure during pranayama.  The work is interesting, extremely well-grounded in its familiarity with Greek mythology and Patanjali yoga, and is exemplary in its lived scholarship.  Like Mircea Eliade, the author is no mere book-bound &quot;scholar&quot; but lives and breathes in these topics.  Examples abound--but that is part of the problem.  First, although all the myths discussed are capitalized (e.g., the ASSAULT ON TROY), there is nowhere a glossary summarizing these tales for the mythologically challenged.  Second, like Darwin, the author argues geologically, adducing scores of examples, layer piled upon layer, that not so much convince as cause conformity from sheer pressure and the weight of example.  The thesis would gain empirical support were it discovered that the ancient Greeks were familiar with yogic practices.  But nothing like that is known (and is certainly unlikely prior to Alexander's 4th c. BCE Indian campaign).  And the Eleusian Mysteries--the major Greek esoteric tradition--remain just that, mysteries.  True, it is difficult to prove *any* thesis in *any* literary criticism, because ancient texts do not fully speak to the praxis (which was trasmitted experientially) and because texts, like the gods, are multivalent.  Still, an interesting read....	2001-07-20
US	49443858	R2CTDSYQCVBRVR	1571741704	203822087	The Living Energy Universe	Books	3	36	53	N	N	God's Energy Rit Softly	GERS--that is (that's the author's acronym)--has written a book full of WHIFFLES (Wonderfully Happy If Fairly Fluffy &amp; Long-winded Esoteric Sentiments).  Standing naked in a lit hotel room in Vancouver late one night twenty years ago, the author was suddenly struck how all those photons would forever carry his naked image all over the universe.  Rather than turn out the lights--both the hotel lamp and his own CANDLES (Continuous, Aeternal and Noetically Dynamic Light and Energy of the Soul) he quit his job at BINILU (BIg Name Ivy League University) and went to work with Andrew Weil in Arizona.  Hat's off to a FORMIL-BS (FORMer Ivy League Big Shot) with the courage to jump off the phony career ladder propped against the wrong wall!  Personally, I found the book a bit STUFFY (Slightly Too Unfocussed, Fluffy &amp; Fantastic for You), chockful of NAHS (New Age Hopeful Sentiments), too many LISTS (LIghtweight Scientific TrappingS) and peppered with plenty of STATS (Silly or Tired Acronyms That Signify).  Well, the abundance of acronyms did have a couple of highpoints: LOVE = Listening, Observing, Valuing, Empowering, which I use with my spouse.  And the reference to P. Pearsall's book, &quot;The Heart's Code,&quot; about heart transplant recipients recalling memories from their heart donors, was valuable.  But his idea that future science will allow us to telephone dead people made me SMILE (Suggest Meekly that Its a Longshot Escapade).  So, if all this sounds like your cup of tea, then you must be in HEAVEN (Happily Enjoying Auspicious Visualizations of the Eclectic New-age).	2001-07-18
US	49443858	R3ND68AQLAQ5AX	0520218795	18710054	A Different Nature: The Paradoxical World of Zoos and Their Uncertain Future	Books	5	17	19	N	N	from the Science review	See the excellent review of this book in the journal, Science (Vol. 292, page 1304, 18 May 2001), by Michalel H. Robinson, the former director of the US National Zoo.  The role of zoos is normally conceived of as fourfold: to promote recreation, education, research and conservation.   He concludes that, in fact, only the very best zoos realize this potential.  How many visitors, for example, leave a zoo knowing more about animal needs or their native habitats than when they entered?  This reflects a failure of zoological parks to promote &quot;biological literacy.&quot;  Part of the problem is the frequent catering of zoological parks to show off charismatic vertebrates to humans desiring to see them.  Yet it is increasingly recognized that effective conservation must be ecological in scope and based on large-scale &quot;in situ&quot; preservation of habitats.  This book calls for a new vision of Zoological Gardens, to help save the world around us.	2001-07-10
US	49443858	R10OKNTIWQZKN	8120807545	970584895	Origin of the Young God: Kalidasa's Kumarasambhava	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Sublime and priceless	Kalidasa is considered the greatest poet/playwright of India, and this work not only his best but the best long poem in classical Sanskrit, as well.  Rich in allusions to the mythology and stories of the Vedic hymns, epics and Puranas, the poem retells the story of the birth of Kartikeya, son of Lord Shiva and Parvati, Daughter of the Mountain, who was born destined to destroy the demon Taraka.  Graceful Kalidasa's (&quot;servant of Kali&quot;) blessed tongue (blessed by Kali to speak only words of pure gold) shines through every phrase in this superb translation.  Although not considered a devotional work, the love expressed for Lord Shiva and his consort Uma, Mistress of Tapas, flows from every line of the poem, overflowing with that voluptuous spirituality known only in India.  This work puts to shame translations of better known devotional works such as the &quot;Saundaryalahari&quot; or &quot;Tripurasundari&quot; of Sri Shankara--in English translation, that is.  (One of my life-goal's might become to master Sanskrit in order to translate those works of Sri Shankara properly).  <br />The work also makes me think: we have been so decieved by modern Western secular education that we fail to see how the original inspiration of poetry, literature and music is love for the Divine.  How could we have missed it?  &quot;Art&quot; in the olden times was inspired, in-spired, it breathed of Spirit.  Today, fallen from classical standards whether Greek or Vedic, &quot;art&quot; is a cheap, standardized, ritualized, adolescent devaluation.  How much we have lost.  How much we stand to gain.  If you can find it, buy this book and read and treasure it.	2001-07-04
US	49443858	R1OSY10CQJOSTE	0892540265	735448119	Tarot and Individuation: Correspondences With Cabala and Alchemy	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Line and Verse	This is not a bad book on Tarot and perhaps better than most.  It follows the occult tradition in relying strongly on a Qabbalaistic intrepretation (which is not my forte) of the Major Arcana.  It is also steeped in Jungian psychology (I have personally been rather deeply influenced by Jung's lifework).  But I have never, ever seen Jung quoted line and verse quite so extensively.  The problem I had is that this book seemed dry and never came alive for me.  And what others found scholarly and thorough, I found to be an almost impenetrable Jungian surface obscuring the essence of the images.  The book is also keyed to a deck that I do not use.  (Was it the Ryder-Waite deck?--I don't remember. )  Perhaps there is no substitute for getting to know a deck by working with it on your own terms.  (I prefer the Secret Dakini Oracle, the William Blake Tarot, and the Haindl Tarot.)  I do think it is far better book than the 60's &quot;Jung and Tarot&quot; but I learned more about Tarot from Cynthia Giles first book &quot;Tarot: History, Mystery and Lore,&quot; and it is not nearly so insightful as O'Neill's &quot;Tarot Symbolism.&quot;	2001-06-29
US	49443858	R38KNU78EQ6VX3	0804819327	860094384	Lotus Lake Dragon Pool	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Stories of (austere) spiritual practice	Trevor Leggett is unquestionably one of the best Western practitioners/teachers/scholars of Asian wisdom traditions.  In this book, the author presents stories drawn from India (Lotus Lake) and Japan (Dragon Pond), the scenes of his own spiritual training and scholarly study.  The entries are short, 1-3 pages each, making good spiritual reading before bedtime, and are easily finished in a month or so.  One of my favorites is about a novice who doesn't want to give up his desire for a heavenly apsara (or human female resembling one), and his teacher says, You don't give up the idea that you would desire her; what you do give up is the expectation that such a beauty might appear and want you.  (Get it?--expecting something divinely fleshy to appear, we hold something back from our practice or committments.)  Another story concerns a devotee dutifully polishing his temple: in youth, to impress visitors; in old age, out of sheer devotion to his deity--which then had the effect on visitors that he so longed for in his youth!  I respect this author a lot for his accomplishments and his generosity in bringing the authentic teachings (Zen, Yoga, Gita) to the rest of us in the West.  The stories are not typically about bhakti-like love and adoration of a Sufi or a Krishna devotee (but then there's the first story, about a devotee's unceasing loving acceptance of the local atheist, who worshipped the divine in his own way).  Instead, they tend instead toward austerity, dedication and hard practice, and that austersity can be off-putting at times.  In that sense, this is not his best work (for that, see &quot;Realization of the Supreme Self: The Bhagavad Gita Yogas&quot;).  That said, these stories are well worth pondering in silent moments.	2001-06-07
US	49443858	R11IRAB0F0XPFR	0892817097	762949899	The Strong Eye of Shamanism: A Journey into the Caves of Consciousness	Books	3	13	18	N	N	Shamanic Underground	This is a decent book on the shamanic roots of Paleolithic cave paintings.  But frankly, I've gotten a little tired of seeing so many praises of C.G. Jung's influence on art, folklore, literature, the occult, science, mathematics, mythology--and now shamanism.  And you hear it every other page--Geez!  Enough already!  The book would have lost a quarter of its pages if he'd said it only once.  The focus is also on most famous examples of European cave-art (largely to the exclusion of Australian Aboriginal cave-art, which may more concerned with hunting magic, btw).  A book better than and foundational to this one is Gertrude Rachel Levy's superb &quot;Religious Conceptions of the Stone Age&quot; (which is absolutely priceless if out-of-print).  Ryan's book is well worth reading but, to me, its like an updated appendix to Levy, with some important new information on the Mayans and other meso-American cultures. In fact, the most important thing about this book to me was the reference to Levy (for which I thank another reviewer).	2001-06-01
US	49443858	R8E5K6LUYFPAY	0231105800	854701259	The Classic of the Way and Virtue: A New Translation of the "Tao-te ching" of Laozi as Interpreted by Wang Bi	Books	2	21	31	N	N	Te, that is	This latest translation of the Chinese Taoist Classic is a dry and lifeless specimen, not surprising from a man whose translation of the I Ching was praised for &quot;having no truck with 'timeless wisdom.'&quot; (back cover blurb).  This volume's claim to fame, beyond its slim and attractive appearance, is the complete translation of Wang Bi, a 23 year old commentator from 3rd century CE China.  To determine whether this translation is for you, you should know that Wang Bi had a strong inclination toward political interpretation, a proclivity probably due to the \\"high official status and prestige\\" of his family and their role in government and politics [p. 9], a trend furthered by his great-uncle's \\"Treatise on Keeping One's Person Safe\\"-which begins by making government secure [p. 10].  (Now there's a Chinese virtue, eh?)  Consider also Wang Bi's answer as to why Confucius never spoke of nothingness while Lao Tzu spoke of it incessantly (as the Mother of the Ten Thousand Things etc.):  \\"The Sage [Confucius] embodied nothingness so he also knew that it could not be explained in words....Master Lao...constantly discussed nothingness...for what he said about it always fell short [p. 12].\\"  Now if you believe that someone who could say that actually knew anything firsthand about the Tao, then this book is for you.  And if you are interested in Wang Bi, see Ellen Chen's superb translation/commentary which puts it in perspective.  Otherwise, this is a book on Te-social virtue-where the scholarship is impeccable and the feeling is weak.  And that's the Way it is!	2001-06-01
US	49443858	R156G94CWM2FMQ	1569579075	586345633	The Birds Who Flew Beyond Time	Books	5	18	18	N	N	&quot;Conference of the Birds&quot; beautifully retold	Contrary to the publisher's description, this is not a &quot;children's book&quot; but a sensitive and intelligent (albeit highly condensed) retelling of Attar's Sufi classic, &quot;The Conference of the Birds,&quot; an allegorical tale of the soul's journey to the divine.  A Sufi teacher once said that &quot;children's books&quot; are so appropriate for spiritual remembrance, because they speak to an earlier and more trusting layer of our psyche, bypassing the head and going straight to the heart.  Here we have a great tale of courage in the face of despair, the overcoming of obstacles, the loss of loved ones, and the heart's final illumination with love. Beautifully told, beautifully illustrated.  Oh! happy accident--if you happen upon a copy, this is a lovely place to join the caravan.	2001-04-18
US	49443858	R2IQBIIXAOCB6Q	0156007037	690595801	Night Comes to the Cretaceous: Comets, Craters, Controversy, and the Last Days of the Dinosaurs	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Engaging and scientifically literate	I read this book in conjunction with Alvarez' &quot;T. Rex and the Crater of Doom.&quot;  The writing style in this book is not very polished but the author does a good job reviewing the evidence and detailing the controversies of the K/T comet and its impact on dinosaurs and on contemporary geologists &amp; paleontologists!  It does read rather well as a case history of science (as another reviewer suggested) but it is written very much in the tradition of Karl Popper rather than Thomas Kuhn, with hypotheses explicitly stated, falsifying obsevations articulated, and chapter-end summaries of the consensus interpretation of the evidence.  Still, the overall message is Kuhnian: the overthrow of a paradigm (Lyell's geological uniformitarianism) by an outsider (a Nobel lauraute physicist &amp; his geologist son).  Engaging, scientifically literate, and a real trip to read for the scientific upset (revolution?) that it caused.   Alvarez's &quot;T. Rex&quot; is written much better stylistically and is way more fun to read, so read this one for the science.	2001-03-02
US	49443858	R2M07NG7QU028U	0140193650	328753209	The Theory of Celestial Influence: Man, The Universe and Cosmic Mystery (Arkana)	Books	3	29	47	N	N	&quot;Concepts without percepts are empty...&quot;	The author, a long-time student of occult master Ouspensky, states: \\"despite its scientific appearance, it [this book] has no importance whatsoever as a compendium of scientific facts or even as a new way of presenting these facts...[but] in its being derived from the actual perception of higher consciousness and in its indicating a path by which such consciousness may be again approached [xxi].\\" Thus its value lies not in the sight, but in the seeing.  But that is just the problem.  This book is neither a guide to higher consciousness nor a work on fringe/occult science.  Instead, it presents a decidedly scientific &quot;New View&quot; of the universe, and never mind about either facts or practices.  It's not that this is pseudoscience (science is, after all, a metaphysical research program).  And it does include some tantalizing glimpses of a new worldview. But it is weak in content and failed to generate either productive research or spiritual discipline.  An example: \\"We have reason to believe that our sun does circle about Sirius\\" [15] in a 800,000 year period.  Why?  Precessional differences in the annual rising of Sirius relative to its starry background are consistent with the Sun's movement around a circle centered on Sirius.  So it *could* be true.  And it would certainly be fascinating.  And it might explain &quot;Nemesis: the Death Star&quot; thought to periodically attract comets (like the one the killed off the dinosaurs) toward Earth.  But nobody every bothered to find out.  As it turns out, Ouspensky himself \\"abandoned the system\\" at the end of his life, telling his students that they must start over [xx-xxi].  This recalls St. Thomas Aquinas who, at the end of his life, received a vision of the Divine Mother (described in his \\"Aurora Consurgens\\") and, in a Zen-like fit of satori, rejected his own earlier intellectual Aristotelian system of theology.  Unfortunately, almost nobody knows this; instead the West was stuck with the Thomistic debris of the Catholic Church, rather than elevated by the beatitude of Thomas' final vision of alchemical gnosis and the Divine Mother.  So, if you enjoy extended \\"as above, so below\\" analogies lacking both empirical content and spiritual interiority , this book is for you.  If you had hoped to find a work on spiritual/occult science here (a la Grossinger's \\"The Night Sky,&quot; Gauquelin's \\"Cosmic Clocks,\\" Seymour's \\"Astrology: The Evidence of Science,\\") your disappointment may reach cosmic proportions.e Catholic Church, rather than elevated by the beatitude of Thomas' final vision of alchemical gnosis and the Divine Mother.  So, if you enjoy extended \\"as above, so below\\" analogies lacking both empirical content and spiritual interiority , this book is for you.  If you had hoped to find a work on spiritual/occult science here (a la Grossinger's \\"The Night Sky,&quot; Gauquelin's \\"Cosmic Clocks,\\" Seymour's \\"Astrology: The Evidence of Science,\\") your disappointment may reach cosmic proportions.	2001-02-08
US	49443858	R3TVOXG20F1N4E	0691026238	733524787	Cosmology and Controversy	Books	2	9	18	N	N	Holy Minkowski line element, Batman!	This book is as dense as the primordial singularity!  If you want proof, just turn to page 8, where the author blithely introduces Eintein's gravitational field equations:  R(mn)-1/2 g(mn)R = -kT(mn).  In his words, \\"Mathematically, the quantities with double indices are tensors, and, since the indices refer to the four coordinates of space-time, the tensor equation comprises ten second-order differential equations (R(mn)=R(nm), etc.; n, m=0,1,2,3).\\" [Lest you wondered, the \\"quantity R(mn) denotes the Ricci curvature tensor, and R is a curvature invariant derived from R(mn).\\"] Now, if you already understand that sort of mathematical symbolism and find clarity in the accompanying verbiage, or if you have an professional interest in recent (20th c.) history of scientific cosmology, then this book is for you.  But if you are a reasonably intelligent layperson, with or without advanced degrees in other fields, you may agree that the author's focus on esoteric minutiae and excruciating detail, rather than explanation using ordinary language and analogy--like all good science writers and teachers--rather dashes hopes that \\"this book will not circulate in academic circles only [xi].\\"  It is very interesting to learn even a smidgen about how SS was repeatedly modified ad hoc to \\"save the appearances\\"-yet this is just what we see happening with BB and inflation today.   For example, Hoyle's postulation (p. 366) of separate \\"bubble universes\\"-that are unobservable in principle-strangely presages much of contemporary \\"scientific cosmology\\" involving inflation scenarios.  That is, contrary to the previous reviewer's comments, BB is just a ideologically loaded as SS (a topic for which you might see Jastrow's &quot;God and the Astronomers&quot;).  Overall, I suggest that you excuse yourself from this user-hostile tome with an audience identity problem.  Unfortunately, there seems to be no other work on Big Bang vs. Steady State that follows the arguments and trajectories of these2 theories as they unfolded in time. Ay, here's the rub:  'tis a pity Thomas Kuhn isn't still around to do justice to this topic...	2001-01-17
US	49443858	R1XKTQVHZKE0P6	0914732315	850057310	AGHORA II: Kundalini (Aghora) (Vol II)	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Fantastic	We meet again Vimalananda, the Skotch-guzzling, chain-smoking, horse-racing, corpse-sitting tantrika of \\"Aghora: At The Left Hand of God\\" fame.  Anyone remotely interested in tantra, yoga or Indian philosophy should read this book, if only for the marvelous allegorical interpretations of the Vedas and Vedangas that you may not find elsewhere.  For example, Indra is the Lord of the Senses (Indrayi); and the esoteric Ramayana is a story of Hanuman/Prana's crossing the sea/chakras to the muladhara/Lanka where Sita/Kundalini lies captive, hostage to sense-deluded Ravana.  Some stories are best taken with a pinch of salt--a pinch to make sure you're awake; salt to learn the alchemical lessons: for example, turning the sadhu's sandals to ash by mere touch (holy smoke!) or judging the jnana of a saint by the size of his feces (BS!).  There is some question whether Vimalananda &quot;really&quot; existed or is only &quot;imaginary&quot; but, to me Vimalananda is as real and influential as Thrice-blessed Hermes, Hamlet, or don Juan de Mateo.  Plus, the good doctor teaches  how to raise shakti from Svadishthana to Anahata.	2000-12-11
US	49443858	R2XFQ89RHPHNZI	0911662014	910652299	Fourteen Lessons in Yogi Philosophy and Oriental Occultism	Books	2	37	49	N	N	Beautiful...	...blue silk cover, that is.  But you can't judge a book by its cover.  Having been duped by the good reviews of this book, I submit this review so others can decide for themselves without making the same error.  This work is a 1909 republication of the 14 mail-order lessons making up the &quot;Correspondence Class Course&quot; of 1904, written by one Yogi Ramacharaka and published by the Yogi Publication Society, the Masonic Temple, Chicago IL.  If you would bet that this combination spells absolutely nothing related to Indian yoga, you'd be absolutely right.  The lessons are in a Theosophical vein, treating all manner of occult interest-telepathy, psychic healing, the aura, astral body, channelling-matters refered to in yoga as the siddhis.  But there is nothing here about any yoga known from India, neither Patanjali nor hatha nor kundalini nor tantra nor bhakti nor raja, no yama niyama asana pranayama meditation nor devotional practices.  The YPS still exists, but my guess is that Yogi Ramacharaka never did.  These writings are characterized by late nineteenth/early twentieth century popular misunderstandings of &quot;Esoteric Eastern Wisdom&quot;--a Masonic idea of making a buch?  There are two quotes of value in this work, after which you can go away without bothering with the rest.  First is the honest auto-commentary: &quot;on looking over our work it seems that we have said so little-have left unsaid so much-and yet we have done the best we could&quot;  (p. 276).  Second is the fine quote, from &quot;a poetical work in Oriental style [Light on the Path] channeled as an above-ordinary intelligence&quot; [p. 276] found in the dedication: &quot;Know that those who have passed through the silence, and felt its peace, and retained its strength, they long that you shall pass through it also.&quot; Now that is very good.  So, anyone looking for 19th century occult metaphysical &quot;New Thought&quot; can find my copy donated to the Mt. Airy library.  For anyone interested in a true perspective on the real beauty and life-affirming value of Indian yoga, I recommend T.K.V. Desikachar's &quot;Health, Healing and Beyond&quot; and A.G. Mohan's &quot;Yoga for Body, Breath and Mind.&quot;	2000-12-07
US	49443858	R195WGZQBLLQO1	0835604462	890973704	The Glorious Presence; The Vedanta Philosophy Including Shankara's Ode to the South-Facing Form. (Quest Books)	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Dusty 50's Devotional Yoga	This book is a long commentary and translation of Sri Shankaracharya's &quot;Ode to Dakshinamurthi&quot;, the &quot;South-facing form&quot; of Lord Shiva Mahadeva.  Shankara is, of course, the great Vedantin and yogin of early medieval India, an avatar of Lord Shiva and probably India's greatest philosopher/rsi.  I am happy to know that westerners were interested in Shankara's devotional yoga and Vedanta teachings (rather than turning him into a dry Oxford-type &quot;philosopher&quot;)--and all this back in the '50's and before!  Ernest Wood was a prolific writer in the post-Theosophical &quot;new thought&quot; vein, perhaps not unlike Paul Brunton, having travelled through India and written books on yoga etc.  However, the value of this book is compromised by its tedious and long-winded writing style, a dusty 1950's self-help tone that is always beating around the bush and never getting to the point, and a clumsy if not inaccurate translation, with little useful or informative commentary.  Far better is Chinmayananda's superb &quot;Hymn to Dakshinamurti,&quot; with its beautiful translation and excellent, informed commentary.  (Unfortunately, the Chinmayananda translation is published by an obscure Indian press.  You will need to look for it in used bookstores like Powell's or your local surrogate, or the Chinmayananda Mission appears to still sell it under the title &quot;Dakshinamurthy Stotram&quot;).  But you need not spend much time on this old thing.	2000-12-05
US	49443858	R16JHB86UHMZXR	0195073703	849489885	The Secret Melody: And Man Created the Universe	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Wonderful Cosmology	The author, T.X. Thuan--with the mind of a scientist and the heart of a poet--has been called the 'Carl Sagan of France&quot; for his lucid science writing.  No wonder this book is such a beautiful overview of contemporary cosmology!  Unmarred by the weak writing style, materialist reductionism, or scientific arrogance that plagues other, more popular authors (Gribbin, Davies, Smolin), this book presents an eye-opening tour of contemporary scientific cosmology that is a real pleasure to read.  This popular work is written with clarity, charm and erudition, along the lines Timothy Ferris' works.  He suggests there is an underlying divinity--the &quot;Melody&quot; of the title--not a wind-up deity but instead an emergent wholeness.  Materialists will read every line in a book and, not finding the plot any where, conclude that there is none.  But its only a secret because you have to listen.  This is a marvelous book and I loved reading it.  And afterwards, you'll look forward to his new book, too!	2000-09-22
US	49443858	R17QIMY8LWB65P	087477814X	962667598	The Art of Sexual Magic	Books	3	4	44	N	N	Osho meets Aliester Crowley	For 60's/70's hangovers and neopseudotantra orgasmacists ISO the Big O,  this guide to good sex says it all.	2000-09-08
US	49443858	R1UCIUE0ZWBRAV	0226894991	774418724	The Alchemical Body: Siddha Traditions in Medieval India	Books	4	54	59	N	N	Siddha Sutra	Like a master weaver, D.G. White threads his way through an enormous amount of literature on alchemy, hatha yoga and tantra in medieval India.   Written with wit, erudition, and non-sectarian distance from (if evident  sympathy for) his subject, this work is indispensible for anyone interested  in hatha yoga, alchemy, ayurveda or Tantra.  Be aware that this is a  scholarly work, not a &quot;how-to&quot; users guide-but if only other  scholars wrote with such wit and passion!  Anyone who still believes that  Tantra is about &quot;sacred sexuality&quot; with a loving partner will be  cured by reading about the ritual consumption of semen and menstrual blood  in historical Tantric cults, including Abhinavagupta's Trika (pp. 137-139).   As the siddhi from this bitter rasayana, one will come to recognize the  idealized beautiful bodies adorning the covers of contemporary yoga  journals, as descendants of the Siddha alchemical quest for bodily  immortality:  Hatha yoga is tantric alchemy.  The writing can be dense at  points-especially the occasionaly tedious chapter on &quot;Tantic and  Siddha Alchemical Literature&quot;.  Otherwise, it's a fascinating read,  covering everything from the 9 historical Naths to cosmological homologies  between geography, bandhas asanas and other aspects of the subtle body in  hatha yoga, and various alchemical and Ayurvedic substances and practices.   And don't be put off by the size of the book: its 596 pages include fully  178 pages of scholarly notes and another 76 pages of references and index,  leaving a mere 352 pages of incredibly fascinating reading.  One can only  hope that the author, perhaps when older and less bound by scholarly  demands-a sannyasin?-might expand upon his fascinating personal experiences  seeking alchemists in contemporary Nepal.  May his researchs long  continue...!   [Jjely@Bigfoot.com]	2000-09-01
US	49443858	R257XCU3H2GNKM	0874774896	49347311	Night Sky	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Astral ethno-astronomy	Best known as the author of the excellent survey of alternative and tribal medicines, *Planet Medicine*, the author here seeks healing from the stars.  Why stars?--&quot;The modern materialist universe has no place for us and  we would be fools to try to survive in it...but unless we are active in  making a new universe [ie, cosmology], it will leave us...ravaged.  We must  enter the violence and the emptiness...and transform them into something  livable [xvi].&quot;  Found on sale bins everywhere, this grossly  underrated book covers the anthropology of the men who invented modern  astronomy &amp; cosmology, comparing well with Timmothy Ferris' *Coming of  Age in the Milky Way*.  He then uncovers the astral/occult sky, sky myths  from many times and places, and the role of the night sky in the human  imagination, from pop stars and sci fi to UFOs and post-modern nihilism a  la Big Bang.  There's really nothing else like it, a great impressionistic  tour and re-creation of the cosmos that we, as humans, still seek to live  in, in wonder.  Recommended for students of cosmology, mythology,  anthropology or anyone else who marvels at the night sky above--and  within--and who seeks a human place in a scientifically dead universe.	2000-08-16
US	49443858	RIDO79L6XHXAQ	0874774896	49347311	Night Sky	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Astral ethno-astronomy	Best known as the author of the excellent survey of alternative and tribal medicines, *Planet Medicine*, the author here seeks healing from the stars.   Why stars?--&quot;The modern materialist universe has no place for us and  we would be fools to try to survive in it...but unless we are active in  making a new universe [ie, cosmology], it will leave us...ravaged.  We must  enter the violence and the emptiness...and transform them into something  livable [xvi].&quot;  Found on sale bins everywhere, this grossly  underrated book covers the anthropology of the men who invented modern  astronomy &amp; cosmology, comparing well with Timmothy Ferris' *Coming of  Age in the Milky Way*.  He then uncovers the astral/occult sky, sky myths  from many times and places, and the role of the night sky in the human  imagination, from pop stars and sci fi to UFOs and post-modern nihilism a  la Big Bang.  There's really nothing else like it, a great impressionistic  tour and re-creation of the cosmos that we, as humans, still seek to live  in, in wonder.  Recommended for students of cosmology, mythology,  anthropology or anyone else who marvels at the night sky above--and  within--and who seeks a human place in a scientifically dead universe.	2000-08-16
US	49443858	R19RMGMD2CJNO7	8120802683	159465095	Dreams, Illusions and Other Realities	Books	3	17	29	N	N	The Cunning of Reason/Happily Ever After?	This text aims to retell and analyze Sanskrit tales of dream and illusion, primarily from the YogaVasishtha, a work described by scholar and yogi H.P. Shastri as the inner story of the Ramayana.  How well it succeeds in this  task depends upon one's sympathy with mythological thinking.  The stories  concern kings and yogis dreaming their way into alternate realities; the  questions raised concern how such alternate realities relate to our  day-to-day variety.  Implicitly contrasted is Prof. Doniger, noted Sanskrit  scholar, versus young Wendy, learning to read Alice in Wonderland (297).   The overall theme is illustrated by Jung's dream of a yogi meditating in a  church. Deeply unsettled, Jung realized that the yogi was more real than  himself and, the moment the yogi awoke from meditation, he (Jung) would  disappear.  The Western texts used as points of entry into presumably more  puzzling Eastern texts (5) lead into constant digressions:  intellectuallized issues of perception and illusion, paradoxes of  self-reference.  Even the digressions digress: Freudian theory is built up  (Ch. 1) then demolished by Popper's philosophy (Ch. 4).  But what can Freud  or Popper really teach us about mythology?  In case you wonder about the YV  itself, consider this:  &quot;the indwelling consciousness?has no object of  experience either outside or inside [but, through a movement of thought],  desires to experience itself as an object?[and does so] by its own  cleverness&quot; [Vasistha's Yoga, Venkatesananda, trans., 317].  By  curtailing desire, the wise unwind this web of maya; others suffer  self-desired delusion.  The tales are told well?no mean feat given that the  originals are scattered like gems in the world's second biggest book.  But  gone is the sheer enchantment found in, say, Heinrich Zimmer's work.  Gone  too is the living context, found in T. Leggett's works.  Herein lies  another contrast: the YV is a text, whose dead letters are safely dissected  but not takenseriously.  That Jung merely &quot;claimed [sic] to have  dreamt&quot; his yogi dream [245] belies the whole premise:  The stories  may be real (297), but real people don't do that--only texts.  What could  have been a marvelous book becomes merely interesting, a brain-teaser from  a Sunday paper.  Consider myth:  Psyche fell in love with Cupid, who  forbade her to look upon him by day.  Why? What could be wrong?   Frightened, with protective knife in hand, she gazed finally upon his  beauty by night.  But her candle dripped hot wax on him and, wounded, he  fled away.  Moral?  The light of Reason can destroy what is Beautiful.  And  though a child's mind is full of Wonder, the grown-up brain gives up  childish ways.  The End.	2000-07-21
US	49443858	R233MNUZKA7KNK	0893817317	332708472	Health, Healing, And Beyond: Yoga And The Living Tradition Of Krishnamacharya	Books	4	42	43	N	N	A pleasure to read, a joy to hear	Unlike &quot;Autobiography of a Yogi,&quot; this work is not about magic but about the living tradition of yoga, and of a yogi skilled in all six Ways of Viewing, a wanderer, who journeyed for years on end learning the  Vedic teachings, finally settling in south India to live yoga and raise a  family. Not quite a biography, this book is a mixture of reminiscences,  teachings and photographs of the author's father, Sri Krishnamacharya. One  of my favorite stories describes Krishnamacharya's journey to a temple  known long ago for its learned teachers. When he arrived by foot,  exhausted, the gateskeeper suggested he first nap outside the grounds.  Later, inside, he met a great teacher &quot;seated beneath a banyan tree  granting knowledge to all his disciples&quot; and promptly memorized all  his words upon recitation---only to awaken outside to the self-same  gateskeeper, who slyly asked if he had found what he was looking for. The  lost teachings had been transmitted in a dream. There is much more than  this, of course, including many practical aspects and insights on all 8  limbs of classical yoga. There are two related shortcomings in this  otherwise superb book. First, look at the fine &quot;Essence of Yoga&quot;  by Desikachar's student, B. Bouanchaud. The frontispiece is a drawing by  Krishnamacharya depicting Patanjali surrounded by his four students. These  students represent the four books of the Yoga Sutras, the same teachings  having been presented differently and with different emphases for each  student. This skill-in-means is fundamental to Krishnamacharya's whole  approach to yoga. While three of his students (B.K.S. Iyengar, Indra Devi,  T.K.V. Desikachar) are mentioned here, I was surprised to read all 211  pages and find that A.G. Mohan, Krishnamacharya's fourth student for 18  years, was not mentioned once. (Lest there be any doubt, see  Krishnamacharya's warm dedication to Mohan's fine book, &quot;Yoga for  Body, Breath and Mind.&quot;) This oversight taints a full appreciation of  Krishnamacharya's true living tradition. Also, I believe there is something  more to yoga and healing than the &quot;We care&quot; attitude emphasisized  later in the book, but that emphasis may be related to the author's caring,  sociable nature. That said, this is a marvelous book about an extraordinary  man, well-written by an accomplished yogi who knew him well. There is  something poignant in the author's tale of his own expedition to the  Himalayas, searching for the cave where his father's guru lived and taught,  the plight of a modern man who, like most of us, cannot wholly comprehend  Krishnamacharya's accomplishments in the Vedic tradition. There are lessons  here for us all. Don't miss it for the world.sight taints a full appreciation of  Krishnamacharya's true living tradition. Also, I believe there is something  more to yoga and healing than the &quot;We care&quot; attitude emphasisized  later in the book, but that emphasis may be related to the author's caring,  sociable nature. That said, this is a marvelous book about an extraordinary  man, well-written by an accomplished yogi who knew him well. There is  something poignant in the author's tale of his own expedition to the  Himalayas, searching for the cave where his father's guru lived and taught,  the plight of a modern man who, like most of us, cannot wholly comprehend  Krishnamacharya's accomplishments in the Vedic tradition. There are lessons  here for us all. Don't miss it for the world.	2000-06-05
