US	49462192	R1DR4BJQHNI2X9	0385337116	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Better than DaVinci Code	Rule of Four is the same type of book as The DaVinci Code, but much more focused and less gratuitously written. <br /> <br />The story starts with four Princeton students about to graduate: Tom, our hero, has grown a little distant with his good friend Paul, who has immersed himself in an enigmatic Renaissance-era document, the Hypnerotomachia. As Paul's graduate thesis is proving, the Hypnerotomachia is an intricate, fully encoded set of instructions, leading anyone with the tenacity to unravel its secrets to a secret that has lain undisturbed for centuries. <br /> <br />There are two elements to the story: the search through the intricacies of the document, and the coming of age of the four college friends. The intrigue of a mysterious agent who is trying to steal the secret from Paul lends the book urgency and action. <br /> <br />I got more satisfaction from this book due to the author's plotcraft, language, believable characters with depth, and unusual central plot. It's a quick read, and perfect for history buffs or intrigue junkies, minus the two-dimensional characterization of DaVinci Code. As a novel, it may be a little at cross-purposes with itself - is it a buddy book, or an adventure intrigue? - but it's a good read, and better than most of the emerging history/intrigue genre. <br /> <br />If you liked Ex Libris, The Coffee Merchant, Neal Stephenson's Baroque Cycle, or even the DaVinci Code, you won't be disappointed with Rule of Four.	2004-09-28
US	49462192	R1L4ATCVSJ6UAG	0380977427	727370009	Quicksilver (The Baroque Cycle, Vol. 1)	Books	2	3	5	N	N	Mixed bag for Stephenson	It's an ambitious book and idea, but did it need to be this long?<br />Neal Stephenson has crafted a unique style out of a love of words and description. Quicksilver is the opening third of what promises to be a showdown between emerging science and technology, and the superstitions of more entrenched belief.<br />The book is a history lesson, a soap opera a comedy of manners, and cryptography lesson rolled into one. Daniel Waterhouse, a reclusive expatriot natural philosopher is tracked down by mysterious alchemist Enoch the Red. Enoch enlists Waterhouse's sense of obligation to his discipline to send him back to England, where a knotty diplomatic problem awaits him.<br />Nearly all of the first half makes very exciting reading - reading where you are actively engaged and not just plowing through some throwaway dialog to get to the end of the chapter. But after the lengthy digression to introduce our heroine, Eliza - which is possibly the most consistently entertaining portion of the book - the exploits of Daniel Waterhouse and his various misadventures with English kings pale by comparison.<br />The problem comes when it's time to pick up our narrative thread from the first portion of the book: &quot;Wait, I thought he was on a boat back to England, or has he landed yet?&quot; Stephenson's intercut style requires a chart to recall exactly where you are in the story, only to find that the story you started isn't even begun at the end of this book. I know there are two more books, but c'mon ... throw me a bone.<br />It's Stephenson's great capacity with words that kept me going through this weighty book - he's truly a very good writer. By the end of Quicksilver, however, I felt completely exhausted and anxious to return to my pre-Quicksilver life. Cryptonomicon is a much better example of Stephenson's style serving the plot ideally.	2004-07-13
US	49462192	R3NUXJ763A57AD	0743423763	687102091	Bill the Galactic Hero (Sf Stainless Steel Rat Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Terry Pratchett fans - this is the beginning	I went to a Terry Pratchett book signing, and during the Q &amp; A he mentioned that reading Bill The Galactic Hero forever altered the way he looked at fiction. I got a used copy and had high hopes for the laughs to come.<br />Boy, did they! Harry Harrison turns so many outworn cliches of science fiction and rocket pulp on their ear you'll get a crick in your neck. I laughed regularly through the whole thing, with some really good ones in the middle.<br />BTGH is the story of a backwoods farmboy who is shanghaied into military service because he looks just the type - big and strong, but dumber than a plant. During his training period, however, we find that our hero is quicker to notice things that we expected, and learns valuable lessons that are easily applicable to life, especially if you have a job you hate. To wit:<br />1) Shut up.<BR>2) When the going gets tough, it'll get worse.<BR>3) Never, ever, ever volunteer.<BR>4) and Shut up.<br />Bill is slung through various attempts on his life in the course of military service, is awarded hero status, then promptly criminalized for missing his transport (because he gets lost, and there's a map, it's a long story) and gets wrapped up in a secret organization trying to take over the government, but he's working for the government as an informant, and all he really wants to do is get back to being a Fertilizer technician.<br />And I didn't even mention the war with the Chingers.<br />This book is a very quick read, and very entertaining, and required reading for any Terry Pratchett fan. I gave it four stars, beacuse it's the first in a series, and I really dislike having to read books in order, especially if there's more than two. But if you like your fiction with a good satiric twist, and non-stop, panic-addled action, find a used copy like I did, and give Bill the Galactic Hero a try.	2004-04-04
US	49462192	R3DZP3OSM6S3QR	006001315X	224677970	Monstrous Regiment: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Really a unique turn for Pratchett	If you're a diehard Pratchett fan - I've got some bad news for you: Monstrous Regiment isn't about witches, Rincewind, wizards, Death, or even the Watch (although they play a role.) It's a standalone book like Equal Rites, Soul Music, Pyramids, or Small Gods. So, people - join a support group, wear some armor on the weekends, something ... but prepare yourself for something a little different from a truly creative author.<br />Monstrous Regiment takes place on the outer fringe of the Discworld stories - in Borogravia, a country sandwiched by a score \\"more civilized\\" nations which they've managed to aggravate into a constant state of war that has left their land uncultivated, and their popluation dwindling. With all the men missing or killed in the neverending state of warfare, who's the right man for the job? That's right - a woman.<br />Polly Perks has a lot on her mind: her dimwitted, yet gentle brother is missing in action; her father's inn is being overrun by hooligans and old soldiers; and being a woman, she's got a lifetime of swabbing out the privies to look forward to since the nationalized diety has proclaimed every state of existence (except baldness) an Abomination for women. So with a quick haircut, a comic walk and a pair of socks, she enlists in the Borogravian army to at least find her brother.<br />I enjoyed this book a great deal more than some of the more recent books, and in a much different way than some of the earlier books. Pratchett has stripped his style of many of the cheaper puns and sight gags, to reveal a more subversive type of humor - humor based in satire that lacks the punch of a timely toilet joke, but that is more satisfying to me as a reader. Pratchett also prods around the edges of the Disc, and does a pretty adequate job of finding new ways to explore the world he's created. And his thematic conclusions are never easy: there were at least two occasions in Monstrous Regiment where I thought: \\"Well, that should do it - Polly will be fine now,\\" - Pratchett always seems to have one more twist up his sleeve.<br />Monstrous Regiment presents a quandry, though: a new reader will be muddled, misled, and underinformed about the Discworld; the plot and theme more than compensate for it, however. I feel you should read The Fifth Elephant, Men At Arms, or Feet of Clay first, then you have to read The Truth, and then this one to fully appreciate the presence and role of Vimes, Angua, William de Worde, and Carrot (who is not referred to by name ???!!) - their parts of the story, while critical, are really sketchy and assume a great deal of prior knowledge. But there is plenty of action, invention, and great dialog to keep even a casual fan interested. Put down that Robert Jordan, fanboy!<br />Will Polly find her brother? Will she be able to keep her secret? Why are there never any socks in the regiment's laundry? These are all questions worth answering by reading Monstrous Regiment. New readers will enjoy Monstrous Regiment after a little catch up - fans will enjoy it more by relaxing their tightening expectations on one of fiction's most active and creative satirists.	2003-11-12
US	49462192	RSX88PSP071L4	0060013117	591200758	Night Watch: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Great Return of the Watch	With each Discworld novel, Terry Pratchett has expanded his already vibrant environment bit by bit, but altered his writing approach and plotcraft quite a bit. Night Watch, in that light, is the return to a comfortable set of established characters, set in a new, dramatic light.<br />Sam Vimes is hot on the trail of a dangerous psychopath who has just killed an off-duty Watchman. During the ensuing chase, he's propelled back in time to the early days of the Night Watch, where the psychopath is finding a perfect social outlet for his er, interests: as a member of Lord Winder's sadistic Particulars. Vimes has to tread pretty lightly between not disutrbing the natural course of events - which are leading to his eventual rise to Dukedom and - ulp!- fatherhood, and fighting the psychopath Carcer with every tool at his disposal: a corrupt and disorganized Watch; much younger and slovenly versions of Fred Colon and Nobby, and one, very green and naive ... Sam Vimes.<br />Night Watch's plot is a clear extension of Thief of Time, with the presence of the Temporal Monks, and The Sweeper, with some real great action and interplay between the Vimes of the Future and the Inhabitants of the Past. Unlike Thief of Time, howvever, the plot is a little clearer, and the urgency of the situation is much less contrived. And who hasn't indulged themselves in the fantasy of returning to their past with all the benefits of decades of hindsight? While the plot is a little reminiscent of Men at Arms, and the movie Killing Time - it could be observed that one doesn't really expect a completely original starting point with Terry Pratchett: it's what he does with all those hackneyed setups and stock fantasy scenarios that keeps us coming back again and again.<br />Night Watch is a terrific return to Discworld: familiar characters that you like; plenty of good laughs at The Assassin's Guild, Sam's grudging rise to greatness, and Nobby and Fred; and an inventive and interesting plot. I feel, however, that even with all its backstory and description of the Good Ol' Bad Ol' Days in Ankh-Morpork, it reads better after you've read Men At Arms, The Fifth Elephant or Feet of Clay. But Pratchett continues to improve with each book, so hurry up and read those, then read Night Watch.	2002-11-15
US	49462192	R2DMJALVNCK2FD	044021680X	718061775	Gai-Jin (Asian Saga)	Books	2	6	7	N	N	Not up to Clavell's own standard	Having read and truly enjoyed Shogun and Taipan (as well as King Rat and even Noble House) I welcomed the opportunity to enter Clavell's well-researched and fascinating world of intrigue and inter-culture strategy set in 19th century Japan.<br />Fans of Clavell's will undoubtably be a little forgiving, but there's so much to be apologetic for the volume would strain anyone: 1200 pages in total with very small print, a very dense plot, characterization that approaches engagement but leaves you just short of knowing where your loyalties lie. Short of telling you the plot, it's enough to call Gai-Jin unsatisfying ... to say the least.<br />Malcolm Struan is the heir apparent to Struan's Trading, long a dominating force in Hong Kong, and now expanding into the insular world of Japan. At the same time, forces of renegade samurai called shishi are maneuvering to return power to the Emperor from the strangehold maintained by the military dictator - the Shogun. To further their cause, the shishi carry out a terrorist attack against Gai-Jin, (loosely - foreign devil, I believe) and Malcom is injured pretty greiviously. Arriving at the same time is a beautiful young social climber who has been shipped to Yokohama to seduce and marry young Malcom in order to restore her gambler father to his formerly wealthy state.<br />The rest is vintage Clavell: Lots of stuff happens, loyalties are earned, changed, betrayed; and there's plenty of sex, murder, intrigue, and gamesmanship set against the clash of the industrial West meeting the traditional and reclusive East, who is by turns repulsed and fascinated by the technology and opportunity of a seemingly less \\"civilized\\" people.<br />It's a pretty good start, but rather than the well-oiled Chinese puzzle of a plot of Shogun or Tai-Pan, Gai Jin has all the appeal of a well-oiled deli tray. Plot threads sit next to one another, only interact on a fairly superficial level; characters rub against one another but never quite enough to change each other's individual destiny or direction. Tess Struan, the matriarch of the Struan clan, and Malcolm's dominant motivating force, and one of the most interesting characters of the lot, never appears. We only read her letters and are treated to opinions of what she might do or think. And since you know that Malcolm is a headstrong young lad in the mold of his grandfather, well, the outcome is inevitable.<br />I don't know whether the passage of time affected me as a reader, or Clavell as a writer, but the use of language in Gai-Jin sinks to a pretty low level. One glaring example is -  amongst a regular sprinkling of both Chinese and Japanese words, twice Clavell uses the word \\"siesta\\" to describe a short nap, which struck me as incredibly lazy and completely out of place. How hard would it have been to put nap into Mandarin, Japanese, or even French? <br />If you're a Clavell fan, you might as well read Gai-Jin to complete your journey through his body of work, but casual readers will be bemused, befuddled and bewildered by this less than noble finish to an otherwise pretty solid series.	2002-06-29
US	49462192	RCBHFUJU3C9EF	0375758623	877647320	The Piano Shop on the Left Bank: Discovering a Forgotten Passion in a Paris Atelier	Books	4	3	3	N	N	What a great read - light, but very satisfying	Following my rule of picking up books with interesting-looking covers, I got [pulled] into Thad Carhart's Piano Shop on the Left Bank within minutes.<br />It's a lovingly detailed memoir and travelogue of one man's rediscovery of a love for all things piano. Set in the picturesque and romantic Left Bank, the reader is soon engulfed in images of walking down cobbled streets, getting coffee and fresh bread, and hearing music sung and played from every window. This book fills up your senses nearly to the point of overload, and leaves you hungry for more.<br />The book centers on Carhart's introduction and friendship with a piano restorer named Luc who slowly exposes and educates Carhart about what makes a certain piano \\"live\\" and why even expensive pianos can be missing their soul. On the way, Carhart manages to navigate some of the more tricky aspects of the insular Parisian \\"vie de quartier\\" and gets a firsthand experience with the quirky, private French nature.<br />There is enough enlightening musical material and information about pianos and their construction to give you something to take away with you as the end comes all too soon, and you begin to look at that largish space in the corner of the living room...	2002-05-29
US	49462192	R20U22GCWBOC99	0738203491	205572118	The Pleasure of Finding Things Out: The Best Short Works of Richard P. Feynman	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Interesting thoughts and opinions - just for fans	This collection of \\"short works\\" a decent collection, and will surely appeal to those who enjoyed \\"Genius\\" and \\"Surely You Must Be Joking...\\" The pieces included run quite a gamut of subjects - the function of science, the necessity of doubt in scentific method, religion vs. science, teaching and learning, and many others. All of them are brought to life by Feynman's conversational style and facility with description and coherent threads of thought.<br />As much as I was hungry to hear more of Feynman's thought process, I was kind of disappointed by this book. There are many facts and revelations in the text of many of these short works, but nearly all of them have a sketchy, half-finished quality to them. From the reverent forward by Freeman Dyson to the equally gushy introduction by the author, I got rather the impression that this book is some sort of campaign for Feynman's sainthood. Feynman is very articulate, and expresses well-defined opinions on a number of subjects, supported by an illustrious history in his field and numerous facts. This book makes better cocktail conversation than a collection of works from an already distiguished thinker.<br />Feynman's common sense approach, and bottom line reasoning is very appealing and, short of the Challenger testimony piece (the most technical of the addresses included) easy for the average reader to understand and enjoy. Many of Feynman's opinions may affect your own thinking on these subjects - not really a bad thing at all. The Pleasure of Finding Things Out isn't up to the standard of the other two, however, and that was a little dissatisfying to me.	2002-02-22
US	49462192	R2AQN3Z3A73AQ4	9993776432	462255269	Bill, the Galactic Hero	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Terry Pratchett fans - this is where he got it	I went to a Terry Pratchett book signing, and during the Q &amp; A he mentioned that reading Bill The Galactic Hero forever altered the way he looked at fiction. I got a used copy and had high hopes for the laughs to come.<br />Boy, did they! Harry Harrison turns so many outworn cliches of science fiction and rocket pulp on their ear you'll get a crick in your neck. I laughed regularly through the whole thing, with some really good ones in the middle.<br />BTGH is the story of a backwoods farmboy who is shanghaied into military service because he looks just the type - big and strong, but dumber than a plant. During his training period, however, we find that our hero is quicker to notice things that we expected, and learns valuable lessons that are easily applicable to life, especially if you have a job you hate. To wit:<br />1) Shut up.<BR>2) When the going gets tough, it'll get worse.<BR>3) Never, ever, ever volunteer.<BR>4) and Shut up.<br />Bill is slung through various attempts on his life in the course of military service, is awarded hero status, then promptly criminalized for missing his transport (because he gets lost, and there's a map, it's a long story) and gets wrapped up in a secret organization trying to take over the government, but he's working for the government as an informant, and all he really wants to do is get back to being a Fertilizer technician.<br />And I didn't even mention the war with the Chingers.<br />This book is a very quick read, and very entertaining, and required reading for any Terry Pratchett fan. I gave it four stars, beacuse it's the first in a series, and I really dislike having to read books in order, especially if there's more than two. But if you like your fiction with a good satiric twist, and non-stop, panic-addled action, find a used copy like I did, and give Bill the Galactic Hero a try.	2002-02-01
US	49462192	R2J8USQOYYTGAF	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Transports you a little, and plops you back down	If you'd like something light to read to provoke a little thought about paths not taken and goals not pursued, why not try The Alchemist as an easy first step toward evaluating your own life?<br />Santiago is a shepherd living a fairly ordered existence, yet intrigued by a recurring dream of a child playing with his sheep, who then transports him to the Pyramids, and shows him a spot where a great treasure is hidden. He seeks out a dream-interpreter, who agrees to tell him the meaning of the dream for one-tenth of the treasure. Santiago then sets out on a journey toward the treasure.<br />The journey is long, and involves many hard decisions between action and safety, and whether to trust his instincts or to do the \\"responsible\\" thing. He makes mistakes, gets sidetracked a little, and finds more than he bargained for on his journey, which makes a great fable about persistence and seeing priorities.<br />Okay, it's a fable - you have to be pretty forgiving to glean any hard tips about pursuing dreams from a story about a shepherd. Anthony Robbins it's not, but it's pretty well written, and uplifting - I don't know that a book that you can finish in one afternoon can be held to that strict a standard. This book can be a kind of relief if you have some soul -searching to do about what you're doing with your life. In a time and economy where every iota of common sense dictates no unnecessary risks, this simple fable can help to reframe much of the fear and uncertainty we all have as we see some of our dreams retract from us due to neglect or every day life.<br />This type of book won't offer the same type of guidance as the bullet-pointed self helpers littering the Bestseller rack, yet reading books like The Alchemist can give you the inspiration and the emotional energy to keep on keepin on - which is nothing to sneeze at. If you read Illusions, Jonathan Livingston Seagull, or even One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, you'll find something in The Alchemist.	2002-01-04
US	49462192	R339QKIMKQR9W4	0786867345	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A terrific historical thriller	Within minutes of picking up Carter Beats the Devil I was wrapped up in a world of misdirection and shadowy characters that is reminiscent of black and white adventure movies and Arthur Conan Doyle.<br />Charles Carter is a tremendously accomplished illusionist in an era where emerging technology is slowly eroding the wonder he can elicit from an audience. A snappy comeback to a ridiculous question by a tabloid journalist forces Carter to go into hiding, and plunges him into an elaborate adventure involving the recent death of President Warren G. Harding. He is chased by Secret Service agents and a murderous competitor to the core of a conspiracy to keep a dreadful secret from the American public.<br />The plot is twisty and involved without becoming confusing or gratutitous; Gold's use of language and craft with dialog is excellent and snappy, no small feat for a first-time novelist on a historical thriller. The events that unfold for Carter, both in his past and present, really get the pulse racing, and you'll find yourself anxiously turning page after page.<br />I HIGHLY RECOMMEND THIS BOOK as simply well-crafted and great entertainment.	2001-11-18
US	49462192	R1QYZD2JQJTT3Z	0312280556	927137883	The Parrot's Theorem: A Novel	Books	3	14	15	N	N	A very intriguing book	I was immediately drawn in by the first few lines of The Parrot's Theorem, where Max, a deaf boy living in Paris comes to the aid of a parrot being beaten by two men. From there, I was lead into a journey where Max, his twin siblings, and his friend Mr. Ruche wade through nearly the entire history of mathematics to unravel the circumstances behind the suspiscious demise of Mr. Ruche's friend, Elgar Grosovure.<br />Max brings home the wounded, and now silent, parrot just as Mr. Ruche has received a cryptic letter from his old friend in Brazil. Grosovure writes that he will be sending Mr. Ruche - an antique bookseller - his entire reference library of mathematical texts and histories because Mr. Ruche will care for them, or at least sell them to &quot;the right kiind of person.&quot; Yet, as the letter goes on, it emerges that Grosovure is sending the library because he is expecting to be killed by some people who would like to extract information from him, regarding a proof of a mathematical theorem that Grosovure has been working on in private, hidden away in the rainforest.<br />At this point, the library arrives, and the unraveling of the mystery begins. As the story progress, the various threads begin to intermingle and converge: of Mr. Ruche's past friendship with Grosovure, their differences and love for philosophy and mathematics; a single mother with adopted children, and their discovery of that fact; a rare breed of talking parrot who speaks in mysterious portions of theorems and history - all these weave together in a truly original way to create a story that is both suspenseful and truly enlightening.<br />Or tries to, anyway. After the first third of the book, I began to tire of Guedj's poor and idealized delineation of Jon and Lea - the twins, who do most of the expository dialog - as reluctant and nascent geniuses, capable of absorbing mathematical proofs within minutes, and contiually burning the midnight oil to supply their own, more elegant versionsof these proofs. Max who initially drew me into the book, is capable of speech (owing to the fact that his deafness was slow onset) which calls into question the reason for the device at all. Further observations regarding Guedj's writing are a variation on this theme: poor characterization, and dialog which is simply a slave to the intellectual agenda of the book.<br />Yet, it is this agenda that kept me reading The Parrot's Theorem all the way to the end: Guedj not only has a profound respect for the history and evolution of mathematics, but a terrific sense of the human drama and poetry involved in thousands of years of human intellectual development. The historical facts are interesting, the biographical material is fascinating - the proofs of the theorems are well outlined and comprehensible even to a straight C student who flunked Calculus.<br />The cover of The Parrot's Theorem makes many promises about this being a renaissance-style novel, a &quot;European&quot; novel, and so on, but this is not a book suited for average kids or even many adults. Yet, simply on the material covered, it is much more palatable that sitting down with Euclid's Elements or Newton's works. If you are interested in the history of mathematics, and are patient with a writer who hasn't yet mastered believable plot and dialog, you may really enjoy The Parrot's Theorem, a truly unique book.	2001-09-14
US	49462192	R1PKQ7S8YWT3QI	0380973650	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Clive Barker and Stephen King fans - check this out!	There are only a handful of authors that consistently push the boundary of &quot;imaginative&quot; fiction, that every time I hear of the emergence of a &quot;truly new talent&quot; I'm really skeptical. Neil Gaiman, however, has completely won me over, and American Gods was a real eye opener in many ways.<br />It's the story of a completely rootless, and emotionally impoverished &quot;regular guy,&quot; freshly paroled from prison only to discover that the life he's longed for in the joint has been totally annihilated with the unexpected death of his wife. At loose ends, he meets a mysterious, burly traveler who offers him a job on the spot, which Shadow (our hero) declines. As Shadow discovers not only that his wife is dead, but was killed during a sexual liason with his best friend and former employer, the tiny flame of emotion, so carefully guarded and cared for in prison, is snuffed out. The mystery employer, introducing himself as Mr. Wednesday, reappears to press his case once again, and this time Shadow takes him up on it.<br />Shadow is brought into a weird, orbiting subculture of seemingly everyday people, living on the fringes of American life. Each seems oddly familiar to him - as they will seem to you. And slowly, Shadow begins to realize the scale and scope of what he has become involved in - an impending battle between the scattered, ancient gods of immigrants and slaves, and the emerging gods of the American cultural and technological revolution.<br />For me, simply the amount of creativity put into the plot makes this a terrific read; but add to that Gaiman's craft of description and narrative - very stylish and stark - that combination makes American Gods a real treat. Ordinarily, I might observe that a hero with only a hole for a heart is hard to identify with, but Shadow isn't really heartless, you discover as the story progresses, and Gaiman does a great job of slowly bringing the reader along for the ride, with a boatload of creative plotwork along the way.<br />Neil Gaiman has placed himself outside of the current state of fantasy or horror - forgoing Clive Barker's tendency for cheap thrills, and Stephen King's dense description for a more economical style that describes in shadows and light, with occasional vivid color. American Gods is a well-crafted and imaginative trip behind the scenes in a land whose gods are as vulnerable as the people themselves.long the way.<br />Neil Gaiman has placed himself outside of the current state of fantasy or horror - forgoing Clive Barker's tendency for cheap thrills, and Stephen King's dense description for a more economical style that describes in shadows and light, with occasional vivid color. American Gods is a well-crafted and imaginative trip behind the scenes in a land whose gods are as vulnerable as the people themselves.	2001-08-09
US	49462192	R706YJKUMTDPU	0451452011	915129613	Red Dwarf: Infinity Welcomes Careful Drivers	Books	2	0	8	N	N	Slow down there - hazard ahead	If you're like me, you picked up Red Dwarf because of the numerous comparisons to Doulgas Adams' Hitchhiker's guide series, and the compliments from British television viewers. <br />David Lister (the hero) is no Arthur Dent. Rather than lampoon Earthling culture (read Anglo) like Douglas Adams, the team of Grant & Naylor try to send up a more specific variety of personalities - the loser with a simple heart, and the incompetent egomaniac. Not only are these characters not terrifically funny, but hard to relate to. The result is a very dark plotline with the best laughs being offered in Naylor's description, rather than the actual plot or dialog.<br />I got three really good laughs out of this book, and that's about it. And the ending (which I won't divluge) - all I can say is \\"Sheesh!\\" While the television series may have been a classic (check your sources,) the book I read is hopefully not a worthy indicator of the shows' humor or quality. (P.S. - I caught the series on Sci Fi the other night, and other than the odd laugh, it's a fairly accurate video rendition of the book. If it's your thing, enjoy, but it just isn't that funny.)<br />Read any one of the Hitchhiker's guide books again, or Adams' excellent non-fiction \\"Last Chance to See\\" which should be a better representation of the type of humor mixed with pathos that Grant & Naylor were trying for.	2001-08-09
US	49462192	RE4FPTNWAQBT7	0141000511	158546797	Hackers: Heroes of the Computer Revolution	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A well written read - especially for a simple enthusiast	If you're considering reading Hackers, by Steven Levy you're either a hacker wannabe, or maybe the real deal looking for a trip down random-access memory lane. Either way, Hackers is a well-written narrative version of the history of &quot;hacking&quot; - that is, figuring out how to make computers perform tasks, often by simple trial and error; from the early days at MIT in the late 50's through the microcomputer revolution in the eighties. Not only is it well-written and organized, it gives you just enough technical data to increase your understanding of the hackers' achievements, and doesn't drown you in jargon.<br />I read this as research for a writing project; I use computers, I like computers, but by the end of the book I was wrapped up in a world of people who are consumed by the curiosity of what a computer is capable of. All the of real people that Levy writes about are interesting and vibrant in their own peculiar ways. And all the description of ingenuity and innovation in the sake of a good hack really gets you inspired.<br />I'm sure there are people who will take issue with Levy's selective coverage of the machines covered, debatably skewed emphasis on the bookish quality of the MIT group versus the crazy, do-it-yourselfers at Stanford, etc., and all of the people covered are not shown in a uniform light. But if you love computers, and would like to read about some really interesting people who accomplish some pretty amazing things, then this is a book for you.	2001-07-16
US	49462192	R2JV96J1QN03SO	0060199563	461879486	Thief of Time	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Too much of a good thing	With each successive Discworld novel, Terry Pratchett pushes the boundaries of his creation further and further - in Thief of Time, he tries to destroy it altogether.<br />... using the Auditors, the little papershufflers of the universe who crave order, and find humanity the source of way too much disorganization. The Auditors send an emissary to find a sympathetic human to unwittingly aid them by re-assembling the Glass Clock which imprisons Time. This plot to bring and end to chaos is discovered by Death, who brings iin hbis granddaughter Susan, who's been working as the hardest-working schoolteacher in Ankh-Morpork...<br />... already you can tell it's a little much, even for Terry Pratchett. The idea behind Thief of Time is good, but it almost might have made two books instead of just one. We get to spend some great, hilarious moments with Lu Tze (from Small Gods) the humble sweeper and rogue History Monk; Death, as always plays a role, but the really great bits go to Susan; and Nanny Ogg plays a bit part in the substory which, of course, merges with the main plot in the last 80 pages.<br />While the subject matter of reversing time, editing history, &quot;slicing time&quot; is very inventive; it tends to make the reading a bit chaotic. The characters, as always are funny and warm, and resonate well with this enjoyable series - but the individual parts intereaction seemed a bit forced. Any one of the substories would have made a good story by itself: with Lu Tze and Lobsang, Susan and her students, and Lady LeJean and Jeremy Clockson you find youself wishing for only one thing - a little more time.	2001-06-18
US	49462192	R2WB10VFS0PWTJ	0060968745	557300697	Cartooning with the Simpsons	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This is one of the best cartooning books ever	I am an illustrator, animator, AND I work at Fox. My copy of this book has gotten so much use over the 7-odd years I've had this, it should be falling apart. This is why this is such a great book:<br />1) IT'EASY AND IT'S FUN. Many &quot;how-to&quot; aniimation and cartooning books purportedly cater to children, yet the drawing level is way beyond most entry-level artists; the Simpsons, by Groening's own admission started out as lame doodles. Everything is made up of circles and squiggles - perfect!<br />2) IT'S WELL ORGANIZED AND VERSATILE. There are many poses and expressions to try drawing, which set you into the whole &quot;vocabulary&quot; of the Simpsons.<br />3) IT'S FUNNY, AND REALLY EDUCATIONAL. Tips like &quot;Bend those elbows!&quot; and &quot;Marge's hair hides two bowling balls,&quot; not only get a laugh, but really give you an insight on how to contruct a solid animated figure.<br />I refer to this book all the time, even for my own drawings. For the money, this has been one of the most useful pieces of reference I have. Get it for your favorite starving artist, or doodling kid.	2001-05-18
US	49462192	RBD2VQQTJ02I5	0802733573	376154080	Ex-Libris: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A terrific and literate story	I picked up Ex-Libris because I loved the cover art - and was soon engrossed in its contents, rabidly turning page after page, all the way through the epilogue.<br />Ex-Libris is the story of mild-mannered bookseller and self-described homebody, Isaac Inchbold, set in 1670 London. His quiet, predictable life is disrupted by a intriguing letter from a widow, who retains his services to locate a missing, and purportedly valuable, manuscript that is missing from her fathers' library. As Inchbold begins to research the provenance of the manuscript, he is drawn into a network of intrigue and international espionage that encompasses nearly all of Renaissance Europe, ancient Greece, Egypt and more.<br />Rather than reveal any more of the plot, it's worth noting King's writing craft: his settings come alive with plenty of well-researched detail that only the most dyed-in-the-wool stickler would take issue with; his narrative and description beg a comparison to Dickens in many ways, with his unwilling protagonist being dragged along through events by an assortment of people who only seek to use him; and lastly, a plot that has as many twists,  turns, and blind alleys as the street map of London itself.<br />While King's use of language may require a little effort, Ex-Libris is worth every minute. This is not only a well-researched historical thriller, it's a really compelling story with a great twist ending. If you like Eco's Name of the Rose, or even Neal Stephenson's Cryptonomicon, you'll like what's between the covers of Ross King's Ex Libris.	2001-05-17
US	49462192	R2X1XHJE01H6QO	0802733573	376154080	Ex-Libris: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	an excellent historical thriller	I initially fell in love with the cover art of Ross King's Ex Libris, but soon was totally engrossed in the content of its pages instead.<br />The story involves a mid-1600's London bookseller name Isaac Inchbold who is by self description, a softening bookworm who craves the comfort and regularity of his carefully organized life. His departure from his humdrum existence is precipitated by a simple letter, soliciting his help in finding a lost manuscript - but the details of the letters are suspicious, and the tone of the letter is hushed and desperate.<br />After meeting an aristocrat's widow, Inchbold is led on an ever-descending spiral of thievery and intrigue surrounding the lost manuscript, which disrupts and then threaten's Inchbold's very life.<br />I don't want to give away any more: the plot twists keep you rabidly turning pages all the way until the epilogue. Ross King's use of language is suberb, and really requires attention from the reader; his method of description and narrative beg a comparison to Dickens in many ways, while there is enough contemporary &quot;action&quot; sequences to keep you reading late into the night.<br />I highly recommend this book for avid readers and history enthusiasts - there is abundant detail that shows the care and craft that Ross King has put into putting his own unique stamp on this book.	2001-05-15
US	49462192	R3TRK9YENMXNXF	0061020400	847958713	The Fifth Elephant (Discworld)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great Watch adventure	Ordinarily, if you have to have read books prior, I think that limits the rating to at most a 4 stars; The Fifth Elephant is a prime exception.<br />Yes, you would benefit from a little familiarity with Carrot and Angua's tempestuous interspecies awkwardness, Sam Vimes' reluctant rise to nobility, and the ever-hilarious Dwarves and their deadly bread. This story is so strong and packed with twists, however, that there's never enough time to notice. Terry Pratchett's plotcraft has only gotten better over the years, and this is one of his best.<br />The Fifth Elephant can be a good starting off point, therefore, beacause after meeting all these characters, you'll immediately want to know more.	2001-04-30
US	49462192	R2UQH71MGXUOII	0061020672	469869447	Sourcery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	One of the best Rincewind books	What do you get when the eighth son of an eighth son has an eight son? A thaumaturgical headache that's too big for his britches, is what.<br />In Terry Pratchett's discworld, wizards are like your uncle that builds stuff in the basement: you wouldn't want to be left alone with him, but boy! can he do some cool stuff! And when they are fired up by a powerful young Sourcerer, they decide that the Disc is better off in their hands. The only problem is &quot;their hands&quot; means their own and no one elses', even another wizard. Fortunately, to battle this powerful youngster, the Disc has Rincewind, the most inept and ill-equipped wizard of all time.<br />Like many of the earlier Pratchett books, Sourcery is a pretty basic plot, with a lot of jokes sprinkled throughout. There are some great bits with Death, the Apocralypse (think apocryphal + end of the world, because no one can agree on when it's coming) and the Ice giants were a hoot. After having moved on to prefer the books involving the Watch (Men At Arms, Feet of Clay) and the Witches (Lords and Ladies, Equal Rites, etc.) I was glad to read a Rincewind book that cast him a little deeper than a mobile panic attack, even though that's what he is.<br />You don't necessarily have to have read the prior four books, but why not start at The Color of Magic? Then, you can enjoy Sourcery a little more fully, then want to read all of them like I did.	2001-04-30
US	49462192	R3HJ5W79ON74XC	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	3	4	11	N	N	Nice writing, a little confused	If you read The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier and Clay, there's a lot waiting for you: an interesting and emotionally engaging plot, good use of language and narrative, and characters that you can really get interested in.<br />The story begins with Josef Kavalier's escape from pre-Shoah Prague to 1939 Brooklyn, in the company of the Golem of Prague. His cousin, Sammy, and he are forced to share a room, but soon become friends and partners, with Sammy's canny business sense to and Josef's classically-trained artistic ability. The adventures that follow, are a diagram of the American dream at work in wartime, and the study of two young men who transcend their own inadequacies by living through a brand new type of golem -  the comic book superhero - they bring to life.<br />All this comes with a cost - Josef arrives alone, and works night and day to rescue his brother from the impending Nazi regime. The long hours isolate Josef, and send him into an obsessive state, which gets him into regular physical danger. Sammy, who has thrived in his role as the writer, finds only hollowness in his success at writing, and buries himself in his work, only to find himself even more lonely.<br />The thematic core of Kavalier and Clay is rock-solid: the journey of our heroes to emotional completion through the trials of isolation, displacement, and loss is very reminiscent of John Irving's Garp, or Widow For One Year. Chabon's use of the language, though sometimes a little heavy on the 50 cent words, is well-crafted and lyrical - a rare quality these days.<br />The book falls apart with its unfocused center portion: there are &quot;character development&quot; detours - Josef's stint as a radioman in Anarctica, and Sammy's involvment with a celebrity. These segments come at a chapter breaks, with a non-sequitur suddenness, and both take a while to resolve. The reasoning for these detours is plain - when taken away from their golem, they find they are more desperate and incomplete than before - yet the execution and events are wordy and lack the elegance of the rest of the book. <br />The resolution, while not surprising, is a good read, making The Adventures of Kavalier and Clay worth checking out. Yet Chabon's over-attention to detail and swerving denoument only serves to keep us away from his creations, which leaves you feeling a bit hollow yourself.	2001-04-18
US	49462192	R2J5O6HKJZKNGO	0553576399	15854629	Distraction	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Great title	Watch that last step, it's a lu-lu!<br />Distraction is the story of a political operative at loose ends - both professionally and socially.  It's 2044, and Oscar has just orchestrated a decisive victory for a new, idealist Senator and many close to him speculate that he himself would make an excellent candidate were it not for his ... background problem. With the campaign over, Oscar craves some new challenge where his considerable talents can be directed. He stumbles on to a simmering situation with a rogue governor and a localized struggle for politcal power over an erroneously shut down Air Force base and a huge biotechnology lab. He manages to build a luxury hotel next to it, and proceeds to...<br />Got you hooked yet? Distraction got me early on. The plot, setting and ideas covered in this book really are creative and varied. The futurist outlook (take it with a dose of black humor) is surprising and not unrealistic. I found that I was looking at current events in a whole new light, and I couldn't wait to read more. As the pages wore down to the final chapter, however, I found that the character's coldness wasn't acceptable any longer, and I kind of wanted a bit more from their actions besides brilliantly scripted confrontation.<br />I enjoyed this book until about 3/4 the way through, then it kind of fell apart, stressed by its own velocity. If you like this sort of thing, it's very well-written and creative. Outside of its own cyberpunk environment, it doesn't hold up as well.	2001-04-11
US	49462192	RJKRHYFDO6DTD	0375725784	381316770	A Heartbreaking Work of Staggering Genius	Books	2	17	20	N	N	Read Catcher In the Rye again	I read the initial pages of A.H.W.O.S.G. (kindly acronymed by the author early on) and was immediately engaged by its immediate sense of humor about itself and its contents. The point of view is fresh, frank, and funny, so I continued on without any worry. This, I thought, is going to be great.<br />The first portion of the book is concerned with the Egger children's transition from children in picturesque, suburban Illinois to &quot;Party-of-Five style naifs&quot; as he puts it, after both of their parents succumb to cancer within weeks of each other. After that, they are wracked with guilt and remorse like any child at the death of a parent - never mind both parents - but simultaneously kind of thrilled: David Eggers makes note of the desert island style thrill of being young and nearly totally free, able to write your own lifestyle in broad strokes.<br />I really liked the notes and observations about how the author felt about raising his nine year-old brother: his oddly traditional views about what Toph should and should not be exposed to; his paranoia about his brother's safety each time he left the house; and the dual nature of how he himself has to behave (like a Mom? Dad? Older brother?) and how his younger brother (Son? Youthful Ward? Friend?) reacts in return.<br />All this is delivered with a healthy dose of media-savvy and self-awareness, which still is okay. David Eggers is very funny, and set against the mind-bendingly tragic and statistically unthinkable events that make up his life, it's a pretty entertaining read. Just as you're really enjoying it, comes the tryout for The Real World.<br />Just the mention of the show brought the whole energy of the book down a notch, and the interview with the show producer slowed it further. Without going into livid detail (in deference to those who'd still like to read AHWOSG) the whole section becomes a sucker-punch psychological wank that stops the whole book dead in its tracks. Even precious self-awareness, funny siblings, and sleeping with grade school friends can't save it then.<br />For young people today who haven't gotten around to reading Catcher In The Rye, this will probably have a lot of the same impact and meaning, due to its contemporary setting, people, and issues. AHWOSG, however, is no subsititute for Salinger's well-crafted ennui and fecklessness. At that point, the only voice louder than your own telling him to &quot;Get a Job!&quot; is his own, and that voice isn't enough to sustain this work, which is truly heartbreaking.	2001-04-09
US	49462192	RZW8NUTDDAXZ1	0679893105	994627826	The Golden Compass (His Dark Materials, Book 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A step up from Harry Potter - well crafted and dark	I picked up The Golden Compass thinking that it'd be a nice diversion until Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire came out - I was soon totally absorbed in Philip Pullman's excellent &quot;His Dark Materials&quot; trilogy and eager for more.<br />The Golden Compass is the story of a young tomboy named Lyra, a child of absentee parents; her mother disappeared at an early age, and her father travels extensively doing research for Oxford University, in a world very similar to our own.<br />But not quite - early on, you begin to see differences: every person has a personal daemon, an extension of their own soul and life, with which they can communicate and experience things. The bond between Lyra and her daemon, Pantalaimon, is the one thing that Lyra holds dear. All else is a street-urchin's life, lived in back alleys and rooftops, and mud fights.<br />That is, until the day that her father returns home with mysterious results of some research he has been doing in the far North. Those results spur a secret attempt to kill Lyra's father, which Lyra uncovers. Thus begins Lyra's trip into a world that she thought she could avoid: the world of early adulthood.<br />Unlike the Harry Potter books, where even the dark corners are lit (a little), Philip Pullman's books start out dark and get darker. Lyra's journey is hard, and met with challenges, fear, and failure. Pullman doesn't write down to you, and doesn't always give the reader the easy way out. It can be a tough read for the first fifty or so pages, but from then on it's all action and adventure, with a real cliffhanger ending that will have you running back to the bookstore for the also excellent, &quot;The Subtle Knife.&quot; Instead of breathlessly waiting for the next Harry Potter book, you'll be reading Philip Pullman.	2001-04-04
US	49462192	R2ZD4QXYX3DDEY	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	5	0	0	N	N	...Check this out!	Harry Potter, as a media phenomenon is pretty impressive by now: millions of books sold; total sales represent a hugely lopsided portion of Scholastic's annual income; J.K. Rowling rocketing from virtually homeless to the 3rd most wealthy woman in England - it's a bit much to accept.<br />I picked up the book because I liked the illustration on the cover, but as I read a few pages, I found my imagination moving faster and faster - there is so much to imagine and experience in these books, that it's difficult to not spill out the entire plot in one sentence....This is a great read for both kids and adults for a number of reasons: the plot is very inventive, intricate, and well-crafted; The characters are fully developed and ring very true, in the tradition of Roald Dahl or Beverly Cleary; and the settings and imagery consistently set your imagination ablaze with activity.<br />When a kid begs you something that's part of the latest craze, as an adult one tends to simply dismiss the object out of hand, thinking that the desire for that thing will be quickly replaced by something just as vapid - don't fall into this trap with Harry Potter. Getting a kid interested in reading is a reward enough, but I would encourage parents to read the books also (in order, please) to be able to talk about this wonderful world with their kids. It'll be an experience that you'll never regret.	2001-04-04
US	49462192	RVYZQNOJXI3R6	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This is a great story - Pratchett at his best	Some of the other Pratchett books I've had to give only four stars - because of Feet of Clay. This, to me, was the most memorably enjoyable book in the Discworld series.<br />A series of brutal, yet inexplicable crimes once again lead Sam Vimes and the Watch down the alleys and backstreets of Ankh-Morpork ... well, not Nobby, because he's been appointed a lord by the Registrar of Heraldry!<br />For those who relish in the early Pratchett non-stop puns, Feet of Clay has it; like the plot twists? got you covered; like a little message about free will? No problem. You want fries with that?<br />Anyone who enjoys humor will enjoy Terry Pratchett - people who like a very engaging plot with a surprising ending will really enjoy Feet of Clay. Since you don't really have to read the Discworld books in order, this can be a great starting point - just on the strength of the read. I highly recommend it.	2001-03-29
US	49462192	R3LHS73FTEMPW2	0140296131	200647078	A Star Called Henry (The Last Roundup, Vol. 1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The best book I read in 1999	Roddy Doyle's writing is engaging, effusive, enlightening, and a bunch of other E words - except English. The flavor and rhythm of Irish life is so vividly captured in all of his books that by the end, you're swearing by all the saints and Mary as you're on your way down the pub for a pint and chips.<br />A Star Called Henry is Doyle's best yet - a young man, coming to age during hardship (is there any other -ship in Ireland?) with a sickly brother to care for, ends up finding himself in the midst of The Troubles in early 20th Century Ireland. You admire his spirit and carefree nature, but you worry for him also: he throws himself into conflict after conflict with utter abandon beacuse he alternately doesn't care or wants to continue living very dearly.<br />While the quirky, photographic style of Doyle's Barrytown Trilogy (c'mon, you saw The Commitments) has given way to a darker style of narrative, Doyle treats his subjects - Henry, his mother, and the city of Dublin - with care, affection, and humor. An additional bonus is all the backstory about the formation of the IRA, Michael Collins, and the sewer system under Dublin.<br />While A Star Called Henry is based on historical fact, it's still a novel centered around a young man who is alternately Henry Smart or Henry Not-So-Smart - the setting is incredibly well-researched, and will only whet your appetite for more accurate detail - which can be extensively satisfied by the excellent bibliography in the back of the book.<br />Enjoy Henry Smart, fer chrissake, and look forward to the next one coming soon, ya eejit.	2001-03-29
US	49462192	RB2VTJ4330L0C	0061057649	861145707	Feet of Clay (Discworld)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	This is a great story - Pratchett at his best	Some of the other Pratchett books I've had to give only four stars - because of Feet of Clay. This, to me, was the most memorably enjoyable book in the Discworld series.<br />A series of brutal, yet inexplicable crimes once again lead Sam Vimes and the Watch down the alleys and backstreets of Ankh-Morpork ... well, not Nobby, because he's been appointed a lord by the Registrar of Heraldry!<br />For those who relish in the early Pratchett non-stop puns, Feet of Clay has it; like the plot twists? got you covered; like a little message about free will? No problem. You want fries with that?<br />Anyone who enjoys humor will enjoy Terry Pratchett - people who like a very engaging plot with a surprising ending will really enjoy Feet of Clay. Since you don't really have to read the Discworld books in order, this can be a great starting point - just on the strength of the read. I highly recommend it.	2001-03-29
US	49462192	R3PFDS4C5DY568	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	9	11	N	N	If you like Silence of the Lambs, you'll love this	The Alienist is an incredibly well-crafted and detailed story - a perfect blend of both psychological horror and suspense.<br />The story is told from the point of view of John Moore, a New York journalist in turn of the certury New York City. Moore is initially brought in by an associate of his, Laszlo Kreizler, to provide some background information on a recent grisly murder of a child prostitute. As the plot unfolds, Moore's knowledge of the seedier side of New York City, plus Kreizler's controversial theories about human behavior and learned behavior lead them on a chase for a new type of creature - New York's first serial killer.<br />Carr's writing style may be a little stilted for some, but remind yourself that's it's told in first person, and at the turn of the century. Keeping that in mind, Carr's writing is refreshingly cultured and even ornate, according to the period. In this era of &quot;taut, lean, prose,&quot; it's nice to read an author who can craft a sentence with one or two commas in it. The plot moves forward with each turn of a page - and turn you will. As the events get progressively more gruesome, you will find yourself anxiously anticipating each new chapter.<br />Also, Carr's use of historical detail really serves to set the stage; further highlighting the shocking nature of the crimes described, rather than simply being backdrop. You are exposed to both sides of period New York, with all its gilded edges, bruises, and warts. <br />I definitely recommend this book, particularly as an alternative to Thomas Harris' abysmal &quot;Hannibal.&quot; It's a quick read, and thoroughly enjoyable. Check out Caleb Carr's other book, &quot;Angel of Darkness,&quot; also.	2001-03-21
US	49462192	R14UG5KBD7DW4V	0553572997	501395694	The Alienist	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you like Silence of the Lambs, you'll love this	The Alienist is an incredibly well-crafted and detailed story - a perfect blend of both psychological horror and suspense.<br />The story is told from the point of view of John Moore, a New York journalist in turn of the certury New York City. Moore is initially brought in by an associate of his, Laszlo Kreizler, to provide some background information on a recent grisly murder of a child prostitute. As the plot unfolds, Moore's knowledge of the seedier side of New York City, plus Kreizler's controversial theories about human behavior and learned behavior lead them on a chase for a new type of creature - New York's first serial killer.<br />Carr's writing style may be a little stilted for some, but remind yourself that's it's told in first person, and at the turn of the century. Keeping that in mind, Carr's writing is refreshingly cultured and even ornate, according to the period. In this era of &quot;taut, lean, prose,&quot; it's nice to read an author who can craft a sentence with one or two commas in it. The plot moves forward with each turn of a page - and turn you will. As the events get progressively more gruesome, you will find yourself anxiously anticipating each new chapter.<br />Also, Carr's use of historical detail really serves to set the stage; further highlighting the shocking nature of the crimes described, rather than simply being backdrop. You are exposed to both sides of period New York, with all its gilded edges, bruises, and warts. <br />I definitely recommend this book, particularly as an alternative to Thomas Harris' abysmal &quot;Hannibal.&quot; It's a quick read, and thoroughly enjoyable. Check out Caleb Carr's other book, &quot;Angel of Darkness,&quot; also.	2001-03-21
US	49462192	R2F41SYJPYUC0U	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Hey Parents! Read all the books - this one is the scariest	Just in case you're a parent and want to know what all the fuss is about, Harry Potter is a young boy who discovers that he is the orpahned son of two well-respected magicians, being raised by ordinary and brutish relatives. Despite what the few critics say, all the books discuss self-reliance, trust and moral behavior, and sound on various themes resonant with children: loss of a parent, superpowers, and facing fears with courage. Each book describes the adventures of successive years in a magical boarding school, where Harry and his companions are being instructed in magical arts. Harry, who is kind of shy and modest, is an unwitting celebrity beacuse of his deceased parents' status - this is more usually a hindrance than help.<br />In Goblet of Fire, Harry is allowed to compete in a contest to determine the worldwide school champion of magic: Harry is one of the youngest ever to be allowed to compete, which causes accusations of favoritism, and some bitterness from his usually steadfast friends. The plot twists keep the reader interested all the way through the book, and the ending is a shocker.<br />This book is an excellent progression in this series. Don't think of it as reading a &quot;kids' book,&quot; - Harry Potter can appeal to the misfit young adult in us all. As an adult, it would be easy to dismiss J.K. Rowling's excellent and imaginative series as another media creation - were it not for the fact that the books appeal to a wide range of ages, and inspire each reader to use their imaginations and read. Use these great books as an opportunity to share an enthusiasm with your kids, and find out how much you'll enjoy yourself!	2001-03-20
US	49462192	R37E3GL81EV5ZF	0061092177	497629870	Small Gods	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Really great - standalone Discworld	If you haven't read Terry Pratchett before, prepare yourself for some great laughs, inventive plot, and sharp satire. Pratchett's facility with satire within such an overfed genre (fantasy) is always a breath of fresh air.<br />Small Gods starts in Omnia, a country organized around a fundamentalist religion. Novice Brutha (our hero) is a simple, honest novice at the Temple who discovers that the voice that is speaking to him is coming from a tortoise claiming to be his god - Om. The tortoise explains that he's got some head-cracking to do, and he needs help. Why? Because he's a tortoise! Brutha gets set on a path walking between belief in his God and skepticism, while the evil Quisitor Vorbis tries to foment a holy war between Omnia and neighboring Ephebe. As the plot moves forward Brutha has to decide whether to do what he's been told or what he feels is right, even if the directions come from a tortoise.<br />Initially, I thought that Small Gods was a too obvious with the \\"question religion\\" type message, but I got over that because of some great writing by Pratchett: you shouldn't have to die for the truth - it's dying for lies makes more sense. Most of all, your god doesn't want you to die for it if the God's existence is dependent on you - you should live a long and fruitful life for your god. <br />If you're really put off by snarky references to religious tradition that may be too close for comfort, you may have probelms with Small Gods. But if you have a pretty good sense of humor and you're ready for some challenging satire that will make you think a little and entertain you, then go get some Terry Pratchett, for small Gods' sake.	2001-03-12
US	49462192	R32WZBNQN65P87	0380978954	476581890	The Truth: A Novel of Discworld	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A fine story to savor	Those who are familiar with Terry Pratchett are bound to give this a high-rating; familiar characters in a new light, a whole new thread along which you can navigate Ankh-Morpork, great, inventive plot ... <br />For those of you thinking of trying out what appears to be a five-star rated book, why not try out The Fifth Elephant (more action, basically the same characters), or Hogfather (way more jokes, simpler plot) and come back to this one later? You will benefit by reading some of the other Discworld books first to develop a sense of why some of the characters in Pratchett's books do what they do.<br />I agree with the review that commented on Pratchett's occasional heavy hand with a moral (freedom of press good, aristocratic scheming, bad) fortunately that never occupies too much time or space. The non-stop pun-ishment of the earlier Discworld books has given way to a more precision-crafted and finely tuned type of humor - one that only gets better if you get started from an earlier point.	2001-03-12
US	49462192	R25XQ5NQZATPJO	0552134627	390521147	Guards! Guards!	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Trying not to over-enthuse...	I just recently got to Guards! Guards! after having read all the books regarding the Watch essentially bakcwards. It has to get a four because in this, the first of the Watch books, Pratchett gets a little lengthy on detail - not that this is bad. In comparison, there are more jokes and the pacing is quicker in the later books.<br />Completely discarding this trivial observation, &quot;Guards!Guards!&quot; is a great starting point of entry into Discworld. It's a story of the everyday working stiffs on Ankh-Morpork's Night Watch, featuring their captain, Sam Vimes. He's tired, he drinks too much, and he just doesn't know when to let things drop. And when a dragon shows up and starts frying people, Sam doesn't ask when or where, he asks, &quot;Why?&quot;<br />Setting himself apart from all other fantasy authors, Pratchett's writing, more satire than fantasy, is ever-engaging, smart, and downright plain funny. And no Tolkein-aping, thank you. Pratchett's world has a vigorous astrigent quality - just the thing for snapping you out of that overwrought D&amp;D model.<br />So what are you waiting for? You will like Terry Pratchett. You will like Sam Vimes, Carrot, Nobby, and even the Patrician. You'll only hate yourself for not starting sooner.	2001-03-02
US	49462192	R3JD22MI4TMZHD	0930289234	777411096	Watchmen	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Classic	If you only read one graphic novel, make it The Watchmen. Great example of the New Wave of Comics - dark, psychological storyline, humanly flawed superhuman characters, and some great plot twists that take you on a great ride as the chapters tick down to the ending.<br />The artwork is stylishly done, not too experimental, but the real star here is the story of how several over-the-hill superheroes don their uniforms to discover the murderer of a fallen comrade. The subsequent discoveries about themselves and their former allies makes great drama, and the pacing is great.<br />If you're REALLY not interested in comics, you should try it anyway. If you hate superheroes, that's okay, it's not about that. And if you like graphic novels, superheroes, and a great story, then what are you waiting for? You've probably already read it. Read it again.	2001-02-26
US	49462192	R3435U61TNX7B4	0967967104	211076862	Radio: An Illustrated Guide	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Great inspiration and reference	If you have ever entertained the notion of trying to slow society's slide into stupor by giving your take on things some sort of voice, this is a great manual for using radio as your format. The format, as an iluustrated guide, takes on the feel of a Boy Scout manual or some other type of DIY instruction. and you can't beat the price.<br />Ira Glass' walkthrough of producing his show &quot;This American Life&quot; for NPR is boiled down to a primer on first focusing on the work to be presented, then the techinical aspect of broadcasting it - an itemized list that can be applied to nearly ANY endeavor with a little metaphorical flexibility.<br />Jessica Abel is a very competent caricaturist and graphic artist, whose presentation of a very technical (and occasionally wordy) subject matter added greatly not only to the understandability, but made it an enjoyable read and browse. I pick this up and look at it all the time.<br />I have to give it four stars because it's not really for every body - BUT! If you are thinking of doing radio because you love it and you can't imagine not doing it (because there's no money, apparently) this is a great map to set you on your way, and a sensible guide to assembling tools and techniques. If you are a fan of &quot;this American Life,&quot; maybe this is the final factor in your own transition from radio listener to radio contributor.	2001-02-26
US	49462192	R2BP90YMPJFB3E	0679444815	786105285	Timeline	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Nice easy read	By this time, Michael Crichton is more of a screenwriter than a novelist - his books have odd lapses in character and plot that in any other novel would be fatal. As you read his books, however, they can really come alive because of the cinematic quality that his writing has. I expected all this when I picked up Timeline.<br />What I didn't expect was how quickly I would get sucked into it - the premise was crafted very well, and the initial conflict gets you hooked right away. You like the characters and are rooting for them (even if htey are a little two-dimensional.) While the ending is a little rushed (and too pat, to boot) it's not a huge disappointment, and you problably didn't notice since you were casting the movie in your head. <br />Definitely an easy, entertaining read, with plenty of imagination-stirring detail.	2001-02-26
US	49462192	R2V36J1WA4PGF0	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	1	10	21	N	N	Even fans should be disgusted by his laziness	The only thing I'm disappointed with is that I couldn't give this book a negative rating; this has got to be the WORST book I've ever read. Skip any superficial observation about the material - Harris was plainly writing a treatment for a screenplay, and fell prey to narcolepsy after the introduction. The reader should be so lucky - gone are little bonuses like internal dialog, character development or believable plot, and left in place is the most juvenile, amateurish parody of Harris' own writing.<br />Read Red Dragon again, and steal a copy of the movie when it comes out on video cassette - don't waste any money encouraging this type of Hollywood-fueled minimal effort.	2001-01-26
US	49462192	R1CB9XSCRTXP9C	0312864256	870089682	Winter's Heart (The Wheel of Time, Book 9)	Books	1	44	52	N	N	YAAAAAWN - I gave my braid an angry tug...	... how SICK are you of these words? Or how about, &quot;...he felt the greasy stain of the male side of the Power...&quot; I started this book because I thought, &quot;I'm not going to let him beat me - I AM going to finish it.&quot; (Path of Daggers was indeed a prequel, you get an inkling of the yawns to come in this book is by reading it.) At page 350, he's STILL introducing characters like each one is desperately related to the plot - AND NOTHING HAS HAPPENED YET. After this incredibly dull, pointlessly intricate, and occasional exercise in female psychobabble (as interpreted by a 13 year old boy) I gotta say it, you win. Stick a fork in me.<br />The first few books were verying shades of very good: took the Tolkien model for fantasy, and threw it away, good. Many differing cultures who have radically different motivation, also good. Plenty of strong women who think, and uh, talk. Constantly. But, the idea was good, and as long as you granted him the format of an epic saga, you could see what he was trying to do and stayed interested. Unfortunately, Winter's Heart is all talk, no action, and all the phrases and action are the same words in a slightly different order.<br />Here's another word: editor. Get one who is not related to you.	2001-01-26
