US	49467311	RFPUH4XTFACOL	0385489498	126353102	Marie Antoinette: The Journey	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Austrian woman	Pampered daughter of an Empress, doomed Queen of France, Marie Antoinette is one of the most Romantic figures in world history. Though many denounce her as selfish and stupid, she has her champions who see her as a compassionate woman victimized by historical circumstances. One of these is Antonia Fraser, whose &quot;Marie Antoinette: The Journey&quot; (2001) may well be one of the most sympathetic portraits ever written of a monarch, aside from &quot;official biographies&quot;. (But then, the author handled Mary, Queen of Scots the same way.) Beginning with her childhood as an Archduchess in Vienna, daughter of the doting but stern Maria Theresa, the book follows Maria Antonia's journey into France as the fiance of the hapless Dauphin, becoming the sparkling Marie Antoinette. Extraordinarily popular (at first), she usually displayed the finest discretion and kindness, despite her haughty attitude towards the Comtesse du Barry (who, incidently, was to share her fate). So many of the nasty rumors circulated about her were most likely untrue, including the &quot;Let them eat cake&quot; story, which Antonia Fraser says was first attributed to the wife of Louis XIV in the 17th Century. The libelles accusing Marie Antoinette of cruelty and promiscuity only prove that trashy publications are not confined to our era. Her attachment to Count Axel Fersen is recounted unblushingly, and it becomes particularly touching in 1791, when the dashing Swede tried to to help the Queen get her family out of France. Probably the most complicated and incriminating episode in Marie Antoinette's life was the Diamond Necklace Affair (Napoleon said it more than anything else led her to the guillotine), and Antonia Fraser describes its intricacies carefully -- emphasizing, bien sr, the Queen's innocence. Oddly enough, of the many portraits of Marie Antoinette, few show her displaying a necklace at all, much less anything resembling the rivire of the scandal. For a woman supposedly so enamored of jewels, she didn't seem to wear many. (There are more than 50 illustrations, most of them color plates.) The book is nearly 500 pages long, but the descriptions of court life and an increasingly dangerous political situation make for easy reading. Despite her husband's respect and the adoration of her children, Marie Antoinette will always have her detractors. But this biography shows that the Queen's final torments, as well as the judicial travesties enacted against her, more than compensate for any mistakes she may have made during her luxurious journey to disaster.	2004-06-27
US	49467311	RQFLFNZZXAGJU	0691019053	102337370	Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse, Vol. 1	Books	5	54	58	N	N	From Russia with tough love	There is an old, politically-incorrect adage regarding the translation of a literary work from one language to another. A translation is like a woman: if it's beautiful, it's not faithul; if it's faithful, it's not beautiful. This saw kept buzzing through my brain while I was reading Vladimir Nabokov's 1964 English translation of Alexander Pushkin's novel-in-verse &quot;Eugene Onegin&quot;. The poem has a unique place in Russian literature, required reading in schools -- required memorization, from what I understand. It seems an odd choice for school rooms, being an ironic love story with a sardonic edge; but then American students are required to read &quot;Silas Marner&quot;, George Eliot's tale of greed and redemption. Nabokov, the author of the dazzling &quot;Pale Fire&quot;, was born in Old Russia in 1899 and became a master of his native language as well as English. His version of Pushkin's masterpiece doesn't attempt to maintain the meter or rhyming scheme of the original, thereby leading to the danger of &quot;piped-in background music&quot;, but presents a literal translation of &quot;humble fidelity&quot;. There have been several English translations, and Nabokov sternly appraises them all. (Tchaikovsky's opera is dismissed as &quot;slapdash&quot;.) He even goes so far as to compare his work with that of other translators. Thus, Onegin's flirtation with a serf in Book Four is translated by Nabokov as: &quot;sometimes a white-skinned, dark-eyed girl's young and fresh kiss&quot;. In his notes Nabokov is amused by an earlier translator's &quot;And, if a black-eyed girl permitted, sometimes a kiss as fresh as she&quot; and is positively aghast at this rendering: &quot;A kiss at times from some fair maiden, dark-eyed, with bright and youthful looks&quot;. Now, to an English-only reader, these don't really sound that ridiculous; but Nabokov, in his bilingual security, can be a caustic critic. (As evidently are some of his admirers: I've noticed in Amazon.com that &quot;Eugene Onegin&quot; causes some emotional responses.) By the way, the notes alone are worth the price of admission. Ferociously erudite, Nabokov can also be extremely witty, as when he is discussing Byronic heroes: &quot;Judged by a number of early-nineteenth-century English and French novels that I have perused, the four main outlets or cures for ennui found by the characters suffering from it were: (1) making a nuisance of oneself; (2) committing suicide; (3) joining some well-organized religious group; and (4) quietly submitting to the situation.&quot; So, you've been alerted. Get out your dictionary (you'll need it), dust off your French (there's lots of it), and settle down to what might be called Nabokov's labor of tough love.	2004-06-20
US	49467311	R1MM4G9S63RC71	0671416405	587322766	Life and Death of Lenin	Books	5	17	18	N	N	From atheist to icon	He was born Vladimir Ilyich Ulyanov and Lenin was only one of his many noms de guerre, but Lenin is the one that stuck, the name of the mummy idolized in Red Square. Robert Payne's &quot;The Life and Death of Lenin&quot;, published in 1964, is a highly readable biography of the man who, having absorbed Marx, molded the philosophy to his own means. The government of the proletariat envisaged by Marx (I don't think he had mass executions in mind) became the dictatorship of Lenin, and his dictatorial nature became evident very early in his career. The book contains two striking photographs taken ten years apart. The portrait taken in 1887 depicts a clean-shaven clear-eyed schoolboy with a full head of hair. The group photo taken in 1897 shows a bald, bearded man facing the camera with a steely gaze. A mixture, I suspect, of nature taking its course and a case of concentrated re-invention. Lenin was still a youth when his beloved older brother was executed as a terrorist and when his father died (evidently of a stroke) in the teenager's presence. (Lenin said later: &quot;I was sixteen when I gave up religion.&quot;) It was after these two events that Lenin became increasingly revolutionary, a stand confirmed by his reading of &quot;Das Kapital&quot; in 1888. Payne follows his revolutionary activities, his arrest, his exile to Siberia. The long period of Lenin's traveling outside Russia, consolidating his Communist leadership mainly through his writings, is made consistently engrossing. Even more fascinating is Lenin's struggle after the Revolution with Kerensky, who was determined not to become &quot;the Marat of the Russian Revolution&quot; (according to Payne, the slaughter of Nicholas II and his family was directly ordered by Lenin) and the obssession Lenin had of witnessing the proletariat domination of Europe. (He was particularly concerned about England, perhaps because Marx lived there so many years and is buried in London.) The irony of the final chapters is Lenin's relationship with Stalin. Payne writes: &quot;Stalin was a monster. Yet it is important to observe that there could have been no Stalin without Lenin. Stalin was Lenin's child; and Lenin, who hated and despised and feared him, must bear sole responsibility for bringing Stalin to power.&quot; Lenin suffered several strokes in his early fifties and officially it was a stroke that killed him; but Payne states categorically that Stalin had him poisoned, citing the discrepencies in the stories of Lenin's last hours. After Lenin's death the mythology began immediately. I think Vladimir Ilyich, a hard-nosed unethereal type, would have been appalled at what happened to himself after his death, his body mummified, his spirit deified. Robert Payne's book neither mummifies nor deifies the man. Terrible and undeniably dynamic, here is the presence that altered the 20th Century and the world.	2004-06-07
US	49467311	R2NBPYPNR6J2KF	1879941120	591211491	So Red the Rose (Southern Classics Series)	Books	3	21	26	N	N	Sorrow in the Deep South	A bestseller in 1934, Stark Young's &quot;So Red the Rose&quot; is an odd study of Mississippi plantation life before, during, and after the Civil War. Stark Young was one of America's leading drama critics of the 20th Century (he died in 1963), and his style seems to have been influenced by the dramatists Chekhov (whose plays were translated by Young) and Maeterlinck. There is a dramatis personae at the beginning of the book, which is helpful because there is no protagonist per se. The plot shifts from character to character and many a character is introduced and then never seen again (just as in real life). The narrative in the first half is quite lanquid, as Young describes the aura of dolce far niente at neighboring plantations near Natchez. When the War comes, there are the classic complaints about petty inconveniences and the assurances that the whole thing will be over in a couple of months. But then the antebellum dream is slowly surrounded by the nightmare of war. Mississippi is invaded and Natchez is bombarded. Two of the young men in the families who joined the Confederate Army do not come back: one is killed, the other presumed dead. A patriarch, returning ill from the front, dies of natural causes. A family is given 20 minutes to vacate their mansion before it is burned down. Then, after the War, when their economic system has been obliterated and their properties mortgaged, the families accept it with a bitter resignation. All this is related in a calm, academic manner, and there may be those readers who find the telling a little cold. But I think Young, a refined critic, was determined not to cater to a taste for 1890's melodrama. His style is straightforward but restrained, an appropriate tone for a tale of Southern aristocracy enduring a Civil Reign of Terror.	2004-05-13
US	49467311	RUGEBTOMKGBAN	0825672686	842941726	Beethoven, Revised Edition	Books	4	24	29	N	N	An ode to genius	Maynard Solomon's 1977 biography \\"Beethoven\\" is divided into four main sections, \\"movements\\" so to speak, and every section is filled with themes and variations. Each section ends with an essay titled simply \\"The Music\\", in which is described the works Beethoven composed during the period under discussion. The interpretations are acute but easily understood by the non-musician. In fact, it could be that Solomon's book is the most reader-friendly of Beethoven biographies. (There are dozens.) Some of Solomon's revelations are surprising. For instance, the average reader does not think of Beethoven as a composer for voice, outside of \\"Fidelio\\" and the Ode to Joy, but Solomon states that \\"half of his 600 works are vocal\\". (Among other things, Solomon's description of \\"Fidelio\\"'s plot is fascinating.) Solomon also discusses how Beethoven's later works threatened to become travesties of his Herioc Style. In fact, \\"Wellington's Victory\\" was considered by professionals \\"a stupendous musical joke\\". Beethoven's difficult nature is legend, and Solomon deals with it frankly. Some of his irascibility was undoubtedly due to his deafness, which exacerbated after 1812. What caused the deafness is a little mysterious. The composer himself, in a rather weird anecdote, attributed it to an \\"excitement of rage\\", but the cause may have been more medically sound. Beethoven never married, and his \\"open\\" sex life consisted of flirtations with married women. (In fact, the 30-page account of the Immortal Beloved theorizes that she was a pretty Viennese matron whose affair with Beethoven eventually became an \\"exalted friendship\\".) His \\"secret\\" sex life, however, was his employment of prostitutes; and in his youth he was treated for syphilis. Did the contraction cause the deafness? Solomon doesn't go there, but he does indicate that Beethoven's morose treatment of other people was aggravated by the deafness. His brothers, for instance: the omission of Nikolaus Johann in the Heiligenstadt Testament and the shabby treatment of Kaspar Carl's widow and her son. Beethoven's gall could be incredible. Although he enjoyed \\"Il Barbiere di Siviglia\\", he warned Rossini not to attempt serious opera because it \\"ill suited the Italians. You do not possess sufficient musical knowledge to deal with real drama\\". Well, so much for Verdi (who was a child at the time). Of course, now, nearly 180 years after Beethoven's death, it's the music that matters. Even so, such a productive life can be appreciated on a literary level, and it's that experience that Maynard Solomon provides in this superlative biography.	2004-05-05
US	49467311	R2DHOPM8K6A3RQ	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Brave men, living and dead	Winner of the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1975, Michael Shaara's &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; is considered by many the best Civil War novel ever written. I don't know if I'd go that far, but it's certainly an impressive war story, set as it is at Gettysburg on those three fateful days in the summer of 1863. Shaara has composed a narrative that shifts back and forth from the officers and infantry fighting under Meade and the men serving under Lee. Readers may be surprised to find that only about one-third of the novel deals with the actual battle. Mainly the story is the contemplation, philosophic and prosaic, of soldiers on either side; and there are many musings on the strategy and significance of war. (The title is a cynical reference to Hamlet's observation that man is &quot;in action how like an angel&quot;.) Contrasted with the battlefield are the unavoidable personal conflicts: Longstreet's grave disappointment in and disapproval of Lee's decision, and Jeb Stuart's court martial being demanded by his angry peers. A lighter element is provided by a British observer, puzzled and sometimes appalled by American customs -- for instance, shaking hands. In the book's afterward, we learn this Victorian returned to England, predicting a certain victory for the Confederacy. Gettysburg was, of course, the beginning of the end for the South. As Shaara depicts the conflict (and there are almost 20 maps to help the reader keep his bearings), the Confederacy made itself vulnerable time and again, at the siege of Little Round Top or during Pickett's catastrophic charge. (The great irony of Gettysburg is that the Rebels were attacking from the North while the Yankees were defending in the South.) Both the battle sequences and the campfire scenes are flavorfully written; and, for the receptive reader, Shaara makes this critical episode in American history thoughtful as well as visceral.	2004-04-19
US	49467311	R2B5Y33RD39NTS	0452269563	410350403	Andersonville (Plume)	Books	5	71	77	N	N	Damned Yankees	MacKinlay Kantor won the Pulitzer Prize for fiction in 1955 for his novel \\"Andersonville\\", an epic account of the notorious prison camp in Southwest Georgia which operated from February 1864 till the end of the Civil War. An Iowan, Kantor seems to have strived to be impartial, but there are not-always subtle parallels between Andersonville and the concentration camps of Nazi Germany. The superintendant of the stockade was Henry Wirz, a Swiss who was educated in Berlin. His heavy accent is emphasized throughout the book; and near the end Kantor has written a haunting scene in which a Union officer arrests Wirz, the latter protesting that he was only following orders. (I'm not revealing plot elements here, it's a matter of historical record: in 1865 Wirz was executed as a war criminal.) The horrors of the prison are contrasted with outside digressions. One digression is the prisoners' memories of happier times in Pennsylvania, Massachusetts, and in what is called York State. Kantor's aim is to make the prisoners real people, not just faceless statistics. (Indeed, Chapter LIV is a young fifer's full life, from first impression to an out-of-body experience.) Another digression is the existence of residents in the vicinity of the stockade, whose lives are blighted by the neighboring corruption. The most important of these is Ira Claffey, a fictional plantation owner in his fifties, who has lost three sons in the War and whose wife goes mad with grief. (After the fall of Atlanta, Claffey, presuming on a slight acquaintance with Jefferson Davis, attempts to reach Richmond to plead for the cause of the Andersonville inmates, but he is stymied by the looting panic of retreat.) Many readers have commented on Kantor's decision not to use quotation marks. I was slightly disconcerted in the opening pages; but as I became more deeply involved with the book, I found that I had no difficulty discerning which were quotes and whose they were. It also gives the narrative a tougher, more documentary tone, appropriate for such a grim topic. Grim it ineviatably is. There's a skillfully ironic episode in the second half in which a young Rebel veteran discovers a Union escapee. The Southerner has lost a leg, the Yankee a hand, both at Gettysburg, and there's an eerie outside chance that they may have maimed each other. Their relationship and its effect on their lives is symbolic of what's happened to their severed country, and Kantor's artistic story makes Andersonville a microcosm of a disasterous conflict.re documentary tone, appropriate for such a grim topic. Grim it ineviatably is. There's a skillfully ironic episode in the second half in which a young Rebel veteran discovers a Union escapee. The Southerner has lost a leg, the Yankee a hand, both at Gettysburg, and there's an eerie outside chance that they may have maimed each other. Their relationship and its effect on their lives is symbolic of what's happened to their severed country, and Kantor's artistic story makes Andersonville a microcosm of a disasterous conflict.	2004-03-14
US	49467311	R1129MOYFN1WC8	0451627989	376253398	Napoleon	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A brief history of Napoleon	For an introduction to or a refresher course in the life of Napoleon Bonaparte, readers would do well to invest in Felix Markham's 270-page mini-biography &quot;Napoleon&quot;, published in 1963. Succinct it definitely is, which means that military campaigns requiring a great deal of detail tend to be a little dry, while Napoleon's coronation (depicted by David as one of the great spectacles in the first half of the 19th Century) is covered by Markham in a few brush strokes. The true value of the book, aside from its synopsis of a dazzling history, is Markham's incisive study of Napoleon's personality and the enormous effect he had on his generation as well as those to come. Junot is quoted as saying: &quot;He is the sort of man of whom nature is sparing and who only appears on earth at intervals of centuries.&quot; Napoleon's wisdom as an administrator is set against his occasional brutality, as when he had 3,000 prisoners shot to death at Jaffa or somewhat arbitrarily ordered the execution of the Duc d'Enghien. (It was the latter act that caused Beethoven to cross out the &quot;Eroica&quot; dedication.) Markham debunks some Napoleonic myths, including my favorite that Napoleon subsisted on only four hours of sleep per day, plus power naps. And for those of us who think of Napoleon's rise to power as an unobstructed arc of triumph, Markham reminds us that in the early part of his career Napoleon came more than once under the shadow of the guillotine. There are 38 illustrations and, like the text, they provide a sort of prcis of this extraordinary life. The portraits of Napoleon from the 1790's depict him in dramatic poses, his hair blowing in the wind, very much like a 1940's movie star. These contrast sadly with the St Helena pictures, the ex-Emperor leaning on a spade in his garden, looking tamed and resigned. From triumphant Emperor to tired exile, Felix Markham presents a &quot;Napoleon&quot; that is short but strong.	2004-01-28
US	49467311	R2MGSCS2X0IDK8	014039026X	282223312	The Prairie (Leatherstocking Tale)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Anonymous Natty	James Fenimore Cooper's 1827 novel &quot;The Prairie&quot; is an epic adventure featuring two major plots, twelve major characters, and a cast of thousands. Set in the Great Plains shortly after the Louisiana Purchase (the Lewis and Clark expedition is mentioned en passant), &quot;The Prairie&quot; sets two Indian tribes, the Sioux and the Pawnee, against each other as well as two disparate groups of white travelers. Even though Cooper had reservations regarding Sir Walter Scott that writer's influence on Cooper cannot be doubted. (One of the characters in &quot;The Prairie&quot; is named Le Balafr, as is a character in Scott's &quot;Quentin Durward&quot;, published in 1823.) On the other hand, Cooper's style foreshadowed Charles Dickens in many passages, particularly the powerful depiction of frontier justice in Chapter Thirty-two. The central section of the novel, with its siege of Ishmael Bush's encampment and the portrait of Bush's Amazonian wife Esther, seems to have affected Hemingway's &quot;For Whom the Bell Tolls&quot;. There are two young heroines, one swoony and the other spunky; but there are several heroes, including Duncan Uncas Middleton, a descendant of characters from &quot;The Last of the Mohicans&quot;, and Hard Heart, a Pawnee partisan. (Partisan is an obscure synonym for chief which Cooper uses throughout the book.) Then there is Cooper's most famous character Natty Bumppo, who had already appeared in &quot;The Pioneers&quot; in 1823 and &quot;The Last of the Mohicans&quot; in 1826. He was to figure twice more in the 1840's as a young man, but &quot;The Prairie&quot; describes his final days as a graybeard. The odd thing is he's never named -- he's simply called the Trapper. Evidently his Deerslayer days are over, though he's referred to as &quot;venable venator&quot; by the novel's comic relief character Obed Batt (or Dr Battius, as he pedantically prefers). One assumes that Natty had become such a popular character readers were not confused by his anonymity. At any rate, he carries the complicated narrative, partly because he communicates with both the whites and the Indians in their native languages. The narrative's flow is smooth and rapid, and &quot;The Prairie&quot; is a page-turner for a lazy afternoon or a long flight.	2003-12-26
US	49467311	R1AY57JWWR2580	1565121449	104577935	Cobb: A Biography	Books	4	4	7	N	N	A not-so-sweet Peach	A \\"natural\\" with a Napoleonic complex (\\"He knew how to win against the odds\\"), Tyrus R Cobb was, in the words of his biographer Al Stump, \\"the most chilling, the eeriest of all American sport figures\\". In fact, Mr Stump's impressed if sometimes impatient \\"Cobb\\" (1994) is subtitled \\"The Life and Times of the Meanest Man Who Ever Played Baseball\\"; and Mr Stump, who has contributed to Esquire and Sports Illustrated, has the anecdotes to prove it -- some from the Georgia Peach himself. Mr Stump helped Cobb write his memoirs in 1960, and it seems their collaboration was wary, to put it mildly. One thing Mr Stump never had any doubt about: Cobb was a great player. With a career batting average of .367 (compared to Honus Wagner's .329, for instance) and 6,294 put-outs, he was formidable both at bat or in the outfield. Then there was the draconian side: the bullying of team mates (even worse when he became player/manager of the Detroit Tigers) and using his spikes as stilettoes against opponents. Cobb had a reputation as a virulent racist, his hatred of Negroes causing him on one occasion to even beat up a black woman. During his rivalry with Babe Ruth Cobb's ethnic prejudice went so haywire he accused Ruth of being the product of miscegenation and applied all the common slurs. He also attacked fans (as did Ruth), sending at least one to the hospital. Of course, the \\"cranks\\" often asked for it, the stands filled with a rudeness and disrespect mainly confined today to a stadium which shall remain unnamed. Cobb's personal life and the reasons for his problems are sketchy. The razzing he received as a rookie, added to a bizarre family tragedy, caused him to have a nervous breakdown at the age of twenty. Some of Cobb's contemporaries thought he was truly insane, but the explanation for his behavior could be less drastic. Emotionally selfish (though financially generous) and subject to tantrums, it could be he simply never grew up; but Mr Stump doesn't explore the complexities that thoroughly. Of the 20 photographic illustrations in the book only one shows one of his five children. The wives are not pictured at all. Cobb was married twice and divorced twice. The second wife is barely mentioned; the first wife was strictly kinder Kirche Kche. As Cobb grew older, the Game grew away from him. His despotic attitude (Mr Stump calls him \\"the Torquemada of the ballpark\\") became unacceptable to a new breed of better-educated ballplayer, and his rejection of the Ruthian home run meant that many of his tactics didn't work anymore. He died in 1961, an alcoholic alienated millionaire, admired by Mr Stump though he felt distanced from Cobb. (Just three of Cobb's fellow players attended his funeral.) The fact that Mr Stump wrote this lengthy biography is proof that he thought Ty Cobb was an athlete worthy of respect and remembrance for his professional intelligence. As Connie Mack said: \\"His secret is that he thinks two plays ahead of everybody else.\\"	2003-11-16
US	49467311	R1XUK9J5SM2C6V	0786706260	451055080	The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper (Mammoth Books)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The usual saucy suspects	Because the perpetrator of the 1888 London slayings known as the Whitechapel Murders was never convicted as such the case has become the most popular whodunit in history. Every armchair detective in the world has his pet theory as to who the killer was and why he was compelled to slash to death women in the dead of night. Fortunately &quot;The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper&quot;, published in 1999, is both informative and fun to read. I say fortunately, because it presents a kaleidoscope of conjectures and contradictions from Ripperologists who here present the theories they have published in different books. (Colin Wilson, whose own essay is the last of 16, takes credit for the term &quot;Ripperologist&quot;.) This brotherhood is evidently a very chancy clique, characterized by tense camaraderie and frequent animosity. Shirley Harrison, in discussing an alleged Ripper diary (she's supported by Colin Wilson), says an informed debate sank to &quot;a low level of vitriolic abuse&quot;. No wonder, with all these different ideas: Paul Harrison and Bruce Paley agree on their working-class suspect, while Martin Fido concentrates on the Jewish aspect, and Sue and Andy Parlour favor the Freemason angle. (Philip Sugden was either not invited to this party or declined the invitation.) M.J.Trow plays a little prank on the reader to indicate how easy it is to categorize anyone -- you, me, Lewis Carroll -- as a serial killer. Then there is the legend of the Duke of Clarence, who married a &quot;model&quot; of the Catholic faith, siring her child. The potential scandal so spooked the Court it sanctioned a series of homicides. All this has been fodder for some extravagant fiction, but as Simon Whitechapel observes: &quot;If the murders were carried out to silence blackmailers, why were they so brutal? Why, in other words, were they so public?&quot; (His own arcane conspiracy theory combines Roman Empire decadence with Victorian kitsch.) A more stable, if less romantic, explanation is the connection between the Irish Nationalist cause and the Conservative government's awareness of similarities in the Whitechapel murders and Fenian terrorist tactics. &quot;The Mammoth Book of Jack the Ripper&quot;, well-edited by Maxim Jakubowski and Nathan Braund, offers many bonuses, including a chronology and autopsy reports. At the end is a bibliography, listing dozens of Ripper-related books, about 40 since 1988 alone. There is also a filmography, beginning with something called &quot;Farmer Spudd and his Missus Take a Trip to Town&quot; (1915) and including 1953's &quot;Here Come the Girls&quot;, in which Bob Hope is threatened by a character named Jack the Slasher. So who was Saucy Jacky? An insane surgeon? An over-zealous reformer? An angry boyfriend? Peter Turnbull states bluntly: &quot;Jack the Ripper was not a man: he was a myth.&quot; On the other hand, A.P Wolf has an article titled &quot;Jack the Myth&quot; in which a favorite candidate is promoted. It is A.P. Wolf who invites us to the party: &quot;Go on, check it out,&quot; this Ripperologist writes. &quot;The 'Final Solution' could be yours.&quot;	2003-10-29
US	49467311	R3IGNEPV4DIDW8	034015263X	924832259	The Occult	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Nostradamus and company	\\"Faculty X is simply that latent power that human beings possess to reach beyond the present,\\" Colin Wilson writes in the first chapter of \\"The Occult\\", his history of magic and mysteries throughout the centuries. In some people, mystics and poets (the book is dedicated to Robert Graves), that power breaks loose from its latency and becomes startling manifestations: prophecy, defiance of gravity, or what might be called behaving badly on a large scale. On the positive side, Faculty X is essential to intellectual evolution. Constructed in three major parts and running to nearly 600 pages, \\"The Occult\\" covers everything from the Kaballah to haunted houses. Needless to say, it is packed with fascinating individuals: Paracelsus, Cagliostro, Mesmer, Gurdjieff. Aleister Crowley hogs a whole chapter to himself. And,inevitably, there is Nostradamus. The 16th Century seer's reputation has been cheapened by super-market rags and, granted, the quatrains are vague and can be construed in different ways. But when Nostradamus pinpoints the insignificant village of Varennes as the cause of \\"tempeste, feu, sang, tranche {storm, fire, blood, chopping-off}\\" one must be impressed. Then there is the quatrain that has fueled so much post 9/11 controversy: \\"Like the great king of the Angolmois/The year 1999, seventh month/The Great king of terror will descend from the sky/At this time, Mars will reign for the good cause\\". I'm not entering the fray. However ... Detractors (ignoring the fact that he came astonishingly close) point out that Nostradamus was both two years off and two months off, but these are consistent miscalculations. Without doubt, terror descended from the sky. (Bear in mind, \\"The Occult\\" was published in 1971 and its author read terror descending from the sky as a prophecy of the hydrogen bomb.) Mr Wilson points out that \\"Angolmois\\" is an anagram for \\"Mongolais {Mongolian}\\" (anagrams are common in Nostradamus), and that \\"the great king of the Angolmois\\" is meant to be Genghis Khan. The Turkish Empire of Genghis Khan included what is now Iran. And \\"Mars will reign for the good cause\\"? I believe our government's bellicose patriotism speaks for itself. Mr Wilson himself becomes a prognosticator when he writes: \\"Suppose someone could invent some occult method whereby I could actually be present at the execution of Charles I, or watch the boy Mozart playing his own concerto to Marie Antoinette, or glimpse the face of Jack the Ripper as he walks under a street lamp.\\" I wonder what Mr Wilson thinks of virtual reality's accomplishments. The chapter \\"The Realm of the Senses\\" concentrates on such diverse cases as Daniel Dunglas Home, who astounded the Victorian era with his telekinetic exploits and Bishop Pike, who communicated with his dead son, a suicide, before he himself came to a strange end. Mr Wilson seems less impressed with claims of reincarnation -- e.g., Bridey Murphy -- but finally admits: \\"We had better acknowledge that we are little better than children, and adopt some of the observant open-mindedness that is characteristic of children.\\" As he states at one point: \\"The whole subject of the occult is full of 'absurdities' that offend the logical mind and yet cannot be dismissed as fantasies.\\" A child-like acceptance and imagination. Perhaps that's what is needed to cultivate Faculty X, which Colin Wilson states in the conclusion of this absorbing history is so important to mankind's future.	2003-10-13
US	49467311	R27CBMURSKEP5N	0393322238	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story of the Manson Murders	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Horror for Hollywood	Despite its length (600 + pages) and punctilious court room detail in the second half, Vincent Bugliosi's \\"Helter Skelter\\" is a fascinating account of the two nights of savagery which shocked the nation in 1969: starlet Sharon Tate and her three house guests (plus an unfortunate young man who, like Ronald Goldman, was in the wrong place at the wrong time) on August 9th, then the LaBiancas, a middle-aged upper-class couple on August 10th. With his co-author Curt Gentry, Mr Bugliosi opens the narrative with the discovery of the carnage at the Tate residence, goes through the invesigation (the LAPD does NOT look good here), and closes with the nine-month trial where Charles Manson and his \\"Family\\" members were brought to justice. The story is haunted by Hollywood history. Sharon Tate was the beautiful wife of acclaimed director Roman Polanski (they met while filming his \\"The Fearless Vampire Killers\\"); but her chances of ever becoming a major star, had she lived, is today debatable. Before she moved into the residence where she was murdered, the house had been occupied by Terry Melcher, the son of Doris Day and producer Martin Melcher. (He had been living there with Candice Bergen, herself the child of a popular entertainer.) Manson was introduced to Terry Melcher by Gregg Jacobson, a talent scout who was married to Lou Costello's daughter. One of the TV crewmen who discovered the bloody clothes discarded by the murderers was named King Baggott. It's an unusual name, and I assume he was the son or grandson of the silent film star. On a darker level, one of Manson's \\"indoctrinated\\", Bobby Beausoleil, appeared (according to Mr Bugliosi) in a Kenneth Anger film; and one of Manson's victims, a ranch hand named Donald \\"Shorty\\" Shea, had aspirations to be a movie actor. Hollywood Babylon,indeed.The \\"star\\"of the story, even with Mr Bugliosi's first-person narrative in the major part of the book, is Charles Manson. Extremely enigmatic, with a rhapsodic influence over individuals as well as groups, he is simple and extraordinarily complicated. One thinks of Rasputin, but Mr Bugliosi successfully compares him to Hitler: both were frustrated artists, both had nagging doubts regarding legitimacy and ethnicity in their family backgrounds, and both were vegetarians who loved animals (according to one of Manson's followers, he once petted a rattlesnake). Manson's mystique is undeniable. Mr Bugliosi relates how in court one day with Manson time literally stood still -- i.e., Mr Bugliosi's watch stopped. Manson was giving him a strange little smile. But in the final analysis one realizes that Manson, for all his mystical blend of the Bible and the Beatles, was simply a person who liked to kill people.As other reviewers have stated, while reading \\"Helter Skelter\\" you may aswell resign yourself to nightmares, as well as checking and re-checking your windows and doors. (Sometimes the most casual detail will turn your blood to ice: after butchering the LaBiancas, the killers raided their refrigerator and had a snack.) But stop reading? No, not once you've started. A gripping revelation of Hollywood's \\"creepy-crawley\\" underside, \\"Helter Skelter\\" gives the Bad and the Beautiful a horrible new meaning.	2003-09-21
US	49467311	R2NTA62A8HS4N5	0785919767	537877903	Serenade (in French)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Night Song	James M Cain's 1937 novel \\"Serenade\\"is, as the title suggests a love story, but a very dark and devious love story it is indeed. In keeping with its musical motif, it seems to be constructed in the symphonic form, thus:Chapters I-IV  Andante Chapters V-VII Allegro Chapters VIII-X Scherzo Chapters XI-XIV Adagio. The hero-narrator John Howard Sharp is suppose to be an operatic baritone, but he talks and acts like a film noir P.I. Not that opera singers can't be macho, but I have a little difficulty picturing Humphrey Bogart playing Rigoletto. Prepare yourself for a very politically incorrect tone: A homosexual is a fag, a Japanese is a Jap, and a Mexican is a \\"spig\\" -- I assume he means spick. (This is 1937 so \\"gay\\" means \\"happy\\".) The mood is quite masculine, as are 95% of the characters, so it comes as a surprise when it's revealed that the hero has indulged in what use to be coyly called the love that dare not speak its name. The only major female character is Juana, the puta whom Sharp meets in Mexico City in the opening chapter. Throughout the story she seems to be the \\"dumb muchacha\\" she describes herself as; but she abruptly becomes a femme fatale, her desperate act of hatred driving the plot to its somber conclusion. The story opens and ends in Mexico, the interim describing the hero's entertaining though somewhat implausible successes in California and New York. In the Scherzo section, when Sharp is being courted by both the Met and the movies, Cain treats the Met with deference but his contempt for Hollywood is palpable. (Ironically enough, in 1956 Warner Bros used \\"Serenade\\" as the basis for a Mario Lanza musical. One can only imagine Cain's reaction to this sudsy mess.) Incidently, Cain's novels are included in Crime and Mystery sections. Appropriate, perhaps, but don't expect Miss Marple.	2003-09-05
US	49467311	R2D18LQQR6CHOX	0451525213	144427766	The Pioneers (Signet classics)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	18th Century Ecologists	The title page of James Fenimore Cooper's 1823 novel \\"The Pioneers, or the Sources of the Susquehanna\\" defines it as \\"a Descriptive Tale\\"; and indeed the narrative is more a series of descriptions rather than a straight-forward plot. There is a well-drawn set of characters living quiet country lives. There is a plot \\"teaser\\" that is fairly obvious and finally resolved in the penultimate chapter, and there is a vague love triangle that never intensifies. In fact,Cooper seems to be not so much concerned with events as with attitudes. The story opens at Christmastime of 1793, and the settlers discuss the tumult of that year in Paris and the Vende. (One of their company is an migr who keeps muttering \\"Les monstres!\\" and \\"Mon pauvre roi!\\") Unfortunately, Cooper seems to have lost track of his time scheme because several months later in the story it's still 1793. This is one of the Leatherstocking Tales, which means that Nathaniel Bumppo (called Leatherstocking by the newcomers, Hawkeye by the Indians) is one of the major characters. But \\"The Pioneers\\", unlike \\"The Last of the Mohicans\\", does not involve Natty in dangerous adventures. (Which is just as well -- he's suppose to be 70 years old.) Instead, the novel presents frontier life in central New York at a settlement on Lake Otsego through commonplace but colorful occurrences: a fishing expedition, a turkey shoot, a gathering at the Bold Dragoon, a trial. The remarkable aspect of \\"The Pioneers\\", and the reason today's readers will identify with it, is the many arguments for the conservation of natural resources, both flora and fauna.Natty Bumppo's concern is understandable, as he is a man of the wilderness. More surprising is the wealthy entrepreneur Judge Temple's insistence that \\"we are stripping the forests, as if a single year would replace what we destroy. But the hour approaches when the laws will take notice of not only the woods, but the game they contain also\\". Later, both he and the Leatherstocking are appalled by the indiscriminate slaughter of birds in a single outing. This ecological attitude gives an unexpectedly modern tone to \\"The Pioneers\\" and makes it sympathetic reading in the 21st Century.	2003-01-06
US	49467311	R3IO20L44MU2KA	B000066TPW	247231538	Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Life as a grand slam	Richard Ben Cramer has subtitled his colorful biography of Joe DiMaggio \\"The Hero's Life\\". Not A Hero's Life --The Hero, as in the idol, the icon. \\"Some air of immortality,\\" he writes, \\"had wafted around DiMaggio from the start of his career.\\" And his career started early: he was only 18 when he entered the minors, 22 when he signed with the Yankees. So from the time he was a kid people were deferential and devoted to him. As a non-com in the Army, stationed in Hawaii during World War II, he was catered to by generals. Many readers of \\"Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life\\" have complained that the author concentrates too heavily on DiMaggio's unpleasant characteristics, primarily his avarice. (DiMaggio, a poor fisherman's son raised during the Great Depression, had a lifelong preoccupation with money. Well, duh.) But the fact is, Mr Cramer doesn't spare anyone: he lets Lou Gehrig have it (yes, nice ole Gary Cooper Gehrig), and Ted Williams is referred to as Teddy Tantrum. Actually, despite the fact that he often got too big for his pin stripes, DiMaggio was a fairly decent man. I mean, considering the suzerainty he was allowed, he could have been a monster; but his deep loyalty to his family alone is commendable. DiMaggio was married and divorced twice. His first wife, the mother of his only child, seems to have been treated with consideration; his second wife, of course, became the great love of his life. (Joe DiMaggio Jr, like the sons of so many iconic men, drifted into the life of a loser.) The Game is discussed with panache. It seems to have been a different ball game 60 years ago. \\"This was a rough set of boys, mostly poor, uneducated, and possessed of powerful wills which they enforced by intimidation and physical dominance.\\" Rhubarbs were common; and a cold, antagonistic attitude was encouraged, even among team mates. This actually became law with the Non-fraternization Rule, enforced by the first baseball Commissioner Kenesaw Mountain Landis (his real name, not asobriquet). Mr Cramer points out, by the way, that jeremiads decrying baseball's purity being threatened by corruption go back to the 1870's. For fans the biography's most absorbing section will be Book II, the roughly 240 pages describing Joe's apogee, including his 1941 hitting streak, the excitement of triumph as well as the pressure of responsibility. \\"There was no way to stop it: the business of being a hero was too big.\\"The biography skips from the summer of 1962 to the Loma Prieto earthquake of October 1989. The last 37 years of DiMaggio's life are told in flash-back, so to speak, and the closing chapters have a somewhat hurried quality. It's also in this section that Joe appears least attractive, becoming increasingly irascible and greedy. (During the earthquake, Joe was seen toting a trash bag from his Marina District home. According to Mr Cramer it contained $600,000 in laundered mob money.) Does Richard Ben Cramer like Joe DiMaggio? I think there's a grudging admiration here, not to mention a sympathy for the tremendous stress of being a living legend under the scrutiny of massive communication. Mr Cramer has a way with a phrase (\\"fist-high headlines\\"), and he seems to have an appreciation for mid-20th Century pop culture. After DiMaggio meets Marilyn Monroe in 1952, Mr Cramer follows Marilyn's career as easily as he does Joe's. (Marilyn wanted to play Nefer in \\"The Egyptian\\", an alarming idea.) Written in a sassy, irreverent style appropriate for the milieu Joe moved in, the world of Lefty O'Doul and Toots Shor, \\"Joe DiMaggio: The Hero's Life\\" is smooth, smart, amusing -- hey, it's outta here!	2002-08-12
US	49467311	R3MUDHO79PAAP	0805067884	607359357	The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The World as Intellect and Music	The British teacher and author Bryan Magee has approached Richard Wagner in the past (in his \\"Aspects of Wagner\\"), but never has he presented Wagner as an artist so deeply influenced by philosophy as he does in \\"The Tristan Chord: Wagner and Philosophy\\". Mr Magee is a perceptive scholar and evidently a very good teacher. Anyone who can make Kant, Schopenhauer and Nietzsche lucid has got to be good. Wagner became entranced by Schopenhauer's \\"The World as Will and Representation\\" at the age of 41, and its spellbinding influence stayed with him for the rest of his life. An atheist, Schopenhauer saw the world, dominated by the Will to have and keep, as a grasping, relentlessly unhappy place. We can escape this torment by entering a metaphysical state similar to the Buddhist Nirvana, a bliss exemplified by music. Bertrand Russell, in \\"A History of Western Philosophy\\", can't resist pointing out that Schopenhauer, despite his ethereal pessimism, loved good food, fine wines, and casual affairs. (We won't even discuss his nasty temper.) Similarly, Wagner himself coveted luxury and power. But more important is Schopenhauer's influence on the music dramas themselves -- \\"The Ring\\", obviously, but even more so \\"Tristan und Isolde\\", with its rejection of the phenomenal world, the longing for death, expertly explained by Mr Magee. He also discusses the other operas with great insight. For instance, in \\"Die Meistersinger\\" (written after \\"Tristan\\") Wagner reverted to his Romantic roots, composing rhymed verse, a quintet, even a ballet. The longest and most interesting chapter is titled \\"Wagner and Nietzsche\\". The philosopher was only 24 when he met Wagner, young enough to be the composer's son, and indeed he became Wagner's somewhat slavish protg. Their strongest point of reference was Schopenhauer, for they both loved \\"The World as Will and Representation\\". Later Nietzsche turned against both Schopenhauer and Wagner, his attacks on the latter (\\"Is Wagner a human being at all? ...a clever rattlesnake\\") becoming irrationally bitter. The deterioration of their relationship was exacerbated by Nietzsche's failing health and the indiscretion of a Frankfurt physician (denounced by Mr Magee as \\"a lightweight, silly fellow\\") who communicated with a layman, Wagner, in a manner that was professionally inappropriate. Obviously, the most difficult aspect of Wagner for an author to deal with is the undeniable anti-Semitism. But Mr Magee emphasizes that this was a fairly common European attitude and was, of course, more than half a century before the Holocaust. He makes a very strong argument against Wagner's popularity with the Nazis, the idea of Wagner's music being \\"a sort of sound track to the Third Reich\\". In fact, he notes, Wagner's popularity in Germany dropped between 1933 and 1940. The anti-Semitic writings are extremely unfortunate, but they can't be taken out of historical context and made to stand for something they were never meant to stand for. Sometimes the prose in \\"The Tristan Chord\\" becomes a little awkward, and there is no bibliography, which would have been interesting. But overall this is a fascinating study of brilliant minds meeting in the 19th Century.	2002-07-16
US	49467311	RO849P72Z2EBM	0684813637	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Second in the hearts of his countrymen	This is David McCullough's second book about an American President and the second also to win the Pulitzer Prize for biography. Like his 1992 epic \\"Truman\\", this life of our 2nd President is filled not only with the man's existence but with the atmosphere of his time. In describing Adams's career from ministerships to the Netherlands, Russia, France and England, to his Vice Presidency and finally to the White House (its first occupant), Mr McCullough gives the reader a Grand Tour of late 18th Century and early 19th Century America and Europe. There are extremely interesting side trips. For instance, when Adams and Thomas Jefferson were in London in 1786 they took a tour of English gardens, and Mr McCullough takes us along with them,including the glories of Stowe and the capabilities of \\"Capabiity\\" Brown.Inconveniences of the age are also described. The term \\"snail mail\\" takes on a new meaning when we read that if Adams sent a letter from Paris to his wife Abigail (in Massachusetts) at Christmastime she may or may not receive it by June. Travel in the Colonies was hit-and-miss, so that public coach itineraries were virtually worthless. It's a wonder the Colonies progressed at all. At 650 pages, Adams's character gets a thorough investigation. Mr McCullough obviously admires both the private citizen and the politician, but he never whitewashes. The Alien and Sedition Acts are laid firmly on Adams's doorstep, and his adamant insistence on employing regal terms (king!) in a new democracy can only be called foolish. The long estrangement between Adams and Jefferson was more Adams's fault than Jefferson's; and Abigail must have had the fortitude of a saint to put up with her husband's long absences, sometimes lasting years. As for his children, one son became 6th President of the United States, of course, but another became an alcoholic failure. Our 2nd President was \\"Not a simple man!\\", as someone said of another American; and Mr McCullough deservedly won the Pulitzer for bringing complicated John Adams to life.	2002-07-04
US	49467311	RW6R7PJJ7RGYW	1889439169	231225219	The Man Who Laughs	Books	4	40	42	N	N	Serious fiction	Victor Hugo's 1868 novel \\"The Man Who Laughs\\" (l'Homme qui rit) is the superb narrative of a young man who, as a child, was abducted, sold and deformed -- obstensibly for profit, but, as it turns out, for dark political reasons as well. To tell too much of Gwynplaine's story is to give away the plot's secrets, though the truth is its key secret is revealed less than 200 pages into the novel. Set in England at the end of the 17th Century and the beginning of the 18th, \\"The Man Who Laughs\\" skewers English aristocracy the way \\"Les Misrables\\" (1862) did French authorities. Gwynplaine's long denunciation in the House of Lords is obviously Hugo speaking, while depictions of the scheming Barkilphedro, the dissolute Lord David Dirry-Moir, and the strange Josiana (whose passive-aggressive sexuality would have fascinated Freud) are reflections of the Stuart dynasty's ugly corruption \\"its features hidden by a mask of joy\\". (Queen Anne herself is dismissed as a fool.) The only pure characters are Dea, a blind woman in love with Gwynplaine, and Homo, a wolf. Even Ursus, the itinerant philosopher, seems to fight his humanity, denying the love he feels for his three companions: the scarred man, the blind woman, and the animal. Why this magnificent novel is not better known is a mystery. One reason, perhaps, is that it would be difficult to dramatize. (There was a 1928 silent film version which is rarely if ever shown.) There have, of course, been several versions of both \\"Les Misrables\\" and \\"The Hunchback of Notre Dame\\", not to mention a megamusical based on the former. Hugo's prolixity and his penchant for sesquipedalian words must make translation an enormous chore, which is why Joseph Blamire's English translation (to my knowledge the only English translation to date) came out a full twenty years after the original publication. For the average 21st Century reader, this is nourishment not easy to digest. Hugo's style is a series of lengthy descriptions and digressions filled with obscure references. I've got one word for you: skim. But don't skim so rapidly that you miss some of the shining epigrams: \\"Aristocracy is proud of what women consider a reproach -- age! Yet both cherish the same illusion, that they do not change.\\" Obviously, this is not junk food. On the contrary, for readers with rich tastes \\"The Man Who Laughs\\" is a literary feast.	2002-06-16
US	49467311	R2YJM43H04FX4V	0865475105	53679096	Son of the Morning Star: Custer and the Little Bighorn	Books	3	10	16	N	N	Father of the Little Big Horn	It was on June 25 1876 that the military debacle known as the Battle of the Little Big Horn occurred, when that American enigma General George Armstrong Custer led his troops into a Sioux trap that left more than 200 men, including Custer, dead. Detractors Custer never lacked (his memoir &quot;My Life on the Plains&quot; was derided as &quot;My Lie on the Plains&quot;); and there are historians, armchair and otherwise, who consider Custer directly and solely responsible for that fatal Sunday afternoon. Evan S Connell used this famous tragedy as the basis for his 1984 non-fiction bestseller &quot;Son of the Morning Star: Custer and the Little Big Horn&quot;. Because Connell is a novelist, you'd expect his re-telling to have a great deal of smooth tension, but I found the narrative loose and choppy. Though there are some startling passages (including a description of how it feels to be scalped), the overall effect is too scattered to leave a lasting impression. Custer himself, obviously a bold subject, enters the story almost diffidently, his colorful personality revealed by fits and starts. There are too many pages devoted to the other officers at the campaign, none of them as intriguing as &quot;Ringlets&quot; or &quot;Iron Butt&quot;, to name two of Custer's less heroic sobriquets. Equally digressive but more pertinent are the profiles of Custer's two great adversaries Crazy Horse and Sitting Bull. In fact, readers may find that one of the most attractive features of &quot;Son of the Morning Star&quot; is the space given the Native Americans and their dilemma. Connell describes frankly the cavalry sorties in which villages were destroyed, women and children were killed. After one such foray, 100 Cheyenne scalps were displayed on the stage of a Denver theatre to a rapturous audience causing an anonymous Britisher to observe that &quot;America might be the only nation in history to have slipped from a primitive estate into decadence without ever knowing civilization&quot;. Ouch! Sharp passages like this prick the reader's interest, but a more consistent tone would have held his attention throughout.	2001-06-17
US	49467311	R34UFPYHWT7TSI	0140390847	551860371	Moby-Dick: or, The Whale (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Call me Crazy, but I love this novel	Like so many great works of art, Herman Melville's 1851 &quot;Moby Dick&quot; is a universe unto itself, the relentlessly rolling, salt-thrashed universe of the Pequod, a seabound whaler. I would advise any first-time reader of &quot;Moby Dick&quot; to give himself plenty of time to get through this book, cetology and all, say 4 to 6 weeks. It's also a good idea to have a passing knowledge of maritime terminology: to know the bow from the stern, what a bowsprit is, a capstan and a shroud. Because Melville was a sailor for so many years, he assumes his professional jargon will be understood. He was also a well-read man, and &quot;Moby Dick&quot; is filled with historical and mythological references. (Quick! Who was King Porus?) It's best to keep a one-volume encyclopedia handy. The story itself is populated with mysterious characters: Ishmael is the narrator who never fully reveals himself -- and who recounts scenes he couldn't very likely have seen. Then there's Bulkington, the mariner who is only seen from a distance, but who receives his own special apotheosis,then disappears. Captain Ahab's wife is described as &quot;a sweet, resigned girl&quot;, but the Biblical Ahab's wife Jezebel was a scheming pagan. Does Ahab have a dark family secret? The first time Ahab himself is mentioned, the Pequod's owner calls him &quot;a grand, ungodly, god-like man&quot;, and his long-awaited first appearance has all the drama of a Shakespearean entrance. (He's been compared to Lear and Prospero, not to mention Marlowe's Doctor Faustus.) And when the title creature appears, he's more than a whale, he's a world. Ahab against the world -- it's a theme that inspires one dazzling chapter after another: Chapter LXX, Ahab's Aristotelian contemplation of a severed whale's head. Chapter LXIV, the cook's strange sermon to voracious sharks. Chapter XCIV, with its mind-boggling homoeroticism. Chapter CXXXII, with its beautiful comparison of sky and sea. The language becomes quite rich. Here'sAhab at the height of his obsession: &quot; ... supper he never touched; nor reaped his beard; which darkly grew all gnarled, as unearthed roots of trees blown over, which still grow idly on at naked base, though perished in the upper verdure.&quot; Readers have called &quot;Moby Dick&quot; difficult, bizarre, and boring. Is it difficult? Yes. Is it bizarre? Actually, it's probably one of the most bizarre books ever written. Is it boring? Only if you're not willing to accept the literary conventions of a hundred and fifty years ago, before there were telephones, radio, movies and television. The long descriptions and digressions are a part of the universe Melville created in &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. If you're bored with slasher thrillers and political potboilers, you'll be fascinated by this masterpiece of American fiction.	2001-06-12
US	49467311	R1P51W6L6ILI2A	0375753214	843633553	Sister Carrie (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Money and manners,  la Dreiser	&quot;Sister Carrie&quot;, first published 100 years ago, is Theodore Dreiser's ironic story of the acquisition and loss of wealth in a country devoted to commerce and pleasure. No one ever accused Dreiser of being sparkling -- one of my reference books calls him &quot;ponderous&quot; -- but he had the strength of his convictions, and he was convinced that American materialism was the root of American unhappiness. Caroline Meeber is a country mouse who, coming to Chicago in search of work, is pounced upon by big-city cats, including a flashy traveling salesman straight out of back-room jokes. When Charles Drouet seduces Carrie, it seems more like he's adopting a pet, she's so innocently compliant. And when she becomes involved with his friend George Hurstwood, it seems incredible she doesn't suspect that this middle-aged affluent man is probably married (or that Drouet doesn't reveal it to her long before he does). It is Hurstwood's abandonment of his family and embezzlement from his employers that is the plot's turning point. With his stolen money, Hurstwood and Carrie escape to New York, he to ultimate destitution, she to stardom on the stage. All this is interesting but terribly dry, like flowers pressed in a book. The main problem in &quot;Sister Carrie&quot; is Carrie herself, who's such a passive character it's difficult to feel much for her. Even her success in the theatre seems to just sort of happen. (But, a reader may ask, if Carrie is so boring, how does she become a popular star? Well, turn on prime time TV for ten minutes and there's your answer.) Of course, there is no guarantee that Carrie's alluring situation is going to last -- I kept thinking of Evelyn Nesbit Thaw -- and Dreiser only hints at the fine line between stage work and prostitution a century ago. &quot;Sister Carrie&quot; is worth reading because it's a serious novel of life in a dichotomous society. Dreiser details with equal skill the drudgery of daily toil (not to mention the search for daily toil) and the glittering pursuits of those who can afford Michigan Boulevard and Fifth Avenue. If his style seems a little -- well, ponderous -- it should be remembered he was writing strictly from the brain. Dreiser really seemed to have no warm sympathy for the vagaries of capitalism.	2001-03-01
US	49467311	R33F6CEVFWGNNY	0553211439	997665202	A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court (Bantam Classics)	Books	3	12	21	N	N	An American Cynic in Dystopia	Mark Twain's satiric fantasy &quot;A Connecticut Yankee in King Arthur's Court&quot; sets up the premise of a 19th Century American being transported (via the application of a crowbar to his skull) to the legendary Camelot, where he initially suffers culture shock in the extreme. The novel's immediately obvious flaw (and I assume Mark Twain was aware of it but simply ignored it) is the 19th Century hero's ability to communicate with Britons of the 6th Century. They, of course, would have been speaking an English similar to that in &quot;Beowulf&quot;; the book has them talking like characters in &quot;Hamlet&quot;. The opening chapters are comic in mood, complete with limp jokes. (When one character introduces himself as a page, the Yankee replies: &quot;Go 'long, you ain't more than a paragraph.&quot; Oh, Lord.) However, the story quickly becomes dark and then increasingly darker. The degraded condition of the masses (which the modern hero compares to 18th Century France) culminates in a tour (with King Arthur disguised as a peasant) of a oountryside corrupted by monarchy and the Church, both of which were loathed by Mark Twain. Feminists should be warned that the author's misogyny is given free rein here: all the ladies of the court are thoughtless twits, and Morgan Le Fay is a shrew who habitually and casually kills her servants. The heroine Alisande (who, of course, becomes Sandy) is a tiresome chatterbox, whom the hero abruptly marries as a sort of social condescension. But his attitude towards women is merely a part of his general misanthropy, leading him to write at one point: &quot;Well, there are times when one would like to hang the whole human race and finish the farce.&quot; Once the protagonist has established himself as Arthur's right-hand man (he's called &quot;The Boss&quot;), he exercises his Yankee ingenuity to industrialize the realm. With the genius of Gutenberg, Morse and Bell at his disposal, he sets up a newspaper and introduces the telegraph and the telephone to the Middle Ages. (Just how he devises the technology to accomplish this is not made too clear.) At any rate, The Boss is considered a great wizard, and Merlin (or Brer Merlin, as the Yankee calls him) is treated like a fraudulent fool. Motivating all this is a somewhat smug sense of 19th Century superiority. Actually, the Yankee goes beyond his own century and into the 1900's. When Guenever's treason causes the civil war which divides Britain, The Boss drills a group of cadets (his West Pointers, he calls them) that he leads off to battle against the anti-Arthurian knighthood. The result is a blood bath presciently and repulsively similar to the trench warfare of 1914-1918. (The novel was published in 1889.) If this is meant to be an indication of future efficiency, it's an extremely pessimistic vision. But then, the whole story is Mark Twain's gloomy statement on Mankind's uneasy place in a dysfunctional world, be it the Dark Ages or the somber present.and the telephone to the Middle Ages. (Just how he devises the technology to accomplish this is not made too clear.) At any rate, The Boss is considered a great wizard, and Merlin (or Brer Merlin, as the Yankee calls him) is treated like a fraudulent fool. Motivating all this is a somewhat smug sense of 19th Century superiority. Actually, the Yankee goes beyond his own century and into the 1900's. When Guenever's treason causes the civil war which divides Britain, The Boss drills a group of cadets (his West Pointers, he calls them) that he leads off to battle against the anti-Arthurian knighthood. The result is a blood bath presciently and repulsively similar to the trench warfare of 1914-1918. (The novel was published in 1889.) If this is meant to be an indication of future efficiency, it's an extremely pessimistic vision. But then, the whole story is Mark Twain's gloomy statement on Mankind's uneasy place in a dysfunctional world, be it the Dark Ages or the somber present.	2001-01-06
US	49467311	R3J02UNA2P1ZHD	0844662925	488116612	Johnstown Flood	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A good introduction to a great historian	On May 31 1889 the Pennsylvania mining community of Johnstown was suffering a heavy rain, which was not unusual: the area had often been hit by floods in the past. But what happened on that particular day was one of the most devastating tragedies in American history. Johnstown was at the valley confluence of two currents, the Conemaugh River and Stony Creek. Fifteen miles upland was a large dam holding back a reservoir called Conemaugh Lake. On this lake a group of wealthy Pittsburgh industrialists (including Andrew Carnegie) had built a vacation resort, the lake itself being used primarily for sailing. (The site was a Sunday excursion for Johnstown citizens.) The safety of the earthwork dam had long been questioned by both the owners of the resort and the Johnstown Tribune. The danger signals had been tolerated. But on that Friday afternoon, as the heavy rains continued, the dam &quot;simply moved away&quot;; and 20 million tons of water were released, pouring down into the valley below. After several miles, the water had become a forty-foot high wave, filled with the debris of smashed houses, boxcars, and uprooted trees. When this inland tsunami crashed into Johnstown it created almost total destruction (which took roughly ten minutes), causing $17 million in property damage and a death toll of 2,200. (I was surprised to learn that this potential for a blockbuster has been fictionalized on the screen only once, as a silent film in 1926.) The American historian David G McCullough used this story for his first published book &quot;The Johnstown Flood&quot; in 1968. Though not on a scale with his later histories, this is a fascinating account of a calamity waiting to happen, the terrible consequences, and the bitter aftermath. Mr McCullough likes BIG stories -- e.g. enormous construction projects (&quot;The Great Bridge&quot;) and pivotal lives (&quot;Truman&quot;, for which he won the Pulitzer Prize). Already, in this early work, he displays his ability to contrasthuman pathos with spectacle. Brisk yet in carefully-researched detail, the narrative runs smoothly from the opening exposition, through the deluge, to the quietly sorrowful ending. His chapter headings sound almost like a plot synopsis: Sailboats on the mountain ... Rush of the torrent ... &quot;Run for your lives!&quot; ... In the valley of death. The book is illustrated with contemporary photographs and drawings, many of them concentrating on the incredible demolition. There is also a list of the victims of the flood, in many cases whole families. I'm not sure how many books have been written on this famous disaster, but certainly none could be more compellng than Mr McCullough's.	2001-01-05
US	49467311	RPRHCEIXWB1IZ	0140430903	741785657	Barnaby Rudge (Penguin English Library)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Dickens' Other Historical Novel	When one says &quot;Charles Dickens&quot; and &quot;historical novel&quot; in the same sentence, the immediate impression is of the French Revolution adventure &quot;A Tale of Two Cities&quot;. But Dickens wrote another historical novel 18 years before, in 1841, the complex and colorful &quot;Barnaby Rudge&quot;, set during London's anti-Papal riots of June 1780, when there was a reaction against the Catholic influence in Parliament. Populated by a large cast and activated by a plot of intrigue and danger, it is one of the best of Dickens in his early period. In fact, it is perhaps Dickens' most under-rated work. As usual with Dickens, the characters find themselves in a labyrinth of relationships. Sir John Chester is an impoverished habitu who tells his handsome son he expects the young man to insure the family fortune in the time-honored tradition of decadent nobility: by marrying money. &quot;With regard to our circumstances, Ned, you may set your mind at rest upon that score. They are desperate.&quot; His son is appalled, the more so as he is in love with Emma, the daughter of a country gentleman, Geoffrey Haredale, Sir John's moral opposite. Running parallel to this love story is that of Joe Willet, the good-hearted son of John Willet, the proprietor of the Maypole Inn, where much of the action takes place. Joe is courting the daughter of Gabriel Varden, an honest, hard-working locksmith, a proletarian hero. (Originally he was the book's title character.) Gabriel's daughter Dolly, Joe's inamorata, is one of those human cookies so adored by Victorian England. (All through the 19th Century articles of clothing were named after her: the Dolly Varden bonnet, the Dolly Varden cape, etc.) Touching these families is Barnaby Rudge himself, a strange,  simple-minded boy whose navet leads him into joining the rebellion led by the Protestant radical Lord George Gordon, who also appears as a minor character. Barnaby's constant companion is a talking raven; their conversations sound like vaudeville routines. His mother hides one of those dark family mysteries Dickens used so suspensefully in &quot;Oliver Twist&quot;; and this theme is reflected in Sir John Chester's secret: he is the illegitimate father of ... the story's least likely character. The novel is filled with Dickensian trademarks: ironic drama, an odd sense of humor, and, of course, strong sentimentality. With the bloody Gordon riots as a climax, &quot;Barnaby Rudge&quot;, elaborate and absorbing, is an impressive predecessor to Dickens' better-known tale of the Reign of Terror.	2000-12-20
US	49467311	R2WZK9A4DH2YXL	0848807952	275235074	Of Lena Geyer	Books	4	34	34	N	N	Wunderfrau	The mysterious nature of an artistic gift, how it affects those who possess it and those who surround them, is a theme that has inspired many a plot, &quot;Amadeus&quot; being one of the best. Marcia Davenport's superb 1936 novel &quot;Of Lena Geyer&quot; has for its heroine a soprano of spectacular talent, a woman who casts a brilliant spell over her admirers, the ones who adore her unquestioningly as well as those who challenge her. It's not surprising that this was one of Ingrid Bergman's favorite books; she tried for years, unsuccessfully, to have it produced on the screen. The story opens with Lena Geyer's funeral; and the various mourners remember what they know of Lena Geyer, so that the plot unfolds as a series of post-mortem reminiscences. Most of the memories are generous, though this complicated artist's temper and prejudices are frankly described. Lenzka Gyruzkova is a dumpy Bohemian adolescent, a charwoman's daughter, when musically-trained men recognize in her a quick ear and a radiant voice. She masters roles easily, and she eventually becomes an important star in both Europe and America. Her repertoire is formidable, everything from Carmen to Isolde. Though she engages in a passionate, jealous affair with a man of incredible wealth, her marriage is to a protective father figure. In fact, she resembles Maria Callas; but Callas was only thirteen when &quot;Of Lena Geyer&quot; was published. Like so many real-life divas, Lena has many physical problems, and she does not enjoy a long life. But her death bed is surrounded by her devotees, who see her breathing the last words of the Liebestod: &quot; ... ertrinken, versinken unbewusst h&ouml;chste Lust!&quot; The novel is deceptively biographical (you'll find yourself thumbing back to an index that doesn't exist) and technically historical, because the fictional Lena interacts with people who really lived: Lilli Lehmann is her advanced teacher, Mahler conducts when Lena sings Donna Anna in &quot;Don Giovanni&quot;, and Jean de Reszke is her co-star in &quot;Tannh&auml;user&quot;. Needless to say, &quot;Of Lena Geyer&quot; is a cult favorite with opera buffs, but the average reader will certainly be able to appreciate this expertly written novel. A Trivia Pursuit footnote: &quot;Of Lena Geyer&quot; is dedicated to Alma Gluck, a Met soprano of the First World War era (who, incidently, is mentioned in fictional context). As it turns out, Alma Gluck was Marcia Davenport's mother. I have no idea who Mr Davenport was, but Alma Gluck's second husband was the violinist Efrem Zimbalist, with whom she toured in concert. This means that Marcia Davenport, the author, was the half-sister of Efrem Zimbalist Jr, the TV and film actor.	2000-12-11
US	49467311	R33HFR7L69OWYB	0670891584	135041995	Herman Melville	Books	4	13	15	N	N	A writer of a whale, and vice versa	Next year I'm taking a trip to a famaliar yet vaguely forbidding American landmark. In other words, I'm planning to re-read &quot;Moby Dick&quot;. To prepare myself for this metaphysical adventure, I wanted to read something that would refresh my memory regarding this novel and its author; and Viking Press offers Elizabeth Hardwick's &quot;Herman Melville&quot;, published last summer as part of that house's Penquin Lives Series. It's an eclectic series, the subjects ranging from Joan of Arc to Elvis Presley. Ms Hardwick's contribution is not a biography per se (there are no plates and there is no index) but rather a set of essays combining Melville's personal experiences with the art he created. In fact, many of the chapter headings are titles of Melville's stories -- e.g., &quot;Redburn&quot; or &quot;Billy Budd&quot;. Reading these chapters inspires one to take up the Meville the reader may have put aside &quot;till later&quot;. The two longest chapters are devoted to &quot;Moby Dick&quot; and to Hawthorne, to whom the masterpiece is dedicated. Despite its brevity, (161 pages), Ms Hardwick's book follows Melville's life closely, from his voyages as a young man to his forty-four-year long marriage (which Ms Hardwick compares to Tolstoy's) and ending with his nineteen-year servitude at the New York Custom House. Heavy his marriage was (one of his sons committed suicide, the other became adrifter)...Ms Hardwick's succinct yet complex narrative is smoothlywritten, and she has a way with words (she calls &quot;Moby Dick&quot;a &quot;gorgeous phantasmagoria&quot;.) But for a reader who just needs an outrigger against the mammoth &quot;Moby Dick&quot;, Ms Hardwick's slim but strong volume offers appropriate support.	2000-10-31
US	49467311	R2OSW4ZE9VT0SL	0881846465	605647343	A Criminal History of Mankind	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Human nature at its darkest	I had read only one book by Colin Wilson (&quot;The Outsider&quot;, of course) when I found a paperback in a used-book store. There followed a month of fairly intense reading, because &quot;A Criminal History of Mankind&quot; is fascinating from beginning to end, and many sections I read over again. Wilson divides the book into three main sections: 1) The Psychology of Human Violence 2) A Criminal Outline of History 3) The Age of Mass Murder. In the first section, Wilson notes that criminal actions have been motivated by the &quot;hierarchy of needs&quot;:food, shelter, sex, and the need for admiration. (In recent years, we have seen those who commit murder in order to gain fame.) Wilson describes what he calls the &quot;right man&quot;, a sociopath obsessed with image and self-esteem. Most of these people are life's losers, but not all. A startling exception is the successful comic actor Peter Sellers, whose son's biography shows Sellers to have been almost criminal in his manic, morbidly obsessive nature. The second section is, by Wilson's own admission, H.G. Wells' &quot;Outline of History&quot; from a criminal point of view, everything from ancient Athens to Victorian London. Interestingly, Wilson writes: &quot;This book is centrally concerned with crime; but if we ignore the creativity, we shall not only fail to understand the crime: we shall miss the whole point of human history.&quot; The third section goes into our own era, the Bundys, the DeSalvos, the Mansons. Wilson spends a full 50 blood-drenched pages on the Mafia. The book, published in 1984, touches only briefly on the disturbing increase of children who kill. Along with the horrors, there are pages of incisive philosophy: &quot;It is true that we cannot live without an ego; a person without an ego is little more than an idiot. Another name for ego is personality, and in artists, saints, and philosophers, the personality is a most valuable tool. Neither St Francis nor Beethoven nor Plato would have achieved much impact without their personalities. But the personality is a dangerous servant, for it has a perpetual hankering to become the master. Every time we are carried away by irritation or indignation, personality has mastered us.&quot;Violence will always be with us. A casual glance at yesterday's New York Times finds the coverage of a man who threw his baby from a 15-story window while bickering with his wife. But Wilson ends his riveting book with cautious optimism: Referring to the criminal as a distortion of humanity, he writes (and quotes the German poet Novalis) that when humanity itself is aware that this is only a nightmare, we are close to awakening.	2000-10-19
US	49467311	R3LZOY2P5VV3TB	0140434704	205100834	Romola (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	42	43	N	N	Great Historical Fiction	George Eliot spent two years preparing &quot;Romola&quot;, and the result is a rich, densely detailed &quot;Tale of the Renaissance&quot;.  Never a facile writer, here she is concerned with one of the most intellectually  challenging (not to mention politically complicated) periods in history;  and she paints the panoply and power struggles as a background for the  personal tragedy which is the novel's crux.  While not an &quot;easy  read&quot; in the Sir Walter Scott sense, &quot;Romola&quot; presents in  sumptous detail the banquets, the festivities, and the famous bonfire of  vanities that one associates with late 15th Century Florence.But from a  purely literary viewpoint, the most important thing about the book is its  delineation of Tito Melema, the young man who in the opening chapters is  the story's hero, but slowly, irrevocably becomes its villain. Neither Sir  Walter nor Charles Dickens has psychological insight (in the modern sense)  as sharp as George Eliot's, and this study of a fictional character's  downfall is one of the most stunning depictions of corruption in English  literature. That he is the husband of the heroine, a sensitive, finely  sensual woman, makes the tragedy all the more poignant.  Scenes involving  historical characters (including Savonarola and Machiavelli) tend to be a  little stiff in costume movie style.  Oh, and because the story takes place  in the 1490's, one must imagine the Piazza della Signoria without  Michelangelo and Cellini. This must really have frustrated a connoisseur  like George Eliot.	2000-07-08
