US	49465206	RNFGR3CES94TZ	0385497709	548814469	London: The Biography	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Matter of London	In London three writers are closely associated as starting the so-called 'psychogeography' movement, essentially a romantic movement which understands that human beings leave their stories in the earth and stones of their environment.  The three writers are Michael Moorcock (whose Gloriana and Mother London are acknowledged influences on Ackroyd) Iain Sinclair (whose Lud Heat inspired Hawksmoor and whose Downriver is usually cited with Mother London as one of the two finest modern London novels) and Peter Ackroyd (whose Dickens, Blake and Eliot biographies are masterpieces of their kind, bringing life and imagination, as well as inspired insight, to their subjects).  These three giants are best read in conjunction.  They are all fascinated with popular entertainment and incorporate it into their work -- the London music hall fascinates Ackroyd (Dan Leno, for instance) and Moorcock (from The Cornelius Quartet to London Bone) has used it to great effect. These are not modernist writers, yet they look back to a Victorian past as much as they employ techniques usually called 'post-modern', and they represent an important and in recent years rather overlooked strand in the English romantic canon.  Ackroyd's London is as much a fantasy as his Dickens -- and for that reason it is far more real than any dry-as-dust retailing of facts and figures.  He brings a London to life that is as vital as Dickens and as real as Gissing and it is a London I know and love as much as the ordinary, grey run-of-the-mill South London suburb I lived in for nearly twenty years.  It is why you stay living there, because you can feel the same ghosts as Ackroyd feels, hear the same voices, sense the same history, and this book brings it all back.  Vivid, enthusiastic, celebratory, I can't recommend this too much.  But try the other two of this modern 'triumvirate' -- you'll be rewarded by Mother London and Downriver more than you could possibly imagine!  This is London, warts and all, but she still pulls you in as fast as a <BR>Dickens novel.  Get this for someone you like for their generosity.  It will be a fair reward!	2001-12-21
US	49465206	R144CPTL8Q4YO8	1565041968	81644402	Corum: The Coming of Chaos (Tr) *OP (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Tired of Tolkein clones, sick of Potter copies ?	Moorcock began his fantasy writing career young, in the 1950s, around the same time as Lord of the Rings and Gormenghast were published. His interest in fantasy predated his reading of either sequence.  He quotes such writers as Twain and Cabell as influences.   It's clear, however,  that Moorcock writes more in the Peake tradition than the Tolkien and, if you want a combination of the virtues of both writers, you'll find it here.  Moorcock loves language and his books are enriched by it.  You don't need 800 pages to get the message across!  In Europe he is honored as an important literary writer.  These novels are a great writer enjoying himself. Moorcock has said that he only writes fantasy novels if he can enjoy himself.   Even now in his new Elric books Moorcock is still keeping them short and fast.  Why the books have depth is because of the superior writing, with  characteristic ironies and elegaic tone, fresh quality of invention, strong structuring, using 'image as narrative', the underlying philosophy which is never shoved in your face, but makes you think, the characters, who have strong motivations and crises. Moorcock doesn't world-build, any more than he bothers with invented alphabets and other somewhat nerdy occupations.  He is a story teller and nothing extraneous is allowed to get in the way of that first priority.  (...) <br />These stories are set in Cornwall, easily identified by the use of original Cornish (Celtic) names.  This year I visited 'Moidel's Mount' and its<BR>wonderful, impregnable castle, which, apart from the town now on the other shore, is exactly as Moorcock describes it, only it's called St Michael's Mount and is across from Marazion in Cornwall.  The Scilly Isles also feature, though in the Moorcock books they are still attached to the mainland.  This is real<BR>Arthurian territory, but Moorcock makes no reference to it.  He is busy inventing his own mythology.  He is steeped in Celtic and Norse mythology, which he also claims as a strong influence on Corum and Elric respectively.<BR>Moorcock says in his introduction that he came up with the Corum stories during a wet vacation in Cornwall.  All I can say is, thank goodness it rains in Cornwall (and how it rains!).  This is a fine, intelligent, fast read.  It won't tax your mind, but it will leave it a little richer when you're done.  I'm very choosey<BR>about the kind of fantasy I read and this, believe me, is amongst the very best you'll find.	2001-12-02
US	49465206	R3IU02H7KC5F8T	0886771757	553982582	Jewel in the Skull (History of the Runestaff)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The first and still the best	The vigor and richness of the writing, the ironic sub-texts and use of current political and entertainment figures of the day, the fact that each of the four books in the series took three days to write (i.e. the whole thing took twelve days) and were not taken with any great seriousness by the author, make these the first and the best.  David Eddings, Robert Jordan and the rest simply don't have the raw genius to produce throw-away books of this quality.  Moorcock wrote these, like the Kane novels, as an homage to his childhood pulp enthusiasms and they have inspired rafts and rafts of imitators.  This is the first book of the set now generally available as HAWKMOON, which are nice editions and rather better value than buying the books individually.  They are also introduced and lightly revised by Moorcock who has said many times that these early fantasy books were like the early days of rock and roll -- you were experimenting as you worked and your main job was to keep the audience dancing.  Hawkwind and their Chronicles albums came out of this series, too.  However many authors have taken their buckets to Moorcock's well, they can never drain him of his originality, his vitality and his sheer, glorious intelligence.	2001-11-30
US	49465206	R2GWYWUWRNWMME	0517571838	144087991	Mother London	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Security and stimulation at the same time!	I too picked this up in London, where it's commonly available along with the paperback of King of the City, and while I am not a Londoner, I felt I was one after reading the book.  If you read this and Peter Ackroyd's LONDON; A BIOGRAPHY you will have a tremendous sense not only of the city's living history, but of her contemporary heart.  A great city, largely free from violence and the problems which trouble our American cities, and one that is constantly changing with fresh waves of immigration.  This is a book primarily about human beings -- and very fine human beings most of them prove to be.  Heartening, intelligent, with a sharp eye for human wickedness, as well as virtue.  (...) Read it over Christmas if you can.  It will remind you of Dickens and you will feel a whole lot better about the world, in spite of its troubles. It ends with a big party.  You will love it.	2001-11-30
US	49465206	R3FELBBSTQA24Z	1587154366	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen: The Book of Ambergris	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Rare and wonderful	If you like E.A.Poe, Lord Dunsany, Mervyn Peake, the Jack Vance of Dying Earth, the Michael Moorcock of Gloriana and Dancers at the End of Time, the M.John Harrison of In Viriconium, the J.G.Ballard of Vermilion Sands -- you'll be able to add this to your shelf of favorites for reading and re-reading.  Atmospheric, dreamlike, intelligent.  This is one of the very best of the literary fantasy writers. VanderMeer's rep. has been growing apace and this is a great introduction to his strange world of Ambergris. A fine, original work.	2001-11-30
US	49465206	R5182VBZZVPI3	1862072078	751061341	Lud Heat: And Suicide Bridge	Books	5	18	20	N	N	A must for anyone interested in modern UK literature.	This book is particularly interesting because it is probably the first book using what Sinclair later came to call 'psychogeography', an obsession he shares with his two close friends Michael Moorcock and Peter Ackroyd.  Ackroyd made very free use of this book for his own splendid supernatural mystery story Hawkwsmoor and Moorcock introduces it, offering his own spin on the talented Mr Sinclair, as well as a few passing amiable swipes at half his famous contemporaries.  Ackroyd's own riffs on Doctor Dee and a Platonic view of London (both from<BR>Moorcock's own fantastic London novel Gloriana) find echoes in Sinclair's rich reflections on the underlying sense of a city's history reflected in her earth, stones and architecture, written when he was still working as a municipal gardener in London's East End.  What Sinclair and Moorcock offer is the raw stuff of their own experience and observation whereas Ackroyd's views are slightly more academic, more enthusiastic at a distance than close-up.  But all three writers should be read together to get a sense of another, very different, strand of English fiction which occasionally feeds the imaginations of people like Rushdie, Amis and Self but is hardly recognised in its own right as a vigorous and ultimately far richer canon.   This kind of literature has little to do with the consumer age and is built solidly to last, I'd guess, a few centuries.  Get this as an introduction to Sinclair and the school of writers he represents, but get Downriver to enjoy him at his finest.	2001-11-30
US	49465206	R1BD68ZY0Z5MQA	0575045280	873552970	Casablanca	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Arab Question	This book was published in 1989 and reprints much of Moorcock's work from the previous two or three years, much of it journalism. <BR>What's really remarkable is that in 1987 Moorcock was warning about our relationship with the Arab world, our failures to recognise and understand its culture and manners.  This book isn't that hard to get in the UK second hand.  I don't think the essays (there is also a lot of material on Moorcock's strongly<BR>held feminist views) have ever been reprinted anywhere else.<BR>Moorcock's recent Cornelius stories have shown how finely tuned he is to world events -- some of them have an uncanny prescience.<BR>This is where the Reminiscences of the Third World War first appeared, too, along with The Great Rock and Roll Swindle which Moorcock wrote in collaboration with the Sex Pistols.  This is a writer who has made it his business to go to the places and events which are amongst the most crucial to this century -- whether it be his immersion in the world of sex, drugs and rock and roll, or his respectful fascination with the world of Islam.<BR>If you want to know the concerns of the next ten years, don't read the 'futurists', read Moorcock, who has always insisted he is merely recording his own experience.  This is a key Moorcock title but the short stories were swiftly collected elsewhere and it's a great shame we can't get the essays any more.  Someone should publish a book of Moorcock's political and literary essays, including his profiles of Andrea Dworkin, Harlan Ellison, Maeve Peake and Angus Wilson which appear here, too.  I'd like to see a copy of The Retreat from Liberty, his long political essay which predicted the fall of Thatcher and the decay of the Tory<BR>Party in the UK.  He also predicted how the USA would become increasingly dysfunctional as less and less real information got through to the US public through their common media.  In a less self-centered age, Moorcock would be hailed as the modern H.G.Wells.  Get this bookand find out why!	2001-11-30
US	49465206	R20ZGW5BN23PFL	0380780798	142828262	The War Amongst the Angels	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Beautiful and breathtaking!	This is one of the richest of Moorcock's novels, full of different themes and relationships, in which he makes increasingly explicit his vision of the multiverse.  It is the culmination of the first two books in the series, Blood and Fabulous Harbors.  It raises all kinds of philosophical questions about the nature of identity and our ideas about time.  It has a love story and several autobiographical elements and, unlike a previous reviewer, I found this one of the best and most original books Mr Moorcock has yet written.  The ending certainly makes reference to Milton, but it seems to be an argument with Milton, rather as Gloriana was an argument with Spencer.  Moorcock's great talent, since he began with Elric and The Sundered Worlds, is to inhabit the genre itself and bust it open from the inside out. He doesn't borrow from Milton -- he sets up a dialogue with him!   Everything he does, including the Bastable and Pyat novels, is an intervention in an existing genre, stereotype or cultural assumption.  War Amongst The Angels is one of the richest and most visually mind-blowing books Moorcock, who has already established his own bench-marks, has ever given us.  It is nothing less than a masterpiece.	2001-11-28
US	49465206	R3RBBR16RQ140Q	1565049942	953630464	The Dancers At The End Of Time (Eternal Champion Series, Vol. 10)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Delicious and original	Most people don't know Moorcock invented the Multiverse.  That is he invented the concept (along with the idea of black holes and a fair bit of Chaos Theory) around 1960 in the otherwise unremarkable The Sundered Worlds (The Blood Red Game).  In fact Moorcock has contributed so many fundamental ideas to the fantasy and graphic novel genres, as well as to the general literary world and the scientific world that it's a wonder he isn't claiming copyright fees off half the stuff that's out there.  This was probably the first fully-fledged space-time opera comedy and it's easy to see why Douglas Adams and Terry Pratchett admired it so much.  Some of these ideas even turned up in Douglas Adams's Doctor Who stories (check them out!).  It has been Moorcock's lot to be a seminal force in our modern culture and to have other people get the credit!  I doubt if this bothers him much since he is so inventive he probably doesn't have time to brood on it, but I have been reading him for a long time now and it really is astonishing how many ideas he's had which are now in common use and part of the language.  This is one of his most joyous series, celebrating the styles of Oscar Wilde and Aubrey Beardsley and as well as being outstanding science fiction (about the nature of time and identity) it is a loving homage to the fin-de-siecle.<BR>Gosh, Moorcock, I wish I'd said that.  You will, Adams.  You will.  Unreservedly recommended.	2001-11-11
US	49465206	R39IQYU09I32T3	0446526185	794065394	The Dreamthief's Daughter: A Tale of the Albino	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Good Elric movie!	Reading this, I thought what a great first Elric movie it would make.  It starts in recognizeable history, then moves into weird fantasy worlds, then back into the real world.  I know Mr Moorcock is famous for refusing to let Elric be filmed until the 'right' maker comes along, but this would really work great and maybe he could get Brad Pitt back to play him (rumor was Pitt was interested in doing Elric a few years back).  Pitt would now make a great Elric of Melnibone!  Think of Pitt when you read this and you'll see what I mean!  With all the other movies coming out, surely it's time we got our Elric movie now!  Please!	2001-11-03
US	49465206	RCIFW7Z6KE52T	0380975890	537308861	King of the City	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Breathtaking!	This is nothing less than modern Dickens.  A kind of Great Expectations for our post-modern times.  It's amazing.  It's<BR>a whole different level of writing.  All I can say is -- read<BR>it and see what I mean!	2001-11-03
US	49465206	R2R6YAR4ISW73J	0441888054	972695419	The Weird of the White Wolf (Elric Saga)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Great stuff!	I guess Elric has stolen my soul, but then I guess I had a soul to steal.  That's what these books have.  Like good rock and roll, they have SOUL!  And nothing can give you that, if you can't get it.   Moorcock has never dealt in junk.  He keeps his readers by constantly surprising them.  These stories, written forty years ago, inspired a genre as much as LOTR and you can see echoes of them in almost every fantasy book written from McAffery to Pullman.  Many of those authors acknowledge their debt and Moorcock is one of the most respected writer's writers around (I know, I'm a writer).  These are early stories, written when he was scarcely out of his teens, and they still have more vitality than the majority of thin-blooded imitators who followed him.	2001-10-31
US	49465206	RB9V1DYYJO88J	0441748635	814190163	The Sailor on the Seas of Fate (Elric Saga)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Not an escape route	Moorcock wrote in one of his books about how his fantasy novels were intended to confront various personal and human problems, not escape from them.  So many of the recent reviews of Elric stories are from people who seem to think they 'fail' by not having the same intentions as fat fantasy escapes.  Like Peake and to some extent T.H.White, they are the very opposite of that kind of fiction.  They deal with real life, real tragedy, real human concerns.  There is almost a division between fantasy readers who use Tolkien as their bench-mark and those who prefer a more literary, symbolic fantasy which concerns itself with the stuff of mythology -- monumental events stemming from the weaknesses of human passion.  That's what Moorcock gives you every time.  But it's closer, in some ways, to what the mainstream literary novel offers and that is why Moorcock only offers comfort when he's confronted the harsh realities of our lives.  Perhaps this is why there is such an aggressive response to his material ?	2001-10-31
US	49465206	R1WLJI68PPNUC4	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the top must-read fantasy series	Moorcock's literary fantasy models tend to share more with Peake and T.H.White than Tolkien and people who expect a version of The Lord of the Rings are often disappointed, if LoTR-type fantasy is all they read.  However, if you like Graham Joyce, Jonathan Carroll and M.John Harrison -- if you read Le Guin and Russ for their arguments as well as their invention -- if you have an engagement with the political world -- if you love romantic language and characters -- if you don't like sentimental Disney-type movies -- if you do like warm stories about human courage and pain -- then you'll probably like Moorcock a whole lot!  Read Elric of Melnibone and his latest King of the City if you want to get some idea of the astonishing range and career of this literary giant!  The same jackhammer prose for forty years!	2001-10-31
US	49465206	R14JBJ0HC2OG2N	156504195X	143770033	5: Elric: Song of the Black Sword (Tr) *OP (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Still the best	I read some of the Elric books when they first appeared and have been rereading them since The Dreamthief's Daughter came out. This first volume of Elric stories is a bit patchy and The Fortress of the Pearl has a formulaic quality most of Moorcock lacks and which isn't evident in any of the other stories (beyond their obvious genre roots) but given that most of these were written by a twenty year old, they are amazingly good.  Moorcock is a poetic writer and a naturally eloquent story teller, qualities that don't often go together.  If you enjoy a real writer with a real sense of language you are unlikely to find anyone better in fantasy than Moorcock, together with Peake and possibly Lord Dunsany.  If the quality of writing doesn't interest you, I suspect you'll be a bit baffled by the enthusiasm some of us have for these books.  The great thing about these books is that they can be read at any age and you get more from them.  They have introduced many young readers (including me) to ambitious literary fiction and they have fans as varied as Peter Ackroyd, Derek Woolcott and Walter Mosely.  Even the current Spanish minister of culture says King of the Swords is his favourite novel.  The books reflect Moorcock's complexity as a writer but can be read quickly and enjoyed entirely for their imaginative adventures.  This is smart fantasy from a writer who has kept expanding his horizons for over forty years.  This is where he started and the talent, if not the literary control, shines through.	2001-10-24
US	49465206	R230GPR6NWFR3I	0441860397	512753940	Vanishing Tower 4	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Deeper and deeper!	I have been rereading the Elric series in chronological order since I read The Dreamthief's Daughter this year.  What is extraordinary is that there is no 'thinning' of the series over the years.  In fact all the additional books serve to deepen and strengthen the saga, drawing it to its extraordinary, strongly mythic ending.  It is the nearest thing to a mythological cycle that I know and makes almost all other fantasy series seem like children's fairy stories.  Either Michael Moorcock himself or that other consummate fantasy writer M. John Harrison said that for readers who use fantasy fiction only as escapism Elric is a<BR>'failed escape plan' and it is worth warning those who like the usual crop of 'fat fantasy' sequences that Moorcock's imagination does not lead him or you away from reality.  He has a habit of confronting you with it unexpectedly and that is most clearly seen in the latest Dreamthief's Daughter.  But it is here, too.  Those who expect Elric to behave like the average fantasy hero<BR>(all of whom owe something to Moorcock anyway, including McAffrey's dragons and bits of Star Wars, even -- this guy was<BR>publishing before Lord of the Rings appeared!) will probably hate this stuff.  Those of us who like to escape AND think -- to have the fun of the fantasy with the contemplative quality of literary fiction -- love it to death.  And death is a subject Moorcock doesn't avoid.  'He uses fiction as the divining rod of his age's concerns' said Peter Ackroyd (I think).  You get full strength fiction with Moorcock.  If you like watery chainstore latte to a good honest cup of java, then you probably won't like Elric.	2001-10-24
US	49465206	RA48BS97E59CX	1565041941	560647201	4: A Nomad of the Time Streams	Books	5	7	11	N	N	Chilling Commentary	In the context of recent terrorist attacks, this book should be required reading!  It is a chilling commentary on the notion of a Pax Britannica or Pax Americana and its hidden imperial agenda.<BR>As well as being a fine read!  Moorcock has always written about imperialism and this remains one of his finest comments on the subtle ways in which powerful nations maintain their control of weaker ones.  Re-reading it in the light of current events, it makes a whole lot of fresh sense. He never justifies terrorism but he does go a way to explaining how it develops.   And the tale also has very cool airships.	2001-10-03
US	49465206	R1WI6B38U5TSHH	1568581831	338900687	The Cornelius Quartet: The Final Program, A Cure for Cancer, The English Assassin, The Condition of Muzak (Final Programme)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	In my own top ten	Funny, relentless, a real understanding of the international corporate world long before other people started talking about<BR>it.  Attacks on all kinds of imperialism, but not, REALLY NOT,<BR>politically correct.  Moorcock doesn't just offend conservative bigots. He gets orthodox liberals pretty mad sometimes, too.<BR>These books don't date.  Slowly, we're catching up with them,<BR>though, and discovering what depth as well as range they have.<BR>This is a great edition and I'm recommending it to everyone.<BR>Imagine Lenny Bruce with the cool literary control of Evelyn Waugh and you'll get close to just how good Moorcock is.	2001-09-08
US	49465206	RC27A71HVEDG4	0380975890	537308861	King of the City	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Moorcock at his finest	This is an outstanding novel.  There is no better writer than Moorcock at his best.  This love story against a background of growing world consumerism is rich with characters, plots and Moorcock's incredibly funny, incredibly wise, observations of our complicated and confusing consumerist society.  But it is the characters you remember -- the generosity, the warmth, the anger, the sheer humanity. And the scope.  Only Moorcock gives you that scope -- London, New York, Rwanda, Kosovo... Not enough Americans know Michael Moorcock's literary fiction.  It is their great loss.  He is one of the best we have.	2001-07-24
US	49465206	R1SCX4GAB31V1E	0451625250	306825303	The Anti-Federalist Papers and the Constitutional Convention Debates (Mentor)	Books	5	18	53	N	N	Wonderful stuff	Remember what happened to Tom Paine ?  Crucial to the Revolution. Discovered corruption in Congress.  Was hounded out of the country.  They were wise to be worried.  And so was the South. There is a stronger case for States Rights today than ever before.  The European Union offers a model of a federation of sovereign states whose central government only controls common interests and doesn't interfere in direct taxation or local law, but by importing the Universal Declaration of Human Rights (itself based on Paine's Rights of Man) into law it gives certain guarantees which have hardly been mentioned in the US (prisoners' rights for instance).  Equally the Canadian constitution is a good model for a modern constitution (it includes the rights of women!).  These guys could see the problems.  How do we get our 'representatives' to see the problem ?  By turning the US Constitution into a kind of holy document, we actually work against the ideas of the people who first conceived it.  This book is an excellent one to give those 'constitutionalists' who would rather not think for themselves.	2001-07-22
US	49465206	R1BUJVZ1BRR2ZQ	0441787541	844645270	Storm Bringer (Elric Saga, Book 6)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Real tragedy	Moorcock says he wrote these because he was disappointed with Tolkien (who had been supportive of him in his boyhood) because Lord of the Rings didn't have the acceptance of death of the Eddas, Beowulf and so on.  Stormbringer very closely echoes the Norse myths where heroes have to die in order to renew the world and while Moorcock lacks the sophisticated Anglo Saxon scholarship of Tolkien, he responds better to the raw subject matter of myth and legend.  That is why Elric, while not as consistently written as Lord of the Rings, has its power and why all Moorcock's books have their power.  He never avoids the fundamental realities of life.  Indeed, they are his subject matter.  As a result he can't provide the levels of escape Tolkien and his imitators offer.  It is why Hamlet is at every level a superior work to Lord of the Rings.  It is why Dickens was greater than his imitators and it is why Robert Louis Stevenson, H. Rider Haggard and Arthur Conan Doyle continue to last where there more favoured literary contemporaries have disappeared -- those writers rooted their adventure fiction in a solid acceptance of the real world, the harshness as well as the romance.  Stormbringer is a fine, vivid read and it works, in spite of its origins almost.  It is a significant book because it was Moorcock's first full-length novel and it contains most of the obsessions which he develops both through his Eternal Champion series and his mainstream literary novels like King of the City.  In Moorcock there is no difference between fantasy and reality because his fantasy actually addresses the realities we all have to deal with and his realistic fiction frequently addresses our common fantasies.     Above all, however, Stormbringer is a fast, furious, emotionally engaging and wildly exhilerating Good Read!	2001-07-14
US	49465206	R1N53Z1T3ZRV3Y	1568581831	338900687	The Cornelius Quartet: The Final Program, A Cure for Cancer, The English Assassin, The Condition of Muzak (Final Programme)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Weird but wonderful	This is the coolest book I ever read.  I can't believe it was censored in America but I can see why!!  Jerry Cornelius is my hero!	2001-07-06
US	49465206	RLDH60LDOHBF6	0446526185	794065394	The Dreamthief's Daughter: A Tale of the Albino	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Almost as good as Stormbringer	Nothing can beat the ending of Stormbringer, so this book's ending is a little weak in comparison (also it's the first of three, so we don't know how the overall story ends) but for me it is the best Elric book because it gives far deeper insight into the character of that intriguing hero-villain.  What makes this series work is that they don't get hollower the way many long-running series do, but deepen all the time.  A great plot set on a rich tapestry.	2001-07-06
US	49465206	R1EW3KBIDSQ3Z7	1565041917	500052033	1: The Eternal Champion (Paperback)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Incredible concepts!	What isn't so obvious about The Sundered Worlds, which is admittedly a bit rough, is how many things it actually predicted which are now at the leading edge of scientific exploration. Moorcock predicted BLACK HOLES in this book, long before the scientists identified them.  Rough and ready Quantum Mechanics!  He predicted the physical idea of the MULTIVERSE, which is currently being examined and described in magazines like Scientific American and Nature and which has been used as a convenient plot device by sf writers, script writers and comix writers ever since!  The Eternal Champion and The Sundered Worlds are almost the crude templates from which an enormous amount of imaginative fiction -- and scientific ideas -- have developed!   These days, Moorcock is taken for granted, but anyone who writes fantasy or science fiction is likely to be using an idea which he first proposed.  I'm an old academic technophile who years ago  picked The Sundered Worlds up in a garish pulp format, thought the writing was a little crude, but was astonished at the intellect revealed.  These ideas preceded most scientific speculation, let alone the scientific realities!  It is maybe ironic that those 'New Wave' writers like Ellison, Ballard and Disch, for instance, have actually made far more accurate predictions than the vaunted technical sf writers like Clarke, Heinlein and Asimov.  You need more than an engineering degree to get a real instinct for the world of tomorrow! Metaphysics, astrophysics and advanced physics move closer and closer together.  Like Clarke, Moorcock has an almost Biblical sense of Creation (and a Creator, even) and shares  Oppenheimer's almost mystical grasp of physics -- but it is a pretty good grasp of physics and his rapid absorption of Chaos math has made his speculative work increasingly coherent and constantly stimulating. Why he sits so awkwardly across the genres is that even in his fantasy stories Moorcock is advancing real ideas, examining real problems, considering real possibilities.  This is a book anyone interested in the growth of the fantasy and science fiction genres should make essential reading.	2001-05-23
US	49465206	REOKU0O9T08W4	038078078X	774050327	Blood: A Southern Fantasy	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Ideas and narratives proliferate!	This book represents a new departure for Moorcock.  It is the first book in which he began to amplify and rationalize his ideas about the Multiverse, drawing on Chaos math as created by Mandelbrot.  At the same time it looks backward to the entire Eternal Champion saga, further amplifying and resolving that!  If you read this sequence beginning with FABULOUS HARBORS, going on to BLOOD and winding up with THE WAR AMONGST THE ANGELS (maybe take a peek at Moorcock's Multiverse graphic novel!) you will IMHO get a far more coherent picture of the multiverse.  Given that Moorcock is telling a multitude of narratives (he once said that an ideal story contains as many narratives as words!) and exploring an extraordinary idea in a classic 'hard science' way, yet also, as in the Cornelius books, DEMONSTRATING the thought processes of the kind of people who would live in such an environment, how they would form relationships, achieve personal stability and so on.  Another life lesson for the 21st century ? Urban life requires constant minor shifts of identity and perspective, just as work demands increasing response to immediate stimulii, just as good games do.  Moorcock is one of the few writers to celebrate the coming age and isn't a bit scared by the prospect of conventional literacy being under threat.  He is already discussing alternatives, as he did in the Cornelius books -- predicting what the technology does and predicting what the technology can do to make human life and love rich, profound and -- totally HUMAN. What always marks Moorcock, in his imaginative fiction as well as his social fiction, is his focus on humanity. Ultimately it is why he stands head and shoulders above most of his contemporaries and is doomed, like Leiber, Dick and Ballard, to name a few, to be forever ahead of his time.  Get these books while they are still around.  You might not completely understand them now, but you will!	2001-05-23
US	49465206	R3SCL24YPBJMZZ	156504987X	63254875	Count Brass (Eternal Champion, Volume 15)	Books	3	8	8	N	N	Not the true ending	Although this is AN ending to the Eternal Champion cycle, the 'real' ending is in the sequence BLOOD, FABULOUS HARBORS and WAR AMONGST THE ANGELS and I am surprised White Wolf have not done this volume as an omnibus.  Someone should, because, with the Multiverse comic, it really does resolve the Eternal Champion sequence in a very satisfactory way. Most of my friends agree with me once they have read the Jack Karaquazian/Colinda Dovero books.   My guess is that Moorcock wrote this ending, liked it about as much as the readers here (!)and wrote War Amongst the Angels and Multiverse as a better one. I would also not be surprised (though I have no special information) if the current Elric sequence doesn't somehow tie into THOSE endings.  Vol. 15 is the WEAKEST LINK but can stay because it's at the end of the chain!  The Simonson artwork is some of the best in the series and this is by far the best edition you could buy, to the quality of a limited edition, so is worth having. In some ways, this  book is like a sketch for things which came later and is interesting for some of its novelties (is it the first female Eternal Champion?) and ideas and has some great moments, but if this was ever your introduction to Moorcock you would probably never want to pick up another. You can fall in love with Elric, but you don't much care what happens to Hawkmoon.  We need a further volume or two from White Wolf, surely?  There are some great new characters representing the Champ.   Where is Jerry Cornelius?  Where is Rose von Bek, Jack Karaquazian, Colinda Dovero, Sam Oakenhurst, Paul Minct and Co. to make this thing end with an all-dancing, all-singing, all-color cosmic, cataclysmic joyous and totally wonderful BIG BANG!?	2001-05-15
US	49465206	R252ESYJDSBI0J	0312873298	373092722	The Crown of Silence (Chronicles of Magravandias)	Books	4	0	2	N	N	Outstanding writer!	Outstanding!  I am new to Ms Constantine's work.  I first read her in collaboration with Moorcock, Silverheart, which I bought as an import.  That was a real treat and different enough from regular Moorcock to show a writer who was his equal.  If she's good enough to collaborate with Moorcock, I thought, she's good enough for me!  I would still recommend Silverheart, but I have become enchanted by Ms Constantine's strange, weird sensibility and while this isn't her best novel, it is still pure Constantine, which is good enough for me!	2001-05-05
US	49465206	RBNHJKM1428S1	1565041941	560647201	4: A Nomad of the Time Streams	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another brilliant trailblazer	When this first appeared in the early 70s as an Ace Special it must have hit people as a revelation, because nobody had thought of doing this particular kind of alternate history story before -- the future as imagined by the past.  Since then there have been many honourable and excellent successors, but if you want to read the grand-daddy of steam-punk, a massive influence on some of the finest modern fantasy and sf writers (not to mention ahem R.Dreyfuss &amp; H.Turtledove), this is still one of the finest.  And, like Wells, it has a very specific moral and political examination to make. It doesn't once detract from the typical Moorcock pace.  It's hard to think fast  and follow the action sometimes but I must say to readers who are familiar with earlier editions, this has a huge amount of rewriting, especially in the final volume, and is a much better series for it.  Almost a lament for lost idealism and the end of innocence -- when you slowly realize, you could also be unwittingly on the side of the 'bad guys'.  Wonderful recreation of atmosphere and full of ideas which have since influenced the whole the field,not to mention literary fiction, movies, records and comics!  Moorcock radically influenced the modern graphic novel (Alan Moore and Neil Gaiman are among many who have both generously acknowledged their huge debt to Moorcock).  Yet, given his influence, he and his colleague J.G.Ballard, are hardly acknowledged by the sf field.   Happily the mainstream world seems to appreciate them!  This is a book much admired by the 'literary world' and cited by black authors as a respectful insight into the nature of racism and imperialism. This is the full-strength original, giving clear signals as to its own homages, and they read it here first!	2001-05-03
US	49465206	R2O1YX1BG749U0	0312890729	318023725	King Rat	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Better than Perdido!	I loved Perdido Street Station and was expecting something similar from King Rat, but Mieville impressed me even more, for this is a small canvas story set in a very real and modern London. Full of atmosphere and images of the city.  Wonderful characters.   Maybe it's because I just finished it, but I think this is in many ways better than Perdido Street.   This is definitely a writer who is destined to be amongst the very best of those writers who look to Mervyn Peake and M.John Harrison and others as their models.   A deeper, darker and more substantial tradition than Tolkien.  Read this before Perdido, if you can.	2001-05-01
US	49465206	R32K2T5I3JU86M	0345430212	269666887	Aftershocks (Colonization, Book 3)	Books	1	2	7	N	N	Miserable	I've had it with Turtledove.  One or two of these is more than enough.  I originally bought him expecting something as subtle and engrossing as Moorcock's Nomad of the Time Streams, only to discover an endless working of obvious jokes, genre cliches and bad, bad, writing.  There's more substance in The Warlord of the Air, the first Nomad book, than in the whole of Turtledove.  This is the last one I even look at!	2001-05-01
US	49465206	R27PHU8G4HM493	0441006868	666787553	Galveston: A Novel	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Brilliant!  Brilliant!	Stewart is one of the greats and this is his best book to date.  Forget all those hobbit clones.   Like Carroll, Gallagher, Mieville and a few others, he is bootstrapping his version of genre into genuine literature.   This is real fiction by a real writer.  Don't start reading Stewart until your brain is in gear. You'll be richly rewarded.	2001-05-01
US	49465206	R31R3LPCIHG4SE	0803292791	138189592	The Purple Cloud (Bison Frontiers of Imagination)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	English tradition	This is the typical English disaster story in its earliest stages.  Think John Wyndham, John Christopher, J.G.Ballard -- maybe the average English sf writer is a total loner and what he's really writing is wish-fulfillment!....  This book does have a quality all its own, vaguely reminiscent of William Hope Hodgson and I enjoy the old-fashioned textures.  If you're at all interested in the origins of the genre, this would reward you on that score alone.	2001-05-01
US	49465206	R2PRP0DRI8MVJ9	0446526185	794065394	The Dreamthief's Daughter: A Tale of the Albino	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Perfect introduction to the Elric series	I had the pleasure of hearing Mr Moorcock read from this and it was genuinely thrilling.  He's a great reader.  I found this a perfect introduction to the Elric series and to the ideas behind Moorcock's 'Multiverse'.  Read Jerry Cornelius and see where Watchmen and so much else came from.  Read Elric and you know where the Crow and so much else came from.  This is the source!  Great read.  I'm going around for a second time.	2001-05-01
US	49465206	R8B8XKAV55EBE	156504195X	143770033	5: Elric: Song of the Black Sword (Tr) *OP (Eternal Champion)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Still the greatest!	I was given the new Elric Dreamthief's Daughter for my birthday a week ago. It had been a while since I had read Elric and DD was as good as the best.  This sent me back to reading the whole saga and while I've matured since I first read it, the book also seems to have matured!  It's true, folks.  These books can be read on several levels.  It isn't Marcel Proust, but there are so many more resonances in Moorcock (as in Peake) than in Tolkien that you wonder how Tolkien got so big, since they both started at the same time (admittedly Moorcock was a teenager and Prof. T was an oldster).  Tolkien is much more an escape from reality, I guess. Cotton candy to Moorcock's sturdy nightmares ? Elric never lets you avoid the fundamental truths whereas LOTR, IMHO, helps you avoid them.  Maybe that's what the mass public wants, but frankly I'll go for the adult quality of Moorcock's writing any old day.  Now I have to get back to The Stealer of Souls.   You can't help hoping that this time he won't die. I feel like that about Desdemona in Othello. There is also a distinct touch of the Hamlets here!  The Prince of Ruins and the Prince of Denmark don't always take the most positive view of their situation... These books were a revelation to me when I first started them.  They still offer revelations.  Echoes of Byron, Shakespeare and Robert E. Howard. Heartily recommended.	2001-04-30
US	49465206	R5I84WYC51Q4S	1565041879	324172065	Elric: Stealer of Souls (The Tale of the Eternal Champion, Vol 11)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Greatest climax ever created!	I totally disagree with the previous reviewer.  For me the later Elric books show maturity, wonderful writing, and deeper understanding of Elric's character.   Revenge of the Rose has beautiful prose, much of it rhyming when you start to realise it!  I found Fortress of the Pearl a little disappointing -- but it sets the scene for the new Dreamthief's Daughter, which if anything is the best Elric since Stormbringer.  It also develops and matures its themes.  Of all popular and prolific writers only Moorcock and King seem constantly to be engaging with the modern world through their fantasy stories, maturing their own world views, offering us their consideration.   You don't get that from many big-selling popular writers and we should be deeply grateful for the ones we have!   There's scarcely a writer in the genre who doesn't acknowledge Moorcock's influence and his extraordinary and constant originality (I know because I have my own debt to him) and many of us thought it rather belated of the World Fantasy Convention to wait until last year to make him a Grand Master, since the genre owes as much to Moorcock as it does to Tolkien.  And Moorcock offers a rare maturity only found in a few writers like the outstanding Gene Wolfe, whose work is equally interesting, equally ambitious. Most of this stuff, like LOTR, was written before there WAS a fantasy genre and to a degree it has been buried under its imitations.  In my view Moorcock is an incredibly underestimated writer, except in his literary fiction, which continues to get great reviews in England but which we hardly ever see over here.	2001-04-30
US	49465206	R34W5PVY2R7THX	0792448391	144087991	Mother London	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Wonderful story	...  It's everything everyone says it is and more. This is one of the great post-war novels, nothing less. Unlike the previous reader, I didn't have problems with the 'voices', which I understood to be the voices of the people of the city, their thoughts and desires.  I'm already rereading it and getting more than I did the first time.  This is mainstream Moorcock and it is, if anything, better than fantastic Moorcock!	2001-04-29
US	49465206	R2PFXF3PVQIZOD	0679767819	664674670	The Demolished Man	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Brilliant	This is more of a parallel world story, of course, than a glimpse into the future.  The fundamentals haven't changed and the kind of corporate rapacity Bester saw in the 1950s came back with a vengeance in the 1980s, so his message is as good as it ever was. And this is the only book which ever convinced me of telepathy and what it might be like.  Moorcock and the New Wave, as well as the Cyberpunks who followed them, sang the praises of Alfred Bester and Philip K. Dick and there's no doubt we are now living more in a Bester/Dick world than an Arthur C. Clarke/Robert Heinlein world.  The writers who took the pulse of American society seemed, in the end, to be more accurate in their predictions.  This and The Stars My Destination, plus the Bester short stories, should be the first three cornerstones in anyone's modern science fiction collection.  Bester was to the Young Turks of the New Wavers a bit what Hawkwind was to the Sex Pistols -- the only bit of the 'old guard' the rebels continued to admire.  Bester continues to last through all the fashions he and Dick started!  Get this, some Pohl&amp;Kornbluth, some Dick,some Moorcock, Ballard, Aldiss and the best Harlan Ellison, and you have some of the best socially engaged science fiction there is -- doing everything H.G.Wells expected it to do.  Adult, sophisticated reading with that delicious, rich escapist atmosphere which for me at any rate is irresistable.   An essential novel for any modern library.	2001-04-28
US	49465206	R214KUCWYI6H8V	1587880652	343656718	The Skies of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern Series)	Books	1	3	9	N	N	Disappointing	Before Pern were Jack Vance and Michael Moorcock, both of whom wrote about sentient dragons working in harness with humans.  Neither author sentimentalized their subject.  This stuff seems like pony books dressed up as science fiction.  Maybe if I hadn't read the Great Originals first I might have gotten more out of this, but these don't strike me as adult books at all. Maybe there are more substantial books in the series but I kinda doubt it. If you want great dragons try Vance or Moorcock's latest Dreamthief's Daughter.  This is soft-core fantasy.  The best you get from it is a sugar high. This girl prefers her romance full-blooded!	2001-04-28
US	49465206	R17UY17FSM70IC	0679767800	339858237	The Stars My Destination	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Great American Novel	Michael Moorcock called this the Great American Novel, with its extraordinary populist ending.  This is a novel, among many other things, about the birth of real democracy!   I absolutely hated science fiction until I read this.  I still don't like most science fiction but this and THE DEMOLISHED MAN, plus perhaps a contemporary Pohl and Kornbluth or two, plus a bit of Ballard, Aldiss, Vonnegut and Moorcock, would be the core of any well-read person's library.   The plot is The Count of Monte Christo, the characters, even at their nicest, are a pack of battling rats and the infamies and treacheries of tomorrow's Big Business don't seem a whole lot different to today's.  A genuine classic.  Read and be changed!   TT Sisterhood.	2001-04-27
US	49465206	R2LQEAXN7MW0PI	1857990439	738784650	Byzantium Endures	Books	5	4	5	N	N	One of the great novels of 20th/21st century	Moorcock is a writers writer, admired both for his popular vitality and his literary subtlety and as such he is more like Balzac or Zola than any modern novelist.  The edition advertised here is the full text.  Only the first American edition, as far as I'm aware, was very badly cut.  The adventures of the anti-Semitic but very evidently Jewish Colonel Maxim Arturovitch Pyat, self-styled White Cossack officer and scientific genius, but actually a B-picture movie actor and con-man,  lying, cheating and stealing his bizarre and somehow heroic way to the very gates of Auschwitz is an Everyman for the 20th century, denying the evidence of his own birth if necessary, trying to reinvent reality with every breath and at every turn reality descends upon him, as it does all who avoid it so thoroughly!  This is a chilling comedy of our times in four long, fast-moving volumes,  each independent in Moorcock's familiar popular style, but profoundly probing the origins of the Nazi Holocaust.  There are few absolute heroes and villains in Pyat's eventful times, but many shades and combinations of both.  Moorcock's deconstruction of modern myth figures is subtle and intelligent (look out for a youthful Stalin in Byzantium Endures) and when he gets to America in The Laughter of Carthage and Jerusalem Commands, keep your attention on those cameos and little notes in the margin.  Moorcock has a Wagnerian habit of suddenly bringing up the leitmotif to colour and change your whole understanding of what you have experienced before.  He is a master novelist, admired around the world, and these books, with Mother London, are his masterpieces.  Every  educated reader should   at least have an informed opinion of them.  They should be required reading, both for the vivid and accurate historical pictures they paint and for the example of the European moral tradition in fiction triumphantly alive and well in the hands of a man Angela Carter, Peter Ackroyd and many others among his peers have called the master storyteller of our times.	2001-04-20
US	49465206	R13PL1KQ26GK6F	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Once there was only Tolkien and Moorcock	One thing nobody seems to have mentioned in these well-reasoned reviews which give a rounded picture of the book, is that Moorcock was, after Tolkien, the first English writer to produce this kind of work. Moorcock, in fact, dominated the 60s and 70s and became unfashionable (punk songs villified him yet his band was one of the few the punks admired!) by the late 70s.  Elric and Lord of the Rings are the twin wellsprings of modern fantasy, which had virtually no readership in the late 50s and early 60s.  For a few short years both were known only to a very few number of readers.  Moorcock knew Tolkien and liked him but didn't like the books when they came out.  Some of the reason for creating Elric was not simply to produce a counter to Conan, but to produce something that, as Moorcock put it in one of his introductions, was a true tragedy rather than a grown up fairy story.  These stories essentially were exercises demonstrating some of Moorcock's already made points in his non-fiction (see Wizardry and Wild Romance). Moorcock's non-fiction puts him solidly in the romantic tradition, along with the magic-realists he did so much to promote in his magazine New Worlds.  You can read all his books on more than one level and enjoy them at whatever age.  The more mature Elric books lack some of the fire of the earliest ones, but they show that Moorcock hasn't abandoned his character and turned him into a cipher, that he still cares about what happens to him and how he thinks -- the thoughts just get a bit deeper as real time goes by!  These are books everyone I ever knew who never read fantasy used to read.  They have been overshadowed by Tolkien and the writers who admired Moorcock (such as Eddings and Golding)as a master.  Moorcock can be a brilliant writer.  He has a superb control of romantic language, bringing elements from pulp and poetry.  Only the truly cultured -- those of us who enjoy the best of popular culture as well as the best of 'high' culture -- can appreciate Moorcock at his best.  He is a constant revelation, no matter how many times you read him or on what level.  I have already read the beginning of The Dreamthief's Daughter in Black Gate, the new fantasy magazine, and it promises to be one of the best Elric books yet.	2001-01-18
US	49465206	R2Z8HPWQP3MZ9X	0441203981	305128953	Elric of Melnibone 1	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Once there was only Tolkien and Moorcock	One thing nobody seems to have mentioned in these well-reasoned reviews which give a rounded picture of the book, is that Moorcock was, after Tolkien, the first English writer to produce this kind of work. Elric and Lord of the Rings are the twin wellsprings of modern fantasy, which had virtually no readership in the late 50s and early 60s.  For a few short years both were known only to a very few number of readers.  Moorcock knew Tolkien and liked him but didn't like the books when they came out.  Some of the reason for creating Elric was not simply to produce a counter to Conan, but to produce something that, as Moorcock put it in one of his introductions, was a true tragedy rather than a grown up fairy story.  These stories essentially were exercises demonstrating some of Moorcock's already made points in his non-fiction (see Wizardry and Wild Romance). Moorcock's non-fiction puts him solidly in the romantic tradition, along with the magic-realists he did so much to promote in his magazine New Worlds.  You can read all his books on more than one level and enjoy them at whatever age.  The more mature Elric books lack some of the fire of the earliest ones, but they show that Moorcock hasn't abandoned his character and turned him into a cipher, that he still cares about what happens to him and how he thinks -- the thoughts just get a bit deeper as real time goes by!  These are books everyone I ever knew who never read fantasy used to read.  They have been overshadowed by Tolkien and the writers who admired Moorcock (such as Eddings and Golding)as a master.  Moorcock can be a brilliant writer.  He has a superb control of romantic language, bringing elements from pulp and poetry.  Only the truly cultured -- those of us who enjoy the best of popular culture as well as the best of 'high' culture -- can appreciate Moorcock at his best.  He is a constant revelation, no matter how many times you read him or on what level.  I have already read the beginning of The Dreamthief's Daughter in Black Gate, the new fantasy magazine, and it promises to be one of the best Elric books yet.	2001-01-18
US	49465206	RU7S9Z7JF2L87	1559702729	807055761	Hitler: The Missing Years	Books	4	57	65	N	N	The other story	It is common to dismiss Hanfstaengl's account of his years with Hitler as a biased story written by a Nazi who had fallen out with his leader.  However, almost all those who remained close to Hitler and survived (Strasser, Ludecke and various servants and so on) tell very similar stories.  There is, in fact, an entire literature on Hitler which deals with his relationship, for instance, with Geli Raubal, the story of the pornographic pictures for which he was blackmailed.  This material is almost always dismissed (by Kershaw, for instance, who has done an excellent biography) as being suspect or irrelevant whereas other material which has similar provenance is used quite happily.  Why this should be, I don't really know.  The picture drawn by Hanfstaengl in this book is far more 'human'.  He promotes the notion that Hitler changed radically after Geli's violent death and this is intelligently countered by Ron Rosenbaum in Explaining Hitler -- however, Hitler's terror of the power that was suddenly to become reality (and therefore a responsibility) is more likely to have 'changed' him.  Whatever the reasons for the change, books like this provide an insight where the political intersects with the personal and for me much of Hitler's 'mysterious' behaviour later (including his bad military decisions) can be explained through studying books like this.  None of the others appear to be in print and the Ludecke, which I think is the best, is scarcely mentioned (not at all in Explaining Hitler).  It certainly contradicts the more or less agreed story which Kershaw, in the tradition of other excellent biographies, repeats.   It could be that novelists and writers like Primo Levi have more to tell us now than historians. If your idea of Hitler is of a powerful superman leading a great nation into a massive war, then you probably will be disappointed by this book and the others like it.  If you see him as a lucky, psychopathic nerd, as I do, then this book will help you understand a bit more about the personality of the man whose carefully manufactured myth somehow touched the soul of Germany, debased the myth and stained the soul. Five stars for being  unusual, but, of course, it must be taken with a certain scepticism, so four stars...  Highly recommended, however, to anyone seriously interested in understanding how a civilised nation can find itself voting a monster into power.  I think it could happen to any of us.  To some of us it has already happened.  It can happen in America.  It can happen in Britain. Germany, Russia, Poland, Italy, Spain, Czechoslovakia, Yugoslavia, Hungary, Roumania and other European countries with a record of humane political progress until 'everything changed' into rule by a dictator and a police state. It comes upon us suddenly, if we aren't watchful democrats.  The constitutions of many of those countries were not so different to those of America or Britain, say, and we should never congratulate ourselves that such things could not happen to us. The subtle ways in which such events occur is shown in this book. It is a lesson we all need to remember.	2000-12-12
US	49465206	R20FTXHWD2I40D	1857990412	201974642	Gloriana, or the Unfulfill'd Queen	Books	5	31	37	N	N	Superb writing and characterisation only matched by Peake	The cleverness of this book takes my breath away. No wonder it won the World Fantasy Award and no wonder Peter Ackroyd, among others, picked it as his Book of the Year (and seems to be dipping into it ever since!).   As a student of Elizabethan, Jacobean and Carolignian literature, I am highly impressed both by the underlying philosophical argument (very late Renaissance) and the prose, which is more Carolignian than Elizabethan.  Moorcock specifically says that while the book has some direct reference to Spenser's The Fairy Queen, it has none to Elizabethan England.  What always astonishes me is how readers who don't read widely seem to know exactly why a book is bad!   This is very much a book for grown-ups and I suppose it wouldn't appeal to bigots, but it's very hard to see bigots even beginning to understand it.  The main characters represent Virtue and Vice, very much in a Jonsonian mode, but the plot has a more Jacobean feel -- Captain Quire the assassin, who enjoys his work and practises it like an art, an intellectual killer with a rationale subtler than Hannibal Lector's, and Gloriana, the burdened symbol of her Empire, the embodiment of all her nation regards as virtuous, yet unable to enjoy an organism and devoting all her free time to that quest, desperately seeking it in sensation, because she cannot trust herself to love.  The book falls into four parts, following the seasons, very much a late Renaissance idea, and contains parodies of public poetry.  The range of other characters, both comical and sinister, is brilliant.  And so are the scenes -- the dance on the ice, the great masque, the hunt -- a major set piece for each season.  Platonicism instead of Christianity.  This is a well-considered and profoundly knowledgeable book, like most of Moorcock's ambitious fiction.   This follows in theme books like Behold the Man and The Brothel in Rosenstrasse  -- how much of the person is the embodiment of others' desires ?  How do those desires mould the destiny of the person ?  This is a superb piece of literary fiction.  It is foolish to list it as generic fiction at all.   It deserves a demanding and literate readership.	2000-12-04
US	49465206	R134NUG4UVTB32	0810117819	87709087	Time Gifts (Writings from an Unbound Europe)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A Polished Gem from Serbia	I've read several of Zivkovic's strange, philosophical tales in the British magazine INTERZONE and I know he's much admired by the likes of Michael Moorcock and David Pringle, so I thought I'd give Time Gifts a shot -- and I can tell you, I was NOT disappointed.  This really is an A-class writer, well up there with Borges and Co and with the kind of ideas that once they've slipped into your head you can never get rid of.  The book's a bit pricey, but it's essentially a limited edition, I'd guess. The paperback seems a better deal.  Whether you're a collector of the likes of Calvino and the best of the South Americans, or have, as I do, a taste for the Slavic cast of mind, you won't regret buying this book.  I can't enthuse enough about it!  The author seems wise, witty and with a touch of pathos.  From an interview I read on the net somewhere I gather he's an anti-Milosevitch Serb, too, and recently took to the streets to say goodbye to the deluded dictator!  So a good guy, too!<br />Mary M. Austin. Mary Morris, Austin.	2000-10-14
US	49465206	R2YFR2YSUVM1K8	0684836122	698155584	Scapegoat: The Jews, Israel, and Women's Liberation	Books	5	38	54	N	N	In a class with Tom Paine	Just as Orwell was roundly attacked by the liberal left for daring to suggest that Stalin was as bad as Hitler, so Dworkin seems to arouse the ire of the left as thoroughly as the right! I have never seen such vitriolic reviews as those she receives. Yet her analyses of social problems -- femininist or otherwise -- are breathtaking in that you find yourself constantly saying -- Of course!  That's why --  And in this she has the same effect as Tom Paine when he wrote Common Sense and The Rights of Man. Yet we live in very different times, when any form of criticism of the status quo is repressed, minimalized or mocked and Dworkin has received a barrage of heavy duty artillery.  Powerful people have said how much they hate her.  Newspaper proprietors insist that their papers carry no mention of her unless it is to attack her.  People are fired (I know this from experience) for daring to suggest her analysis of pornography, for instance, is about the most coherent understanding of the problem we all face, especially those of us who are parents of young children.  She also provides a constitutional means of dealing with pornography, and that is why people find her so dangerous -- she doesn't moralise about 'filth' and violence.  She suggests the deep causes and she proposes solutions.  Apparently, this makes people very angry, especially, I suspect, those with vested interest in pornography.  Dworkin supports the First Amendment and knows how to attack pornography. What's wrong with that ?  This new book is almost light reading compared with Intercourse, say, or even the relentless Mercy, but it asks a question we should all be asking -- how does a gun culture develop from an idealistic republic overthrowing oppression and the power of the gun ?  Her answer is weary in a way -- if you can't beat 'em, join 'em.  Just as dedicated internationalists supported Zionism, so does Dworkin the feminist suggest that women should take up the gun and fight for their own nation state.  It's a visionary text, like many of her books, but it is extraordinarily stimulating in the questions it raises and the answers it proposes.  A large percentage of this book is source reference and as usual Dworkin has quoted chapter and verse for every statement she makes.  People were shocked of her reports of obscenities performed by Israeli soldiers before disgusted Palestinian women, to disperse a demonstration.  Exactly the same tactics were described by the women of Greenham Common, England, when they were part of the Peace Camp trying to stop American nuclear missiles being sited in the UK.  The British soldiers behaved identically.  This has a lot to do with male confusion between aggression and sexuality and maybe that's why nobody wants to debate the issues Dworkin raises.  Thank goodness for the internet, Amazon books, and a chance for ordinary readers to voice their enthusiasm and support for one of the grand, eloquent voices of our age.   Mary Morris, Austin, Texas	2000-10-01
US	49465206	R2B2E7Q0ZJBGHI	0486296024	424288287	Common Sense (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	The cornerstone of modern egalitarianism	It's worth remembering that Tom Paine on arriving in the US from Lewes, Sussex, thought that the arguments between the colonies and the 'mother country' would be a matter of legal dispute and settlement.  Experience made him take a more radical view and its easy to imagine how he arrived at it and discovered the reality of London's unjust treatment of the American colonies.  He wasn't the first Englishman to propose American independence -- within the framework of a great commonwealth of equals -- and Common Sense, it should be remembered, sold as well in England as it did in America. The British government, ironically, probably had more support amongst Tory colonists than it did at home.    What makes Common Sense so important today and Tom Paine such a modern political hero, speaking to the modern democrat, is that he was essentially an internationalist whose writing addressed not just the nonsense of hereditary monarchs -- but the nonsense of any kind of ruling dynasty (Windsors, Kennedys or Bushes) -- and understood that those who spoke for 'the people' were as guilty of the same arrogance of monarchs, aristocrats and other people of privilege. He could smell the abuse of power in any form -- English, American or French.  Tom Paine's radicalism has its roots thoroughly in English radicalism which flourished in Lewes, the town where he first began to write and from which he first sought justice (for the excisemen, of whom he was one!.  Lewes withstood the royalists and has a strong anti-monarchist,dissenting,  anti-Catholic tradition to this day, having elected its own officials and defied the monarchy (sometimes successfully) -- it was people like this in their thousands who supported the American revolutionaries. Tom Paine's views were not so difference from those of the Levellers, Cromwell's left wing which he put down as ruthlessly as he put down Catholic sympathizers.  Disappointed Levellers emigrated to America...   To confuse the cause of liberty with thecause of nationalism, which some of the reviewers of Common Sense seem to do, is to my mind a great mistake.  Paine, it should be remembered, was too sensible for George III, too sensible for George Washington and too sensible for the French Assembly (who came close to killing him) -- but he was a friend of Franklin and of William Blake and we all know how Jefferson was beholden to him.  Some of the best minds and creators of his day  recognised in him a fellow spirit.  Paine spoke for the international community -- for the people of all countries, races and religions whose souls cry out for universal justice and liberty.  It is institutionalised Authority we have to address -- whether it be disguised as democratic government or as the divine right of kings -- the powerful will find ways of rationalising why they should keep their power, even when they have neither earned it nor deserve it.  Look to those who claim Authority over us -- whether they be church, state, republican or monarch  -- and judge them by how they represent our public interests, not by what they call themselves or are called by others.   That's Paine's message for me, anyway -- just as relevant today as it ever was.  Sadly American political rhetoric resonates with patriarchal and authoritarian language far more than, say French or British political rhetoric,  and it's worth remembering that even in his own lifetime (which is perhaps why he isn't as honored as he should be) he was already criticizing the corruption of US power.  And in the end we also have to look at the practical situation -- which nations actually enjoy the most actual liberty ?  We all know that the US isn't at the top of the list. A recent survey gave it to France first and then to Canada, with the UK ironically above the US.   Common sense reminds us that Thoreau, who also had some very modern ideas, was as castigated by respectable Americans as thoroughly as they castigated Paine and that some of the best modern American thinkers have found more fertile ground for their ideas in Germany, France and England -- whether it be Millett's ground-breaking Sexual Politics or Nader's and Chomsky's writings on the modern consumer society.  Emily's List hasn't gotten too many women into Congress -- but the Brits borrowed the idea and now have a third of their parliament made up of women.  Same with the Greens in Germany and France whose ideas are inspired by  the likes of Nader here but who have gained real power in their own countries.  The irony of Common Sense seems to be that, like so much good thinking, it was thought of in America but became a reality somewhere else.  Still, it seems to be appealing to a new generation of Americans in the way it appealed to the first generation, so maybe we'll see a few more of Paine's ideas made concrete here in the coming years!  This is the key book for anyone who believes that common justice is common sense -- about the best deal for a buck you can get on the planet!	2000-09-25
US	49465206	R21V2GYST6P9W0	0941423948	471566432	Thomas Paine: Apostle of Freedom	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Definitive book on Paine	The American Revolution's roots in the British which many people thought was 'betrayed' by parliament when it restored the monarchy, the roots of common British and American democratic ideals emerging from the dissenting religions and their notions of justice and equality (it's said that British socialism has more Methodism than Marx in it), the frustrations and ideals of British republicans who invested so much of their hope in the American colonies (not then 'United') shows that even in the l8th century (and presumably before and since) there is a community of men and women who, irrespective of nationality, place justice and liberty above all other human aspirations.  What we learn from this book was that Tom Paine wasn't just a great British radical, a great founding father of the American Revolution, an active member of the revolutionary French Tribunal -- he was a critic of all unearned or abused authority wherever he saw it -- from George III to George Washington -- and that he foresaw a world in which every soul enjoyed the same rights and liberties.  It was his internationalism, his understanding of the drawbacks as well as the virtues of populist democracy, that made him so relevant to modern readers.  You can be sure that Tom Paine would have been at the Seattle demonstrations and would have no doubt been considerably more eloquent in his criticisms of international big business than anyone alive today!   He speaks to us as clearly and as authoritatively as he spoke to his first readers -- who made his work best-sellers in America, Britain and France -- and this is the first book I have read which does its great subject the justice he deserves.  He shouldn't just have a statue in Washington -- he should have one in London and Paris.  It is his ideas of common liberty and justice which unite people around the world, perhaps even more now than in his own day.  Read this book and you will understand how valuable democracy is and how hard it was to win, how hard it remains to keep it vital and uncorrupted.  Everyone interested in modern politics should read this book.	2000-09-25
US	49465206	R1OGQ2KF9K5KPA	0312264852	179647013	Carp Fishing on Valium and Other Tales of the Stranger Road Traveled	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A great rock original now shows real literary talent	I'm not a total Graham Parker fan but am a huge admirer of his best work.   The substance of his songs, as well as their music and performance, are  amongst the best I know and Parker has never had the credit he deserves,  especially for his Stiff work which clearly influenced Elvis Costello.   These stories show the same essentially noir sensibility -- wry, involved,  bitter-sweet -- which informs the songs.  After reading it, my guess is  you'll want to go and listen to one of Parker's great albums like Burning  Questions.  On the other hand you might like to buy an album first -- and  then get the book.  Either way, you're in for some quality stuff.   It  reminds me of the vast amount of talent that flowered in the days when  Notting Hill was a real place and not just a Julia Roberts vehicle.   All  Parker's quirky, edgy seminal music is reflected in this outstanding first  story collection. Mary Morris	2000-08-19
US	49465206	R254S36BS4ULCJ	0881843334	996135003	The Brothel in Rosenstrasse	Books	5	4	5	N	N	I found this book easily!	I agree that this is one of Moorcock's very best books but I got my paperback copy very easily via Amazon.uk, where it remains in print.  It's  worth checking Amazon uk for books that are out of print in America.  I had  no trouble using a credit card to buy this book and get it shipped from  England.  Pretty much all Moorcock's books, it appears, are in print in the  UK -- Gloriana, Byzantium Endures, Mother London and all his major works,  most of which aren't currently in print in the US.  The paperback edition  is an elegant book and slightly revised, I understand. Great cover.  You  can see it at the Amazon.uk site! Mary, Austin.	2000-08-19
US	49465206	R1COHVJSGDONXZ	1861890370	276382329	Liquid City	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The London only a Londoner can know	This book told me more about London and Londoners than a million travel books or books about the legends and myths of London.   Sinclair and Atkins are interested in the scenery and people that nobody ever notices.   The  spaces between highways, for instance, and what kind of people live in  them.   I read his book on Ballard's Crash and it seemed to me then that  while Ballard is noticing the abstract geometry, the beautiful curve of the  elevated highway, Sinclair is more interested in who lives under that  curve.   If you  think you know London, think again.  You'll know it a lot  better after you've read this book.  I did and it's a city I've lived in.   A book which will become, I suspect, a cult classic.	2000-06-01
US	49465206	R34LALIR4TEKAH	1862070091	94603257	Lights Out for the Territory: 9 Excursions in the Secret History of London	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Outstanding investigator of modern London mythology	Angela Carter, M.John Harrison, Peter Ackroyd, Michael Moorcock -- and Iain Sinclair.  All of them have made it their business to investigate the myths and apocrypha which they believe are the psychic structure of London.   Whether it's Carter's Wise Children,Harrison's Travel Arrangements,  Moorcock's King of the City or Ackroyd's Dan Leno, they all display the  same obsessions.   What's remarkable is that all are very different.   Sinclair's is the only book which is factual, but it fits so smoothly into  fiction like Downriver and Radon Daughters that sometimes you can hardly  tell.  There is an intellectual rigour, an original eye, a beautiful poet's  precision -- and the low-down on some high life characters.   I can't  recommend this wonderful, rich book enough.  Great value, too!	2000-06-01
US	49465206	R27EBH02Q9NAJU	0099589117	235848120	Lud Heat	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Early work from a great original	I didn't realise this book was out of print.  It seemed to be everywhere at one point!   I can only say it deserves to be reprinted as soon as possible.  Moorcock's introduction is a wonderful introduction to Sinclair  full of a kind of amiable contempt for most of Sinclair's less talented but  generally more famous contemporaries.  McKean has done a good job, but one  of the main points of interest in this book is that it's what Peter Ackroyd  acknowledges as his main influence on Hawksmoor.   Profound, witty,  idiosyncratic, it's a wonderful start to Sinclair!	2000-06-01
US	49465206	R19Y7D2YDHFJ2N	085170719X	719429456	Crash (BFI Film Classics)	Books	5	9	15	N	N	A brilliant essay on the origins of the movie	As a fan of Ballard I am definitely not a fan of Cronenberg, whom I find superficial, sensational and laddish in the extreme.  The movie extracted the least interesting elements of the book and turned them into a kind of  techno-porn which I associated with Cronenberg's preferred genre before  this book.  Now I have a clearer idea of what disturbs me about  Cronenberg's versions of books which I have admired -- including The Naked  Lunch -- and Sinclair subtly teases out the  woman-hating elements which  are in both Ballard and Cronenberg, attacks the specious nature of the  treatment and reveals the film for the piece of faux-auterism that it is.    I didn't know why I didn't like Crash until I read Sinclair and Sinclair in  no way attacks the film.  He just collects the evidence and presents it.  A  respected film maker himself (Cardinal and the Corpse, The Falconer,  Asylum) Sinclair must be one of the smartest critics in the business.  I  always follow his essays in the London Review of Books and would recommend  them. Sinclair may make films about 'illuminati' but he is himself  wonderfully illuminating.  I can't recommend this clever, precise essay  enough.	2000-06-01
US	49465206	R1NOE5PJ32BW8Z	0801842190	471434932	Neighboring Lives	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A wonderful way to get to know Bohemian Chelsea	The neighbors of the title are all the famous and romantic people who lived in Chelsea, London from Thomas Carlyle, who was one of the first to move there, to the PreRaphaelites and Oscar Wilde.  The  research is  superb, the relationships wonderfully done and while the book is more than  this, it has the engaging readability of one of those family saga  blockbusters.  This, of course, is a literary novel and the authors are  interested in revealing the characters, as they perceive them, of some of  the most famous and influential people of the 19th century.  This is a book  to love and read over and over again!	2000-05-26
US	49465206	R2BEH4HL4E299F	0375705457	931553433	Camp Concentration: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	One of the ten best sf novels ever	There's not much to add to everyone else's praise. This is way up there at the top of the top ten and anybody who claims to like adult science fiction -- or good contemporary fiction for that matter --can't claim themselves  educated until they've read it!  334 and Wings of Song are great, too. In  fact 334 would probably also be in that top ten, too.	2000-05-26
