US	49477922	R2QH0YTMLMDHF2	0590939750	61747659	Trout Summer	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Great Growing Up Book	Shauna & her brother are average 12 & 13 year old kids.  Life is going along as usual.  The kids enjoy the usual things-school, friends, sports, outdoors.  Their grandfather has taught them about fishing, the best bait, the names of trees, flowers and berries, so they know their way around the outdoors.  All is well until their father without warning, leaves the family with only a note of explanation.  Their mother moves the kids to another town for a better job opportunity.  The chance comes available for them to live in a secluded cabin.  No water, no electricity.  Their mom will leave the kids every day for her job.<br />During this fateful summer, the kids learn how to take care of themselves, how to pool their resources when a crisis takes all their bravery to cope.  Read this exciting book to find out the exciting details of the summer Shauna and Cody spend.  Think of this as every kid's dream of no parents, no alarm clocks in the woods.  This book is \\"Hatchet\\" combined with The Boxcar Children's \\"Surprise Island\\" rolled into one.	2002-07-24
US	49477922	R2R2N1LLMQETV8	0380733064	481998546	Nowhere to Call Home	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Deeply touching	This is a very interesting book.  Lots of great characters, great details of the hobo life and the depression.  Every detail was interesting.<br />Frances finds herself all alone in life after her father loses his money in the stock market crash and takes his own life.  Junius, who worked for the family, told Frances about the hobo life.  When the family home is to be sold, Frances decides to take to the rails.  What follows, is a very exciting life after Frances, now Frankie-a boy in disguise-meets up with Stewpot.  Stewpot takes Frankie under his wing and teaches her the ways of the road.  There are exciting adventures, with a grim touch of reality as Stewpot becomes seriously ill.<br />Read this book for an exciting look at another time period and another way of life.  Get to know Frankie as she gets to know herself and the world around her while she travels across the country, only to find herself back where she began her journey, only a much wiser young person than when she started out.  The twists and turns the story takes will surprise you, as will the ending.	2002-06-28
US	49477922	R38UU7ZTPDDBZB	0399148450	627668908	Widow's Walk: A Spenser Novel (Spenser Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Spenser Returns	I liked this book a lot.  Spenser is like an old friend after all these years.  I like all of Parker's books, but Spenser remains my favorite.  I liked the last Spenser book that rounded up all his old buddies; but this was a nice return to normalcy.<br />Spenser's client is a widow who is the suspect in her husband's murder.  Spenser is called in because the police have an iron tight case that just seems too convenient.  She was in the house with her husband's body, supposedly downstairs watching tv, and later found her husband's body.<br />The widow is young and very very stupid, or is she just too cunning for the police and Spenser to nail?  Who would commit and murder and not have an alibi?  Was this so stupid it was brilliant?  As Spenser goes digging around, people start getting annoyed with him and his ever-present pal, Hawk.  The more they poke around in the husband's bank business and wealthy family background, the more it becomes apparent all is not as it should be.  People start following Spenser.  People begin taking pot shots at him.<br />Parker is at his best with his to-the-point snappy dialogue.  His relationship with Susan and wonder-dog Pearl is still at his center.  Susan loses a client, which upsets her terribly.  When a woman Spenser questions turns up dead, he feels as responsible for her death as Susan does about her patient.  This leads to deep conversations.  Pearl is getting older and more feeble.  They must face up to the fact Pearl will not always be with them very soon.  I admit, the passages about Pearl made me cry.  The wonder dog Pearl is no longer with Mr. Parker on the back cover.  Did he face this same thing in his own life a short time ago?  He summed up the dog/human relationship so brilliantly.	2002-04-09
US	49477922	RI77UF8OSH8YG	0380978857	21652145	The Golden One	Books	5	44	47	N	N	Really Golden Book	I read the other reviews saying the plot wandered or Ms Peters doesn't know what to do with WWI.  So not true.  The people who said the series got stale after Ramses and Nefret got married are also off the beam. <br />I have enjoyed equally the different nuances the series has taken at all junctions.  I loved Ramses when he was a tiny boy.  The descriptions of him in his little nightshirt with toes peeking out lisping were hysterical.  The description of him dumping a smelly old bone onto the lap of a snobby woman Amelia wanted to get rid of were a riot.  The descriptions of Ramses as he got older lecturing ponderously as his mother would interrupt him were great.  I loved it when Ramses,  Nefret and David got older and got their own lives.  The parts where Ramses was in complete shambles because Nefret had touched him, or made an innocent remark but his family could not see his agony were great.  I enjoyed the between the lines parts of Ramses and David having adventures in the suks that was only hinted at.  The book that left Nefret and Ramses hanging in mutual agony over misunderstandings was agony.  I was so overjoyed at their happiness when they finally discovered each other.  I am enjoying their marriage very much.  The between the lines bits of marital life as their parents look on at a distance are great. In this book, the bit in which Ramses and Nefret are reunited in the harem and their mother reminds them as they totter off to bed there are peep holes she may not have found and covered up; and they had better just...sleep, was so apropos.  When they finally have children, I will love that as much. <br />Yes, I miss David and Lia.  But as Ms Peters has pointed out in answer to where they have been the past couple of books, she can only manipulate so many characters in one book without it spilling into thousands of pages.<br />This book, The Golden One, has the war intrigue, the murder ingrigue, the interworkings of characters from past books.  In short, ithas it all.  I liked the minor characters, Lord Edward, Jumana and Jamil, and the pimp (I forget his name) pop up to become bigger characters in this book.  I will not go into the ins and out of characters and plots the other reviewers have covered.  I will close by saying, if you have not experienced Amelia Peabody and Elizabeth Peters, do yourself a favor and do so.  Start with \\"Crocodile on the Sandbanks.\\"	2002-04-09
US	49477922	R3D1L41YAMFHBJ	0064408655	43061444	The Vile Village (A Series of Unfortunate Events, No. 7)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Not Just For Kids	Love love this series.  Move over, eight year olds, the big people love these books too.  I am a librarian and I can tell you, I have as many grownups checking these wonderful books out as the kids!!!  One patron said he and his girl friend read them to each other.  Ah....<br />I won't go into plotlines.  I think that has all been covered.  I am just here to tell the grownups not to read these books.  If you have a Baudelaire book in your hand, it is not too late.  Put the book down and go read John Updike or Joyce Carol Oates or something....if you are wanting a sweet book for your grandchildren about dear little tots going on picnics, having adventures and grand times on the beach, these books are not it.  Get the kids the Bobbsy Twins!	2002-03-16
US	49477922	R2MAB1QJN6SE7I	1587885298	198558647	Seven Up (Stephanie Plum, No. 7)	Books	1	10	12	N	N	Bad Listening	I love all Janet's Stephanie Plum books. I have read them several times. I have listened to the audios more than once when I run out of new audios. I prefer unabridged audios. I very much prefer a company, which shall go unnamed, that is not releasing an unabridged audio copy of this book. The much lauded narrator, C.J. Critt, of the unabriged audios is very much missed.<BR>     I am saying all this to say basically, that this is not a put down of the book itself, but the production of the audio. I have listened to a lot of audios, both good and bad, over the years. Like a really horrible date, I was trying to remember when I'd had a worse experience. I still cannot think that I have had a worse audio experience than this performance gave me.<BR>I had already seen the bad reviews of this audio, both on Amazon and on the author's official website. I already knew the fans were not going to get the usual reader from the company that has done the other six books. But I thought, how bad could it possibly be? Well....<BR>     The production of this audio is so bad, words pale. One very obvious thing is that the reader was apparently told to clip along at a very fast pace. I can picture the director telling her she gets bonus if she gets the whole book on less than six tapes-which she did. Compare that to the other brand's eight to nine tapes and you will see the big huge difference. It is literally hard to follows some of the dialogue because she is reading so blasted fast. No dramatic pauses. No deliberation of words is used. Another bad thing that compares horribly with the other unabridged audios is that the changes of voice for different characters is way off the beam. Imagine if you will an average woman's voice used for all the female characters. No real changes are made among the female characters. Imagine if you will the same female voice &quot;fake deepened&quot; for the men. This would be what I as a non-actor person would do for a guy's voice. But to hear thison an audio tape is beyond distracting. I cannot believe it was deliberately done for an audio they actually intended to sell!! What were they thinking?<BR>     The reader also uses a fake New Jersey accent on just certain words, which you would think would work given that it is set in New Jersey. Sometimes it was okay to hear &quot;cah&quot; for car and &quot;pahk&quot; for park and other times it was very distracting.<BR>     My final analysis is to recommend you READ the book; but save yourself the money and the angst and don't LISTEN to the book.	2001-09-14
US	49477922	R34R5U98AU3JSJ	0914576089	48161144	Race and Reason	Books	1	20	68	N	N	We've Come a Long Way!	This book was written in 1961 by a man in response to the Supreme Court's decision to desegregate the schools.  He calls himself a Northerner sympathetic to the Southern cause.  This book came about as a result of a series of letters to the editor he wrote to the Memphis Commercial Appeal newspaper.  These letters were reprinted in newspapers all over the country.  Editoral cartoons were written about him.  Ads were taken out in newspapers not running his letters.  As a result of the letters, Putname received thousands and thousands of letters from all over the country.<br />In a nutshell, the book gives a point by point reasoning of why the schools should not be desegregated and why the Negro people should be happy with their lot in life.  Putnam was a good, professional writer, which makes it all the more difficult to see the wild views for what they were in this book.  I kept reading page after page trying to figure out just what he was saying in his cool academic language.  Here follows an excerpt:<br />&quot;There is no basis in sound science for the assumption, promoted by various minority groups in recent decades, that all races are biologically equal in their capacity to advance, or even to sustain, what is commonly called Western civilization.  They most emphatically are not.<br />The Negro race has various and valuable qualities....Some disagreement may exist as to the extent to which the admixture of Negro genes has affected the white civilizations in the past.  I have never anywhere seen the claim that it did the white race any good.  But in any case, we are left with the query, what great civilization of the kind we are seeking to develop in the West, ever arose after an admixture of Negro genes?&quot;<br />&quot;The communists have made the intergration movement a part of their conspiracy, although of course communism is not the only force back of integration.&quot;<br />The book goes on in this vein for quite a while.  It is all very proper and civilized.  The book has footnotes and references to other books.  It quotes learned scholars, both current to the time and in history.<br />This book should be read by young people who did not live through the 1950s and 1960s.  Such books as these are a reminder to us all of what our country very recently was.  To forget history, is to relive it.	2001-02-07
US	49477922	R18KU03625PAT6	0385260032	18785720	The Search for Bridey Murphy	Books	3	70	78	N	N	Strangely Compelling Book	This book is based on recorded transcripts done by Morey Bernstein on a patient, Ruth Simmons back in 1952.  Dr Bernstein hypnotised Ms Simmons to talk about her early childhood events.  During the course of these hypnotist sessions, she started talking about earlier lives.  According to her account, she had several lives.<br />In one life she came as a baby who lived only briefly.  She talks about her life with this family and her brothers and sisters playing with her and being ill.<br />The biggest past life she talks about is Bridey Murphy, a woman who lived in Ireland in the 1800s.  She talks about her childhood and family and her husband and how she died.  Bridey was named after her grandmother Bridgette.  She died in her late sixties after a bad fall.  After Bridey died, she was worried about her husband and apparently decided to stay in the house with him until he died.  She says he was totally unaware of her presence even though she tried to communicate with him.<br />The whole book is a very interesting series of transcripts taken from the tapes of the conversations with Dr Bernstein.  I am not a big believer in reincarnation, but I still found it the sort of book hard to put down.  For those people who believe in reincarnation, this book is a must-read.  For those nonbelievers, it is still an interesting book.	2000-12-20
US	49477922	R3GWM1LOCB2ZA9	038078355X	996762762	Sex and Salmonella: A Tory Bauer Mystery (Tory Bauer Series)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	So Good!!  Why is it the Only Tory Book Out of Print??	This book is the second in the Tory/South Dakota series...and the only one of the series to be out of print!!  Why I don't know, because you need to read this book to really get into the whole series.<br />The series is set in a small South Dakota town.  Tory, the main character is a fat waitress at the town's only cafe.  Her roommate, Del, is a nympho, who sleeps with everybody who moves.  Tory's best friend is Neil, the local millionaire librarian.<br />This wonderful book naturally centers around people sleeping around and getting wonderfully ill.  <br />Tory's cousin, annoyingly upright Junior, faints from food poisoning in the cafe, leaving Tory in charge of the town celebration's carnival.  So Tory must go and preview the carnival in another town and report back to Junior. Tory hitches a ride to the carnival with her married lover, Stu.  Along the way, they have an afternoon tryst where the witness some other shenanigans, which open up the can of worms. That is where the fun begins.<br />We get to meet different interesting members of the carnival..	2000-12-19
US	49477922	R23IBPBA410QQG	0380812045	107722603	Cold Front: A Tory Bauer Mystery	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Tory and Kathleen Get Better With Each Book!!	Love, love, love this book and the whole series.  I am going to be very strict and tell you to run and read the other books before reading this one if you have not already.  Some series do not require reading in order.  This series does.  Start with Funeral Food/Missionary Position and go on to Sex and Salmonella..though for some wild reason S &amp; S is the only book in the series OUT OF PRINT!!  And hard to find.  But it's well worth it, so keep digging until you find it.  The only thing i am mad about is that the book is over and I have to wait countless months for the next one.  I kept spreading it out and making it last.<br />The writing is very clever in all the books, but I think Kathleen Taylor hit her biggest stride with Cold Front.  The writing rocked.  Even the chapter titles were too clever.  She does a lot of literary takeoffs I really like.  Tory is always asking herself what Miss Marple would do, so there's one chapter called WWMMD!  Then there's the Terrible Awful No Good Very Bad Day chapter.  And Little House Trailor on the Prairie!  Love It!!  Her writing is so hilarious..when talking about one townsperson and how out of snyc she was acting, Tory was mulling it all over and could only come up with one solution-pods in the basement.<br />I love all the townspeople-Stu the philander, Ron the blinker, Del the cranky nympho roommate, Aphrodite the cook, Neil the librarian-my new hero, Junior the uptight control freak cousin.<br />And throughout all the books, Tory keeps telling the reader, now if this was a REAL mystery, you would not be putting up with this or we would have already have solved the mystery etc.  A nice touch.<br />Read these wonderfully funny books.	2000-12-18
US	49477922	R2W670XAM1Z43O	0373263341	219005928	Throw Darts At A Cheesecake (Worldwide Library Mysteries)	Books	1	5	5	N	N	I Agree with UGH!	If you want a murder mystery that reads like a Weight Watcher propoganda indoctrination, then read this book.  Every page is filled with Weight Watchers spiel.  You can tell the writer lived the WW life right down to the scales and the constant water drinking.  All the meeting stuff is very realistic.  Yes, I am a WW backslider, so sue me.<br />If you want to read an interesting book filled with interesting characters, interesting conflicts and well thought out plot lines, then run and find another book.  The writing style is stilted.  The dialogue is bad.  The writing connecting it all together is bad.<br />If you want to read about interesting fat people in mysterious circumstances, read Kathleen Taylor's mystery series.  It's set in South Dakota with a fat crime fighter.  It is hilariously well thought out and very clever.  <br />The cheesecake is not well plotted at all.  She gives a quote from Gilda Ratner in the FIRST full paragraph which tells the book title.  -please-  The opening page is so important.  It establishes the whole premise for the book.  The opening page sets the stage.  It should be catchy, but certainly not reveal in the 2nd line the whole reason for the title forgoodnesssake.	2000-12-18
US	49477922	R1QR40BJMH5X0U	0385335318	466643093	More than a Mistress	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Wonderful Regency Romance	Lady Sara, known to her family as Jane, flees her evil guardian and his plot to marry Jane off to his son to secur her fortune.  Jane plans to escape to London and her godmother, Lady Harriet's home.  The plan goes awry when Lady Harriet is not home.  Jane panics thinking she may have killed her ravisher.  She decides to find a job &amp; lay low in London until she is safe.  On the way to her job as a seamstress, she interrupts a duel causing the Duke of Tresham to be shot in the leg.  Jane loses her job for the delay, so she confronts the duke who offers her the job as nurse.  Out of desperation to remain anomyous, Jane takes the job.<br />Jane and the Duke of Tresham, or Joceyln (his Christian name) are drawn together for reasons unknown to either of them.  Nobody has ever spoken to the duke as Jane dares to.  She demands he say please and thank you to her and dares to ask she be called by name instead of girl.<br />This faint description does not do the book justice.  The characters are witty and intriguing.  Jane has a sharp tongue, but manages to not come off as a shrew.  Jocelyn has a quizzing glass (and uses it!) &amp; dandyish clothes, but is not a nellie.  (When have we ever seen the hero with a quizzing glass?)  The Duke of Tresham's two sibling are a real hoot.  His sister, Angeline, has hideous taste in clothes, choosing mustard colored bonnets with pink plumes.  His brother is involved in carriage races and bets at White's.  There are numerous friends coming and going throughout.<br />And throughout the entire story, the Duke of Tresham is chased by a band of five brothers who wrongly insist he had an affair with their married sister.<br />This book takes the best of the Regency novel-intricately tied neckcloths, quizzing glasses, afternoons at home, afternoon rides in Hyde Park and balls- and combines those with the best of the historical novel-real characters, romantic tension and lust-and puts them together to great effect.<br />Other reviewers seemto have problems with parts of the story.  The only thing which was a bit thin for me was that Jane shows up at Lady Harriet's home and finds her gone away on a trip.  If Jane is the godchild, the servants and those in charge of the house would know her and offer her a place to stay until Lady Harriet returned.  Jane acted like she had no alternatives when Harriet was not at home.  Jane only had 15 pounds in her pocket and acted totally desperate enough to stay in crummy boarding houses instead of asking Lady Harriet's butler to let her stay.<br />All in all, I thoroughly enjoyed the book.  I could not put it down until I finished it.	2000-11-04
US	49477922	RTILGSP9BRE9D	0345433351	389360086	The China Bride (The Bride Trilogy)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Unique Historical Romance	This does not start out as your typcial romance read at all.  Expect the unexpected from M.J. Putney.  She takes what could be a totally familiar walk through familiar territory and makes it her own unique story.<br />The story takes place in China in the late 1800s.  Kyle is an English merchant in China.  Troth is a Chinese/Scottish young lady posing as a male translator.  The fact that Troth is Chinese and Scottish is in itself unique.  I don't recall ever reading any romance featuring that particular heritage.  Troth's mother was a Chinese lady who's marriage to the Scottish man was arranged.  Her mother told Troth she came to love her husband.  So Troth is a product of a totally unique marriage.<br />When Troth meets Kyle she never means to fall in love.  Something about Kyle caught her attention.  He instantly noticed Troth also.  But since she was disguised as a male, his fascination with Troth seemed unexplained.  <br />The story does go into a great deal of historical detail.  Other reviews have said the detail bogged the story down.  I do not think so.  I love history.  History is why I love reading historical romances.  The story goes into the background of China opening its doors to the rest of the world to buy and sell.  It talks about the opium trade, which became the Boxer Rebellion.  Ms. Putney does a very even handed job of telling all this so it is not slanted to make the Chinese look perfect, or the Europeans, English and Americans involved in the buying and selling of goods, such as ginsing, fabric etc look totally bad either.<br />If you want a cookie cutter romance, read a Harlequin romance.  If you want something a bit unique and different from all the other romances, read The China Bride.  It is unique.  How many books start out with the hero dead, the heroine falling at the feet of the hero's identical twin brother and go from there?  It takes a real talent to start a book out with such a depressing beginning and pull the story out of the fire.  I will not spoil the story by telling you how Kyle and Troth fall in love, escape China, survive and prosper.  It is way too interesting to spoil for you.	2000-11-02
US	49477922	R1IH9XTZNJSXUR	0439115213	952672651	The Resistance (Animorphs, No. 47)	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Heated Up Battle	The cover of #47 shows Jake changing into a beaver.  I was not totally thrilled about this particular morph.  I have nothing against beavers, but they do not seem like a particularly exciting animals in the battle for planet earth.  As it turned out, the beaver came in very handy in a new and different way than expected.<br />Jake is again faced with leadership problems.  The Hork Bajir are fighting for their secret valley against the usual enemies.  Jake knows the friends of the Animorphs face huge odds in trying to defend their valley.  Should Jake encourage the Hork Bajir to flee the valley; or stay and fight huge odds to defend their turf?<br />Jake and the group must also make big decisions about what to do to prepare what will come in the battles to come very shortly.  The group is torn as to whether to stay a small secret group, or tell the world what is happening and try to get the help and support of people in the coming fight.  Jake faces the question of secrecy when he must try to warn a group of campers to leave the area before they are swept up in the battle for the valley.<br />This book does not touch on some of the problems of Marco and his family covered in other recent books.  It mainly focuses on the free Hork Bajir and their battle for freedom and protection of home.<br />Every other chapter of this book focuses on Jake's ancestor who took part in a Civil War battle.  These historical chapters were supposed to be an anology of the battle taking place with the Yerks.  The anology was supposed to be about a small group fighting a larger more powerful group with odds stacked against them.  The historical chapters were interesting in that they were a different way of writing the story than had previously been used.  That said, I found the story switch to be distracting.  The Civil War and its problems is too huge to cover in a few short chapters.  Some of the things said were not very accurate.  The Northern army was called the Union army, while theSouthern army was called the Rebels.  To make things perfectly equal, which it was not trying to do, the Southern army should have been called the Confederacy.  I would have preferred the story to focus on the battle with the Yerks and the Hork Bajir, rather than the historical story.   But the book was a good read.	2000-11-01
US	49477922	R1XHMSJOJ5E6QB	0399146245	897342569	24 Hours	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Gripping Drama	I have been a fan of Mr. Iles's work since meeting him at a convention a couple of years back.  My favorite book was one of his earlier books &quot;Black Cross,&quot; which is a thriller set in WWII, which is totally unlike his current books.<br />The past book I really didn't like was &quot;Mortal Fear,&quot; which I thought got into kinky online sex at bit too much.<br />Some other reviewers have noted &quot;24 Hours&quot; is like a lot of other books and goes over a lot of familiar territory.  I totally agree with those remarks.  Other reviewers are seeing Hollywood stars in the author's eyes.  I was casting the picture as I read it.  I really hate that.  When I read John Grisham, I see the production notes in the text and it irritates me a lot.  It's like he was not writing the book for me the reader, but for the bigger scope of Hollywood.<br />I won't go into the thing about what the book is about, because the other reviewers have already covered that.  I will just keep on with what I didn't like about the book.  The little girl who was kidnapped was a diabetic, which was supposed to up the time element drama of getting her back and her life being in danger.  But, like so many writers, the diabetic facts were not totally correct. The parents were worried during the whole book with the little girl getting her insulin.  The little girl at one point even gives herself insulin.  But, HELLO, she never eats anything but crackers and a mint.  The guy who has her talks about fixing her a bowl of Captain Crunch, but it's never definite.  Without food, giving her more insulin is the worst thing possible.  And through the whole book, her blood sugar is up and they keep talking about this in itself making her feel bad.  Actually, it's just the opposite.  When the blood sugar is too high, the person will feel better than if it was too low.  And even though she had not eaten, with her adrenalin going, it probably would have stayed high.  One scene even had her passing out because it was too high.  That is just not going to happen.  The diabetic person will feel bad and eventually pass out/go into a coma when the blood sugar goes too low-like under 100.  That means there is too much insulin and not enough food.  <br />Her mom even made a special trip to the hideout shack to give her insulin and then was not concerned about getting her food.  Giving her insulin and then not feeding her was worse than not giving her insulin and not feeding her.  This sort of thing kept on through the whole book to the point I was irritated with the whole thing.  <br />This was a suspenseful exciting book I enjoyed reading.  The plot moves along quite nicely.  But this is the type of book 15 other lawyer suspense writing people could have written.  I really wish Mr. Iles would take his unique talent and do unique things with it instead of serving up what has already been done.	2000-10-23
US	49477922	R27UZLPZCILOLQ	0385319711	747316956	The Midnight Hour	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Every Romance/Suspense Book Ever	Midnight Hour takes the usual elements of romance and suspense and puts them together better than most any writer alive could do.  We have the puritanical uptight heroine, Grace, and the cocky hero, Tony,  who misunderstands the heroine until he gets to know her better along the way.  We have the problem they two main characters must work together to solve, as well as their smaller self-involved problems-Grace's rowdy daughter and Tony's unwed state.<br />This is a great book for those of you who like the turn the romance writers have taken with a walk on the darker more suspenseful side in the past couple of years.<br />The thing which racked my nerves and tried my patience was the facts on diabetes were so screwed up.  Grace's daughter was a diabetic.  One evening she slips out and goes off with her friends to get drunk.  An alcoholic drink has a high sugar content, which no diabetic person should have.  Grace calls the police, who happen to find her daughter and have her in tow when they show up at the house.  The daughter is passed out, which could be from drinking.  But it was implied it was from the diabetes.  With the drinking, her blood sugar would have been way too high for that to have happened.  High blood sugar would not make her pass out. There were a number of items about diabetes which were wrong.  There are tons of books written about diabetes and its control.  I am sure a search on the internet would give a ton of hits.  It is so easy to get the facts checked.<br />All that said, this was a great book I enjoyed a lot.  Karen Robards is a writer I always look forward to because each of her books is a totally unique reading experience.	2000-10-23
US	49477922	R1FTS9P6F932MX	039567347X	13684192	Bad Day at Riverbend	Books	5	8	8	N	N	My Favorite Picture Book	I have loved this wonderful book since it came out.  This is a grownup's book masquerading as a kiddie book.  The children I know have not liked the book, but the adults howl over it.  It's one of those books children don't really get because it subtly makes fun of kids...but that is what the fun is all about.<br />One past reviewer said this was not Chris Van Allsburg's typical illustration.  There IS no typical Van Allsburg illustration.  All of his books are totally unique.  You will not find a copycat book in his whole award winning collection.<br />The whole point of this delightful books is that it mirrors a child's coloring book.  The opening pages are uncolored and shows the typical western town with the peaceful citizens living their quiet daily lives with the usual sheriff in attendance to round up the bad guys.  Suddenly a horse and rider pull into town.  Hanging from the horse are greasy colored strips hanging from him.  The rider was in the same terrible condition.  He looked awful.  The rider tells the sheriff that he was riding along minding his own business, when suddenly there came a sudden bright light and then he was attacked.  The sheriff knows he must act at once to save the town from this terrible unknown threat.  I won't tell you the ending. <br /> If you are reading this book in a bookstore, be prepared for people to stare as you double over with tears streaming down your face.	2000-10-11
US	49477922	R1B3ES6MGRNX09	0590307002	227818799	Don't Cut My Hair! (Scholastic Reader Level 1)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Another Great Book	The author Hans Wilholm has written several delightful books featuring this cute little white moppet dog.  Children will want to read all the books.  Another book features this dog getting lost and one shows the dog losing a tooth.  These are all subjects children can relate with.<br />The doggie is forced to get a haircut he doesn't want.  After being sheared, he is very sure all of his friends will laugh at him for being different.  How comforting to find out his friends accept him for who he is.	2000-10-11
US	49477922	R389PORXP2X9LL	0140323090	306886839	The Cartoonist (Puffin story books)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Wonderful Children's Book	This is a great example of what children's literature should be about.  It tells a lot in a very few pages about how sad a child's life can be when the adults are less responsible than the children.  We see Alfie's grim world through his eyes.  <br />Alfie lives with his mother, grandfather and sister.  Alfie's only interest in life is to draw cartoons.  He draws at night, at school and any other time he can manage to sneak away.  In the evening, he climbs up to the attic and closes the world of his loud abusive obnoxious mother behind so he can draw and dream about a better life.<br />Betsy Byars does a wonderful job of realistically portraying a grim world with an alcoholic mother and grandfather who do nothing but argue and watch television without beating the reader over the head with the harshness of it all.  I felt real hope in Alfie as he tried to control his little world and keep it out of the hands of the irritating mother who fails to understand his artistic interests.	2000-10-11
US	49477922	RF5CWIKESDPMM	0679891331	15244613	Chicken for a Day (Step-Into-Reading, Step 3)	Books	1	1	3	N	N	Very Silly Book with Zero Appeal	A little girl named Daisy wakes up one day to discover she has, for no real explained reason, turned into a chicken.  Her parents do no seem at all shocked when their daughter the chicken clucks into the kitchen for breakfast.  She turns down her usual egg in favor of picking at some corn flakes.  She goes out to the bus only to be refused admittance.  The story goes on from here.<br />There are so many delightful easy to read books being developed for beginning readers.  There are books that do not talk down to beginning readers.  These stories have real plot lines and tell a story.  This is not one of those delightful books.  Any book needs to explain the why and how.  The reader is never told how or why Daisy woke up as a chicken; or why she turned back into a little girl that evening.  I am willing to suspend all belief if the story is good and the writer allows me to do that.	2000-10-11
US	49477922	R3BT80WTPP3P0T	0671002031	910941653	Temptation	Books	5	47	54	N	N	Even Without the Montgomerys and the Taggerts...	...we are very happy to have Jude Devearux back with another great wonderful book. Ms. Deveraux cut back on her writing schedule in order to spend more time with her new son.  I wish her every happiness, even though I have missed seeing as much of her wonderful books of late. <br /> Apparently, Ms. Deveraux has decided to not include the wonderful Montgomery/Taggert family in her sagas.  They were the people who she built all her novels around until a couple of years ago.  I kept waiting and hoping she would spring them out at the last minute or we would at least see a Montgomery across a crowded room.  Who knows, maybe Agnes was a Taggert... anyway, on to the story. <br />Temperance was a woman with a cause and purpose.  To help women in need get away from their worthless husbands and build new lives for themselves.  She was a woman in 1909 who had built her own independant life after her father died.  Imagine Temperance's surprise when her mother comes back from holiday with a real Scotsman in tow, Angus, who says she is to become a dutiful daughter and go live in the highlands.  Temperance is a bit long in the tooth, but perhaps he can pursuade some man to marry her so she can take her proper place in society and do the only thing a well-brought up woman is supposed to do-marry and have children and be happy with her lot in life.<br />Temperance is understandably very annoyed with the high-handed attitudes of her new papa and sets out to get her own way in the end.  Go she must to Scotland, after all, she doesn't have her own money.  But Temperance manages to make Angus eat his words about what a dutiful daughter should be.  After several months of her dutiful daughter routine drives him close to the brink of sanity, Angus decides to pack her off to his nephew's house to become his housekeeper and find him a bride.  And here is where the fun begins.<br />Temperance must learn some lessons of living she did not get in New York salvaging women's lives.  Temperancethinks she knows everything about what happens between men and women.  A woman must stand firm and resist a man's foolish ways.  But Temperance has never met a man like James.  <br />Read this book if you are a fan of Jude Deveraux's works over the years.  Read this book if you are a lover of romances and have yet to discover Jude Deveraux's wonderful sense of humor and of the absurd.  Then go back and read all of Ms. Deveraux's other wonderful books-for the first or fiftieth time.	2000-10-07
US	49477922	R1255UDQ3DLWRZ	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	0	0	N	N	He Does SO Tell What C.V. Stands For	One reviewer had the nerve to say S. King doesn't detail what C.V. stands for in the memoir section of his book.  He does tell.  I won't spoil it for you by telling.  What Mr. King doesn't tell is whether the teeth were real or dentures.  That is what I wanted to know.<br />This book is hugely entertaining to read.  Even if you never plan to write; read this book.  I enjoyed learning more about Mr. King's early life and his battles with alcohol and the famous accident.  He gives his fans details about his life which made him the person he is today.  I would liked to have heard more about it all.<br />The sections on writing give interesting tidbits without going into huge amounts of detail.  Mr King said for once he was going to be brief and he certainly was that.  I would liked to have learned more about where story ideas came from and what went into some of his books.  I was very interested to know how much writing he did as a child, teen and adult before &quot;Carrie&quot; ever happened.  The amount of time and energy he put into writing things which never saw print should give any hopeful aspiring writer courage to continue on.<br />I also liked hearing Mr King say that being a writer takes time every day before anything happens.  And he is totally disenchanted by people who say they want to write but don't have time to read.  I am like Mr King in this.  I do not understand people who don't read.  That is so far my being that I am actually fascinated by people who never read.  Mr King's advise of read read read and write every day was very good advise.   I liked his closed-door analogy also.<br />In short, this is a book for every S. King fan, even those who are not deeply interested in becoming writers themselves.	2000-10-06
US	49477922	R9ZACURFGSPCA	0345382315	298744764	The PMS Outlaws: An Elizabeth MacPherson Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great Return of the McPhersons	Sharyn McCrumb has outdone herself with the return of her McPherson series.  The McPherson mysteries were the first books the author became known for.  They were dropped for a number of years while she did her acclaimed Ballad series.  Now she is back to her original series with a twist.<br />For those of you not familiar with Sharyn McCrumb, she uses East TN and North Carolina as the setting for her books.  She uses familiar landscapes as background.  She takes little known facts and legends and uses them to good advantage in her books.<br />The series always circled around Elizabeth McPherson.  The series started with her romance to Cameron &amp; their adventures. Elizabeth meets Cameron in the first book, which takes place at a a Highland Games Festival. The family included Elizabeth's brother Bill and a few other cousins and assorted relatives.<br />This book alternates passages with Elizabeth, Bill and Bill's law partner, Powell's, schoolmate, who is on the run in a Thelma and Louise adventure.  I usually do not like books which skip back and forth between characters and time periods, but Sharyn makes it work.<br />Sharyn has also taken another genre no-no, she has killed off a beloved character who has been in the series from the jump and made it work.  The book opens with all this, so this is not a spoiler, but I won't tell you who the character is.  Elizabeth is so devestated about this loss, she checks herself into a mental hospital.  The famous quotes about sanity/mental health and the group discussions make one think Sharyn has either done her thorough research, or has known somebody who has taken this journey.  The descriptions of grief and depression are extremely well-done &amp; deep, but at the same time, not depressing and morbid. <br /> The book jumps from Elizabeth's daily life to Bill's daily life in the law world, complete with stuffed groundhog.  Bill and Powell buy a huge old mansion, which comes complete with the former owner, who wildly enough, manages to tie in with Elizabeth's bout of depression and the Thelma and Louise saga.<br />Sharyn McCrumb's use of language is always wonderful.  Her characters are offbeat but believable.  Who doesn't know a lawyer with a stuffed groundhog wearing a judge's robe on his filing cabinet.  I have been a fan for years.  I liked the ballad series and I loved her two mysteries set at the sci fi convention.  But I love her McPherson series the best.  I was very happy she returned to it and made it even better than before.  Bill was previously just a sidelines character, but he could now star in his own John Grishamesque novel.  Hats off to this wonderful author for another great book!	2000-09-30
US	49477922	R2MDC6BAHMR7V6	0553237187	435932333	Three Came Home	Books	4	33	38	N	N	Great Bio of POW Experience	I read this book because I saw the movie by the same title with Claudette Coberette (spelling?) from 1950.  It was a great movie that made me want to find out more about Agnes N. Keith and her family.  Upon researching her, I found out she had written several books before her war experience and several books after the war.<br />Agnes was on the island of Borneo with her husband, Harry, and toddler, George.  Harry Keith was there as part of the English government's efforts.  The Keiths knew the war was breaking out, but chose to stay in spite of the dangers.  Agnes chose to stay with her husband.  In the book she said she never regretted her choice to stay, but did wonder later on if George should have been sent out to stay with relatives.<br />The Japanese took control of the island when WWII started.  All English and Americans were rounded up and placed in prisoner of war camps.  The men and the women were separated.  Agnes and Harry did occasionally catch glimpses and stolen moments, but for the most part they were kept totally separated during the years.<br />The book details the daily life of a prisoner.  A lot of the book describes the harsh conditions, the lack of food and hygiene.  There were a lot of children in the camp.  The mothers banded together to take the best care of the children they possibly could.  A group of nuns was also in the camp and helped with the children.<br />What I found most interesting in the book was the amount of underhanded trading, bartering and smuggling which went on in the camp.  The prisoners put themselves in great danger to get extra food, clothes, to send mail in and out and to meet with their spouses.  They were afraid, but apparently not totally afraid.  The book also details their other daily efforts to keep body and soul together.  They kept gardens, picked wild berries and weeds, kept chickens under their bunk houses and other very original ways to make things better.<br />The Japanese took a greater interest in Agnesthan in her fellow prisoners because of her fame as a writer.  They tried to get her to write progoganda for them.  They also were concerned she was doing her own hidden writing.  Agnes put herself in great danger to write a continuing journal and keep it hidden.  Her effects were searched more often because of her writing.<br />This book will be of interest to anybody who is a history or biography buff.  She tells some details of the war effort.  But most of the book is her own personal story.<br />Some of the other reviews touched on the fact that her attitudes reflect the common attitudes of the 1940s and 1950s.  If bigotry and racial prejudice are a big issue with you, you may not like this book at all.  For the times, Agnes thinks of herself as very liberal and open minded.  In a time when there was a great deal of stereotyping, she is trying to be a great human.  However, when cast in our time period, she comes off as having a great deal of prejudice.  She talks about race A LOT.  And she says things which are very condescending and narrow minded.  When she see little Black children who are adopted by White missionaries she says something like, it's clear they and their forefathers are not used to using their mental capacities and it's clear they will never be able to keep up with the other children.  At the time, she was probably criticized for having Chinese, Philapino and Black friends.  But now it all sounds very antiquated.  Which is not bad, it makes us realize how far we have come in our attitudes.<br />Aside from the racial things, her writing is very descriptive and flowery.  She gets deep and philosophical about very odd everyday things and goes on and on like she is writing an essay for junior high.  That said, she is an interesting writer able to make what was no doubt a drab ugly existence very interesting.<br />Agnes Newton Keith also wrote a followup book &quot;The White Man Returns&quot; which details the Keiths life after the war when they returned to the same island.  That book doesn't have as much interesting drama, but it is still a good read.	2000-09-22
US	49477922	RB3WE4FDFU11D	0439115191	955493139	The Revelation (Animorphs, No. 45)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Marco's World Changes Again	The last few Animorph books have had some big changes in them, hinting that there will be even bigger changes yet to come in the series.  Since we  are on #45, there needs to be some changes and shake-ups, or the series  will at some point get a big dull.<br />As we already know, Marco's mom is  Visser 1.  She has been a controller for quite some time.  We have seen  Marco's anguish at knowing his mother has to suffer.  And Marco's anguish  that he cannot tell his dad that his mother is still alive.  Marco's  anguish grows when Dad marries a math teacher with a yappy poodle.  How  hard is that?  To know his mom is still alive &amp; to have to accept a new  step-mom without spilling the beans about his mother?<br />Also, in past books  Marco has had to face up to making difficult choices.  He knows the group  doubts he can keep the two sides of his life separate.  How can Marco be  expected to battle Visser 1 and be in the position of possibly having to  make the decision to kill Visser 1, when it involves his family?  In #45,  Marco is again faced with another of these impossible situations.  His dad  seems to be marked to become a controller in the near future.  Should Marco  stand by and let the last of his family taken as a controller?  If he  interferes, will he be branded as a person in the group who cannot accept  the responsiblies dumped on him?  If he tries to save his dad, does he  endanger the group?  What difficult choice will Marco have to make?  The  Chee are in this book to help out. <br /> Read this exciting book to see the  impossible choices Marco and the Animorphs are faced with.	2000-09-02
US	49477922	RXZ492IWZZ2LX	0380769840	331117572	Ashes in the Wind	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Everybody is Still Gushing After Twenty Years!	If you have read the forty something reviews you can tell this is still  such a popular book after over twenty years.  Ms. Woodiwiss is still  writing wonderful books even now.  But this still remains one of my  favorites.  Everybody has gushed, but nobody told anything about the  book..so let me try..<br />The book is set during the aftermath of the Civil  War.  The Southerners are trying to put the lives back together.  There is  still hatred and bitterness on both sides.  Most people would not dream of  marrying anybody on the opposite side.<br />Alaina MacGarren flees from her  Southern home after it is ravaged by Yankee troops.  She travels up North  to stay with her relatives. In order to escape notice, she dresses like a  ragged boy.  She stays with aunt and uncle and cousin Roberta &amp; keeps  up her boyish appearance in order to work in the Yankee hospital, where she  meets Yankee Captain Doctor Cole Latimer.  He takes pity on &quot;Al.&quot;   Roberta takes a shine for the handsome doctor &amp; tricks him into  marriage.  During this whole long situation, this very bright man, doesn't  happen to notice Al is really Alaina.<br />Needless to say, the relationship  between Al and Cole deepens and things change as his marriage to Roberts  goes downhill.  I won't go into any more details..no spoilers here. Cole  and Al/Alania are very strong- willed people used to getting their own way.   So it is a battle to the end; but a very interesting battle, to say the  least.<br />Suffice it to say, this is one of the most famous historical  romances ever.  Anybody who has read romance has read &quot;Ashes in the  Wind&quot; and &quot;Shanna.&quot;<br />Ms. Woodiwiss is one of the founders  of the modern romance.  Read this wonderful book and find out why.	2000-09-02
US	49477922	RD19CJZKJQWZO	0064407691	488122738	The Miserable Mill (A Series of Unfortunate Events, Book 4)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Gloomily Wonderful	Baudelaire twins are back for more action packed adventure.  Mr. Snicket delivers again.  The beleagured orphans are packed off to boarding  school...if you thought they were actually going to get an  education..wrong!  They have to sleep in a shed because well, they don't  have parents to sign the forms for the regular rooms.  So they put up with  toe-snapping crabs and gunk dripping from the ceiling.  But all is not  lost.  The orphans meet other orphans who have more problems than they  do..orphaned triplets who have lost a sibling.  I liked these new orphans.   They will have to figure into future books...read on to see why-no  spoilers!<br />The vice-principal is everything dastardly.  There is nothing  worse than listening to somebody play the violin who cannot play.  Imagine  having to attend evening concerts with him endlessly playing...gimpla, says  Sunnie,  which means here, ugh!<br />I have read past reviews in which some  whiner parents have said these books are depressing and unsavory.  Well,  these are the sort of cake-eaters who just don't get it!  It is all too  wild to be taken seriously by anybody but the most literal stick in the mud  folks.  I mean, the baby, Sunnie, has to become the secretary to the vice  principal and make her own staples! LOL!  And in one class all they do is  measure stuff all the time.  These are great dismal fun for the Roald Dahl  &amp; Edward Gorey lovers of the world.  You cannot say you were not  warned.  Mr. Snicket tells the reader on the first page that if you want a  nice cheery book about rolicking good times to find another book.  If you  read it, no whining.	2000-09-02
US	49477922	R30CY0AMUE2XRA	0141304278	866508991	Which Witch?	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Cute Fantasy Witch Book	The front covers says &quot;if you like Harry Potter, you will like this book.&quot;  Everybody who ever wrote a kid's book or uttered the word  &quot;muggle,&quot; is trying to cash in on Harry Potter's book.  This is a  cute funny book, but it really has nothing to do with Harry Potter.  And  there probably won't be a 730 page sequel to it...<br />That said, this book  has a lot going for it.  The language is very funny.  The witches and  warlocks are a real hoot. <br /> When the main warlock in the story is born,  the parents are just regular parents.  They hope for a baby like any other  parent would hope for.  What becomes apparent very quickly is that he is a  warlock.  His parents give into this and he gets to be creepy from the very  jump.<br />What is funny is that he embraces his duty to be a creepy warlock  and live in a castle and cast spells on unsuspecting people.  He also takes  his duty very seriously that he must marry a local witch and reproduce.  So  a contest is held.  All the local witches turn out.  They are a scary &amp;  hilarious group complete with hairy moles, scuzzy hair, and brooms, which  makes his duty all the more painful, for the warlock cuts a dashing figure.   The witches all have weird familiars with them.  One's familiar is a box  of maggots who keep growing up, turning into flys and buzzing around her.   One old witch is a bit senile and keeps turning herself into a coffee  table.  Then she forgets how to change back, so she just sits around as a  coffee table.<br />I won't tell you how the contest turns out or who gets to  be the new love in our warlock's life.  No spoilers.  It is a funny book  kids (and grownups) will enjoy.  It is rather in the spirit of Roald Dahl.   And read &quot;Platform 39&quot; by this same author also.  It is a very  different book, but just as good.	2000-09-02
US	49477922	R21R7LS9JJFMFI	0870493221	798659317	Tennessee'S Presidents: Tennessee Three Star Series (Tennessee Three Star Books)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deeply Insightful Book	I enjoy reading history books.  This has to be one of my all time favorite history books.  The fact that many years after its publication, it is still in print speaks to its continuing popularity.<br />If you are interested in  presidential history, this is the book for you.  Dr. Williams has done a  lot of intense research about the U.S. presidents who hail from Tennessee.	2000-05-25
