US	49476244	R4QJRZPG2HKDA	0812973011	802201377	Mountains Beyond Mountains	Books	5	8	10	N	N	An impressive, readable biography on an inspiration	Tracy Kidder, in his telling of the life and work of Dr. Paul Farmer \\"Mountains Beyond Mountains,\\" gives readers a multi-dimensional look at a man whose accomplishments are amazing and whose heart seems to know no boundaries.  It is easy to tell that Kidder did his research - on the subjects that were discussed in the book (such as multi-drug resistant tuberculosis or Haitian politics) and on the subject of the book: Farmer.  He interviewed numerous people including Farmer's relatives, friends, students, colleagues, and teachers, and included his impressions of his interactions with Farmer to give quite a comprehensive picture of such an important figure in public health, global health, and medicine.  He also followed Farmer to places like Haiti, Peru, Russia, and Boston to show while Farmer's \\"roots\\" were in Haiti his concern for the poor was global.   <br /> <br />In the book, there is an anecdote about a sign Kidder sees in one of the offices of Partners in Health (an organization that was co-founded by Farmer) that says: \\"If Paul is the model, we're golden\\" and that underneath the word \\"golden\\" there was another word underneath on another sheet of paper that had the word \\"f**ked\\" to give an alternative quote: \\"If Paul is the model, we're f**ked.\\"  I believe that this anecdote aptly describes how I felt as I read \\"Mountains Beyond Mountains.\\"  While I know that I could never do the things Farmer has done, I felt inspired to make a difference my own way.  Farmer's story is one of compassion, drive, and of helping lives that inspires people to make their own contributions to causes they believe in.   <br /> <br />This book is very accessible and its subject matter fascinating.  I give it a full five stars!	2005-01-16
US	49476244	R2L5FVB76F67P7	051513449X	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter: Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An action-packed page-turner.	Laurell Hamilton's \\"Guilty Pleasures\\" is definitely a \\"pleasure\\" to read.  It is fast-paced and straight to the point, just like her main character, Anita Blake, the animator/vampire hunter.  Anita is hired (somewhat against her will) to investigate a series of vampire murders.  Her client is the most powerful vampire in the city whose need for Anita's talent surpasses the desire she has to destroy her.  In an exciting series of events, Anita recruits the assistance of humans, wereanimals, and vampires but, as the ending proves, Anita works on her own.  Hamilton creates an interesting alternative world where we are \\"not alone\\": there are vampires, ghouls, zombies, wereanimals, and humans who coexist and even interact.  Hamiliton also creates a main character who can be admired for her physical and emotional strength, as well as her vulnerabities which makes her character a lot more believable.   <br /> <br />I have not met a person who read the book and did not like it! <br />	2005-01-06
US	49476244	RV3Y7HTKCG5XN	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	5	5	5	N	N	When culture and medicine collide	Anne Fadiman's \\"The Spirit Catches You and You Fall Down\\" is an engaging read that describes the trials of a Hmong family dealing with their daughter's illness, the American doctors who try to help her, and their cultural collisions.  Fadiman uses a Hmong storytelling tool, \\"speaking of all kinds of things,\\" to provide a rich account of Lia Lee incorporating history, mythology and folklore, anthropology, psychology, politics, and more to give the readers a greater understanding of the culture of Lia and her family and how they came to America.  Her narrative is not only culturally sensitive (to both the Hmong and the Western doctors) but also fair.  It is impressive in its depth and noble in its efforts to advocate \\"cultural brokering\\" in medicine.  Fadiman's writing style is informative, compassionate, and very thought-provoking.  This book is a must read for anyone interested in culture and medicine and is an important work, especially in a world where cultures meet and often collide.	2004-12-17
US	49476244	R14QC1MNBRGX6Z	1563706342	745758428	The Quick Resume & Cover Letter Book: Write & Use an Effective Resume in Only One Day	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The first book you should read on resumes	If you're only going to read one book on resumes, J. Michael Farr's \\"The Quick Resume & Cover Letter Book\\" should be the one you choose.  Farr's no-nonsense, well-organized approach to writing resumes is refreshing as well as enlightening.  He advocates taking an active role in job searching (and starting as soon as possible), as reflected in this quick tips on how to use his book and the first chapter, which focuses on creating a same-day resume.  Farr clearly distinguishes chronological resumes from skills (functional) resumes, giving reasons to use either one and giving many examples of effective sample resumes.  He includes several useful worksheets and lists of skills which help you identify what skills you have (and which ones you want to use) and list experiences that reflect your skills.  These worksheets are not only helpful in writing resumes but also in interviews - Farr claims that most employers say that interviewees do not clearly explain what their skills are.   <br /> <br />While the first section of the book aims to get you started on a good basic resume, the second section focuses on how you can make the resume even better.  Those who are crunched for time should definitely read the first section. Farr also includes information on JIST cards, job search letters (including cover letters), a varied collection of resumes, and his list of seven steps to getting a job as soon as possible.  At the end, there is a list of resume contributors who also offer resume-writing services. <br /> <br />While I found some of Farr's suggestions a little intimidating (e.g. cold-calling a potential employer to talk about how you can contribute to their organization - even if they aren't hiring), I realize that actively searching for job opportunities you will likely lead to finding the job I'm looking for (while creating networking contacts).  This book is a well-written gem, and I would recommend it to anyone who's looking for a new job or a career change.	2004-12-01
US	49476244	R1DOIEA50QSE4S	0865714428	739251957	The Better World Handbook : From Good Intentions to Everyday Actions	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An invaluable resource	Want to make a difference but don't know where to begin?  Try reading \\"The Better World Handbook\\" by  Ellis Jones, Ross Haenfler, Brett Johnson, and Brian Klocke.  They offer a variety of actions on issues like poverty, environmental damage, and free trade that you can incorporate into your life.  What's great about this book is that you can pick and choose what works for you at the moment - there are suggested actions that may not seem doable now but you can probably do later.  You don't have agree with each issue the authors describe and suggest actions for, and the authors make a good attempt at avoiding a self-righteous tone.  I have notes and have highlighted what actions I can manage, and will keep referring to this list (probably on the new year's eves to come).   <br /> <br />The authors first explain our culture of cynicism and define the 7 most common traps that prevent people from taking action on issues they care about.  I found this especially revealing as I have often caught myself in one or more of those traps.  They then describe the seven foundations of a better world (economic fairness, comprehensive peace, ecological sustainability, deep democracy, social justice, culture of simplicity, and revitalized community) and have a list of references on each foundation.   What follows are numerous actions regarding money (e.g. banking), shopping, food, personal living and relationships, community, home, work, media, politics, transportation, and travel.  Some of the website links they include are not up-to-date, so I strongly recommend doing a search on the organizations mentioned and trying to find similar links and organizations.   <br /> <br />This book is a starting point and can inspire other actions that are not included in the book.  Reading \\"The Better World Handbook\\" is an invaluable first step to realizing that one person can really make a difference.	2004-11-19
US	49476244	R2XY6TVDTYOYVD	027597541X	279979620	Clean Living Movements: American Cycles of Health Reform	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An enlightened view on American health reform history	There are several books published that aim to describe the history of public health in America.  These books are often filled with dates and facts and struggle to separate themselves from books on the history of medicine.  Ruth Clifford Engs' \\"Clean Living Movements\\", while a book on the history of public health, is not one of those books. <br /> <br />Engs describes the history of public health in the United States clearly and concisely as a series of 3 distinct health reform cycles (1830 - 1860, 1880 - 1920, and 1970 - 2005).  Each cycle has ebbed and flowed, and each cycle has followed the same order of stages: moral suasion, coercion, backlash, and complacency.  Engs gives the reader a well-organized outline of each \\"clean living movement\\" with enough supporting facts on the religious, political, technological, economic, cultural, and demographic changes surrounding each cycle that influenced views on health and health reform, making it unique (and sometimes similar) to the other cycles.  Some topics she discusses are smoking, alcohol and drug consumption, exercise, eugenics, and sexuality.  She also describes prominent health reformers in each cycle in detail. <br /> <br />This is my favorite book on public health history to date, as it is very easy to read and Engs strongly and clearly makes her case of the cyclical nature of health reform.  It is well-organized, simply written, and well-researched.  This text is quite sociological, historical, and anthropological, making it accessible to diverse readers, and includes an exhaustive list of references.	2004-11-19
US	49476244	R12HQQCJK0POEH	0763725943	713549522	Introduction to Public Health	Books	4	19	19	N	N	A good place to start	Mary-Jane Schneider's \\"Introduction to Public Health\\" is just what she claims it is - an introduction.  The book is a very concisely and clearly-written overview on a range of public health topics such as water quality, epidemiology, and chronic diseases.  Schneider divides the book into seven parts that look at the definition of public health, analytical methods of public health, public health's  biomedical basis, social and behavioral factors, environmental issues, medical care, and the future of public health.  The book should be valued not for its depth but its breadth - Schneider does cover a variety of important public health topics but she does not go into great detail.  Including a list of resources or suggested reading at the end of each chapter would have been greatly appreciated.  However, to Schneider's credit, the book does have cute illustrations and includes numerous charts, graphs, and discussion questions at the end of every chapter.  The book is also very readable and isn't as daunting or dry as some other public health textbooks.  This book is a great complement to Bernard Turnock's introduction to public health, as Turnock does go into some of the nitty gritty of public health but doesn't cover as many issues as Schneider does.	2004-11-19
US	49476244	RIEF6KKCRTRA3	0375432302	315416156	The Da Vinci Code (Large Print)	Books	5	22	34	N	N	A Thrilling Read	My opinions on this book are based solely on the book's writing style and plot. I don't know the accuracy of the claims in the book and I find them irrelevant in that I consider this book a work of fiction meant solely to entertain. The author only mentions that the societies mentioned in the book (the Priory of Scion and Opus Dei) are real societies.<br /><br />The Da Vinci Code is a thrilling roller-coaster ride of events that surprise the reader at every corner. Brown often ends his chapters on a suspenseful note which leaves the reader anxious to read on. He starts off the novel with the murder of Jacques Sauniere, a prominent man working at the Louvre. The plot continues as Sauniere leaves a message for his granddaughter Sophie Neveu and Harvard professor Robert Langdon at the scene of his death. Neveu and Langdon are sent on a sort of treasure hunt (where symbols and clues are everywhere they turn) to learn why Sauniere and others have been killed and to find the Holy Grail.<br /><br />I find that the plot is excellent in terms of its riveting sequence of events. I found myself involved, trying to figure out the clues along with the characters. Some of the things Neveu and Langdon find are very controversial. But, they don't shatter any beliefs I had before. If anything, the claims about the church and about Jesus make me want to investigate the issues for myself.<br /><br />For readers who can get past the controversial nature of the book, this is a suspenseful page-turner that keeps you hanging every step of the way.	2004-07-30
US	49476244	RF6LIZ0970DRC	0385319940	180829311	Do They Hear You When You Cry	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Told by a natural storyteller	Fauziya Kassindja grew up in an idyllic environment in Togo but her world was turned upside down when her father passed away.  Her father had denied tradition by refusing to allow his daughters to be circumcised and he believed in providing his daughters (especially Kassidja) with an education.  After his death, Kassidja's aunt and uncle took charge and decided to have Kassidja marry a successful older man (who already had 3 wives) and to have her undergo female circumcision in order to please her husband.  With the help of her family, she escapes to Germany and decides to start a new life as an asylum seeker in the United States.  However, when she stepped off the plane and onto American soil, the true horror began.  <br />&quot;Do They Hear You When You Cry&quot; is a very personal account of Kassindja's ordeals and her ultimate triumph.  It is as though Kassindja is in the room with you, telling you her story.  While this may not make the writing style especially sensational, it makes it come to life for the readers. I couldn't put the book down!  Kassindja, coming from a culture where privacy and modesty are valued, goes out of her way to share what she has gone through in order to educate (about female circumsion and about our immigration policies) and to drive people to action.  While her story can break your heart, it can also give you an immense hope in the will and kindness of people, and shows how people can prevail.  <br />I believe that everyone has a right to tell their own story, and Kassindja's story is one that should definitely not be missed!	2004-07-06
US	49476244	RHKNS0M23SKYV	0812217462	144606764	The Female Circumcision Controversy: An Anthropological Perspective	Books	5	9	9	N	N	An excellent introduction to female circumcision	In \\"The Female Circumcision Controversy,\\" Ellen Gruenbaum provides readers with a highly informative anthropological perspective on female circumcision that is not weighed down with anthropological jargon, making it highly accessible to the \\"average\\" reader.  She takes on a cultural relativistic point of view, exploring female circumcision through the context of the different cultures in which it is practiced, highlighting how it can be affected by patriarchy, ritual, marriage, mortality, ethnicity, sexuality, and economic development.  An important point that Gruenbaum stresses is that while female circumcision has been practiced by many cultural and ethnic groups, the practices themselves vary (i.e. what is removed in surgery, at what age circumcision occurs, etc.) and this point makes it hard to generalize and blame only one factor for female circumcision.  She includes her experiences in the Sudan and at the end of the book discusses how female circumcision practices are changing and the how we in the international community can get involved. <br />Gruenbaum does not condone female circumcision but she believes that many anti-circumcision advocates have taken the wrong approach to fighting the harmful practice.  She stresses the need for discussion (not one-sided lecturing) and the fact that other problems such as economic insecurity and education need to be addressed so women will not feel as compelled to continue female circumcision.  While a lot needs to be done to ensure that women's rights are not infringed upon, Gruenbaum gives the reader hope by showing many cases of progress.<br />This book is a gem!  It has also made me rethink some things that I thought were \\"normal\\" in my culture.	2004-06-30
US	49476244	R15UA6I72F9DDS	0684822709	522258161	Man and Microbes: Disease and Plagues in History and Modern Times	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A Fascinating and Frightening History of Disease	Arno Karlen's &quot;Man and Microbes&quot; is an informative and well-written account of the history of disease that is accessible to specialists and non-specialists alike.  It is well-researched and it is written in the natural style of a storyteller.  Karlen covers a wide span of time, starting off about five million years ago when our ancestors descended from the trees to the ground and finishing in the 1990s.  He looks at a range of diseases, including the Mystery Disase of Pudoc, influenza, Lyme Disease, and AIDS, and looks at them through the themes of change (changes in environment, technology, interaction/behavior, lifestyle) and adaptation (human adaptation to disease and vice versa).  Karlen ends the book on a hopeful note, and reminds the reader that while history shows so many instances of disease it also shows many instances of humans adapting to and dealing with disease.  <br />I was a little initimidated about reading this book, since I have a pathetic knowledge of science.  However, I found the book very readable and I can honestly say that I have a greater appreciation for science and for the human ability to survive after having read the book.  A must-read!	2004-06-15
US	49476244	R22EMVC240SMO7	0824826795	297710121	The Blessings of Bhutan (A Latitude 20 Book)	Books	5	37	37	N	N	An Intriguing Introduction to Bhutan	\\"The Blessings of Bhutan\\" is a personal and fascinating compilation of very short, and very readable, essays (or \\"sketches\\") about authors Russ and Blyth Carpenter's experiences and understanding of Bhutanese life.  The book is separated into eight parts covering Bhutanese culture and geography; ancient Bhutanese religion and its relationship to Buddhism and Bhutanese archery; Tantric Buddhism; Bhutanese art and medicine; reincarnation (especially as it applies to the environment); sexuality in Bhutanese culture; women in Bhutan; and the Carpenter's reflections on Bhutan's policy of \\"Gross National Happiness\\" and on Bhutan's future.  The book also has a very useful glossary of terms that makes reading much easier as well as a recommending reading list.<br />The authors' love and admiration of Bhutan and Bhutanese people is very apparent in their sketches.  While many things about Bhutan can easily baffle a tourist (like the almost contradictory sexual attitude of the Bhutanese or the concept of \\"Gross National Happiness\\"), they explain these things in terms of the Bhutanese culture.  I found the book extremely easy to read and engaging, and appreciated the experiences the Carpenters shared as well as the facts.  You can read the book back to front or just skip around and read about which aspects of the culture you're interested in.  <br />This is the first book I have read about Bhutan, and I'm glad I got it!	2004-06-08
US	49476244	R20RH6RFSQCFD	0935028927	720813829	Shafted: Free Trade & America's Working Poor	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Another winner from Food First Books	&quot;Shafted&quot; is an easy-to-read and powerful window into the human side of the effects of free trade. It's one thing to read statistics and another to hear stories directly from those affected. The book is based on a congressional briefing in Washington D.C. where a delegation of America's working poor was able to tell members of Congress and the American public how free trade has impacted their lives. &quot;Shafted&quot; is separated into four parts: Farmers, Workers, Farmworkers, and Analysts. What is great about the book is that it includes stories and analyses from people of different backgrounds, including racial, ethnic, and work backgrounds. I especially liked the contributions in the Analysts section (the analysts coming from the Public Citizen organization, Cornell University, American Federation of Labor and Congress of Industrial Organizations, and California Senate Select Committee on International Trade). I found them accessible and to the point, lacking loads of economic and political jargon. Throughout the book you'll also find short excerpts from important historic documents such as the Universal Declaration of Human Rights, International Covenant on Civil Political Rights, American Declaration of the Rights and Duties of Man. <br />This is an important book that addresses a growing menace in our society and in the international arena. It does not provide a suggested plan of action, however it does include resources to further educate yourself and to get involved. <br />&quot;Shafted&quot; is a quick and powerful read that'll open your eyes to another side of America that we hardly get the chance to hear from. And it shows how people are bravely standing up for what they believe it. An invaluable book!	2004-05-12
US	49476244	R28CDC7YTVESPM	0964948826	110002235	Inside a U.S. Embassy: How the Foreign Service Works for America	Books	4	39	39	N	N	Very informative	\\"Inside a U.S. Embassy\\" is a great start in learning more about the Foreign Service, focusing on the individuals who serve the United States from abroad.  It covers a diverse group of people and is quite easy to read.  The book is divided into three parts.  Part 1 consists of profiles of Foreign Service employees in \\"each type of position in a typical U.S. embassy,\\" including Ambassador, Political Officer, Consular Officer, Office Management Specialist, and Foreign Service National.  The profiles included are of both men and women who have served in different parts of the world.  However, like a previous reviewer, I wonder if they could have chosen to do a profile of a Junior Officer that is more consistent with what Junior Officers are expected to do.  She didn't seem so \\"junior\\" to me!  Part 2 consists of one-day hour-by-hour journals from embassy staff around the world.  I liked the fact that they included the journal of a Foreign Service spouse, since families also play a large role in the Foreign Service.  The most personal, and fascinating, part was Part 3, which has \\"tales from the field\\" from Foreign Service staff with experiences including the evacuation of an embassy (Pakistan), the assassination of an ambassador (Afghanistan), a coup (Guinea-Bissau), and organizing a Little League in the Ukraine.  Also included in the book are a map of Department of State locations and a list of foreign affairs and Foreign Service resources.<br />Being curious about what the Public Diplomacy section does, I was a little confused about finding the term &quot;Public Diplomacy&quot; in only one place in the book (in the &quot;Embassy Flow Chart&quot;) and instead finding a profile of a &quot;Public Affairs Officer.&quot;  While I'm assuming a Public Affairs Officer works in the Public Diplomacy section, what's the difference between a Public Affairs Officer and a Public Diplomacy Officer (a term used on the Department of State website).  A minor gripe.<br />Also, I would have found a general introduction to the structure of an embassy (i.e. a description of the different sections - Consular, Economic, Political, Public Diplomacy, and Administrative) really useful.  On the cover of the book, it says \\"How the Foreign Service Works for America.\\"  I'm quite satisfied with the profiles and comments from actual Foreign Service Officers and Foreign Service Specialists; however, I think that in order to get a better picture of what they do, we should be informed about the structure of the organization they work for and how they got their start.	2004-05-09
US	49476244	R2KVJ10S29JO06	4789009637	85395771	An Integrated Course in Elementary Japanese, Vol. 1 (English and Japanese Edition)	Books	5	96	99	N	N	The first Japanese book you should buy	My Japanese teacher used this book in our classes and it was an excellent choice.  It can easily be used for self-study, especially if used with the CDs.  Each lesson starts out with a dialog and is followed by a vocabulary list, grammar explanations, and vocabulary/grammar practice.  The grammar is explained very clearly and the practice exercises are very useful for remembering what is being taught.  One drawback: no answers are given.  The vocabulary lists are not always comprehensive but they give lots of useful vocabulary.  Several topics are covered including shopping, talking about family, travel, daily routines, and health.  The book also includes lessons on Katakana, Hiragana, and Kanji.  <br />I took the Japanese Language Proficiency Test (Level 4) after 5 months studying with this book and passed.  The Kanji included was very useful as were the grammar points and vocabulary.  If you can, I recommend getting the CDs and the workbook.  The CDs are excellent.  You can practice pronunciation with the dialogs and vocabulary lists and the CDs also include listening exercises for the text and workbook.  The workbook covers more grammar and vocabulary as well as Kanji, Katakana, and Hiragana practice.<br />This is the best Japanese textbook I've encountered.  It is well organized and relevant.  I give it 5 stars without hesitation!	2004-04-20
US	49476244	R2R1VXPJIMI5E7	0060083816	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned (Don't Know Much About Series)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A good reference book	When I bought this book I was looking for an easy-to-read introduction to American history.  This book was highly recommended to me.  The format is interesting; its chapters are separated into time periods and Davis approaches his history as a series of answers to questions like: &quot;What was the Bill of Rights&quot; and &quot;Who was right?  The Warren Commission or Oliver Stone?.&quot;  This format makes this book perfect for readers who have a question about a certain event or person and for trivia buffs (like the person who recommended the book to me in the first place).  I read the book front to back and I was sometimes confused about the chronology of events, since this book is not your typical chronological narrative.  However, I have to give credit to Davis for including several timelines which I found useful in two respects: (1) it gives a sense of order to all the information he gives; (2) it gives a straightfoward, no-nonsense outline of events without all the extra (and sometimes distracting) details.  He also includes interesting quotes from interesting people such as Meriwether Lewis, Malcolm X, and Helen Keller, and recommendations for further reading.  Davis adds life and wit to his account of American history, which is highly accessible and straight-forward.  I definitely learned a lot from this book!	2004-04-10
US	49476244	RSA2H471PRN6H	0192828398	368709926	Twenty Thousand Leagues Under the Sea (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Great Escape into Another World	Jules Vernes captures our imaginations in his tale of adventure and science.  The narrator, Dr. Arronax, is a French naturalist who goes on an expedition to hunt down a mysterious sea creature spotted by many sailors.  However, in an interesting turn of events, he finds out that the enigma that roamed the oceans is in fact a futuristic submarine (the Nautilus) built by Captain Nemo.  Dr. Annonax, along with his Flemish companion Conseil and Canadian harpooner Ned Land, are held hostage on the Nautilus and through their time aboard they experience the great wonders of the seas.  Giant squids, ice caps, pearl hunts, close calls with Papuan natives, are only a fraction of the exciting events they experience.  <br />Using Arronax as the narrator, Verne gives us a look into the mysteries of the deep seas.  While Arronax often gets carried away labeling and categorizing sea life, it makes the narrative seem more authentic.  I felt a little cheated about not learning the life story of the brilliant and enigmatic Captain Nemo.  We learn that he is driven by revenge, yet we don't know exactly why and who is his unfortunate target.  However, this lack of revelation allows the reader to create his/her own theories, which can be quite fun.<br />This book may not be for action junkies, as shown by previous reviews.  However, I recommend this book to readers who are curious about the unknown with an interest in science.  It is an interesting and very creative read, and should not be missed!	2004-03-31
US	49476244	R3K23OOY0GQFDT	0028643747	255105475	The Complete Idiot's Guide To Personal Finance in Your 20s and 30s (2nd Edition)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A good guide to personal finance	Fisher and Shelly have written a great guide to personal finance, covering bank accounts (and how not all banks are the same), credit cards, renting a home, getting a car, savings, budgets, savings, investments, taxes, insurace, retirement, financial advisors, and buying a home.  While it talks about a lot, the authors consistently try to use simple and easy-to-understand examples and lots of examples.  <br />Some of the topics I felt didn't relate to me at this time (e.g. buying a house), so I either skimmed them or skipped them.  What's great about this book is that you can just pick and choose what you want to know about.  I recommend the chapters on bugeting, investments, savings, and credit cards.  Some of the chapters overwhelmed me (e.g. those on investments and mortgages) but I did learn the basics.  And if I forgot what some things were, I could easily look at the glossary or skim through the chapter again.<br />The book also includes useful websites, books, magazines, and periodicals.  <br />The main point that Fisher and Shelly focus on is that it is never too late (or too early) to learn about personal finance and that while you should live your life, you should also worry about the future.  They don't tell you what to do and try to give the pros and cons for different options (e.g. of mutual funds, stocks, and bonds).<br />You should definitely read this book... Let it be the start of your journey to a better financial future, but not the end.	2004-02-04
US	49476244	R3IHLKY7G6LESR	0451524934	337991686	1984 (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A possible world	I was one of the many people who had to read 1984 as a high school student.  However a few weeks ago, I decided to read it again.  And I was amazed about how much I enjoyed it when I didn't have to worry about writing an essay on it.  George Orwell did a fantastic job creating a world where there is no love, no warmth or anything that resembles humanity.  Winston Smith, the main character, feels trapped in Oceania, a dire place where words are cut from the language to limit the thoughts of citizens, cameras and microphones are everywhere to monitor your actions, and where children will call their parents traitors and turn them in to authorities.  Winston manages to find joy in trinkets he buys from a prole's shop and from a woman he falls in love with.  And he finds hope in the form of O'Brien, the one man who he thinks understands him.  However, in Oceania nothing good lasts for long.<br /><br />The thought that Orwell put into the plot, characters, and the setting is considerable.  He explains different facets of Oceanic history and society (especially through &quot;Goldstein's book&quot;,) and even includes an appendix explaining &quot;newspeak,&quot; the language of Oceania (which I recommend reading after the first few chapters).  The scary thing about the book is that many elements of the Inner Party and Ingsoc are real and are relevant today.  Read this book to see one view of how life can be like if we forget ourselves and put our futures completely in the hands of others.	2003-11-03
US	49476244	R24OGCATRGT2U7	1880656183	892155932	Kana Pict-o-Graphix: Mnemonics for Japanese Hiragana and Katakana	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Great Start	I got this book, along with Rowley's &quot;Kanji Pictographix,&quot; as a gift before I moved to Japan.  This book was a very useful tool in remembering Katakana and Hiragana.  It's small so it's easy to carry around in your pocket or bag.  The book is organized according to the Japanese alphabet.  (For example, it starts with &quot;AH,&quot; &quot;EE,&quot; &quot;U,&quot; &quot;EI,&quot; and &quot;O&quot;).  On one page, you get to see both the Katakana and Hiragana for each sound.  Some of the mnemonic images Rowley uses are easier to remember than others.  My recommendation on how to use this book: Study one of the syllabaries first (Katakana or Hiragana).  I studied Katakana first because all borrowed words are written in Katakana (and the letters are just strokes, compared to the more squiggly Hiragana).  Study five sounds (e.g. KA, KII, KU, KEI, KO) at one time.  If the mnemonic picture that Rowley uses doesn't click with you, then try to create your own.  It really helps to write down the kana as well; however, this book does not show stroke order. It also helps to see the kana used in actual Japanese words (which this book also doesn't do).  While I remembered a lot of the kana, it wasn't until I arrived in Japan and kept trying to read Japanese signs that I really became successful in reading Hiragana and Katakana.  Use this book as a starting point, but don't let it be the only book you use to learn or remember kana.	2003-10-26
US	49476244	R130K7RQKB4E0P	055334949X	109024298	Even Cowgirls Get the Blues	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Prepare to be Surprised and Amazed	Calling \\"Even Cowgirls Get the Blues\\" an interesting book wouldn't do Tom Robbins justice.  It is strange, unique, surprising, poetic, philosophical, and lots of fun.  The star of Robbins' production is Sissy Hankshaw, a woman born with over-sized thumbs.  Sissy turns her \\"deformity\\" into a tool that gives her live meaning, i.e. through hitchhiking.  After living a life of constant motion, she is introduced to Julian Gitche, a man crazy in love with her who wants her to settle down and give up her extraordinary gift of hitchhiking.  But she soon finds out that she is not destined to live an ordinary life.  The descriptions Robbins uses are quite amazing and original.  He also goes into great depth about philosophical issues that one might think are completely irrelevant to the plot of this novel.  Sissy is on a quest to find the meaning and purpose of life, and I think that by pondering on different issues Robbins is allowing us to be a part of her quest.  He says some fascinating things (e.g. one of his characters, interestingly called \\"Dr. Robbins,\\" calls in well at work... how brilliant!  Someday I should call in well!), and even though I am far from philosophical Robbins has made me re-think some ideas I had about many things.  There are some sex scenes in the book, including lesbian ones, which may offend some people.  I don't think that they are inappropriate or offensive - I think that they focus more on the joy and freedom of human interaction.  While I prefer the plot of \\"Skinny Legs and All,\\" \\"Even Cowgirls Get the Blues\\" is a must-read just for its bizarre descriptions, interesting takes on life, and just for having fun.	2003-07-28
US	49476244	R3K5E274H2XX2Q	0895267152	594682043	Kokoro	Books	5	5	6	N	N	An excellent read	&quot;Kokoro&quot; is an excellent read: the writing style is poetic, yet simple, and the characters have great depth.  The narrator meets a man he calls &quot;Sensei&quot; at a beach and they form a bond that one might call a friendship.  Yet no matter how hard the narrator tries to understand the mysterious man, Sensei refuses to let the boy break down his defenses.  Then the narrator leaves Tokyo to visit his ill father and receives a letter from Sensei that describes his life and reason for his despondent nature.<br />While the story ends tragically, it seems like the only ending possible that releases the agony of the characters.  Sensei may appear to be an insensitive, heartless man in the beginning yet his testament shows much he cares.  It shows how a man can have so much passion for life, for loved ones, yet at the same time can be conflicted with guilt, distrust, and despair.	2003-03-09
US	49476244	R3FOKMYSXZ4V11	1880656116	303084942	Make a Mil-Yen: Teaching English in Japan	Books	5	11	11	N	N	An excellent place to start	I am currently researching teaching opportunities in Japan, and they are plentiful.  While I have yet to go to Japan, reading Don Best's book has answered a lot of questions I had had (e.g. how can one afford to live in Japan?).  It includes information on the English industry in Japan, qualifications for teaching, suggested preparation before leaving for Japan, finding jobs, surviving in Japan, the interview (including hints on creating a demonstration lesson), pay, work visas, and settling in.  <br />One concern I had was that this book was written in 1994.  I wrote to two address in the book and both letters were sent back to me claiming the addresses were incorrect.  I suggest checking (possibly through internet searches) addresses before writing to them.  There are also a lot of informative websites to check out.  If you are looking to get hired from outside Japan, look for websites of these employers: Aeon, Nova, Geos, Berlitz, and ECC.  <br />Overall, this book seems like an excellent place to start if you're interested in teaching English in Japan.  Even if some of the information may be outdated, it answers a lot of questions that readers will have about teaching in Japan and about Japan itself.	2003-01-11
US	49476244	R3A6VAHFTS0J8I	0609809547	96463930	Tales of a Female Nomad: Living at Large in the World	Books	5	104	117	N	N	A Tribute to Wanderlust and Humanity	Gelman's book, \\"Tales of a Female Nomad,\\" is a testament to the human spirit, courage, and to our basic need to connect with others.  It is a very personal account of her life as she goes through a divorce and discovers her individual self, without her husband, and through her numerous adventures.  She goes to many places: Mexico, Guatemala, Nicaragua, Israel, Galapagos Islands, Indonesia, New Zealand, Canada, and Thailand.  What surprises me about Gelman's style is her very personal approach.  She reveals intimate details, especially about fears and insecurities, which made me I more and more drawn to her story.  It is though she is inviting the reader to be a friend and to share her experiences.  She travels unconventionally - without much of a plan and not just to capital cities.  Her stories of the people she has met warms the heart and reveals a beautiful humanity that is shared among all cultures.<br />This book is wonderful for anyone, but I strongly recommend it to women all ages and walks of life.  Shows how one can live their dream and take the road not taken.	2002-12-28
US	49476244	RMX67A910W8T6	1573440914	72629632	Death of the Good Doctor: Lessons from the Heart of the AIDS Epidemic	Books	5	4	4	N	N	The Birth of a Remarkable Doctor	This is one of the most touching, beautiful books I have ever read.  Scannell shares her life with her readers and honors the memories of her AIDS patients through her her series of \\"anecdotes.\\"  Each chapter is a different story, or memory, making it easy to read over a span of a week or more, or even in a day.  In it, she touches upon a variety of issues like healthcare, sexuality, gender, death, family, and fear and she talks about her evolving from a good doctor (i.e. seeing the patient's physical needs) to a compassionate doctor (treating the patient holistically and considering their emotional needs).<BR>In the last chapter she reflects on her five years of experience on an AIDS ward and how it helps her cope with her discovery that she has cancer.<BR>     When I read this book, I felt like she was next to me in person telling me these stories.  I laughed; I got sad; I felt hopeful.  This is a testament to human life, and I would recommend this easy read to anyone.	2002-10-31
US	49476244	R3VZJNHEEEW8R1	0312243359	601276911	We Wish to Inform You That Tomorrow We Will be Killed With Our Families: Stories from Rwanda	Books	5	12	13	N	N	More than an important book	\\"Odette nodded at my notebook, where I was writing as she spoke.  'Do the people in America really want to read this?  People tell me to write these things down, but it's written inside of me.  I almost hope for the day when I can forget.'\\"  Gourevitch, p. 238.<br />Philip Gourevitch's \\"We wish to inform you that tomorrow we will be killed with our families\\" is more an important book - it is a testament to humanity.  Gourevitch tells the story surrounding the 1994 genocide in Rwanda through historical facts and personal accounts, including his own.  His work provokes many emotions: anger, despair, sadness, and finally, hope.  It reflects on the chain of events that caused neighbors who had lived together peacefully for centuries to hack each other to death and on the international community's failure to help, especially after it claimed that genocide will \\"never again\\" happen after the Holocaust.  However, interwoven in the horrifying accounts of death and the shameful negligence of the international community are stories of hope and strength that shows the beauty of a scarred people.    <br />Rwandan history is an often overlooked chapter in our history that needs to be told.  Gourevitch does an excellent job in doing this, and by reading his work readers can listen to people whose story would otherwise never be heard.	2002-09-28
US	49476244	R2E343OVLMAP2Z	0553377884	466338532	Skinny Legs and All	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Skinny Legs and More	This is my first Tom Robbins book, and it is probably one of the most unusual and unpredictable books I have ever read.  Here we have a story about a woman who goes to New York to follow her dream of becoming an artist and ends up working in a Middle Eastern restaurant owned by a Jew and an Arab. Through an interesting series of events, including watching the dance of the young girl with \\"skinny legs\\", she finds meaning in many aspects of life.  Robbins also includes another associated plot of the journey of inanimate objects (a spoon, a can of beans, a purple sock, a conch shell, and a painted stick).  Robbins has a fascinating way of describing things (e.g. plants as constipated elves) and of exploring complex ideas which makes the reading very pleasurable.  Robbins' style deviates from any sort of norm, but he allows readers to live and explore through his characters.<br />An excellent book!	2002-09-04
US	49476244	ROEVP97CZK8XC	0870114247	317137770	The Waiting Years (Japan's Women Writers)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the Best Books I've Read	This book took my breath away.  Fumiko Enchi describes the life of Tomo, who deals with her adulterous husband with amazing strength.  In a complex marriage of love and hate, Tomo is sent to choose a concubine for her husband, find a husband for the other concubine he doesn't want, and worry about his affair with her daughter-in-law.  While she may seem like a cold and unfeeling woman who is a stickler to tradition, Enchi shows the reader the gentle, compassionate side of Tomo.  Tomo in the end is finally able to defeat her husband in an intelligent, almost classy manner.<br />What strikes me about the book is the way Enchi explains the motivations and fears of each of the characters.  Even though I couldn't stand Tomo's husband, Yukitomo, at least I understood why he treated his wife so coldly.  As in reality, everyone has different layers.  The plot of the book is also interesting.  <br />Do not wait to read the &quot;The Waiting Years&quot;!	2002-04-22
US	49476244	R23GKEK3PWSVNR	0814756263	872234371	The Mountain is Moving: Japanese Women's Lives	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A great treatment of issues facing Japanese women today	In this highly enjoyable and informative work, Patricia Morley examines the many roles Japanese women play in their society.  Through her hundreds of interviews and her analyses of literary works written by and about Japanese women, Morley explores important themes like education, marriage and childrearing, employment, caring for the elderly, politics, volunteerism, and women writers.  I found Chapters 7 and 8 to be especially interesting.  Throughout the work, she emphasizes that while Japanese women are changing rapidly, their society still holds on to traditions that have oppressed them.  What is also great about Morley is that while she focuses on women, she also recognizes that to study women you often need to explore how society treats men as well.	2002-03-29
US	49476244	R1ZFQYQBQWUG4H	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The First Book You Should Read on the Taliban	While a lot has changed since this book was published, it is invaluable in providing historical and political context to what has been happening in Afghanistan.  Rashid in 216 pages attempts to give a history of Afghanistan and the Taliban movement, describe the Taliban and its connections to Islam, and explain how the fight for oil in Central Asia has brought forth a new \\"Great Game\\" for Afghanistan.  While dense with facts and names, he does quite a good job at giving the reader a better understanding of Central Asian politics and history.  He does at times seem to stuff in a lot of information while risking the continuity of what he is trying to express.  His use of acronyms can be confusing, for many times I had to stop reading to try to figure out the acronyms, just like I did with the numerous names he mentions.  Despite these shortcomings, Rashid's use of journalism and history must be commended for creating quite a comprehensive and informative work on Afghanistan and Central Asia.	2002-03-26
US	49476244	R3VT3C7ZF1QR89	0451526554	363093333	Jane Eyre (Signet Classics)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of the most unique and beautiful love stories	This is, hands down, one of my favorite books.  It is not the typical romance story - the heroine is not a gorgeous, delicate, flower and the hero is not a young, virile Hercules.  The characters are more realistic, allowing the reader to be more sympathetic.  Jane Eyre is described as being the plainest of the plain, but her strength and independence make her a rare individual.  She is a dynamic character whose love transforms her in the end.<br />This is book really moved me.  I would recommend this book to anyone, especially anyone who has the time to read it in one or two settings and not have to worry about writing a paper on it.  It'll be worth your time!	2001-11-06
US	49476244	R3TWQMWO4UY80S	019825427X	213909747	International Human Rights in Context: Law, Politics, Morals: Text and Materials	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Thought-provoking	This is a really good human rights textbook.  It covers a wide range of human rights issues, and has a lot of interesting articles.  However I found some of the chapters rather difficult because of the legal jargon.  Some of the things you have to read over more than once.  The questions in the text focus on your personal opinions, so doing homework from this book is not so bad once you understand the questions (which for my slow brain was a challenge.)  It is also very useful as a doorstop.  :)	2001-10-21
US	49476244	R2KLDY8UNW5SZO	0812215214	84898450	The Evolution of International Human Rights: Visions Seen (Pennsylvania Studies in Human Rights)	Books	5	18	21	N	N	A Truly International History of Human rRights	One of the major things that striked me about this book is Lauren's acknowledgement that the concept of human rights is not a completely Western creation.  Traditions around the world, political, cultural, and religious, have stressed justice and equality.  <BR>  Lauren's treatment of Human Rights is quite thorough.  I have to commend him for the fact that he does not value judgements on any of the events he described.  He acknowledges the mistakes made but does not dwell on them.<BR>  I also learned a lot of things about history that wasn't touched about in my history classes.  I can say that I actually felt smarter reading this book.  :)	2001-10-09
US	49476244	RVRZBNQRIALVX	0812092813	652020059	501 French Verbs: Fully Conjugated in All the Tenses in a New Easy-To-Learn Format Alphabetically Arranged (English and French Edition)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The most useful French book you'll ever get your hands on	This book is hands-down one of the most useful French books you'll ever need.  It has every verb you can think of, and has verb conjugations in the different tenses: passe compose, imparfait, futur, etc.  To make it even easier, these verbs are listed alphabetically.  This book also has other information - so check out the link to the table of contents.  French grammar is scary, so do yourself a favor and get a copy of this book.	2001-10-05
US	49476244	R1F8HF0HFH6WRY	0070138877	165877459	Schaum's Outline of French Grammar	Books	5	20	20	N	N	For anyone interested in the French language	This book is great in that it can be used by a beginner or someone who is familiar with French but wants to improve their French grammar. Organized in coherent sections, you can easily find your area of concern, such as the imparfait tense, articles, etc. There are also exercises you can do, and (the major advantage) there are also answers in the back. Definitely worth your money!	2001-09-17
