US	49494578	RGM7GSXHP42XL	0743260929	436711866	The Twelfth Card: A  Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Lincoln Rhyme Novels)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Twist after twist after twist	Lincoln Rhyme is former NYPD captain turned consultant criminalist.  He literally wrote the manual on crime scene investigation, but is now paralyzed from the shoulders down by a broken spine, with just enough control over one finger to operate his wheelchair.  Much his legwork - as well as the work of eyes, ears, and other body parts - is done for him by his policewoman partner, Amelia Sachs, and the Crime Scene Unit.  In this novel, they are pitted against the scariest fictional professional killer since Tim Powers's Al Funo - the meticulous Thompson Boyd, a near-invisible \\"Average Joe\\" trying to regain the emotions he used to be able to feel before being numbed by his years in prison.<br /><br />Geneva Settle, a brilliant student at a Harlem high school, is conducting research into the life of one of her ancestors, a former slave named Charles Singleton who she's convinced was framed for a notorious robbery in the 1860s.  While she's reading microfiche copies of ancient newspapers, Boyd closes in on her.  Settle outwits him long enough to flee from the library by an emergency exit, triggering an automatic alarm.  The CSU is summoned, and Boyd runs, killing a librarian and shooting a bystander and leaving behind a rape pack, which contains a tarot card - The Hanged Man, the twelfth card in the major arcana - as well as the more traditional box-cutter, duct tape and condoms.<br /><br />After questioning Settle, Rhyme suspects that the pack has been planted to throw the police off the track - and that the would-be attacker smashed the microfiche machine, took the fiche, and killed the librarian not out of anger but in an attempt to stop Settle from discovering the truth about her ancestor.  He soon discovers that someone else is also looking for Settle, and begins investigating Singleton's past.  What is the secret he mentions in his letters?  What happened at the furtive meetings Singleton, a civil rights activist and friend of Frederick Douglass, attended in Gallows Heights in the 1860s?<br /><br />Sachs finds one of Boyd's safe-houses, but the apartment turns out to be a death-trap as well as a dead end, with few clues as to his methods and nothing that helps them identify his client.  To add to Rhyme's troubles, Settle insists on being allowed to attend school to sit her tests, even threatening to call a prominent civil rights lawyer to get her released from police protection.  Rhyme discovers that not everything she tells him is true, and wonders what she might be hiding.  And then she disappears.<br /><br />The Twelfth Card is an excellent police procedural, showing the amount of tedious search for detail that detective work requires, as well as occasional flashes of insight.  Deaver, a former lawyer, has been meticulous in his research, and sometimes wanders off into brief lectures about 19th century politics, African-American vernacular, graffiti, and which breeds of dog are best at which sort of detection, as well as giving the reader frequently updated reports listing all the evidence and profiles of the suspects.  However, he does so less obtrusively than Michael Crichton or Frederick Forsyth, and the reports can actually be useful in keeping track of the tangled web of clues, subplots, theories, and red herrings.  Deaver juggles these expertly, managing to introduce new twists every time I thought I had the whole thing worked out.  Even while Sachs and Rhyme close in on the lethal Boyd, they seem no closer to answer the question of who is paying him and why.  Is his ultimate goal a diamond heist, a terrorist attack, or rewriting the constitution?  And who else has he hired?<br /><br />While The Twelfth Card is plot-driven rather than character-driven, Deaver has done a fine job of creating the characters of the fiercely independent Geneva Settle and the cold-blooded Boyd Thompson, as well as a supporting cast that includes a Graffiti King and a Birkenstock-wearing lawyer of mass destruction.  The end result is an intriguing, often surprising, and ultimately satisfying thriller.sult is an intriguing, often surprising, and ultimately satisfying thriller.	2005-09-19
US	49494578	RGVYAVSL8DL0O	0399152792	777159166	Fire Sale (V.I. Warshawski Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Explosive	Fire Sale opens with an explosion and builds up to a climax.  V. I. Warshawski is trying to break into a flag manufacturer's factory to investigate reports of sabotage, when an explosion inside shatters the windows and sets the building ablaze.  The wounded V. I. is grilled by her former lover, Conrad Rawlings, now watch commander for the precinct, who wants to know what has brought her back to her childhood home in South Chicago.  Her old neighbourhood is somewhere few people would voluntarily return to:  unemployment is at forty percent, and the few major employers in the area treat it like a medieval fiefdom.  Frank Zamar's Fly the Flag factory is the second-largest employer, but is suffering a decline in its fortunes and dwarfed by the Bysen family's By-Smart empire of chain stores.<br /><br />V. I. has been persuaded by her former basketball coach to take over training the girl's team at her old school.  She finds herself having to deal with a group of girls divided along lines of religion and gang membership, where their rival churches' insistence on abstinence hasn't reduced the class's fifteen percent pregnancy rate.  Worse still, one of the girls is the daughter of two of her former classmates who she would rather have forgotten.<br /><br />V. I. turns to the Bysens to attempt to persuade them to sponsor the team, but despite their loudly proclaimed family values, the Bysens are reluctant to part with even a tiny fraction of their forty billion dollar fortune.  The only support she receives comes from nineteen year old `Billy the Kid' Bysen, the idealistic grandson of the cantankerous patriarch known as `Buffalo Bill', and the only member of the clan who seems to believe that charity and compassion are among the Christian virtues.  Warshawski discovers that Billy also enjoys the company of some of the young church-going girls on her basketball team, and when he disappears, the family hires her to find him.  V. I. agrees, though she's also busy investigating the sabotage at Fly the Flag, as well as dealing with a complicated personal life.  Her lover Morrell, a writer, is back in town recuperating from wounds he received in Afghanistan - and he's accompanied by one of his exes, Marcena Love, a glamorous, seductive and inquisitive British investigative journalist.<br /><br />V. I.'s list of possible arsonists includes Bron `Romeo' Czernin, a truck driver and father of one of her basketball team; Freddy, a young punk who's the father of the baby of another of her girls, as well as a few other children by different mothers; and the mysterious part-time priest Father Andres.  But as V. I. looks for the brains behind the sabotage, she discovers a mess of blackmail and people-smuggling and murder, and soon she has to fight her way out of a premature burial in a Chicago landfill.<br /><br />Paretsky paints a grim picture of a city where each pregnancy lowers a teenage girl's earning potential by fifty percent, and health care is only available to the rich - who can get away with nearly anything as long as they espouse `family values'.  In the case of the Bysens, these seem to be the values of the Corleone family, with more than a hint of the Manson family.  `Buffalo Bill' is a blend of King Lear, Scrooge McDuck, and Chinatown's Noah Cross, but he may not be the worst of his clan.  And while they balk at paying V. I.'s fees, sneering at her for being too lazy to inherit or marry into a fortune, V.I. gets an equally bad time from their un-unionized minimum-wage workers.<br /><br />V. I. does what she can to bring some justice to this disaster area, and the novel's conclusion is satisfying without seeming like a fairy-tale.  V. I.'s childhood home may not even a nice place to visit, but it makes a great backdrop for a gripping thriller.ting the sabotage at Fly the Flag, as well as dealing with a complicated personal life.  Her lover Morrell, a writer, is back in town recuperating from wounds he received in Afghanistan - and he's accompanied by one of his exes, Marcena Love, a glamorous, seductive and inquisitive British investigative journalist. <br /> <br />V. I.'s list of possible arsonists includes Bron `Romeo' Czernin, a truck driver and father of one of her basketball team; Freddy, a young punk who's the father of the baby of another of her girls, as well as a few other children by different mothers; and the mysterious part-time priest Father Andres.  But as V. I. looks for the brains behind the sabotage, she discovers a mess of blackmail and people-smuggling and murder, and soon she has to fight her way out of a premature burial in a Chicago landfill. <br /> <br />Paretsky paints a grim picture of a city where each pregnancy lowers a teenage girl's earning potential by fifty percent, and health care is only available to the rich - who can get away with nearly anything as long as they espouse `family values'.  In the case of the Bysens, these seem to be the values of the Corleone family, with more than a hint of the Manson family.  `Buffalo Bill' is a blend of King Lear, Scrooge McDuck, and Chinatown's Noah Cross, but he may not be the worst of his clan.  And while they balk at paying V. I.'s fees, sneering at her for being too lazy to inherit or marry into a fortune, V.I. gets an equally bad time from their un-unionized minimum-wage workers. <br /> <br />V. I. does what she can to bring some justice to this disaster area, and the novel's conclusion is satisfying without seeming like a fairy-tale.  V. I.'s childhood home may not even a nice place to visit, but it makes a great backdrop for a gripping thriller.	2005-09-19
US	49494578	R29BJ47XUU2SOF	0553804154	829325009	Velocity	Books	5	2	2	N	N	High-Velocity Splatter	Billy Wiles, a good bartender and failed writer, leaves work one night to find a note under the driver's-side windshield wiper of his SUV, reading: \\"If you don't take this note to the police, I will KILL a lovely blonde schoolteacher somewhere in Napa County.  If you do take the note to the police, I will instead kill an elderly woman.  You have SIX hours to decide.  The choice is yours.\\"<br /><br />Unsure whether or not it's a hoax, Billy takes it to his poker buddy and foster-brother Lanny Olsen, who is practicing his marksmanship on his picture-perfect drawings of the Simpsons (except for Marge) and the cast of Shrek to kill off his frustrated dreams of being a cartoonist instead of a third-generation cop.  Olsen dismisses the note as a lame joke, arguing that \\"In real life, killers just kill.\\"<br /><br />That night, a lovely blonde schoolteacher is killed, and Lanny panics - particularly when Billy finds another note under his wiper the next evening.  This one reads \\"If you don't go to the police and get them involved, I will kill an unmarried man who won't much be missed by the world.  If you do go to the police, I will kill a young mother of two.  You have five hours to decide.  The choice of yours.\\"<br /><br />Billy is unmarried - his fianc&eacute;e and only confidante has been in a coma for four years, poisoned by botulism, occasionally uttering apparently nonsensical half-sentences.  Lanny, whose greatest fear is of being fired from the force before he can claim his pension, persuades Billy to give him both notes rather than draw them to the attention of the sheriff.  Billy survives past the deadline, but the killer - a man with an honest face (kept in a jar of formaldehyde) - has other ways of turning him into a victim.  The notes continue to arrive, the deadlines becoming shorter and the choices just as horrible, and all the circumstantial evidence points to Billy as the murderer.<br /><br />Billy, who has previously had a run-in with the sheriff and knows just how quick he can be to try to base a case on circumstantial evidence, decides to take on the killer himself rather than trust the police.  Unable to sleep, and refusing to commit suicide as the killer has predicted, Billy arms himself with an old revolver, a well-stocked first aid kit, the advice of an amateur haruspex and a subconscious memory of the poetry of T. S. Eliot.  He begins trying to think like his psychopathic tormentor in the hope of saving his next victim, if not himself.  His prime suspect proves to be a genuinely twisted individual, but all the evidence suggesting that he might be the murderer is purely circumstantial...<br /><br />Velocity bears some resemblance to Koontz's earlier thriller Hideaway, but it keeps the murderer very much in the background until the final chapters.  The novel is structured like a good Hitchcock film, beginning with a first chapter that is a minor masterpiece of black comedy before plunging suddenly into nightmare, and piling twist on twist as it nears the end.  Just as the killer uses fish-hooks to torture Billy (the novel isn't particularly recommended for the squeamish), Koontz gets his narrative hooks into the reader and reels him in...  and while the killer's intentions include turning Billy's slow-paced life into a high-velocity horror, Koontz spaces out the most horrifying moments with scenes of Billy waiting for the next inevitable turn of the screw.  Though the unpredictable pacing keeps the reader off-guard, it accelerates in fits and starts as the body count increases, building up to a satisfying climax.<br /><br />If you like your thrillers gruesome and twisted, with complex if slightly over-the-top characters, Velocity may be just your cup of cyanide.  If not, don't start reading it, or you might be hooked despite yourself.  The choice is yours.ws just how quick he can be to try to base a case on circumstantial evidence, decides to take on the killer himself rather than trust the police.  Unable to sleep, and refusing to commit suicide as the killer has predicted, Billy arms himself with an old revolver, a well-stocked first aid kit, the advice of an amateur haruspex and a subconscious memory of the poetry of T. S. Eliot.  He begins trying to think like his psychopathic tormentor in the hope of saving his next victim, if not himself.  His prime suspect proves to be a genuinely twisted individual, but all the evidence suggesting that he might be the murderer is purely circumstantial... <br /> <br />Velocity bears some resemblance to Koontz's earlier thriller Hideaway, but it keeps the murderer very much in the background until the final chapters.  The novel is structured like a good Hitchcock film, beginning with a first chapter that is a minor masterpiece of black comedy before plunging suddenly into nightmare, and piling twist on twist as it nears the end.  Just as the killer uses fish-hooks to torture Billy (the novel isn't particularly recommended for the squeamish), Koontz gets his narrative hooks into the reader and reels him in...  and while the killer's intentions include turning Billy's slow-paced life into a high-velocity horror, Koontz spaces out the most horrifying moments with scenes of Billy waiting for the next inevitable turn of the screw.  Though the unpredictable pacing keeps the reader off-guard, it accelerates in fits and starts as the body count increases, building up to a satisfying climax. <br /> <br />If you like your thrillers gruesome and twisted, with complex if slightly over-the-top characters, Velocity may be just your cup of cyanide.  If not, don't start reading it, or you might be hooked despite yourself.  The choice is yours.	2005-09-19
US	49494578	R3SHZAQM41LTEN	0553804146	245113934	Life Expectancy: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not what you expect...	In Life Expectancy, Koontz steps into a region somewhere between the territories of John Irving and Jonathan Carroll, to create an unnerving and eerily surreal tale of a family of pastry chefs haunted by killer clowns.<br /><br />Jimmy Tock is born on the day that Nixon resigns, and during the same minute his grandfather dies.  Josef Tock, paralyzed by a stroke and lying on his deathbed in the same hospital, makes a series of predictions about the boy - his length and weight, that he will suffer from syndactyly (fused fingers and toes), and that there will be five terrible days in his life.  He even predicts the dates, which his son Rudy dutifully writes down before returning to the maternity ward.  Rudy arrives in the expectant fathers' waiting lounge just in time to see a clown shoot the doctor who has delivered their children.<br /><br />Rudy manages to prevent the clown, Konrad Beezo, from shooting the rest of the hospital staff who he believes let his wife die in childbirth.  Beezo escapes with his son Punchinello, swearing that he will become a great clown instead of an aerialist like his mother and grandfather, and Rudy takes Jimmy home to his own eccentric family.<br /><br />Twenty years later, Jimmy and his family become nervous as the first of the five predicted 'terrible days' approaches.  On that day, Jimmy ventures out to the library, where he sees a stranger shoot the librarian in cold blood as the first step in a plan to rob the local bank of three million dollars in fatigued currency.  Jimmy is soon being held hostage by a trio of psychopathic plain-clothes clowns led by a spider-guzzling Punchinello Beezo, who is determined to blow up the entire town to avenge his mother's death.  Within minutes, Jimmy finds himself chained to the most beautiful woman he's ever seen, and striving not to contradict to Punchinello's paranoid rendition of their respective family histories.<br /><br />And that's just the first of the five terrible days.  Over the next twelve years, Jimmy will have to fight to keep his own beloved family from being lethally entangled in the murderous feud between the Beezos and their acrobatic in-laws, the Flying Vivacementes.  For their sake, he is sometimes forced to make bargains with self-deluding murderers, and eventually agrees to become an assassin in order to save one of his children.<br /><br />Much of the fun in Life Expectancy - and for all its grand guignol horror elements, it is remarkably good fun - comes from the eccentricity of his larger-than-life characters.  The self-effacing Jimmy narrates most of the novel, and light-heartedly expresses his regrets that his grandfather's vague predictions and his training as a pastry-chef have ill-prepared him for handling explosives and disarming gunmen.  His mother paints portraits of pets, including gila monsters, and his grandmother delights in adding gruesome touches to children's stories.  Jimmy worries that they're turning into the Addams family, until he learns that his wife-to-be Lorrie is the daughter of a professional snake-handler and a tornado-chaser.<br /><br />Koontz also manages to make all four generations of the Tocks, and the other inhabitants of Snow Village, extremely likeable with remarkably few words - which makes the Beezos' murderous rampages all the more horrific.  He's even more skilled when it comes to creating frightening villains, and Konrad and Punchinello Beezo may be the most terrifying clowns in literature since Stephen King's It manifested as the child-eating Pennywise.<br /><br />Life Expectancy combines horror and humour and revels in its own over-the-top weirdness.  It occasionally lapses into non sequitur for longer than it should (especially on the subject of pastries), and Lorrie is sometimes a little too quick with the witty lines...  but for the most part, it keeps you off-balance so effectively that whenever you turn a page, you don't know whether you're about to laugh or shudder.  Which makes it a near-perfect book for readers who enjoy doing both.Which makes it a near-perfect book for readers who enjoy doing both.	2005-06-10
US	49494578	R1XU5VZU0VGE5B	0743454545	573739483	Vanishing Acts (Wsp Readers Club)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Magical	Jodi Picoult's novel Second Glance impressed me enormously with its fascinating characters, stylish writing, cleverly constructed plot, and fearless crossing of conventional genre boundaries - combining ghost story, police procedural, romance, historical novel, and more.  Vanishing Acts can also boast fascinating characters, stylish writing and a cleverly constructed plot, this time using the forms of courtroom drama, prison novel, and love triangle.  Or maybe triangle isn't quite the right word - except that any polygon, however complex, can be broken down into triangles.<br /><br />Delia Hopkins is an expert at finding missing persons, with the help of a Search and Rescue bloodhound named Greta.  She never suspects that she is also a missing person herself, until police come to her house to arrest her father for having kidnapped her twenty-eight years earlier.  She learns that his real name is Charles Matthews, not Andrew Hopkins - and that the mother she thought long dead is still alive.<br /><br />Delia calls her two best friends for help - Eric, her fianc&eacute; and the father of her four-year-old daughter Sophie, and their oldest friend, Fitz.  Eric agrees, despite his better judgment, to defend Delia's father; Fitz, a reporter, is sent to Arizona to cover Andrew's trial as part of a series of `Strange but True' stories.  Eric inadvertently alienates the judge, who sets Andrew's bail at two million dollars.  While Andrew learns how to survive in the violent world of an Arizona jail, Delia, Eric and Fitz go looking for Delia's mother, Elise, and Delia's forgotten past.  Delia discovers that she and Eric have yet one more thing in common - both of their mothers were hopeless alcoholics, too often too drunk to properly care for their children.  And like her, her mother had two men in her life.<br /><br />Because Eric has also been an alcoholic since his teens, and is now too scared even to drink coffee because of the buzz, Delia becomes even more convinced that her father made the right choice by taking her away from her home.  Acting within the law might have been disastrous:  in the 1970s, Eric reminds the court, custody was almost always awarded to the mother, no matter how poor a parent she might be.  The prosecution, however, casts doubt on Andrew's version of events, and soon the whole case hinges on unreliable and unverifiable memories.<br /><br />If you're in the market for an interesting and sometimes frightening crime novel, Vanishing Acts depicts twenty-first century US prisons as being even more brutal and frightening than the 1930s eugenics projects she described in Second Glance.  It has fascinating details of the different prison and street gangs and their rituals, as well as a recipe for methamphetamines and instructions for making zip gun from an asthma inhaler.  It's also a superbly suspenseful courtroom drama with plenty of twists, as well as an unusual love story.  But most importantly, it's a well-written story that transcends the restrictions of genres and marketing categories because of Picoult's remarkable gift for creating wonderfully well-rounded and multi-layered characters.<br /><br />As well as Delia, Eric, Andrew and Fitz (the book's four narrators), Picoult surprises us with individuals such as Emma Wasserstein, the hugely pregnant prosecution lawyer who defends Elise's rights as a mother even while Elise is condemning her own weakness; Concise, Andrew's \\"short and sweet\\" cell-mate, dealing drugs in the hope that maybe his son won't have to; and perhaps most memorably of all, Ruthann, Delia's neighbour in the Arizona trailer park, a Native American medicine woman in a DON'T WORRY, BE HOPI T-shirt and a coat that doubles as a garage sale stall.  Picoult then weaves relationships between these characters and their backgrounds that are as intricate and difficult to escape as a spider web (appropriately, Delia suffers from severe arachnophobia).  Fitz, Delia and Eric; Delia and Sophie; Delia andAndrew; Andrew, Elise, and Elise's lover Victor; Elise and alcohol; Eric and alcohol; Delia and Ruthann; the three-sided race war between the prison inmates, in which Andrew inadvertently becomes involved...  all of these fit together in a complex plot that looks not only at the relationship between the law and justice, but also the relationship between memory and truth.<br /><br />The defence rests.nd Andrew; Andrew, Elise, and Elise's lover Victor; Elise and alcohol; Eric and alcohol; Delia and Ruthann; the three-sided race war between the prison inmates, in which Andrew inadvertently becomes involved...  all of these fit together in a complex plot that looks not only at the relationship between the law and justice, but also the relationship between memory and truth. <br /> <br />The defence rests. <br />	2005-06-02
US	49494578	R7N6YAGQ8V7FA	0553801953	602789703	Kill the Messenger (Hoag, Tami)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Glitz, Grime and Crime in LA	Kill the Messenger is a cleverly-constructed page-turner with a nicely twisted plot.  It can also boast unusually well-written action scenes, and a keen fashion sense (both Parker and Ruiz are suspiciously well dressed - the former in designer trenchcoat and fedora, the latter in low-cut suits and Jimmy Choo stilettos).  On top of this, it paints a darkly fascinating picture of life in L.A., depicting it as a little world where the urge to be a star has infected even the police and lawyers.  Almost everyone is a smart-ass, speaking in carefully scripted one-liners; Robbery-Homicide Detectives seem to be selected as much for their ability to look good on the news as for any investigative ability; people co-operate with cops more out of the desire to appear on America's Most Wanted than out of any interest in justice.<br /><br />Hoag has obviously had fun creating her characters, from Parker and Jace down to bit players such as Obidia Jones, the homeless man who identifies the killer.  Even the walk-ons are well-drawn and interesting, and most are easy to like, if not to trust.  A few - Jace, his brother Tyler, their landlady Madame Chen, Jace's workmates Mojo and `Eta' Fitzgerald - care more about other people than money or image.  There are some good cops in Hoag's understaffed LAPD, and Parker may have learned enough from his earlier mistakes to have become one of them.<br /><br />Kill the Messenger is fast-paced and fun and hard to put down.  Read it before some Hollywood film-maker turns it into a star vehicle.	2004-12-04
US	49494578	R3PYCAULE6BDAO	0345458931	730478278	Body Double	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Double your pleasure...	Body Double is a rollercoaster of a read, because Gerritsen is constantly startling and unsettling you.  She puts a plot twist, and sometimes more than one, in nearly every chapter - some of them shocking as a body blow, others subtle as a slow poison.  Once you've started, putting the book down for more than a few minutes is as difficult as keeping your eyes closed during a horror movie:  not knowing what's going to happen next is worse than seeing it.<br /><br />Gerritsen's pacing is almost surgically precise, and while there are a few convenient and rather unlikely coincidences helping move the plot along, her detailed descriptions of police and medical procedures lend an aura of unnerving authenticity to the story.  Her depiction of scientists and forensic investigators at work - not just the tools they use, or the language, but the way they think and feel - is utterly believable.<br /><br />While the novel's male characters aren't especially interesting, Gerritsen has done a much better job of bringing her female characters to life.  None of them are superwomen (unlike Kay Scarpetta in Patricia Cornwell's more recent novels), but they're a far cry from the stock figures created by some male writers.  Even the most apparently vapid of them fights for her life when necessary, and when especially they have more than one life to fight for, they show an inspiring degree of courage, resourcefulness and inner strength.  If you were impressed by Clarice Starling and Catherine Martin in The Silence of the Lambs, or Silent Witness's Sam Ryan, then you'll almost certainly like Jane Rizzoli, Maura Isles and Mattie Purvis.  As a former medic, Gerritsen also has an unusual gift for granting dignity and significance to a corpse on an autopsy table, or a few bones found in a shallow grave, with a few well-chosen words.	2004-12-04
US	49494578	R3DBWP9LNI6QVL	0743222016	582723746	Garden of Beasts: A Novel of Berlin 1936	Books	4	4	4	N	N	In search of the final solution...	Garden of Beasts blends the forensic-savvy detective story, for which five-time Edgar Award nominee Deaver is best known, with the historical spy thriller.  The result is a cunningly constructed and very readable page-turner filled with intriguing characters in a fascinating setting.<br /><br />Paul Schumann, an American ex-soldier and boxer turned button man, is made a one-time offer:  assassinate Reinhard Ernst, Hitler's rearmament czar, or be handed over to mob-busting prosecutor Tom Dewey.  Schumann, fluent in German, travels to Berlin with the Olympic team, but on his first attempt to meet his contact, he finds himself at the wrong end of a pistol.  Soon he's fleeing from the scene, a corpse in his wake and a clever cop on his trail.<br /><br />The cop, Willi Kohl, is as astute a picker-up of clues as Sherlock Holmes, but without Holmes's tendency to quantum-leap to conclusions.  He's also a politically neutral member of the Kripo (Kriminal Polizei), so his homicide investigation is considered less important by the police hierarchy than the work of the Gestapo in tracking down dissidents, and he has to wait an inordinate amount of time for autopsies, fingerprint matching, and other forensics.  Despite this setback, and Schumann's considerable skill and care at covering his tracks, Kohl and his prot&eacute;g&eacute; are rarely more than a step behind the button man.<br /><br />Just when you think this is going to be a fairly straightforward Day of the Jackal type race between assassin and detective, Deaver gives the story another twist...  and keeps twisting.  Schumann realizes that he's been set up yet again, and that the reason he was given Russian papers was not to aid his escape, but to cause Hitler to blame the Russians for the assassination.  Kohl, too, learns that he may have been trusting some of the wrong people.  Ernst's team, meanwhile, has its own agenda, which they are carefully hiding from Hitler's inner circle.<br /><br />Willi Kohl is a likeable and credible character, but Schumann and his German collaborator, black marketer Otto Webber, are rather too good to be believable as career criminals.  They're much less self-serving than many of the more reputable and supposedly honest citizens with which Deaver peoples 1930s US and Germany.  The most sympathetic characters in the book are the German pacifists who Schumann meets; at the other extreme, Deaver does a good job of conveying the banality of evil.  His brownshirts and Hitler Youth are mostly unthinking racist bullies, while the more intelligent and politically astute members of Hitler's inner circle are shown as venal and hypocritical.  Even the most sycophantic are mainly interested in strengthening their own position, exploiting Hitler's paranoia and delusions and dreaming of becoming the next Fuehrer.<br /><br />Deaver has been meticulous with his research, and while he can't always resist the temptation to tell us things we didn't really need to know, he never lets this slow down the plot for very long.  Many of these details are interesting in their own right, and some provide occasional touches of humour.  Deaver has been scrupulous about identifying his sources, providing a bibliography at the back as well as an afterword revealing where he made minor changes to history.  He's also been honest enough to admit how many Americans supported Naziism before World War II, whether motivated by racism, anti-communism, or simple greed.  The end result is a spy thriller which is not only tautly written, with enough action and intrigue to satisfy anyone, but alarmingly convincing in its depiction of a corrupt and paranoid society.redible character, but Schumann and his German collaborator, black marketer Otto Webber, are rather too good to be believable as career criminals.  They're much less self-serving than many of the more reputable and supposedly honest citizens with which Deaver peoples 1930s US and Germany.  The most sympathetic characters in the book are the German pacifists who Schumann meets; at the other extreme, Deaver does a good job of conveying the banality of evil.  His brownshirts and Hitler Youth are mostly unthinking racist bullies, while the more intelligent and politically astute members of Hitler's inner circle are shown as venal and hypocritical.  Even the most sycophantic are mainly interested in strengthening their own position, exploiting Hitler's paranoia and delusions and dreaming of becoming the next Fuehrer.  <br /> <br />Deaver has been meticulous with his research, and while he can't always resist the temptation to tell us things we didn't really need to know, he never lets this slow down the plot for very long.  Many of these details are interesting in their own right, and some provide occasional touches of humour.  Deaver has been scrupulous about identifying his sources, providing a bibliography at the back as well as an afterword revealing where he made minor changes to history.  He's also been honest enough to admit how many Americans supported Naziism before World War II, whether motivated by racism, anti-communism, or simple greed.  The end result is a spy thriller which is not only tautly written, with enough action and intrigue to satisfy anyone, but alarmingly convincing in its depiction of a corrupt and paranoid society.	2004-10-27
US	49494578	R1E1PEVY2VXDXE	0380977095	790293218	King of Foxes (Conclave of Shadows, Book 2)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Hawkins. Tal Hawkins.	King of Foxes is the sequel to Talon of the Silver Hawk, and though it works fairly well as a stand-alone novel, it presupposes at least some familiarity with Feist's earlier work.  It is, however, noticeably different from most epic fantasies.  For one thing, it's relatively short.  For another, while it has the trappings of fantasy, the plot, pace and feel of the first two thirds of the book are reminiscent of a low-tech James Bond novel - and a pretty good one, too.  The hero's best friend doesn't die in Chapter 7, but apart from that, the resemblance is remarkable.  Squire Tal Hawkins, Talon of the Silver Hawk, has earned the title of World's Greatest Swordsman.  He's even better with a bow and arrow, is a connoisseur of food and wines, and is charming, handsome, and very attractive to women.  He may seem rather too good to be true, but this also makes him overconfident.  He's not easily outclassed, but he's badly outnumbered and occasionally outmanoeuvred, which saves the book from being too predictable.<br /><br />Feist is very good at leaving out the boring bits of a story, and if a year or two passes without much happening, he'll say so in a few lines.  There's surprisingly little magic in the earlier part of the book - elves, dwarves and dragons are mentioned, but don't actually appear.  Most of the action involves swords, seduction and subterfuge instead of sorcery.  Spells are never used as a substitute for good plotting.  The obligatory Dark Lord - Kaspar's court magician, the giggling dangerous totally bloody psychotic Leso Varen - also stays offstage for most of the book.  The wizard Pug appears at about page 300, and then the real pyrotechnics begin.<br /><br />King of Foxes is not \\"comparable to Tolkien at his best\\", to quote the usual review cliche, but it does have all the ingredients needed for an entertaining fantasy adventure.	2004-06-24
US	49494578	R7E66J7CJYOED	038097875X	724936298	A Blind Eye: A Novel (Ford, G. M.)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	American Gothic	In an opening sequence as fast-paced and frantic as the prologue to an Indiana Jones movie, true crime writer Frank Corso (trying to avoid appearing before a Grand Jury in Texas as a material witness) and his ex-lover Megan Dougherty drive from snowbound O'Hare airport in the hope of catching a plane from Madison... but they skid on an icy road and take shelter in a long-abandoned farmhouse.  Tearing up some floorboards for firewood, they find several buried bodies.  The Texans catch up with Corso while he's recovering from the crash in hospital in the small town of Avalon, and Corso makes a deal with the local sheriff:  if he solves the murder and helps her win re-election, she'll fight the extradition order for a few days until the Grand Jury case is over.<br />Corso soon becomes intrigued by the case, then horrified, and continues working to solve it even after the sheriff's deputy is found dead and he's accused of the murder.<br />Apart from a rather contrived beginning, A Blind Eye is an excellently crafted fast-paced thriller which builds up to a gripping climax, comparable to Red Dragon or The Silence of the Lambs.  Ford makes good use of forensic science (including some rather gruesome details of forensic entomology) as well Corso and Dougherty's knack for extracting the information they need from people and computers, and cunningly weaves in some clues that even Corso misses.  There's plenty of action as Corso tries to elude everyone who's trying to catch or kill him, and more than a hint of sexual tension, though most of the sex happens off-stage (if not necessarily off-camera).<br />Ford is also skilled at creating interesting, often surprising, characters in remarkably few words.  His good guys have flaws, and it's difficult not to empathise (at least a little) with his killers as well as most of their victims.  His dialogue is sharp, but believable.  And like Stephen King or Bruce Springsteen, Ford does an excellent job of portraying slowly-dying rust-belt Smalltown USA, where the cemetery is not only all that remains of an area's history but the closest thing it has to a claim on the future.<br />Though grim to the point of being gothic, A Blind Eye is a genuinely gripping read that should appeal to all thriller, mystery and horror enthusiasts.elt Smalltown USA, where the cemetery is not only all that remains of an area's history but the closest thing it has to a claim on the future.<br />Though grim to the point of being gothic, A Blind Eye is a genuinely gripping read that should appeal to all thriller, mystery and horror enthusiasts.	2004-03-07
US	49494578	R24X078ZC7R13V	0743260953	33541163	Twisted: The Collected Stories of Jeffery Deaver	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Deavious	While he's best known as a novelist, Deaver is a self-confessed fan of The Twilight Zone, as well as Poe and Conan Doyle and O. Henry and Ray Bradbury, and he admits to enjoying short stories because it enables him to \\"make good bad and bad badder and, most fun of all, really good really bad.\\"  You can definitely tell he's having fun in this collection.<br />Many of these sixteen stories focus not on the detective or forensic scientist, but on the criminal.  And yes, most of them are Twisted.  Shakespeare acts as a witness in a murder case.  A drugstore cowboy kidnaps a champion salesman.  A district attorney tries desperately to jail an murderer who has bought and/or intimidated witnesses.  A psychiatrist specializing in diseases of the rich thinks he sees a chance to change his own life for the better.<br />There are twist endings and more than a few twist middles.  Insanity real and faked.  Double-crosses and triple-crosses and multiple-crosses that would confuse an accountant.  Good cops and bad cops, stupid cops and brilliant detectives, organized crime and disorganized crime, professional hitmen and deluded stalkers and unlikely-seeming criminal masterminds.  Deaver is justly famed for getting the details of forensic science right in his novels, but he doesn't neglect the characterization of his cops, his crooks, or the victims.  His characters aren't monsters, superheroes or spear-carriers:  there is only one serial killer story in Twisted, and nearly all of the other crimes happen for reasons that most of us will understand.  Lots of perfectly ordinary people planning murders with perfectly ordinary weapons out of perfectly ordinary motives...  but almost always with a twist.	2004-03-07
US	49494578	R28QAKQ32OYMBY	0743454502	409444903	Second Glance: A Novel (Picoult, Jodi)	Books	5	40	40	N	N	Haunting	Second Glance is an amazing novel, which careens across genre boundaries so energetically that it's difficult to describe (or design a cover for, judging by the results).  It is undeniably a ghost story, and a murder mystery with strong police procedural elements, as well as a romance or two, plus a fascinating slab of historical novel about one of the lesser-known real horrors of 1930s America.  Even if you don't normally enjoy any of these types of book, you may want to read this just for Picoult's skill at creating fascinating characters.<br />Beginning with a great first line - &quot;Ross Wakeman succeeded the first time he killed himself, but not the second or third.&quot; - Second Glance introduces so many characters so quickly that you may find yourself having to take notes before the first chapter is done.  Ross is an investigator of alleged hauntings, who has given up suicide because he suspects he's invincible.  An ancient professor hears a baby crying in an old people's home.  A cop rousts teenagers from a cemetery as it snows rose petals.  Ghostly flies spell out a Native American word for 'baby'.  A mother with a nine-year-old son fatally allergic to ultraviolet light has exchanged day for night, and has nightmares while she's awake.<br />Slowly, these threads and others begin to weave themselves into an intricate tapestry.  As a supernatural thriller, Second Glance is on a par with The Sixth Sense or The Others, or one of Stephen King's novels without the more visceral elements.  Running parallel to the ghost story is an equally well constructed scientific detective story, complete with coroner's reports and detailed DNA charts.  The real strength, though, is the troubled but likeable characters - Ross, Ethan, Shelby, Eli, Cecilia, and others.<br />Second Glance is not without flaws.  The plot occasionally hinges on coincidences which verge on the miraculous.  Some of the clues might as well have neon signs attached, so some of the 'surprises' aren't particularly surprising.  Picoult's children seem too mature for their age - much less convincing than those in Stephen King's It or The Body.  There are inconsistencies in the timeline, such as a character in 2001 having newspaper clippings from 2002.  And the romance subplots and writing become a little mawkish in places, especially near the end.  On the whole, though, this is a thoroughly intriguing novel which should appeal to a wide variety of reading tastes.particularly surprising.  Picoult's children seem too mature for their age - much less convincing than those in Stephen King's It or The Body.  There are inconsistencies in the timeline, such as a character in 2001 having newspaper clippings from 2002.  And the romance subplots and writing become a little mawkish in places, especially near the end.  On the whole, though, this is a thoroughly intriguing novel which should appeal to a wide variety of reading tastes.	2003-11-11
US	49494578	RYB7NDSHDIXP1	0345448359	532522277	Darwin's Children	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Bear continues to evolve	Darwin's Children is the sequel to the Nebula winner and Hugo nominee Darwin's Radio, and like its predecessor, it is a dense, demanding, disturbing, fascinating novel. It's not an easy read, however: it's crammed with acronyms and scientific jargon, and the SHEVA children, with their enhanced senses, often speak in their own language.  A scientific glossary, a short biological primer, and a non-fiction reading list are hidden at the back of the book (and I mean that; I didn't discover them until after I'd finished reading the story), but you may find that referring to these punctuates your equilibrium.<br />Bear also shifts viewpoint characters so frequently that it's sometimes difficult to keep track, especially if you haven't read  Darwin's Radio.  If you're expecting X-men, you may be disappointed; there is some violence, but little in the way of pyrotechnic action.  The tone is more reminiscent of The Hot Zone, gene-spliced with political thriller.<br />Darwin's Children doesn't pull its punches when it comes to politics:  a horrible disease is compared to House Republicans and vice versa, and the only out-and-out villains who appear in the book are a senator and a television commentator.  Bear is also scathing in his depiction of religious fanatics, bureaucrats, talk radio, and the capacity of Americans en masse (though not usually as individuals) to be intolerant, gullible, complacent or savage to the point of attempting genocide.  His scientists are more sympathetic, though never flawless - even Augustine, skilled as he is at the underhanded political games that help him gain power, believes that what he is doing is necessary for the greater good.  All the major characters are well realised, and all change slowly but believably:  some even evolve.<br />Darwin's Children is demanding, but it's also gripping, sometimes frightening, often thought-provoking, and well worth the effort of reading.	2003-08-17
US	49494578	R3I8GVNPMY4MOO	0316602051	985416391	The Jester	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Jest don't take it seriously	The Jester is a fast-moving adventure tale, undemanding but enjoyable, feeling more like a Robin Hood or medieval Indiana Jones movie than a serious historical novel. While it lacks any unambiguously fantastic elements, it's a pure good-versus-evil yarn of a literate and canny peasant who prevails by using his wits, charisma, acting talent, and street-fighter's combat tactics. There's even a hint of Nazgul or Sith Lord in the novel's black-clad Tafurs, especially in the battle between Hugh and Black Cross. Hugh, Emilie and the other good characters are so likeable, and the villains so self-righteous and cruel, that it's hard not to cheer as Hugh's search for his wife eventually turns into a full-scale peasant uprising with him at the head.<br />Hugh's narrative is told in thoroughly modern language (\\"Damn, you're good.\\" \\"Professional courtesy.\\" \\"Knock 'em dead.\\" \\"scorched his own earth\\"), with occasional bursts of humour, and in chapters so short that the it feels as though the authors had attention deficit disorder. The plot is rather predictable, though not without some diverting twists and surprises on the way. The historical setting, though interesting, is mostly used as a backdrop rather than a real part of the story: while some of the characters are motivated by religious fanaticism, most seem very modern in their attitudes. Hugh himself is particularly cynical (even about himself), with scarcely a trace of superstition.<br />If you want an authentic and entertaining history of the Crusades, watch the Terry Jones video. If you just want a fast-paced action-packed tale of an ordinary man taking a stand against zealots and tyrants, this is worth your time.	2003-04-13
US	49494578	R5KO2FNYW43DA	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	See how it runs...	Four Blind Mice is a skilfully crafted thriller, as well put together as a good watch.  It runs a little fast on occasion, as there's almost no hint of time seeming to pass between the murders, and only slows down for the glimpses into Cross's personal life.  Because of the helter-skelter action, the build-up to an explosive series of climaxes, Patterson's terse writing style, and all the two-page chapters, it's easy not to notice that it's a rather short novel.<br />Four Blind Mice is intriguing, exciting, and as frightening as the news.	2003-03-28
US	49494578	R18WY0RWJ0HXDY	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	1	6	7	N	N	Not even a ripping yarn	Perhaps appropriately for a book about one of the original \\"disorganised serial killers\\", Portrait of a Killer is a horrible mess which seems to have been written in a moment of rage.  Murders and other events are described out of chronological order for no clear reason.  Pictures and letters that are supposed to support Cornwell's argument are described, but not shown.  A sketch of a short broad-bladed knife from one `ripper' letter is not referred to in the text, and contradicts Cornwell's description of the knife she thinks the ripper used, nor does it resemble the knives in Sickert's sketches which Cornwell claims prove his guilt.  I applaud her use of forensic techniques (at her own expense) to attempt to solve the mystery, and her exhaustive research of primary sources, but she doesn't explain why she went to so much effort to prove a case against Sickert to the exclusion of other suspects.<br />As in some of her novels, Cornwell depicts the serial killer as a brilliant supervillain, elusive as the Scarlet Pimpernel.  Her cunningly disguised Ripper disappears from the scene of the crime with scarcely a trace and zooms around England and France, taunting the police by writing hundreds of letters in different hands and putting obscure clues into his paintings.  She blames him for assorted deaths that bear little resemblance to the canonical Ripper murders simply because some `Ripper letters' were postmarked from the general area at a some time, yet claims elsewhere that while Sickert wrote many of the letters (i.e. those that seem to prove rather than disprove her case), he had associates post them for him to conceal his whereabouts.  She uses \\"might not\\" and \\"possibly\\" so often that I soon lost count, and all she ultimately PROVES is that Sickert used the same brand of paper as the author of some Ripper letters, and that DNA from the envelope from one of the `Ripper letters' may match that from other letters written by Sickert's and that partial fingerprints on the envelope may be Sickert's.  Unfortunately, there is no evidence that this letter or any of the 600+ others were written by the Ripper, and none of the Ripper's fingerprints or DNA has been recovered from the crime scenes.<br />Cornwell is not the first to accuse Sickert, who titled a painting of a room in his lodgings \\"Jack the Ripper's Bedroom\\" - but Cornwell neglects to mention that Sickert's landlady told him that the Ripper had lived there.  Sickert was undeniably fascinated by the murders, and may have thought he knew who the Ripper was...  but the same is true of many people, including Cornwell herself.  A century from now, someone may look at her novels and, using the same reasoning, find them full of clues that `prove' that she committed many unsolved murders - but I doubt that would be accepted as evidence beyond reasonable doubt.  And neither should this book.the envelope may be Sickert's.  Unfortunately, there is no evidence that this letter or any of the 600+ others were written by the Ripper, and none of the Ripper's fingerprints or DNA has been recovered from the crime scenes.<br />Cornwell is not the first to accuse Sickert, who titled a painting of a room in his lodgings \\"Jack the Ripper's Bedroom\\" - but Cornwell neglects to mention that Sickert's landlady told him that the Ripper had lived there.  Sickert was undeniably fascinated by the murders, and may have thought he knew who the Ripper was...  but the same is true of many people, including Cornwell herself.  A century from now, someone may look at her novels and, using the same reasoning, find them full of clues that `prove' that she committed many unsolved murders - but I doubt that would be accepted as evidence beyond reasonable doubt.  And neither should this book.	2003-01-21
US	49494578	R2U762NCE4NIFQ	1568581491	950529998	Evolution's Darling	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Erratic, erotic, inventive and intriguing	Evolution's Darling is one of the most interesting science fiction novels I've read in the past year.<br />Evolution's Darling is a 'bootstrap', an AI who has achieved sentience despite frequent downgrades by its last owner.  Under the laws of the Expansion, any machine that reaches a Turing Quotient of 1.0 legally becomes a person, rather than legal property - and needing to replace the shipboard computer would wipe out a year's profits for Darling's owner, Isaah.  Darling is also the tutor and companion of Isaah's fifteen-year-old daughter, Rathere, and after Isaah disconnects Darling's sensors, Rathere re-connects them to save her friend, who then becomes her lover.  He buys himself a humanoid body, then he and Rathere leave Earth together.<br />Two centuries later, Darling has become one of the Expansion's most astute dealers in artworks, collecting originals and ideas and sex-related body modifications.  When a new sculpture allegedly done by fellow bootstrap Vaddum comes onto the market, years after Vaddum's disappearance, Darling and many other dealers rush to see it.  While some are prepared to murder their rivals to own the piece, Darling is more interested in its origin.  Is Vaddum dead?  Can robots actually die?  Can intelligent software be copied, and if so, is the copy a forgery or the real thing?<br />Evolution's Darling contains some wonderful inventions: as well as the Turing Quotient as a solution to the ethical questions of owning intelligent machines, Westerfield gives us a wide range of very individualistic robots, from the fiercely competitive hyper-intelligent starships writing anonymous academic papers on passenger service when they're not hurling insults at each other (\\"Number-cruncher!\\" \\"Intuitionist!\\"), to Vaddum, the robotic laborer turned sculptor, to the sub-Turing Wardens, cunning but rigid justice machines.  I also loved the lithomorphs, alien statues on a thousand-century-long migration towards their breeding grounds.  Along with this sparkling inventiveness comes a beautiful prose style:  the only flaw, and that a minor one, is the erratic pacing, with two-hundred-year jump cuts and a fistful of flashbacks disguising a very simple and straightforward plot.<br />Aldiss and Wingrove's Trillion Year Spree defined science fiction (in part) as \\"the search for a definition of mankind and his status quo in the universe which will stand in our advanced but confused state of knowledge\\".  By this definition, Evolution's Darling is uncommonly pure science fiction, because of the questions it raises about the nature of humanity.  When machines can score higher than biological humans on Turing tests, which is really human?  Are two beings with identical Turing ratings actually the same person, and is the art they produce equally authentic?  Is there a difference between justice and aesthetic considerations?  What is alive?  What is dead?  What is original?  What is a copy?  Will any of these concepts still be relevant in a few centuries?  Westerfield quotes Wilde's essays frequently - and it's Wilde the philosopher, not just Wilde the wit - as well as Wittgenstein and Locke, plus sly nods to Alfred Bester and Samuel Delany...  but the book sparkles with ideas and questions, rather than being weighted down with pontification.  It manages to combine character-driven and ideas-driven science fiction, and even begs the question of whether there's any real difference between the two.sparkling inventiveness comes a beautiful prose style:  the only flaw, and that a minor one, is the erratic pacing, with two-hundred-year jump cuts and a fistful of flashbacks disguising a very simple and straightforward plot.<br />Aldiss and Wingrove's Trillion Year Spree defined science fiction (in part) as \\"the search for a definition of mankind and his status quo in the universe which will stand in our advanced but confused state of knowledge\\".  By this definition, Evolution's Darling is uncommonly pure science fiction, because of the questions it raises about the nature of humanity.  When machines can score higher than biological humans on Turing tests, which is really human?  Are two beings with identical Turing ratings actually the same person, and is the art they produce equally authentic?  Is there a difference between justice and aesthetic considerations?  What is alive?  What is dead?  What is original?  What is a copy?  Will any of these concepts still be relevant in a few centuries?  Westerfield quotes Wilde's essays frequently - and it's Wilde the philosopher, not just Wilde the wit - as well as Wittgenstein and Locke, plus sly nods to Alfred Bester and Samuel Delany...  but the book sparkles with ideas and questions, rather than being weighted down with pontification.  It manages to combine character-driven and ideas-driven science fiction, and even begs the question of whether there's any real difference between the two.	2003-01-13
US	49494578	R3LVL0UDTXBD8J	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kills, thrills, and a chilled lizard	Basket Case is not only an excellent crime novel, it's the funniest murder mystery I've read since Bimbos of the Death Sun.<br />Journalist Jack Tagger is forty-six - which, he morbidly notes, is the age at which JFK, Elvis and George Orwell died - and has a dead monitor lizard named Colonel Tom in his freezer.  Though one of the Union-Register's best staff writers, he has been demoted to writing obituaries after insulting the paper's owner, but stubbornly refuses to quit.  When burned-out rock star Jimmy Stoma drowns in the Bahamas, Tagger decides that this is that day's most newsworthy death, even though it means fighting with his editor (who is too young to have heard of Stoma's group) for every extra column-inch of text.<br />After interviewing Stoma's widow, alleged singer Cleo Rio, Tagger decides that Stoma's death is too big a story for the obituary page - a suspicion that's confirmed when he learns that Stoma is to be cremated after a very brief and superficial autopsy that hasn't even harmed the tattoo on his chest.  Tagger becomes even more intrigued after he interviews Stoma's sister, two of his back-up singers, and his keyboardist Jay Burns, and receives several very different accounts of Stoma's last days and future plans.  Then Burns also dies under suspicious and gruesome circumstances, and Cleo Rio's bodyguard breaks into Tagger's apartment to steal his laptop computer, forcing Tagger to defend himself with the frozen lizard.<br />Then two homicide detectives arrive at Tagger's apartment, and things begin to get really complicated.  Tagger continues to investigate Stoma's death, but even after Stoma's sister disappears and another member of Stoma's old group is shot in the butt by burglars, Tagger still can't find any hard evidence that any of the deaths were actually murders.  After discovering a likely motive for the killings, he begins to fear that the criminals may be as stupid as they are ruthless... and therefore twice as dangerous.<br />As well as being a solidly-plotted thriller that builds to a climax worthy of John D. MacDonald, with some moments of genuine heroism on the way, Basket Case gives the reader a delightfully black-comedic tour of the carnivorous world of journalism and the even more cut-throat recording industry, both of which seem naturally to lead to treachery, piracy, kidnapping and murder.<br /><br />All of the novel's characters, even the most minor ones, are colourful but somehow utterly believable:  Emma, the obituary column editor who thinks it's disrespectful to speak ill of even the sleaziest deceased; Juan Rodriguez, sports-writer and conscientious bedroom athlete; the seductive narcissistic one-hit wonder Cleo Rio, and her wannabe producer boyfriend Loreal; the talented but eccentric Jimmy Stoma; his sister Janet, the SWAT-cam internet stripper; Dr Sawyer, the eighty-seven-year-old Bahamian obstetrician and some-time pathologist; 'Master Race' Maggad, the Union-Register's yuppie owner; MacArthur Polk, ancient career hypochondriac and Maggad's nemesis; slimeball politician Dean Cheatworth; Dominic Dominguez, the twelve-year-old master hacker with a necktie phobia; Karen, the pretty morgue attendant who's a sucker for romance; a hang-gliding rabbi; and many others.  The dialogue, similarly, is sharp and funny but completely credible.  So are the excerpts from Stoma's songs (co-written with Warren Zevon of 'Werewolves of London' fame), the accounts of his antics, and the news stories and scandals that the paper's other journalists are covering.<br />Basket Case is intriguing, suspenseful, blackly humorous, and cheerfully cynical but never bitter.  There's a little violence - it's a crime novel, after all - and a smattering of sex, but both are mostly kept offstage and never go over the top (unless you have a serious phobia of frozen reptiles).  It's pure entertainment from the first page to the wonderfully twisted ending, and highly recommended.l as being a solidly-plotted thriller that builds to a climax worthy of John D. MacDonald, with some moments of genuine heroism on the way, Basket Case gives the reader a delightfully black-comedic tour of the carnivorous world of journalism and the even more cut-throat recording industry, both of which seem naturally to lead to treachery, piracy, kidnapping and murder.<BR>  <BR>All of the novel's characters, even the most minor ones, are colourful but somehow utterly believable:  Emma, the obituary column editor who thinks it's disrespectful to speak ill of even the sleaziest deceased; Juan Rodriguez, sports-writer and conscientious bedroom athlete; the seductive narcissistic one-hit wonder Cleo Rio, and her wannabe producer boyfriend Loreal; the talented but eccentric Jimmy Stoma; his sister Janet, the SWAT-cam internet stripper; Dr Sawyer, the eighty-seven-year-old Bahamian obstetrician and some-time pathologist; 'Master Race' Maggad, the Union-Register's yuppie owner; MacArthur Polk, ancient career hypochondriac and Maggad's nemesis; slimeball politician Dean Cheatworth; Dominic Dominguez, the twelve-year-old master hacker with a necktie phobia; Karen, the pretty morgue attendant who's a sucker for romance; a hang-gliding rabbi; and many others.  The dialogue, similarly, is sharp and funny but completely credible.  So are the excerpts from Stoma's songs (co-written with Warren Zevon of 'Werewolves of London' fame), the accounts of his antics, and the news stories and scandals that the paper's other journalists are covering.<br />Basket Case is intriguing, suspenseful, blackly humorous, and cheerfully cynical but never bitter.  There's a little violence - it's a crime novel, after all - and a smattering of sex, but both are mostly kept offstage and never go over the top (unless you have a serious phobia of frozen reptiles).  It's pure entertainment from the first page to the wonderfully twisted ending, and highly recommended.	2002-06-21
US	49494578	R3HZLMWYX7NVJX	1840233427	872273308	The Complete Ballad of Halo Jones (2000 AD Presents)	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Not just a great ballad, but a wonderful space opera	THE BALLAD OF HALO JONES is a wonderful story about an ordinary woman who rises from hazardous poverty in a slum on Earth to genuine - but quiet - heroism in and after an interstellar war. Like Neil Gaiman's SANDMAN series, it's a collection of short stories with an overarching plot, where seemingly minor incidents and characters turn out to be incredibly important later. The moral of the ballad seems to be that there *are* no minor or unimportant people (or even unimportant rats). And if you don't like comics, close your eyes and have someone read \\"I'll Never Forget Whatsisname\\" to you. Highly recommended.	2002-04-05
US	49494578	R8E8F9WUUICXV	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	More fantastic than many fantasy novels.	THE ARCHER'S TALE is an exciting, action-packed novel with interesting and well-developed characters:  Cornwell has done an excellent job of capturing a medieval mind-set, where most people believe in dragons and demons and miracles even though they've never seen any.  It's full of fascinating details about the violent and messy reality of medieval combat, but explanations are never allowed to slow down the pace for very long.  The plot is fairly simple, with some rather unlikely coincidences, but it builds up to a satisfying crescendo, leaving just enough issues unresolved to whet the appetite for the next book in the series.  It's a welcome break from all those fantasy novels where horses are just four-legged jeeps, nothing ever rusts or rots, and magic weapons can solve everything.	2002-02-15
US	49494578	RA0MFALU4BQKD	0451454057	290529238	Aggressor Six	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent first contact story	AGGRESSOR SIX is not only one of the best first contact stories I've ever read, it's also one of the very best first sf novels. The 'Aggressor Six' of the title is a group of five people and a Martian retriever trying to simulate, and thereby understand, the behaviour of an insectoid alien hive culture before it wipes out yet more human colonies. Intelligent and fast-paced, the novel had me completely hooked by page 2 and wouldn't let me go: the characters are interesting, the writing taut and economical, and the inherent tension would do credit to a Hitchcock movie. It amazes and saddens me that so wonderful a book is out of print, unfilmed, and so little known.	2001-10-09
US	49494578	R3GHL6HNWRNOXA	1568581505	549191476	Extremities	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A disquieting muse	Kathe Koja is the author of The Cipher, Bad Brains, Strange Angels, Skin and Kink...  and if you wanted to sum up this collection in ten words or less, those titles would do it, for ciphers, bad brains, strange angels, skin and kink can be all found here.  An even better pr&eacute;cis, however, is the title of one of the stories: 'The Disquieting Muse'.<br />In Danse Macabre, his non-fiction book about horror, Stephen King quotes a review in which a horror film is dismissed as being &quot;for those who like to slow down to look at car crashes&quot; (which, King suggests, is most if not all of us).  Koja's brand of horror is quite different.  Only a few of the 16 tales in Extremities are horror stories, in the sense of having conventionally scary plots and subject matter - ghosts, demons, monsters, madness - but even most of those that aren't have a dreamlike quality that is disquieting if not terrifying, more like the moments before or after a car crash, where shock distorts your sense of time and reality in a way which is painless but in which everything feels vaguely wrong.  Even though all of these stories are told in third person, many have the subjective quality of first-person narrative, making it more difficult to deny or even doubt the insanity of what is apparently happening.<br />Koja's basic plots are simple, but unpredictable; her main strength, apart from her sensual and often surreal style, is her characterization.  As with The Cipher, many of these stories are shaped by how her complex and often bizarre yet believable characters will deal with equally bizarre situations.  In 'Arrangement for Invisible Voices', an impotent man becomes obsessed with the head of a Barbie doll.  In 'Bird Superior', the survivor of a plane crash becomes capable of flight.  In 'Illusions in Relief', an artist specializing in horrific collages is sought out as a faith healer.  In 'Queen of Angels', a nurse believes that a comatose patient is crying pearls.<br />If you're unfamiliar with Koja's work, this is an excellent introduction.  If you like her novels, these stories are just as weird, but tighter and slightly more intense.  Buy it, keep it, and read the stories with intervals of reality between them for maximum effect.r with Koja's work, this is an excellent introduction.  If you like her novels, these stories are just as weird, but tighter and slightly more intense.  Buy it, keep it, and read the stories with intervals of reality between them for maximum effect.	2001-09-07
US	49494578	R1TLIIHVF001TA	0553111035	975856624	Folly	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More psychological than thriller, but worth investigating	Folly opens with an excerpt from a dictionary, defining a folly as (among other things) an often extravagant picturesque building erected to suit a fanciful taste, which is a fair summation of the novel  though unlike some follies, this one is fairly well put together.<br />King does a wonderful job with the psychological part of psychological thriller, capturing both Raes inner strength and terrors extremely well.  For a thriller, though, Folly is very unevenly paced.  King seems to have fallen in love with her setting and the characters who live there, and things move rather slowly in the first 340 pages.  This gives the reader plenty of time to think about whats likely to happen next; I wasnt even slightly surprised when Rae discovered a body or when she solves the murder.  In the last 60 pages, however, King introduces more characters with very little warning, and drops you into an action scene almost as though it were an afterthought.  Its a good ending, with some nice twists, but a little more tension would have helped it.<br />Fortunately, King has a beautifully picturesque style of writing, and her characters are interesting enough  and, for the most part, sympathetic enough  to keep you reading even when not much is happening.  The plot is nowhere near as complex or obscure as, say, a Minette Walters novel, but its much easier to like Kings characters; even her villains and lowlifes tend to have a redeeming feature or two.<br />Folly may not be perfectly constructed, but King has chosen her raw materials  words and characters  very well, and the end result is extremely pleasing.	2001-09-07
US	49494578	R1KP4W4MBK738R	1569472327	428805481	Long Firm	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The great story of a minor villain	THE LONG FIRM is an excellent crime novel with an unconventional approach.  It tells the story of London crime boss Mad Harry Starks from the first-person viewpoints of several of his associates through the 1960s and 70s: his rent-boy turned house-boy Terry; closeted politician Lord Thursby; aging freelance villain Jack the Hat; failed sex-symbol and minor actress Ruby Ryder; and finally, socialist criminologist Lenny.  Arnott's description of scams such as 'the long firm', demurrage, airport rackets and pornography smuggling is fascinating, and so detailed that it feels almost autobiographical.  He has also done a superb job of capturing the seedy side of London in the '60s.<br />When we first meet Harry, he is singing &quot;there's no business like show business&quot; while heating up a poker to torture a former lover, and despite his charm and his attempts to seem respectable, we never forget how dangerous Harry really  is.  The plot mostly concerns Harry's attempt to build up his own empire in the shadow of the Kray twins, with some assistance from a corrupt vice squad detective who wants to see all of London's porn business run by one firm.  Occasional touches of humour lighten the sleaziness, but can't dispell it, and the book never becomes a comedy.  Even if you're not normally a fan of crime fiction, but are looking for a well-written character-driven novel, THE LONG FIRM is well worth reading.	2001-06-11
US	49494578	R1HWXBZY6Z4YZV	0850918782	82873115	The Rabbits	Books	5	7	8	N	N	A simple parable with wonderfully complex artwork.	Shaun Tan's amazing artwork for 'The Rabbits' tells you everything you ever needed to know about Australian history in glorious colour and astonishing detail. This is not only a must-read for children, but for adults - worthy to share space on your bookshelf with Raymond Briggs's 'When the Wind Blows' and 'The Tin-Pot Foreign General and the Old Iron Woman' on one side, and fat volumes of Goya and Hieronymus Bosch on the other. Superb.	2001-05-28
US	49494578	R1BVXBTRVFWUHL	0929480864	860935876	Black Butterflies: A Flock on the Dark Side	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Dark, but not entirely downbeat.	The contents of BLACK BUTTERFLIES have been neatly dissected into 'This World' and 'That World'.  The stories in 'This World' lack overtly fantastic elements, and most of them are very frightening indeed.  Shirley's version of 'This World' seems to be populated largely by psychopaths who murder and rape as much from boredom and bafflement as anything else; one of the few characters in 'This World' to display anything resembling empathy is the computer science teacher in 'What Would You Do For Love?', and she uses computer models to help predict the actions of people around her.  'What Would You Do For Love?' is not only the last story in 'This World', as though it were a segue into 'That World', it's the first in which most of the characters will seem familiar to nearly all of us, and the first with something like a conventionally happy ending.  Shirley's talent is that he enables us to empathise with characters who have so little empathy for others, whether we want to or not, despite gut-punch beginnings that many horror writers might use as a coup de grace.  'That World' throws overt fantasy elements into Shirley's universe, and while some of the stories (such as 'Pearldoll' and 'Aftertaste') are almost conventional horror tales, others are...  different.  'The Exquisitely Bleeding Heads of Doktur Palmer Vreedeez', in which celebrities are encased alive in plastic sheathing for a horrific sculpture garden to the enjoyment of Idi Amin, is a enormously over-the-top sick joke.  'Delia and the Dinner Party', in which a little girl's 'imaginary friend' translates her parents' over-dinner conversations, is a gem, and if you'd prefer something upbeat and dislike televangelists as devoutly as I do, 'Flaming Telepaths' will make your day.	2001-03-25
US	49494578	RD8VFZSOOW2GS	0061057274	137727085	Distress	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A science fiction gem.	Distress is not only the best of Egan's novels that I've yet read, but one of the most inventive and accomplished sf novels I've read in many years.  Andrew Worth is a science journalist in a world populated with ignorance cultists, voluntary autists, and gender migrants.  Having finished the 'frankenscience' series Junk DNA, he turns down an offer to tape a show on the newly endemic Acute Clinical Anxiety Syndrome (a.k.a Distress), to compile a profile of quantum physicist Violet Mosala, currently at work on a Theory of Everything, or TOE.  Worth leaves Sydney and his marriage (both in ruins), and travels to Stateless, a utopian anarchy on an island constructed with pirated biotech.  Plots against both Mosala and Stateless escalate as the novel heads towards an astonishing climax. While Egan is best known for his ideas - and there are more ideas in the first chapter of this book than in many sf novels - his characterization in this book is excellent: Worth is a well-rounded character with his own opinions and motivation, Mosala is a welcome example of a fictional sane scientist, and the asex Akili Kuwale is a masterpiece of sf characterization.	2001-03-25
US	49494578	R23PV8EF4B9W8D	034541215X	291896517	Bimbos of the Death Sun	Books	5	6	6	N	N	If you liked &quot;Galaxy Quest&quot;, buy this. NOW!	&quot;Bimbos of the Death Sun&quot; is the only murder mystery novel I've ever solved by reading the back cover blurb, but if you've ever been to a science fiction convention, you're bound to recognise most of the characters in this book and laugh out loud (and maybe cringe a little) when you do. Its caricature of the best-selling fantasy author is even less flattering than its portrayal of fans and gamers, but you can have hours of fun trying to work out who it's based on. If you live somewhere where you can't get to enough conventions and are feeling nostalgic, or if you've just run one and need cheering up, this is the perfect book for you.	2001-03-17
US	49494578	RUU43I22SGCVI	1883620074	383823957	Death to Dust: What Happens to Dead Bodies	Books	5	30	31	N	Y	An excellent resource for horror writers!	This book is probably the single most useful reference work I have beside my desk, and one of the few I've read cover to cover.  It contains  more details than most of us have ever wanted to know about what happens to  bodies after death - including funeral practices, the hows and whys of  autopsies, the timeline of rigor mortis and decomposition, tales of  cannibalism, body snatching and premature burial...  it's all in here.  Well-written and well-indexed, too.  I cannot recommend it too highly.	1999-02-20
