US	49514977	RRN12TGGI723E	0801063434	235575345	Letters Across the Divide: Two Friends Explore Racism, Friendship, and Faith	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Book On Racism	Let me say upfront that I'm a white conservative male. In &amp; of itself, there's nothing wrong there. However, most white conservative males don't think racism is a problem in America anymore. To anyone out there-white conservative or otherwise-if you share that believe, then this bookmis a must read for you. <br />This book covers reoccuring things like why most whites don't think that racism is a problem anymore &amp; why African Americans answer it so differently. All too often, most white conservatives 0never ask their minoritiy friends &amp; associates if they think racism is still a problem. If they did, they'd get an earfull, just like what is presented in this book. <br />In addition to being an ordained minister, the Lord has also called me to the ministry of Racial Reconcilliation. It's been a tough challenge but by his grace, I've stayed with it. This book has already been a valuable asset to my work. It's helped me to see things through the eyes of an African American (David)&amp; through the eyes of a white guy, too (Brent). In listening to their correspondence back &amp; forth, it's helped me look at several key issues connected with racism that never came to my mind at all. This book also helps to explain why America hasn't moved forward inb the area of Racial Reconcilliation. Sure, we've passed many anti-racism laws. But laws don't change the minds &amp; hearts of people. And laws don't prevent individual racism 1-on-1. <br />This book should be a must read for all Christians out there. If you think you've heard everything there is to know about racism, think again. This book will challenge what you believe on the issue.  <br />As I stated above, I work in the field of Racial reconcilliation. If any of you out there have any thoughts, feelings, opinions, suggestions, etc. on this issue, by all means get in touch with me.	2004-05-10
US	49514977	R34TQ1EYM75MXN	0310203252	799903787	Honestly	Books	5	19	22	N	N	Powerful Testimony & Book	A few years ago I found a new copy of this book at a used book store for a decent price. I gave it to my dad for Christmas because he's an avid reader of non-fiction, especially biographies & autobiographies. I wish I'd read it first before I gave it away. I eventually bought a copy from Amazon & read it recently (4/04). I'm glad I finally read it myself. <br />    Sheila Walsh got saved when she was 11 years old. On the outside, she was a successful Christian talk show host, singer, & author. But she had ghosts from her childhood that she had never dealt with properly. At what seemed like th peak of her success(age 35), she stepped down from her spot as the co-host of the 700 Club & checked herself into a Christian Psychiatric Ward in Washington, D.C. That was probably the best thing that she did for herself. From there on out, God began to work on the the things that had tormented her for so many years. Today she  is happy, healthy, whole, & restored. her life is truly a testimony to what God can do if we surrender totally to him. <br />      Thank you, Sheila, for writing this book. My prayer is that your books, sermons, & music will continue to touch many people as they already have. God bless you, Sheila Walsh!	2004-04-23
US	49514977	R5L8R7QYTF7IY	0854768890	988555255	Letters from a Skeptic	Books	5	33	37	N	N	Great Apologetics Literature	A few years ago, I belonged to a Friday Night Bible study not far from where I used to live. We had a Christmas gift exchange and wrote ona piece of paper our name &amp; what we wanted. I wrote &quot;A Christian book.&quot; Oddly enough, this is what I got in return. <br />These days apologetic literature is all over the place. With the Muslim world vastly growing, books on apologetics are vastly popular. I enjoyed this book because it was an easy read &amp; was very down to Earth. Sometimes apologetic books can be a bit too theological and will be too deep for the average reader. Even though Gregory Boyd works at a Christian college, he made this book understandable. <br />This book started out of letters from Greg's dad, who had lots of faith related questions. His dad, Edward Boyd, was a skeptic/agnostic. His questions were thorough &amp; gut wrentchingly honest. His Son Greg answers his questions honestly and evry straightforward. In about 3 years time &amp; over 30 letters between father &amp; son, Edward Boyd finally got saved &amp; became a Christian. It's neat to read all of the letters back &amp; forth &amp; watch the drama unfold. <br />Now, some of the other reviewers had some trouble with this book. Even though it's not specifically stated, I think it's because of their own theological and/or denominatonal background. It's as though they were saying, &quot;I wouldn't go there defending Jesus.&quot; &quot;My church wouldn't say that.&quot; &quot;What aboyt this issue or that?&quot; As a pastor myself, I can tell you that this is the reason more people in America don't get saved. We're centered too much on our own theological camps &amp; on our differences. What so many negative reviewers didn't say was that Gregory Boyd did explain the tenants of salvation correctly. And in the end, his dad did get saved because of it. <br />Question: can you get past the denominational wars &amp; just simply tell someone about Jesus? If you can, this book will be an asset to you as it was(and still is) to me. If you can't, you'[ll have lots of trouble with this book.	2004-04-02
US	49514977	RWTM5W3ZXIBG3	0884193403	360744825	Hippo in the Garden: A Non-Religious Approach to Having a Conversation With God	Books	5	9	10	N	N	God Still Speaks To Us Today	I came to know James Ryle through Promise Keepers. Then I later watched his testimony on &quot;Life Today&quot; w/James Robison. So I already knew about him. <br />     While I ws familiar with his preaching, I had no idea that he had written books, too(3 to date). This one was his first. It had been out 10 years by the time I read it this year. I was more curious than anything whe I saw the title. Granted, the title and cover are both what I'd call weird. But the book is anything but weird. <br />In the Bible, the are many examples of how God speaks to people. All too often Christians get the idea that God speaking to people and God speaking to us through other people is outdated or is &quot;Old Testament stuff.&quot; In short, that notion is wrong. James Ryle clearly points out that God speaks to people even today. He uses many examples from his own life to illustrate this. I can't say I have a favorite story that he shares from his life because he shares so many in this book. But in sharing his dreams and visions from God, it helped to make his point about about how and why God still speaks to us today. <br />After reading this book, I don't look at God the same or how he speaks to me and those around me. It's caused me to re-examine my walk with the Lord. God bless you, James Ryle!	2003-09-11
US	49514977	RR972PTY5FKZN	0310222656	934181160	Forgiving the Dead Man Walking	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Powerful Book	I originally saw this book in a discount bookstore during summer 2002. I was curious and eventually red the inside flap and back cover. I was intrigued by just that much alone. Then about a year later, I finally ordered me a used copy through a private seller on Amazon. My only regret is that I didn't order this book sooner. <br />     Debbie (Cuevas) Morris was abducted by Robert Willie and his friend. In addition, she was raped 3 times while in thier hands. Her testimony eventually lead to his death sentance, due to some previous murders he committed. <br />     Most of what was said or reported prior to this book focused on Willie, his crimes, and his eventual execution. All too often the law enforcement officials, with help from the media, are so busy tracking down a criminal that people forget all about the victims left in their wake. I do agree that we should go after the criminals and bring them to justice. But what about those affected by their crimes? <br />    Debbie Morris tells the whole thing from start to finish. But don't be mislead. This isn't just a true-crime book. Debbie also tells of the long and painful journey back that she had to make. She had to re-examine herself, her beliefs about criminals and the death sentence, and ultimately about her anger towards God. <br />    Perhaps the best part about this book is how Debbie Morris tells how she came to terms with Biblical forgiveness. Everyone in the world could certainly learn many lessons on just this alone. I say this because unforgiveness will eat you alive. Debbie stresses this point too, because she said that she was still unhappy even after Rober Wille was executed. As she states in the book, justice doesn't automatically bring about forgiveness. Sure, justice should happen. But we still have to have God's help in forgiving others. Justice in and of itslef will not make us happy and live a peaceful life inside. <br />To Debbie Morris-thank you for writing this book. I think that your bookshould be a must reading for all Christians. And thank you for your strong Christian faith. To God be the glory!	2003-09-04
US	49514977	R2KVQIK59D081R	0785256881	185773893	The Maxwell Leadership Bible Developing Leaders From The Word Of God	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Must Have For All Christians In Ministry &amp; Leadership	I've heard John Maxwell speak at Promise Keepers. This was back when he was still a church pastor. Even then, he was quite a comminucator. He good deliver an excellent message and get his ideas across to anyone listening. He was and still a powerful teacher and speaker. <br />I haven't read any of his books on leadership. So I don't know how much of his leadership Bible compares to any of them. But I read this Bible cover-tocover during my daily devotional time in 2002. Prior to reading this Bible, I never viewed the Bible as a leadership book overall. <br />What John Maxwell does is take the Bible and views it from the vantage point of leaders and leadership. He explains the Bible books, characters, and stories and shows how leaders can use it to learn what to do and what not to do. If you're a pastor (as I am) or involved in any other type of leadership, you won't see leadership the same way again after reading and using this Bible. To every thing that's in the Bible, you'll see it in whole new light. And if you're like me, you'll see yourself differently in terms of being a Christian leader. You'll also see those that you're leading differently, too. <br />As another reader stated, this is not a good Bible for the average layman that isn't called to leadership. But if you're in leadership, this book is a must have. And if you know someone in leadership or is called to leadership and isn't there yet, this book would make an excellent gift. <br />Kudos to John Maxwell! Well done!	2003-09-02
US	49514977	RB19MPZNVEFR7	0446365238	190884849	Forbidden Fruit	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Painfully Honest &amp; Heartfelt Book	I read this book during the 1990's while I was still a practicing Roman Catholic. At that time, I was having trouble with many of the church's teachings and practices. This book confirmed some of what I already knew and also opened my eyes to some bigger issues, too. This was an excellent book, but more than in just 1 way.<br />  First, it's a wonderful autobiography. Annie Murphy bears her ver soul and lays her heart on the line for all to see. Some autobiographies do that, others don't. I must applaud Annie for being as brutally honest as she was about everything-the love affair w/Bishop Casey, the chold out of wedlock, the bishop's lengthy silence about the whole ordeal, and of the bishop's refusal to see his son.<br /><br />  This book also exposes the whole double life issue. Many priests around the world have struggled with lust. Any Catholic that knows or has investigated the church's history will tell you that. Due to the behind closed door struggles with lust, many priests live and lead a double life. What they do privately and publicly are often vastly different. This book would lend a lot of support to the argument of why priests should be able to get married. The Catholic Church in Ireland still have trouble acknowledging this story. When asked, the Catholic clergy in Ireland will tell you what they know of it. But they rarely ever talk about it voluntarily without being asked. It's a blackmark on their record to which I'm not sure they've ever recovered from.<br />  In addition, this book is also good at examining the faults of the Catholic Church in general. Even though she was born and raised Catholic in the U.S., Annie also brings up many of the Catholic Church's problems. For example, why does the Catholic Church have certain teachings and doctrines but many Catholics live and believe something to the contrary and still remain Catholic? She cites many examples of this issue. I will say this for Annie. She didn't just disagree with the church and stay like so many others have and still do. She did actually leave rather than stay and complain.<br />If anyone out there is thinking about joining the Catholic Church, I'd suggest reading this book. It will open your eyes, set you straight, and reveal many things you probably weren't aware of.<br />One final note-Bishop Casey is no longer the bishop of Ireland. While he did admit publicly that he did have a child out of wedlock, he has never seen his son Peter that he fathered with Annie. My prayer is that Peter will forgive his father, Eammon Casey, if he hasn't already. In addition, my prayer is that Annie Murphy and Eammon Casey will also find a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, if they haven't done so already. He is there for any and all who earnestly seek him and will forgive them, no matter who they are and what they've done.<br />Sincerely,<br />Pastor Rogerand stay like so many others have and still do. She did actually leave rather than stay and complain. <br />If anyone out there is thinking about joining the Catholic Church, I'd suggest reading this book. It will open your eyes, set you straight, and reveal many things you probably weren't aware of. <br />One final note-Bishop Casey is no longer the bishop of Ireland. While he did admit publicly that he did have a child out of wedlock, he has never seen his son Peter that he fathered with Annie. My prayer is that Peter will forgive his father, Eammon Casey, if he hasn't already. In addition, my prayer is that Annie Murphy and Eammon Casey will also find a personal relationship with Jesus Christ, if they haven't done so already. He is there for any and all who earnestly seek him and will forgive them, no matter who they are and what they've done. <br />Sincerely, <BR>Pastor Roger	2003-08-14
US	49514977	R1EJMZZTY7MMCR	0785271708	969766474	Rebel With A Cause	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Wonderful Biography	This is a very powerful book. Franklin Graham is the son of Dr. Billy Graham and Ruth Bell Graham. This is his story of &quot;Growing Up Graham,&quot; and all of his struggles. He pulls no punches about his life and times. To all of you out there who've lead a rebel life as I once did, you'll love this book. In short, it's a story of growing up in and around Christianity. As he ran from Jesus, he eventually ran right to Jesus and did get saved. He also tells of his life in the ministry after his conversion. So, to anyone who feels called into the ministry, this book will be a great resource for you as well. <br />If you know of someone who hasn't gotten saved and is fighting it, or if you know of someone that was once a renegade and eventually got saved, this book would be an excellent gift. <br />Thank you Franklin Graham for being so honets and sharing your story and of your public display of your Christian faith. Keep up the good work!	2003-07-18
US	49514977	R30IFDGNCQIXYC	0785267050	102755468	Living Beyond the Limits: A Life in Sync with God	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Nice Follow-up Autobiography	This book picks up where &quot;Rebel With A Cause&quot; leaves off. To those that have read his first book, read this one next.<br />In this book, he tells about his life and ministry with his father, Dr. Billy Graham, and with his own ministry, Samaritan's Purse. You'll get an insider's view on what it's like to distribute relief aid to people in need around the world. He also talks about getting out of your comfort zones and what it means to &quot;Live Beyond The Limits.&quot;<br />Once again, hats off to Franklin Graham. Keep up the good work!	2003-07-18
US	49514977	R75757JC3NFPG	0785264663	900340022	Trust And Tragedy Encountering God In Times Of Crisis	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent for dealing with Tragedy, Trauma, & Loss	One again Tommy Tenney has come through. Right after the events of 9/11/01, the Lord prompted Tommy Tenney to write this book. Tommy then felt that the TBN broadcasting audience should have the first shot at it. TBN is one of mailing lists that I'm on through the ministry. So, in February of 2002, I got a copy of this book.<br />    One of the weaknesses of many Christians is that they don't know what to do when extreme bad things happen (tragedy, trauma, loss, etc.).  First, it's hard enough to deal with when those things happen in our own lives. But when they happen to others and they turn to us for advice & support, we're just as lost. <br />    In this book, Tommy Tenney tells us what to do during those times of pain & heartbreak. What he explains can be used for us or for others when they go through tough times. As it was no surprise to me, he quotes from the Beautitudes and how they apply to us today. As Tommy said, \\"God is waiting to meet us on the way home from the funeral.\\" In other words, God is there for us no matter what we're going through. Sometimes we feel as if we need more of him. <br />    Kudos once again to Tommy Tenney. If you're going through something that's been difficult or already have, this book is for you. If you know someone that is going through a tough time or the aftermath of it, this book would be the perfect gift for them.	2003-03-28
US	49514977	R2S0WJPG607BAV	0807059056	774181076	Making Waves: An Anthology of Writings By and About Asian American Women	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Great Collection of Nom-Fiction from Asian American Ladies	Let me first qualify myself in saying that I'm not Asian nor am I female. I'm a Caucasian male who is also a pastor. Most of the people that I worship with and minister to are Asian Americans. I became fascinated with it when I read about it on Amazon a few years back. Not Long later I read about \\"Making More Waves,\\" a follow-up book with many of the same ladies from the first book. <br />    This book details the struggles that Asian ladies go through. Some of the things covered are immigration, tension w/parents, growing up in 2 cultures (Asian & American), sexism, racism, interracial marriages, among the many. It really is thorough from start to finish. One of the best parts about it is that it's written by several ladies, not just one. So in the end, you hear many voices instead of just one. <br />     This book has been an immense help to me, both personally and professionally. It was both an eye-opener and a life changer. I'd recommend this book to all Asians and those who are friends with, dating, or married to an Asian.  <br />Kudos to Elaine Kim and the other ladies that wrote this book!	2003-03-14
US	49514977	R3AVHOHO3LBDTA	1586400088	284964207	Experiencing the Word New Testament: Burgundy Bonded Leather (Holman Christian Standard Bible)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Nice Modern Rendering Of The New Testament	Being in the ministry and also an avid reader, I'm always looking for new stuff to read. I found this one purely by accident as I was doing some research on the internet. A few days later, I ordered me a copy at a Christian website. It was probably the best investment I made in 2002.<br />I agree with the reviewer named Ken in what he said regarding the NIV. Being a pastor I can shed some insight. Even though the NIV is a popular version of the Bible and I do own one, there are some problems with it. The probelms are all with the translation of the text. When the translators put the NIV together, they were not sure what to do with many of the words. So, in the process, many of the words sound odd in the NIV. The average layman wouldn't notice it unless they read a different version of the Bible. Then, many questions would soon arise. <br />Why is this version different? The HCSB New Testament is what the NIV would've sounded like if it were taken straight from the Greek and was in modern English. All of the language &amp; wording are made simple enough so that there's no question as to what the translators meant. And unlike the King James Version, you don't need a dictionary or have to understand Shakespeanian English to understand it. This version is really that understandable and that direct. <br />But there are a couple of added features to this version. Henry T. Blackaby adds thought provoking questions and comments in the margain. His comments are all based on a passage that's on that particular page. Mind you, his comments &amp; questions don't change any of the content of the Bible. But what he says will make each page &amp; passage more direct and personal to you. Some of his comments &amp; questions include, &quot;What has God called you to?&quot; &quot;God is still in control of things.&quot; &quot;Let your light shine for others to see.&quot; As I read through each passage, I get the sense that his comments are divinely inspired. <br />The other thing that's different about this translation is that he includes many Greek words from the original Greek New Testament. He translates and explains them and tells how they were &amp; still are relevant to the gospel. Since I'm a pastor that hasn't been to the seminary, this has been very helpful to me. <br />I'd recommend the HCSB New Testament to anyone who needs a more accurate version of the New Testament that they can understand. I'd also recommend this to anyone in Bible college, the seminary, or in any type of Christian leadership. <br />Kudos to Henry T. Blackaby!	2002-12-13
US	49514977	R1T4KH25WH1D4U	0800790588	212075349	God Is a Matchmaker	Books	5	43	44	N	N	A Must Have for Christians Looking For A Spouse	I was praying for a spouse for a long time. By suggestion of a Christian mentor, I got a copy of \\"Spirit Filled Believer's Handbook,\\" also by Derek prince. I went to Amazon to see if he had anything else availible. Oddly enough, there were several titles, including this one. Not long later, I ordered a copy off of the internet. I'm certainly glad I did, too. <br />    This book basically uses the Bible and lays down a foundation for the do's and dont's of finding a Godly spouse. In addition to using the Bible, Derek tells of how he met Lydia, his first wife. She died many years after they were married. Then, a few years after that, he met Ruth, his current wife. The 2 chapters on his wives and how it all happened really helped me understand the rest of the book. <BR>   <BR>    But the best part of the book are the 2 chapters by his current wife, Ruth. Even though she only wrote 2 chapters, they are the longest chapters in the whole book. She tells what to do and what not to do in terms of looking for a spouse. While Derek's chapters were great, hers were different. Ruth tells of a lot of mistakes she made when she was married previously to Derek. Her chapters will help Christians avoid the pitfalls that she went through while she was seeking a spouse and her eventual and tragic first marriage. <br />    Oh, I'm still praying for a spouse. However, this book has changed my prayers on the matter and what I should and shouldn't do on my end of things. It was truly an eye-opener. This book should be read by all Christians seeking a spouse and also by Pastors, deacons, elders, lay leaders, and people in the Christian counseling field. Believe me, it'll change the way you see courtship and marriage.	2002-12-03
US	49514977	R25QSQ98C93FUY	1576831949	434470161	The Message: The Old Testament History Books in Contemporary Language	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Excellent rendition of Old Testament history books!	I bought this at a Border's store earlier this year. I now have the entire Bible in Eugene Peterson's Message translation. This one merely completes the set for me. <BR>    I really enjoyed reading this one in my daily Bible reading. I especially enjoyed reading about the ladies of the O.T., namely Ruth & Ester. Those 2 are perhaps my 2 favorite female characters in all of the Bible. <BR>     Many people are often intimidated by much of the O.T. of the Bible. They find it too weighty or too theological for the average lay person to understand. Thanks to Eugene Peterson, it's now understandable to everyone. And, like his other Message Bible translations, he has included summaries at the start of each book. So, not only is the book in modern English, but we get a good idea of what eaqch book is about and h0ow it applies to us today. <BR>    Because of Brother Peterson's work, all of us can now read an enjoy the O.T. and get a modern day application for our lives. Amen to Brother Eugene Peterson!	2002-10-14
US	49514977	RYM5KVJUV1IWE	0801056322	362368369	Ministering Cross-Culturally: An Incarnational Model for Personal Relationships	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Must Have For Anyone Ministering Cross Culturally	I found this book while I was browsing Amazon back in the Spring of 2002. I sent away for a used copy of it, and I'm glad I did. <BR>       The author of this book spent a good deal of time on the Island of Yap, which is in the South Pacafic, in Micronesia. He documents his cross-cultural experiences in this book. He tells of both the good and bad of his experiences and how it strengthened him as both a Christian and minister of the gospel. He also tells of the barriers he had to cross in order to effectivey share the gospel to the people of Yap. Overall, this book is a cross between a \\"how-to\\" and a cross cultural autobiography. <BR>      Like Rev. Lingenfelter, I am also involved in cross-cultural ministry. And even though I've never been to Yap, I can understand what he went through. If you do any type of cross-cultural ministry here in America or anywhere else, youshould read this book. It may not have all of the answers you need. But it will indeed get you pointed in the right direction.	2002-10-05
US	49514977	RDILBDS2SNB8F	1577781872	190365029	The Heart of a God Chaser	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Tommy Tenney once again comes through!	I read &quot;The God Chaser&quot; back in 2001. Later, i found this one on the internet and read it. Tommy Tenney gets to the matter of people &amp; God and what the 2 have to do to connect.<BR>       In this book, he explains where the heart of a God chaser should be and how we should get there. His whole premise is to stop chasing other things and get your heart to seeking God full time. <BR>      I would make this suggestion. If you haven't read &quot;The God Chaser&quot; yet, read that one first. It wil help set the stage for this one. If you've already read it, this is the next one to read. I can't say anything more. I'll let Tommy Tenney do the rest.	2002-09-07
US	49514977	RFQ2T4LL8NTUV	0802415350	73876269	An Anchor for the Soul: Help for the Present, Hope for the Future	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Excellent Book For Seekers & Christians Alike!	First off, I'm a pastor in Chicago. Ray Pritchard is my senior pastor(I don't work for him; I minister at a nearby college). I've enjoyed his sermons for almost 3 & 1/2 years now. So I'm a bit partial to him. <BR>      With that said, let me say that this is the first book by Dr. Pritchard that I've actually read. It's very down to earth, clear, and easy to read. It took me all of 3 days to finish it(it's only 130 pages long). <BR>       Dr. Pritchard basically tells us that we're sinners, why we're sinners, why we can't save ourselves, and why we need a savior. But most importantly, he tells us what to do to get saved and to find salvation. He doesn't browbeat the reader into submission or to his ideas. But he lovingly explains all that I've mentioned above.  And he proves everything he says in this book. <BR>      This book would be an excellent gift for anyone and everyone you know that doesn't know Jesus personally. Amen to Dr. Pritchard & this book!!!	2002-09-07
US	49514977	RS4WUS7U8NS3Q	1565070453	387275940	Once a Catholic	Books	5	13	24	N	N	A must read for Catholics & Protestants alike	I'ma former Catholic who is now a Protestant and an Ordained minister. I wasn't born catholic. I became one a few years after  I got saved. Boy, I wish i had read this book before I joined the Catholic Church. This book would have saved me a lot of trouble. <BR>       Tony Coffey, in a lovingly and non-bashing manner, explains what is wrong with Catholic teaching. He was born & raised Catholic and became a Protestant in his mid-20's.  He didn't just up and leave in an angry huff as some have. Instead, he took out his Bible and examined the Catholic faith against what the Bible taught. To those reviewers who don't like Tony Coffey's book, I think you need to re-read your Bible against what the church teaches. More specifically, look at Mary & the Saints, Purgatory, the pope, and priests being single. One last item-the Catholic church has and will always maintain that when there's a difference between Catholic Church tradition & the Bible, tradition overrules the Bible. Look at the New Testament at what Jesus said about the traditions of men. You'll be surprised. <BR>      There's 3 other books I'll also recommend in addition to this one: \\"A Woman Rides the Beast,\\" Far from Rome near to God,\\" and \\"When Catholics Die.\\" These 3 books, along with \\"Once a Catholic,\\" should give you plenty to ponder on. <BR>      If you're thinking about becoming a Catholic, read \\"Once a Catholic.\\" If you know of someone wanting to become a Catholic, give this book to them as a present. You'll save them some grief down the road.  <br />      If this book isn't	2002-09-07
US	49514977	R2WDJ9L18F8RMH	0937422460	61067309	When Catholics Die	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Richard Noll is right on target!	Richard A. Noll was a life long Roman Catholic. He did everything the church said to say and do. And yet, in his mid-60's, he felt that something was missing from his life. By his own admission, he was deeply religious and didn't have a personal relationship with Jesus. It was then that he started reading the Bible and compared it to the Catholic church's teachings, found in \\"Catecism of the Catholic Church.\\" To his surprise, he found lots of differences. <BR>      In the end, Richard Noll found by reading the Bible that the Catholic church was wrong on many of its doctrines and teachings. Not long later, he got saved and gave his heart to Jesus Christ. He also says that during these last few years he's been much happier inside than he was all of the previous years. <BR>      If you're thinking about becoming Catholic, read this book. Keep your Bible close by so you can verify for yourself all that he talks about. If you know of anyone that wants to become a Catholic, give them a copy of this book. You won't regret it!	2002-09-07
US	49514977	R3K2PO52VHH8IA	1576831264	46428198	The Message: Old Testament Wisdom Books	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Excellent Rendition of Old Testament Wisdom Books	I bought this book used off of the internet in 2000 (I became interested in this book when a friend had given me The Message New Testament as a gift). I enjoyed this version of the Bible more than any other I've read. Let me explain why. <BR>     I'm an ordained minister and have also been a daily Bible reader since April of 1993. To this day, I still enjoy reading the Bible. However, there are some versions that I don't really enjoy as much as others. This one I like because it's in simple layman's terms, or what is sometimes referred as &quot;Wal-Mart English.&quot; That makes it easier for me to explain passages from the Bible, especially the Old Testament. This version takes away a lot of the stuffiness that people often associate with the Old Testament. <BR>    My favorite book in the Entire Old Testament has always been the Psalms. Since I'm not a natural prayer warrior, the Psalms has been helpful with my prayer life. My own prayer life has grown and changed over the years. This version of the Psalms has given me an understanding of God and prayer that I never had previously. And incidently, my prayer life is still growing and changing, too. I hope my prayer life never stays the same, either!<BR>     Thanks again to Eugene Peterson for this version of the Old Testament books of wisdom. This book should be a must for every Christian prayer warrior! <br />In Christ,<BR>Pastor Roger	2002-05-30
US	49514977	RFZ6WORHFCHD2	0801057450	39090049	What Color Is Your God?: Multicultural Education in the Church (Bridgepoint Books)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Great Ministry Tool for 21st Century	I bought a copy of this book used a few years back. It was perhaps the best book I ever found in a discount bin. <BR>    I work in cross-cultural ministry, mostly with Asian Americans. This book was very helpful to me in the work that I do. It covers most of the races that are currenly in America and covers the strengths and faults that are in each of them. This book also tells what must be done to present the gospel to each of them without changing their ethnic culture. I think this feature of the book is excellent because far too often white America thinks that when minority races get saved, they must adopt \\"White Values.\\" Not true! Each ethnic group in the world that has Christians celebrate Jesus in a way that is unique to their own culture. When we evangelize other groups outside of our own culture, when should remember this. <BR>    I'd call this book a must for all pastors, evangelists, and other Christian leaders of all levels in America.	2002-05-18
US	49514977	R1UMY3VBZOK654	1565071999	14385456	A Woman Rides the Beast: The Roman Catholic Church and the Last Days	Books	5	90	129	N	N	Excellent History Book of the Roman Catholic Church	During the summer of 1998, I read this book while on a missionary trip down in Haiti. At that time, I was a Catholic and had been for over 3 years. Mind you, I wasn't born and raised Catholic. However, I wish I'd read this book before I'd converted to Catholicism. <BR>    This book covers much of the dark History of the Roman Catholic Church. Many people out there disagree with its contents. However, if you look at teh footnotes, you'll find that David Hunt used many sources, among them national files from countries around the world where the Catholic Church has had a strong presence. Now, if Catholics wanted to, they could try and prove David Hunt wrong and open the Catholic files in Rome for all to see. Are you surprised as to why they haven't? I'm not. <BR>    For Protestants, this book is good because David Hunt also exposes the doctrines that divid Protestants &amp; Catholics. I was ignorant of many Protestant &amp; Catholic beliefs until I read this book. In doing so, it forced me to dig deeper into my Bible to find out what the truth really was. This book helped me in leaving the Catholic Church and has helped me to embrace my evangelical roots. This, in turn, eventually drew me closer to Christ. I'd recommend this book to all Protestants, Catholics, and those that are thinking about becoming Catholic.  <BR>     One lat suggestion-before you rread this book, open your Bible and read Revelation Chapters 17 &amp; 18. Keep that spot marked as you read this book. Trust me, you'll make some startling discoveries!	2002-05-18
US	49514977	RSGWJBJAL6EKX	0060633875	29780906	Just As I Am: The Autobiography of Billy Graham	Books	5	2	2	N	N	America's Preacher Finally Tells His Story	I've been a big fan of Dr. Billy Graham for many years. I used to love watching his crusades on t.v. back when I was growing up in the 60's and 70's. His preaching always fascinated me. It's funny though, I didn't get saved until 1992! But I certainly can't blame Dr. Graham for that. He planted the seed in my life, and did so repeatedly. <BR>    My mother gave me this book as a Christmas gift in December of 1998, during my last year in college. I finished reading it at work before my college went back to school for the spring semester. In fact, I was so fascinated by his story that I couldn't put it down. I had the entire book read in about 6 days! That's my personal record for a book this long! This book really is that great! <BR>    He covers his entire life, from growing up in western North Carolina up until this book was published. He leaves no stone unturned. You'll read about how he got saved, hearing God's call into the ministry, and his days in Bible college in Florida. You'll also read of his humble beginnings as a church pastor, his becoming the first Youth For Christ evangelist(yes, they used to have them), and how his ministry took off from there. He also tells of the many famous people he's met over the years, from popes and cardinals to presidents, actors, and others. And if you love autobiographies as much as I do, you might eventually feel as if you're walking in his shoes with them. His story is really that powerful. <BR>    At the time I read this, I had just accepted God's call into the ministry. This book help me cement that call and reafirm it, too. After I finished reading it, I knew for certain there was a call on my life. My regret is that I didn't answer God's call to the ministry when I first heard it, as Dr. Graham did. <BR>    If you're an evangelist, missionary, pastor, asst. pastor, youth pastor, elder, deacon, or anyone else involved in Christian leadership, you should read this book. If you think God calling you into full-time ministry or some other type of Christian leadership, this book is for you, too. <BR>    Dr. Billy Graham, thanks for your many years of faithful service to the Lord. You have been a good example to me and others Christians as well. God bless you, sir!	2002-05-16
US	49514977	R1PVPE2GGRQPIR	1578563682	767422583	Every Man's Battle: Winning the War on Sexual Temptation One Victory at a Time (The Every Man Series)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A "Must Read" for all Christian males!	Before I get to this book, I need to respond to the reviewer that said he was single and the contents of this book didn't apply to him. Well, I disagree with him strongly. The title is \\"Every Man's Battle.\\" Every male has faced the issue of lust in his life at one time or another, whether married or single. Some males have had to deal with it more than others, some less than others. No matter which category you're in, you've been through it. <BR>     I came across this book back in January of 2001 through an ex-roommate of mine. His fiance(now wife) gave him this book as a present. I saw it in his room one day and asked him about it. He said I could read it when he finished it. I borrowed it from him, and I'm certainly glad I did. <BR>    This book deals with lust, infatuation, and sexual temptation. But unlike ordinary psychology books, it approaches it from a Christian point of view. Authors Stephen Arteburn and Fred Stoker share what many males go through and also share their own struggles in this area. So it's not just a couple of average Joe Christians talking about something they've studied and reseacrhed. This book lets you inside their hearts, minds, and souls and gives you a first hand account of what Christains males go through. <BR>     In a culture that presents females in every way that the eye can imagine, it's nice to find a book out there that presents help to the Christian male that wants to overcome his struggles with the issue of lust and sexual purity. If you're a Christian female and you're married to or dating a Christian guy, this book will help you understand what they go through and how you can be supportive of them and uphold them in prayer. <BR>     I'd consider this book a \\"must read\\" for all Christian males, and for those Christian females who are concerned for them, too. Praise God for this book and its contents!	2002-05-13
US	49514977	R394290YEH1R4O	0830816844	864782264	Losing Face & Finding Grace: 12 Bible Studies for Asian-Americans	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Wonderful Bible Study Guide For Asian Americans	I saw this book while I was doing inner city missions during Summer 2000. Later that year, I bought a copy of it for myself. It is perhaps the best Bible Study guide for Asian Americans I've ever found. <BR> This book has 12 Bible studies that are designed for Asian Americans who struggle with their cross-cultural identity. Some of the topics covered are grace, the Asian work ethic, filael piety, marriage, and other things that Asian Americans go through. It also provides a Biblical framework, so that when Asians ask, \\"How do I overcome this?\\", they have a ready reference. This Bible study guide is also very helpful for those Asians who don't feel totally Asian nor totally American, either (this is what Asians commonly refer to as \\"Bamboo\\"). <BR> Incidently, I'm not Asian. I'm a Caucasian Pastor out of Chicago who God has called to worship with and minister to Asian Americans, mostly ages 18-30. Anyone out there who has full time contact with Asians like I do should go through all of the 12 Bible studies in this book. It will better equip you for ministering to and worshiping with Asian Americans. I'm sure it will be a blessing to you as it has been to me. <BR> I'd like to personally thank Tom Lin for seeing the vision to do this and also to InterVarsity Press for putting it out. Praise God!	2002-05-13
US	49514977	RCL41MP98DQKY	1576831957	793656576	The Message Old Testament Prophets: In Contemporary Language	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Excellent rendition of the Old Testament Prophets!	This book is an excellent rendition of the Old Testament Prophets. Like the other Message translations of the Bible, it's written in street English, or what some call &quot;Wal-Mart English.&quot; Peterson takes what many people call a boring section of the Bible and makes it comprehendable and relevant for today. Peterson doesn't change the what God intended to say. He merely makes the Old Testament Prophets readable, understandable, and enjoyable. <BR>    Mind you, this is not a good study Bible for seminary students or those into weighty theological issues. To those people I'd recommend a study Bible or perhaps the Amplified version. However, if you want to read and understand the Prophets or if you're trying to explain certain Old Testament passages so that people can understand it, this book will be extremely helpful to you. I highly recommend this book to every Christian!	2002-05-13
US	49514977	RJGC14R9SELE5	084991437X	403659288	Jesus Among Other Gods: The Absolute Claims Of The Christian Message	Books	5	35	41	N	N	A great book to get started on Apologetics	I first heard Ravi Zacharias at Moody Bible Institute's Founder's Week a few years back. I became more aquainted with his work through several of my local Asian friends who are also Christian. In short, I'm glad I found out about him. <BR>    In this book, he first covers his own story on how he came to Christ while a teenager in India. That part of the story alone is very moving itself. Getting saved and becoming a Christian in India is indeed a feat, mainly because India is the Pantheistic capital of the world.  Again, his conversion is very dramatic and powerful. I'm praying that he will one day write his autobiography. <BR>    Throughout the rest of the book, he touches base on some of the other world's religions. Mind you, he doesn't delve into them heavily. What he does is that he gives a foundation for why Christianity is what it says it is and how this shatters some of the other beliefs that are floating around. His starting point is John 14:6 where Jesus says, &quot;I am the way, the truth, and the life. No one comes unto the Father except through me.&quot; Jesus is saying that he is the only way to God. Ravi not only agrees with this but also gives a decent beginning on how Christians can prove this, too. <BR>    I must warn you-if you're one of those left-wing Christains who believe that Jesus isn't the only way to Heaven, watch out! You will have some trouble with this book. I guarantee it! But to the rest of you who want a nice book on how to defend your Christian faith against other religions, this book will give you a good start. I highly recommend it!	2002-05-13
US	49514977	R1PNJO43VJMYT	0310211883	486315575	Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Powerful Book!	I'm a pastor in the inner city and work basically with young adults, mostly ages 18-30. Not long ago, I was talking to a college student that I mentor. I told him that God called me to do a church plant near the university campus. He gave me his copy of \\"Fresh Wind, Fresh Fire\\" to read. That was perhaps the best thing he could've ever done for me. <BR> As you'll learn reading this book, this story is perhaps one of the most unorthodox ways to get into the ministry, and yet eventually pastoring a church that many Christians in America have heard of. <BR> Jim Cymbala was talking with his father-in-law one day when he said to Jim, \\"Why don't you think about going into the ministry?\\" Jim said, \\"I haven't been to seminary or Christian college.\\" His father-in-law said, \\"You don't have to have any of that. All you need is the call of God on your life.\\" Those words were what eventually launched Jim Cymbala into the ministry. <BR> When Jim Cymbala took over the Brooklyn Tabernacle, the church had less than 30 members and many assorted problems. But through the power of the Holy Spirit and a strong Tuesday Night church prayer meeting, things began to change. The result is the famous church that people still talk about to this day. <BR> I must warn you-if you're a religious legalist who argues that every ordained minister should go through seminary to be successful, you'll have lots of trouble with this book. But to the rest of you out there, I'd recommend this book to you. This is a book for pastors and all other Chrsitains, too. If you're wondering how to do a successful church plant, make your church grow, or wake up a dead church, you can find most of your answers in this book. If you're wondering what gift to give your pastor, I'd recommed this book, if he hasn't read it already.	2002-05-10
US	49514977	R2W08YW6V9IID3	0768420164	217544588	The God Chasers: My Soul Follows Hard After Thee	Books	5	5	8	N	N	Excellent Book!	One of the problems in modern day America is that we chase God the wrong way. As Tommy points out, we chase God with Christain formulas, programs, seminars, classes, and many other man made things. Mind you, these things are okay. But in using these things, we've created a &quot;system&quot; for finding and following God. In doing so, we become very smart about God and many God-related issues. But in the end, our hearts aren't any closer to God. In fact, these man-made things can actually pull us away from God if we've been doing them too long and don't already have a decent relationship with God.<br />  In this book, Tommy Tenney tells how to &quot;Chase God&quot; the right way. In short, he says that nothing else is needed but a broken and sincere heart before God and a prayerful life. Every thing else, and I mean everything, is secondary.<br />  If you've recently become a Christian or if perhaps you're an established Christian who seems to have drifted away from God, read this book. If you're in the latter catagory, I'm sure that the Holy Spirit will tell you exactly why you're in the shape you're in.<br />  This book certainly isn't the &quot;cure-all, end-all&quot; to all of the problems a Christian has. But it'll certainly give you an excellent starting point if you're trying to get back on track and how to stay there.	2002-05-10
US	49514977	R132SRYTJOLL3D	0785267107	648674807	The God Catchers Experiencing The Manifest Presence Of God	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Super Follow-up Book!	In &quot;The God Chasers,&quot; Tommy Tenney told how to become a God chaser the right way and how to get out of a stagnent spiritual life. This book goes to the next level. In &quot;The God Catchers,&quot; He tells about exactly what is wrong with worship in today's churches. He also talks about how churches have had the wrong focus and haven't been fulfilling God's intended purpose. He pulls no punches. He tells the truth and lays it all on the line. In fact, religious legalists and those that do church playing by the numbers will have a lot of trouble with this book. <BR>    This church should be read by everyone who wants to see their church get back on track. In addition, every single pastor in America should read this book. This will certainly tell you what to do to get your church where God wants it to be and where your focus needs to be. I must warn you though, if you're used to man's ways and a regular organized system and style for having church, this book may rock the boat a bit for you. This book is only for those that are serious about getting their church out of man's will and into God's will. After all, isn't that where we should be anyway?	2002-05-10
US	49514977	R5J8KCOKED37O	0830813586	449686088	Following Jesus Without Dishonoring Your Parents	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Great book to explain the trouble of living in 2 cultures	I'm a Caucasian pastor whom God called to minister to and worship with the Asian American community, mainly ages 18-30. Since I didn't grow up inside the Asian culture, I was ignorant to many of the struggles that Asian Americans go through. Thank God for this book! <BR>    This book examines many of the issues that Asian Americans face, including the Asian work ethic, marriage, the struggle with Asian parents while living in western culture, among the many. While the authors may not have quoted from lots of scripture, they still did an accurate job of letting you inside their hearts, minds, and souls. And they did it from a Christian point of view. Anyone who is a serious Christian can see their Christianity shining through as they share thier lives. So they did honor Christ by sharing themselves, as John 14:6 commands us to do. For me, this book was certainly an eye-opener. <BR>    While this book may not be a &quot;how to&quot; in terms of how Asian Americans should deal with things, it provides a decent framework for looking at things and sorting things out.  In short, it provides a good starting point for the journey. I recommend this book to all Asian Americans and to those who, like myself, minister to and worship with them. As I said when I started out, thank God for this book.	2002-05-08
US	49514977	R1HGSZJ1KJLH21	0830816844	864782264	Losing Face & Finding Grace: 12 Bible Studies for Asian-Americans	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Excellent Bible study for Asian Americans	If you haven't seen any of my other book reviews, let me first tell you about myself. I'm a white guy who worships with, pastors, and mentors Asian Americans, mostly 18-30. I was first called by God to be a cross cultural pastor to Asian Americans back in 1996. I've read many cross cultural books that have helped me, this being one of them. <BR>     As for this book, I'd call this a must read for anyone who is Asian American, from the 1.5's, 2nd generation, and beyond. You'll understand so much more about yourself, your ethnic heritage, and your Asian culture in light of the Bible. This Bible study guide addresses such issues as grace, the Asian work ethic, God's will vs. Parent's will, and other simular topics that Asian American Christians struggle with.  <BR>    So many Asian-Americans struggle with their cross-cultrual identity while living here in America. While this book may not be the &quot;end all&quot; for all Asian American Christians and their struggles, this will certainly get the ball rolling in terms of the healing process. It will also help them come to terms with their cross cultural identity by showing what the Bible says and what they should live out. <BR>    In short, this book opened my eyes to many of the struggles that Asian American Christians go through. Again, I'm not Asian, nor do I pretend to be. However, this book has made me better prepared for the ministry that God has called me to.	2002-05-07
US	49514977	R1PNOC3CJG7E43	0807059137	59437493	Making More Waves: New Writing by Asian American Women	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Excellent Read!!!	I bought a copy of \\"Making Waves\\" by the same authors. It was a powerful book, to say the least. I really admired the honesty by all of the Asian American ladies that contributed to the book.  <BR>    This book, which is the follow-up, is also a powerful book, too. You see, even though I'm a Caucasian male, I'm a Christian and an ordained minister. Most of the ministry and worship I do is with Asian Americans(most of the are college age and young adult). Since I didn't grow up Asian, this book and its predecessor were a valuable resource to me. <BR>     After seeing this book, I'm more sympathetic to the struggles that Asian Americans go through, and especially the females. Too often Hollywood and the Far Eastern Movie companies have portrayed Asian Females as the sultry and sexy \\"Gesha Girl\\" stereotype. This book lets the ladies speak and takes the reader into their hearts and minds. It lets the reader know what they've actually been through, what they struggle with(and still do), and what they do to surivive. I'm glad they've shared what they did. I think it's long overdue that their voices were heard. <BR>    I would reccommend this book to anyone doing ministry to Asian American females as I do or to any male dating or married to an Asian American female. Praise God for Elaine Kim and the Asian Women United!	2002-04-19
US	49514977	R1FZ977MIE3Y1G	158063155X	146773255	Three Dog Nightmare: The Chuck Negron Story	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Excellent Book!!!	I grew up to Three Dog Night and was always a big fan.  In addition, I used to drink and take pills, too.  So I could relate to his story.<BR>    Chuck gives an inside look at the music business and all of the things connected with it, both the good and bad. In addition, he also tells the pitfalls of alcoholism and drug addiction that go on in the industry. So many people in the entertainment field had fallen prey to alcohol and other drugs. And sadly, many of them died from the effects of it. As Chuck says himself, he should have died numerous times. But, he lived to get straight and sober.  His story of recovery is one of hope that will inspire anyone who struggles with substance abuse or for those that love someone that has problems with addiction.  <BR>    Thanks for sharing your story, Chuck.   The world needed to hear it. Praise God for you!	2002-03-09
US	49514977	R33EOJ1V901YBS	1576831027	163199009	The Message: New Testament (Mass Market Edition)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Excellent Modern Rendition of The New Testament	During the summer of 2000, I was given this book by a Bible study leader just before I left for an inner city mission trip.  <BR>    I have a few different versions of the Bible.  And while I love them all, this one is my favorite.  It's written in what a lot of people call \\"street English,\\"... It's a good book for the average lay person to refer to when they're explaining things of their Christain faith to others.  It's laid out in regular story form and is very easy to understand, too.  I'd recommend it to anyone.  <BR>    To Eugene Peterson, nice job!!!	2002-03-09
US	49514977	R197D28OAE0MVY	0817013040	74809699	Pursuing the Pearl: A Comprehensive Resource for Multi-Asian Ministry	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Must for anyone ministering to Asian Americans!	I met Rev. Ken Fong at Intervarsity's Urbana 2000. I was at all 4 of his large group Bible studies and also at his small lecture as well. His speaking ability is very well. He's an excellent oral communicator. <BR> Now for the book. This book does a very slick job of addressing ministry issues along with cross cultural issues, too. If you've ever wondered A)How to minister to Asian Americans B)Why Asian churches are growing so fast or C)How to reach out to Asian Christians, then this book is for you. It will tell you everything you need to know on how to deal with these issues while also living within the western culture. <BR> I must admit, I'm not Asian(I'm Irish, English and Native American of 2 tribes). But I worship and minister with and to Asian Americans here in Chicago. Books like this have been very helpful to me.	2002-02-26
US	49514977	R3EY1ICVWF6Q9T	0671009575	6969957	Warrior Lessons: An Asian American Woman's Journey Into Power	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent book! A must read for all Asian American females!	This book was very insightful, informative, and powerful! This opened my eyes to a lot of the struggles that Asian females go through. I do lots of one-on-one counseling with Asian college kids and young adults, many of them female. This book definately opened my eyes to a lot of things and helped me understand their struggles. <BR> Overall, Phoebe Eng and the ladies she interviewed really opened their hearts and minds to lend themselves for this book. In addition to this, I'd also recommend Making Waves and Making More Waves by Elaine Kim and others, along with Yell-oh Girls. <BR> I think it's high time that the world stop seeing Asian ladies like the stereotypes we've been taught and started seeing them as God does. <BR> Again, Thanks to Phoebe Eng for putting this together and for all of those brave ladies who came forward and shared thier stories. God bless each and everyone of you!<br />...	2002-02-19
US	49514977	R3QFRGDC6EJ7ZF	1878442724	579610107	Far from Rome Near to God	Books	5	40	67	N	N	A Must For All Roman Catholics!!!	I'm a former Roman Catholic. I got this book as a recent Christmas gift from a friend. I must admit, the evidence in this book is very compelling. If you're a Catholic struggling with your faith, you need to read this book. Or if you're thinking about becoming a Catholic, you need to read this book. God is found in the Bible and in its teachings. I must warn you-you'll find a lot of differences between the Catholic Church and the Bible if you read this book. As you read it, I'd suggest keeping a Bible close by. You'll find that all of the information these former priests give is 100% accurate. Excellent book!!!	2002-01-04
