US	49517622	RCBAIT9B9BTZZ	0140188592	468027632	Gravity's Rainbow (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	American Splendor	This book's a masterpiece. Sell it forever at Amazon, teach it in the colleges, make Americans recite passages aloud at ballgames. The best of `60s loopiness yoked to Great American Novel-sized ambition. Take THAT Europa-we've got a bull of our own.<br /><br />Enjoyment topped out for me though at about the halfway point. After that it's the same soup--really really good soup, but pretty much the same chunks floating in every spoonful. I kept comparing Pynchon to Joyce in the intricacy and sense of omniscient mastery over every conceivable register of life--that feeling there's nothing the writer doesn't know or can't do--and to Kerouac in the speedy rhythm, listy riffs, and joyful Americanismo.<br /><br />Forced to choose though, I'd put Ulysses or Visions of Cody on that perpetual Amazon sale over GR. The book seems to want it both ways, it wants a gleaming Modernist structure that intimidates with its grandeur and a spontaneous bop rhythm that's open to the jazzy thrill of the random. For me, the one tends to undercut the other: the druggy spontaneous bits come to feel like part of a larger \\"message\\" (one you're never fully hip to), while the Great Themes over time can look like just excuses for inspired blowing. The prose is often pretty and very funny and always masterful. But maybe that's just it--Pynchon's unwillingness to give up mastery in a story where only the anarchists are heroes. A great book, but not a reengineering of The Novel like those other two are: more like a brilliant extension of the existing unit's rooms.<br /><br />Still, Gravity's Rainbow is a tour de force, and only draws these criticisms because it blasts for the stars.	2005-04-28
US	49517622	R1A0XRGB0LH3MH	0945953097	248552196	Now It's Jazz: Writings on Kerouac & the Sounds	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Nice 'N' Easy	This book is terrific for what it is: a run of occasional loveletters to the 'Kerouac sound' and the musics it grew out of. Consider how pretentious and insidey this book could have been: Coolidge is an astounding poet who's infused the time forms of jazz into his writing for decades. He's also a seasoned drummer with an encyclopedic knowledge of all that swings. But \\"Now It's Jazz\\" never once made me feel like a square, or like Coolidge holds the key to some esoteric kingdom you'll never enter without him. More often than not he steps aside from his own experience to let the music and the language he uses to describe it do the talking (the special way he writes about jazz in spatial terms reveals a lot about his own work). Most of these pieces sound spontaneous, like Coolidge wants to enact in the writing the speed and alertness he loves so much in Kerouac or Rollins. I was a little surprised by his tastes in jazz, which balance somewhere in the mid-Fifties bop he first discovered as a kid. Thought he'd be more \\"out there.\\" But that's part of the book's charm: Nice and Easy, not (here) trying to push things forward, just looking back warmly on the sounds he's loved.	2005-04-26
US	49517622	R2O8221JPUY4XZ	0743228154	819450417	Chronicles, Vol. 1	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Bound for Glory	Dylan's offbeat chronicle of his rise, fall, and rise as, well, Bob Dylan, is a grand, absorbing read. Dylan's not big on literary pyrotechnics, but he has a special diction that's entirely his own: solid, well-worn, almost courtly words like \\"grandeur,\\" \\"fire,\\" \\"glory\\" and \\"honor\\" rub up against stock phrases and bumper-sticker clich&eacute;s in a rhythmic, addictive prose that delivers poetry without pretension and leaves the author strangely removed from the \\"I\\" he describes. His account of recording \\"O Mercy\\" has to be one of the most searing descriptions of the creative process I've ever read, while his picture of the Greenwich Village folk scene, with its quirky hierarchies and surprising generosities, goes by easy enough on the surface but delivers a first-class impression of a vanished place and time.<br /><br />For a life of such celebrity, it's welcome to see the obscure and offbeat command most of his narrative attention, from never-to-be-heard-from-again folk troubadours to Louisiana swamp shop owners. Dylan's famously evasive, but this book feels like an honest effort to account for himself in his own terms, to \\"get real\\" in a way those folk records felt real to a young man from Hibbing in the `60s, and still do. Can't wait for the next installment.	2005-04-04
US	49517622	R802L5K3L20YS	0811214109	643159361	Pierce-Arrow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Romancing the Microfilm	\\"Pierce-Arrow\\" has a reach and ambition few books of history (or poetry for that matter) can match. Howe makes fascinating use of biographical fragments from the lives of American philosopher Charles S. Pierce and his 'gypsy' wife Juliette, George Meredith, A.C. Swinburne, Thomas Love Peacock, Alexander Pope, and Theodore Watts-Dunton, with dollops of Husserl, the Iliad, and the Tristan & Isolde story thrown in for good measure. All these figures turn out to be connected in a \\"Six Degrees of Kevin Bacon\\" kind of way, and the incidents Howe picks from their lives conform to a similar pattern: undisputed brilliance, Establishment rejection, long-suffering wives or caretakers, dangerous loves, ignominious deaths.<br /><br />Howe's out to bring the archives to life in a way that recovers one of the poet's most ancient roles: to give a voice to the dead. But the connections she makes can seem so eccentric, so much like facts pulled out of a hat, that the work risks becoming a celebration of her own enthusiasm rather than an insight into her subjects' lives. In the end, I learned a lot more about Susan Howe's obsessions than I did about Charles Pierce's. That's certainly Howe's right as an author, but it tends to unfairly reduce Pierce's life and work to a pre-text for her own poetic concerns. Then again, I can't think of a poet since Pound or Olson doing anything this audacious with the archives. Her book is an absorbing, sometimes maddening attempt to transform neglected microfilm into myth.	2005-02-15
US	49517622	R1IRPDUWZN1K7U	0802137970	623008639	India: A History	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Another India	John Keay cruises through five millenia of India's history with verve, humor, and a sharp eye for the details that help bring distant ages to life. I especially like the way he pulls the curtain back on the historical record to discuss the modern feats of discovery, scholarship, and brain-busting translation that made our current knowledge of India's past possible.<br /><br />Keay's a sensitive interpreter of the socio-cultural side of things, but straight-ahead political history absorbs the larger part of his interest. This may reflect his rather dusty secondary sources, few of which are less than 30 years old. The effect can be tedious as dynasty after dynasty parades across the historical stage and into obscurity. I wish Keay kept a looser grip on chronology and paused more often to consider the wider patterns that gave shape to everyday life and thought. Still, this is a genial and intelligent introduction to the subject that serves up a lot of information with style.	2005-01-31
US	49517622	R282TQN9WFF2OK	097401673X	690137273	Lake Systems	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lacustrine wonder	The fascination of this book began for me with the title. A lake evokes something placid, organic, and self-enclosed, while a system implies connections, often mechanical or sinister. I'm tempted to see Sailers's elegant & fiercely intelligent poems playing off the same tension: moments of gorgeous lyric intensity with echoes of \\"Self-Portrait\\"-era Ashbery shot through with a critical awareness of language, the self, art, landscapes, feelings, etc. as components of larger structures that \\"absorb the unfamiliar into familiar patterns.\\" The effect is a masterful fusion of intellect and imagination, philosophical inquiry and dreamy surprise. Sailers manages to be wistful, assertive, funny, allusive, surreal, and lyrically \\"on\\" all in the same breath. Her poems are like dreams laid out on graph paper then put back to sleep to place the \\"vertical world in question\\" again. I can't think of another poet doing quite the same thing with the language right now; \\"Lake Systems\\" is a beautiful introduction to an exciting new voice.	2005-01-24
US	49517622	R2BXVX4NZPL540	0393320278	699211673	Embracing Defeat: Japan in the Wake of World War II	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Turning SCAPanese	The first third of \\"Embracing Defeat\\" is a brilliant survey of Japan in the wake of WWII. Dower gets at the pervading sense of depression (the 'kyodatsu' condition) while doing justice to the dynamic underground of panpan girls, pulp publishers, black marketeers and hard-living intellectuals that helped define the cultural response to democracy. After that, the book bogs down in detailing the high-political ironies of a \\"revolution imposed from above.\\" Chief among these according to Dower was the staunch U.S. support for Emperor Hirohito and its uneven prosecution of war criminals, many of whom became useful as anti-Communist Cold Warriors in the '50s.<br /><br />Dower's surely right to concentrate on the paradoxes of democracy by fiat and he does a thorough job of analyzing the strange mixture of New Deal idealism and imperial arrogance that fueled Macarthur's six-year rule. But I'm not sure he really accounts for its astounding success. The Japanese embraced Macarthur and his style of paternalist democracy with an almost embarrassing enthusiasm; the constitution that U.S. officials wrote over one week in 1946 is still the basic document for the modern Japanese state. Dower shows how carefully the occupiers controlled their image and points out subtle forms of Japanese resistance wherever it was allowed to emerge. But ultimately I wonder if his anxiety about using Japanese cultural traits to explain the welcome the enemy received hurts his analysis. I see his worry about being imperial; SCAP (Supreme Command for the Allied Powers) routinely used racist assumptions about the 'Oriental mind' to develop policy for democratizing Japan. But Dower may overcompensate by exaggerating the role of American censorship and duplicity in triggering such a warm popular response. Dower shows the considerable war guilt the Japanese avoided by embracing the basic terms of U.S. occupation. But I was still left wondering why he couldn't find more signs of resistance to such a high-handed occupation. For all his detailed analysis, I can't shake the feeling that Dower's missing something vital about why this insanely optimistic experiment worked, despite all the rich ironies and hypocricies he exposes. Still, this is a thoughtful,provocative study that's sure to be a landmark for a long time to come.handed occupation. For all his detailed analysis, I can't shake the feeling that Dower's missing something vital about why this insanely optimistic experiment worked, despite all the rich ironies and hypocricies he exposes. Still, this is a thoughtful,provocative study that's sure to be a landmark for a long time to come.	2004-12-30
US	49517622	R3PWU22GKH3HU5	0670899097	235723201	Dante (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Tuscan Sun	The Peguin Lives series thrives on its clever and sometimes surprising pairings of subjects and writers, often non-specialists with a more personal take on the life. Giving Dante to a Yale English professor isn't the most inspired choice, though Lewis's expertise is mainly American lit. The book shows the marks of several pleasant vacations in Tuscany, with brief pen portraits of the various sites and geographical features that shaped Dante's world providing most of the color in an otherwise dry march through the facts of his life. Lewis often circles back to people or scenes described earlier in the work, which is either a tribute to Dante's own narrative style or a sign of slack editing. If you don't know something about Dante already, this isn't the book to convince you he's one of the world's great writers, or to help explain why. But for a quick tourist map of a complex place and time, it's a short, effective read.	2004-12-29
US	49517622	RBAMJQ5CVCTJ5	074325757X	530152140	The Best American Poetry 2004: Series Editor David Lehman	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Mars Needs More Terrorists	Remember about 10 years back when Nirvana broke open the mainstream for acts like Pavement and Built to Spill? Remember when you could hear their songs on the radio? This year's BAP is like that, with Lyn Hejinian playing Nirvana to a host of thrilling underground acts. You've still got your Billy Collinses and Robert Pinskys assuming their customary air space, but there's a bunch of new names--new names!--from smaller journals that have to give anyone bored with respectable workshop verse some spark of hope.<br /><br />The 'Best American' title's always been a bit of a gimmick: how can a few dozen poets, picked by one person, represent the entire U.S. of A. in all its diversity? And at its best to boot?  What's interesting about the series to me is the guest editors, who play tug-of-war every year over what 'best,' 'any good,' or just plain 'poetry' might mean in a field so shy of consensus on these questions.  Hejinian's given Lehman's rope a harder tug than usual and deserves big hugs for it. I'm guessing a lot of these poets will end up back underground again next year. That's not necessarily a bad thing; not sure I'd want to see Pavement rubbing elbows with Britney at the Grammys anytime soon, either. But we had 2004.	2004-11-30
US	49517622	R1OM4GEVG0N0MX	0785919104	31971673	Nunquam (French Edition)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Either Then or Never	\\"Nunquam\\" forwards the action of \\"Tunc,\\" with Felix still struggling to free himself from the Firm, this time by building an android of the dead Iolanthe for Julian.  Like this synopsis, \\"Nunquam\\" doesn't make a whole lot of sense without the first novel already under your belt.  I found this story duller than \\"Tunc\\"--the settings are less fantanstical and the plot even more perfunctory--but it makes the ideas Durrell wanted to get across in the series much clearer.<br />The all-controlling Firm is revealed as a symbol of our cultural, even genetic, programming:  Felix's atempts to get free of it by running or fighting back are futile.  Freedom comes, if at all, by understanding the inner psychological mechanisms at its heart.  In Julian's case, this takes the form of the desire to resurrect and control Iolanthe.  All the doubles from \\"Tunc\\" make better sense in \\"Nunquam,\\" where Durrell explains the male/female binary--sexual and emotional love--as the only true foundation for a culture, and the one alternative to the contractual relations of possession & control that drive modern capitalist technology.  Very '60s in a way--sex will set us free--but also oddly conservative in the idea that we surmount the problem of a corrupt culture through new forms of beauty and personal relations.  What weakens this argument, if I understand it right, is that Durrell's sympathies seem much more with the lonely, impotent Julian, anxious to bring his dream woman to life, than with Felix & Benedicta, whose new-found love is totally unconvincing as they become willing bystanders to Julian's personal drama.<br />The \\"Alexandria Quartet\\" will probaly remain Durrell's best claim to fame, but I had a few fun evenings with this book and I bet you will too.  On to the Avignon Quintet!!	2003-06-13
US	49517622	RAG7HB2J9N2VF	0785918965	775107681	Tunc	Books	4	13	13	N	N	'The Firm' on Freud and Steroids	Our hero:  a genius inventor living in Athens with a prostitute destined to murder her brother and become an international film star.  His nemesis:  Julian, suave & shadowy head of a huge multinational firm out for global domination ... and our hero's soul! His lover:  Benedicta, Merlin Industries' fabulously wealthy heiress.  Raised in a Turkish seraglio, she spends her days falconing in the hills above Istanbul ...<br />Improbable?  You bet!  Half the fun of this book is the B-movie TechniColor melodrama that Durrell lays on with trowel in hand and tongue almost certainly in cheek.  What saves this from being a Grisham-style potboiler (fun in its own way) is the suspicion that Durrell doesn't believe in the plot any more than you do:  the whole show's just a vehicle for his ideas.  The shifting combination of doubles that each character pairs with in the story's weird geometry hints at the concept that everyone in the novel might just be an aspect of the same binary consciousness.  The narrative style too--which loops and reloops languidly from past to present, then swoops in a flash to a climax, like one of Benedicta's falcons--tips you off that the workings of memory and the subjective sense of time it brings to our fragile notion of reality are as much a concern to Durrell as any of the events that unfold in his exotic & highly artificial world.<br />By today's standards, Durrell's prose is more than a little purple;  that his women are basically walking dummies and his Orient the perverse, decadent hothouse of the British imperialist also marks \\"Tunc\\" as the relic of another era.  But if you liked the \\"Alexandria Quartet\\" and want to recapture some of the magic, this book should fill a few pleasant afternoons.<br />P.S.  \\"Tunc\\" forms a pair with \\"Nunquam\\"--both part of Durrell's \\"Revolt of Aphrodite\\" series--and each makes more sense if you read it in conjunction with the other.	2003-06-13
US	49517622	R3D3Q3TW9HB4Y	1881471209	83614381	Ms	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Shafted Strike Back	Remember that capsule they sent into space with examples of earth art to show any aliens out there what it means to be human? I wonder what they'd think if they found this dazzling book on board. Magee's put the English through a cyclotron of contemporary American voicings and come out the other side with a souped-up language that feels big enough and fast enough to just about cover Where We Are Now. The title \\"MS\\" moves in a lot of directions--manuscript, multiple sclerosis, the gender-savvy \\"miz\\"--and the poems touch on all of these and then some, often in the same stanza. I especially like the way Magee takes quirks of the language like homonyms and puns and uses them to explore a crazy quilt of subjects most of us would never think to loop together. Like in \\"Daughters of the American Revolution,\\" where he moves the word \\"wesson\\" from guns to cooking oil to black gold to blackness with the warp speed of a master turntablist. Or \\"Leave a Light On,\\" which rings the changes on the meanings of \\"shaft\\" (think Isaac Hayes meets Lucky Charms). Or \\"P\\"--one guess where that starts--where a schoolyard rhyme gets hit with some seriously funny theory.<br />There's a deeply American rat-a-tat to these poems that owes a lot to hip-hop's verbal glee (\\"this is a fact check/from the girl at the hat check with a hatchet\\"). But Magee draws on whole families of vernaculars, black and otherwise, and manages to graft them onto wider poetic traditions in a way that seems totally natural:<br />\\"Death, maybe, isn't gluttonous, as in Donne-<br />it's more like someone says to Him, \\"You<br />want the rest of this cheeseburger?\\" and He<br />  says, \\"I guess so.\\"<br />or:<br />\\"the belles of St. Mary knell<br />'The Real Slim Shady.'\\"<br />Magee's out for more than just nyuks; these poems tackle some heavy questions about mortality, history and the way gender, ethnicity and race consciousness graffiti our personal manuscripts.  \\"MS\\" trades fours with a good chunk of American culture and, by the time you close the covers, you half-believe it just might win. I hope this exciting collection finds the readers it deserves. Even on Uranus.me you close the covers, you half-believe it just might win. I hope this exciting collection finds the readers it deserves. Even on Uranus.	2003-05-31
US	49517622	R39373HUS99UVQ	0140179070	867938089	Visions of Cody	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Jack's Best	Buy this book!  Then forget it's a novel.  Forget looking for plot, action or continuity, just read each section like a prose poem.  Or better, a short run of notes in a brilliant sax solo.  Jack wrote this in 1951 (age 29), right before &quot;On the Road.&quot;  It's more like a sketchbook than a finished portrait, but on every page his amazing ear takes American English to entirely new places.  If you get bored, read it aloud &amp; listen to the surge, chop and swing that Keroauc gives to the language.  In &quot;Visions of Cody,&quot; he got his vision of America down in a SOUND:  staccato, breathless, brave &amp; precise.  One of America's greatest poets, and this is maybe his greatest poem.  Read, re-read, read again, enjoy.	2003-05-06
US	49517622	R11GALMZOWNI98	0415940923	472300104	Complete Poems (Fyfield Books)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Evil Rhymes	What I like best about this admittedly eccentric translation is the way Walter Martin renders the poems in rhyme.  Baudelaire's extreme content--his embrace of putrefaction, filth, sadism and ennui as fit stuff for poetry--owes much of its impact to the tight, disciplined meter he chose for his medium.  Most Baudelaire translations don't capture this classical edge in English, turning the poems into free verse or prose.  While Martin has to bend the exact meaning a little (often a lot) to get the English to fit, on the whole he does an impressive job of making the verse sound exact and controlled but not too sing-songy.  There's no ponderous introduction to bug you either, just a short & highly personal 'Afterthoughts' section with some intriguing insights.  This isn't the only translation you'll want to read, but it recovers a side of modernity's bad boy that's hard to find anywhere else.	2003-05-03
US	49517622	R20XD6MNLHXQUQ	0192880853	318772031	The Apprentice Mage, 1865-1914 (W.B. Yeats: A Life, Vol. 1)	Books	3	40	46	N	N	The Lighthouse and the Anteater	For the first 100 pages or so, this book had me completely.  Roy Foster writes with elegant brio and has a historian's eye for the wider events and contexts that shaped Yeats's early years.  Where previous biographers like Ellman take a sort of lighthouse approach to their subject, treating the passions and conflicts of Yeats's day as fuel for the poetry that was destined to outshine them, Foster is more like an anteater, eagerly snuffling up the everyday bits of information that give the flavor of Yeats's multifaceted life as he actually lived it, before his later fame and incessant revisions smoothed it into a pattern.<br />After a while though, the book tends to bury Yeats in a mass of trivia that include everything from the menu at one of his literary dinners to the prices he charged for his lectures.  This level of detail could be enlightening if Foster stopped for breath more often to tell us why these things are important.  Too often though he keeps his head firmly down with the ants, cataloging the day-to-day intrigues of a very complicated life without linking them to any kind of larger interpretation of Yeats's personality or development.  Instead, Foster spends his 500+ pages introducing new names at the rate of one or so per page, most of them disappearing by the end of the chapter never to be heard from again.  We get the intrigues of various Irish nationalist factions, potted bios of minor figures on the Dublin and London art scenes, humorous sketches of Yeats's fellow-travellers in his sundry mystical societies.  It was hard to see Yeats after a while with all these minor figures crowding the stage.<br />If Foster does have an interpretation of his own, as far as I can tell it's a revisionist one.  Where Ellman or Jeffaries saw Yeats's life as a drama of painful self-creation, Foster sends to see an ambitious man on the make, an aggressive networker who wasn't beyond bending the truth if it helped his own advancement.  Even his life-long passion for Maud Gonne, one of the key sources of his poetry, was, according to Foster, in part a self-conscious realization that a great poet needed a great passion to write about.  In trying to bring Yeats back down to earth, I think Foster overcompensates by making him more canny and worldly than the sexual naivete, table rapping, faery talk and aesthetic posturing of these years suggest.  Worst of all, Foster shows almost no interest in Yeats's poetry, the reason we're reading the biography in the first place.  I put down the book admiring Foster's energy and mastery of such a huge anthill of facts, but I couldn't shake the feeling that a lot less would have told us a lot more.aud Gonne, one of the key sources of his poetry, was, according to Foster, in part a self-conscious realization that a great poet needed a great passion to write about.  In trying to bring Yeats back down to earth, I think Foster overcompensates by making him more canny and worldly than the sexual naivete, table rapping, faery talk and aesthetic posturing of these years suggest.  Worst of all, Foster shows almost no interest in Yeats's poetry, the reason we're reading the biography in the first place.  I put down the book admiring Foster's energy and mastery of such a huge anthill of facts, but I couldn't shake the feeling that a lot less would have told us a lot more.	2003-05-02
US	49517622	RTG2FTY9E8PBH	0679433031	422243324	Romancing: The Life and Work of Henry Green	Books	3	13	14	N	N	...	Henry Green was due for a biography, any biography, that would bring his name and his work back before a wider public.  Treglown's mechanical and strangely flat portrait of this fascinating writer is better than nothing, but not by much.  He dutifully moves through each of Green's books tracing the surface resemblances between the plots and the outward circumstances of the author's life.  Apparently he didn't have a whole lot more to go on:  letters, drafts, diary entries, family remembrances and contemporary memoirs are all in short supply.  Green's ambivalent feelings towards his aristocratic family, his lifelong fascination with the manners and speech of classes other than his own, his attraction to younger women, his voluntary servitude in the office of the family business and his punishing drinking get almost no analysis from Treglown;  they're used more for anecdotes than for a fuller understanding of the novels.  Treglown lost the cooperation of Green's son and literary executor, Sebastian, early on.  That's not really his fault, but the sloppy writing surely is.  Words like \\"labyrinthinely,\\" \\"slapdashness\\" and \\"shockingness\\" along with awkward constructions such as \\"can't not have been relieved\\" abound.  Wherever he is, Green can't not have been appalled.<br />In a way though, the biography's thinness fits with Green's notorious evasions while he was alive:  few photos (many from the back), rare interviews, the mystifying 'Who's Who' entry Treglown opens with.  \\"A fuller biography awaits\\" as they say--a fact Treglown himself all but admits in his Introduction--but would Green have really wanted one?  The books are all back in print and his reputation as a 'writer's writer's writer' is secure.  Would this elusive, self-deprecating author have asked for anything more?	2003-04-18
US	49517622	RVBMKCNI5VRRS	B00007D03P	651322734	Yeats's Ghosts	Books	4	11	14	N	N	Cast a Cold Eye	Look, Brenda Maddox is a journalist not a scholar.  She has little to say about the poems and her sources are nothing new.  But she writes a lively prose with a deft eye for the human angle in describing the parade of remarkable women who passed through Yeats's later life.  I don't think she's out to replace the more detailed biographies other reviewers mention so much as add color and detail to the standard portrait of the 'smiling public man.'<br />The book's centerpiece is the early years of Yeats's marriage to his wife George, a cultivated woman twenty-seven years his junior who turned what looked to be a marriage of convenience into a source of great poetic inspiration.  George began channeling spirits on their honeymoon which, over the next two years, revealed to Yeats an entire philosophy of history and the soul's fate after death while also dictating how an older, indifferent lover ought to treat a young new wife.  Maddox leaves the question of the Script's authenticity open, pointing out on the one hand how well it suited George's purposes and on the other how sincerely she shared Yeats's occult beliefs.  Halfway through the book though, after a short, out of place chapter on Yeats's mother, she leaves George behind to concentrate on the eccentricities of Yeats's later years.  Yeats had a capacity for staying 'forever young' that led to some odd connections;  he involved himself, especially after the Steinach operation, with a cast of dubious individuals who took him away from the unwanted responsibilities of home and family.<br />I don't think Maddox is trying to pull Yeats off a pedestal--she clearly believes the poems he wrote in these years are great.  She's also fair-minded in dealing with Yeats's Fascist sympathies, his late passion for eugenics and the bad rap he's gotten from feminists.  But showing how much care and indulgence his work required from others, especially the women he chose to attend to his needs, reminds you that greatness is often a collaborative effort.  Giving credit where credit is due for Yeats's late achievement, especially in the case of his long-suffering wife George, takes nothing away from his achievement. Just the opposite; I admired the poetry all the more knowing the personal hopes and (sometimes) blindnesses it grew out of.  A fun, instructive read.n a collaborative effort.  Giving credit where credit is due for Yeats's late achievement, especially in the case of his long-suffering wife George, takes nothing away from his achievement. Just the opposite; I admired the poetry all the more knowing the personal hopes and (sometimes) blindnesses it grew out of.  A fun, instructive read.	2003-04-15
US	49517622	R2KLVK6TIQSEQO	0393008592	735823905	Yeats: The Man and the Masks	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Biograph Master	Ellmann was only 30 when he published this in 1948, less than 10 years after Yeats's death;  he was the first biographer to see Yeats's papers in their chaotic entirety.  What an astounding job!  You'd think this would read like a warm-up for his later magisterial biographies of Joyce and Wilde, but \\"The Man and the Masks\\" holds its own against those works, giving a sensitive, economical portrait of an unusually fractured poet.<br />Ellmann stresses Yeats's life-long effort to forge his thoughts into a unified system in the teeth of inbred skepticism, shyness and vacillation.  He draws a discreet curtain over the sexual parts of Yeats's life but compensates with a keen understanding of the courage it took for this diffident, ill-read & dreamy man to make himself by fits and starts into a modern poet.  My favorite parts of the book were the sections where Ellmann compares earlier drafts of the poems to the printed versions, showing just how hard-won Yeats's genius was.  He tempers a critical eye towards Yeats's excesses--the wild mysticism, the Fascist sympathies, the arrogant public demeanor--with an understanding of Yeats's deep need for masks.  According to Ellmann, Yeats's theories and systems weren't dogmas so much as postures he assumed to fulfill his own desire for a certainty of belief he never quite attained.  Ellmann shows how that drive shaped the poems and ultimately rescued them from the deadness certitude would have brought.  A classic study and an excellent starting-point for further reading on Yeats's life and work.	2003-04-11
US	49517622	R2SU619O1CGX7M	1853270296	106140497	The Celtic Twilight: Myth, Fantasy and Folklore	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Dream Time	This is an essential read for any Yeats fan.  It shows his will to believe at its most naked, before the gyres and slouching Sphinxes forged it into System.  You can see Yeats mapping the wistful melancholy of his early poems onto the village folklore around his family home in Sligo--already in 1893, he's looking for a way to weld his personal interests in aestheticism and the occult to a wider national cause.  You'll also find the seeds of the older proto-Fascist Yeats in his worship of lineage, parochial peasant wisdom and anti-modernism (the faery folk, along with the Great Anglo-Irish houses, have sadly for Yeats all but disappeared).  The dreamy villagers he meets with turn back the clock against \\"that decadence we call progress\\" in a way that the poet at 28 already finds powerfully attractive.<br />Most of Yeats's early poems can be linked to a vignette from \\"The Celtic Twilight,\\"  while recurring motifs from his later writings--beauty, passionate old age, ghosts--take on a deeper resonance after reading these lighter pieces.  Yeats walks a fine line between believing in the faeries that so many of the peasants he talks to can see, and regarding them simply as \\"dramatizations of our moods,\\" an example of the tragic Celtic taste for unreachable beauty that he wanted to capture in his poems.  Yeats walked that line in one form or another his whole life, and I understood the poems much better after reading these sketches--for that alone, this book's worth a read.	2003-04-05
US	49517622	R3MTP3F0UEZMC8	0226660605	660139459	Wittgenstein's Ladder: Poetic Language and the Strangeness of the Ordinary	Books	4	23	23	N	N	An Easy Climb	This is an engaging, down-to-earth book about the connections between Wittgenstein's aphoristic philosophy and some of the 20th-century writers who've followed his lead up the 'ladder of the ordinary.'  Perloff's at her best with the close readings of difficult writers like Stein, Beckett and Creeley, who magically flower into comprehensibility under her sharp attention and good sense.<br />The authors she chooses to illustrate Wittgenstein's influence seemed a little arbitrary to me though.  She admits that Beckett and Stein didn't read Wittgenstein, and that Wittgenstein would probably have disliked their art.  So why put them 'under his sign'?  It makes more sense to me to see Wittgenstein as part of a wider generation who felt dissatisfied with the pre-war language they'd inherited.  With later poets like Silliman and Waldrop, who explicitly cite Wittgenstein's writings as an inspiration, I think Perloff misses what separates them from Wittgenstein:  he had no earlier model to cite.  Wittgenstein's faith in ordinary language led to a manner of writing and thinking that was largely self-sufficient--an interested reader can dive right in and think through the problems for herself.  His more allusive postmodern heirs rely to a large extent on your prior knowledge of texts like Wittgenstein's for their effects.  Where Wittgenstein himself struggled to keep his religious and hierarchical values in check through the discipline of ordinary language--concepts like beauty, God and the self seemed to have some meaning for him, you just couldn't talk about those meanings with language--later writers' easy acceptance of notions like a language game, the 'constructed self' and the fundamental indeterminacy of language seems to drain some of the drama from their writing.  You don't feel the same struggle (or modesty) that you sense in Wittgenstein's open, user-friendly illustrations.  Describing one of his poems, Ron Silliman writes:  &quot;Every sentence is supposed to remind the reader of his or her inability to respond.&quot;  I can't imagine Wittgenstein saying something like that.<br />Still, the book is an interesting take on Wittgenstein and the poetic he unwittingly inspired.  Well worth reading.ind the reader of his or her inability to respond.&quot;  I can't imagine Wittgenstein saying something like that.<br />Still, the book is an interesting take on Wittgenstein and the poetic he unwittingly inspired.  Well worth reading.	2003-03-21
US	49517622	RPVKXWUME7UV6	014044601X	20212385	De Nerval: Selected Writings (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	39	43	N	N	The Ruined Tower	Nerval was the Mother of All Bohemians, a romantic eccentric who set the stage for latter-day zanies from Arthur Rimbaud to John Wieners.  His most famous stunt was parading through Paris with a lobster, explaining to his friends:  &quot;He does not bark, and he knows the secrets of the deep.&quot;  With the beautiful, dense, enigmatic poems in 'The Chimeras' he virtually invented literary Modernism, while 'Aurelia' is one of the most touching accounts of schizophrenia ever written (the book is worth it for these two pieces alone, along with the proto-Proustian 'Sylvie').  Nerval's tragic disintegration, ending in suicide in 1855, seems to mark the point where Romanticism turned from fantasy and Nature to madness and derangement, a pattern that still plays out in our culture in a hundred different ways.  Sieburth's a little intrusive with the prefaces and footnotes--he seems anxious you might not 'get' Nerval without his help.  The sections are also arranged thematically instead of chronologically, which makes it hard to trace his development as a writer.  But the notes include plenty of useful biographical information, and for the money it's easily the best selection of Nerval's writings in English.  A great intro to a fascinating writer.	2003-03-21
US	49517622	R294TX42WL4WQR	1557133654	311110957	Notes on the Cinematographer (Green Integer)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Writing With Images	&quot;Notes on the Cinematographer&quot; is a tidy, Zen-like summation of the special aesthetic Bresson brought to film.  'Cinema' to him was simply filmed theater.  He wanted movies to do something more, to create a new language of images that could express a character's inner states and moods (I think this goal, more than anything, explains why he's so often labeled a 'spiritual' director).  Bresson wanted faces, not actors;  events, not scenes;  &quot;BEING instead of SEEMING.&quot;  To this end he insisted on amateurs over trained actors, noises over music, slowness and close-ups over speed and pans.  Cinematography as Bresson explains it here is a unique form of writing.  His efforts to make an essentially mechanical &amp; visual medium parallel the inwardness of the written word has to be one of the strangest and most fascinating projects in the history of film.  Not surprisingly, he writes beautifully, and these aphoristic koans, surrounded by all that empty white space, are as haunting as anything he captured on film.  A tiny masterpiece.	2003-03-07
US	49517622	R21IQE0BL79WDI	0880641894	24840773	Allen Ginsberg in America: With a New Introduction by the Author	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Holy Soul Jelly Roll	This is a fun, easy read that sketches Ginsberg and attendant loonies at the height of his reign as May King of the '60s Underground.  Essentially an expanded New Yorker portrait, it tracks the poet's dizzying movements from the Jan. '67 San Francisco Be-In to its New York sequel that Easter.  Kramer lays on the color a little thick in places--she's clearly writing for amused and knowing squares--but she's very much alive to the idealism of Ginsberg's slaphappy search for satori in the midst of hectic times.  Kind of an 'Electric Kool-Aid Acid Test' Lite, &quot;A.G. in America&quot; is a breezy contribution to the Sixties myth.	2003-01-13
US	49517622	R1YPCZ3O3SXUPA	0226014355	347568239	The Solitary Singer: A Critical Biography of Walt Whitman	Books	4	10	10	N	N	The Good Grey Poet	This is a servicable biography of Whitman that gives a solid and straightforward, though relatively unimaginative, overview of his life and writing.  First published in 1955, it does a frustrating dance around the subject of Whitman's sexuality.  But Jerome Loving's bio from the 1990s, it turns out, doesn't manage to unearth any more concrete evidence about this side of Whitman's life than Allen did nearly half a century ago.  Allen's a little dull and unwilling to risk speculation where the record's blank, but writing before the Whitman 'boom' he's able to concentrate on the main outlines of his subject instead of the scholarly bones more recent biographers tend to pick.  He sketches in Whitman's family and friends without bogging you down with exhaustive detail, and Whitman stays front-and-center through the tumultuous political crises that could easily swallow a lesser work.  A good place to start if you've read the poems and want to know more about the curious man who wrote them.	2003-01-11
US	49517622	R1UT7YOX8JLSUH	0691096171	302462926	Democracy, Culture and the Voice of Poetry: (The University Center for Human Values Series)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	The Heat of Middle Water	Sober, judicious, temperate, suave, Pinsky considers poetry's place in our high-tech democracy with all the passion of a required civics course.  Nary an insight will trouble anyone's sleep in NPR, MacNeill/Lehrer America, and that's a shame, because poetry at its best is a whole lot hotter than that.  Pinsky's a deft explainer and he keeps his good-natured balance in the midst of a very fragmented field.  But I think those qualities mitigate against the kind of fire we need to shake poetry loose from the warm academic middle, whose virtues and limitations Pinksy embodies in every line of his prose.	2002-12-30
US	49517622	RBWWRJ8KL24OB	0156364808	414179255	The Great Code: The Bible and Literature	Books	5	91	97	N	N	In Frye We Trust	\\"The Great Code\\" reflects a lifetime's thinking about the patterns and meanings of the Bible, and you'd be hard-pressed to find a page that doesn't contain some nugget of insight--my copy's covered in Papermate blue! Frye's central point is that the Bible's best read as a complex ecology of types: the accounts of Jesus in the Gospels, for instance, have less to do with his actual deeds and words, however much our modern idea of history would like them to, than squaring his life with Old Testament 'anticipations.' In Frye's view, Jesus scarcely sneezes without invoking a line from the Old Testament, a fact that points to the essentally literary organization of the Bible. That's not to say the Bible's \\"merely\\" literature--on the contrary, Frye wants to show how it expands our sense of what literature and myth really mean. Meanwhile, he injects on the sly an attractive theology of his own. Literature like the Bible provides the types for us--the chain of typological anticipations doesn't culminate in Israel or Jesus or Revelation, but continues into our own lives, waking us up to our radical freedom.<br />My major disappointment with the book is that it grandly ignores Jacques Derrida and the deconstructionist critique of Frye's assumptions about the relationship between language and life, Word and presence. He mentions Derrida in the intro (the book appeared in 1981) and hints at a counterargument, but I would have liked to see him follow through, since their brand of criticism aims squarely at Frye's type of reading. Those with a more historical interest in the Bible will also balk at Frye's acceptance of the book as a unity, endorsing the misreading that turned the rich and varied texts of the Hebrew Torah into a vast typological waiting room for the Christian Messiah.<br />Still, this is a powerful interpretation that anyone with an interest in myth and religion should greatly enjoy.	2002-12-30
US	49517622	R1FE0OVXNHJPOC	014058918X	330032720	Overtime: Selected Poems (Penguin Poets)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	The Brainy Beat	I didn't know much about Whalen's poetry until he died this year, but the terrific memorial reading for him here in San Francisco drove me to \\"Overtime\\" and man, what a find. The Beats were more learned than the 'first thought, best thought' aesthetic suggests, and Whalen's poems balance religion, philosophy and cranky Zen insight with a casual, conversational Americanese in a way few of his more famous contemporaries could touch. His poems draw from a deep past that embraces everything from ancient Chinese verse to classical music, but insist that it walk down the street in T-shirt and jeans. Whalen spent the last three decades of his life at the San Francisco Zen Center--his particular brand of Buddhism, so generous to human failings (starting always, comically, with his own) and never, ever doctrinaire, has to be one of the most attractive spins on Eastern religion I've read. Whalen was in it and of it, never above it. He gives the moment plenty of wiggle room in his writing, so that cats, friends and silly thoughts can all stray into the poems without being shoo'd out for art. Whatever Beat meant, Whalen shows it in about its best light. Poetry's a little thinner and more straight-laced with him gone.	2002-12-12
US	49517622	R1FIGIJ0VJOT1G	1560252758	985681969	The Gangs of New York: An Informal History of the Underworld	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Plug Ugly America	America was never so violent as it was in the decades that flanked the Civil War, and Asbury sketches the immigrants, gangsters, gamblers and river pirates that ruled the slums of Five Points with a deft, half-loving hand.  I was especially surprised to learn how politics fueled the gangs' long reign,  each party keeping its own thug army to riot and break ballot boxes on command.  Today's problems with guns, race prejudice and political apathy look like an ice cream social next to Asbury's New York, which ran on the kind of offical gangsterism you associate most often with the Third World.  No wonder Scorsese picked this up--it takes \\"Goodfellas\\" to the tenth power.  At the same time, Asbury hints at the rigid codes of honor that governed gang life, another Scorese trademark.  The book evokes a forgotten America where the line between criminal and respectable was less rigid.  I can't say I'd want to live there, but while it was more lawless, Asbury also leaves you wondering if it was maybe, just maybe, a little more free.  At the very least, it puts some of our own 21st-century angst into perspective.  A fun, easy read.	2002-12-10
US	49517622	R1NTLCBJWE33BV	0385495331	740144116	The Last Avant-Garde: The Making of the New York School of Poets	Books	3	4	8	N	N	The Four M(o)usketeers	Despite the provocative title, there's nothing especially revealing in this workmanlike overview of the New York School.  If you know even a little already about Ashbery, O'Hara &amp; Co.--great poets, all--you'll find Lehman has little new to say.  If you don't, his assortment of anecdotes and biographical nuggets isn't much help in capturing the New York that electrified so many major artists in the '50s and '60s.  You have to sit still for Lehman's cursory reading of the poems (a whole chapter to tell us Kenneth Koch is funny?) to get to the stories and provocative quotes that justify a book like this, more an appreciation than a study.  Lehman's under the impression that the New York School poets haven't gotten their due, and he works hard to make them safe and simple for everyday readers like you and me.  But his book reminded me how personal a connection each one makes in their poems, so that Lehman comes off as a genial host interrupting your private conversation with the poet to make sure you're enjoying the party.  Do four friends make an avant garde?  That Lehman thinks so testifies to how rare a thing literary friendships are, and how widely the circles can ripple when talent gets together, in New York or anywhere else.	2002-12-09
US	49517622	R2MSNJLU4XMYQS	0571201571	437548935	Cassavetes on Cassavetes	Books	5	7	9	N	N	My Way	Ray Carney's done a great service to film fans by bringing Cassavetes' scattered talks and interviews together into a coherent statement on art.  Carney shows how Cassavetes' whole process of filmmaking was tied to his outlook on life.  Combative, spontaneous and deliberately amateur, he aimed for situations where writer, actor and viewer are all left without direction, forced to respond to the story as individuals rather than reach for pre-approved 'social codes'.  He savagely edited his films to defy audience expectations, usually rejecting versions that the studios, his collaborators and even his wife liked best.  Some of Cassavetes' statements made me wonder if he did this to edit some part of himself--the Greek immigrant son made good, with the blonde wife and kids and Hollywood home.  In some ways he was an insider desperate to stay on the outside.  Conflict was fun for him, he thought America needed more of it, and the messy collaborative 'families' he built around each film were his alternative to the button-down corporate society he fought against all his life.<br />As Carney presents him, Cassavetes wasn't out for the money, the glory, the ego or ultimately maybe even the art.  He wanted fun, he wanted friends and he wanted people to really live as individuals.  Are there folks like this around anymore?  We need them more than ever.	2002-11-06
US	49517622	R3Q8BB4P7TJ7X1	0140434844	163774631	Pierre: or, The Ambiguities (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	36	42	N	N	American Heartbreak	Pierre has all the markings of an awful book--flat characters, overblown writing, shameless melodrama. So why is it such a masterpiece? Melville seems to have put all of himself into this work--his despair, his religious doubts, his understanding of human psychology--with an intensity that makes the usual standards of plot, style and character obsolete. The analysis of Pierre's mother as she turns on her husband/son and Melville's agonizing descriptions of the writing process were two of the book's highlights for me. The Beats loved Pierre--maybe they saw a model for their own art, where elegance takes a back seat to energy. The novel was a critical disaster at the time, but look where it ranks on amazon 150 years later. I hope Melville's somewhere watching.	2002-10-10
US	49517622	R35OX1W2IK2Y6Q	0374527830	422981932	Your Name Here: Poems	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Redeemed Area	Ashbery's writing with the crackle of someone just starting out. It's like now that he knows he's in the canon (thanks, Bloom), he can really go looby and make English swing. The autumn leaves fall a little lighter in these poems; reverie (always present) takes a back seat to inspired goofiness. I've admired other Ashbery books--this one I loved. It's made my own elite canon of bathroom reading and not a poem's let me down. I hope I grow old just like this.	2002-10-09
US	49517622	R39QFBTP0RLITT	1574231294	679151217	No Eyes: Lester Young	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Big Eyes	I kind of trashed Meltzer's &quot;Reading Jazz,&quot; so let me make it up here with a big thumbs up for a really fun collection.  The poems in No Eyes are accessible and lyrical with a great feel for the music--they spread down the page like tasty sax tootles in a classic Young solo.  I especially like how Meltzer balances the beauty of Lester's playing against the tragedy of his life.  Snippets of song lyrics, conversation and Young's private slang weave through the poems to give a clever snapshot of the man behind the sax. And Meltzer's love for the music is clear from the downbeat.  Big eyes for this one.	2002-09-25
US	49517622	R2UE1VRMQDIZ21	1562790382	993548408	Reading Jazz	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Ooo Bop Sh'Bad	Some fine writings on jazz here, but Meltzer's intro to my mind seriously hurts the collection. Meltzer's an old-school beatnik whose often delightful poetry led me to expect a real celebration of the music's liberating promise. Instead he writes like a doctrinaire poststructuralist, blowing the whistle on \\"power\\" and the colonial control endemic to jazz writing. To hear Meltzer tell it, the story of jazz is a Manichean battle between the (good) blacks who perform it and (bad) whites who write about it, coralling its utopic possibilites into the racist domains of record collecting, criticism and canonization. He goes so far as to call jazz a white construction: a discussion primarily by, for and about middle-class whites anxious to diffuse the music's subversive power.<br />Apparently Meltzer, white himself, is off the hook for being hipped to jazz so young: his radio knob wasn't a tool of white omniscence, but channel to a cool postmodern squelch. Still, the self-consciousness he brings to white writings on jazz in the intro seems to discount the pieces that follow. Why write about jazz at all if writing by its nature betrays the magic of its performance? I think Meltzer wants us to see the kind of racism that disguises itself as praise. Fair enough. But his detector's set so high that I had trouble seeing how ANY jazz appreciation, even his own, can avoid being racist. My advice--put down the book, enjoy the music and don't worry so much about the color. Jazz has a strange way of defying categories, even the Chinese finger-pulls Meltzer's devised for it here.	2002-09-21
US	49517622	ROMC16FKBB583	0802131867	727771871	The Subterraneans	Books	3	3	6	N	N	Beat Surrender	This isn't Jack's best.  In &quot;On the Road&quot; Dean Moriarty plays Huck to Sal's Tom Sawyer:  a good kid at heart but prone to trouble with his wild friend.  Here Leo Percepied's the bad boy, getting drunk, embarassing friends and hurting lovers with no one to blame but himself.  The joy and big-hearted optimism of &quot;On the Road&quot; give way to boozy self-recrimination as the author berates himself for messing things up with Mardou.<br />The subterraneans of the title are a cool, intellectual, heroin-addled set that Leo has little time for;  they're mostly a backdrop for his relationship with Mardou.  Kerouac examines their love, from Leo's point of view anyway, in microscopic detail, but some of his confessions were startling to me--that he'd never get serious with a black woman, for instance, because it would ruin his fantasy of living down South like Faulkner.  I'm probably just getting old, but where Sal Paradise seemed urgent and searching, Leo struck me as selfish and immature, aware that he needs to grow up but not really wanting to.  Where Sal wanted kicks, Leo wants love.  That's a trickier (more adult?) proposition and I'm not sure Kerouac rose to the challenge, in this novel or in life.<br />Don't get me wrong--I'm a big Kerouac fan.  &quot;On the Road&quot; and &quot;Mexico City Blues&quot; just hit the ball harder for me.  If you get a chance, see the movie version of &quot;The Subterraneans&quot; with George Pepard as Leo, Mardou as white (?!) and Roddy McDowell as a bongo-beating beatnik.  Hollywood at its finest!	2002-08-08
US	49517622	RZFNSK8X1O8SZ	0156003295	465089978	The Black Book	Books	5	116	122	N	N	But I Who Write	Why bother reading stories?  In part to escape ourselves, maybe in hopes of discovering ourselves.  \\"The Black Book\\" is an intricate meditation on the act of reading that explores both sides of our urge for stories in obsessive detail.<br />The surface plot involves Galip's search for his missing wife and her half-brother Jelal, a famous Turkish columnist.  But the deeper meaning of the story concerns the fact that every story has deeper meanings.  As Galip's hunt progresses, the chaos of modern Istanbul promises to organize itself into the key to unlocking a larger mystery whose solution would make every detail of life carry meaning, turning the world itself into literature.  As far as I can make out, for Pamuk this literary apocalypse would be equivalent to the Messiah's return and to each of us being reborn at last as ourselves, instead of living as hopeless imitations of our heroes from novels and movies.<br />Just as Galip discovers that Jelal, his own hero, cribbed his columns from older tales, Pamuk's readers gradually realize that Galip's story is a serpentine riff on the Islamic classics, as his search for Jelal and Ruya comes to parallel the Sufi quest for union with God.  The Seeker becomes the Sought, Galip becomes Jelal, the reader becomes the author.  The burden of postmodernity, Pamuk seems to say, is to realize that we are author, Messiah and reader rolled up in one, with the world as our text to fashion meanings for.<br />My one criticism is that Pamuk's tale feels a little too familiar, built around themes like the flux of identity, the absence of fixed meanings, the illusion of originality and the self-referential nature of literature that have already been ridden pretty hard by writers from Borges to Eco.  But I like the way Pamuk annexes these postmodern concerns to the question of Turkish identity.  What does it mean to be \\"ourselves\\" in a country where Westernization is a form of imitation? (and where the Western original turns out to have pillaged ideas from the East)  \\"The Black Book\\" reminded me why stories matter, how literature shapes us and how amazing it is to have such great art available so easily at places like amazon.e pillaged ideas from the East)  \\"The Black Book\\" reminded me why stories matter, how literature shapes us and how amazing it is to have such great art available so easily at places like amazon.	2002-07-03
US	49517622	R3DKN5L9GM3LUZ	083560568X	992743300	The Gnostic Jung and the Seven Sermons to the Dead (Quest Books)	Books	5	43	45	N	N	Drunk With Light	Gnosticism was a late antique worldview contemporary with early Christianity that claimed the human soul was a stranded fragment of the divine and uncreated Light from which all binaries, including God and the Devil, emanate.  Our purpose in life is to transcend the base world of matter--the creation of an evil God--and find our way back to the Pleroma or source of all being.<br />In 1916 Jung wrote a short set of &quot;sermons&quot; under the name of the ancient Gnostic Basilides.  He had them privately printed and later cited them as the inspiration for his subsequent psychological theories.  This book not only makes a vivid case for Jung's thought as &quot;a psychological restatement of Gnosticism,&quot; but also defines the major Gnostic doctrines with clarity and sympathy.  Hoeller is a Gnostic himself and wants to recover this &quot;heresy&quot; from the accusations that drove it underground when Rome colonized Christianity.  He takes on many critiques of the Gnostics, which run the gamut from early Church Fathers to modern thinkers like Martin Buber, and shows how Jungian psychology gives Gnosticism a new lease on life by transforming its beliefs into powerful symbols of the human psyche.  That he's not afraid to step down from the lectern and argue as a believer gives the study an urgency you rarely find in more academic accounts of the Gnostics (see, for example, James M. Robinson's excellent introduction to the one-volume Nag Hammadi Library).<br />I finished the book with two minds about Gnosticism, which seems about right for a worldview so taken with binaries!  On the one  hand, the Gnostics insist on our essential divinity.  Each individual carries a piece of the light within and is free to develop it without the constraints of dogmas or moral laws.  With 9/11 so fresh on the brain, that must sound appealing to anyone reading this right now.  On the other hand, the view of creation as evil, or at least inferior to the higher realities of the spirit, troubles me.  I agree with Hoeller that it's probably unfair to brand the Gnostics as &quot;World Haters.&quot;  But to revive this ancient sect, even in Jung's symbolic form, I think you have to come to grips with its disdain for the material world of bodies and atoms and things that modern science makes more attractive to us all the time.  With so much power in our merely human hands, the point shouldn't be to escape physical reality, but redeem it.  Why save your own soul if you lose the whole world?  That sounds pretentious even as I write it!  But I'm clearer on where I stand after reading this lucid book and I think you will be, too.roubles me.  I agree with Hoeller that it's probably unfair to brand the Gnostics as &quot;World Haters.&quot;  But to revive this ancient sect, even in Jung's symbolic form, I think you have to come to grips with its disdain for the material world of bodies and atoms and things that modern science makes more attractive to us all the time.  With so much power in our merely human hands, the point shouldn't be to escape physical reality, but redeem it.  Why save your own soul if you lose the whole world?  That sounds pretentious even as I write it!  But I'm clearer on where I stand after reading this lucid book and I think you will be, too.	2002-01-04
US	49517622	R2C1UWQN517DV9	0691036772	279242060	Economy of the Unlost	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Sweet Investment	I can't say enough good things about these lectures, which mesh Celan, Simonides and Karl Marx with a grace that makes their union seem inevitable. The way Carson folds together money, language and memory reminds me of Ezra Pound without the shouting.  Her insights have a math-like clarity (&quot;Eureka! I've got it!&quot;) that brings two extreme ends of our history under the same light.  You'll never mistake negation and loss for modern inventions after reading this book.  The coins have changed since Simonides's time but the economy's remarkably the same.  The funny thing is, after Carson's dazzling treatment, lament never looked so good.	2002-01-04
US	49517622	R1EVJ66L1L4CIR	1841950890	372390460	The Longest Cocktail Party: An Insider's Diary of The Beatles, Their Million-Dollar 'Apple' Empire and Its Wild Rise and Fall	Books	5	2	3	N	N	The Love You Make	Richard DiLello, House Hippie at Apple from '68 to '70, captures all the love, sweat and tears of the company's arc from hippie dream to account's nightmare.  His anecdotal style gives a great sense of what it felt like to be at ground zero of the Beatles' story as it was being made:  the bed-ins, the basement recordings, the rumors and media lynchings.  For all the accusations of sloth and easy vibes, DiLello chronicles a lot of hard work and honest effort that went into Apple at the grunt level (how would YOU arrange to mail a hundred acorns for peace at John's demand?)  I got a great sense of the idealism and privilege that drove the this most '60s of enterprises. I closed the book wishing it had worked.	2001-12-29
US	49517622	RLFW6H0GRPR6F	060980474X	818805296	TechGnosis: Myth, Magic, and Mysticism in the Age of Information	Books	3	15	19	N	N	No There There	Erik Davis's often creative connections between magic and technology suffer from his style--a hip, let me explain it to you in terms you can understand narrative that casts every age as a pale anticipation of our own.  The bloom is off the information age, and while the Internet is here to stay, Davis's way of talking about it isn't.  I'd give this book an 'A' for enthusiasm from a talented undergrad.  But as a serious analysis of the bridge between myth and machines, the story collapses under its own pretense of being 'now'.  Search out the sources he footnotes and take the rest as an artefact of the dot-com boom.	2001-12-29
US	49517622	R2JTTANZMNR1XT	0811206157	198199409	The Collected Poems of George Oppen	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Hymns To Is	Oppen was a quiet genius whose spare, precise language never obscures his love for the world he writes about.  In his poems silence is a form of eloquence and detached observation a type of love.  There's something hard and fair and righteous in this verse--though Oppen rarely sermonizes, he's one of the few truly moral poets I know.  His life work is a bargain at this price; do yourself a favor and grab it.	2001-12-19
US	49517622	RAXT2VHOPAN6B	0375703861	363806782	White Teeth: A Novel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Don't Worry--It Won't Bite	I went into this book with phasers set on kill--the author was too young and the hype too intense.  But Smith disarmed me in 50 pages flat.  Beneath the humor and verbal swagger the other reviewers mention there's a very liberal, hopeful message about race--what we all really want is the freedom to be our messy selves.  Race and religion, genetics and history give simple answers to the old &quot;who am I?&quot; question that just don't hold up in our blessedly mongrel world.  Yeah, the story wobbles a bit at the end, but so what?  Smith's built up so much good will by then that you feel like a heel even noticing.  I'll bite into her next book if it's only half as good.	2001-12-19
US	49517622	RMK5P24ML3UA	0520212312	851380998	The Collected Poems of Charles Olson: Excluding the Maximus Poems	Books	4	36	36	N	N	Bigmans' Big Book	This is one of the most unusual poetry books I've read.  The poems Olson published in his lifetime were a fraction of what he wrote.  In this volume, editor George Butterick interleafs nearly all the surviving typescripts with the poems from Olson's previously published collections, creating a giant single edition that runs to over 600 pages.  On the plus side, you get the chance to discover a new Olson through reading his poems, most published here for the first time, in the order he wrote them.  The downside is that the 'historical' Olson, who along with Allen Ginsberg electrified American outsider poetry in the '50s and '60s, tends to get choked off in all the false starts, toss-offs and unfinished fragments that few of his contemporaries ever saw.  Since the notes at the end don't give the page numbers of the poems they refer to, it's a hassle to sort out which poems appeared in which collections, if any.  Butterick's thirty-year care and feeding of Olson's work has to be one of the greatest editorial romances of all time, and his openness in letting you decide which poems are good or not is democratic.  But it also demands a lot of unnecessary work (why not a separate section of unpublished poems?) that might leave you wondering if Olson's worth the effort.  Robert Creeley's shorter &quot;Selected Poems&quot; are a better bet if you want a quicker overview, and Butterick's edition of the Maximus poems probably catches Olson at his best.  But his risk in presenting Olson like this is true to the spirit of the poetry.  An outsized book for an outsized man.	2001-12-12
US	49517622	R3PRO5Y4XZ3AZL	0300022913	642775339	The Treasures of Darkness: A History of Mesopotamian Religion	Books	4	105	105	N	N	Splendor in the Dark	Jacobsen is a giant in his field, but as an introduction to the subject &quot;Treasures of Darkness&quot; can be heavy going.  Most helpful to me was the way that he tackles the myths chronologically, starting the book with the Dumuzi cults recored in the earliest Sumerian sources and ending with the stories of Marduk and Gilgamesh from later records.  In between he covers topics from the rise of kingship to the growth of personal religion in a way that makes the beliefs come alive as an evolving response to the world rather than an inert collection of tablets.<br />Jacobsen has a tendency to present speculation as fact--you wouldn't guess from reading this alone that many of his points are disputed--and the translations are a little stilted, at least to my ears.  But his book goes a long way to turning the fragmentary evidence into a coherent philosophy of nature, humanity and the gods.  Mesopotamian religion is often described as pessimistic;  Jacobsen restores some of the awe, love and splendor that might have made it a convincing world view for thousands of people we'll never otherwise know.	2001-12-12
US	49517622	R29FX70671GKXZ	014012523X	709379609	Ancient Iraq: Third Edition (Penguin History)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Iraq and Roll	Mesopotamia is an ancient civilization with a relatively \\"new\\" history, uncovered almost from scratch in the huge excavations of the last century. Roux takes you through about four thousand years in four hundred pages with surprising breadth and verve. The author loves his subject and his enthusiasm is contagious.  Even where I got lost in the long names of foreign kings and distant battles, the crisp writing kept me turning pages. A great resource on a fascinating subject.	2001-12-12
US	49517622	R22TA2PKS51QVP	0375701028	138437884	Nightmare Town: Stories	Books	3	6	8	N	N	The 'Burbs of Noir	I bought this book for its snappy cover and intro on Hammett's fascinating life.  But the stories themselves are mostly a let-down.  Hammett really hit his stride with the novels, and it's hard to tell from these early magazine pieces how good a writer he'd become.  Still, the violence, corruption and sexy seediness that make his other work so much fun are here in embryo.  If you're already a Hammett fan, reading these stories is like watching an all-star's warm up swings before he nails a home run.  If not, let &quot;The Maltese Falcon&quot; or &quot;Red Harvest&quot; knock your socks off before you make the trip to Nightmare Town.	2001-12-12
US	49517622	R3E2GB4VTXA24V	0374504938	459059688	The White Goddess: A Historical Grammar of Poetic Myth, Amended and Enlarged Edition	Books	5	16	16	N	N	The Crossword Goddess	You probably know the &quot;White Goddess&quot; thesis already--that patriarchal invaders suppressed the mother-goddess religions of the Aegean and Ancient Near East, traces of which managed to survive in Europe, especially in the minstrel lore of Ireland and Wales.  The real fun of the book for me though was in the getting there--a waterslide ride of vast learning, crossword logic and speculative buccaneering that takes you from A to some weird and half-forgotten form of Z in three chapters flat.<br />The book reads more like a postmodern novel than scholarship.  The encyclopaedic frames of reference, baroque plotting and seemingly random coincidences that suddenly wink into information may remind you more than a little of Eco or Pynchon.  This is the grandmammy of all conspiracy theories, revealing as much about our own peculiar forms of faith as Bronze Age Europe's.  You'll enjoy Graves's dazzling hunt for the Goddess whether you find her or not.	2001-11-12
US	49517622	R38JUAZTE6VCSV	1889097012	287904426	Little Men (Lingo Books)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Louisa May Alcott He's Not!	Imagine Armistead Maupin tied up in latex and injected with sodium pentathol and you're halfway to the spirit of &quot;Little Men.&quot;  Kevin Killian is one of San Francisco's best experimental writers, and in these 11 short shorts he slips a magnet under nearly every moral compass with a chatty, diamond-sharp prose that reminded me somehow of Raymond Chandler--pulpy on the surface but with murderous depths below.  &quot;Chain of Fools&quot; is one of the most bizarre and oddly moving accounts of growing up Catholic you'll ever read, while &quot;Santa&quot; and &quot;Who Is Kevin Killian?&quot; cover some dark psychological territory with the unblinking art of a Baudelaire (but a Baudelaire with cable and a thirst for Tab).  If you like Kathy Acker or Dennis Cooper--or hey, even Louisa May Alcott--then Killian's your man.  This book deserves to be more widely read and reviewed, so come on out all you K.K. fans and second this emotion!	2001-06-21
US	49517622	R3UUWI45H3JXB3	0375411399	789126573	Collected Poems	Books	4	29	40	N	N	Bull Market for Poetry	Weighing in at almost 900 pages, this book holds just about all the Merrill you'll ever need outside of &quot;Sandover.&quot;  Merrill wrote exactly the kind of poems I used to think of as &quot;real&quot; poetry--stately, measured, clever &amp; bittersweet, with lots of exquisite images to savor along the way.  So why does this writing feel so stuffy and distant to me now?  Reading a Merrill poem is somewhere between doing a crossword and shopping for antiques--you exercise the brain and always find something curious to enjoy, but even the most intimate ones left me strangely unmoved.  I know Merrill has a legion of fans, and I can see why--these poems are among the best of their kind.  But somehow they reminded me of the good chairs in my mom's living room--you could admire them, but you couldn't sit down. Still, the editors have done an excellent job and you'll enjoy going through this handsome book to make up your own mind.	2001-06-15
US	49517622	R332SPK0RMGATQ	0819562637	372872188	The Birth-mark: unsettling the wilderness in American literary history	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Nettles and Brambles Feminine	You'll never read a book the same way again after &quot;The Birth-mark&quot;--you'll wonder about all the spaces, dashes, deletions and marginalia that didn't make it from manuscript to print.  For Howe that's where the wild voices hide, dangerous figures like Anne Hutchinson, Mary Rowlandson and Emily Dickinson who threatened &quot;civilized&quot; male control.  Howe samples texts like a hip-hop DJ, switching between voices to prove her point that editing was a typically male response to the wilderness that women (and the New World) represented.<br />Howe's passion for her subject is obvious, especially in the interview at the end.  But the essays sometimes felt to me at least more like a display of cleverness than an effort to understand the figures she writes about.  Like Charles Olson's &quot;Call Me Ishmael,&quot; Howe's model, &quot;The Birth-mark&quot; squats a little uneasily between scholarship and poetry.  The poet's own voice and sense of style tend to muffle the more distant Puritan voices, male and female, she's out to recover.  Maybe this is the danger of not editing one's voice as a historian.  Still, I'm glad I read this book--yet another reminder of what doesn't get into history and why.	2001-06-15
US	49517622	RRO9LFYW1HT3J	0811213994	793846978	Trilogy (New Directions Classic)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	The Violence Drove Me Inward	Poems of angels and gems and fragrance and stars, all written on the downward slope of WWII.  H.D. praises the life that survives, the mythic returns of Amen-Ra and Christ, which is also the first budding of spring.  London joins in these poems with Karnak and St. John's second city, Paradise--a resurrection of &quot;our earth before Adam,&quot; that &quot;grain or seed/opened like a flower.&quot;  Angels and Magi bring their usual good news, but the last word belongs to Mary Magdalene and the goddesses behind her, shifting from Isis to Venus to H.D. herself.  The thick web of allusions reads at times like a parody of Modernist excess, but the impulse behind them (and these were written quickly, after a long dry spell) is more inspired than erudite.  H.D. improvised a religion of her own that enfolded the War like a shell, tranforming its destruction to a promise of new life.  &quot;Trilogy&quot; is a quiet testament to her faith in writing as redemption, the poet as witness and priest.	2001-06-01
US	49517622	R1YUHWV6TSVUPN	0824516346	244066070	The Girard Reader (Crossroad Herder Book)	Books	5	96	104	N	N	The Key to All Mythologies	This is a remarkably complete introduction to Rene Girard's ideas.  His key theory has the clarity and simplicity of a mathematical proof--desire is not an innate drive but a behavior we learn through imitation (mimesis).  When we mimic our model's desire for the same object, violence breaks out.  Through ritual scapegoating, human communities manage to divert this violence by directing it at a random victim (thus hiding its real source in mimetic rivalry).  According to Girard, this mechanism is at work across all times and cultures, and shapes the plot of nearly every major novel.  For those with a suspicion of grand unifying theories, his idea raises many questions.  Even more controversial is his belief that Christianity brings an end to myth by exposing the scapegoat's innocence.  Christ doesn't die as a sacrifice to God for human sin; instead, the crucifixion reveals the fiction at the root of all sacrifice--the victim's culpability.  This helps to humanize one of Christianity's more troubling doctrines, but it also asks us to believe that the authors of the New Testament understood the workings of mimetic desire 2000 years before Girard articulated the theory. Read the book and come to your own conclusions.  Whatever you decide, after reading Girard you'll look at myth and religion with new eyes.	2001-05-31
US	49517622	R2B6VOFA7Z982I	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	3	3	7	N	N	Wonder Boy Strikes Again	Chabon builds this novel on the creative premise that comic books expressed the experience of Jews in America.  In &quot;Kavalier and Klay&quot; he returns the favor by turning the Jewish-American experience into a comic book, complete with New York art patrons, pink-tuxedoed bar mitzvah kids, vaudaville entertainers and a Czech psychoanalyst for good measure.  The novel tells a genial tale of outsiders and underdogs making a popular art of their own.  But the flat psychology and pasteboard symbolism (escape stands for, well . . . escape) placed the story--for me at least--awkwardly between the outrageous fun of pop art and the depth of analysis you tend to expect from a Pulitzer prize-winning novel.  Enjoy the battles on the ice, the crazed Nazi antics, the death-defying leaps off the Empire State Building.  But for a more sophisticated take on a similar subject, I wonder if a comic book--Art Spiegelmann's &quot;MAUS&quot;--doesn't do a better job.  It's an irony Chabon himself might appreciate.	2001-05-10
US	49517622	R1XBVM7J8Z5OAB	0880015470	512893153	The Mooring Of Starting Out: The First Five Books of Poetry	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Distractions of Really	I'm just beginning my wrestle with this beautiful, maddening book and can already see it's going to be a long and fruitful one.  Little here sounds early--the unsettling dreaminess, walking a thin line between philosophy and nonsense, is there from the first and only deepens.  The voice is one you're bound to recognize, a blend of uncertainty and love for the surface beauty of things;  a world constantly appearing, but never there long enough to leave more than a skater's trace.  And tres American.  It's hard to imagine (here in the first flush) how any other way of writing could speak so prettily and still keep a straight face in this doubting age of ours that offers so much to see and love.	2001-04-27
US	49517622	R34NQNM6LECCF6	0785808701	15590372	The Essential Kabbalah: The Heart of Jewish Mysticism	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Helpful, Not Essential	I picked up this slim book expecting a simple, New Age-y take on a complex tradition.  The fact that so few selections run over a page and the authors get banished to the end notes didn't help to dispel this impression.<br />But reading more closely I was surprised by how well Matt manages to cover some of the Kabbalah's central obsessions in such a short space.  The intricate patterns of the Sefirot, the notion of God's 'Nothingness', and a more philosophical account of Creation than the version in Genesis all make a concise appearance.  Reading authors from different centuries on the same subject helps to reinforce some of the trickier ideas.<br />The intro and notes lean heavily on Gershom Scholem's more detailed scholarship.  I'd have liked to see more passages from the Zohar (the most famous text of Kabbalah, which Matt's translated), and a historical arrangement would appeal to readers looking for more than Chicken Soup for the Soul.  But Matt compensates with useful notes and a good bibliography.  The translations themselves are clear but not afraid to shy away from  knotty philosphical concepts that will have you thinking of parallels from Buddhism to the Big Bang.<br />The book left me wanting to read more from the texts, which was probably its aim.  A helpful start for anyone interested in learning about this fascinating tradition.	2001-03-30
US	49517622	R1PM3IE2BFVQVV	0805210423	792138742	Major Trends in Jewish Mysticism	Books	5	34	38	N	N	The Screwball Kabbalah	With these nine snapshots of Great Moments in Jewish Mysticism, Scholem gives an amazing crash course in an immense &amp; complex spiritual tradition.  His chapter on the Zohar is especially helpful, with concise explanations of tricky concepts like Sefiroth and the Shekinah, God's female aspect (I had no idea!  Though since reading this I've heard Leonard Nimoy say that he copped Spock's split-finger greeting from synagogue, where it signaled the Shekinah's presence).<br />Scholem's affection for the Kabbalists stems from his belief that they kept alive a mythic, almost pantheistic, vision of God against the more rationalizing tendencies of mainstream Judaism.  The mystics as he describes them, despite their arcane systems, were closer to popular beliefs and aspirations than the 'official' rabbinical tradition.  In 1938, when Scholem gave these lectures, he hoped for a spiritual revival from within Jewish mysticism at a moment of crisis.  I don't know if the New Age hipness of the Kabbalah was what he had in mind, but for all the measured, scholarly prose his heart is clearly with the weirdos.<br />I knew almost nothing about Jewish mysticism going into this book.  I put it down with a new respect for one of the human mind's more intricate and neglected creations.	2001-03-27
US	49517622	R9NM6SQJC438A	1887123482	38414444	Joe Brainard: I Remember	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Pocket-Sized Proust	I just picked up a copy of \\"I Remember\\" at a Joe Brainard retrospective at the Berkeley Art Museum last weekend.  All the warmth, humor and good-natured silliness of his art are here in these \\"poems\\"--1-3 sentence reminiscences that meander from his Tulsa childhood to sexual experiences in New York in the mid '60s. It's tempting to quote individual lines, but I'd best leave the writing to Brainard.  Just dip in anywhere and follow the flow from objects to advertisements to remembrances of friends or incidents or walks, all woven together by the nostalgic refrain: \\"I remember . . . \\"<br /><br />Brainard records impressions like a camera, not trying to make them mean.  Without pretension or irony, he mananges to describe an America of a certain time and place more vividly than longer, more macho efforts to capture The American Experience.  Brainard makes it seem easy, and he passes the fun on to you.  Read, remember, enjoy.	2001-03-15
US	49517622	R2S8NCWHDKC7A3	0060976098	489457824	Fiskadoro	Books	4	38	39	N	N	Allah, Quetzalcoatal, Bob Marley	Have you ever wished you could believe in ghosts?  Or Jesus or Bob Marley or Bruce Lee?  &quot;Fiskadoro&quot; creates a bizarre, poetic world where the civilization that stands between us and earlier forms of belief has been wiped out in a nuclear attack.<br />The new denizens of Twicetown (once Key West) live among the fragments of a half-remembered time, where scraps of different languages, musics, religions and machines exist without the memory of their earlier meaning or purpose.  With no history to understand, the characters return to a more primal (primitive?) instinct for magic, ritual and resurrection.<br />Johnson writes with the weird precision of dreams, where details like the heat or the color of a tree are crystal-clear, but the larger meanings stay blurred.  He's especially good at describing extreme states--epileptic fits, the Saigon airlift, a druggy tribal initiation rite.<br />But the characters themselves never felt very real to me.  Maybe that's part of the point:  without memory, identity softens and leaves a new margin for the spirit-world, for the deaths and strange rebirths that fill the story.  But I found it hard to stay interested in what happened to anyone, and the novel ends (for me at least) with more muddle than mystery.<br />Still, Johnson's makes his fractured world every bit as believable as ours.  His sharp, lyrical prose will haunt you long after you've forgotten the plot.	2001-03-02
US	49517622	R2NRFI9ERBBEER	0802130607	705586380	Mexico City Blues: 242 Choruses	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Spontaneous Bop Prosody	It took me a while to get beyond the Beat myth and see these poems for what they are--some of the most joyful, goofy and affecting writings of the last century.  Jack wrote all 242 choruses--one per notebook page--over six weeks in 1955.  His improvised word-jazz was at its peak;  the poems are fresh and spontaneous but rarely sloppy (try it yourself if you don't believe me).  The Buddhist leanings are a little simple-minded, but simplicity is part of the point.  In layout and verbal inventiveness Jack's more experimental than most poets writing today.  He combines a love for made-up words and language as pure sound with a lyrical directness that you find more often in pop songs than modern poetry.  Hearing Jack read some of these on the Steve Allen record made me realize how rare a thing his poems achieved: sentiment, experiment, tenderness, peace.  A moving companion to On the Road.	2001-02-10
US	49517622	RDGU2U25GA1N9	0140187081	262422883	The Recognitions (Penguin Classics)	Books	3	16	28	N	N	&quot;A&quot; for Originality	Wow, I'm the first to review this after Terry Southern!  Unfortunately, after slogging through the 800+ pages I don't have much good to say.  The plot involves the vaguely interconnected lives of a counterfeiter, a plagarist and a forger of Renaissance masterworks.  Ironically (shades of the postmodern), the forger turns out to be the only true artist in the book.  Wyatt's spiritual longing and his monk-like devotion to the forger's craft are undercut by the persistent suggestion that myth itself--any notion of origin, an &quot;original&quot;--is based on forgery.  What remains of belief is the will to believe, a paradox mirrored in the verbal hesitations that mar so much of the dialogue.  Without the animating faith of the Old Masters, Gaddis seems to be saying that all art becomes a sham.  To prove the point, long stretches of the story are given over to a collection of New York bohemians and poseurs who don't seem worth the attention.  Considering how young Gaddis was when he wrote this, the novel's scope is impressive, and I'm sure Southern's right that the critics were too brutal.  But the convolutions of the story don't really pay off after making so many demands on a reader.  I haven't read Gaddis's other novels, where he may have found a surer ear.  Judging from this one, his reach seems to outstrip his talent.	2001-02-10
US	49517622	R1W5GWR24UKL47	039304999X	646578466	Selected Poems and Prose of Paul Celan	Books	5	20	20	N	N	The light and the Light	I bought this book after reading a single line--&quot;the light and the Light.&quot;  Felstiner renders Celan's notoriously intricate verse into poems so direct and luminous that you might mistake them for having been written in English.  I also appreciated the spare notes;  he trusts you and the poems to find each other on your own, and doesn't try to footnote away the mystery.  I'm grateful for a book that makes Celan's beauty, sadness and experiment so visible in English.  A labor of light.	2000-12-09
US	49517622	R34HA43WR5RRS4	0226106748	34524688	Tears and Saints	Books	4	12	15	N	N	a paradise of tears	Whether God exists or not, the saints are facts.  In this slim, aphoristic book (his last written in Romanian), Cioran sets out to measure the distance between us and the saints.  He finds in them an antipode to ourselves--their sickness, melancholy, insomnia and lust for the absolute all charged positive, where for us they've become SYMPTOMS.<br />For Cioran, the saints' tears are evidence of a special consciousness--a nostalgia for an Absolute, a dissatisfaction with the world as we find it--that we recapture at the irrational extremes of sex, boredom, illness and, above all, the melacholy rapture of music.  Cioran doesn't try to psychoanalyze the saints, or dismiss them as aberrations.  Instead, he uses them to explore parts of our own psychology (our souls?) that have new meanings here, on the other side of God.  What's left to us since the saints have cried?  &quot;We no longer believe in them.  WE ONLY ADMIRE THEIR ILLUSIONS.  Hence our compassion.&quot;	2000-11-13
US	49517622	RO19MLDCXVNQ1	0801843715	440329197	Pound's Cantos	Books	5	14	14	N	N	The Electric Godhead in the Fine and Small	A remarkable introduction to Ezra Pound.  Makin explains some of the underlying structures that order the Cantos--periplous, ideogram, fugue, the 'repeat in history'--and gives concise readings of individual sections  that helped my understanding enormously.  He does an especially good job of  connecting Pound's theory of money to his views on sex and creativity.  Makin manages to be critical of Pound while treating his ideas with verve  and sympathy;  the writing is colloquial, witty and jargon-free.  I enjoyed  the Cantos much more after reading this short, effective study.	2000-07-06
