US	49517036	R30L6LNKC5GJ6A	1573227161	950636517	Caucasia: A Novel	Books	4	24	30	N	Y	Enlightening	Birdie cannot remember a time when her parents were ever happy.  This simple statement of fact paints the reality of Caucasia.  After her parents, her Caucasian mother and black father, call it quits, their daughters Birdie, the youngest who looks white, and Cole with her brown skin and curly hair, become pawns to their parents insanity.  Each parent is on the run with the child who most resembles him or her. <br />The story is told through the eyes of Birdie who misses her sister Cole so much that the only thing sustaining her is her belief in their eventual reunion.  After Cole leaves in the middle of the night with Deck, their father, and his new black girlfriend headed for Brazil, \\"he needs a strong black woman, he's had enough of the crazy white girl\\", Birdie and her mother spend years traveling from one state to another staying one step ahead of the authorities or so her mother believes.  After about 5 years on the run, they settle down in New Hampshire and there they are able to achieve some semblance of a normal life but in order to do this in this overwhelmingly white town, Birdie must pass for white.  Senna chronicles Birdie's life as an adolescent with such grace and power, I could feel her pain. She was placed in an unbelievable situation but she coped and was able to overcome her situation.<br />Deck had a theory called Canaries in the Coal Mine based on the fact that canaries were placed into coal mines to gauge how poisonous the air underground was.  He believed mulattos historically have gauged how poisonous American race relations are.  I believe what multiracial individuals can really teach us all is tolerance, and show us how harmful and detrimental our attitudes about race really are.  Perhaps they can lead us out of the coal mines.  Paraphrasing Walter Mosley in Devil in the Blue Dress, race in America runs both ways, it harms us all socially, financially and most of all spiritually. <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO BookClub	2002-12-07
US	49517036	R1WY5K7DG23QVB	0452276071	697524841	Daughters of the Dust: A Novel	Books	5	10	12	N	N	MOVING	Daughters of the Dust is a very moving, mystical journey full of haunting imagery and simple pleasures.  It is the story of Amelia, an anthropology student, who has to decided to study the people of Dawtah Island as her thesis.  Dawtah Island has been a mystery to her for as long as she can remember.  Her mother and grandmother were born on the island.  Her  grandmother seems to despise everything about the island especially the people and their ignorant and backwards customs.  In direct contrast her mother's fondest memories are of her life on the island, she remembers being truly happy there.  Amelia has only visited the island once and was in awe of the simplicity of life there. <br />It is decided that Amelia will live with Eula and Eli, her aunt and uncle, while she studies the culture and customs of the island.  Initially she finds the residents of the island reluctant to talk to her.  They consider her an outsider and fear she will not understand them.  As the islanders become more familiar with Ameila they begin to open up and share their stories with her.  Through their stories she realizes their culture is rich in customs; they live in harmony with the animals and elements.  They live a simple life but they control their own destiny and  revel in life's simple pleasures.  Their stories also tell of the joys of love and heartaches of lost or unrequited loves.<br />Reserve a couple weeks to read this one, it's a \\"ponderers\\" delight.	2002-12-04
US	49517036	R3KHM9KWXU620I	0743224973	906191288	Harlem Redux: A Novel	Books	5	9	9	N	Y	A MUST READ!	Lately I have had the pleasure of reading so many good mysteries that I have been in reader's heaven and I certainly count Harlem Redux among the best of them.  <br />David McKay, the prodigal son, returns home after a 4 year self imposed exile.  His sister Lillian is dead and the authorities are convinced it is suicide. David knows better and suspects foul play. So much has happened in his absence, his other sister, Lillian's twin, Gem, has disappeared; Lillian was living a life she never disclosed to him in their clandestine correspondences , and old friends have potentially devastating secrets. <br />Harlem Redux has so may twists, turns and elaborate subplots it reminds you of an old Alfred Hitchcock thriller.  It is like a house of cards; each secret you unravel brings you one step closer to solving the mystery and bringing down the house.  <br />I also thoroughly enjoyed the historical look at Harlem in the early twenties and thirties. When reading time pieces or historical accounts of the early 1900's I am always amazed at how little people and their attitudes change.  Technology gets bigger and maybe better, our lives become complicated and more stressful but when you get right down to it, people really do not change a whole lot, and Harlem Redux reminds us of this.  The very same ideas and beliefs that shape so many of the characters in this novel and cause their unraveling are very prevalent today and are just as destructive.  Our ideas about love, acceptance and tolerance govern us and in many ways direct the path our lives take. <br />I strongly recommend this one even if you are not a big fan of Mysteries. <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO Book Club	2002-12-04
US	49517036	R2E82FD83P6YET	096797450X	571603696	Dream In Color	Books	4	2	3	N	N	ESCAPISM AT ITS BEST	After finding out she is pregnant by her boyfriend Gerald, all Victoria wants is for them to marry and Gerald to take on his share of financial and parental responsibility .  We are always told to be specific in our request.  Victoria has gotten just what she requested, and it's a complete and utter nightmare.  Now she is trapped in a loveless marriage.  Gerald is verbally abusive, neglectful and mean.    <br />So Victoria invents a more suitable life in the form of two taboo relationships.  The first with a younger man and the second with a British rock star.  These are not happily ever after scenarios that give her everything she in missing in her life with Gerald.  But they are in fact actual dreamed out affairs complete with problems, friendship, and family interference.  The one thing common to both these relationships that she is not experiencing in her real life marriage is love.  Despite all the other obstacles she faces, she is much happier with these dream lovers.  I guess love really does conquer all.    <br />Dream in color is a page turner. The story moves at a good pace and is well written.   The two dream sequences are very interesting.  They really reminded me of stand alone short stories but at the end the author is able to bring it all together.<br />If you're looking for something a little different, this might be just the book for you.<br />Reviewed by Ruby<BR>APOOO Book Club	2002-11-29
US	49517036	R3L6IGERTU873Q	0345449088	718313189	Stormy Weather	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Really a 4.5	Charlotte Justice is on the case again.  This time the case involves the death of Maynard Duncan, who in his day was one of the elite of black Hollywood.   Was it murder, suicide or an accident;Charlotte will have to delve into the victims life to figure it out and Maynard has a few more skeletons in his closet than most of us. <br />This novel picks up where Inner City Blues left off.  It's an entirely different case Justice is assigned to but there are a lot of constants.   Steve Hightower, her supervisor,  still needs a good castration;he continues to make Charlotte's days in the department a living hell.  Her family which she affectionately calls the \\"Nut House\\" is still earning its' good name and her relationship with the \\"good\\" doctor is heating up in more way than one.<br />Paula Woods writes with such grace.  Her story lines are so well thought out and clever, but I think I enjoy her characterizations the most.  They are just as paramount to the enjoyment of her novels as the plot.  She gives us some of the most interesting and flushed out characters. <br />Another Winner! <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO Book Club	2002-11-29
US	49517036	R3BDD3I1VLDELZ	039304680X	523633033	Inner City Blues: A Charlotte Justice Novel (Charlotte Justice Novels)	Books	4	8	9	N	Y	Another Great Series	I love a good mystery and Paula Woods has written a winner.  Charlotte Justice joins the ranks with other top notch African American female sleuths Tamara Hayle, Blanche White, Star Duvall and newcomer Alex Powell.  Our appropriately named heroine is a detective with the LAPD's Homicide Division; she's bright, socially aware and intuitive. Thirteen years ago her husband and baby girl were murdered in the driveway of their home providing Charlotte with a very personal interest in justice being served. <br />The Justice clan is quite a family, all card carrying members of the black bourgeois;  brother Perris a former LAPD cop turned criminal defense attorney; his equally ambitious buppie wife Louise; Charlotte's father, a chemist who has made a small fortune manufacturing cosmetics for black women and Mom Justice, a fair-skinned daughter of an upper crust black family.  Charlotte cringes at and often breaks the three Justice rules which are 1.  Don't marry anyone too light, or too dark  2.  Common is a word that should only be applied to stocks not people and 3.  Don't even fix your mouth to say you're in love with some white person.      <br />There are also several other equally interesting and well developed characters, for instance Steve Hightower, Charlotte's supervisor.   With his black mother/Jewish father he has no idea who or what he is and is so uncomfortable around black people he's earned the nickname \\"incognegro.\\"  Unfortunately he's making an exception in Charlotte's case almost making Clarence Thomas look like a choir boy.  We also have Aubrey Scott, a gorgeous doctor that Charlotte has known almost all her life.  She is so smitten with him she can't think straight, which hopefully won't turn out to be a bad move. <br />Inner City Blues is set in LA during the riots that followed the Rodney King verdict.  The man who stole Charlotte's life Cinque Lewis is found dead and Lance Mitchell, a doctor who works with Aubrey, is the main suspect.   Charlotte hopes to be able to clear Lance's good name and also find out where Lewis has been hiding for the last thirteen years. <br />I can't wait to read the second book of the series \\"Stormy Weather\\".  I've already ordered my copy. <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO BookClub	2002-08-19
US	49517036	R36HA2GWOF67TM	0345446828	520429588	Don't Believe Your Lying Eyes: A Darryl Billups Mystery	Books	4	3	4	N	N	WONDERFUL SERIES	I personally believe one of the essential elements in a good mystery is a likable protagonist with whom the reader can identify and also bond.  Darryl Billups is such a character.  He is smart, savvy and has the inquisitive nature required for sleuthing.  His job as an investigative journalist provides him with ample opportunity and access to the information needed to solve crimes and unravel mysteries. <br />This new case is going to be a real challenge.  The body of a young African American woman is discovered in a storage facility, and she appears to have been a woman of means.  All indications are the body has been hidden for over 18 years.  The big questions are who is she, who murdered her and why?  Darryl is given the assignment by his editor and it soon becomes evident that some pretty important people would rather Darryl not figure this one out.  Quite frankly,  that's not Billups style and he becomes even more determined to find the killer/s. <br />On a personal note,  Darryl's love life is in shambles.  His fiance, Yolanda, and he are having major problems which are beginning to seem insurmountable. Issues that until now he has ignored,  but with the upcoming nuptials,  he's forced to consider.  To complicate matters Darryl finds himself working this case with a very attractive female detective. <br />I loved this one just as much as the first two novels.  The story leaves you hanging a little at the end, but I'll forgive that because I know there's another book in the works.  Right Blair...... <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO BookClub	2002-07-31
US	49517036	R30EDAE7QUT4QW	0446528366	434101475	A Conversation with the Mann	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Not to be Missed	I had never heard of Jackie Mann.  I didn't feel so badly about not knowing him after John Ridley admitted in his introduction that he had not heard of him either before eventually meeting him when he was long past his glory days.  Reading the Jacket cover I discovered he was one of the premiere black club Comedians in the 1950's, early 60's who made a living \\"telling America what it wanted to hear\\", but in reality Jackie Mann's life is like an \\"Aesop Fable\\", the moral of the story cannot be missed. <br />All Jackie Mann ever wanted was to be famous, to be somebody and he was willing to do whatever was necessary to get there.  Mr. Ridley tells his story with such eloquence and compassion and the story itself is so compelling I couldn't put the book down.  I also understood his decisions.  How he had arrived at every point where he made what could be considered fatal missteps.  I can not honestly say that in that time and space, without a doubt, hand on a stack of bibles; I would have done things so differently.  A fact I'm not proud of, but as a black woman who can't make a decision to stop perming her hair   (it may be too political)  I can hardly sit in judgment of him.  I liked Jackie Mann. I was with him all the way.  Wanted him to have his glory without paying too dearly for it.  In retrospect people may point to his life as an example of what happens when you will not stand up and be a man, but Jackie Mann lived in an era where speaking your mind could not only kill your career but end your life.  To be righteous and noble in those situations is to be admired, the stuff martys are made of,  but it really takes more guts than most of us have. <br />While Jackie Mann never became a household name, most of the people who were in and around his life we know extremely well.  At times this book gave us new glimpses at stories we've heard about some of Hollywood's Icons and a new look at some of our hero's.  There were also several people in Jackie's life that kept pushing him to be the man they knew he could be, who were succeeding on their own terms.  As faith would have it they all became the one thing Jackie really wanted to be Famous. <br />A Must Read!!!! <br />Reviewed by Ruby <BR>APOOO Bookclub	2002-06-24
US	49517036	R11HLNMJHN1TH4	0385502958	283373025	The Queen of Harlem	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	Food for Thought	You're lucky enough by birthright to be part of a privileged class of blacks, who live in large mansion, attend extravagant parties, can afford beautiful clothing and attend the most prestigious universities; how can you be a man of the people when you've never struggled or lived in the &quot;neighborhood&quot;.  This is Mason's dilemma. So he moves to Harlem, and is immediately aware that if he is going to really experience Harlem in a beneficial way he must assimilate. So he exchanges the Dockers, sweaters and brook brothers suits, for baggy pants, a bubble jacket and dreads, and Malik is born.<br />Ironically, Malik ends up living in an old Harlem Estate, much like the one his parents own, with a beautiful Harlem Socialite, Carmen.  Carmen is truly an enigma, throughout the book I had the hardest time figuring out what was really going on with her.  Malik is attracted to both her and her lifestyle, as she introduces him to artist, writers and other icons of the New York scene.  Malik convinces Carmen he is just a poor brother trying to get ahead, so she takes him under her wings to give him an education in the finer things in life.  Malik also meets Malcolm a struggling student, whose life actually mirrors the one he has fabricated for himself.  Through their friendship he starts to truly understand that his duplicity is an offense against those who actually live this existence day in and out.<br />This is the first novel I've read by Brian Keith Jackson but certainly not my last.  His writing is stylish, engaging and refreshing.  I loved the ending; I honestly never saw it coming.	2002-05-31
US	49517036	RZPR67ZVU468R	0380808900	186295370	Plain Brown Wrapper: An Alex Powell Novel	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Oh What Fun!  Really a 4.5	Alex Powell is a riot.  I laughed so hard at her commentary on all her friends, co-workers and suspects in this wonderful murder mystery.  I should warn that in Plain Brown Wrapper the mystery is secondary.  It is more of a backdrop for the introduction to a cast of characters that make up the black upper-middle/upper class in Journalism.  Alex pokes fun at their little idiosyncrasies but it's never done with contempt which I found very refreshing.  There is no doubt that she respects each of these individuals for what they have accomplished and contributed to the world of black journalism but she still doesn't mind giving us a humorous look at what they are all about.  She paints them as intelligent, self assured, very comfortable with who they are and not tripping all over themselves to assimilate.<br />At the annual Black Journalist Convention, Alex's mentor and friend Everette Carson, affectionately know as EV, is murdered.  Alex and friend Paul Bates discover his body, in his hotel room and she rather rashly offers the police detective their assistance but retracts the offer after the dirty looks Paul starts giving her.  Later the Police have no clues and decide that she and Paul might have more success finding out what happened since the general consensus is that the murderer is probably among the guest attending the conference.  So Alex and Paul team up, they have a week to travel around speaking with the most likely suspects.<br />The dialog is witty, clever, insightful and hilarious.  Alex's boss at the paper,  A.S. Fine,  who she calls \\"a repressed Jew\\" with his blond hair, he tries very hard to disengage himself from anything Jewish.  Alex constantly takes him to task , for example when he tells her the paper is giving her the week off to help the police:  she says \\"Do I have a say in this, or did you already make the arrangements with the overseer? A. S. sighed. Oh please.  Do we have to do the race thing this Morning?  she says \\"If not now, When? If notus who?\\" You are also going to love Paul who is just as clever as Alex and who is without a doubt a \\"good brother\\".   <br />I hope this is a series, I can't wait for the next installment.<br />	2002-05-29
US	49517036	R39LMCH15DXH5P	0375758097	795325062	Meant to Be: A Novel (Strivers Row)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Spritual and Moving	Meant to Be is a beautifully crafted, well written novel that explores love and family relationships with great depth and honesty.  Told from the point of view of a deceased grandmother who hopes her spiritual presence will be strong enough to save her granddaughter, Patience, from the fates that have haunted her family. <br />At a very young age Patience realizes that although both her parents love her dearly,  they show very little love and caring towards each other.  Daily she watches and wonders what the cause of the conflict is and if it will eventually cause major changes in her life.  Patience finds comfort and solace in her long heartfelt conversations with her Aunt Ada, who seems to have great insight into most of life's mysteries,  and she discovers a love of music by listening to her parents old Jazz and Blues recordings.  This becomes one of her greatest passions as she is mesmerized by the music of Billie, Sarah, Ella, Dinah and Nancy. <br />As Patience matures and moves away from the quiet little rural town her parents sought refuge in, she starts reflecting on her love life.   She's not sure what she wants in a relationship but she know she does not want the dysfunctional situation her parents have.  Patience meets two very different men who both have her considering what it truly takes to have a life filled with love. Her parents, Aunt Ada, Grandmother and best friend Sarah will all mentor and counsel her with their experiences. <br />My only qualm with this book is that at the end little is resolved.  I don't need a story wrapped up with a big red bow on top but I enjoy a little packaging.  Still this is a very good debut novel, Rita Coburn Whack is definitely a talented writer.  I look forward to future novels from her. <br />Reviewed by Ruby<BR>APOOO Bookclub	2002-05-16
US	49517036	R3DLONL3RNPAA8	0345437896	68525597	Satisfy My Soul	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Satisfaction for your Soul	I've had this book for over 2 month.  I've been saving it.   After reading Waiting in Vain I knew what to expect from this author and he has surpassed my rather lofty expectations.  Satisfy My Soul is a novel that will haunt you.  It is a canvas of exotic locations and erotic interplay. It is a brilliant, eloquent book of contradictions, at times wickedly naughty then moments later warm and alluring.  It characters are hopelessly flawed and later just examples of the human condition.  It's mystical and worldly and then spiritual and pious.<br />This is all reflected in the characters Colin has created.  No one can capture in written word the subtle emotional changes in human thought and behavior quite like Mr. Channer.  Frances is a walking contradiction; she is a whore yet totally faithful to her man.  Carey is intrigued by her a little put-off by her propensity toward bedding many men, but he finds a \\"dirty girl\\" a bit of a challenge can't pass up an opportunity to clean up after other men.  Carey is a very flawed individual but spends an enormous amount of time intellectualizing and reveling in the flaws of others.  Yet he does very little work on his own psyche.  It is true brilliance that Colin can sell us these characters, make us care deeply, how dare we judge, are we really that different?<br />Colin's command of language is astounding.   He uses some of the literary techniques used in poetry such as repetition and free form.  In one of my favorite sections of the books Carey is on his way to France's home and he is talking to her on his phone and he says he can't remember \\"the order of the conversation or who said what\\" and then Colin lists about 30 lines of the most erotic, intriguing conversation in no particular order or structure, Amazing!  I just sat there looking at it..........<br />Remember when Julia Roberts said she didn't want to live in a world where she had an Oscar and Denzel Washington didn't.  I don't want to live in a world where Colin Channer does not make the bestsellers list.	2002-04-25
US	49517036	RRJ6LE7UTK7OA	0967883261	625133395	The Last Days Murder List	Books	3	3	3	N	Y	Quirky Enjoyable Read....More like 3.5 stars	Last Days Murder list starts a little slow but once it picks up steam you're in for an enjoyable ride.  Alice Holman's debut novel is full of quirky humor and good characterizations.  Two favorite characters are Billie and Pharoah both are very unique and well developed .  Billie is a very caring and bright woman but works and a waitress and seems content to live in poverty.  This case causes her to take a good introspective look at her life and the paths she has chosen.  Pharoah is a guy who seems to have it all together;he's good looking, reliable, financially solvent but his love life is a complete mess.  Working this murder with Billie puts him on the right track to getting love figured out too.  <br />Billie and Pharoah are a rather unlikely pair of amateur sleuths but  I thoroughly enjoyed the insider view of their planning, plotting and investigating trying to find a killer that is<BR>systematically murdering their friends and acquaintances.  As they get closer to the truth a few unsavory things are uncovered,  things you never imagined were taking place in this<BR>quaint little city.	2002-04-20
US	49517036	RNQSYLUIOCUKK	0688169058	314406782	Meeting of the Waters: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Thought Provoking	This has to be the most honest portrayal of an interracial romance that I've ever read.  Having no personal experience in this area, I'm by no means an expert.  It just feels right.  I also found it refreshing that neither Lee nor Porter had a hidden agenda.  No wild curiousity or need to see if the myth's were true.  He simply thought she was beautiful and smart and was relentless in his pursuit of her.<br />Kim Mclarin very aptly captures the dichotomy of Lee's feelings about her relationship with Porter.  On one hand she's a black female reporter who loves her family, believes in supporting black businesses and entrepreneur, works very hard to write and promote stories that matter to her and the black community.  On the other she finds Porter easy to be with, they have a lot in common, great times together and she's falling in love with him.  Are these two opposing forces or can she intertwine them both and still maintain a balance without losing herself in the process?<br />Another very pleasant  surprise is that McClarin gives Porter a equally strong voice.  We know his ambitions, his prejudices, how his relationship with his family affect his relationships with women.  Porter's a little naive at first, this relationship is no big deal.  Just two people who and like and care about each other, one is just darker than the other.  We are there when he realizes there is going to be a lot more to deal with than just the regular relationship drama.<br />This had to be a very difficult story to tell.  She pulls no punches and is at times brutally honest.  It is very well written and very compelling.	2002-04-20
US	49517036	R1AC1BXJWAAXVV	0316114952	998835829	The Seasons of Beento Blackbird: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	RAINMAKER	Solomon Wilberforce can make it rain!  I mean literally and figuratively.  He walks in a room and the air shifts, he's a talented writer of books for children, a man of the people,<BR>socially aware, handsome and gracious.  Maybe too much for one woman, that's why Solomon has three.  No he's not a player anything that trivial and gaudy would be beneath him.  <br />Let's start with Sam, his agent, their relationship is strictly platonic but she knows a rainmaker when she sees one and is hopelessly in love with Solomon.  He likes her, enjoys her company, thinks she's a beautiful, talented sister but that's the extent of his interest.  He only sees her in the Spring & Fall during his \\"working\\" seasons.<br />Miriam is his winter woman, his first love and wife.  Miriam, a beautiful midwife,  is an icon herself on their home island of Jamaica, she delivered Solomon when she was only 9 years old.  Their souls are connected.<br />Summer belongs to Aisha, a young beautiful Ghanaian woman, one look in those big, jet black eyes and Solomon was a goner.  Aisha is his second wife.  Of course this noble warrior asked Miriam's permission to marry Aisha and she consented.<br />Everything was fine, had been for over 5 years, until Solomon stepped out of season.  This is a beautiful story wonderfully told.  Busia is a very gifted writer.	2002-03-24
US	49517036	R11SMS25NXDM28	0688165141	605678236	Color of Justice: A Novel of Suspense	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent Mystery	If it walks like a black man, talks like a black man, thinks like a black man, it must be a black man.  Right!  Wrong! What if I told you he was a big Irishman with red hair and green<BR>eyes.   At first glance Danny Cavanaugh seems to stomp all over the creed \\"to thine ownself be true\\" but you quickly realize this is not an act.  This is who he really is.  \\"Color\\" is a big<BR>part of this story.<br />Some of Detroit's most prominent black citizens are being murdered in the most heinous ways possible.  The killer has tortured them and kept them alive so that they suffer long,<BR>painful deaths.  So we know it must be personal. <br />Danny Cavanaugh and his partner  Erik Brown are assigned to find out who this killer is and stop him fast.  But oh,  he is so clever and the bodies are piling up.  The FBI insist they<BR>may actually be looking for the first true black serial killer. The story moves fast and Hardwick keeps the suspense at a optimum.  Everything about this book is satisfying, the story is top notch, the writing is superb it flows and  grabs your attention .  A lot of Hardwicks ideas about color and race will have you thinking about this one long after you've closed the covers.  Hardwick is quickly becoming one of my favorite mystery writers.	2002-03-02
US	49517036	R2M5ZV4LL0FPGF	0380977338	622869821	I Wish I Had a Red Dress	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Warm and Amazing	Pearl Cleage is truly amazing. Her writing is so genuine and her ideas so prolific I'm in awe. She's also one fantastic storyteller. Cleage is what I call a \\"Gentle Feminist\\" she believes in women learning to think for themselves and becoming independent but unlike most staunch feminist she wants the boys along for the ride. She loves men (we have that in common) and knows women cannot survive without them nor should we try.<br />I Wish I had a Red Dress is a testament to her philosophy. If your not interested in the messages you will still enjoy the story. Joyce is the older sister from \\"What Looks Like Crazy on an Ordinary Day\\". She's a widow and resident social activist in a little black town called Idlewild. Joyce's husband was the love of her life, it's been years since his death and she is<BR>still grieving. Nate Anderson , a former cop, and newcomer to Idlewild has taken a job as a counselor at the local high school, he too wants to make a difference in the lives of young people. Of course they meet and Nate is one of those guys people should warn you about, so you don't stare. He is big! I'm talking 6'8\\" and big and as far as Joyce is concerned absolutely gorgeous. At one point while talking about Nate, Joyce says \\"he laughs and shakes his big ole head\\" and I'm thinking only Cleage could make that sexy. He's not perfect or flawless, but he's wonderful just the same. Can these two socially aware, beautiful people find love? Of course they can but this is Cleage and not a romance novel, so a zillion things are going to transpire between point A and B and if you're not careful you may learn something from each of them.	2002-03-02
US	49517036	R1H7F71LEMEKRR	0345420853	823721978	Reckless Eyeballin' (Starletta Duvall Mysteries)	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Murder in the ranks of the Rich and Famous	With this one Judith proves again why those of us  who have discovered her remain loyal and eagerly await for her next release.  As usual she does not disappoint.<br />Murder is always sinister but throw power, prestige, money and passion into the ring and things really get ugly.  In this one we not only get a riveting murder mystery but she takes a very real look at human nature when everything is at risk.  <br />At the beginning of the story there are two very different and brutal murders,  Star and Paresi have their hands full trying to solve them.  To complicate matters one of the victims is a longtime friend of Mitchell Grant's, and he's grieving and trying to help find her killer.  Add to the mix that Mitch's ex-wife has decided she doesn't approve of his new love interest.<br />Once you pick this one up you will not be able to put it down, so clear your calendar and wait until the kids are in bed.	2001-12-31
US	49517036	R3RWJ0KRL748MO	0525945687	662398497	Four Guys and Trouble	Books	5	0	0	N	N	ONE OF THE BEST IN THIS GENRE	I promised myself I would not read another 3 or 4 girls or guys story, just sick and tired of these types of books.  Normally the stories are so inane and silly they defy all reason.  A friend whose judgment I trust told me to read this one.  She said it was one of the best.  She is absolutely right.  After the first couple chapters I couldn't have cared less how many characters there were.  Majors' writing is very smooth and genuine.  The characters are well developed and while boys will be boys it is never silly and unrealistic.  I even came to love bad boy Ibn.  Make an exception in this case.	2001-11-02
US	49517036	RX7DX7NVPUTFJ	0380813750	275487255	Before the Dawn	Books	5	0	0	N	Y	Having Rider (my bad) RYDER Fantasies	This is another historical masterpiece by Beverly Jenkins.  She comes up with some really great ideas for her stories.  I guess that's why she writes books and I only write reviews.  Okay the gist of the story, Leah marries her mother's long-time love, don't get turned off, on his deathbed but only because he loves her like a daughter and wants to leave her his inheritance.  The problem, he has two sons both older than Leah and he wants her to convey to them his regrets at having been such a lousy father and let them know he died a changed man.  Now!  Here's the reason that you really, really want to read this book.<br />When Pearl Cleage told us she was looking for a brother to \\"turn the boat around\\" she had Ryder Damien in mind.  A strong-willed, handsome, take-charge man who knows what he wants and goes after it.  Of course he has a few \\"soft spots\\" when people have been slinging hurtful barbs at you all your life, you get a little sensitive, but Leah is the cure for all his ills.   This book is charged with raw sexuality the pages sizzle.  Ryder is witty, charming (when he wants to be) and exciting and Leah is his equal in every respect.  What a Man!!!!  Just think you can get all this for $5.95 even less if you order from Amazon.	2001-11-02
US	49517036	R1TM50DFIRQ5SH	0684841436	919136449	Child of God: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	GREAT READ	I'm a big fan of Lolita Files, but looking at the description of this book I thought about not reading it for a while. Fortunately, it was my book club selection for the month because I absolutely love this book. <br />It's well written, beautifully paced, grabs your attention and never lets you go.  It's a very difficult story to tell and in the hands of a less talented author it could be too very dark and disturbing to enjoy.   Some of the characters are so sinister it is amazing that Ms. Files is able to breath life into them and force you to actually care what becomes of them.   We know the characters so well we are forced to understand how very bad things can happen to good people.   She's tackling though subjects here Incest, Voodoo, Obsession, Betrayal, Sexuality but somehow we always know there is light at the end of the tunnel and hope for future generations.	2001-11-02
US	49517036	R350TKZJAV57OP	0380813750	275487255	Before the Dawn	Books	5	12	13	N	Y	Having Rider (my bad) RYDER Fantasies	This is another historical masterpiece by Beverly Jenkins.  She comes up with some really great ideas for her stories.  I guess that's why she writes books and I only write reviews.  Okay the gist of the story, Leah marries her mother's long-time love, don't get turned off, on his deathbed but only because he loves her like a daughter and wants to leave her his inheritance.  The problem, he has two sons both older than Leah and he wants her to convey to them his regrets at having been such a lousy father and let them know he died a changed man.  Now!  Here's the reason that you really, really want to read this book.<br />When Pearl Cleage told us she was looking for a brother to \\"turn the boat around\\" she had Ryder Damien in mind.  A strong-willed, handsome, take-charge man who knows what he wants and goes after it.  Of course he has a few \\"soft spots\\" when people have been slinging hurtful barbs at you all your life, you get a little sensitive, but Leah is the cure for all his ills.   This book is charged with raw sexuality the pages sizzle.  Ryder is witty, charming (when he wants to be) and exciting and Leah is his equal in every respect.  What a Man!!!!  Just think you can get all this for $5.95 even less if you order from Amazon.	2001-11-02
US	49517036	R3G1C2HTHYKLII	0671028421	182174594	Breathing Room	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	MOVE THIS ONE UP ON YOUR (to be read)LIST	Patricia Elam has written a winner.  The Character development is wonderful Zadi, Moxie and Norma cannot be contained on the pages they will invade your thoughts and your heart. <br />The author explores several subjects, the handles them all extremely well.   But the one that really got my attention was the relationship between Norma and her 3 year old son Miles, Norma honestly does not feel the love and nurturing towards Miles that is expected of a mother.  It disturbs her and he feels it too.  She has no idea how to change it.  Elam explores it with such depth and sensitivity that you understand and empathize with Norma.<br />Definitely one of the best of 2001!	2001-06-23
US	49517036	R2SI87SUW3I9A3	0670896764	838594392	A Day Late and a Dollar Short	Books	5	0	1	N	N	All Hail the Queen	The highlight film is rolling and Michael Jordan is doing a 360 degree, hang time 10 minutes, from the free throw line, dunk.  Can anyone do it better? Of course not, because he simultaneously  invented and perfected it.<br />Terry McMillian has done the same with comtempory AA fiction, she forged it into the American mainstream and has never looked back.  She created a genre we did not know we were looking for and did not dare to dream might one day exist. McMillian has been imitated and emulated but like Jordan is in a class by herself.<br />In a Day Late and a Dollar Short she is back and better than ever.  Be prepared to be touched, enlightened and explore all the things that make a family what it is.  By the end of this book all I needed was a Nike contract \\"I Am Viola Price\\".  A nicer version, hopefully.	2001-02-03
US	49517036	R2Z6RA5QFT6R88	0452282209	418423294	Sugar: A Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MOVING	If this is the new face of  Black fiction we are very lucky indeed.  Sugar is a very unique story told from the point of view of a character we don't often hear from.  The \\"fallen\\" woman who lives down the street that we all whisper about and wonder what's going on, does she not have any respect for herself or any self-esteem?  Why would she allow men to use &amp; discard her?<br />Bernice Mcfadden not only gives \\"Sugar\\" a voice she allows us to feel the pain of each snub and callous word.  We are taken into Sugar's world where sex is a poor substitute for love but better than not feeling at all.<br />We are also introduced to Pearl &amp; Joe, the older couple next door.  They are the very essence of  love.  The type of &quot;forever&quot;love romance novels thrive on and the \\"new relationship books\\" insist does not exist.  But we all know that it does.  It's our mothers and fathers well into their years that still share that special smile with each other or that uncle and aunt, who forgo names substituting honey or baby instead.<br />When Sugar and Pearl meet and becomes friends you know a transformation awaits them both.<br />You will love this one.	2001-01-28
US	49517036	R2YAMIQ3ZV7PTL	1585710296	367579657	Chances (Indigo: Sensuous Love Stories)	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	CUTE	Chances is a very entertaining light-hearted love story.  It's the story of Monica (Vanessa's sister from \\"Fate\\") whose husband died in a tragic automobile accident several years ago leaving her with their three children to raise.  She has not even thought of loving anyone else until she meets Devin, and starts to feel things she never thought she would again.  She tries to resist her feelings for him but this becomes next to impossible he's always around.  He lives next door, is best friends with her sister's husband and her father treats him like a son. This is a very charming story that will warm your heart.	2001-01-28
US	49517036	R18NRA879GAT59	0553576313	682460462	If I Should Die (Mali Anderson Mystery)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mali's on the Case	Unknowingly I have read this series of novels out of sequence, I thought \\"A toast before Dying\\" was the first one, but it doesn't matter because I love the series.  Mali Anderson former cop now neighborhood \\"Protector\\" is a wonderful addition to the genre and Grace Edward's is a gifted writer and wordsmith.  <br />I can only compare her style to that of Walter Mosely, which is the ultimate compliment because he is phenomenal.  Edwards is able to convey a myraid of thoughts with just a few words but the feelings they evoke never miss their mark.  This mystery starts with the attempted kidnapping of a member of the Harlem Chorus and the death of the director, who is an old friend of Mali's.  She witnesses the incident and is able to save the child but arrives to late to help her old friend.  Now she is determined not to rest until she finds out who is behind his senseless murder and enlists the help of her new boyfriend and hunk Detective Tad Honeywell.  Well girl does not live my adventure alone and Honeywell is just what Mali needs and deserves.  The police are investigating but Tad has been taken off the case and the new detective assigned is not very dedicated to getting results.  <br />Mali has her work cut out for her on this one as clues point her to the seedy side of Harlem and to dealings with people we would rather believe did not exist.	2001-01-14
US	49517036	R3GT7CUYGAAWHD	1575666073	965306791	God Don't Like Ugly	Books	5	15	16	N	N	RIVETING	Mary Monroe is a master storyteller.  God Don't Like Ugly has so many sub-plots and characters that it is a thoroughly enjoyable and engrossing story.  The basic plot revolves around a young girl, Annette who is being sexually abused by the live-in border Mr. Boatwright.  Sexual abuse is a horrific crime no matter how you look at it but Mary Monroe captures the dichotomy of the relationship between Annette and Mr. Boatwright in a manner which few could.  It would have been easy to paint Boatwright as an evil, old peg leg with no redeeming value but in reality life is not that black and white.  Instead she shows how he cooks for the family, takes Annette to the market with him, to the movies and goes with the family to church and at times is kind to her, and then at night destroys it all by making Annette his victim. <br />But that is only part of the story.  We have Rhoda Nelson, the beautiful, intelligent daughter of Mr. &amp; Mrs. Nelson, the biracial Undertaker and his beautiful but fragile wife.  Mr. Nelson's mother who is white lives with the family as does his half brother, Uncle Johnny. The Nelson's while they appear the very picture of  a upwardly mobile black family with their big beautiful house, extravagant furnishings and fine cars have more than a few problems of their own. <br /> You'll become enraptured in Annette and Rhoda's lives because they certainly have stories to tell, but save a little of yourself because there are a few others in this small circle of  residents in the more affluent part of town who have stories they would like to tell you.  Now Scary Mary, the local Madam has a few things she would like to share with you about herself and her 2 daughters and maybe even a little about the girls who \\"work\\" for her. Then Caleb and his son Pee Wee want to introduce themselves and share with you all the gossip you can handle.  Annette's beautiful and hard working mother has a lot to tell you about life and how to go on no matter what.  A few others will want to stop by .  Uncle Carmine, Mr. Nelson's best friend and benefactor; Judge Lawson, Annette's mothers employer and \\"protector\\" who believes in looking out for his \\"girl\\",Uncle Johnny will stop by, if he's not in jail and Aunt Lola will stop by and drop a little knowledge.<br />As we follow Annette and Rhonda lives from childhood through adulthood others will introduce themselves, so be gracious and invite them in.  You're guaranteed a riveting and entertaining time.	2001-01-13
US	49517036	R1QVXDWV1ROA4J	0595002021	49175113	Indigo	Books	5	11	11	N	N	HAUNTINGLY BEAUTIFUL	Before reading Beverly Jenkins, I was a snob when it came to Romance Novels.  Wouldn't entertain the thought of reading one.  Now she has a fan for life.   I've read all her other novels with the exception of Vivid, which I cannot find, so my expectations are pretty high. Indigo surpasses them all.  Long after you've removed the book mark and closed the back cover this story will haunt you.   The thing that makes Beverly so great is a combination of lyrical writing(the dialog between character is witty and the word-play between lovers is both spirited and lusty), incredible storylines, and characters that live and breath.     <br />Hester Wyatt (Indigo) is the type of woman, we all strive to be, strong, honorable, intelligent and committed to causes she believes in.   Galen Vachon is her soulmate, he is without a doubt the most handsome, determined and passionate character ever.  Together they find love, discover passion and the rewards of shared commitment.<br />This is a must read!	2000-12-21
US	49517036	R2K8TC6U6NCT45	1575665972	702863233	If I Could	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Engrossing	I enjoyed this book.  It's the first time I've read a book by this author but it won't be the last.  This is an engrossing tale of 3 women, friends since college, outwardly they all appear to have it all.  Great jobs, homes, education, loving and concerned husbands, but each is unhappy of tormented in some way. Regina is the character I could most identify with.  No one understands why she's unhappy not her husband, mother or her friends.  It is apparent to everyone that her husband Raymond loves her very much, but they have no idea that Raymond does not value her as a person, ridicules her ambitions and ideas and can only be happy with her when she's the perfect Suzy homemaker.  She is also disenchanted with her job as a journalist..........<br />Toni the social worker capable of listening to, seeing and solving everyone else's problems but those of her family.  As Regina so aptly tells her \\"her own backyard\\".  Until she realizes she's lonely and her family is lost to her.  To avoid the pain she seeks solace somewhere else.<br />Victoria....Bank VP, the ultimate success has everything up to and including the (trophy) husband.  Yet she still feels the stings of being \\"too dark\\" and \\"not good enough\\".  Hard enough to hear from the outside world but tragic when the biggest culprits are your own family.  So she's determined to be as successful and put together as possible.<br />This is a page turner, I couldn't put it down.  Practically read it in one sitting.  I had an<br />emotional interest in what would happen with each of them, their stories are interesting and unpredictable.  She also avoids clichés and the new found solution of giving up on marriage when the going gets a little tough.  Unless of course it turns out to be unsalvageable.<br />You will want to pick this one up.	2000-12-09
US	49517036	R3G4KQSUK8MAJF	0451199472	560440850	Sheer Necessity	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Okay, A Little Slow	This is the second effort from Sharon Mitchell.  I've heard from others that it is much better than &quot;Nothing But The Rent&quot;.  She really does a few good things here but most we've seen and heard before.<br />This is an okay read.  I'm giving the third star for her efforts to bring something new to the story.  Namely, the relationship between Toni, our central character, and Chris, her gay friend and co-owner of Sheer Necessity, she portrays him without making him a &quot;Miss Thang&quot;.  Their relationship is endearing and geniune. She also handles Chris's and Marhsall's relationship in a very classy manner.  She does a good job with Toni's daughter and nephew Jesse.  They are honest to goodness children and not those cardboard cutouts we see in so many books and movies.<br />This had the potential to be a very good book but with too many unresolved plotlines and long stretches where nothing was really happening we're left to wonder if there is 1/2 a manuscript out there somewhere.<br />I really do not wish to give away the story but all thoughout the book it is hinted that Lynn's ,Toni's sister,husband was prone to violent mood swings, exercised all the time and was developing huge muscles.  You're thinking the same thing I was thinking Steroids.  It is never mentioned again after Lynn leaves him.  He never gets help nor is their situation ever resolved. There are many examples of this type of omission.  The most glaring happens with the sister Joy, she is abused as a child, we are given the information early in the story but no-one in the family is aware of it.  When she finally confesses to a family member it is anti-climatic.  I think she spents one page on this.  Does she ever share this we the rest of the family we have no idea?  <br />If you've read just about everything else.  This could be a good timewaster.	2000-12-02
US	49517036	R14M9R6KHKCUSA	0380798654	77074050	The Taming of Jessi Rose	Books	5	7	9	N	N	INCREDIBLE	Beverly Jenkins is in a class by herself.  I have read 3 of her novels, Through the Storm, Night Song and The Taming of Jessi Rose.  They are all absolutely wonderful.<br />*I could tell you that they are great historical accounts of the lives of Black and Native Americans in the late 1800's and early 1900's. also * I could tell you that they are heart warming, sensual, innovative Romances full of adventure and witty dialogue. or * I could tell you that they are stories you never imagined existed, that these men and women created lives for themselves that were full of love &amp; hope despite the turmoil and oppression around them.<br />But honestly nothing I can tell you will prepare you for the depth to which these novels will affect you.  You must read them to fully understand.  I have ordered Always and Forever and Topaz and can't wait for them to arrive.<br />PS.  Most of Ms Jenkins books are being re-printed and are available in your local bookstore and on line services.	2000-11-07
US	49517036	R2CX5AUC3G06ST	055358006X	701522620	Dreams in the Key of Blue	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Check you windows and doors.	Dr. Frank Lucas hates technology and hates the FBI (thinks they're a waste of money and resources).  His first day on the job as professor of a seminar on Gender and Violence he decides he  hates the administrator.  So why do I like this guy so much?  Simple, he's a brilliant profiler who does not let the occasional breaking of a law stand in his way and he gets the job done.<br />Seemingly as soon as Lucas hits town the murders start.  First 3 young women are found murdered in their apartment off campus.  The killings appear ritualistic.  The local Sheriff knows of Lucas's reputation and asks for his help.  So Lucas focuses on the case.  Enter the FBI and Lucas has a new enemy and someone else to hate in the person of strait laced-strictly by the book FBI agent Karen Jasper and the feelings mutual.  Actually, she starts it.  <br />After a few strange occurrences in and around Lucas's home not to mention that a serial killer he helped put away has escaped from prison.  He begins to wonder if the killer's mission is personal.<br />This is scary stuff and Philpin makes it more realistic by siting actual cases and killers.<br />My only complaint is that I think he tips his hand a little too soon and gives us a few too many clues. I like for the killers identity to shock you (like that moment in the Sixth Sense when Bruce Willis's wife drops the wedding band and you realize you were given the clues all along and missed them).  But I digress.  Still a very good read.	2000-10-21
US	49517036	R1FB4J7H5O0N94	059509659X	870923458	Those Who Trespass Against Us	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A good first novel	The first chapter details a bank robbery by a Black Nationalist group.  During the robbery 3 people are killed, a bank teller, security guard and the Jewish wife of one of the Nationalist.<br />(20 years later)<br />We meet 20 something Rachel Mooreshelton , a young Angela Bassett look alike, and speech writer in Congressman's Ray Jackson's office.  Rachel an idealist who believes that social ills can be solved by committed politicians is a staunch supporter of the well admired Congressman.<br />The Congressman's office is turned upside down when one of Rachel's colleagues the Chief of Staff of the office is murdered.  The police want this wrapped up quickly and arrest a street person for the murder insisting it was a blotched robbery attempt.  But  Rachel and a co-worker are assigned the task of clearing out the dead man's office and find some very disturbing documents.  From there things really get rolling.  Rachel finds herself involved in uncovering long kept secrets people are willing to kill to keep secret.  Rachel has a secret of her own a boyfriend who's a senatorial aide in the enemy camp.  <br />As more deaths occur Rachel tries to put the pieces together to find out what's going on.  She has  strong motivations.  Friends and acquaintances are turning up dead and she has become a suspect.	2000-10-21
US	49517036	RD4N5TYLPAAGH	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Believe what you've heard.	How did one so young, get so wise?  This is a constant thought while reading White Teeth. This is a phenomenal novel.  The character development is superb. No easy task when your characters are as quirky, complex and entertaining as Archie and the gang.  Everyone knows these characters but few have ever written about them.  Zadie Smith covers so much ground with this novel, she deals with loyalty, religion, war, identity and obsession all in a very different and entertaining story.  This book is nothing you expect(except a great read), but everything you want in a novel.	2000-10-14
US	49517036	RDNCGLCAUM8LM	0345425529	415512987	Waiting in Vain	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	WOW!	Colin Channer has written the most beautiful, moving and prolific novel.  I hesitate to call it a love story, although I certainly is, because it is no much more.  It is romantic, erotic, sensual and thought provoking.  He introduces us to an eclectic cast of the most interesting characters.  Then he takes us on an excursion from the U.S. to London, Jamaica and back; and entertains us royally along the way.  Colin gives a voice to many of the thoughts that we all have had but could not put into words.  At one point Fire, a main character is having a discussion with his lady and she asks if he likes hip-hop.  He responds that he likes it a little but will not purchase it to keep in his personal space because\\" hip-hop is the only black music that doesn't have a healthy engagement with women.  It is not self assured when dealing with women\\"  and I thought that's it.  That's exactly what bothers me about it. If you think romance and more importantly love is \\"a second-hand emotion\\". Read this book.	2000-10-14
US	49517036	REKG45M37UU6J	0684871440	830045435	Blind Ambitions: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As good as it gets	Lolita Files is a true talent in very sense of the word. One of the things  I really love about her work is that her characters are realistic. She has  this great ability to make you care about characters that (like all of us)  are flawed.  She avoids the pitfall of painting people as good, bad, evil  or indifferent.  Instead she shows us their human failings and dares us not  to understand and love them anyway.<br />I had a difficult time putting this  book down (it was 1:00am and I had to go to work the next day).  I'm on  page 240 and there are about five or six unresloved storylines,and I check  there are only 283 pages in the book.  I'm thinking there is no way she can  tie this up in only 43 pages.  By now I think I know where everything is  headed and I'm really dreading some of the things that are going to happen  to some of the characters.<br />But Ms. Files reminds me that I am the reader  and she is master of this storyline, and she ends this one beautifully and  unexpectedly. <br />One small complaint, why so short?..Is there a rumor out  there that readers don't like long books?  Not True.	2000-08-21
US	49517036	R31KI6SVYZIZ6Y	0345420845	35304878	Green Money (Starletta Duvall mystery)	Books	5	7	7	N	Y	JUDITH SMITH-LEVIN HAS DONE IT AGAIN!	This is the third installment of this series and I have loved each one.  <br />Green Money is an intriguing murder mystery which keeps you guessing  until the end. It is full of great characters and it unravels slowly and  deliciously.  Starletta Duvall and her partner Dominic Paresi and the best  duo in a very long time.  They're both smart, witty and sexy.<br />I love  mysteries but one of my complaints about the genre is that while the crimes  and plots surrounding them are very interesting; the lives of the sleuths  are usually very boring and mundane.  NO SO IN THIS SERIES.  Starletta's  love life sizzles thanks to Mitchell Grant (ever heard of a sexy  pathologist?). Be still my heart.  What a character Mitchell Grant is  gorgeous, sensitive, sexy and rich to boot.<br />Judith, I can't wait for the  next one.	2000-08-08
US	49517036	R2Z7CZPJ0541UX	0345426045	469268443	Cookie Cutter	Books	5	0	0	N	N	What a Find	This is one of the best books I've read in a while.  Now, I'm on a mission to introduce it to as many of my friends and family as possible.  Every character in the book is fully developed and you understand their  motivations for their actions.  What a great idea for a book and Mr.  Sterling handled it beautifully.	2000-07-26
