US	49511895	R1IW8A92Y397WL	1411402197	861756687	Sonnets (No Fear Shakespeare)	Books	4	7	31	N	N	Strange Love	Shakespheare considered his poems works of art and his plays merely entertainment, as I remember from some source in the past. So taking them seriously as works of art, I will say that they aren't bad, although the word order is jumbled up to get the rhymes right , I would suppose.  This often makes it hard to read the poem aloud and have it roll off the tongue. I've been trying to used to the Elizabethan English for quite some time now, but still I am little uncomfortable with it. He has the awkwardness of John Dunne, in my opinion.  <br /> <br />I will have to say that the poet is a bit queer with all this talk of the beauty of this youthful man he so passionately loves. I suppose a queer theorist would have a field day with what I would consider his neurotic obsession. Nonetheless, the poems have some pathos about the passing of time and how it will destroy the beauty of this young man. The poet seems to be like an old queer admiring the beauty of a young man that he cannot keep faithful to him. He encourages the youth to have children in the first few poems so that he will make a beautiful copy of himself for posterity to enjoy, and so he will not go to the grave wizened by time.  The first few poems are a highpoint along with the poems in the in the sixties which have ruminations again about aging, death, and decay, and the destroying of youth by these three, which is one of poets' best themes-- we don't want any cheery, frivolous escapist poetry, but poems that expresses our rather sad, pathetic, little lives where even the best and most favored are eventually devoured by death and decay. Escapism is the realm of entertainment, facing harsh reality head-on is the realm of great art.   <br /> <br />But is the poet really homosexual, or bi-sexual, or straight, or does it matter? Perhaps he has a higher aristocratic love that we cannot understand. In the latter poems, a woman becomes the object of discussion, but this woman is sometimes false to the poet and he doesn't seem to have the same enthusiasm for her as the young man.  <br /> <br />Spark Notes has come out with a series of No Fear Shakespheare works translated into modern English and I liked the translation very much. The translator was able to convey the subtleties of the poems such as gentle wit and forlorn gloominess in a poetic fashion, but the translation is not done in poetry. I would have liked to have a brief critical summary of the themes of the poems and who they may have been written about. I hope they end up translating all the plays, not just the popular ones, so my Skakespheare project won't stall when I have to read them solely in the Elizabethan English. Afterall, Shakespheare deserves such attention, right? He's supposedly the best, but I`m impudent and skeptical.	2005-09-23
US	49511895	R1PR0XL7YX1QGE	1930859619	478879292	The War Against Men	Books	4	35	39	N	N	One From The Old School: Texas Aggie Agitprop	Hise has written a book mainly appealing to Christian conservatives and he does a fair amount of scripture quoting from the \\"inerrant word of God\\", as he puts it, especially in regard to women being submissive to patriarchal authority. (\\"The Lord thy God hath commanded it, woman!\\") I suppose his targeted readership will take this seriously, but not the majority of Americans, which a merely cultural Christians, superficially acquainted with Biblical teachings and having a lot of contradictory beliefs mixed up with them. It takes more than Bible quoting to prove your points to the unconvinced and unconverted and therefore I don`t expect his book to reach the wider population, especially men who live life on their own terms. The book is disappointing as far as not being a book that will get men's issues more into the spotlight because of its strong biases. I also get the impression that Hise wants to get women back into the kitchen for the most part, the \\"cook, clean, kids\\" women of yesteryear who I find to be rather boring, but certainly safer bets for stable marriages than all those fascinating liberated flappers who make good dates, but often terrible wives who aren`t interested in motherhood.    But if you can get past the crusty conservatism and the Bible quoting, he actually has some valid things to say about the war against men. It is hard to find the perfect pundit, while I found Hise to be too conservative at times, I often found the author Warren Farrell, who covers the similar territory, too liberal with all his talk of developing a gender transition movement and promoting androgyny. Although I think Farrell is more of an expert since he has made gender issues his life's work.     Hise had had some friends who were victims of \\"she-devil incorporated\\", as I put it, and he began pondering a question I bet would be \\"Could it be that women are running a vast conspiracy against men?\\" He found out that his friend's misfortunes were more than isolated incidences.Probably the most dangerous weapon against men is the legal machinery of the state which can mow any man down at any time with a woman's false accusations. The legal system is biased towards the females and an accused male may find that certain evidence will not be allowed in which will help defend his case. He is generally seen as guilty already and not given enough means to prove he is innocent. Behind every women you're dealing with is this legal machinery of the state which can invade your personal relationships at any time.     Hise has a problematic chapter in which he describes the increasing crime and social decay in America over the decades and then loosely attributes this to the rising power of women. I think he would need to have a more direct connection than that, so the argument was weak. Indeed, some parts of the book veer off into the conservative political agenda and get off the topic of his thesis; you can either call this method comprehensive or diffuse.     Commenting on the work force, Hise says that women's gains are men's losses as far as who gets the jobs, the promotions, and money to start up businesses. Women also can get help through affirmative action programs, quotas, and a plethora of women`s organizations, supporting the hiring and promoting of women even if they are not as qualified as men for diversity's sake. When women enter into institutions they often start making them pro-female and anti-male. A diverse workforce is also a divided workforce so watch what you say and do, so you won't get sued. Don't get too chummy or relaxed. Hise mentions the work place affairs that happen when men and women work together and how this can break up your marriage. He generally advises to keep wives out of the workforce, if at all possible. Communists and other left leaning societies are often eager to get women in the workforce to replace the roles of men while encouraging them to abandon their roles as women and let the state, the schools, and society raise the kids to properly indoctrinate the rising generation.       According to Hise, women have gone too far in the military. Being only about as half as strong as men, they have entered into positions in the military where combat will be involved. He has concerns and shows some evidence that they are not qualified for these positions and may abandon their duties when duty calls. Also, physical training for women is not as strenuous as it is for men because they are not strong enough to be combat soldiers. Even in this most masculine of institutions, the radical feminists have pushed their reality-denying agenda and women follow along. Hise wonders how strong the military will be once it's time to stop playing soldier.     The lowering of standards to supposedly help women doesn't just happen in the military. Females score lower on math and science on standardized tests so the radical feminists have just suggested getting rid of these hard problems or placing more value on language skills so that there will be equality of results.     According to Hise, women also spend a lot of energy defeating the will of men at voting booth with their \\"liberal\\" anti-male agenda. Politicians come along who will pander to women, who vote more than men. They also often want to pass gun-control laws, even though it's been proven that there is less crime when people are allowed to defend themselves with guns. Some legislation has been passed over the years that discriminates against men.     Hise suggests that men get their own organizations such a national organization for men to counteract all the biased propaganda that comes out women's organizations such as N.O.W. and to start regaining the power that they have been losing over the decades to women. To him, society just runs better with men in charge and women mainly doing the important job of raising good, well-adjusted children.	2005-09-14
US	49511895	RZEAV51CB3YI	0874774241	314200259	The New Drawing on the Right Side of the Brain	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Drawing It Like You See It	Edward's book explores her theory that we draw best by accessing the right brain, the part of the brain that recognizes forms. If one can get into a trance like state of heavy concentration when drawing then you know you're working with your right brain. You begin to draw things as they are seen, not as your left brain tells you. The way some of lines go are illogical to it and are a better task for the right brain.    <br /> <br />The main challenge of drawing is to see things properly and then to draw  them in detail correctly on paper. The beauty in the drawing is bringing out all the details.  The beginning artist may have trouble doing drawing correctly  because of the left brain which labels things quickly without looking closely at them and then wants to move on. The left brain rebels against having to see and draw the details of an object accurately since it already has made up a language symbol system for objects that simplifies the object into a stick figure,  for instance. The author Edwards tries to get us out of this simplistic symbol system by accessing the right brain, bypassing the left brain's \\"named it, now drop it\\" stereotypes with exercises such as turning a drawing object upside down, so the left brain will not recognize it and move on. The right brain will do such a task because it deals better with spacial relationships and details. Drawing may help people develop the right brain since it isn't exercised much in the school system.  <br /> <br />The rest of the book covers the basics of drawing well. There are exercises for developing the ability to see lights and shadows, to see spacial, angular,  proportional, and distance relationships properly, to see edges clearly, and to see negative space. I thought the exercises helped me to estimate angles better and draw one line correctly by looking at another nearby. Seeing the importance of negative space was also a good lesson since the composition must come together as a beautiful whole and the negative space holds and supports the main object and can't be neglected. Drawing the negative space first is also a good way to make the positive space look right. After doing the lessons I got into the habit of seeing what the lessons covered such as the gradations of light and shadow on an object. The perspective lesson was the hardest; it still can be difficult to get the perspective right. I ended up with a drawing that looked like I was looking down on the scene instead of seeing it straight on. But it's nothing that daily drawing can't overcome. If only I wasn't so lazy, apathetic, and uninspired sometimes. Let someone more talented do the drawing! <br /> <br />The main benefit of the accessing the right-brained artist's way of seeing is that it makes one appreciate the beauty of your surroundings and makes homely objects appear interesting, at least on the drawing paper. Drawing dowdy, flabby, wrinkly, out of shape people and telephone poles and industrial equipment  in the dawn's skyline can at least be an interesting and enjoyable experience once you discover the off kilter oddity and complexity of the composition, sitting out there just waiting to be drawn. A good artist can make just about anything appear romantic. And drawing beautiful things makes you appreciate the beauty even more, discovering every line and detail coming together into a complete whole.    <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-08-27
US	49511895	R6OEC4TN11102	0964627116	257349376	Smile Method - How to Avoid Gum Surgery and Dentures	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Smiley Smile	Gardiakos is somewhat obsessed with taking care of his teeth through the smile method that he has developed down to the last pre-caution and detail. And who blames him? When you are sitting in the dentist chair, hearing the bad news about your teeth and gums and how much it's going to cost you, you wish you had taken better care of your teeth. Gardiakos got himself in a similar situation by going through his twenties not going to the dentist, figuring that brushing once a day would be adequate. That reminds me of someone I know most intimately of all. But as time went on he developed severe gum and tooth problems that brought him to the edge of surgery. He decided to find out if he could avoid it by reading up on alternative ways to take care of his teeth. Many of his ideas are conventional--flossing, irrigating with a water pik, and brushing with electric and standard toothbrushes. He also recommends mega dosing with vitamin C for gum health. His most unconventional idea is to use a vitapik to shoot hydrogen peroxide heavily diluted with salt water into the deep gum pockets that have formed from periodontitis. If that doesn't work with an infection, he uses antibiotics. He seems to be have been successful in keeping his teeth and gums in stable health this way and able to avoid surgery. He recommends you get an open-minded, democratic dentist who will help you to follow his plan and answer all your \\"annoying\\" questions about the condition of your teeth and gums. He has some questions that you must ask your dentist.  <br /> <br />I found that brushing with heavily diluted hydrogen peroxide is a great way to clean your teeth and find it much easier to floss after doing so. I've noticed that I can smell a little peroxide on my breath from time to time, but he doesn't recommend that you brush with it everyday. I do not plan to follow his plan to the T since my problems aren't as severe, but I'm always looking for some good dental tips. His book reads like an instruction manual in outline style. It was little boring to read, so I read it bit by bit, but it's not a long book. He also has a handy summary of the method on one page and quick list of what to eat and not eat for the benefit of your overall health. <br />	2005-07-30
US	49511895	R2OOUEQA9E5HXN	0960892834	177830184	The racial compact: A call for racial rights, preservation, and independence	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exploring the Concept of Racial Rights	Richard McColloch has written a depressing social analysis against the dogma of our time--the racial nihilism of anti-racism. He states that Northern Europeans, or Nordics, as he calls them, have a limited capacity to mix with other races without destroying their genotype and themselves as a people because of the recessive traits of their genetic makeup. I get the impression that if the trend of multi-racialization of Nordic homelands does not reverse within twenty years, Nordics will be the \\"living dead\\",  not having enough people to sustain themselves as a people. McColloch does a good job of showing us what the consequences of following racial nihilism will be. McColloch thinks such nihilism is immoral since it does not care if Nordics are destroyed by the process of multi-racialization. He compares it to what he calls the immoral racism of supremism which seeks to dominate or eliminate other races.  Both viewpoints have a tendency to devalue or destroy other races. Both are destructive extremist viewpoints of either racism or anti-racism. He considers such anti-racism to be an over-reaction to past wrongs of immoral racism.   <br /> <br />McColloch's middle ground between the extremes is moral racism, which seeks to separate the races into their own homelands where they can breed their own kind indefinitely. Each race respects the racial rights and homeland of the other by not coming into their territory to invade or interbreed with the other race. He has an idealistic, if somewhat unrealistic vision for the future, hoping that races will stop taking advantage of one another by freeloading, making war, or subverting one another. Humanity would have to make a giant leap morally in a short time for Nordics to be saved.  Also, as McColloch admits, the ease of worldwide travel and communication has broken down barriers to intermixture, probably more so than political propaganda, I might add. There is also the problem of getting people to move away from some place they may not want to leave.  <br />  <br />McColloch's racism is based on the love of his own race and not hatred of others. He states that others should not take offense that a race wishes to separate from another to preserve their type. For Nordics only, at this time, it is the option of separate or die. Other races are not similarly threatened.  <br /> <br />McColloch critiques new age gnosticism, which states that this world is an illusion and therefore this life is not important and Christian dualism that states this life is inferior to the afterlife and therefore only salvation is important. Both beliefs support racial nihilism by pretending that race is not important or worth preserving. New agers also follow the idea that we are all one and wish for a future with one amalgamated race. This supports one worlders who want one worldwide race,  government, and religion. McColloch also criticizes conservatives who want to preserve Western culture, but don't want to preserve the race that created it.   <br /> <br />McColloch supports true diversity that preserves itself, not diversity which is a stepping stone to amalgamation. McColloch is a racial preservationist seeking to preserve Nordics, the same way environmentalists want to preserve a type of owl. That a certain race exists is reason enough for it to go on living. He does not consider his racism Nazism; although he states that Hitler was right in supporting legitimate German racial rights, but was wrong in taking other races' lands.     <br /> <br />He even wants to split up the white race into different homelands in America-- into a Nordic homeland and Mediterranean homeland for other whites. Mixing with these other whites would destroy the Nordics eventually, through the slow genocide taking place now. Demanding Nordics share their space with other races is asking them to commit genocide against themselves. McColloch thinks Nordics should act to preserve themselves now and stop hating themselves for past wrongs that they alone are supposedly guilty of, as stated by a distorted history taken out of context.  Part of that preservation involves getting our birth rate above replacement level. Our problem is under-population, unlike other races who have over-population. <br /> <br />McColloch argues brilliantly and I was impressed with his reasoning. It was upsetting to read though. I kept saying to myself that our destruction should not be happening! I was frustrated that nothing is being done on a large scale to remedy this problem and that most people aren't informed about it. <br /> <br />It was the intention of our forefathers like Lincoln and Jefferson to free the slaves and then give them their own homeland, according to McCollough. He says the Civil War was fought to stop the expansion of slave territories, but even abolitionists such as Harriet Beecher Stowe advocated a homeland for the former slaves and Nordic homeland for whites.  <br /> <br />Up until 1890, this was primarily a land settled by Nordics, so to state that this is a nation of various immigrants does not hold water historically. The melting pot ideology came about when other Europeans such as Jews arrived. This kind of ideology our ancestors would have considered un-American, even if it is propagandized as being American today.  <br /> <br />The next several years may be our last chance to save ourselves as Nordics, since even Western European countries are experiencing high levels of alien immigration. McColloch states that our right to preserve ourselves trumps the right of others to live in our homelands. Even the UN states that it is unethical to run an ethnic group out of their own territory, which is what this immigration is doing. We must do what our ancestors intended to do, but did not accomplish.  McColloch explains that patriotism is properly understood as loyalty to one's tribe, not to a country, government, or ideology. This book shows that although a majority might believe in something, like our current racial policies, it can be wrong. McColloch has a grand vision, but it's almost a pipe dream, since it seems almost like a great and noble lost cause. <br />	2005-07-15
US	49511895	R2ESSYCDN6SHA	0759609330	684362659	The Fame of a Dead Man's Deeds: An Up-Close Portrait of White Nationalist William Pierce	Books	4	30	36	N	N	Inside the Mind of a Violent Revolutionary	Robert Griffin has done a thorough job of profiling the radical white nationalist Dr. William Pierce. Even Pierce himself questioned whether he had done enough to have a biography written about him, but Griffin has an interest in fringe groups and spends a lot of time covering Pierce's intellectual influences and who Pierce has influenced, as opposed to what Pierce has done. Like a lot of left or right wing extremists, Pierce often advocated the violent overthrow of what he thought was a corrupt order.<br /><br />Pierce, who is now deceased, would often nurture his violent anger towards those who changed the country during the sixties--jews, blacks, communists, and liberals. This dark side of Pierce was well represented in his two pulp fiction books, The Turner Diaries and Hunter, which dwelled upon getting violent revenge against what he saw as a corrupt government, liberals, race-mixers, jews, and blacks. Timothy McVeigh loved the Turner Diaries for its anti-government message and had a quote from the book among other anti-government quotes from other mainstream sources with him when he was arrested. His connection with Pierce and white nationalists was tenuous.<br /><br />An earlier violent white nationalist, Bob Matthews, was a member of Pierce's organization and was heavily influenced by the Turner Diaries. He and his compatriots began robbing porno shops and Brinks trucks to finance the revolution. Eventually, he died in a shoot out with a SWAT team. Pierce liked Matthews for being a manly man of action, but advised him that he shouldn't start a revolution before its time, during the education stage.  Pierce was somewhat disappointed with the novels because he could still not bring in the professional class of people he wanted with his action-filled pot-boilers. Pierce believed that violent revolution was the only way to achieve what he wanted, a white ethno-state.<br /><br />Pierce was a smart type of racist that was on the fast track to becoming a full professor in physics, but he began reading about racial topics during the upheaval in the sixties and decided to dedicate his life fully to saving the white race from dispossession. He was heavily influence by G. B. Shaw's play Man and Superman, coming away with the idea that we, as the white race, should focus on improving ourselves, not merely enjoying ourselves, collectively and individually. Pierce decided to \\"serve the life force\\" completely in fanatically pursuing his white activist goals after reading Shaw`s play.<br /><br />Another interesting influence on Pierce was William Gayley Simpson, who became a missionary Christian helping the poor after reading about the life of Saint Francis of Assisi, but after several years of the Lord's work, decided that conditions of the poor could not be improved unless human quality was improved. If human quality is good, the environmental conditions of their living space will be good, if the quality is bad, then the conditions will be bad, despite all help to improve it. Such eugenic philosophies resonated with Pierce's own thinking.<br /><br />Pierce's weekly social analysis given out over the internet was insightful as far as pointing out the racial double standards of modern western society, which Griffin presents parts of.<br /><br />Pierce stated that white-on-black crime is often reported repeatedly nationally to instill guilt in whites that they are still racist, but black-on-white crime, which is much more prevalent, is only reported locally and often the race of the victims and perpetrators aren't mentioned and it is often not charged as a hate crime.<br /><br />Pierce said that during the sixties, opponents to integration and civil rights were almost always shown on TV to be lower class angry rednecks. Higher class and better educated whites with articulate arguments against civil rights and integration were almost never shown on TV. This presentation had a way of manipulating viewers into coming to a decision guidedby the media because the viewers would be turned off by the angry redneck. It is the old political tactic of presenting your enemies as stupid.<br /><br />Pierce also stated that multiculturalism says that it is good for minorities to look out for their own racial interests and have pride in themselves, but whites are strongly discouraged to organize in behalf of their own interests and they are supposed to be ashamed of supposedly being oppressors.<br /><br />Pierce talked about how the schools don't really teach white kids about their race, heritage, culture, and accomplishments in a positive way and classic and traditional educational texts such as McGuffey Readers and Aesop's Fables have been generally been taken out of the schools, leaving white students de-moralized and rootless.<br /><br />Pierce was both disturbing and inspiring; forcing those whites who would listen to think about their future and their children`s future and what kind of society the future had in store for whites. But his violent anger had sometimes even his sympathizers calling for him to tone down his message. I'm sure he will live on in the minds of his followers for years to come, although his organization has dwindled, from what I've read, because of the leadership vacuum that occurred because of his death. Griffin does the biography right, laying down the facts cold and letting the reader decide whether Pierce was a good man or not, or something in between. This is also an interesting book on how books affect people in their thoughts and actions--for good or ill.	2005-06-15
US	49511895	R2S2U1X81SCOPG	1901240169	949343754	The Tyranny of Ambiguity: An Account of the Development of a System of Human Behaviour Analysis Called Procedural Analysis	Books	4	25	26	N	N	The Female As Enemy	Sheppard's account the mating and dating scene in Amsterdam is a journey from innocence to experience.  By the looks of things at first in the city, it seems to be an easy going town where anything is possible.  Marijuana and prostitution are legal, the age of consent is 12 (sort of), and the populace is seemingly liberal. Sheppard eventually finds out that this is the ultimate \\"Womanstown\\" in which the females are all tease and no please.  Most of the sex has been commercialized and what little sex is doled out bit by bit to males who are willing to commit to long term relationship and conform to the desires of the female at all times. Women have total control of the men and how the relationship will proceed. <br /> <br />Sheppard himself is a highly intelligent eccentric rebel \\"squatter\\", who finds unoccupied dwellings owned by someone else to live in and refurbishes them to make them a livable place for him to live in. Sheppard works on medical research, computers,  and has been a recording engineer and has studied sex differences at the university. Sheppard is English.  <br /> <br />Sheppard`s interest in sex differences inspired him to examine the mating and dating scene in Amsterdam in what I would consider a quasi-scientific way. Sometimes his conclusions seem to be subjective, harsh, or extreme, but he does also has some good insights into the manipulative and exasperating behavior of the hundreds of females that he pursued for sexual relationships in Amsterdam. One of the tenet of his theories of how the sexes relate is that women want to increase the cost of sex and men want to lower it. He has been influence by Darwin and evolutionary theory, saying that women since ancient times feared child birth because it was life threatening and left her vulnerable for at least nine months. Caution was taken to secure a mate who would be around to protect her and sex was not entered into lightly. Males' sex drive is an instinct to impregnate as many females as possible. Hence, we have the great sex divide even today when many risks of previous times have been taken away. <br />  <br />Sheppard approaches many females in Amsterdam, mainly the Dutch natives and encounters incredible resistance to having sexual relations with him. In his interviews with other Dutch males, he finds out that they're not getting as much sex as they would like. The females play endless mind games such as giving out the wrong phone numbers, not showing up for agreed upon meetings, acting like they have never met Sheppard before and not responding to greetings. It is Sheppard's contention that females have an instinct that likes to keep males confused and neurotic. Like the poor Pavlov's dog, he wonders whether he will be fed or shocked, or in a male's case, will he be accepted for sex after being signaled by female or will he be treated with contempt and derision? Females will give various sexual signals to males of an ambiguous nature and then will deny that they have signaled him. It is this ambiguity that permeates a female dominated society and gives females the control over men by keeping them in a state of neurosis and susceptible to signaling.  <br /> <br />Sheppard has gone from being a feminist to a radical anti-feminist and advocates that white men of the western world get back their control over their females, who have challenged them to do so by provoking them by breaking the rules, but men have responded by giving females more power over men, which has increased the contempt females have for their men. Despite of their men's accomplishments in creating a high civilization, the women take it all for granted and are ungrateful. He makes the observation that it a mark of a high civilization to take care of its lesser members, but it is a mark of a declining civilization that lets its weaker members run that society. Sheppard comments about the ethnic cleansing of whites in the western world due to immigration and miscegenation. In Amsterdam in particular, he notices how the females have a stronger urge to take minority males of lesser status as mates willingly, while throwing up all kinds of barriers to their own men having sexual relations with them. The Dutch men smoke their pot, which Sheppard thinks is sex substitute that diffuses frustration and anger, while the immigrants gloat that they have taken their women. Sheppard thinks that the Dutch women take the minorities for partners because they are easier to manipulate, will worship the ground they walk on, and such pairings insult the Dutch men and their territorial instincts of racial solidarity, which females don't have as much.   <br /> <br />I thought some of the observations could have been flawed given that Sheppard is only one guy doing his experiments. It would actually take several guys to see if you could replicable results. I also thought that his eccentric nature, his preference for teenage girls because of their innocence, his outsider status in the society, his age of 35 at the time, his focusing on mostly attractive girls, the hyper-feminist and pro-homosexual nature of Amsterdam were some of the reasons why he was generally unsuccessful with the Amsterdam females, although he self describes himself good looking and he seems to be rather outgoing. He generally avoided females over 25 because of their greater manipulative skills and their jadedness. Sheppard also seems to be anxious to get them swiftly in the sack, so to speak. What is his purpose? Is it to be a typical modern male hedonist, using females for sex? Or is he going to engage in sex that is not null in evolutionary terms? (as he puts it) Or is he looking for love with a permanent mate to raise a family with to  keep the genetic line going? I would say much of the time he's just a hedonist, which may be turning the females off.  <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-03-21
US	49511895	R7LF5AGUXXP3O	1561709336	674444563	Power vs. Force	Books	3	24	29	N	N	Hmmm, maybe so, maybe not	The author David Hawkins has had some mystical experiences that came about without trying very hard. Once he almost froze to death in the snow, and had an ecstatic moment in which he felt one with everything and an otherworldly peace and joy. Another time he was deathly ill and asked God to help him, and the next morning he began feeling better and from then on had trouble suppressing his joy and lost all interest in egotistical pursuits of everyday life such as furthering your career or reading the news. He would also see himself in other people and saw them as wonderful beings who had forgotten that they are wonderful.  <br /> <br />But then he settled down and became interested in the world again and discovered kinesiology, a way of determining whether something is good or bad for you by testing the muscles of your outstretched arms to see if they will resist strongly for a yes or weaken with a no. Supposedly, you can also determine the energy level of a person, place, thing, or idea by this method also, but he does not exactly say how this is done. I had wished that he had gotten more specific about the goodness or badness of different books, people, and foods and so on, while listing the energy level of them also.  <br /> <br />The energy levels go from 0 to 1000 from shame, guilt, apathy, grief, fear, desire, anger, pride, courage, neutrality, willingness, acceptance, love, reason, love, joy, peace, and enlightenment.  Below 200, the energy levels are negative and weakening, above 200, they are strengthening and positive.  Courage is at 200. The world has moved up from 190 to an average of 217 in recent years, according to Hawkins. Societies like the US are probably at 300 to 350, from what I could determine from his descriptions. 85% of the world is below 200 in consciousness, but the ones above that outweigh them with their higher consciousness. Most nations are still wrapped up in the angry pride of nationalism.  <br /> <br />Results from testing often support liberalism such as the wrongness of the death penalty or the general negativity of nationalism. According to Hawkins  the test results are the truth and go beyond opinion.  Left wing and right wing tyrannies test out low. Nelson Mandela tests out high. The major religions in their beginning pure forms test out at the enlightenment level of 700 and 1000, but have degenerated to lower levels as time has gone on. Angry, judgmental, political fundamentalism tests out below 200. Fundamentalism tests out considerably lower than mysticism. Hard rock music and gangster rap tests below 200, unlike other forms of pop music. <br />  <br />The book was most interesting covering the enlightenment levels are giving some examples of how things test out in the real world. Some sections are  theoretical and the reader may lose interest in these sections. Hawkins is asking you to become a true believer in his methods. He covers the history and science behind kinesiology and the psychology academics who pioneered the work. One could say it's a new age book, but to its credit, it does offer up some support for its claims. It's not some \\"guru\\" talking to himself and claiming he's god and scribbling down his \\"divine\\" interior monologue. There is none of that silly and annoying stuff going on in this book, so I can take the book somewhat seriously and not laugh at it. One disadvantage is that you have to get a bosom kinesiology buddy to do the tests. It seems it takes two to get reliable results. I tried doing the briefly mentioned self test, but could not get reliable results. Hawkins goes over how the tests are done fairly well and what pitfalls could mess up the results. <br /> <br />One of my doubts is that sounds a little too simple and easy to figure out the truth. I think life and the world is too ambivalent, complex, and confusing to figure the truth out with a simple test. Things are often not what they seem and several of the historical figures and facts he refers to can beinterpreted negatively or positively. I'm aware of alternative history and some of the historical \\"facts\\" and figures he refers to may not be what they seem.   <br /> <br />It is hard to determine truth because people have an emotional need to believe things whether they are true or not and also clever sophists can use their rhetorical skills to make their arguments sound like the truth. This test supposedly cuts through all that. It's so easy, it takes the challenge away and feels like your cheating. Hawkins is not the first on the scene promising grand results, but I'm afraid he may leave  his followers empty handed. It's better to stay a cynic, that way you're never fooled. I read about applied kinesiology on skepdic.com and came to conclusion that this book probably should be considered interesting entertainment and nothing more than that. It's easy to get fooled by someone referring to Doctor So and So and what his results were. Many academics and seemingly intelligent people peddle pseudo-intellectual ideas.  <br />	2005-03-07
US	49511895	R116BTMQUYBTPG	0345419278	171795156	If I Ever Get Back to Georgia, I'm Gonna Nail My Feet to the Ground	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Wins Funniest Title Award	The titles of Grizzard's books are the most funny part of them. He talks in this book how he always concentrated on having a zippy title for his content so that the reader would want to read on.  This book is his life story in the newspapers and when he was growing up. I get the impression he is a anti-intellectual common man who loved his sports, tabloid people stories, pretty ladies, beer, cigarettes, and the Elvis diet.  And he especially loved newspapers. His story is not all comedy and he has many stories of his news buddies dying an untimely death. I will say that's probably due to the long hours, low pay, divorces, newsroom stress, beer, cigarettes,  traditional southern diet, and lack of sleep. But no matter, these quirky characters loved the newspapers also, so they lived a good short life.    Grizzard even went up north to Chicago in a management position for one of its papers.  It was folly though. He should have remembered that southerners don't like the north and vice-versa. He didn't like the two seasons of weather, \\"winter and the fourth of July\\", as he puts it. And he couldn't get any grits or pork barbeque. He alsos had trouble with an affirmative action hire that played the race card when he got fired for being a terrible writer and columnist who wouldn't listen to advice. There was a lawsuit and Grizzard was tarred as a racist from the south. The plaintiff won and was back in the newsroom again, although Grizzard appears to be a fair-minded, but nave  man who just wants a quality paper put out. He does make a lot of sarcastic comments about political correctness.  Ironically, it was political correctness that helped win the suit against him.    Grizzard enjoyed the first part of his career most when he worked for a new newspaper that was competing with a really bad local one in Athens, Georgia. He liked the competition of getting a scoop before the other paper did and the tabloid people stories, such as a woman getting her pet chicken stuck up ina tree. Grizzard loved the local news and didn't really care about \\"riots in South Yemen\\", as he put it. He also did a story on a police chief who threaten him with violence when he asked him about speed traps in a small community.  The extent of the story was that one question and reaction, but it got the chief fired--mission accomplished. To be a good newsman, it helps if you like making a nuisance of yourself.     But that paper got bought out by the rival, and it was on to the Atlanta Journal and then the Constitution. He met one of his heroes and then after getting to know him, found out that he was the  tyrant of news room, always ready to blame others for supposed mistakes in the sports section. Grizzard also had trouble with the printer's union that often gave some workers an uncooperative attitude towards getting things done before the dead line.  He even had someone called the Reverend, a printer who started speaking in tongues right before a deadline. This event made the paper go over the deadline. One guy died in the ever stressful printing/composing room where everyone is screaming at each other to get the paper out on time. They put his obit in second edition and carried on. After reading through it, I thought that a normal person would be disappointed about being a journalist, but no matter to Grizzard, he still loved newspapers.      This is a good book for finding out how journalism worked during the sixties and seventies. It's got some chuckles throughout, although nothing as roll-on-the-floor funny as \\"The Dog that Bit People\\" by James Thurber or as good a style as Class by Paul Fussell, those other famous satirists. Grizzard seems to make some errors in logic in the book; must have been the beer.	2005-01-31
US	49511895	RGJIH9K3O4KM9	0192129546	83053885	Race	Books	4	39	44	N	N	I Got Through It!	Baker's Race is not exactly meant for the amateur student of the \\"ethnic problem\\" , as he puts it. It has a lot of intimidating zoological terms in the book, which are often not explained. He also has a tendency to use French, German, Greek, and Latin words and quotes without explaining what he means. It is assumed you would know already. The book seems to be written for  graduate students in biology and zoology and other academics. That being said there are some interesting sections in the book that aren't too pedantic and I only gave up and skimmed through about thirty pages when Baker's scientific zeal to analyze his subject down to the minutest details  got the better of me. I preferred Rushton's Race, Evolution and Behavior over this one because of its conciseness and readability.  Both are committed to objectivity.<br /><br />One of the best sections covers pre-colonial Africa in which Baker chooses seven authors who were early explorers of Africa based on their ability to describe the societies accurately and objectively. He comes to the conclusion that S.W. Baker was the best writer of the seven because of his writing's humor and pathos and his avoidance of tedious subjects such as tribal taxes.  John Baker covers the cannibalism and the arbitrary and numerous executions that occurred in many of the tribes during the nineteenth century.  There wasn't much law or value placed on life; one motion from the king could end the life of one of his subjects. There is a recounting of executions occurring after the death of one king's mother. Slavery was commonplace in pre-colonial Africa in which other captured tribes would become slaves of the other one dominating over them. Slaves were traded among tribes also.<br /><br />Before getting into the meat of his arguments, Baker likes to define important terms. Quoting a statement from the UN saying that we are all equal because we are all of the same species, Baker goes on to try to define what is meant by the word \\"species\\". Looking at other animals in nature, such as birds, he finds that birds with very small differences usually don't mate with each other and therefore can't be of the same species ,even though they are very similar. However, he states that animals in confinement and are domesticated  become less choosy about their mates and many hybrids begin to occur. He then says that humans in civilization are the most domesticated of animals and therefore have the greatest tendency to become hybridized, much more than you would see among wild animals in nature. He comes to ambivalent conclusions as to whether we are all of the same species, mainly because it cannot be proven that hybridized types can remain fertile over many generations.<br /><br />The europids are examined fairly well. To the taxonomist, skin color is not an important factor in classifying race, so some taxon like the Aethiopids who look Negrid to the untrained eye are classified as predominately Europid by looking at the skull and other features of the body. It is in these other features that ethnic differences are determined by the taxonomist. Speaking of the Europids in Europe, they are actually hybrids of three subraces predominating in different areas: the Nordid in Northern Europe, the Alpinid in central Europe, and the Mediterranid in Southern Europe. Examples of hybrids would be the dark-haired Welsh in Britain who are Nordids with some of the Mediterranid blood of the people who settled there in early times before the invasion of the Nordid tribes like the Jutes, Angles, and Saxes who eventually mixed with them. Some of the features of the different subraces are mentioned such as the round head and stocky body of an Alpinid, as opposed to the narrow face and slender body of a Nordid.<br /><br />Bakers also examines the Jews, saying the Ashkenazi Jew that most people are referring to when they speak of Jews is closely related to the Armenians, a middle eastern Europid. There also seems to be some Orientalid blood in their lineage related to what are loosely called Arabs. There is also some unusual cases of a small percentage of people who are Jews by religion, but not related genetically to the Ashkenazim. There was a Khazar empire at one time that converted to Judaism, but their kingdom was destroyed by the Russians in the 10 century AD. They were not related to the Ashkenazi Jews of today. Baker also covers the physical features of the Ashkenazim.<br /><br />As far as the intelligence  of the races go,  Baker examines the IQ tests and the achievements of civilization of the races. He looks at whether race has created an achievement by itself or whether it has merely borrowed an idea from another race. He comes to conclusion that some Europid and Mongolid subraces have created their own civilization with the rest just borrowing or not getting to the point of civilization. He has a list of what would be an achievement that moves people from primitiveness to civilization such as whether they have invented the wheel,  higher mathematics,  language written in script referring to abstractions,  a legal system,  personal hygiene, or domestication of animals. Some Indianid races got halfway there such as the Mayans and Aztecs who had higher mathematics, but had the nasty habit of human sacrifice and cannibalism and no use of a wheel, deficiencies that kept them from being a high civilization.<br /><br />After studying the IQ test results, Baker says that Europid and Mongolids have about the same IQ, with Indianids further behind, and Negrids further still. He also does an interesting examination of hybrids of whites and blacks in the US showing that more Europid the hybrid the better they did on IQ tests.  He looks at some of the black leaders such as Dubois and shows that these were actually Europids with a small amount of Negrid blood.be some Orientalid blood in their lineage related to what are loosely called Arabs. There is also some unusual cases of a small percentage of people who are Jews by religion, but not related genetically to the Ashkenazim. There was a Khazar empire at one time that converted to Judaism, but their kingdom was destroyed by the Russians in the 10 century AD. They were not related to the Ashkenazi Jews of today. Baker also covers the physical features of the Ashkenazim. <br /> <br />As far as the intelligence  of the races go,  Baker examines the IQ tests and the achievements of civilization of the races. He looks at whether race has created an achievement by itself or whether it has merely borrowed an idea from another race. He comes to conclusion that some Europid and Mongolid subraces have created their own civilization with the rest just borrowing or not getting to the point of civilization. He has a list of what would be an achievement that moves people from primitiveness to civilization such as whether they have invented the wheel,  higher mathematics,  language written in script referring to abstractions,  a legal system,  personal hygiene, or domestication of animals. Some Indianid races got halfway there such as the Mayans and Aztecs who had higher mathematics, but had the nasty habit of human sacrifice and cannibalism and no use of a wheel, deficiencies that kept them from being a high civilization. <br /> <br />After studying the IQ test results, Baker says that Europid and Mongolids have about the same IQ, with Indianids further behind, and Negrids further still. He also does an interesting examination of hybrids of whites and blacks in the US showing that more Europid the hybrid the better they did on IQ tests.  He looks at some of the black leaders such as Dubois and shows that these were actually Europids with a small amount of Negrid blood. <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-01-22
US	49511895	R1RAB0WB2CAH1V	1931412928	544319524	Bloodline of the Holy Grail: The Hidden Lineage of Jesus Revealed	Books	3	15	19	N	N	Of the Line, But Not Divine	Gardner argues that Jesus was of Holy Grail Bloodline in this book on the Holy Grail. He gives an esoteric interpretation to Jesus'  story and the new testament, claiming that angels were merely messengers, for instance. He also claims that Jesus was drugged on the cross and then he passed out and rose again after the effects of the drug wore off. He was married to Mary Magdalene and had children by her. Jesus was special because he was of the Grail bloodline, not because he was divine, according to Gardner.     Gardner is stolidly anti-Catholic and he goes on to claim that the church with its apostolic popes is not a legitimate priesthood, but Jesus' bloodline of the holy grail should be the legitimate priest kings in this world, even arguing for a constitutional monarchy for America from the holy bloodline of the Stewarts. The Windsors seem to be an illegitimate line and are not really part of the holy grail line, who are the rightful rulers. The Holy Grail Bloodline families  have been kept from ruling by a wily church and royalty not part of the bloodline.  The church has also kept books and passages out of the Bible that would give us an unorthodox view of Christianity. Gardner seems to be constructing a conspiracy theory against yet another venerable institution, the church.     Grail line ruler-ship, he claims, involves one of service to the people, not to self, religious tolerance, and inclusion and equality of women and the feminine in religion. The Catholic Church has been involved in a conspiracy to keep the feminine aspects of God out of the Roman Church and made sure Mary Magdalene was labeled a woman of easy virtue, and not the wife of Jesus, which would make her a spiritual figure to be venerated. --So Gardner's theories are conveniently modern.     Basically, we have a turning upside down of things as we have come to know them with Gardner's expose. The Catholic Church is bad and the Knights Templar, freemasonry,  the King Arthur tale that the churchconsiders heresy are good.  The church is more of a political organization wishing to keep the populace under control with one dogma and accuses those who go against its doctrine as heretics and witches. There was a particularly interesting and compelling section in which he shows how the Roman Emperor Constantine used Christianity to unify his empire. He bought out the religion that was rising in popularity,  made himself head of the church,  appointed his own bishops, and changed some of the rituals to resemble the pagan rituals practiced by many Romans at the time. He changed the nature of Christianity and made it  more pagan and less dangerous to the establishment.  This was convincing section that sounds like real life.      Gardner does a lot of name dropping as he explains all these intricate genealogies which makes the book dull at times.  I don't necessarily believe his theories, but he does seem to have a lot of documentation which he has gotten from exclusive archives, so it`s not like we can check up on his facts.  I'm rather cool to his idea of putting Grail line monarchies on the thrones of different nations. I don't necessarily think that these kings will do the will of the people or safeguard constitutions.  From what I've read about Gardner from other sources, I don't readily trust him and  fear that he has some hidden, sinister agenda.  I just read this book to see what was going on.     I suppose some will cry that this is heresy, but usually people like that are so biased that they never bother to read anything that questions their faith for fear of losing their salvation, their friends, and the culture that surrounds and supports them and their beliefs. Trouble is, how do you know a handed down truth is true, if you never hear an argument that would test it? But you are perfectly within your rights to view the book as satanic deception to drag you into the pit of hell.  Who knows, you could be right.	2005-01-01
US	49511895	R2P49AP7SF70UD	1862048096	91577394	Genesis of the Grail Kings: The Explosive Story of Genetic Cloning and the Ancient Bloodline of Jesus	Books	4	37	41	N	N	We're The Aliens' Experiment	Gardner explains further why Jesus and the Holy bloodline of the Grail is special in this volume. The Annunnaki gods created Adam, who was the first priest king carrying more of the god's genes than the rest of us. This royal line has supposedly preserved its genetics down through time to the present day.  <br /> <br />There is an compelling section on how the Hebrew Bible is largely influenced from previous Sumerian works such as the Epic of Gilgamesh and the Egyptian Book of the Dead. There is also an attempt to explain why the Sumerian was such an anomalously advanced civilization when compared to others at the time. Gardner thinks it's because of the genetic tinkering of the gods with the human line.  <br /> <br />Gardner does an interesting analysis on the Moses story in the Bible and comes to the conclusion that he was actually the abdicated king Akhenaton, a half Hebrew, half Egyptian king deposed because of his insistence on imposing a monotheistic god on the Egyptian populace.  Various inconsistencies in the Bible are discussed and Gardner comes to the conclusion that it is a corrupted text from the older Sumerian accounts, corrupted for the religious/ political reasons of  the Jewish and Christian priesthood.  <br /> <br />Gardner stands things on their head, saying that Cain is actually the holy bloodline and not the inferior line of Seth. The Serpent in the Garden is actually the Annunaki god Enki who offers wisdom to humanity as opposed to his brother Enlil, which is the Hebrew god who wants to keep us down. Miriam is not mentioned much in the Bible, but actually she was a prominent religious leader of the Hebrews, but she was shafted by the male priesthood who wanted to get her out the Bible because she was female. Standard blasphemous stuff, you know. Gardner says that our religious beliefs are starting to change because of all the archeological documents that have been discovered which give us a different account of what we have been told traditionally.  I suppose it's easy to be fooled with the Biblical stories. People are introduced to them at a young age when their critical faculties are low.  <br /> <br />I liked this one better than Bloodline because it didn't get bogged down with a lot of name dropping and intricate genealogies, although these lines are listed and commented on some. I'm really neutral on the revelations. I suppose it will be welcomed by modernists and scorned by traditionalists in the endless chatter of society.  I don't know if it will change my personal views much. It was a mind bending trip though. There are actually other authors out there that have looked at archeological evidence and claim that the Bible is accurate, so it comes down to who you want to believe. Everyone has their clever arguments for everything.  <br /> <br />And oh yeah, I've read that David Icke has a tape out saying that this guy is nefarious Reptile alien, so who can you trust?  Maybe such accusations stem from class conflict or professional jealousy. Both authors cover similar territory and have similar views. Gardner  is high born and  Icke is well, a former soccer player/hooligan from the projects.  <br />	2005-01-01
US	49511895	R81R3X2DMUUD6	B0006F9CP8	890735991	Good teeth, birth to death	Books	4	74	77	N	N	Natural Tooth Care Without Flouride	The author Judd is a chemistry professor that has studied the effects of different chemicals on teeth. He has worked in the chemical industry and knows that fluoride is a dangerous nerve poison that can adversely affect one's health. It also prevents your teeth from re-enameling themselves. Judd is also against the dentist industry and our government which protects the status-quo, making bitter comments about how the dentists in America are part of a price-fixed cartel that does not operate on the free market to keep prices low. He says there is cheaper dentistry in Mexico.<br /><br />The author recommends using bar soap to brush your teeth and avoiding all toothpastes, even \\"natural\\" ones. He also recommends vitamin therapy by taking large doses of vitamin C, D, calcium, and lecithin with phosphate in it to keep your teeth strong. He says you should rinse your mouth out after drinking acid drinks such as fruit juice that wear teeth out.<br /><br />This is a good book for anyone wanting to learn about natural tooth care without fluoride. The book is more like a pamphlet and reads like a research report. Not a great reading experience, but it does get to the point with helpful information.<br /><br />Personally, I used miracle II soap for brushing.	2004-12-04
US	49511895	R27YMQOSFSECIK	1577311698	721592144	Life Colors: What the Colors in Your Aura Reveal	Books	3	23	39	N	N	Unproven Assertions	Having had photos of my aura taken, I thought I might learn more about them with this book. In Life Colors, Oslie does not give any evidence that having a certain color of aura will give you a certain type of personality and I think that this is a major flaw in the book. I suppose one could run a experiment by taking a picture of peoples' auras, determining their main life colors which is supposedly closest to their body, and then have them take a personality exam to see if there was any pattern as far as people having the same color with the same personality. No such exam was cited or mentioned as being conducted in the book. Since asserting that an aura color gives you a certain personality is unusual claim not known by most people, I think an author has a responsibility to provide evidence or documentation for such an assertion, however brief. <br /> <br />The book attempts to determine a reader's aura by taking a personlity exam and then matching characteristics or career interests to a certain color aura. I never could determine what color I was exactly. I suppose demanding evidence for assertions would make me a logical tan but I've never been attracted to scientific careers and I don't really have a boring bean-counting type personality; I'm capable of imagination, vision, and flights of fancy. I like music and the arts better, so maybe that would make me a combo color of yellow-tan or violet-tan?  <br /> <br />I thought some of personality colors were implausible as real personalities. Ever met a so-called Lavender who spends their time in a fantasy world and doesn't work? Author Lewis Carroll of Alice In Wonderland is given as an example, but his real job was a math professor, not exactly a career a lavender would have. I don't think anyone could survive in the real world as pure lavender, but only with some more grounded color combined with it. The book could have had more famous examples of color personalities and pictures of life color auras with diagrams on how they are determined, I might add. <br /> <br />The book goes on to cover relationships with these colors. I generally got the idea that it's a wonder anyone gets along with anyone else given the supposed eccentricies of all the different colors. There seems to be only one color you might match up with in a lot of cases. This section further confirmed my suspicions that the book is probably not accurate. Again, I would have to have evidence that a study into these relationships with these colors has been done as to how they interact with one another. No such evidence is cited, even anecdotally. Adding anecdotal stories for evidence would have at least made the book more interesting, although this would have been rather weak proof.  <br /> <br />I think you would be better off sticking to a personality analysis that has more scientific backing such as the Myers-Briggs test. Although personality categorizing, like the whole field of psychology itself often seems just like fascinating hokum to me. Such categorising seems to be a human obsession of trying to put everything up into neat tidy boxes in our messy world.  <br /> <br />This book is competently written and interesting, but leaves you no more enlightened than when you first started, only more confused and with more questions. This is an incomplete work that needs more evidence to become a definitive, memorable resource guide. I think I'm within my rights to be hard-nosed about that.   <br />  <br /> <br />	2004-11-27
US	49511895	R314QXBW9VYEYK	0952614758	440753342	I Am Me I Am Free: The Robots' Guide to Freedom	Books	4	15	22	N	Y	You May Say He's A Dreamer	This book covers Icke's personal philosophy more and the supposed evidence of the nefarious doings of some of the powerful and famous less.    The philosophy seems to be a throwback to the sixties and seventies; and Icke comes up with thoughts that seems to smack of a \\"child of the Seventies\\". (Break out your bong and John Lennon albums and this will all start to make sense, man!) He seems to be one of these romantic utopian dreamers who believes in absolute freedom and equality. I don't necessarily believe that because I believe that one can be more or less free; it is not an either/or question to me. And I don't believe in absolute equality either. So I did not resonate with what he was saying, but it is an interesting discussion about these concepts.     I particularly balked at his ideas about marraige and cursing. He seems to want the divorce laws loosened until you can finally get a drive-through divorce. \\"Oh, I'm not feeling love anymore and I have weak and selfish character. I have to get out now; forget the kids, and move on\\" is my parody of what the consequences of his thoughts would lead to. It seems no one has sense of duty or the ability to tough things out these days, so I suppose many would agree with him. But I've never been married, so I can't speak from experience.    In regard to cussing, cuss words to Icke are just sounds and we should not be offended by these sounds. We choose to be offended. While I can say that people are probably too easily offended by other things, I don't think the world needs any more nasty-mouths. I work at a place where people cuss all the time; they can't seem to express themselves in any other way. Actually, I wish I had never started cussing myself, because it seems once you start, you can never stop. It's like the \\"like\\" and \\"you know\\" words that like you know, you can never, like you know, quit saying, you know? I recommend a return to Victorian manners instead, or at least a slight return.    The problem with giving people absolute freedom is that it's  like giving people a license to kill, cheat, steal, and pollute. I definitely believe that we are all depraved worms and our righteousness is nothing more than filthy rags. People abuse the freedoms they have and you can only have freedom if you are responsible enough to handle it.     In regard to absolute equality, people who believe in such a thing deny reality when there is evidence to support that we are not all equal in ability, particularly in regard to race and gender. That sort of radical and often tyrannical egalitarianism has already been tried in communist states, and it didn't work, to put it mildly.     I found a couple of his concepts interesting though. He said that the evil doers that we denounce are actually a mirror of ourselves and if we loved them enough we could redeem them from their evil doing, fighting hatred with love. If we fight fire with fire, all we get is more fire, so we should not choose revenge as automatically as we do, when confronting evil. Since we all one, Icke states, the evil they do is a part of ourselves. --Trippy.     Regarding fear, Icke states that we should not fear things and give them energy because whatever we imagine will eventually come to us, if we think on it with enough persistence. He gives an example of how he feared dogs, and how mean dogs would come into his life while his friends who didn't fear dogs didn't have his problem. But I can also think of times when bad things happened, and I didn't think them into existence.     He also stated that our world is a virtual reality illusion in which we come back over and over as different players of different races, playing villians or heroes. --Wow, man. I'll have to ponder that!    He says that he had a spiritual transformation from an extra-marital affair and therefore he advocates at least a halfway-open marraige so that we can have similar transformations by producing the kundalini energy that we may get from a sexual encounter. And besides, why hold ourselves as separate, when we are all one? His wife seems cool with that. --That's just great, man! That is one of the cleverest excuses for infidelity that I have ever heard! I'll have to remember that one. --Maybe his wife will pick some of that energy herself or maybe something less desirable! If you could somehow get as much kundalini energy in this manner, instead of boring old meditation, and then be able to keep your wife from picking up this energy from some nasty guy, you would have a good plan.     Anyway, it was intellectually stimulating trip, man. Even though sometimes I think it's all foolery.	2004-10-04
US	49511895	R3CJERZIS4IUCP	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	The Truth Perhaps--But  Can  We Accept It?	Author David Icke continues his research in this book of world leaders who are allegedly reptile aliens committing nefarious crimes against humanity. The usual theme of the conspiracy-minded that \\"this world is not what it seems\\" is on full display with The Biggest Secret.    There is something in the book to offend everyone and even Jesus gets it. Or maybe not. According to Icke, he never existed and the New Testament was composed by a member of the  reptilian Piso family of Rome. Then somehow they were able to convert the populace from the pagan god Mithra to Jesus. The Bible, according to Icke, is a book that is to be intrepreted esoterically by secret societies in the know and literally by the ignorant public.    I found his theory of Christianity being nothing more than recycled paganism to be much more strongly documented. It seems the virgin birth, the one true god, Mother Mary, the trinity, and the god that gets sacrificed for our sins have been themes that have been endlessly repeated in other previous and present religions that have been created by reptilians to keep us in our mind prisons, manipulated by hope and fear. Of course, I must say any belief system is a mind prison, which most of us call our beloved home (may its foundations never shake).    Icke believes in a few spiritual concepts even though he is seems to profoundly against organized religions. He believes in pantheism, which espouses that everything is part of God and that we are God, I believe. By tapping into the Infinite, then we can have infinite knowledge, (differential IQ scores be damned, I would suppose). He has high hopes for the year 2012 in which he thinks our consciousness will become truly loving, and we will drop the \\"kill them before they kill you\\" paradigm that has been operating for so long.     Icke is even sympthetic towards the reptilians explaining that these beings possess the bodies of certain family bloodlines. These families raise their children abusively to shattertheir personality into multi-facets, so that they will be able to act kindly in public, and its opposite privately.     The satanic rituals in which the reptilians sacrifice children lowers the vibrations of this planet, making it easier for the reptiles to manifest and have more power, while filling humans full of fear and loathing, which is an energy they feed off of.    Particularly remarkable is Icke's claim that most, if not all our presidents are related to European royal families, who are also all related. If we have representative government, how come we keep voting the same family in all the time?      Icke is very good at interweaving different occult accounts together to give you the big picture while still going into depth about each one. He is a firm believer in equality of humankind, or at least the eventual equality, despite evidence to the contrary, I would say. Since he does not trust any institution, sometimes the book seems to fall into a \\"can't trust anyone or anything\\" nihilism. He seems to present a bleak world without heroes which is firmly in control of the intellectually superior reptilians. Many prominent people who people look up to have been reptilian, according to Icke. But he will be able to reach a different segment with his occult history because of his biases.     Much of his sources come from anonymous witnesses, victims of satanic abuse, studies of geneological records, and Manly P. Hall's history of freemasonry. I have seen some evidence of one of the reptilian lines, which I won't name, going back to Count Dracula on the MSN home page. Creepy. He names a dizzying number of names. You won't see this on the nightly news or read it in the Times, that's the secret or rather, suppressed part of it.	2004-09-13
US	49511895	R39XACEQNMAZD3	1568330952	143299866	A Nation of Millionaires: Unleashing America's Economic Potential	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Redistributing your Wealth from the Government To You	This is a nice fast read on how we should reduce government control of our money and give it back to the citizens, empowering them to make their own decisions about how their own money should be spent. The government has not been a good steward of our money as far as benefitting its citizens and Genetski mentions that only you know what is in your own best interest, not the government. The book represents the more sensible side of libertarianism.  <br /> <br />The best way for us become millionaires by the end of our working lives is to reform the pyramid scam of social security by having us invest our money in our own private retirement accounts where we would gain interest on our own investments over time. As it is now, the social security system is bankrupt and there is no money being invested for our future retirements, but we are only paying for the benefits of retirees living now. Genetski has a fair plan for what to do with retirees' benefits now. Chile and other South American countries have already achieved positive results by privatizing their social security system and avoiding the waste. mismanagement, and scams that governments inevitably create. <br /> <br />The next area that needs to be reformed is health care in which citizens should be able to have their own private investment accounts to provide for their own health care. As it is now, the government-funded healthcare system is causing costs to skyrocket and decisions about your healthcare are beginning to made by bureaucrats, not by you as a citizen. Part of being a free citizen is having the ability to make your own decisions about your retirement, education, and healthcare and not having the government decide for you.  <br /> <br />Other reforms which would help us get our wealth back from the government is privatizing education, doing cost/benefit analysis on regulations, making environmentalism market-based, and achieving tort reform in the legal system.  <br /> <br />As far as educational reform goes, Genetski proves his point that private education is cheaper and better than public education. The money sunk into public education should be given to the citizen to make their own decisions about which schools they should give their money to. Such a system would produce the excellence that competition between schools would bring. The near monopoly of public education now is giving us an inferior education at a high price.  <br /> <br />Genetski proves that even the lowest paid worker can end up a millionaire at the end of his working life, if these reforms are made. If only our government had our best interests in mind and there weren't special interests blocking our way, I suppose these reforms could be made much more quickly.	2004-08-08
US	49511895	R1FFGTTMYFF3WE	185984488X	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering, New Edition 2nd Edition	Books	5	42	56	N	N	A Study in Ethnocentrism	Finkelstein takes on the Holocaust industry with a tart-tongued wit. Reading it may make your eyebrows lift at the holocaust industry's  narcissistic focus on the suffering of the Jews, which is \\"unique\\" according those running the Holocaust industry. A lot of the shakedowns for more money for the holocaust can be seen as just one ethnic groups' way of claiming more resources and power for themselves under the guise of being good humanitarians. Most of the money taken does not go to the few survivors left but is redirected unethically to the Jewish community and to politicized and biased holocaust education. Finkelstein is concerned that the industry may be increasing anti-semitism by behaving in such a way as to confirm stereotypes of Jews as being greedy liar lawyers. He however only criticizes the Jews of the powerful holocaust industry and not Jews as a whole.     I suppose though that all ethnic groups feel that their sufferings are special in some way and are emotionally attached to them. That could be a  mitigating factor in any judgements against the industry. A lot of cries of injustice and for reparations are somewhat hypocritical since it seems all ethnic groups act amorally towards one another at times and will probably exploit the underdog group if given the chance and if they have enough power to do so. They seem to work hard to get enough power to do so. Reparations can be seen as a form of revenge.      Things weren't always this way with the nazi holocaust. Before Israel's winning of their war in the Middle East in 1967, there were better, more objective books written about the holocaust; some of which present a more universalist message that we could all learn more about ourselves from the holocaust and there wasn't much mention of Jewish suffering as being unique. Finkelstein covers some books which he thinks are valuable and one's he thinks are garbage. He accuses Zionists of using the holocaust to deflect criticism from the questionable actionsof Israel and Holocaust Industry itself. After the 1967 war, the US backed Israel as a cold war ally and gave them lots of ammunition.     Finkelstein has a leftist take on his criticism of the industry. Why don't we give reparations to African Americans for slave labor? Why don't we give reparations to the Vietnamese for tearing up their country during the Vietnam War? Why don't we include the others who were in concentration camps in holocaust memorials such as the Catholics, the gypsies, and the handicapped? Why don't we focus on what nazi gold was taken from Jews that are still in US banks? Why do we go after just the European banks? Why are certain American Jews obsessed with their victim status when they are one of the richest ethnic groups in the world? A lot of people will consider his views unpatriotic or a form of Jewish self-hating.     The reader may come away with the impression that reparations are not a good idea in any case because it brings out too many people who want to exploit the situation while not necessarily being a victim and reparation seekers tend to point fingers at people who aren't necessarily guilty of alleged past wrongs.     A lot of fraudulent literature and claims have come up over the years, which Finkelstein exposes well. He is similar to Noam Chomsky who has documented, if debatable theories about how America is an economically imperialist nation. That theme is sounded as well in the book.	2004-07-03
US	49511895	R2XCO22LN2J6LG	027597510X	292343004	IQ and the Wealth of Nations	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Applying IQ scores worldwide	The authors Lynn and Vanhanen to attempt to answer the question of why countries end up being so rich or so poor in IQ and the Wealth of Nations. Examining IQ scores worldwide, crunching the numbers, and constructing the graphs, they come to the conclusion that IQ does play an important role in how wealthy a nation will be.<br /><br />The first section covers historical speculations about why nations or poor or rich. Some thought it may be due to climate, economic exploitation, or the protestant work ethic. The protestant work ethic was one of the more plausible reasons for wealth differences since many protestants once believed that work was not just work, but their divine \\"calling\\" which they were responsible for. Hence capitalism grew faster in protestant countries rather than catholic ones in Europe.<br /><br />As far as the rankings go, the highest IQ nations are East Asian, then nations of European descent, then middle eastern, latino, south and west Asian nations, and then sub-Sahahan Africa. The highest IQ average is 107 and the lowest is in the mid-60s. The IQ averages are then combined with their present economic wealth and it is determined whether nations are performing above or below their IQ averages. Nations such as China who are just coming out of their communist centrally controlled economy stand to become more rich given their high IQ averages. It is important that a country adopt a free market economy and representative government, if they want to use the populations' IQ to the fullest. The authors think that a country with an IQ below 90 will have trouble developing a modern economy.<br /><br />Some suggestions are given on how to improve the IQs of poor nations are given at the end. Some solutions are environmental such as improving nutrition. Others are genetic, such as preventing dysgenic fertility. The authors suggest that the richer nations will have to pay out foreign aid to help the poor nations in these matters; even though from what I'veread, foreign aid often isn't effective in solving these problems. Some of these nations are corrupt, hostile, or potentially hostile, and don't deserve foreign aid, in my opinion.<br /><br />I still had a question of whether it was really desirable for every nation to have a modern economy. Or even whether rich nations should have modern economy. It seems you would use up your resources and pollute more, if we keep going the way of mass consumption. Although some nations are poor, there might be some non-economic advantages to living a more primitive lifestyle. Why try to change people who are used to that lifestyle? It might be better to alleviate poverty by not creating more mass consumption societies. These issues aren't covered by the authors.	2004-05-10
US	49511895	R1UQX3OK02327H	067944050X	520898260	Betrayal:: The Story of Aldrich Ames, an American Spy	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Why Do So Many Drunks Work For The CIA?	I picked up Betrayal on a whim and although I was initially  just casually interested, I was surprised how engaging the book was from first sentence to last.    I learned a lot about how this bureacracy worked during the time of Aldrich Ames' treason. I was amazed that hardly anyone was even fired even if they were an incompetent, lazy, dissatisfied, alcoholic misfit like Ames was. Even though Ames wasn't very good at his job, he still expected to be promoted. Amazingly, he was, even into some very sensitive areas where he could do the most damage. Ames' dissatisfaction with his job and the agency was one of the reasons he began working for the \\"other spy company\\", the KGB. He thought that all the spy games were meaningless.    Some interesting moral situations are brought up such as when a Soviet diplomat is entrapped by making him look like he is traitor to his country, when he isn't, so that he would be forced to spy for the US. Soviets who betrayed their corrupt country were praised as heroes in the US, but were executed in the USSR. It brings up questions of how loyal you should be to your country. Also, the CIA is supposed to be devious in another country, but expected to be totally honest when dealing with US government. Lastly, defectors can't be considered honest or sincere, they could still be spies. I can see how someone could end up morally warped after awhile.       The CIA didn't want to face the reality that they had a mole in their own camp working against them, so the investigation took years to pinpoint Ames. One guy did think so, but it was generally viewed as too paranoid a viewpoint, even in this place where people are paid to be paranoid. But eventually the paranoid proved to be right, which is heartening for all us paranoids out there.    The CIA looks like a bumbling bureacracy in this book, but the FBI's investigation of Ames was sometimes brilliant, sometimes bumbling. There is some amusing comments about how the two agencies don't like each other, won't share information, and live in different cultures. The Budweiser-drinking FBI is considered to be a notch below the CIA, which is filled with Bordeaux-drinking Yalies.    There is some talk at the end that maybe we should get rid of the CIA and split it up into other bureacracies. But its just talk; I've never heard of a bureacracy ever being killed off, usually it keeps growing even after such damage as the Ames incident. --The government gravy train must roll on until the whole nation implodes! There is some interesting criticism in this section about how the CIA intelligence is often worthless. Reminds me of all the intelligence about Iraq having weapons of mass destruction.	2004-04-19
US	49511895	R3GT8W6LWFYWZG	1930865538	899630309	You Can't Say That!: The Growing Threat to Civil Liberties from Antidiscrimination Laws	Books	5	18	20	N	N	America Is Becoming A Civil Rights Dictatorship	\\"Whatever happened to civil liberties?\\" one might ask after reading this book. Since liberty is probably a more valuable value than enforced fake equality, it is a good question to ask. Whether one is politically left or right, there is something disturbing to consider in You Can't Say That. But I think we will always have problems handling liberty for all, because we often want total freedom for ourselves, but often unwilling to give the same type freedom to others with clashing values due to moral judgements. In a word, we wish to control others, but have total freedom for ourselves.    Another conclusion one may come to after reading the book is the question of whether liberty can survive in diverse environment where everyone has clashing loyalties and viewpoints. One example is given of an American who put up a picture in his work space disapproving of Iran hostage situation of 1979, which offended an Iranian working at the same company.    Control from rightists usually involves cracking down on artistic freedom especially if it has sexual content. One extreme example is given in a book in which a woman sued a city government for having a nude statue of a woman in the public square. (Although this woman could have been a feminist and therefore not necessarily on the right.)    Control from leftists usually involves disapproving of any type of discrimination, such as a religious person not wanting to rent their place out to unmarried couples or people who are straight and don't want to have a gay room mate. Lawsuits are filed which encroach upon freedom of association.     As far as civil rights lawsuits go, it is easy to second guess the official motivations for the lawsuits. Is the aggrieved party really being harmed or are they just smelling the money that a successful lawsuit can bring? Although tort reform is not discussed much, the author Bernstein does approximately say that we are subsidizing hurt feelings by rewarding money to the overly sensitive, which increases sensitivity and more frivolous lawsuits. --And let's face it, it's easier to win lawsuits than win the lottery.    Another reason for such lawsuits is that it is used to punish people whose viewpoints the one filing the lawsuit disapproves of. It has become a weapon in the culture war.     The workplace has become a rather stifling place to express oneself due to all the laws that pertain to creating a hostile environment. Nearly any non-bland statement or action could fall under hostile environment law. Again, one second guesses the real purpose of the law: Is it really about civil rights or does it just give government more work to do snooping into private sector where it does not really belong.     One of the worst organizations for encroaching on civil liberties is the government housing department HUD. Any protest against their activities can bring a lawsuit and they even control how a house can be advertised...    A lot of companies enforce oppressive civil rights laws not because they actually approve of them but because they want to avoid a bankrupting lawsuit.      Bernstein covers the American Civil Liberties Union and how it should really should start calling itself the American Civil RIGHTS Union since it is increasingly favoring civil rights over civil liberties.     Another interesting point is that those who try to restrict others' freedom of speech through hate speech regulation may one day find that same regulation will be used against their own free expressions. What goes around comes around...	2004-03-28
US	49511895	R6J2RJ3M59YEL	081334008X	989073314	Intelligence, Race, And Genetics: Conversations With Arthur R. Jensen	Books	4	31	38	N	N	Just Doing Factual Science	Intelligence, Race, and Genetics spends a lot of time on the scientist Arthur Jensen's opinions and what his agenda or ideology may be. Some questions are along the line of, \\"Have you ever been associated with, or now a member of a Neo-Nazi organization?\\" The silliness aside, one comes to the conclusion that Jensen is hesitant to say what the political implications of what his race and IQ research will be. He is mostly interested in doing accurate science, no matter whether the conclusions are politically convenient or not.<br />One gets the impression that public policy problems can't be solved unless the solutions are backed by good, accurate science. You can't solve such problems by wishing that problems and solutions fit a liberal ideology. Otherwise, you'll keep spending money on programs that don't work. <br />I gleaned a few of his opinions from the book. He still believes in integration, but favors a more individualistic education system with less government control. Vituperative attacts from liberals don't bother him as much as winning approval from people who have their prejudices confirmed by his research. (Although I can't see how an opinion based on scientific research can be called merely a prejudice.) He does not think that mass third world immigration to America will benefit this country. An ethical and voluntary eugenics program would benefit this country, but reducing world population growth is his first concern.<br />This book is a nice complement to The Bell Curve, the classic on hereditarian science. Some of the technical explanations of how Jenson comes to his conclusions may be hard to understand for the layman. Jenson puts science first above politics in his research, I don't know if we can say the same for other academics.	2004-03-01
US	49511895	R2SEJUDM7KWZEJ	0807103578	925004129	I'll Take My Stand: The South and the Agrarian Tradition (Library of Southern Civilization)	Books	5	22	26	N	N	The Agrarian South Vs. The Industrial North	These southern writers of I'll Take My Stand, sounded like farmers, but were mostly professors who originated from the south. Many of them lived and taught outside the south, but still had Dixie on their minds. All of them were connected in some way with Vanderbilt University. These are southern gentleman writers with flowing prose and show that the south is not completely anti-intellectual, though one writer says that southerners were not into learning just for learnings's sake, like in the north. I will say anti-intellectualism does shield people from bad ideas and keeps them to the tried and true old ways.  <br />In general, the argument is that the agrarian culture of the south was superior to the industrial culture of the north. Farmers were self-sufficient and were able to remain independent from the government and the money economy by growing their own food, making their own clothes, and building their own shelters. The ideal farming which preserves the southern culture is pre-dominately subsistence farming and does not depend on money crops and the boom and bust economy. The King Cotton cash crop was criticized because once it was over-produced and prices for it fell, farmers fell into never ending debt. One writer mentions that farmers should not be into farming to get rich, but to preserve an agrarian lifestyle.<br />It is also mentioned that farm work was not as mechanical as the factory work of the North. It was claimed that the South had more time for leisure to support a richer cultural life than the North. The North is accused of money-grubbing, emphasizing economic concerns over quality of life concerns. One writer regrets that the South did not become a hot spot for higher learning, like the North East had become. If only the South hadn't been invaded by Yankees, their culture would have developed more and became permanent!<br />There are some complaints about cars and how the roads are detrimental to farming life and the agrarian culture of the South. In general, the authors were concerned with preserving this culture and were worried that since they lost the Civil War, they would eventually lose their culture to the industrial culture of the north. It is a good book to find out about what life was like for southerners after the war--what pressures and problems of survival they had and the poverty they faced. <br />There is some discussion of the civil war. One author saw the war as war between two cultures that were diametrically opposed to one another. The north needed the south to live off of and so it could not let her go. It is also interesting to note that the south did not like tariffs because they were detrimental to farmers, but the north did. <br />The problem of slavery is presented as something that was forced on America by England, since England was making a fortune off the slave trade. The south was not blamed for having the pre-dominate share of slaves until about 1830 when a fanatical abolitionist by the name of William Lloyd Garrison started circulating &quot;stories&quot; about &quot;evil&quot; slave owners who mistreated their slaves terribly.<br />The agrarian south and its culture is a ghost of its former self, but some of these issues live own with writers like Wendell Berry who advocate going back to the farm and becoming more self-sufficient, while being less southern and more racially egalitarian. Luddites will like this book. The book shows convincely that if technology changes, it changes the culture and many people won't like those changes. The writers often seem justifiably bitter about the way things turned out for the south, with their nation and culture being conquered and all. And what can I say? The book is bedrock conservative, sometimes stultifyingly so, you'll have blow the dust off this one!	2004-02-23
US	49511895	RO2TAYWDGDA6W	0385479433	129609703	In Defense of Elitism	Books	5	7	14	N	N	William Henry Argues for a more Elitist Society	William A. Henry III, with his perfect name for an elitist, argues that the society has gotten too egalitarian wanting equality of results and status for everyone and everything, with no attention being paid to elitist values of striving for excellence, enforcing discipline, and ranking people, things, and ideas according to their merits. Anyone who thinks that society has gotten too egalitarian will be pleased with this book.     Henry sometimes sounds like a far right winger like David Duke or Dr. William Pierce with his arguments that conquering the frontier civilized this country and with his rebuttal of afro-centrists who claim that blacks invented some basic technologies and once had a high civilization in Egypt. However, the direction of his arguments eventually leads to the liberal ideals of integration, equality of opportunity, and assimilating any individual of any race into this country which has been predominately white for so many years. His idea of America is one in which any individual of any race should swear allegiance to Western ideals which will make them American--a citizenship not based on race.     Problem is, it may be very hard, if not impossible, to enforce Western ideals in a multi-racial society especially if assimilation is not enforced. He seems to make the same mistakes in thinking that libertarians do--that we are just individuals and we are not tied to an ethnic group and its culture.     He calls racists and sexists \\"creeps\\", but by identifying himself as elitist, he vaguely realizes that he will also be considered a creep by quasi-marxist egalitarians who have developed the concepts of racism, sexism, and anti-elitism. He has a way of offending the politically incorrect crowd that might agree with him in order to keep his mainstream liberal credentials. (He was a culture critic for Newsweek.)       I think the dubious advantage of an egalitarian society that de-emphasizes excellence is that people can be lazier and not have to workto be the best that they can be. Meanwhile though, we are competing with other cultures that may not be so lazy and egalitarian.     The author may some interesting comments of education. He said that his mother who went to a school in the 40's of average reputation had to read all 37 of Shakespheare's plays in one semester, as opposed to the one a week assigned during a 12 week semester at average colleges today. With the increase of numbers of people going to college, a dilution of the quality of that education has taken place.    Henry questions whether it is a good idea to bankrupt the middle class by finances their childrens' college education if the education does not really advance their career life monetarily. He mentions college grads that are messenger boys on a permanent basis. (I must say that the economy is tough these days--it's harder to find a white collar professional career.)    He talks about how there is a glut of journalism grads, but not enough job slots in the field to give all these grads a job in journalism. He wants an education system that puts more people onto a vocational track and leaves college for the true eggheads of this world.     He deplores the turning away from tracking students according to ability in high schools and including special education students into the class of students of normal intelligence because doing so slows down the rest of the class. This problem stems from egalitarians who hate the elitist idea that it is beneficial sometimes to exclude people that don't qualify to join a certain group.    Henry mentions that our European-derived culture is a mix of egalitarian and elitist ideals. Since World War II egalitarianism has dominated the culture.     I would say that many of us have egalitarian and elitist impulses wanting to exclude others at times as a matter of pride in accomplishment and status, but also not wanting to excluded from any group feeling that we are equal to anyone, even though we aren't. We feelthe shame of inferiority when we are excluded.     I don't agree with him that we should have more confidence in the mainstream media as opposed to the alternative one because he asserts that it has higher journalistic standards, although he criticizes mainstream media for not keeping up to those standards.     Elitism probably won't solve any racial dilemmas, if we go back to a system of meritocracy, we will still have an underclass of pre-dominately lesser talented non-whites discontent with the lower pay that lesser talent brings. They are not to blame for being lesser talented, if it is genetically based. That's probably why the  egalitarian notion of equality of results is popular; it gives people the illusion that everyone of whatever race is equally talented.	2004-02-19
US	49511895	R3PW09YDX1MV8O	0895264625	617916488	The New Color Line	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Legal Equality for All, Special Privilege for None	This is a thought-provoking book that may make the reader angry at times to read about the discrimination against whites under the guise of affirmative action. The ideals of hiring the best qualified person for the job is being destroyed by the desire to have equality of results and not equal opportunity. This practice can be dangerous such as in fields like medicine, if doctors are certified because of race and not because of competence.     The authors talk a lot about how it is essential to have good will among citizens for a democratic government to work. The reader may come to the conclusion that in a free society you may have to give fellow citizens freedom of association and even the freedom to discriminate, rather than coercing people by the power of federal bureacracy to hire without discriminating. It is pointed out that if an employer does not hire on merit alone, his business will be uncompetitive in the market. Essentially, we have an ineffecient market now because the best qualified are not hired according to ability. The social thinker Gunnar Myrdal thought that democracy could not get rid of racism, perhaps because of this lack of good will, and decided it would be better to enforce equality with the power of the state in his highly influential book An American Dilemma.    The New Color Line covers the Brown court decision in which the authors give evidence of this being the beginnings of what is called rule by judges or judicial tyranny today. Legal precedent was swept away for touchy feely sociological arguments based on doubtful research that the judges would base their decisions upon. \\"Creative judicial decisions\\" similar to \\"creative bookkeeping\\" that did not have any basis in the constitution were imposed on the populace. The authors also give evidence that the some of court's decisions came about by unethical dealings. Civil rights were also to be totally decided by congress through legislation, and not by the judicial branch. Separation of powers has ceased to exist.     One may come to the conclusion that democracy is only is good as the character and intelligence of the people in positions of power. If the constitution and law is ignored and a legal decision is unethically brought about, and people in power seemingly don't understand the perils of not sticking with the constitution, democracy ceases to exist. One wonders if they really merit their positions, but we're appointed only for ideological reasons. Actually the original civil rights act has explicit language forbidding privilege through quotas but these laws have been ignored by judges.    The authors Roberts and Stratton seem to be traditional liberals who believe in equality before the law, good will between citizens of different races, and equal opportunity, but not special privilege. The question is though, will some citizens be satisfied with just equal opportunity which will plainly show that there is no equality of talent and therefore no equality in income? A false utopian equality of result is desired more than just a meritocracy with a discontented underclass of lesser talents who will be lesser paid. Also, one may conclude by reading the book that integration with equality before the law was not successful as an ideal. In a few short years, it seemed more like a power grab by the government and the newly privileged than just an interest in equality before the law. And again, is there really enough good will between the races to have one nation? I think I like authors better who think along these lines such as Jared Taylor.	2004-01-25
US	49511895	R18P4OQQG81SWV	1401901115	548199648	The Journey to the Sacred Garden: A Guide to Traveling in the Spiritual Realms	Books	4	29	37	N	Y	Happy Daydreams!	Having read the book several times and done the journeys with the CD, I think that it's an interesting experience. The drumming has the ability to put you into a light trance and you can relax while going into your sacred garden. Nothing really scary has happened to me as I've gone on these trips alone and nothing really dramatic has happened either. it certainly doesn't compare to what supposedly happens on an LSD trip.-- Sorry. I don't get the kind of way out visions that Wesselman gets.     After trying the journeys for a month, I think I MAY or MAY NOT be feeling better because of the sessions. I SEEM to be more creative musically, more aware of what is going on of significance in everyday life, a little more energetic at times, (...), and possibly relieved somewhat from a condition I have. Is it the sessions or just the natural flow of events? I don't know.    I did not have to go to the lower worlds to find my spirit guides as Wesselman instructs. I found them immediately in the garden. I think I mostly made them up from what I would want them to be, except, heh heh, the Birdman and the Tarzan-like guy with the snake. I also have a nymph, a beautiful woman, a knome, a wizard, Jesus, my oversoul, and a council of elders. I also imagined my dead mother too. I think I'm capable of making this all up from imagination anyway. They mostly work on healing me in some way through light, light balls that I swallow, and water and healing potions. I also have gifts from them that represent goals that I focus on while there. It is easy to hold a vision with the drumming. I can even be interrupted and move back into the vision again relatively quickly. I never really get much verbal council of any significance about, for instance, the purpose of my life--just generalized, cliched, bland stuff that I could have guessed on my own. I never communicate with nature or the elements the way Wesselman does and I'm probably not that interested.    The instruction book is short, to the point, informative and easy to read. The sessions are relaxing. Are the visions real or imaginative? Are they profoundly beneficial? At this point, I don't know.    Update August 2, 2004: I'd knock it down a star. I haven't used the CD in several months and I don't think it has changed my life in any significant way. I think it could only be effective with certain people, as Wesselman seems to suggest. Maybe if you get someone to help you who knows something about it, you would do better. I did my visions with the CD by myself.	2003-12-23
US	49511895	RAT78DAPXZRTC	0061320587	457742098	The Unraveling of America: A History of Liberalism in the 1960s (The New American Nation Series)	Books	5	21	41	N	N	Gimme Shelter from the Sixties!!!	Reading this book about the sixties is like listening to the Beatles catalog from beginning to end; it starts out nice and sunny in the beginning and keeps getting stranger and more drugsy towards the end.    Beginning with the Kennedy Camelot era, liberalism was defined as a moderate corporate liberalism that worked with the establishment to make reforms. Corporations were considered basically good by liberals because they produced wealth for most people. The blacks, however, had 51% of the wealth of white people and were largely shut out from the economic and political mainstream. Civil rights legislation began to develop during the Kennedy years and Kennedy responded in the typically foxy way of politicians trying to please two opposing camps so as to get re-elected.     After Kennedy died, Johnson passed the civil rights legislation and it seemed like liberalism's greatest triumph of the decade. Johnson presided over the war on poverty, a program that he tried to make sure did not upset those who were in power by giving more power to poor people to make decisions about how they should get out of poverty. Any attempts to give power to the people were eventually worn down by the inertia of bureaucracy. The author Allen Matusow seems to have favored some form of radical wealth redistribution, instead of the conventional bureaucratic programs.    There is also some discussion about economic policy of those years in the book--the mundane but important issues about how much to tax, how much to spend, how to avoid economic slumps or even collapses, and whether to listen to the economist Keynes or to Friedman.    The rest of the book is an engrossing account of people going crazy with drugs, violence, sex, music, and insurrections. The roots of the counterculture are explained from the black jazz hipsters of the 30s, to the beatniks of the 50s, and to the hippies of the 60s. In the final decadent years, the radical communist left took over the political culture and intensely protested the moderate corporate liberalism of the Johnson era along with his prolongation of the war in Vietnam. The left saw itself as a movement allied with the non-white oppressed against the rich white men who controlled the world through imperialism. It is not discussed in the book whether there was any validity to the claims of such imperialism.     I disagreed with the author's desire to have wealth redistribution, that old concept of giving unearned money to people to spend on whatever. It doesn't address the problem of killing the work incentive, the ablility to handle money wisely, and the innate ability or lack thereof to earn money. I thought that the black nationalism of the era had the better idea of giving blacks their own nation to live in, minus all the violent talk and actions. In fact, Lincoln had planned to give blacks their own nation after Emancipation but it was never fully accomplished. I think it would reduce infighting among groups with divergent self-interests. But politics is based on short-sidedness and selfishness, such radical visions are dismissed as impractical even though integration can also be said to impractical.	2003-12-21
US	49511895	R1BZXAB7WFO2LO	0970417608	591232422	Genius Frequency	Books	4	9	19	N	Y	Highly Abstract New Age Philosophy	This book is difficult to read and understand at times. Falone claims that by doing visualization exercises in the book, one can get on the genius frequency. I found such exercises to be complex in their instructions, but basically you will be attempting to visualize the higher light of The One and trying to realize you are one with all. --Scary thought, ain't it? What if don't wish to be one with all? Falone says you are then cutting yourself off from The Source which is in all things.<br />The definition of intelligence is fuzzy to Falone. He thinks illiterates have been geniuses. What about IQ scores? Bah!! Humbug!! Falone seems to say--intelligence can't be measured by IQ scores. If we can access the genius frequency by expanding our awareness, we will become aware that we already know everything. Falone is at war with the arrogant intellect which spouts out its half-truths of our earth bound reality. He says that we will not be able to survive the end of time, if we cannot access the genius frequency of the new age. We must think from the heart of hearts in pure love to access the genius frequency.<br />I would have liked more concrete proof that Falone has been getting smarter from all his high flying contemplations. His mind has flown away, I believe. This is an interesting book that is easy to make fun of, but unless your true believer in such things, I wouldn't waste your time or money on it. I can't say he's wrong though, we still haven't figured out how intelligence works yet and philosophers should get a pass on coming up with wild speculations. I think Falone's insights all come from his own thinking, which isn't good enough proof for me.<br />Anyway, I'm not feeling much smarter, even though it is suggested that the book should be read repeatedly. I don't think I'm up for it.	2003-12-14
US	49511895	REDWQLCNHRVE8	0952614715	703793285	And the Truth Shall Set You Free	Books	5	65	70	N	N	Exposing The Master Manipulators	Author David Icke has written a conspiracy book with a more liberal viewpoint than usual. He refers to a lot of New World Order researchers from the left and right and explains and summarizes various plots well. Conspiracy buffs may have heard of a lot of this material before, so I can't really say it's original. Icke subcribes to using your mind as your \\"flexible friend\\" rather \\"rigid taskmaster\\" chained to some dogma that rejects other ways of thinking. He has an interesting approach to his research and does not hesitate to criticize the left, the right, Darwinists, Christians, Jews, New Agers, or any belief system that claims to have an unerring dogmatic truth.     Icke has gotten into trouble for criticizing some Jewish organizations and when one talks of conspiracy theories, there are some who think that (wink wink) you are really just talking about the Jews.  He has read some books that people critical of Jews have read and comes to different conclusions about the information he has discovered. He thinks that it is just a few Jews who have betrayed other Jews and are in cahoots with the New World Order. He explains how many Nazis were \\"Jewish\\" selling out their own people and supporting Hitler financially and otherwise, along with the ruling families of the Illuminati who were supposedly on the allied side. The allegedly Jewish Arthur Rosenberg, one of Hitler's own, is mentioned by Icke in the book. Icke also mentions Allen Dulles of US state department, a gentile who supported Hitler while seemingly on the Allied side. According to Icke, Hitler was part of the grand conspiracy, but was duped eventually by the people above him. Icke explains how the Illuminati creates most wars and then finances both sides my manipulating human nature. One gets the impression from reading that there are hardly any spontaneous wars. The wars also serve the purpose of centralizing the Illuminati's power over everyone. The Illuminati, according to Icke, are controlled by evil aliens who manipulate them.     Icke covers the issue of money, debts, and interest well and how the system is a scam to impoverish people. He says that the reason why the third world is so poor is that they are indebted so deeply to the world bank because of the interest on their debt. Eventually, the bank owned by the conspirators plans to own the third world's resources by swapping that debt for equity. The conspirators have also manipulated poor countries into growing cash crops instead of the subsistence crops that the people need to have to prevent starvation. This is one of the ways in which the population is reduced according to their plans. --\\"Could the reason why so many illegal aliens are coming into developed nations because they are being starved out at home?\\" I thought.    Icke also mentions that interest paid on money loaned out by the federal reserve is a scam and also interest charged on loans for homes. This interest is not necessary and impoverishes people while enriching the lenders who own the banks.     Icke believes in the equality of the races, despite differing IQ scores and civilizational achievements, I might add. He thinks that if a person or group believes themselves to be superior ruler or inferior victim, then they will be, creating this reality by their thinking. \\"Is this idea of his like the much maligned self-esteem movement?\\" I thought to myself, as I read. Usually you get people feeling really good about themselves, but they still can't read or write or add.    Icke's solution to our problems which he claims that we have created by our thinking is not violent. He thinks we should love, respect, and forgive ourselves and others, including the dark tyrants that we have created to turn us into slaves. We should also think for ourselves, respect other's right to think freely for themselves, and take on more personal responsibility, not leaving decisions up to our rulers. By changing our powerful thoughts, we change the world. In the end,he says to one of the dark ones: \\"I love you, Dr. Kissinger\\". --Ughh! How did we bring himself to say it!     Conpiracy theories may still remain on the fringe because people hesitate to condemn people that they don't know. Others believe that someone makes up conspiracy theories about the rich and powerful out of envy, fear, malice or for the profit motive, attention, or entertainment purposes. We also told so many things and have so many viewpoints, we don't know who to believe. The status quo reality and history is also comforting with heroes and villians all in their places. One does not like to feel liked they've been duped by a manipulator. Many read a conspiracy book and say that it could be true, but don't believe wholeheartedly in what the author says and therefore take no action to change the corrupt system that we all work for, buy from and invest in. However, I can't see how Icke gave up his high position in society to become an object of ridicule unless he sincerely believes in what he is saying.	2003-11-01
US	49511895	R2HG96LTJY3UWM	0915132362	500567406	The Bhagavad Gita (English, Sanskrit and Sanskrit Edition)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A Nice Introduction Into The Gita	This poetic translation is easy to read and presents the ideas of Hinduism and Buddhism well. As with most religious books, it is filled with lofty ideals that I find nearly impossible to follow. \\"Selfless service\\" is one of them in which a follower of Lord Krishna gives up selfish desire and takes action without trying to reap a reward from those actions. Also, one must be of a calm and balanced mind, not getting angry, and you should be able to treat friend and foe alike. Meditation is very important because by clearing the mind of chatter, you are able to achieve peace with the One and I suppose this helps you to follow lofty ideals and also helps you to avoid rebirth back into our madhouse planet. The book gives you an idea of what these religions are all about.	2003-09-28
US	49511895	R13XWQ9QUQWW6P	0517336332	379927993	Golden Bough: The Roots of Religion and Folklore	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Killing The God	It takes some patience to read through all the examples that James Frazer gives to prove his points about religions, but it reaps its rewards. Sometimes I wish he would have summarized more briefly when going over examples in different lands, such as when tribes were killing the fertility god during the harvest, especially when the rituals were very similar to one another. But he thoroughly proves his point anyway.<br />Of course, the scientific, objective study of religion tends to turn you into an atheist. I've noticed a lot of skeptical books about religion are linked to this one. If you read the book, you may come to the conclusion that Christ was just a representive of god sacrificed for the benefit of humanity, just like all the other representatives of god that were sacrificed to have good crops. Abundant life replaces an abundant harvest in this case. <br />Frazer doesn't talk much about biblical \\"myths\\" much and not at all about Christ, but one can draw inferences from his work about certain passages in the Bible such as eating the body and blood of Christ during communion. Apparently, sacrificing and eating the body and blood of a representative of a god is an old pagan practice that the Biblical story has much in common with. Or the death and resurrection of a god is old pagan belief that Bible has much in common with as well. The sacrificing an offering for the sins of the people was also practiced long before Christ sacrificed himself for sins. One gets the impression that religion is just superstition in which primitive people tried to control an unpredictable environment with certain rituals to ensure a good harvest or to get rid of disease.<br />One could say that Christ as God sacrificed himself once and for all in such a way that people would understand what he was doing; he sacrificed himself using their cultural understanding of religion. Such an explanation would help keep your faith, if you wanted to keep it. But I can see why objective, scientific, rational, non-mystical types would love this book because it shows that \\"thank god\\" the best minds don't believe in old superstitions about god anymore, such as human sacrifice for better crops. <br />James Frazer is not exactly a cultural relativist so he has no problem with calling certain societies savage or primitive and his own society civilized and more advanced, although he admits its primitive past. I am agreement with his assumptions, so that labelling didn't bother me most of the time. <br />This is an easily read scholarly work that is really long and presents examples of our primitive past before the scientific method was developed and saved us all from irrational thinking. I can see why people of like mind to Frazer's would shudder at thought of a revival of religion, to them religion is just irrational superstition. <br />I found particularly interesting Frazer's coverage of kings who were treated as gods on earth and how restrictive their lives were. If people thought they could no longer deliver good health and crops to the people, or if they thought he was past his prime, or if he refused to obey certain rules and rituals, they would kill their useless god and get another.	2003-09-27
US	49511895	R1H61DNJ1R7VPY	0446520543	635732588	The Eternal Journey: How Near-Death Experiences Illuminate Our Earthly Lives	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The First Shall be Last and the Last First	The Eternal Journey's best insight is that what kindnesses sincerely we do especially for the lowly and helpless is what is the most important thing we will be judged by once we reach the afterlife. All the earthly cares and pleasures we are focused on such moving up in the world will not matter much in the afterlife and going after material things solely will deaden our spiritual growth, which has eternal value. We grow by love and according to this book, our faith in the right sort of religious doctrine will not matter as much as how loving we were, even to those very different from us.     As far as practical problems on earth, the book leaves one confused. Things have to be done and set up properly for society to function well and some ideas on how to do that are better than others. So I don't see how one could just sit back and not worry about such temporal problems, as the book seems to suggest we should.     The book suggests we should love everyone, but this suggestion doesn't make much sense to me on a practical level when enemies bent on our destruction will just take advantage of our love and attempt to take all of our power from us.       Another interesting insight is that we, our lives and our decisions are important both temporally and eternally. What we think and do or don't do rightly or wrongly will have an effect on everyone being that we are all interconnected. We should be careful of what we do, think, or say and we should consider what effect that we bring to us and others. This is not a meaningless existence, all of it is rather very meaningful and we are important players in this existence both here and now and in eternity.     Also, we are given a mission that relates to our families, which we should fulfill for spiritual progress of the family. Unfortunately, we don't know exactly what that mission is while we dwell on earth and have passed through the veil of forgetfulness. The mission probably has something to do with love, I suppose. Families and their relationships are important on earth and in heaven.     There are also other interesting tidbits such as it not a good idea to get addicted to something until it becomes a spiritual addiction. You will not be able to slake your cravings in the afterworld without a physical body.     The Eternal Journey has a Christian world view mostly. You get one shot at living a proper life and then you are judged eternally. You don't keep coming round and round like in reincarnation to get it right. It makes this one life much more important, if this is true. Some hellish NDE's are reported, which are about 12 percent of all reported NDE's. Whether hell is eternal or not is debatable, according to the book, but it is appropriately scary. A lot of what is reported in the book illuminates some scriptures such as earthly losers being winners in heaven (the last shall be first) and everything hidden shall be revealed (there will be no hidden secrets in the afterlife).    Reading this book may encourage readers to think about their lives, their values, and whether they are living right and valuing the right things.	2003-09-13
US	49511895	R3PM5QH98B9KIA	0671792253	777019112	Class: A Guide Through the American Status System	Books	5	23	26	N	N	High Giggle Factor	Author Paul Fussell swings from contempt to sympathy as he observes the behavior of different classes. He writes with a distinctive style as he takes a mostly subjective witty look at what makes a person part of a certain class. One complaint I have is that he does not tell us how he came by his information about different classes. Did he go visit people of different classes for several days and find out about them? Most of the time people stay in their own class and that is the only class they really know without stereotyping. That's why I just view this book as merely his opinion of what sets off one class from another. <br />A reader can read this book and figure out what class he is in. Maybe you will see yourself all over the map as far as class goes, such as having mostly middle class tendencies with a little redneck sneaking out from time to time. I suppose I'm either high prole or middle class with some bohemian pretensions. I fell between the cracks--too educated to be high prole but not professional enough to be middle class. <br />Some things Fussell mentions seem petty as as a class marker. Who really cares what kind of ice cream a person buys as far as a class marker? Some things I wouldn't have guessed about the upper classes such as the point he makes about not praising their furniture or food because it should already be assumed that is the best of the best. <br />Fussell doesn't like the middle classes because they are insecure euphemizing fakes that try to act like they are classier than they really are and they keep pronouncing foreign words wrong, but use them anyway. <br />Fussell is also worried about \\"prole drift\\" in which everything in society begins to gravitate towards the tastes of the proles, mentioning the problem of ugly, functional-looking architecture that surrounds us.<br />Fussell mentions a class called \\"X\\" which is somewhat similar to bohemians. I think he thinks he is a part of this class and he likes this class because it is thecategory for people who are trying to escape the class jail. I thought it was a glorified description since escaping a class may just be an illusion and I think bohemians live on its margins of society as social outcasts. Bohos are often so idiosyncratic that can't get along with others in their category--so it's a lonely life.	2003-09-07
US	49511895	RZCSNUXHEVQ10	0767906322	736780451	The Case for Marriage: Why Married People are Happier, Healthier and Better Off Financially	Books	5	8	14	N	N	Is There Hope For Marraige?	You can also read other books about how bad marraige is, or how bad wives and husbands are, which can be convincing, but this book is definitely pro-marraige and convincing also. But I think society must be almost in irreparably bad shape if you have to come out with a book defending marraige. Most likely the authors Linda Waite and Maggie Gallagher will be called \\"fascists\\" from some quarters for asserting that marraige is superior to other lifestyles and life-long marraige is the best way to go. <br />Waite and Gallagher argue well that marraige will make you more  happy, wealthy, and healthy, backing up their claims with solid research while showing that other research that says that marraige is bad for you was not done accurately. <br />I thought one of the most important points they made is that our personal marraiges are much happier and stronger if society supports and protects them unreservedly through legislation especially. One can see that we need to tighten our divorce laws so that people will take their marraiges seriously and invest in them completely. If a partner thinks that one will leave with an easy divorce, most likely they will not invest as much in a marraige and therefore will reap less benefits. You need to be totally committed. Couples that are married but think positively about divorce aren't as happy as couples who don't see divorce as an option. Even couples that report that they are very unhappy in a marraige at one point mostly report later that they are happy again, if they stick to it.<br />Waite and Gallagher discuss whether the goose or the gander gets ripped off in marraige and come to the conclusion that the benefits are about even. They say cohabitation is bad because the couples are not totally committed to the relationship and don't invest as much in it and therefore don't reap the better benefits of marraige. Sex is also better for married couples because they are readily available for each other, they care about each other, and there more interested in the sexual satisfaction of their spouses. <br />I was also surprised to find out that people who are depressed are able to find and get a mate and their mental condition improves once they are married. I always thought only winners married winners and no one was interested in taking in someone who had problems, figuring the stresses of marraige would make things worse.   <br />Readers may come to the conclusion that they should stop fooling around and get married.	2003-09-07
US	49511895	R3GYZF86AWKBQ1	0812036042	771134625	Twelfth Night or What You Will	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Some Plays Achieve Greatness!	Of all Shakespheare's plays I've read so far, I like Twelfth Night the best. I read it so many times I even lost my dependence on the modern language translation and I could read the Elizabethan language with the right conversational rhythm, losing all the awkwardness. I particularly liked the role of the snobby servant Malvolio, who tries to move up to the level of his Countess Olivia and leave his other \\"inferiors\\" behind. There is a couple of elaborate pranks being played upon characters in the play, in which Malvolio becomes one of the victims. Sir Toby, Sir Andrew, and Maria are the comic \\"team\\" that set these pranks in motion, all with amusing results. I just like the playfulness of these characters and their continual search for fun. <br />The main plot of the play is little less interesting involving the old disguised, mistaken, or confused identity ploy that Shakespheare uses from time to time. This time out a woman named Viola is a character pretending to be a man who is sent to woo Countess Olivia for Duke Orsino. She has a brother that looks just like her, especially now since she is dressed like a man. Identity confusion ensues. Also the pranks of the subplot mesh with the main plot for an amusing end.	2003-08-24
US	49511895	RAMLXDN00XH0O	0312302592	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	5	21	26	N	N	How the West Will Be Lost	Pat Buchanan is more gloomy than usual of this effort to convince readers that the west is dying. It is hard to chalk it all up to a conservative's fear of change. But in the last part of the book, the \\"take action\\" section, he comes to conclusion that the truth may win out over Bolshevik pseudo-intellectualism. <br />His argument that Western countries are not having enough children is somewhat unique and the topic needs to have more coverage. White people need to know what the consequences of barrenness will be--the extinction of themselves and their society. But as feminism marches on and young women become more focused on careers than children, it will be very hard to get white populations above the replacement rate. Buchanan links childlessness to lack of faith in traditional Christianity and the loss of our future for refusing to have children. He explains the consequences well. He explains the importance of children in being able to sustain and defend a civilization. The west may very well decide to bring in people of alien cultures just to have a big enough tax base to support the older white Americans, even though immigrants themselves are also often a monetary burden on society. <br />Buchanan also explains well the strategies of far left in trying to take over America. Rather than going for the top down approach that they used in USSR, they thought it would be more successful to use a bottom up approach in American by infiltrating all our institutions and then changing the culture that way. It is more subtle approach and harder to resist. Buchanan also explains that conservatives are not dealing with an opponent willing to compromise, but is dead set on destroying everthing conservatives loved about Western culture. In such a situation, conservatives have to become counter-revoltionaries willing to fight and rebel against corrupt institutions, even though it is not in nature for conservatives to rebel. In any case, many on the far left do not intend to live in a live-and-let-live libertarian la-la land. They intend to impose their values on everyone, which is what all political groups seek to do.  <br />Buchanan has written a disturbing book about the culture war from his right wing position and it is obviously a call to arms for conservatives to defend their culture wholeheartedly, relentlessly, and aggressively. Going on the offensive is imperative too. But the dying dominant culture may be too complacent and the left wing revolutionaries are more motivated since they have not made the culture completely confortable for themselves yet. That means conservatives will either have to become very uncomfortable and marginalized or will have to capitulate by surrendering their beliefs.<br />But perhaps the right's greatest advantage is that the left is very annoying; they are the original people against sacred things such as Motherhood, Baseball, and Apple Pie (especially motherhood, and fatherhood doubly so). The common folk do not like it when everything they love is attacked and white people in particular may soon weary of being humilated and blamed for every minority short-coming. It is this annoyance that brings people further to the right. Another advantage is that left wing ideas don't work out too well in reality, which causes discontent and longing in people to rebel against such tyrants.	2003-08-24
US	49511895	REXU4NJMRMDWH	0812036034	764423438	The Tempest (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	3	7	17	N	N	A Play Probably Better Watched Than Read	Reading this play is not too interesting. There are a lot of visual elements in this play such as ship wrecks, dancing fairies, the use of magic, and an ugly monster. The themes of power, freedom and forgiveness are touched upon.<br />Propero has had his kingdom usurped by his brother and he seeks to regain his kingdom by the use of his magic. His brother Antonio and company are purposely shipwrecked on the island that Prospero has been banished to. One of the shipwrecked company is a son of a king named Ferdinand who falls in love at first sight with Prospero's daughter Miranda and he becomes a slave to Prospero. Typical Shakesphearian love at first sight silliness ensues.<br />Prospero has another slave, a monster named Caliban. Caliban is an interesting character with some of the best lines in the play. He seeks to regain the island back from Prospero with the help of two lowly comic characters, Trinculo and Stephano. This part is faintly funny to read about.<br />Eventually the play wraps up with the gruff, overbearing, cantankerous, and somewhat cruel windbag Prospero forgiving his brother's trespasses, regaining his kingdom, and stifling Caliban's rebellion. And, of course, no Shakespheare play is complete without a marraige--this time Miranda and Ferdinand will be wed. Prospero also frees his trusty servant-fairy Ariel and having accomplished all this, mentions that he is ready to die.<br />Prospero is a psychologically complex character worth reading about. I also liked the scene in which his betraying brother Antonio seeks to subtlely persuade Sebastian to kill Alonso, the duke of Naples, and capture his kingdom. It had a lot of moody, dramatic tension to it. But for the most part I couldn't get into this play.	2003-08-24
US	49511895	RH0K4LXUF0PVJ	0670818860	822709726	Light Years: An Investigation into the Extraterrestrial Experiences of Eduard Meier	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Are the Pleiadians Our Ancestors?	Author Gary Kinder explores the investigation into whether Billy Meier had actually been contacted by aliens or not. I was pretty well convinced by the book that he had made contact. A lot of people investigating the phenomenon in the book were deeply skeptical of Meier and did all they could to try to figure out how he could perpetrate a hoax, but could not find much. I thought the skepticism was getting ridiculous as I read on. But if someone doesn't want to believe in something, it doesn't really matter how much evidence is presented. My only disappointment with the book is that the author did not go into great detail about what the Pleiadians said to Billy Meier about themselves, their civilization, what they knew about our civilization, and what they were doing here. Kinder dismisses what the Meier said about the Pleiadians as \\"ravings\\". Meier made notes of each of his visits with the aliens, so going into detail about the conversations would not have been a problem. Kinder should have let the \\"madman\\" speak, instead of leaving it out of the book.	2003-08-20
US	49511895	R3MZL1321G96BE	0451197607	910612504	Soul Traveler: A Guide to Out-of-Body Experiences and the Wonders Beyond	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Not Much Content	Meet Albert Taylor who has had some out of body experiences. I can't really say that his experiences reveal much. At one point in the book he mentions that he may be psychic rescuer to some ghostly slaves of the antebellum era who are still stuck on the earth plane, but then he abruptly drops the subject. I like it when authors can explore their subject deeply and I just didn't think their was enough content in the book to do that. His most valuable point was that if one is having negative emotions, it is hard to have an out of body experience. He gives suggestions near the end of book about how to have one. This is a fun and fluffy read with the depth of content as light as, say, People Magazine. A lot of new age books are like this.	2003-08-20
US	49511895	R2C8WRALBF6P8E	1556434499	597639981	Dreaming in Real Time: The Shanti Shanti Story	Books	5	10	11	N	Y	Shanti Shanti, Baby!!!	Author Linda Forman in Dreaming in Real Time writes the story of her family as they go on a miraculous spiritual journey after finding out that her daughters can chant ancient Sanskrit after learning it swiftly on their own. Some the theological difficulties of having the daughters chant Hindu prayers for Christian churches are explored, but since new agers tend to believe that all religions are one despite apparent contradictions and hostilities, this is not a subject that is explored in depth.<br />Forman has many delightful parlour stories about her family and some of the extraordinary events they have experienced. They seem to be people blessed with knowing what their purpose in life is, for the most part, while many of us struggle to find any rhyme or reason to it. <br />One of the main points of the story is that chanting sanskrit can make people dramatically feel better and peoples' unusual and immediate emotional reactions to the music are presented in the book. Even dogs and plants seem to love the vibes. I can't really say I had such a dramatic reaction to the CD included with the book. \\"Ganesh Prayers\\" had nice melodies and harmonies to it and I found \\"Shanti Mantra\\" good for meditating as the young women chant very fast and hypnotically for 5 minutes. The rest sounds like Sunday Morning Contempory Christian church music--a little too sweet, bland, and feminine for my tastes, as I listened to their sugary light pop confections.<br />It wasn't unpleasant, but I thought they should go for a more exotic, mysterious world music sound and get their East Indian musician friends to help them come up with a more authentic sound. It's peaceful music, but I really can't say it's anymore therapeutic than any other music, at this point. I'd give the CD three stars. New Agers are always making wild claims about their CDs; it's not just good music, it's \\"healing\\" and therefore better than standard pop music.	2003-08-10
US	49511895	R2YYMMAZPVBZJC	1579010008	924362508	Reverse Speech : Voices of the Unconscious (Examples Cassette Included)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	An Explanation for "Satanic" Backward Messages in Pop Songs	David John Oates has a controversial reputation especially after his legal battles with radio host Art Bell. He is an early pioneer in the discovery of reverse speech in which it is claimed than a person can say intelligible messages in reverse as he speaks forwards. These messages often reveal the subconscious of the speaker or what he is trying to hide. The messages are often metaphorical in nature, especially in pop songs when a singer may say something in reverse metaphorically about Jesus or Satan while singing a song. I thought this was an interesting explanation because I remember the backward message scare when I was teenager. A traveling minister came to our church one time and scared our socks off with his scary satanic backward messages from all my favorite rock albums. I got so scared I destroyed them--and then bought them all back a month later cause I missed all my favorite tunes. Funny stuff--I talked to some other guy one time that went through the same thing.   <br />It is suggested that reverse speech may be useful in therapy, politics, and law to find about deeper truths about what a person is saying. Oates explains his theories convincingly and gives persuasive examples of reverse speech and how he has helped others in therapy. <br />I've listened to some speech in reverse and I have been able to make out what seems to be intelligible speech when playing it backwards. Most of the messages have not been that coherent or revealing--although Oates claims one must practice for hours to learn how to listen to reverse speech.<br />I'm sure hardcore skeptics will be chagrined over the concept of reverse speech, but those willing to give the idea a chance will find it fascinating, even if eventually proves to be hogwash.	2003-08-10
US	49511895	R2FEWVF3ORBHJZ	0385265573	236204304	An Empire of Their Own: How the Jews Invented Hollywood	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Movie Jews Starring in Their Own Life Movie	Neal Gabler explores the lives of the founding movie moguls of Hollywood in this work which is at turns funny and sad. Most of the moguls never had a very good family life either growing up or growing old, but the stories of the business and oddities of Hollywood are amusing.<br />One of the most interesting of Gabler's points is that each head of the studio made a certain style of movie that reflected his personality--whether that would be Mayer's idealized America or the Warners' stories of tough outsiders, for instance. <br />Gabler gives interesting insights into the struggle between Edison and the Jewish independents over who would monopolize the distribution and equipment for the business. It is suggested that this was fight between protestants on one side, and Jews and Catholics on the other, given the ethnic make-up of the two camps. Edison eventually lost out over an anti-trust suit and the movie moguls went on to pretty much monopolize the business until they lost an anti-trust suit in 1948.<br />The reason why Jews have predominated in the movie business from the beginning was that in the early days of film, it was considered a slightly disreputable business to be in and white gentiles had no great desire to enter into a venture considered to be a novelty to make some fast cash. The Jewish businessmen saw the movies as something more than a novelty and sought to make them more high-brow by filming critically acclaimed plays and literary works. This was done also to bring in the middle class into their already working class customer base. <br />Gabler shows how many of the movie moguls wished to present themselves as totally assimilated Americans who made themselves over to look like the high class gentiles of the Eastern Establishment. But at the same time they saw themselves as Jews and their enemies saw them as Jews too. The years of blacklisting communists is covered in which some gentiles complained about the moguls employing communist Jewish writersfor their films. (The moguls themselves were Republican and many of their writers we're Jewish communists.)<br />Hollywood is shown to be place where there is no real friendship and materialism reigns. In their cutthroat business, those on top are celebrated as long as they stay successful and those who have fallen are forgotten. This rule even applies somewhat to the movie moguls of this era. Anyway, one gets the impression it's more fun to watch the movies than to be in the business of making them.	2003-08-02
US	49511895	RKNN4O48CD2DN	1566190428	237807427	The Arabian Nights	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Wonders And Treasure	This is a good introduction into the tales of the Arabian Nights. Most of the tales involve characters seeking gold and riches of some sort and being able to get them easily by the use of magic. There is also a lot of turnings and twistings of fate; characters go from fortune to misfortune or vice versa. There is not internal depth to the characters here; so don't expect any interior monologues or in depth conversations about relationships. It is like reading a movie script; lots of action and wonder and a lot of stock characterization.<br />Aladdin is the most well developed tale as I read about Aladdin's development from a street urchin to a prince and the perils he goes through to attain such a position and keep it. A money for beauty exchange is made as it is done in some of these tales; he sees the beautiful princess, he wants her, he gets the riches to attain her. Even today, not much has changed. <br />Ali Baba and The Forty Thieves is also good as I read about Ali's finding the thieve's stash and the many perils he goes through to get the riches and keep them with help of his trusty and clever female slave.<br />\\"Prince Agib\\" was a good allegory about human nature in which the prince is forbidden to open a certain door. If he does, he will have to leave the paradise he has found and all the beautiful maidens who dwell there.	2003-07-19
US	49511895	RWG2RQT0YTQPS	0936783214	1646350	The Federalist Papers In Modern Language: Indexed for Today's Political Issues	Books	3	13	27	N	N	Yet Another Boring, But Important Historical Document	Even with the modern language update, which I entirely support, reading the Federalist Papers is pretty dull affair that you almost have to force yourself to do. It is like reading an instruction booklet that never seems to end. The constitution is a legal document and the arguments are presented in the language of legalese. And we all know how much we are interested in the law and legal arguments--unless some has the peculiar mind of a lawyer, we don't have much interest in the law unless we're in court and are accused of a crime.   <br />Much of the book deals with the nuts-and-bolts practicalities of designing a new working government. Some of the issues covered don't have much bearing on our constitutional issues today. But the book does give the reader some insight into how complicated it is to set up a new government. Issues such as whether to have more than one person in the executive are of some interest. Or how important it is to have separation of the executive, legislative, and judicial powers in a government to avoid tyranny. Some of the arguments deal with the paranoia going about at the time that some people thought that making a new constitution would take all their rights away. <br />One of the main arguments is that it is important that the country be unified under a strong central government in order to avoid wars and economic competition between the states and it is interesting to note that the civil war was mainly fought over preventing the south from becoming an economic competitor to the north, in my opinion. <br />The book gets more interesting near the end as the three separate powers are covered and their various functions and limits are discussed. The difference between what a president's powers are as opposed to a king's was memorable chapter. The Judiciary is noted as the weakest branch, but I would say that in modern times, it's too strong and corrupt, given that the judges make rulings that have no relation to the constitution and tendto block the legitimate will of the people. The centralized state has also become too strong when compared to the rights of the states and the people, something that the authors of the Federalist Papers did not foresee.   <br />I have no problem with the editing of the book; much was done to make the book easier to read. I think there are probably more modern commentaries on the constitution that deal with today's issues that would be of more interest to the modern reader. --Hey, can someone put some these old classics and philosophers in updated language too?	2003-07-15
US	49511895	R3RL55RHTHD7AT	0759672229	983733465	The Culture of Critique: An Evolutionary Analysis of Jewish Involvement in Twentieth-Century Intellectual and Political Movements	Books	5	46	53	N	N	MacDonald Critiques Critics of White Gentile Civilization	Kevin MacDonald's Culture of Critique goes over Jewish intellectual movements that critique Western Civilization. A lot of the movements are based on pseudo-intellectualism that emphasizes political rhetoric that sounds scientific, but ultimately is not based on any scientific experimentation. MacDonald exposes the falsities of such \\"intellectuals\\" as Freud and the psychoanalysts, Franz Boas and the radical enviromental sociologists, Hannah Arendt's Origins of Totalitarianism, Stephen Gould's Mismeasure of Man. <br />MacDonald shows how that Jews generally have felt alienated from gentile society and have viewed it as racist, unjust, and sick. Their anti-gentile sentiments have had an influence on the political atmosphere of Western nations as they have tried to make the West more multi-cultural while still retaining a stong group cohesion. As they keep their own cohesion, they wish to break down the racial cohesion of whites by their intellectual movements that emphasize anti-racism and sexual license. Freud's psychoanalysis movement is viewed by MacDonald as a method in which to break down the high investment parenting of white gentiles by getting them to become more promiscuous and less interested in forming strong families. <br />MacDonald's greatest strength is his thorough documentation of these intellectual movements to back up his thesis. The reader will have a different view of the political changes that have occurred during the twentieth century. MacDonald predicts that white gentiles may become more collective in the future in order to preserve their race and culture. I think that many white gentiles after reading this book will be angry at these various jewish intellectuals and many jewish readers will be angry at MacDonald. This is a divisive work.<br />I thought may have missed a few rogue intellectual movements though. He could have targeted the jewish influence on feminism and our economic, monetary, and foreign policies. I also thought that is the west is so universal and assimilationist as MacDonald claims, then multiculturalism would not be such a controversial movement.	2003-07-05
US	49511895	R2QJRAYKNN5E4F	1561706086	776971659	The Indigo Children: The New Kids Have Arrived	Books	3	59	66	N	N	Raising Indigo Children	The authors Lee Carroll and Jan Tober attempt to prove that children diagnosed with ADD may actually be indigo children who will transform society into a new age of peace and love, from what I gather. <br />Some examples of children being indigo children made them seem like typical kids: one didn't want to read Mark Twain for school because he wasn't interested; another didn't want to study history because the present was all that mattered to him. The authors want to revamp the schools to accommodate indigo children. <br />I thought the authors could have spent more time on explaining what indigos are, what their characteristics are, and what their purpose is. I thought they should have spent more time explaining their color theory of people having different colored auras and how these auras affect what type of person they are and what their purpose is. Although the book has a lot of contributors with all kinds of professional credentials, I thought the content was fluffy at times and the reading level and the sophistication of the content lower than it should have been in order for it to be an in-depth study of indigos. <br />The book is geared toward the parents of ADD \\"indigo\\" children and gives advice on how to raise them, mainly saying that one should treat them with same respect as you would give an adult and explain your reasons for having the children do certain things. Some of the suggestions I thought were to complicated and idealistic to be useful. When there is serious discipline problem with a child and you're being tested and rebelled against, most likely you're going to fight fire with fire, not be some sort of wise, angelic, calm being who gently persuades the child to conform to your wishes. <br />I thought some of the references for new age healing and alternative schools were interesting and of some value. Some of the personal testimony from indigos on being indigo was a highlight also. --But who knows? These special indigo children may just be typical kids behaving badly worsened by the fact that parents may not be parenting as attentively as they used to do in the past with both of them working full time and putting their kids in the care of strangers in day care centers.<br />Maybe as time passes and this phenomenon proves to be real, someone will write a definitive, in-depth, classic work on indigos. I think it may be too early to do that at this time.	2003-06-27
US	49511895	R2NXKN8LOKRVY8	0929408179	78166543	Civil War Two: The Coming Breakup of America	Books	5	64	71	N	N	The Resurgence of Tribalism in America	Author Thomas Chittum has written a scary account of civil war that might break out in America. He has been a soldier of fortune in various conflicts and looks at social events from a military perspective. He has a sweeping knowledge of ethnic conflict and revolutions around the globe and uses such examples of conflict to prove his point that America may soon face an ethnic civil war.    One of his main points is that most countries that are multi-ethnic usually have ethnic-based civil wars. Countries that are almost mono-ethnic do not. He gives examples of such countries. Once a country's majority ethnic group dips below 70 percent serious ethnic troubles begin. He gives warning signs of what these ethnic troubles will be and how they signal a coming civil war.    According to Chittum, America is fast turning into an undemocratic, multi-ethnic empire that is inherently unstable, unlike mono-ethnic nations. The elite upper class intends to break the power of the white working class in America and make them serfs in a multi-ethnic empire by using what he calls \\"racist\\" affirmative action, gun confiscation, and uncontrolled immigration and its attendant wage deterioration. He believes that this elite plan to control America in such a way will not work and eventually America will have a civil war.    Chittum shows the areas in which he thinks that the multi-ethnic empire will split into and advises people to go to where their ethnic group will be. He gives other survivalist tips for the coming civil war. He has some great quotes about human nature and the nature of war and has some gallows humor sprinkled throughout the book. The coming civil war will be vicious, he says, given the vast differences between the combatants and inability to give land away peacefully because of the mixing of ethnic groups in the same territory. He says it will be a lot like the war in the Balkans.	2003-06-21
US	49511895	R2TPLB1KXLOGTC	0521795389	488902368	Esau's Tears: Modern Anti-Semitism and the Rise of the Jews	Books	5	24	31	N	N	Toward a More Balanced View of Anti-Semitism	Author Albert Lindemann has written a history of anti-Semitism that attempts to explain some of the animosity towards Jews, without blaming Jews for that animosity. He argues that books like Hitler's Willing Executioners are polemical in nature trying to convince people what an awful thing \\"hate\\" is without giving an objective view of what the tensions between Jews and Gentiles are all about. Lindemann looks at the ambivalence of attitudes towards Jews of many of the people labelled wholly anti-Semitic by later historians. Lindemann certainly does not believe that there was a rise of anti-Semitism from the late 1800s on that culminated with the Holocaust that many other historians attest to. He says the World War 2 itself opened up opportunities for the Nazis to implement the Holocaust. Lindemann believes in the Holocaust and the death count of six million Jews, but he also gives some examples of Jews sometimes exaggerating atrocities against them in other cases.<br />Lindemann is willing to admit that the unethical behavior of some Jews causes anti-Semitism and anti-Semites are not suffering from delusional fantasies, as is often claimed. He says that anti-Semites get their views from reality and then also exaggerate with a mix of fantasy also. He thinks that Jews since the Enlightenment has helped modernize the economy of different nations, working in the professions. He says the rise of Jews brought with it corruption, but also progress, and you cannot have one without the other. He says that many a complaint of anti-Semites are plausible, but not justifiable. He could have elaborated some more on what he meant by that statement.<br />Lindemann also gives examples of Jews in the press mocking the culture of the \\"commoners\\", such as in turn of the century Vienna and examples of some Jews stating that they wish to make the culture around them more Jewish since some consider themselves \\"a light unto the nations\\". Lindemann also goes over the issue of Jews being over-represented in positions of cultural influence, financial crimes, radical and subversive movements, draft-dodging, and other things that irritate anti-Semites; he gives plausible reasons as to why that is, such as high verbal intelligence and being disloyal to host countries that did not treat them well. Some of the anti-Semites' complaints can be attributed to envy and rivalry, knowing that these former Jewish losers are winning against the Gentiles.	2003-06-21
US	49511895	RHYM9GCYQ58F4	0375707190	266746837	Millennials Rising: The Next Great Generation	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The New Kids On the Block	The authors William Strauss and Neil Howe continue with their theories about history being affected by different generations because of the the way the generations are raised behave a certain way. This time they focus on the youthful Millennial generation which they say will be quite unlike Gen X or the Boomers. They say they will be more conformist and better behaved than these other generations because they have been raised in a heavily monitored environment in which team playing is emphasized. Their weakness may be that they could be become big brother's dream children since they may be unable to think or act independently from the group, even when their peer group may be going in the wrong direction.     Strauss and Howe's theories seem to have justification, but there are other theories that historians and social scientists have come up with and the authors do not address the validity of these theories very much. One being that a civilization rises to its peak with traditional values and then falls apart gradually by rejecting these traditional values for new gods and liberalism. It would have been interesting to have them react to such a theory. I also thought that by not addressing other theories of civilizational history, it made their some of their comments on the increasing multiculturalization of America seem  naive at times. Given the previous theory I have mentioned, such multiculturation of America will cause its decline, not improve it.     This book is one of their more entertaining books that I have read by them. They have sidebar comments from millennials and about millennials that are amusing and interesting much of the time. They also have funny cartoons about millennials throughout the book. This makes the book more interesting than other books of social analysis.    Strauss and Howe say that the millennials will be the next hero generation that may be asked to fight another total war. That may be so, but in a way, I hope not. The more I study history, the more I learn that the wars we fight are usually total rackets and unjustified, no matter how much they are glorified afterwards because our soldiers sacrifice themselves in them. True heroic citizens stay informed and skeptical and make sure that the government is not hoodwinking them into another useless war.     That being said this is still a useful book and I use the authors' theories all the time when analyzing events, social institutions, and the arts and entertainment.	2003-06-01
US	49511895	R2UWSXPMKCQIME	0800750543	82734088	The Light and the Glory	Books	5	104	117	N	N	Part Sermon, Part History	Authors Peter Marshall and David Manuel admit from the beginning that they are not really writing a history book exactly. They are giving what they perceive as historical examples of America being a Christian Nation guided by God to fulfill its destiny in God's plan as a Puritan City on A Hill or a New Israel. Millions of Americans both past and present have believed in such a destiny and these authors present this view well. Are they biased? Yes. But not anymore than Marxist, revisionist, feminist, or multi-cultural historians. My advice is read history from several viewpoints as you search for the truth. Try to avoid that inevitable destination to which we all finally find rest, comfort, and joy--self-righteous smugness and arrogant certainty.    I think their book is targeted for a mostly teenage audience to impress impressionable minds, but adults can read it and not insulted intellectually. It just seems a bit simplistic at times when compared to other histories I've read.    The authors begin with Christopher Columbus's voyage to America. They mention Columbus's belief that he was destined to find a land in which he would bring the light of Christianity to the heathen. (A more cynical interpretation would be that Columbus was merely a conquerer imposing his religious beliefs on the native subjects, but the authors are not taking that route.) Strange incidences are mentioned in which Columbus chose the lot among about 30 men to go on a pilgramage more than once during storms which threaten to sink the ship. This lot-choosing for taking a pilgramage to a shrine was seen as a way of appeasing the Lord. In fact, the authors use incidences in history as examples of God's providence or testing, or the devil's meddling or tempting the people of God to choose right or wrong. Storms such as natural events often don't happen by mere chance according to the authors, especially during some important historical event that is affected by that natural event.    I thought theauthors covered the Puritan leaders really well. John Winthop was a particularly important figure in American history because he was largely responsible for successfully starting and leading the Puritan colony and making it a success. He made everyone, gentlemen or not, roll up their sleeves and get to work on building the colony. This colony is contrasted with the struggling colony in Virginia which was harmed by bad leadership. Kudos to God and blame to sinners is given along the way.     I got the impression that the Puritan Roger Williams was a character. He wanted to be really, really, really pure before the eyes of God. So much so that he even became an annoyance even to the Puritans. When they tried to correct the error of his fanatical ways, he would always resort to the argument that they were violating his freedom of conscience. He could always brilliantly reason his way out of being reproved. Finally, he went off to Rhode Island to a colony of people who were dissidents bordering on crankdom like himself and they were a terrible annoyance to him--I found it an amusing account of folly of fanaticism.    Anne Hutchison, was another Puritan character who became a heretic. She believed that whatever on her mind was the voice of God talking to her. She began preaching unbiblical ideas which got her banished from the colony.     The authors take pains to present the Puritans as NOT the tired, old killjoys that some people, probably pleasure addicts, libertines and hedonists, have described them as. They give examples of Puritans partying and telling jokes, all within the limits of righteousness, of course. The authors give them a break from the relentless criticism--I think the Puritans deserve one.     Religious leaders and great preachers are covered in the book. The evangelist George Whitefield during the Great Awakening was the era's greatest soul-winner. Sometimes he would have crowds up to 30,000 listening to him in nearly complete silence. It's remarkable to think about in era before microphones. His preaching helped God save the souls of whole towns on occassion. He would preach as many as four sermons a day and worked everyday. Though he kept an exhausting schedule on his tour of various towns, he never quit until he dropped dead.    Some of the natural events do seem to more than just coincidences. The famous fog that gave cover to George Washington and his cornered troops during the Revolutionary War is one example. Although it had been clear and not rainy previously, a fog appeared in the early morning hours to help the American troops to escape from the British who had them right where they wanted them.     The authors cover the beginnings of a culture war between secular rationalists such as Thomas Jefferson and fervent fundamentalist believers such as George Washington. Jefferson was a deist and a Unitarian that didn't believe in miracles or the divinity of Christ. He thought that Jesus was merely a great moral teacher.     The authors cover the period from Columbus's arrival to America to the beginnings of the Constitutional Republic. I've just picked a few events and people of interest to me. This is a good book for anyone wanting to study the Christian roots of the United States.	2003-05-01
US	49511895	R3288TWZUDGG0W	0275948706	264196650	Separation and Its Discontents: Toward an Evolutionary Theory of Anti-Semitism	Books	5	96	112	N	N	More Research on The Age-Old Jew/Gentile Conflict	Kevin MacDonald explores the Jew/Gentile conflict from the late Roman era to the present in this volume. He thinks that gentiles turn to collectivism in response to Jewish collectivism in order to protect themselves from exploitation. In the Late Roman empire, Christianity established itself as a strongly anti-Semitic religion in its theology. As Christians gained power in civic government, they passed laws to limit Jewish exploitation of gentile Christians such as laws forbidding Jews to own Christian slaves or Christian female servants. This is not to say that the formerly Pagan Rome was not anti-Semitic, but that Christian Rome may have been more systematic in its anti-Semitism, from what I gathered from reading this section. Pagan Rome's main complaint against Jews was their resistance to assimilating into the universalist culture of Rome. <br />MacDonald covers the complaints of anti-Semites against Jews in various ages such as the Middle Ages which he views as another age in which Christianity and the church turned towards collectivism to combat the political and economic power of the Jews, especially the Marranos, those Jews in Spain especially, who were pressured into converting to Christianity as a way of forcing them to assimilate. It didn't work. The Marranos were mostly crypto-Jews that professed Christianity outwardly, but still married other Marrano Jews and practiced Jewish rituals secretly and generally shunned Christian rituals when they could. This generally confirmed Judaism as a religion based on keeping the purity of the Jewish race. Jews became upwardly mobile in this period within the church and civil society, but still were not truly Christian. This resistance provoked the Inquisition against them in which the Church was trying to test out the sincerity of the Marranos' belief in Christianity. <br />MacDonald explores German National Socialism as a mirror image strategy against Judaism as an evolutionary stategy. Both were concerned with eugenics and collectivism to achieve group goals. Both belief systems practically made a religion out of race. He views the Nazis as anti-Western in its beliefs because they go against traditional Western ways of universalism and assimilation. Jewish intellectuals such as Benjamin Disraeli are quoted showing the prevalence of the belief in Jewish racial superiority at the time leading up to Nazi Germany. Gentile philosophers such Houston Stewart Chamberlain mirrored such beliefs in the racial superiority of Gentiles. He heavily influenced Hitler. National Socialism is seen as a reaction against Enlightenment policies in which Jews were to be given full rights as citizens if they assimulated totally into German society. The hoped-for assimulation did not occur as the Jews gained more power in German society and hence there was a National Socialist reaction against the Jews.<br />MacDonald explores the ways in which Jews combat anti-Semitism by breaking down the dominant culture of American society by marginalizing Christianity in the public realm, such as the Jewish-dominated ACLU trying to limit Christianity in the public realm under the guise of separation of church and state. They also use crypsis, not revealing themselves as Jews by changing their names or not revealing the Jewish character of their movements. MacDonald mentions the Jews as the only ethnic group that pushed hard to changed pre-1965 immigration laws to open up immigration to America to non-European races and cultures. This process has a way of breaking down the cultural dominance of white gentiles for the benefit of Jewish aims. <br />MacDonald thinks the idea that Jews are actually Khazarites is most likely a myth. He says that Jews used the \\"history of the Khazarites as Jews\\" for ideological purposes in a previous age. I have observed some people are using this \\"history\\" to claim that the Jews have no claim or connection to Israel.<br />MacDonald covers Jewish deception and self-deception as a meansfor them to manipulate a host society to their own ends while rationalizing that are not actually doing that. Many Jews see themselves as a chosen people who are morally superior to others; they provide a shining moral example for other ethnic groups to follow. To Jews, Jewish aims are not for them, but for the benefit of rest of society.<br />MacDonald explores the idea that the Jews may be assimulating so much that they may cease to be a distinct ethnic group. He mentions that Jews throughout history have been considered \\"an ever-dying race\\" but his general conclusion could be summed up as \\"reports of their death are largely exaggerated.\\" There is always a hard core of Jews that remain racially pure and don't assimilate even though the outer core may do so.<br />This is another excellent book by MacDonald for those who have wondered why Jews and Gentiles don't get along very well and why the relationship between the groups is so strange.	2003-04-21
US	49511895	RULX38BON65WA	0812036387	43217624	Hamlet	Books	3	5	8	N	N	Not one of Shakespheare's most accessible works	Hamlet is one of Shakespheare's more complex plays, which doesn't exactly make it more enjoyable, although I recommend reading it for its famous \\"to be or not to be\\" speech. After reading a few of the bard's plays, his patterns, conceits, and crutches begin to emerge. Often he has characters comtemplating suicide or mortality like Hamlet does in the play; he usually has a dead body pile-up at the end of the play; he often favors poison as as a means to kill his characters off; there is usually a bit of court intrigue or underhanded dealing which leads to disaster, and he likes to have characters go mad.<br />Hamlet feigns madness in this play and after reading it four times, I still don't know why he does this. As far as I can tell, he doesn't really say. If this is a strategic move, it is a bad one, because it only makes his uncle King Claudius, who has killed Hamlet's father and married his mother, more suspicious that Hamlet knows of his committing this \\"murder most foul\\" and is upset by it. There are a lot of madness scenes in the play in which different characters try to figure out why Hamlet is upset--Is it because of his girlfriend Ophelia's feigned rejection of him? Or is it the death of his father and quick marraige of his mother to his uncle? Or does he know something about the murder of his father? I thought there were too many scenes like this which made the play overly long. Since there was no explanation for Hamlet's madness, the whole conceit of having him feign madness left me confused.<br />I also thought that the characters weren't very appealing in this play. Most of the time the play is focused on Hamlet and his indecisiveness about killing off King Claudius because of his lack of courage, even though he was a war hero. Much of Hamlet's brooding over the matter isn't particularly interesting and tends to slow the play down to a standstill. I suppose he was afraid of being accused of treason since Hamlet only knows about the murder of his father by way of his father's ghost--he has no evidence. Finally near the end, Claudius plots against Hamlet's life, which backfires and Hamlet gets his revenge even as he is dying.<br />Probably the most difficult part of the play is the middle in which Hamlet puts on a play that is very much like the reality of King Claudius killing off Hamlet's father. This is done to see whether Claudius looks or acts guilty during the play. It seems Hamlet does not totally trust his father's ghost's revelation that his father has been killed and he needs further confimation. This middle part refers the Aenied in which Pyrrhus hesitates to kill Priam, just like Hamlet hesitates to kill Claudius-get it? I had to read this passage several times to learn its significance. This middle part also contains a lot of in-jokes about the theatre business at the time which seemed self-indulgent to me.<br />There is also another confusing part of the play in which references to battles and a coming war are made at the beginning and a warring noble named Fortinbras shows up near the end to ascend the throne as king after Hamlet dies. I don't think these scenes were necessary.<br />Shakespheare writes often in a high poetic style that I'm  generally biased against--to me it comes off as stilted when compared to having characters speak in a more normal conversational manner. --Hey, but thank Providence for modern language translation of Shakespheare; I don't think I could have made it on my own without it. It's the best thing since guitar tab, bicycle training wheels, and pocket calculators! I suppose there will be those who say that you've got to read everything in the original language to really understand the text, but until I thoroughly bone up on Greek, Latin, Arabic, Old and Middle English, Russian and French, modern English is good enough for me. <br />Here ends my rather cheeky review of the Bard's Hamlet. I hope I'm not haunted by his ghost just for explaining why I didn't like the play that much.	2003-04-10
US	49511895	R1CTKV1XRVVASS	0971933405	826059563	Happiness Is Free: And It's Easier Than You Think!	Books	3	39	83	N	N	But This Book Isn't Free	Happiness is Free written by Hale Dwoskin and Lester Levenson is a self-improvement book that relies heavily on Buddhism. I don't think the Buddhists of India are any happier than the secular people of America, but apparently the authors think that one should go east spiritually for happiness. <br />The book starts out with an interesting account of the first half of the life of Lester Levenson who had all his material and romantic needs fulfilled at least at first glance, but alas, he was still unhappy and deathly ill even though he was successful in a worldly way. He examined the source of his unhappiness and found that it was because he wanted to change the world, but couldn't. He found in his unhappiness that the best way to become supremely happy was to imagine himself loving other people selflessly, even his enemies. He also put this selfless love into action, doing for others, but wanting nothing in return. He states that there is no need for politics, although it seems important, if everyone has love for each other since we are all basically one. That's what the new agers say, but I must say critics can come with some powerful arguments against such reasoning or lack of reasoning. Indeed, a left-brainer could easily dismiss much of the philosophy in this book as irrational and naive. <br />The book goes on to explore how we can create our own reality. Since we are the 'All of reality' and not really separate from it, the authors come up with Zen-like paradoxical mantras to help one achieve enlightenment such as \\"I am separate from the All, I am the All; or \\"I am loving, I am love\\"; or \\"There are problems, everything is perfect\\" and other such new age mind games. The authors encourage us to be skeptical, which I have no trouble being. There is also a mind exercise of loving and then hating a person, place, or thing as much as possible by asking yourself, \\"Can I hate (whatever) as much as possible?--Can I love it as best I can?\\" This supposedly makes one feelhappier. After trying the various exercises, I can't really say I'm feeling it. Maybe a little. I'm fairly content right now anyway. Hey, but if this your bag, grab it. <br />I think that I've been happiest experiencing some pleasure, which usually costs money to indulge in. I don't think I've been happiest loving people, although every once in a great while, I meet some charming person whose pleasant company and mindset I like, at least for awhile. I think it is best to not indulge oneself too long in sad feelings, otherwise you going down the road to destruction. And don't expect more than life can give. That's my pragmatic advice, anyway.	2003-04-08
US	49511895	R2QLZR6WFA3VSZ	0688119123	668306003	Generations: The History of America's Future, 1584 to 2069	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Heroes, but Fools	Authors Neil Howe and William Strauss explore the history of American generation more in depth than in their other book The Fourth Turning. Generations is most valuable for giving the reader insight into the mind set and behavior of different generations and how they react to one another. It gives you a greater understanding of people, generations, and how they affect history. Strauss and Howe take a diplomatic approach in their evaluation of different generations stating that they have their strengths and weaknesses and hence I came up with the above title for the review to describe the book. <br />A basic explanation of their theory is that history moves by seasons from spring to winter. In spring, there is a civilizational high of good behavior, peace, and prosperity but also stultifying conformity and spiritual deadness. In summer, there is a consciousness revolution, in which the younger generation rebels against their elders and their institutions. In fall, there is an unraveling in which people turn inwards and focus on their private satisfactions and let public institutions and the community values fall into neglect. In winter, there is a crisis of usually war or economic depression that forces everyone to become more communal and morally strict again.<br />The generations are of 4 types. A prophet generation is born in a civilization high of springtime. They are inwardly focused on spiritual values. They rebel in youth, but become morally authoritarian in old age during a crisis. A nomad generation is born in a summer of consciousness revolution and aren't raised very well since their elder parents are more focused on themselves than their children. This generation is considered a lost or bad generation in which crime and immorality increase with its rising. A hero generation is born in the fall of an unraveling; they become the heroes during a crisis when they are young adults. An artist generation is born during a crisis; they are a meek and mild generation who are sensitive to other's needs and are indecisive as leaders.<br />When reading the book I couldn't help noting that a prophet generation often generates an unneeded crisis to solve. President George W. Bush is of a prophet generation and I kept thinking of him as a prime example of that, making Saddam Hussein to be bigger threat than he really is. I also made judgements against the artist's generations emphasis of plurality and diversity and the expense of cultural cohesion. I made judgements against the hero generation for hogging most of the public spending on themselves, letting young people fend for themselves. I made judgements against my own nomad generations for their excessive love of tasteless entertainment and general down in the dumps depression and negativity.<br />It was also interesting to note that during civilizational crisis and high, society is generally anti-female and pro-male in its outlook. In a consciousness revolution and an unraveling, it is general pro-female and anti-male. Depending on the times, people will general espouse philosophies that celebrate or denigrate either sex. <br />The current generations now living in large numbers are the G.I. elders who are heroes passing on, the Artistic Silent generation who are in elderhood, the Prophetic Baby Boomers who are entering elderhood, The Nomadic Gen Xer's who are beginning to enter middle-age, and Heroic Millennials who are beginning to move into rising adulthood. A new artistic/compromiser generation will eventually replace Millennials in the youth category.<br />A heroic generation usually values conformity over individualism and they tend to be rationalistic and secular. They build public institutions and generally are young adults during a prosperous, optimistic age. An Artist generation is known for its high educational level and professional expertise. A Prophet genereration is known for its focus on inward idealistic spiritual values and its weakening educational levels. ANomad generation is known as pragmatic, cynical, unbelieving, pessimistic and poorly educated generation who are middle-aged technical managers of a crisis era. They are wild as kids and young adults, but cautious and reactionary as older people. Each generation rebels against the values of the others, which has a tendency to balance out any excesses given to any one value.<br />The authors give famous examples of different generational types, some of which fit the type while others don't. The ones that don't are interesting to note: Norman Rockwell, that creator of wholesome Americana art was from the bad Lost generation. He seems more like Hero generational type. Andrew Jackson, that Southern hell-raiser who chased a rival with a knife in the days of his youth was of the supposedly meek and mild Artist/Compromiser generation. He seems more like a Bad/ Nomadic generational type.	2003-04-02
US	49511895	R1PQVJ9KX9S15E	0812035844	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Fun and Frivolous	On the first read, I thought this was really silly stuff, but on the second read I thought it had some of Shakespheare's best romantic poetry in it.<br />This story contains yet another authoritarian father of Shakespheare's creation, Egeus, telling his daughter Hermia who she will marry (Demetrius) and not marry (Lysander). There is also her sister Helena who is in love with Demetrius, but Demetrius does not love her. Enter the fairies, mainly Oberon and his servant Puck who muck things up further by enchanting Lysander and Demetrius into falling in love with Helena instead of their previous darling girl Hermia. Tension ensues as Helena thinks that she is being mocked and Hermia thinks that Helena has stolen away her men. Puck and the fairies eventually right things by enchanting Demetrius to match up with Hermia and Lysander with Helena.<br />There is a subplot with working class rustics who try to put on a play of Pyramus and Thisbe, two lovers that die tragically. (Imagine construction workers putting on a romantic play, for modern day comparison.) The leader Snug and his company of Bottom, Quince, Flute, Snout, and Starveling prepare a play at night in the woods and the mischievous fairy Puck attaches a donkey's posterior to Bottom's head and makes the queen fairy Titania fall in love with him and his fine feature. Eventually, Puck reverses this predicament before the night is over.<br />Bottom and company put on the play in the last act for the nobles of city who are Theseus, Duke of Athens, and his company of the soon to be married nobles Demetrius and Hermia and Lysander and Helena, among others. The play is so bad it's comical. The usual tragic romantic deaths in plays like Romeo and Juliet are parodied in this act. In fact, this play seems to be what Romeo and Juliet would have been if it were turned into a comedy.<br />As with most Shakespheare's plays this is better seen than read. The love rectangle is confusing at first given the similar names of Helena and Hermia and the switching match-ups. Not much mentally to chew on here, other than the observation that one can often love someone, but they don't love you back and it's frustrating.a and Hermia and the switching match-ups. Not much mentally to chew on here, other than the observation that one can often love someone, but they don't love you back and it's frustrating.	2003-04-02
US	49511895	R1RYLR6LMVJSGX	0465006930	474391997	The Bell Curve Wars: Race, Intelligence, and the Future of America (New Republic Book)	Books	5	34	58	N	N	The Other Side Reacts	This is actually an interesting reaction to the findings of the Bell Curve and I enjoyed reading the articles to see how they would attack the foundations of Hernstein and Murray's thinking. I think it's good to read several viewpoints on a subject and then make up an informed opinion from there. The arguments presented against The Bell Curve's conclusions will have to be answered by more scientific testing. I do agree that none of these people who disagree with the book are running their own scientific tests and coming up with factual conclusions that contradict The Bell Curve findings. --Who has  the pseudo-science? Only time will tell.    Egalitarians have emotional reasons for accepting the conclusions that they do. They do not want to accept a rigid determinism that would suggest that improving the environment of a group of deficient learners is futile and will not improve IQs. They do not want to accept the tag of permanent inferiority. On the other hand, determinists may have emotional reasons for accepting their conclusions; they do not want to accept the conclusions that if some group has a low IQ, it is the result of white racism that whites are guilty of.     Although egalitarians speak evil against determinists, egalitarian viewpoints on race have their own detrimental results by loading whites down with guilt and shame that may not be their fault and filling blacks with resentment against whites for problems that may be their own responsibility.    One effective argument against The Bell Curve was a mentioning ofHernstein and Murray's hasty dismissal of counter-evidence against their theories such as the testing of black and white children of white mothers in Germany that ended up with the same IQ scores. Another argument suggests that there really is no rising of a cognitive elite in America. Others give anecdotal evidence of people who did brilliantly in school but ended up in mediocre careers suggesting that high IQ does not spell success. (The BellCurve authors agree with this conclusion.) It is also mentioned that H and M could have focused on white differences in IQ, such as white ethnic group differences in completion of college graduation, or IQ differences between southern and northern American whites. H and M are accused of not confronting these white differences as much because that would be too politically divisive.        One argument says that the H and M's conclusions are pseudo-science and that such \\"science\\" has occurred before in history, suggesting the inferiority of blacks to justify the unequal status quo and that this pseudo-science is actually hate literature. (I'm generally against defining conclusions as hate speech because it censors free inquiry. It's too easy to define heretical ideas that someone doesn't like as 'hate\\" and then get the government to censor them.) Hernstein and Murray are also portrayed as neo-social Darwinists in one essay; they present ideas that give credence to the belief in the survival of the fittest ethnic group and the inability to raise up a lower ethnic group to a higher level.    Another argument was that there are multiple intelligences that can't be measured by just taking a test. Some wondered what was being measured in an IQ test. What is this mysterious \\"G\\" (general intelligence) that H and M talk about? Some said that the historically bad environment that blacks have lived in has lead them to be culturally deprived and more money must be invested to improve deficient IQs. There is also some evidence the black/white gap in IQ is closing. Blacks are improving and whites are staying the same. Of course, one could argue that the whites should be improving also and something is wrong with the education system if it is not. Some of the argumentation is dauntingly technical and although a layman can get the gist of the argument, the details may go over his head.	2003-03-10
US	49511895	R17IQKV578P2GO	0195101960	831767435	A Short History of Philosophy	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Philosophy to Go	Authors Solomon and Higgins have written a very readable history of philosophy matching philosopher's names with a brief explanation of their pet concepts. They cover too much ground really; by the time I finished the book, I had been exposed to so many ideas and philosophers that I remembered hardly any of them. They should have just covered the major philosophers of one period in depth if they expected many readers to remember anything. But this is a good reference book; I wrote some philosophers down and maybe I may read a couple of their primary works over a lifetime. This is also a good book for the intellectually lazy but mildly curious people who want to be exposed to philosophy without having to go through the pain of reading the profound primary sources. Higgins and Solomon have already done that for you; they have allegedly read these philosophers' books and have reported back with bit-sized morsels of information about their different philosophies. Some of the philosophies seem important, others might leave you wondering why anyone would waste a lifetime worrying about such a subject.<br />Many different kinds of philosphers are covered whether they be boring, charismatic, bolshevik, dangerous, obfuscating, bloodless, blasphemous, godly, mathematical, humanistic, elitest, egalitarian, arrogant, irritable, humble, obscure, famous, rich, poor, establishment, anti-establishment, heretical, dogmatic, flexible, incomprehensible, annoying, pleasant, hypocritical, scientific, kooky, or intellectually dishonest. I don't really have time to explain all of them in depth.	2003-02-25
US	49511895	R94VADGKTCU6B	1566633370	805962597	The Burden of Bad Ideas: How Modern Intellectuals Misshape Our Society	Books	5	28	39	N	N	The Soothing Voice of Sanity In An Insane World	Heather MacDonald is a great journalist who writes mostly for the City Journal of New York. Living in New York, she gets to examine malaise and social decay up close and personal. She always presents herself as the sensible conservative covering the folly of liberal policies. The Burden of Bad Ideas shows that liberal philosophies of society's elites are adversely affecting the less capable of society. One does not who to hold accountable first, the elites with their bad ideas or the poor who follow them. MacDonald especially makes the point that comtemporary policies often don't work because they do not take into account any moral considerations. This lack of moral judgement leads to bad policy and encourages bad behavior. <br />I got the impression while reading that MacDonald is witnessing an insidious bolshevik takeover of America with its tools of anti-white racism to destroy that race and anti-white male sexism to destroy its men. These bolsheviks try to equalize everything whether it's ideas, people, incomes, lifestyles, morality, culture, sexes, intellects, or races despite evidence that we still live and always will live in hierarchical world. The technique is to denigrate the superior and uplift or not judge the inferior. Although she does not say this in so many words; these are my own impressions. <br />Many of her articles cover the public assistance system in which the policy is not to make judgements between the deserving and undeserving poor, as was done sensibly in the past. Not making judgements bankrolls immoral behavior such as illegitimate births, drug use, child abuse, professional homelessness, and promiscuity with its consequent STDs; this makes the problem worse since the behavior is encouraged if it is paid for. Organizations such as the Ford Foundation have wasted millions of dollars on making the public assistance problem worse by bankrolling irresponsible behavior. <br />MacDonald examines how education fads are destroying and warping students' minds with frivolous courses such as Hip Hop 101 in which students are encouraged to paint the neighborhood illegally with graffiti. I think the purpose of some educrats is to dumb down education so far that everyone passes and everyone is therefore equal. If hard courses were introduced, then some would do better than others, and of course, that must mean someone is oppressing the Other.<br />The Smithsonian Museum has gone PC trying to denigrate white Western culture and uplift every other culture besides that one. In Law School, we now have very touchy professors who now wear their race and gender identities on their sleeve and spend a lot of time \\"proving\\" how oppressed they are while insulting and psychologically attacking whites and men.<br />One last article covers law and order in New York City during the Diallo case in which a victim was accidently shot by the police. Al Sharpton and the rest of his charade including Hollywood celebrities tried to bring the tea kettle to boil with fake \\"designer protests\\". Meanwhile the folks back home in the neighborhoods generally like the police and believe in law and order because it keeps the drug lords off the streets. But New York Times kept the drum beat going for \\"justice\\" and therefore got some innocent readers in a resentful mood over the police because they naturally expect a paper to tell it like it is and not to advocate for trumped-up injustices.<br />MacDonald does a great job showing us the problem and a okay job suggesting solutions; the solutions part is usually given minimal space and it is more generalized than detailed, but it is morally correct in a good way. It is amazing how bizarre some of the reports were; I can only hope she is picking the worst cases and not just taking a representative samples.	2003-02-11
US	49511895	R1DFWM9KCAXQXN	0812035720	43217624	Romeo and Juliet (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	4	6	19	N	N	Passions lead to Death and Disorder	Romeo and Juliet is about stupid kids in love who make bad decisions about who they will marry and are too naive to consider the political implications of marrying a person from the enemy family. I thought it was interesting that Romeo and Juliet's marraige is set up in secret by irresponsible and foolish adults (the nurse and Friar Lawrence) who don't notify the parents what is being done. This bucking of parental wisdom and authority is what gets the ball rolling toward disaster.<br />Like King Lear, Juliet's father, Capulet, is highly patriarchal and authoritarian; both of them threaten to disown their daughters if they don't do as they say. Both consider their daughters ungrateful. In Capulet's case, he says he has spent so much time and effort into setting up an arranged marraige with Paris, that Juliet should not refused such a good and well-considered choice given that Paris in wealthy, noble, handsome, and friends with the family. It is interesting to note that the arranged marraige is a wise choice for Juliet and Juliet's choice of Romeo from a feuding family is a foolish one, guided by the passions of romantic infatuation and love at first sight. I thought that Romeo and Juliet were pretty silly in their immediate infatuation with all their talk of beauty and devotion without really knowing each other. But I remember way back when, when I was teenager, I used to be that stupid. I don't see any charm in such foolish romantic notions now and therefore I couldn't really relate to the romantic side of the play. All the love talk seemed foolish to me. I did, however, think maybe they should bring arranged marraige back since parents make better decisions about marraige than what kids choose to drag into a family. Modern people aren't as smart as their ancestors. --Just a provacative thought.<br />Lest I overly condemn Romeo and Juliet for being stupid, I will say that the feuding families are consumed by their passions of hatred for one another. Again though, it is the younger teen- aged member of both families who can't control their passions and can't stop fighting. Mercutio and Tybalt get into a deadly duel, which adversely affects the marraige of Romeo and Juliet. The heads of the families, Capulet and Montague, do not do enough to control the feud and this leads to disaster, even though they have been told by the Prince to stop fighting. The hatred of the families destroys the love affair of Romeo and Juliet, and Shakespheare's sympathies are definitely with the two. He doesn't reveal much criticism against their foolishness.<br />I thought the Nurse and Mercutio were good comic characters. The Nurse is another of Shakespheare's colorful rustic characters and Mercutio plays the witty and hyper young friend to Romeo. He reminds you of some of your old friends in high school and the laughs over bawdy witticisms you used to have.t is the younger teen- aged member of both families who can't control their passions and can't stop fighting. Mercutio and Tybalt get into a deadly duel, which adversely affects the marraige of Romeo and Juliet. The heads of the families, Capulet and Montague, do not do enough to control the feud and this leads to disaster, even though they have been told by the Prince to stop fighting. The hatred of the families destroys the love affair of Romeo and Juliet, and Shakespheare's sympathies are definitely with the two. He doesn't reveal much criticism against their foolishness.<br />I thought the Nurse and Mercutio were good comic characters. The Nurse is another of Shakespheare's colorful rustic characters and Mercutio plays the witty and hyper young friend to Romeo. He reminds you of some of your old friends in high school and the laughs over bawdy witticisms you used to have.	2003-01-28
US	49511895	R23E1ARMI4Y5IO	0870497502	419165150	The Burden of Brown:  Thirty Years of School Desegregation	Books	5	28	31	N	N	The Problems of Integrated Schools	The Burden of Brown is a great book for anyone wanting to study the problems of integration. A book like this is hard to find. Author Raymond Walters covers the history of integration beginning with a few years prior to the Brown desegregation ruling. This book is not exactly a polemic against integration; I consider it objective, but so many downsides to forced integration are presented that  the reader will not come away with a positive outlook on all of the changes of the last half century regarding integration.<br />Prior to the 1954 desegregation ruling, blacks had inferior schools due to their inability to raise as much money for their schools because they had less valuable property to tax than whites and did not create as much wealth. This lead to inequalities in how much funding was provided for black and white schools. Before Brown, some state governments decided to spend more on black schools to equalize them financially with the white schools, so they could avoid integration and uphold the separate but equal ruling. The Brown hearing itself involved a black family who did not want to bus their child to an all black school far away when there was a white one close by.<br />The original ruling for desegration was interpreted to mean that a school could not use race as a basis for choosing its students; but there would be no forced busing to forcibly integrate a school to achieve a certain racial balance. But during the sixties, environmental explanations for black's inferior performance in schools came into vogue. It was considered that blacks in segregated schools were in inherently inferior schools because the segregated blacks got the impression that they were too inferior to participate in white society. Psychologist Kenneth Clark brought out his black and white dolls and found out that (gasp!) black children were choosing white dolls over black ones in the segregated south, which obviously meant that blacks were being psychologically warped into thinking they were inferior to whites in segregated schools. (It's silly, I know, but bear with me.)<br />Consequently, the new solution ruled by the courts was to rule that schools had to forcibly integrated to achieve a certain racial balance so that blacks wouldn't feel inferior and that they would learn the values of white middle class society and maybe some of the smarts of one race would rub off on the other. Ability tracking was even done away with in some schools because it was thought that this rubbing-off principle wouldn't work if remedial students weren't sitting around the bright ones. And blacks disproportinately made up remedial classes. Never mind if brighter students were held back by the mediocre pace of a class with integrated intellectual levels.<br />When the schools became forcibly integrated, there was a massive resistance by whites once they found out that in integrated schools crime and foul language were increasing and the standards of education were more geared towards integration and equality rather separation and quality. Even the many blacks were dissatified with forced busing and integrated classrooms that took no account of differing intellectual abilities. One mother complained that her daughter was frustated in the new integrated class because it was above her abilities.<br />Whites began to move out of the inner cities to white suburban schools or, as in one case down south, whites closed the public school, which left the blacks without a school for a time, and created a private white segregated one. Integration worked better in places where there wasn't a high minority population such as in Topeka, but proved disastrous in places like Washington, DC and Wilmington, Delaware in which nearly all the whites eventually moved out as the schools became bad inner city schools.<br />I saw the book as good demonstration of the weaknesses of the environmental theory of why races perform at differing levels. There is a general fear to say that such differences are innate since then the problem of differences can't be rectified by liberal social engineering and many people are loathe to differiate between inferior and superior in a society that believes in egalitarianism so much.<br />Wolters himself comes to fuzzy conclusions near the end. At one moment, he says he supports getting back to local control over schools as opposed to federal control with its forced integration. In another moment, he seems to deplore the increasing segregation of northern schools and declares that more compulsion is needed. But other than that funny little line, Wolters lays down the cold, hard facts about the dire consequences of having integrated schools.such differences are innate since then the problem of differences can't be rectified by liberal social engineering and many people are loathe to differiate between inferior and superior in a society that believes in egalitarianism so much. <br />Wolters himself comes to fuzzy conclusions near the end. At one moment, he says he supports getting back to local control over schools as opposed to federal control with its forced integration. In another moment, he seems to deplore the increasing segregation of northern schools and declares that more compulsion is needed. But other than that funny little line, Wolters lays down the cold, hard facts about the dire consequences of having integrated schools.	2003-01-21
US	49511895	R21U8K36XEM2GJ	0930374096	423759382	Federal Mafia: How It Illegally Imposes and Unlawfully Collects Income Taxes	Books	5	16	20	N	N	Tax Protesting for the Brave, or Imprudent?	Be careful to pay attention to the warning in this book about how you can be illegally prosecuted for not paying taxes and may have to pay stiff penalties and serve some jail time. You've got to ask yourself, is it really worth it? Schiff lays down a very thorough argument that the federal government taxes us when it is unconstitutional to do so and that is why the legal language in IRS tax code does not say you are \\"required\\" to pay your taxes. Instead they say taxation is based on the Orwellian doublespeak term \\"Voluntary Compliance\\". <br />Irwin Schiff has really thoroughly studied the IRS tax code and he has spent much of his life battling the IRS, the government, and courts over tax issues, always with the purpose of proving them wrong. Trouble is, many judges won't even listen to his arguments, and arrogantly dismiss his claims that they are unconstitutionally prosecuting him. The judge is to decide what is constitutional or not and what his sentence will be according to case law that comes to conclusions that may not be constitutional. Of course, we have to take Schiff's word for it that he is right, so this is not an objective presentation of the problem from a third party. However, the IRS and the judges have never shown Schiff in what code he is required to pay income taxes; they refuse to do so. He has done some jail time and the IRS has a way of picking out a number from thin air in deciding what a \\"tax cheat's\\" penalties will be. I admire his courage, but I don't think I would volunteer for all the stress of confronting the IRS and government so directly, unless I was desperate. <br />Let everyone decide for himself. Some people play it safe and prudently pay their taxes, but even then the IRS may still deal out some injustice to you, if they think you've made a mistake. You are also giving up your right to privacy when you give your financial records to the IRS. You open yourself up to investigation. Schiff comes to conclusion that we now live under the arbitrary government of men and no longer live under the rule of law. Schiff supports the view that only the brave deserve freedom and you can't be a prudent little mouse obeying whatever the government coerces us to do. <br />But other people like Schiff bravely take on the system and get punished for it. Schiff is really looking to recruit other tax protesters such as himself so that there will be so many protesters the government will cave in. There are other ways to protest taxes though that are more prudent, but may be less effective and slower in their results. <br />Schiff's book is pretty entertaining and funny at times for a usually dull subject--taxes. He also has a talent for explaining complicated issues in a simple and clear manner. It is also a good book for studying constitutional and bill of rights issues. But you have to ask yourself do you really want to spend time in today's prisons where they don't separate the violent from the non-violent, or hostile races from each other, and they don't do much about prison rape either.	2003-01-21
US	49511895	R31S7NKOKCVW42	0812035852	53462480	Henry IV, Part 1 (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	No One Is Honorable	In contrast to moralistic King Lear, this play is morally ambivalent. No one is really honorable in this play. Falstaff and Prince Hal play anti-hero bandits similar to modern day characters in movies like Butch Cassidy and the Sundance Kid. Hal's father, King Henry IV is an outlaw himself who has usurped the throne from the legitimate king, though he himself pretends that he is not and the therefore rebellion against him is not legitimate.<br />The subplot involving Prince Hal and Falstaff are the comical parts of the play and Shakespheare reveals an attraction to low- life living in which these robbers carouse at bars and brothels and play jokes on each other. One gets the impression that it is fun to indulge oneself without getting too hung up on moral quibbles. Shakespheare makes banditry look charming, charismatic and romantic. My criticism is that the scenes aren't that funny to read about, although if one saw good actors acting the scenes out, it could be funnier, which brings up the weakness of merely reading plays, instead of watching them, which is how they are really are supposed to be experienced.<br />Hotspur and his company rebel against Henry IV, but they were actually formerly his supporters in Henry's conspiracy to take the throne from the previous king, so I don't think that they are very honorable either. The scenes with Hotspur and Henry IV are the main part of play which is more serious than the subplot. The two plots are conjoined by Prince Hal and his decision to \\"come clean\\" and stop being a lowly bandit and participate in the high banditry of his father the King as the King tries to secure his throne that is not legitimately his. The King warns his son Hal to give up such petty thievery and instead keep up the appearances that he is noble, royal, and brave in defending the illegimate throne of his father.<br />None of the dramatic monologues really moved me as much as some other monologues in other Shakespheare's plays; and to me, the monologues are often the high point of Shakespheare's plays. The play also seemed to go for too long also.<br />This version has a modern parallel text, which I recommend for anyone first approaching Shakespheare. Although there is some talk of dumbing down Shakespheare by not keeping his play in the pure Elizabethan language, I don't think elitist reactionaries should have their way on this matter. Which would rather have, people that don't read Shakespheare at all because of the difficulties of the language or people who now appreciate Shakespheare because they can understand him better in the modern langauge? I definitely put myself in the latter camp.gues are often the high point of Shakespheare's plays. The play also seemed to go for too long also.<br />This version has a modern parallel text, which I recommend for anyone first approaching Shakespheare. Although there is some talk of dumbing down Shakespheare by not keeping his play in the pure Elizabethan language, I don't think elitist reactionaries should have their way on this matter. Which would rather have, people that don't read Shakespheare at all because of the difficulties of the language or people who now appreciate Shakespheare because they can understand him better in the modern langauge? I definitely put myself in the latter camp.	2003-01-20
US	49511895	R2FRQVAW8JQQ6Z	0895261650	769863057	Shakedown: Exposing The Real Jesse Jackson	Books	5	22	27	N	N	Hustle, Jesse, Hustle!!!	Author Kenneth Timmerman in Shakedown declares that Jesse Jackson is a race hustler from the beginning and shows the 1001 ways that he is for the rest of the book...And it is very funny to read about in a way, but then again, it's not so funny when you think of all the people that Jackson has taken advantage of; all of us really, since he has lived off the public trough especially when the Democrats are in power. It's been a little lean for Jesse during Republican times, but he has survived, he just has to hustle a little smarter and harder. Why won't Replubicans give God's favorite African Amercan his due? They must be big fat nasty racists, I can almost hear Jesse say. Anyway, all I can say is here is your taxpayer dollars at work.     Jackson uses supposed civil rights abuses as a ploy to get more money for himself and his friends. He has rarely helped out the black man on the street. You have to pay him a lot of money just for him to show up to give a speech. His ties to Chicago street gangs is covered. His half-brother was also involved with them and he went to prison for paying someone to murder an enemy. Jackson's proclivity to lie about his past is covered in which he touches down in Africa and declares that he has lived in mud huts just like the natives. Or that he was discriminated against as a football player and could not become a quarterback.     Jesse Jackson maximized his worldwide scamming during the Clinton years as a envoy to Africa. He tried to make business deals to benefit his friends and himself while he was in Africa. And, oh yeah, he was over there to rectify the deplorable situation with human rights there too. Well, sort of. After all, what would Jesus, I mean Judas, --no, I really mean Jesse, do? He made friends with some of the dictators there for his own benefit, but he was just acting under US foreign policy, Jesse declares.     The Texaco shakedown was also covered and I found it interesting that the tape in which the employees allegedly said the N word was so quiet and unclear that it may be that they did not say such a thing. But no matter, Jackson helped himself to the situation there also, while, of course, \\"diversifying\\" the company through new policy programs. One company actually stood up to Jesse and dug up some dirt on his background and then Jesse laid off.    One redeeming thing can be said about Jackson; white politicians are often unethical too. The most amusing part of the book is when he gets out-slicked by Bill Clinton during the Sister Souljah episode in which she declares it's okay to kill white people. (Bill probably doesn't care if white people get killed just as long as it's not him, I might add.) Anyway, didn't someone declare Bill the first black president? This further confuses my analysis.     One detractor of Jackson's scolded for him for living up to the stereotype that blacks are morally inferior to whites, which was an insightful observation. I think the book shows well the devolution of our constitutional republic, in which the law rules, to a mob democracy in which men and the mob's power politics rule.     Jackson shares some traits with MLK in which both were had illicit sexual adventures, had close ties to communists, did not fill the educational requirements to become Reverends, and misused funds for their cause. They were very slick speechmakers and could gather and convince a crowd. Anyway, I can't wait for the Real MLK book to come out, but some of his records have been locked up by the government \\"to preserve his good name\\".	2003-01-14
US	49511895	RIFSQ3DD416YT	0812035739	43217624	Julius Caesar (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Deadly Game of Politics	I think is one of Skakespheare's best plays because it contains some of the best monologues in it. Who can forget Mark Antony's speech to the mob as he deftly manipulates them into rioting and turning against Brutus? Or Brutus' soul searching monologue as he decides to kill Caesar saying that he has civil war inside himself. Or Cassius's effeminate whining about how Brutus does not trust him anymore? Or Caesar's mentioning that Cassius is too skinny and reads too much and therefore he does not trust him. <br />The characters also stand out colorfully. We get the pompous Caesar referring to himself in the 3rd person all the time. We have the conniving and corrupt Cassius who overthrows Caesar for all the wrong reasons, mainly envy. We have the honorable Brutus who kills Caesar because he can't stand tyrants. We have the smooth-talking Mark Antony who slyly plots against the rebels. These characters interplay well with one another, giving a lot of life and energy to the play.<br />And then there's the almost politically nihilistic theme in which people plot and scheme for power or for idealistic reasons, but in the end this scheming benefits no one--civil war starts and lot of blood is shed. One gets the impression that Skakespheare does not like tyrannical autocracy but neither does he like the mob rule of democracy. He likes an noble aristocracy that looks after the common good, not just themselves. But Brutus is the only noble comes close to being noble and he ends up dead. Caesar is tyrannical and pompous, Cassius is mere conniver, and Mark Antony is just a playboy that is upset that his friend Caesar is dead.	2003-01-09
US	49511895	R2F40I3RAC650X	0812035704	43217624	The Merchant of Venice (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Mercy Versus Justice	William Shakespheare in the Merchant of Venice, explores again, like so many of his other plays, the difference between vice and virture, the noble and ignoble. This time out he compares the hero Antonio's acts of mercy with the villian Shylock's desire for justice, the spirit of the law versus the letter of the law. Shakespheare shows throughout the play that he is very confident that Christianity and its followers are superior to Judaism and its followers and quite frankly, his portrayal of the Jewish moneylender Shylock is anti-Semitic and leaves out none of the negative stereotypes. The play seems to be a Christian polemic with its theological interest in Christianity's mercy versus Judaism's justice, as Shakespheare sees it. It may have also been a warning to its audience about the moneylenders of Shakespheare's time.<br />The story is one in which Antonio offers to go into debt for a loan so that his friend Bassanio can have enough money to impress Portia, a woman he wishes to court and marry. Antonio goes into debt to Shylock, a moneylender who demands a pound of his flesh if he cannot pay back the loan. Shylock hates Antonio because Antonio has payed off many loans of his indebted clients and also has badmouthed him as an unethical loan shark, trying to damage Shylock's business.<br />It is the tension of hate between the two, which give the play an intensity, especially at the climax when Shylock is about to take a pound of his flesh. Also the fear of losing flesh to the moneylender makes for good drama. The character Shylock has some juicy vitriolic lines during the scene. And there is a certain glee Shakespheare builds into the play to see Shylock's \\"justice\\" turned against him.<br />There is also a subplot involving Portia and her various suitors who have to choose between 3 caskets of gold, silver, and lead. Choosing the correct casket will make them the husband of Portia. It was interesting to read about the different reasonings that each suitor has for their choices. Portia also disguises herself as a judge during Antonio's trial in which she helps to set him free of the charges and his friend Bassanio is persuaded to give up his engagement ring to the judge out of gratitude, which gets him in trouble with Portia later who does not tell him she was the judge as she asks him what happened to the ring.<br />This is a good, tightly constructed play with none of diffuseness of King Lear. It had more drama too.r their choices. Portia also disguises herself as a judge during Antonio's trial in which she helps to set him free of the charges and his friend Bassanio is persuaded to give up his engagement ring to the judge out of gratitude, which gets him in trouble with Portia later who does not tell him she was the judge as she asks him what happened to the ring.<br />This is a good, tightly constructed play with none of diffuseness of King Lear. It had more drama too.	2002-12-26
US	49511895	R2ZTPN49E6VR0H	0812036379	930167934	King Lear (Shakespeare Made Easy)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Thou Shalt Honor Thy Parents	I resent Shakespheare less now that I can read him in modern language. I wish I had known about parallel texts in college; I would have made a better grade and wouldn't have to struggle with the footnotes trying to understand the Elizabethan language, which always gives me a headache. Even the productions of the plays get on my nerves; a lot of mouths with British accents going a mile a minute about I don't know what. Shakespheare is very talky. I simply walked out on one of Kenneth Branaugh's films of Shakespheare.<br />But desiring to become more cultured, I have always wanted to \\"conquer\\" Shakespheare, not so much because I liked him but because he was important. This version of King Lear is quite understandable in the modern language and I even read the original text to become more familiar with the older language. After a couple reads I had the plot and characters down and the book is helpful with its suggestions of where the characters are going, or what they're holding, or how they are saying a certain thing, or what letter they are refering to, which isn't listed in the original and causes you to miss the meaning.<br />As for the play itself, King Lear is a vain old man who falls for the flattery of two of his daughters Regan and Goneril, who prove false and he scorns and disinherits the third daughter, Cordelia, who will not flatter him, but only says that taking care of him and honoring him is merely her duty. Appearances are not what they seem; who acts noble is often scorned for being honest and truthful and those who are ignoble may act noble at times but ultimately are not. Even the king is not noble in his wanting to be flattered while his fool says many wise things about the king being a fool.<br />All of nature is in discord as King Lear descends from his vaunted heights to become a homeless man thrown out into a terrible storm by his false daughters, Regan and Goneril, who unnaturally betray their progenitor and benefactor once he has given away his inheritance. The play gives insight into how children may act when it comes time to receive their inheritance. And in the case of Generil, there is some gender bending, in which she seems to be more strong and aggressive than her husband, Albany, who sees her husband as a prig and a wimp. Or you could say that this is just traditional female conniving in case of Regan and Goneril.<br />There is a subplot that has similar themes regarding which child is true or false to their father. The Earl of Gloucester has two sons one the \\"bastard\\" Edmund who tries to usurp the inheritance of the legitimate son Edgar. Edmund acts as if Edgar is going to betray Gloucester and tells his father so, but actually Edmund is the one who will betray them both and will attempt to marry either Regan or Goneril who are already married to secure his pre-eminence of position. As usual in Shakespheare, the \\"bastard\\" is evil and ignoble whose pretense of nobility is a sham. Edgar goes in disguise as a lowly beggar who ultimately proves that he is noble even though he is not well-dressed.<br />Another character, the earl of Kent, also goes in disguise as a lowly servant and proves true to King Lear, even though Lear banished him for siding with the noble daughter Cordelia.<br />Oswald is an unfaithful servant to the king and makes an allegance with the false daughters to better his position.<br />Shakespheare moralistically explores noble virtues and he seems old-fashioned since our modern plays are much more morally ambivalent-- because we're immoral modern degenerates, I guess.is inheritance. The play gives insight into how children may act when it comes time to receive their inheritance. And in the case of Generil, there is some gender bending, in which she seems to be more strong and aggressive than her husband, Albany, who sees her husband as a prig and a wimp. Or you could say that this is just traditional female conniving in case of Regan and Goneril.<br />There is a subplot that has similar themes regarding which child is true or false to their father. The Earl of Gloucester has two sons one the \\"bastard\\" Edmund who tries to usurp the inheritance of the legitimate son Edgar. Edmund acts as if Edgar is going to betray Gloucester and tells his father so, but actually Edmund is the one who will betray them both and will attempt to marry either Regan or Goneril who are already married to secure his pre-eminence of position. As usual in Shakespheare, the \\"bastard\\" is evil and ignoble whose pretense of nobility is a sham. Edgar goes in disguise as a lowly beggar who ultimately proves that he is noble even though he is not well-dressed. <br />Another character, the earl of Kent, also goes in disguise as a lowly servant and proves true to King Lear, even though Lear banished him for siding with the noble daughter Cordelia. <br />Oswald is an unfaithful servant to the king and makes an allegance with the false daughters to better his position.<br />Shakespheare moralistically explores noble virtues and he seems old-fashioned since our modern plays are much more morally ambivalent-- because we're immoral modern degenerates, I guess.	2002-12-22
US	49511895	R2267LL0XBQCU	0380758067	334546428	Hitler's War	Books	4	35	52	N	N	The Power of Primary Sources	The once well-respected historian David Irving got himself into trouble with the establishment with his book Hitler's War. Mr. Irving thinks he is more clever than the average historian because he has examined primary sources from archives and has not, like some other historians, relied on other historians' books to write his own history of World War II. Getting his material from these primary sources, he has come up with a different sort of history than the standard version of World War II.<br />His detractors claim that he has an ideological pre-disposition sympathizing with Hitler and the Nazis and this bias has tainted his work and made it a propaganda piece to soften our view of the Nazis. I have seen a convincing show on PBS with such a viewpoint; a TV channel well-known for being left-wing much of the time. <br />From what I have gathered about Irving personally, he seemed to be a careful, hard-working historian more interested in getting the record straight than being politically correct, despite the costs to his career and personal life. He thinks that a hundred years from now he will be vindicated and his history will be the standard history given to college students.<br />At any rate, it has been an interesting controversy.<br />Hitler's War itself is a fairly interesting reading experience; mildly interesting in the first half covering mostly preparation for war and early conquests and very interesting when it covers Hitler's attack on Russia. It is also very LONG; at one time this book was split up into three books and I think that would be the way to read it. Battle after battle and strategy after strategy is dissected by Irving and one can get a little war weary just reading it after awhile. Battles and strategy from Hitler's viewpoint are the main emphasis of the book with a few interesting personal anecdotes about the Fuerer thrown in for good measure. <br />The most amusing anecdote involved his tart-tongued secretary Fraulein Schroeder about appointing Himmler to replace Hitler, if Hitler died, which was very possible since the allies were now closing in on Berlin. \\"The man has no artistic sense at all,\\" Hitler protested against Schroeder's suggestion. \\"In our present straits artistic sense hardly matters!\\" replied his secretary.<br />Regarding the war itself, Hitler seemed to want to conquer the territories that Germany had lost in the Versailles treaty and territory which Germans predominated in. He also had plans to take over the Ukraine in the east for Germany and make the Ukrainians slaves to the new German Empire. When he took the Polish corridor, he made some serious attempts to seek peace with England, but England was not in the mood for peace. He invaded the west to strike first and gain strategic advantage in the coming war with England, an enemy which he always wished he could have made into an ally, especially against Russia. He claimed that it was impossible to make peace with England because its foreign policy was heavily influenced by \\"Jewish Bolsheviks\\" in Britain. <br />As far as the war with Russia goes, Hitler gathered from intelligence reports that Stalin was planning to invade his neighbors on its western front to take out the bourgeois societies of the West and make them into enlightened communist states. Since Hitler knew that Russia was going to attack, he decided to attack first to gain the element of surprise and to wipe out what he claimed was \\"Jewish Bolshevism\\" in Russia. After his initial successes in Russia, he claimed that he had started out a nationalist, but now he had become an imperialist.<br />As far as the Holocaust goes, in this earlier version of Hitler's War, Himmler is said to have been in control of their liquidation and Hitler did not know. Hitler favored a plan to relocate the Jews out of Germany, either in Madagascar or Eastern Europe. I think Irving took out references to the Holocaust in the new edition because he is a firm believer in the Leuchter Report, a lab test of the cyanide levels at the concentration camp where the gassings allegedly took place. It comes to the conclusion that the Jews weren't really gassed or killed purposely on a large scale; the gas was used to kill lice instead. <br />Hitler is presented in the book as a leader who did not have total control over his often rebellious underlings and since they did not follow his strategy at key times during the war, Hitler claimed that that was the reason why they lost. For instance, he wanted to take over Stalingrad before Moscow, but this wasn't done and possibly caused Germany to lose in the eastern front.<br />Hitler never gave up in the direst of straits, hoping that there would be split between Russia and the rest of the allies and then he could join with the allies in defeating Russia. Many Germans supported him until the end and did not consider him a madman.<br />I still did not think that Irving is as controversial as A.J.P Taylor as a historian. In Taylor's Origins of the Second World War, he claims that Hitler was not even intending to fight a war and that he did not intend to conquer the Ukraine. --Wow, are these guys studying the same war? There are about as many versions of the war as there are historians, I suppose.	2002-12-10
US	49511895	R2PRZYVKAWO9NT	0932870244	408486064	Pedophilia: the Radical Case	Books	5	36	42	N	Y	Brave New Sexuality	Tom O'Carroll is a pedophile who wishes to see pedophilia legalized. He comes up with a lot of clever arguments for his pansexual views. He says that it not that \\"illicit\\" sexuality is bad, but it is the guilt that society induces on deviant sexuality that is the \\"perversion\\" that needs to be eradicated. Because sexuality is \\"repressed\\" in an \\"anti-sex\\" society, people have a lot of psychological hang-ups such as violent behavior. He uses as sources for his arguments research from Kinsey and Freud and if you respect the conclusions of these intellectuals, you may find his arguments convincing. Although I must say Freud's conclusions have been highly questionable and Kinsey has been accused of doing fraudulent, unethical, and even criminal research. <br />O'Carroll talks about his personal life and lives of other pedophiles a lot. He says that he was attracted to boys at a certain age when he was that age and as he grew older he still remained attracted to these boys of a certain age only. He feels that he is normal and the rest of society is abnormal with its emphasis on life-long hetersexual marraige as the highest ideal. He would like to turn the world upside-down and make this current view an abnormal or reactionary notion to most people in society. He favors a pansexuality; consensual sex with just about anyone or anything is okay, including incest, pedophilia, homosexuality, child porn, and maybe even bestiality, given his casual attitude towards it. But he thinks child rapists should be prosecuted and sex with pain or humiliation is the only real perversion. <br />O'Carroll has a complex reform for the laws regarding sex with minors. The legal system should be changed and legal age requirements should be abolished, but he believes coital sex with children under twelve is not right. One could seek an injunction against pedophiles and children in a relationship if it was determined that this relationship was detrimental to the parents, child, or pedophile. Injunctions would take place in civil, not criminal courts and the child would have some say in the proceedings as to whether he wanted to keep the relationship with the pedophile or not.<br /> A big believer in childrens' rights, O'Carroll wants to break down the authoritarian style of parenting and replace it with a democratic model in which the child has a say in how he will shape his life with his family and the world beyond his family. O'Carrol seeks to break down the traditional family with a communal existence in which the child may choose to live with people other than his parents and children are not disciplined by corporeal punishment. Instilling virtue, character, discipline, and self-control in the child is replaced by catering the the child's needs. I immediately thought that in such a situation it would be no use to have parents if a parent has no right to raise the child as she sees fit.          <br />O'Carroll gives several examples of children liking the sex they have had with adults and of pedophiles that have had positive influence on the children that they have had relationships with.<br />What was my reaction to all this? I thought that the laws regarding consent could be possibly changed after some careful pro and con discussion, perhaps lowering them down to the start of puberty since I have read accounts of minor/adult relationships that seem suspiciously consensual on the part of the child and not necessarily coerced by the adult. Maybe the child should have some say as to whether he liked the relationship with the adult, and if so, maybe the adult should not be criminally charged. <br />I thought that softening of the procedures against pedophiles may make it easier for pedophiles conceal the rape or coercion of a child by saying that it actually a consensual relationship. His suggestions about educating children into pansexual enlightenment I found be vaguely sinister and coercive since he admits he may not be right about his views and I don'tlike the government, schools and corporations forcing their brand of 'enlightenment' on us against our consciences. What about people who want to remain traditional? <br />Twenty years on, this pansexual viewpoint of O'Carroll's is really more liberal than radical now. Sex ed courses have been accused of teaching pansexuality. We have seen the politics of deviant sexuality before in which a sexual minority attempts to paint the rest of society as perverted, immoral, repressive, or abnormal in its views but the deviant himself is enlightened, progressive, and righteous, and well-adjusted. I call this the tyranny of the minority as the majority is forced to bend over backward for just a few deviant people when maybe the deviant should respect the rights of majority more. But this is the way the game of politics is played from both sides.<br />O'Carroll makes his arguments humbly, but as a movement gains power they become more arrogant, coercive, and subversive as they seek to impose their views on the rest of society to make social mileiu more comfortable for themselves and less comfortable for others. <br />This is a good book for those seeking to understand the mindset of the left regarding sexuality which seems to say that society is not defined as self-controlled, channelling its sexuality into stable, heterosexual marraiges for the benefit and discipline of children and society itself; it is repressive and anti-sex.<br />I think it would be hard to have an advanced society that did not teach self-control and discipline. It would be hard to educate anyone to learn a career that would benefit the rest of society in such a situation. Sure, you can live in a primitive society where sexual mores are much looser, but you live much closer to the harshness of nature. No more doctors and air-conditioning, for instance.<br />I was surprised he did not cover Greek and Roman sexuality in these advanced western societies. Some say the loosening of their sexual mores and traditional morality lead to their downfall. I wonder if O'Carroll would have any arguments against that and I wonder how these societies dealt with homosexuality and pedophilia.	2002-11-28
US	49511895	R31SOLUFCP32FA	0595228380	743478776	A People That Shall Dwell Alone: Judaism as a Group Evolutionary Strategy, with Diaspora Peoples	Books	5	164	189	N	Y	A Remarkable Work of Scholarship	This is an academic study of the historical group conflict between Jews and Gentiles. Being academic in tone; it is not written necessarily to entertain, but readers with a keen interest in the subject will find it a revelation.<br />Is the author anti-Semitic? His research findings did not reveal a flattering portrait of the Jews as he examined 700 mainly Jewish sources about Jew/Gentile conflict. People who are against Jewish interests could certainly use McDonald's information to explain and justify their own ideologies. However, McDonald does not consider himself an anti-Semite and he says that he merely examines the conflict, hoping that his examination will help resolve the group conflict in the future. He does not elaborate how this could happen though. McDonald takes a cool, unemotional approach to his study that does not really advocate anything politically; but his findings have political implications.<br />McDonald's main concept is that of the Jews' group evolutionary strategy. It is one in which the group historically has strictly ensured that it did not genetically or culturally assimilate with the host population. (McDonald is uncertain of the modern data that says that Jews are assimulating more than in the past and he does not say that their strategy has changed.) Their relationship with the host population is merely \\"instrumental\\" while the group keeps focused on what is only good for the group. They have been excluded by the host population but they themselves have also been excluding. Their religion is a \\"this-worldly religion\\" that re-enforces the worldly goals of the group: to be fruitful and multiply, to keep their bloodlines pure (especially priestly ones), and to prosper as a group within the host population. The most chilling part of the book was McDonald's statement that if gentiles of European descent can be convinced by Jewish polemics that their Western civilization is morally bankrupt; they can make the European society self-destruct since European morality is individualistic and universal and will not hesitate to condemn their own people, if they are convinced that they are morally bankrupt.<br />In a nutshell, most of the historical criticisms voiced against Jews are justified by the research in this book. McDonald considers their group evolutionary strategy to have been extremely sucessful even though there has been from time to time violent gentile reaction against it. Of course, there will be accusations that McDonald is lying or distorting things; it is up to the reader to decide.<br />There is also a short introduction into group evolutionary strategies of other groups such as Gypsies, Mennonites, Overseas Chinese and Puritans which is interesting as well.	2002-10-16
US	49511895	RMUA21URP1URG	0075535599	381276653	History of the Jews	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Passion, Pride, and Patriotism	Those three words came to mind when I read Abram Sachar's A History of Jews. Sachar passionately tells the story of his people with pride and racial patriotism as he praises Jewish heroes and excoriates the enemies of the Jews. He also has the ability to evoke sympathy for the plight of Jews living as a minority in society for so many centuries. This is the type of patriotic history that is used to build pride in one's heritage and defends its people against its critics.<br />The first part covers the history of the ancient Israelites. One gets a view of the Old Testament from a secular Jewish viewpoint in the \\"man created God\\" mode. Sachar says that Jewish priests wrote the history of Israel primarily during the Babylonian captivity--centuries after the events happened. The lesson of their history is that the Jews lost their country because they did not follow the laws of Yahweh closely enough.<br />The second part covers the life of Jews during the Middle Ages. There was a golden age in Moslem Spain when the Jews were tolerated quite well and they produced many accomplishments for that society. One learns about all the great Jewish thinkers and leaders in general during the Middle Ages. But the Middle Ages were primarily not a good time for the Jews because there was no concept of religious tolerance during that time. Christian leaders thought that it was very progressive to make their states into wholly Christian ones and therefore tried to drum out infidels. Sachar says that Jews were forced to live in ghettoes in the worst side of town. He says concerning the Talmud trials of the Middle Ages that the accusations against the Talmud are false. The supposedly anti-Christian elements in it are irrelevant since such elements were in irrelevant and obscure parts of Talmud that were not taken very seriously by the Jews. In the latter Middle Ages in Christian Spain, the Jews were forced to convert to Christianity and were known as Marranos who were often considered crypto-Jews even after conversion. The Jews were often restricted economically from participating in gainful occupations. Some became usurers because Christians were generally discouraged from charging interest on loans to other Christians because of religious reasons. There were often accusations from Christians that the Jews were cheating the Christians on such loans, but Sachar says that the few Christian lenders often charged higher interest rates than the Jews. Jews were often the tax farmers for the king who oppressed people with high taxes and many Jews were resented for being agents of the oppressive king. The king would not usually send the Jews out of the country because they were a great source of revenue for him because he also taxed the Jews. One gains an understanding why the Jews did not like Christians that much and vice-versa.<br />Part Three covers the modern era in which the many Jews supported the new liberalism of the Enlightenment with its values of tolerance of other religions different from one's own and the equality of all people living within the state. The values of cosmopolitanism were supported by many diaspora Jews, in other words. But there was also a Jewish nationalism expressed in the Zionist movement which sought to have a Jewish state in Palestine. Sachar tells of the struggle that Zionists had in getting their state and gives a curiously racialist argument about living among the Arabs. He says that before the Jews arrived Palestine was backwards, with health and wealth standards well below average for the Arabs; but the Arabs were lucky to have the Jews arrive because the Jews improved the society even for the Arabs.<br />Sachar's history is perhaps not terribly objective, but his passion for the history keeps it from being dry reading.	2002-09-22
US	49511895	R1M4Z2QER5F09W	0201327988	996880502	Jewish Power: Inside The American Jewish Establishment	Books	4	16	24	N	N	Not So Powerful	Jewish Power was probably written in reaction to books about Israel and Jewish politics like They Dare to Speak Out which author J.J. Goldberg considers to be overwrought fantasies.<br />He gives his evidence showing that Jews do have considerable influence on politics, but not as much as Gentiles think and not as little as Jews think. He shows why he thinks that the Isreal and Jewish political organizations aren't that strong. He shows why many think that the American media is actually anti-Israel. He shows the fractiousness and disorganization of Jews in which they are just as quick call each other names as outsiders, which I suppose is presented to dispel speculations that the Jews are a united political force. However he does say that American Jews have been put under a lot of pressure to support Israel's policies no matter what and not criticize them.<br />The book is most interesting in the beginning and near the end. In the beginning, he talks about President Bush Sr.'s remark about being \\"up against powerful political forces\\" when he was trying to make peace in Israel. This was considered to be a shaded antisemitic statement that may have had an adverse effect on his last run for election given the Jewish swing vote and huge monetary contributions to elections. Half of the Democrat's campaign money for major elections come from such generosity and even a good deal of Republican's, Goldberg claims. Of course, this fact is not mentioned much since this fuels conspiracy theories.<br />The interesting part in the end is the one in which Goldberg explores the split between the blacks and Jews in the mid-seventies over affirmative action. The Jews were against quotas and the blacks were not; the blacks felt betrayed by the Jews and therefore betrayed them in kind since I think the blacks need quotas more than the Jews. He covers the anti-Semitism or the criticism against the Jews of black leaders such as Jesse Jackson, Leonard Jefferies, and Louis Farrakan. <br />Sometimes this book can be boring as the reader wades through the coverage of the myriad of Jewish alphabet soup organizations and their leaders along with special interest group legislation that they support. Since Goldberg's premise is that Jewish politics isn't terribly powerful, it does not have the sensational appeal of the muckraking exposes. It also would have been a more effective account if the author would have confronted some more of what other more critical books were saying, such as the claim that Israel's military attacked the our USS Liberty. I wasn't entirely convinced with his arguments, but he gave it his best shot.	2002-09-05
US	49511895	R1JKCA6RFIV3RX	0312262922	400974101	The Bell Witch: An American Haunting	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A mystery, not horror	There's nothing particularly scary about this account of the bell witch presented by Brent Monahan but purportedly written by Richard Powell, a close friend of the Bell family. It is more of a mystery as the reader tries to find out what the Bell witch is and why it is haunting the Bells. One gets the impression that it's fun to be a demon, ghost, or poltergeist that plays tricks, slaps people, interrupts lives, and even kills with impunity.<br />Powell writes with a charming, old-fashioned style such as in this passage describing a character called Frank Miles: &quot;Mr. Miles was not one of the community's most celebrated thinkers; manly brute force was his answer to most any problem. Despite his good intentions, he was often violent when opposed, either by animate or inanimate objects...Added to this, his vocabulary was limited to simple oaths and phrases, many of these of the crudest origin.&quot;<br />The most amusing parts of the book are when psychics show up to rid the house of the ghost but get their clock cleaned or scared out their wits. President Andrew Jackson attended such a session and got quite a kick out of it. The account also presents a believable account of life on the frontier during the early 1800s.        <br />The book attempts to explain the phenomenom of a poltergeist attributing it to a disturbance that a young girl is feeling as she grows into a woman.<br />As for the veracity of the account actually being from Richard Powell and not Brent Monahan, I'll play along and give Monahan the benefit of the doubt. The style does change between Monahan's introduction and Powell's account. Still one would like to see this manuscript and call up the people that Monahan mentions giving him the manuscipt. And besides, I have a tendency to believe in the fanciful and outlandish, afterall, what was once considered outlandish can become status quo and what is status quo today will be considered outlandish tommorrow. However, it does seem little implausible that Richard Bell would marry Betsy given that she is being haunted by a violent ghost.	2002-08-28
US	49511895	R12U2MAP8ZFO8A	0871136643	331588213	The Lucifer Principle: A Scientific Expedition into the Forces of History	Books	5	9	10	N	N	As The Cruel World Turns	Howard Bloom's Lucifer Principle is a highly entertaining book that combines biology, anthropology, history, and psychology to support the thesis that evil helps us evolve as groups, although I never found out exactly how this was so. Bloom in the beginning of the book seems to want to figure out the problem of evil and he does that fairly well, but he does not exactly solve the problem, which is probably impossibly ambitious anyway. Being just a layman that doesn't know much about science, I cannot judge what weaknesses there may be to his theories.<br />Bloom explores more deeply what a lot of us have observed about life and the world in a superficial way. One idea being that one group's freedom is another's slavery or that one group's God is another's devil. In such a situation good and evil become blurred and sometimes what opposing groups fight over is two competing goods. <br />Another observation is that we are not as good as we think we are as a group and our enemies are not as evil as we purport them to be. A lot of the observations and antidotes in the book will leave the reader in a cynical frame of mind. Some of political observations remind me of cynical philosophers like Machiavelli. Bloom digs up the dirt on the political chicanery of the leaders of the left and right who pretend to be for righteous causes but actually use such \\"memes\\" to arrogate more personal power to themselves, like any good demogogue.<br />Another wonderfully cynical observation of Bloom's that would have made Nietzsche proud was that high sounding words such as peace, justice, and freedom are often terms use to hide a group's rapacious desire to move up in the pecking order of individuals, groups, or nations. A group's cry for justice is a cry for more power and a war cry to knock other groups above them down to the bottom of the heap. A needy and lowly group does not want more charity given to them from some superior group; that generosity is demeaning to their pride that wantsto be number one in the pecking order. Bloom warns that America is no longer clearly number one and may end up like England if they keep being complacent about education, technology, and developing new products. Bloom, like Thomas Sowell, explains a nation's superiority on cultural terms rather than racial ones. He believes a culture remains superior if it is open to new ideas and does not try to live in the past--however great the past might have been. Hence, he gives his support for progressive thinking and is critical of conservative or reactionary thought.    <br />Bloom also backs up his theory that we evolve as part of a group as opposed to evolving as individuals by showing that organisms which are isolated from the group end up suicidal or tend to die quicker since they are of no value to the superorganism anymore that is motivated and united by an idea or meme that fights against another group's meme.	2002-08-27
US	49511895	R3LRJ0CE5PK341	0312218044	838862728	A Rumor About the Jews: Reflections on Antisemitism and "The Protocols of the Learned Elders of Zion"	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A study of Anti-semitism from a Secular Jewish Viewpoint	The Protocols of the Elders of Zion is still worth reading about since it one of those books that it helped start a social movement of increased intolerance and violence towards Jews in Nazi Germany. It is still taken seriously in the present-day middle east.   Author Stephen Bronner's most interesting point is that the Protocols was written in reaction against modernity and its components of a republican state, rule of law, democratic liberalism, universal suffrage, universal equal rights, and separation of church and state. The reactionary forces of the church and aristocracy were against the liberal forces of Jews, freemasons, and the middle class mainly because they wanted to hold on to their arbitrary power over their subjects.  Another observation is that Bronner shows why many Jews support cosmopolitanism and separation of church and state so much; those two things the Protocols opposed with nationalism and the church. Such ideas give the Jews more freedom and equality than they would have under a Christian government or a nation that defines its true citizenry on the basis of race. Nationalism often has a racial component to it as opposed to a cosmopolitanism that pretends that race does not matter.  In the last chapter, Bronner analyzes contemporary anti-semitism and racial nationalism. He advocates that more conservative Jews should even give up their cultural and genetic heritage to the inevitable march of progress, modernity, and cosmopolitanism. Those who resist multiculturalism will be the inevitable losers. To be a racial nationalist is to join forces with the likes that support the values of anti-semites. He poses the question that once antisemitism is removed from society, the Jews themselves may vanish because they will no longer be the persecuted 'others'. But of course, one can think that there are seeds of destruction in excessive cosmopolitanism also.  The Protocols are reprinted in the book. It is clumsily written propaganda, but it came alongat the right time and it plays upon fears that people still have today: autocratic world government, destruction of Christianity, planned economic depressions, indoctrination of children in schools of values parents are against, control of the news media that doesn't tell the truth, mindless entertainment to distract citizens from their vanishing freedoms and wealth, and planned spread of diseases for population control. Bronner gives the history of the creation and appearance of the Protocols in Russia in 1905 when the reactionary and anti-semitic monarchy enthusiastically supported its discimination.	2002-08-22
US	49511895	R2VV7IT73LGB6N	0761534040	897968670	The New Thought Police: Inside the Left's Assault on Free Speech and Free Minds	Books	5	11	16	N	N	The Revolution will eat its own children	Author Tammy Bruce is a lesbian loose cannon with mix-and-match political beliefs; she spent some time with her sisters in the feminist organization NOW. She thought that they we're helping to make life better for women, but instead found out that they were busier trying to keep fellow sisters in line about leftist ideologies, namely, the 3 cardinal sins of the left: racism, sexism, and homophobia.<br />A lot of her complaining is just about human nature though; it's not that the right is not just as intolerant as the left. People firmly committed to their beliefs whatever they may be have trouble tolerating the other side. It's just that the right is not predominant in the cultural elite right now and so they are humble and talk of freedom of speech. The left is out to grab as much power as possible in their possibly waning heyday and try to keep everyone under control. The nation swings to the left and right over time and a new intolerance replaces the old depending where the pressure lies. Such situations remind me of what Pete Townsend of The Who wrote in the song \\"Won't Get Fooled Again\\": \\"Here comes the new boss, same as the old boss.\\" <br />I guess it would be nice if we lived in a world where free and open debate was really celebrated and you would be slapped on the back for enlightening us all with your own peculiar viewpoints but because of some complexities and human emotions that sort of tolerance and understanding is hard to achieve.<br />Bruce has previously worked for that sleazy profession, public relations, in which they bring us 'news' which is really propaganda and advertising from companies and organizations selling products and ideas to the public who think they are getting objective news from these organizations' video news releases given to news stations. I recommend Toxic Sludge Is Good For You for more information on that. <br />Bruce writes in a smooth, slick, and lucid style and the book is easy to get through. She has a likeable personality and does not resort to vitriol when making her criticisms. This is a good book for studying left wing intolerance; for right wing intolerance, look elsewhere.	2002-08-05
US	49511895	R3C2O769HRE9TT	0743203046	22408140	Bowling Alone: The Collapse and Revival of American Community	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Hope You Like Statistical Analysis	Robert Putnam's Bowling Alone is not an extended essay on how the author feels that people in America are not engaging socially with one another as much as they used to. Its emphasis is on looking at a myriad of statistics that prove that we are not as socially engaged as we used to be. He looks at the declining memberships in all the clubs and organizations and he examines the decline in informal socializing such as playing card games and having friends over for dinner. <br />He then examines why we are less socially engaged. He thinks that it is mainly because the civic generation that was coming of age or in adulthood during the WWII and the civil rights era is dying off. It seems that a crisis like a war increases peoples' civic consciousness as they pull together to solve the crisis. He also blames TV watching since it is an increasingly private entertainment that discourages people from seeking out more social entertainments. Two career families and commuting also have a smaller adverse effect on \\"social capital\\", that term he uses to identify the social engagement of a nation. Putnam again analyzes statistics for this section to prove what is deciminating social capital. <br />In the 3rd section, Putnam explains why it is important for a democratic society to have social capital. He looks at stats of states that have high social capital such as the upper midwest and upper northeast and compares them to the low capital states of the south and NV. He comes to the conclusion that people are happier, healthier, wealthier, more productive, more tolerant, and safer in states where there is high social capital. Surprisingly, he proves that communities are not repressive when they nurture, which runs contrary to my experience.<br />The fourth section talks about how we can increase social capital by looking at what people did at the turn of the century to increase it when the capital was running low. A lot of our present organizations were organized then. He also says that we should increase our bonding social capital among homogeneous groups and our bridging capital among diverse groups.<br />Putnam says it is unclear whether diversity destroys community. He says that homogeneous communities do not interact as much as diverse ones, and people should engage with others that they are different from or even hostile to. Putnam explains that the northern midwestern and the most northeastern states have a traditional communitarian culture of high social capital because they are more egalitarian than other states that are more libertarian or elitist.<br />Bowling Alone makes a nice companion piece to The Fourth Turning for those who like to study the discimination and rebuilding of societies in different eras of history. --Oh and I guess we could be more socialable.	2002-07-24
US	49511895	RVWE9HIBS0UBR	0452281288	339342696	Conspiranoia!: The Mother of All Conspiracy Theories	Books	4	14	16	N	N	An Encyclopedia of Conspiracy Theories	Author Devon Jackson is not here to tell you whether the theories are right or wrong. He does no analysis along those lines. His book is a lighthearted look of all the theories. Sometimes he seems serious and sometimes he's silly. He seems to be liberal, so he has no trouble recording the supposed misdoings of right wingers, but sometimes he soft peddles when dealing with groups protected by political correctness, to keep himself out of hot water, I suppose.<br />He has a flow chart drawn by hand on the proverbial crumpled piece of notebook paper showing how all the conspiracy groups are interconnected. I think the funniest conspiracy was the one in which it is said that mercury fillings are used to transmit messages for NASA to the Aliens. Now that's creative! However, I do believe that mercury filling could possibly be poisonous and its better to get the more expensive plastic ones to avoid health problems. <br />The most interesting conspiracy is how some prominent Americans were Nazi sympathizers, like Allen Dulles. They helped some prominent Nazis get out of Germany after WWII under the CIA's Operation Paperclip and helped them get jobs working for places like NASA. I think I would like to read more about this one. The book presents theories and if your interested you can seek out a more in depth coverage elsewhere. However, the book does not have a bibliography, so you're on your own trying to find them. The book also lists quotes from prominent individuals confirming or denying a grand conspiracy and they are loosely documented to some source, but without a page number. What I'm trying to say is the book is not well-documented.<br />The book is a fun read, if ultimately frivolous. Doing an analysis on whether the conspiracy theories are true or false is really where the attraction lies with conspiracy theories. Maybe he should have played the theories up more for laughs, because if the theories aren't true and it's just paranoia, paranoia does have its very funny side. Perhaps some clever film maker will come up a funny film about paranoia one of these days.	2002-07-02
US	49511895	R88CUV06TGLHV	0684871114	755672704	Conspiracy: How the Paranoid Style Flourishes and Where It Comes From	Books	5	33	50	N	N	Pipe's Conclusion: Conspiracy Theorists Are The Enemy	Daniel Pipes is an anti-conspiracy theorist and he makes some good arguments against such allegedly paranoid thinking. Sure you don't trust the mainstream media, but why should you trust your local, possibly wacko, conspiracy theorist? You've read all the paranoid theories, why not read a critique against such theories? It will be a challenge and also just plain good for you. <br />Pipes says that we should avoid paranoid thinking because it demonizes others that are not to blame and the evidence used against them is faulty. Amusingly, he describes antisemitic theorists who have not even met a Jew.<br />Pipes most valuable contribution is his history of conspiracy theories, mainly involving Jews and Freemasons at first, and then British and Americans in later times. During the Crusades, antisemitism became more systematic in its hatred and developed conspiracy theories against Jews, in this time of intolerant religious fervor. During the French Revolution, people we're looking for an easy way to explain such a messy and bloody event and began blaming the revolution on the Jews and Freemasons. In more modern times, the world powers of Britain and America were blamed for the world's troubles especially during the Lenin and Stalin regimes which concocted anti-imperialist conspiracy theories. Hitler focused more on antisemitic theories. During this age of totalarianism, paranoid thinking became status quo and murder of \\"subversives\\" became commonplace. Pipes also gives an insightful analysis of the characteristics of conspiracy theories.<br />This is a challenging book for true believers in conspiracy theories and a book that debunkers will enjoy. Perhaps Pipes could have debunked one conspiracy theory directly and this may be a weakness. Also, he does not deal with quotes from society's elites such a Henry Kissinger who says that we will have global government. So maybe Pipes has oversimplified as much as the conspiracy theorists have oversimplified. Yet still, you'veheard that many things are too good to be true, maybe many conpiracy theories are too bad to be true.	2002-06-27
US	49511895	RCVOT82B6BIKZ	0140243887	918469420	When She Was Bad...: Violent Women and the Myth of Innocence	Books	5	37	40	N	N	The Matriarchy Strikes Back	The author Patricia Pearson is an independent-minded feminist who critiques foibles in the philosophy of her other sisters; namely, that women are morally superior to men and don't do as much violence against others. Or if they do, they only do it because they are oppressed by the patriarchy. They are victims.    Pearson wants women to be treated like adults, not children, being held to full account for their wrong doings in the justice system. She believes that women are equal or capable of being equal to men in all spheres, including combat. (This argument about equality in combat I think is erroneous). If the sexes are equal, she implies, then they should have equal punishment for their crimes. People and women should stop making excuses for women's crimes such as pleading temporary insanity, being a battered wife, being abused,or having PMS. Chivalry in the justice system should not mete out lighter sentences for women who commit similar crimes that their male counterparts do.    Pearson mixes her work with juicy stories about womens' crimes for the delight of your tabloid mind along with a scholarly analysis of what it all means. She talks about the nature of female aggression can also include things overlooked by society such as vicious slander against enemies, and \\"...an acid bath of words, the children used as pawns, the destruction of property, (and) enlistment of community as a means of control...\\"     She speculates that children dying of Sudden Infant Death Syndrome may have been purposely neglected by their mothers who were having crazy thoughts about wanting their children dead. She thinks that women are not as naturally nurturant in motherhood as society says they are. Society has a hard time seeing the true nature of the female and therefore has problems dealing with women gone bad.     Pearson even hints around that child are citizens with a right to life, are not possessions of their mothers, and that women should be responsible for their birth control--these statements have controversial implications for abortion and parents' rights issues.    She states that women are just as abusive and violent as men are in their relationships and there is such as thing as a battered husband. However, society refuses to help battered husbands because they don't think women are that violent. She deplores the power imbalance in the marital relationship in which women can falsely accuse a man of abuse and send him to prison with one phone call to the police.    Pearson's most fascinating topic is female serial killers or \\"nurturant monsters\\" as she calls them. She describes one who drugs her victims to death, but before she does, she has the facade of grandmotherly warmth that deceives people into thinking that she is harmless. She describes women in history who have killed as many as 600 victims, but people tend to forget women killers and focus in on male killers who lurk in the shadows and are more directly violent.     Because people see violent women as victims of abuse, they often glamourize or approve of their violence, such as in case of Lorena Bobbit emasculating her husband or the murdering wife who was replaced by a younger model.    To sum up, Pearson says, \\"...to separate one sex from the other as virtuous or blameworthy is to follow a false trail in understanding the causes of violence.\\"	2002-06-13
US	49511895	R2CNVFZ4Q0V413	034535575X	608088682	Past Lives, Future Lives	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Therapy for all your lives	Goldberg has a fast-talking wowy-zowy style on the radio that makes you suspicious that he is a charlatan, but I enjoyed reading his book.<br />He is a firm believer in past life therapy in which a patient experiences a traumatic past life event via hypnotherapy and is healed by re-experiencing it. He does not explain why this would heal someone but he claims that his patients are able to avoid certain negative habits or phobias and have improved relationships. He thinks it is the best psychological treatment. <br />Goldberg also claims to be able to show his patients their future lives through hypnotherapy. The future, from what can be gathered by the life stories of future lives, is much the same as reality is now: threats of nuclear war, clampdowns on freedom, class issues, warring civilizations, technological progress, relationship problems, enslavement, and good times too. <br />Apparently, we often go through several lives with the same souls who are in different incarnations. You may marry the same person several times or be a relative or friend or enemy to a person several times. Although you may mate the same person several times this does not mean that you'll like them every time you meet them. Perhaps they may end up abusing you in one life and loving you in the next. In other words, finding your \\"soulmate\\" may not be such a good thing.<br />Goldberg explains karma and I got the impression that it is not exactly a matter of a situation in which you murder in one life and are murdered in the next. One patient was raped in a former life and Goldberg comes to the odd conclusion that the soul was learning humility and submission in such a life. This conclusion partially makes the villian a teacher in a strange sort of way. A rapist in former life will be decent married man in another but still have problems with being domineering or manipulating. <br />Such a worldview may have adverse ethical repercussions, if no one is truly good or evil and no one is directly punished or rewarded. Anyway, I did not get the impression that karma was direct justice against evil actions in a past life from the many stories of the lives of his patients, despite Goldberg's defining karma that way from the beginning. <br />The stories are interesting even though there are probably too many of them. The overdose on far-out stories has a numbing effect by the end of the book.	2002-06-08
US	49511895	R10TETXRTNEU6G	0465071821	27193388	PC, M.D.: How Political Correctness Is Corrupting Medicine	Books	5	24	31	N	N	Alice in Wonderland Health Care	This book reminds me of fictional works such as Alice In Wonderland and Gulliver's Travels that celebrate the absurd, but unfortunately the author Sally Satel is talking about reality. Political correctness would be really funny if the results weren't so tragic.<br />Satel deplores the dismissal of requiring individuals from taking personal responsibility for their health and instead focusing on the supposedly oppressive environment around them that is making them a sick victim of white male-dominated society. People who are pathologically anti-white male and anti-racist have infiltrated key positions in medical education and medical industry and promote their poisonous political views to their helpless patients.<br />Satel does a critique of alternative medicine particularly regarding therapeutic touch, a medical fad that she says has not been proven to be effective in any clinical studies. She says that PC medicine's theories and remedies for how a person gets sick or well have not been researched properly or their statistical results are flawed and supposed descrimination in medical care can be explained by other reasons such as the physiological and cultural differences between the sexes or races. <br />PC medicine emphasizes the post-modernism of Michel Foucault in which the dominant culture is oppressing minorities and this oppression results in sickness. The dominant culture of white males must be done away with to improve minority health. It also emphasizes quasi-marxist radical egalitaritarism in which the patients are to participate in their healing instead of relying on the expertise of the doctor. Therefore, psychiatric patients view themselves as victims of their treatment. This egalitarian view tries to explain differences in health care and the health of different groups as a matter of unwarranted privilege and discrimination when other more reasonable explanations are presented by Satel.<br />This is a well written book that is more interesting thanit initially seems. Post-modern political correctness and pseudo-intellectualism was bad enough in the humanities department, but now that it has invaded the practical realms of healing, it has made health-care less efficient. Satel advises getting back to solving health care problems by getting back to the practical basics of health care: personal responsibility for one's own health and scientifically-verified treatments and research studies that actually improve public health.	2002-06-08
US	49511895	R35Z6XXNUCD5EY	031226660X	19959884	The Ten Things You Can't Say in America	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Preachin' that Libertarian Gospel	Larry Elder's book is nice introduction into libertarian thought. Libertarians, to oversimplify, are basically conservative economically, keeping regulations and government to a minimum, and liberal socially, letting people live according to what they think is right in their own eyes. Elder covers a myriad of hot button issues bravely and he's not afraid to say things that may offend others, whether liberal or conservative. He sounds like a conservative on many issues though. <br />He mentions that young black men are responsible for a disproportionate amount of crime in this country and attributes it to fatherless homes in the black community. He also promotes optimism for blacks especially, rather than a defeatist victim mentality, to overcome alleged prejudice in society and to become a success through hard work and overcoming obstacles. <br />He also condemns whites for condescension of blacks, holding them to a lower standard than what they expect from whites. He attacks the liberal bias of the mainstream media and has an admiration for Reagan. He talks about how government should get out of health care to lower its costs and quit restricting the number of doctors that can get into med school since there is a doctor shortage. He wants the free market and competition to drive down prices for health care.<br />He advocates getting government out of the welfare business, letting more effective and cost efficient private and religious charities to step into the gap of solving people's poverty problems. He says that the democrats and republicans are really  much the same--tired political hacks. He offers his ten point plan to reduce government and increase our freedom and resposibility for our own lives.<br />As far as the war on drugs goes, he says stop it and legalize the drugs, baby. (Imagine getting some acid at a convience store). It's your body to abuse.<br /> --What about guns? We need guns to defend ourselves against criminals who will always find a way illegally to get guns. He breaks out his stats showing that guns are used millions of times to prevent crime and assault. <br />Abortion? Let everyones' conscience decide. If you think that abortion is wrong, you have no right to stop someone else from doing it. (I must say he doesn't confront the counter-argument that stopping abortion protects the life of the child.)<br />--Minimum wage? Abolish it, he says. It destroys jobs and opportunity for blacks especially. I felt he needed to say how we could avoid rock-bottom wages under such a policy though. Market demand for workers would raise wages, perhaps?   <br />Offended yet? Good. --Anyway, he brings out some thought provoking arguments. Some of his sentences are awkward and he uses the slang term \\"like\\" to often (he's Californian). Some arguments are faulty like the one in which he says a racist employer will be at an economic disadvantage if he doesn't hire blacks that are better candidates than whites, then he admits that blacks are generally not as good as students than whites (and therefore probably workers).  Something's wrong with this picture, I don't think he's comparing apples to apples.<br />As far as the many racial conflicts that he covers, one gets the feeling that maybe we aren't all meant to live together and our racial problems will never be solved given peoples' desire to pick fights with other ethnic groups.<br />I also couldn't figure out whether he wanted to punish people for saying racist things or he wanted to go the libertarian way and let people say whatever is on their minds.	2002-05-23
US	49511895	R3GUBJM3H3E904	0915540398	465725366	Jacob's Dozen: A Prophetic Look at the Tribes of Israel	Books	3	13	17	N	N	A No-Nonsense Interpretaion of Biblical Prophecy	Readers looking for far-out, fanciful interpretions of Jacob's prophecy to his sons will be disappointed with this book. Varner sticks with the Bible when interpreting; it's a little boring and unimaginative, but probably more accurate. He refutes the theories of British Isrealites who say that Jews and Israelites are two different peoples by saying that they do not pay attention to 1st and 2nd Chronicles which states that the northern tribe, the Israelites, moved down to the southern kingdom of the Jews when the Northern Kingdom was destroyed. Isrealites and Jews are the one and the same. There ain't no lost ten tribes of Israel so shut up and go back to sleep. (That is my own smart-aleck response, he wasn't that impolite.) He also mentions that he thinks such theories are anti-semitic since they replace the Jews as the chosen people with some other ethnic group. He is a very pro-Jewish protestant.<br />This is a book made for a mostly Christian audience. Varner goes into each of the tribes' prophecies and shows what their future and characteristics were according to the prophecies. He also does a little preaching for the reader's moral improvement showing the failings and virtues of each tribe and how we should follow their good and eschew their evil.<br />This is a good book for reading the arguments against the fanciful theories. He mentions that if Jeremiah and his daughters did take a boat to England and settled there after the temple in Jerusalem was destroyed in 70 A.D., wouldn't the New Testament have something to say about it? He doesn't deal with the other books that weren't included in the Bible or with the legends and traditions of England that support the theories of British-Israelism.<br />Not the most exciting reading or revelations in the world, but we have to listen to the boring voice of sanity and reason sometimes, don't we?	2002-05-23
US	49511895	R2SRQMY8VYSYC	0684829479	992008202	The Origins of The Second World War	Books	4	14	18	N	N	Word War II	This book examines the battle of words of diplomats involved with appeasing and then confronting Hitler before the real war.  Hitler was not a madman warmonger, Taylor declares, but rather an  opportunist whose stategy was one of waiting for something advantageous politically to happen rather than willing it to happen. He was a master of bluff, presenting himself as a leader of a country greatly wronged by the Versailles Treaty, which the English especially agreed with. He would recite the injustices of the treaty and would make pleas to have the land that was lost after the treaty returned to Germany. Other times he would threaten war, although Taylor claims that Hitler and Germany were not prepared for war and Hitler had made no plans to conquer Europe, except maybe to take the Ukraine. To quote Taylor: \\"In considering German armament we escape the mystic regions of Hitler's psychology and find the answer in the realm of fact. The answer is clear. The state of German armament in 1939 gives the decisive proof that Hitler was not contemplating general war, and probably not intending war at all.\\" <br />Taylor looks through the diplomatic records of the European countries and finds that the English especially wanted to give Hitler what he wanted to avoid war. This book is not the most exciting reading in the world, given that he covers the endless political maneuverings of different diplomats from different countries. Indeed, it's a bit difficult to keep up with all the names and countries and what their stances were. A parody of the writing of the book would be: \\"England said that, but France wouldn't go along with it because they we're allied with Poland, but the Soviets we're also interested in alliance with Poland, which deeply disturbed Italy, who then petitioned England to change their mind and give Germany one more chance...\\" Taylor sometimes shows a very dry, subtle wit as he covers the actions of diplomats who desperately seek peace, but keep moving inexorably closer to war. Taylor also does not cover how Russia and the US got into the war and why Germany declared war on them, giving the reader the sense that the book is incomplete. He mentions that Hitler was unethical, wicked, antisemitic, and not a man of his word, but he generally de-emphasizes the psychological examination of Hitler.<br />Taylor thinks that war came out of the mistakes made at the treaty of Versailles and it began because these problems were not solved. He also states that the origins the second world war had not been sufficiently studied and his book fills the gap in the research on WWII. It is a good book for studying diplomacy and the grievances of Germany over the Versailles treaty. Hitler's racist doctrines and how they affected the war are really not the focus of the book--and this probably a deficit. Taylor says that Mein Kamph was merely violent talk that many leaders have engaged in historically, but have not acted on.	2002-05-11
US	49511895	R3C2KH9GO4A569	0871161133	808288662	Book Reviewing	Books	4	6	9	N	N	How the Pros Do It	This book makes the subject of book reviewing interesting most of the time, although since it's such a practical, instructional topic, it is not necessarily inspiring.<br />It is a good book for those who are interested in reading and writing reviews; it shows the process and the guidelines reviewers follow. I don't like rules in reviewing, so I will call these suggestions that help you to get published. One of the biggest suggestions is that a reviewer should try to figure out what an author is attempting and how well he accomplishes that. He is to judge the book by that yardstick. Another was that a review has two parts usually a brief description of its contents and then an critical evaluation of the contents (why you liked or disliked it). Another was that a reviewer should not make judgements against the viewpoint of the book because he does not like it, but he should be objective enough to rate according to how well the viewpoint is defended. (Lofty ideals, indeed!)<br />Brevity was stressed, most published reviews do not go over 600 words. (Darn!) Much emphasis was placed in making up that catchy first sentence and then holding the reader's attention with your engaging writing style, (but don't be so stylish that it detracts from the book your reviewing--Darn!) A grey area is that of what a reviewer should express in his evaluation of a book. He should evaluate, but he shouldn't go on and on about his own theories. His theories should relate directly to the book and be expressed briefly. (Oh, get real!) A reviewer walks the fine line between a cramping himself up in a bare-bones review and stretching out comfortably in an extended critical essay. It's probably more fun to be a critical essayist than a book reviewer because of this.   <br />In general, one should not rip into a writer that failed, especially if it's their first book. Instead offer gentle correction and encouragement. (Who are they kidding!) The superior reviewers develop a niche in a certain field such as current American politics and they read all the books coming out on that subject. They also read all previous works of an author they are going to review. (Speed reading, anyone?) This gives them the voice of experience and authority when speaking about their expertise. They know when a book writer is pulling the wool over innocent readers who don't know much about a subject. <br />The book goes over the business itself, how there are so many books out and not enough space and time to review but a small percentage of them. It talks about how movie companies will buy their own book of their own movie so that it will be proclaimed a bestseller for promotional purposes. It talks about how reviewers are starving when they are not writing reviews. So you want to make money doing something slightly fun like reviewing? (Giggle, Giggle) It also lists literary prize winners since 1900, in case you want to read some acclaimed writers or wonder about the good judgement of the awarders-- Faulkner's The Reivers won a prize? It shows ambitious reviewers how to break into the business, if they think they're so good at reviewing they can pick up a little pocket change or drinking money.<br />This book has the disadvantage of being really old, it came out in '78 and they talk about something called a typewriter, whatever that is. In the internet age, the business may have changed a little. (Why pay a reviewer a pittance, when you can get a customer to do it for free; you don't even have to give them a free copy of the book!)	2002-04-15
US	49511895	R2PVTHVFMJA1RL	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It's Not Too Late to Save Our Economic Wealth, Independence	Buchanan explains how people who used to have manufacturing jobs in America are suffering financially because service jobs don't pay as well as manufacturing ones mainly because of the low profit margin in the service industry. Not all are going to be able to develop the computer skills to participate in the allegedly lucrative computer economy. There is a widening class division between such people and their tech-savvy counterparts who are making a lot more money. Buchanan brings out a lot of stats that show what a bad economic situation we're in, comparing it to the depression, which is a little hard to swallow-but to each his own stats and his interpretation of them. Through free trade, American workers are put into competition with foreign workers who make 50 cents an hour, have no benefits or environmental protection. American corporations have gone global, seeking cheap labor and ever higher profits. They no longer see themselves as American.  <br />Buchanan likes history and often has a charming, folksy way of telling stories about historical events to make his points. He says that the founding fathers we're very much trade protectionists and kept their tariffs high to protect their industries and economic independence. Alexander Hamilton was the greatest intellectual founding father of economic nationalism and protectionism through the use of tariffs. Tariffs are also a nifty way of picking up revenue for government operations without having to institute an income tax on the people. As soon as tariffs began to be lowered around 1913, the income tax began, because the government has to get its money somewhere. Buchanan says that Adam Smith was not the free trader that free traders say he was. He says that protectionism of trade did not cause the depression and gives his evidence. <br />Buchanan is against the free traders who have lack loyalty to their nation but whose goal is to have the cheapest products imported by free trade. Free traders think that freetrade promotes \\"WORLD PEACE\\" and they want to get rid of the nation state and have a global bureacracy take care of us all. They have an almost religious fervor about their free trade dogma and don't like people to say things against it. Buchanan states that having free trade does not make nations more peaceful and shows examples. Besides, nations like China and Japan do not practice free trade but they do take advantage of our free trade policies while they protect their industries and markets from imports. Free trade could be one of the reasons for the decline of the British Empire because they practiced it for so many years. John Maynard Keynes, the famous English economist, was once a avid free trader until he saw what economic damage it was doing to his country.  <br />Buchanan suggests raising tariffs to protect our industries, especially our defense industries, so that we can remain economically independent and will be able to keep our military secrets hidden from other countries. Economic independence was one of the reasons the Revolutionary War was fought. Buchanan doesn't want to save the world--he knows it can't be done--he just wants to save American industry, which still can be done if tariffs are raised.	2002-04-10
US	49511895	R1RHCX6OB6UWTS	0465067972	764075068	Race And Culture: A World View	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Cultural Explanations for Racial Differences	The book explains that culture has a lot to do with racial and ethnic differences and groups often retain their characteristics wherever they go in the world. For example, the Irish are often heavily involved in politics as leaders especially, the Italians have been known to be great architects, the Germans are known to be hard-working farmers, and the Jews are known to high risk loan lenders and also garmet/fashion employees. <br />The book also covers middleman minorities such as oversees Chinese in Malaysia, Indians in Eastern Africa, and Jews worldwide. It explains why such minorities are resented for their financial success in whatever country they set up shop in and how they get kicked out of the country sometimes even though they greatly helped build the economy. They get accused of exploiting the natives and political pressure is put on them to hire the natives in their industry. Sowell gives the example of Jews who charge high interest for their loans because no one else will take chances on people with poor credit history and who stand a great chance of defaulting on a loan. The Jews must be financially responsible to keep their loan business going so they don't mix too much socially with their customers so as not to take on their bad financial habits.<br />Cultures and ethnic groups that were once backwards become advanced over time especially if they are conquered by a people with a superior culture. Sowell gives the example of the ancient Britons who were conquered by the Romans and became more advanced culturally than the Irish or Scots who were not conquered. <br />Sowell also explains that a region must have navigable rivers or or be located on the coastline to be advanced culturally. It is easier to tranport people and goods and therefore ideas in such societies and they become more advanced than rural regions, islands, and mountainous regions that are less populated. He says that one of the reasons that Africa is backward culturally is that there are not many navigable rivers as opposed to Europe.	2002-04-08
US	49511895	R1H16FMPEOUEMW	1556520735	980026737	They Dare to Speak Out: People and Institutions Confront Israel's Lobby	Books	5	94	109	N	N	A Plea For Open Debate On Our Policies In The Middle East	Paul Findley was a Congressional representative for 22 years and became friendly with Arabs on a diplomatic mission. He learned about the Arab side of the argument in their relationship with Israel in the Middle East. Apparently, he became too cozy with the Arabs for the Israeli lobby in the United States to bear so the America Israel Public Affairs Committee (AIPAC) began to campaign against him during his bid for re-election. A Jewish newspaper went so far as to call him a practicing Anti-Semite during the campaign for his sympathy for the Arab cause. Whether he lost the election soley to such smear tactics is questionable. <br />The Arabs claim that US weapons provided to Israel for defensive purposes only are often used against them in a illegally aggressive manner and therefore they disapprove of our military support of Israel. Israel has also been known to build settlements illegally on the West Bank, which raises the ire of the Palestinians. The biggest problem is that more sympathy and support from the US government goes to Israel and the Arabs are rarely given a chance to have their side of the argument heard in the US.<br />The support for Israel comes from the Jewish political groups in the US. They put a lot of pressure on representatives to toe the line in support for Israel. They do not tolerate dissent on the issue and do not want any arguments against complete support for Israel to be discussed. Raising such arguments can get the dissenter labelled falsely as an anti-Semite or at least anti-Israel. Although other ethnic groups in the US have lobbies for the interests of their homelands, the Israel lobby is the most effective and powerful and skews our foreign policy towards Israel's interests rather than our own. People have been attacked physically and verbally and have had livelihoods threatened for opposing the Israeli lobby in the US.<br />Israel itself can be a very treacherous ally considering that they deliberately attacked on our ships duringthe 1967 war in Israel. It was the USS Liberty that was attacked and several of our military men died in the attack. Israel also killed off innocent civilians in their invasion of Lebanon which further rankled our relationship with other Middle Eastern countries. <br />On the home front, Jewish political groups also attempt to control academic freedom when it comes to Middle Eastern studies. They do not want any information presented that might be critical of Israel or sympathetic to the Arabs. <br />The Jews in the US seem to be driven by fear to control the debate over the Middle East for their side only. They do it for survival reasons, thinking that if they protect Israel as their homeland, they will always have a place of refuge in case a new holocaust starts. Many Amercian members of The Tribe would like to speak out against the pro-Zionist lobby and the status quo in Middle Eastern policy here in the US, but they are also intimidated by the pro-Zionists. Zionists also get a lot of support from conservative Christians who think it is God's will that we should always support Israel, according to their interpretation of Scripture.<br />This is a good book for those who want to know more about why we are fighting in the Middle East other than the argument that Bin Laden hates our freedoms. It is because we give Israel unquestioned support against Arab nations that has enraged terrorists like Bin Laden against us. It explains why the Jews do what they do without resorting to Anti-Semitic conspiracy theories or dehumanizing arguments. Ironically, it is the Jewish activists' suppression of free speech and fair debate that may increase anti-Semitism. Findley wants open debate so a middle ground can be found for the interests of Jews, Israelis, Arabs, and Americans.	2002-03-12
US	49511895	R1XK2F5RHJRBGB	0895261596	873277344	A Republic, Not an Empire: Reclaiming America's Destiny	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Defining What Isolationism Is and Is Not	Pat Buchanan goes through America's foreign policy from the early days of the republic to the present. The history covers gives detailed information about our smaller conflicts that aren't usually covered much in general history and in the media. <br />Buchanan says that isolationism is about isolating the country from wars that do not serve our country's purpose, it is not about isolating ourselves from the world. He says that foreign policy was isolationist until President Wilson's era when it became more interventionist. Isolationists like George Washington believed that we should avoid foreign entanglements that are not in our self-interest as a country and that we should avoid passionate and permanent attachments to allies especially when promising to help fight their battles. With this in mind, Buchanan suggests that we needn't have fought World War I or II, because it did not serve our interests and the two wars did not end up being any country's gain, but only everyone's detriment. He says that our interventionist policies in the past and present in which we issue guarantees that we will defend  about any ally in case of attack is a bad policy that we may not be able to come through on anyway or if we do come through may be to our nation's detriment. <br />Another interesting point about America's history of foreign policy that he makes is about our pursuing what we considered our manifest destiny to expand westwards as a country. He says we did it to defeat hostile foreign imperialist countries and their Indian allies so that we would not be taken over by them when we were a weak country. He says the west was sparsely populated and it was never our foreign policy's intention to rule over foreign people like the British empire did. He says the time we took over the Phillipines was a bad move since this was a legimately imperialist move that went against our traditional foreign policy. This interpretation of history goes against the history of genocide against the American Indians; it says that the Indians were our enemies since they were allied with France and Britain.<br />Buchanan makes suggestions about how to change our present interventionist policy such as getting Germany and Japan to raise a larger military to defend themselves and staying out of the hornet's nest of the Middle East. We should end aid to Israel and Egypt and preside over a just peace for the Palestinians and Israelis while providing Israel access to our weapons for defensive purposes. We should get out of some our agreements to defend our allies militarily if it does not serve our national interest. He does not believe in a moralistic interventionist policy of moving in militarily when a certain ethnic group is being slaughtered. We should practice instead a policy of realpolitick that eschews the role of world policeman. He warns that our interventionist policies may be our downfall as a nation. <br />This is good book for finding out about foreign policy and its history from a conservative, nationalistic, and isolationist point of view.	2002-03-06
US	49511895	R4DGZG9ZUWR77	1574882627	678978295	Hate: George Lincoln Rockwell and the American Nazi Party (George Lincoln Rockwell & the American Nazi Party)	Books	5	14	22	N	N	Racial Dynamics of Politics	This book is about George Lincoln Rockwell, founder of the American Nazi Party during the sixties.<br />This book is interesting because it shows who becomes a Nazi and what characteristics they have. Rockwell was once a McCarthyite fighting communism, but after reading some information about the Jewish influences on communism became a Nazi fighting \\"Jewish\\" communism. He also was not a believer in the ability of a person to become smarter by the environment they're put in, but thought there was racial differences to intelligence due to heredity and genetics. He also could not be manipulated by sentiment easily and did not like novels such as the Grapes of Wrath that allegedly played on people's emotions rather than use reason to get its point across. Rockwell was generally insensitive to what others thought of his views no matter how unpopular; he ended up sacrificing his financial security and family to \\"save the white race\\".<br />Rockwell and the American Nazi Party allied themselves with the Black Muslims during the sixties who were also anti-Jewish and racial supremacists and separatists. They were for each races' self-determination without being entangled with the destiny and culture of another race. Many Jews did not support separatism though; one black leader Stokely Carmicheal complained that his organization, SNCC, no longer received money from Jewish supporters once he began preaching black pride and separatism.<br />The book has a lot of amusing incongruities in the book such as the strange case of Jewish Nazis that worked and even lead a branch of ANP for awhile. <br />The most important idea in the book was the issue of free speech and how one group usually only wants to have free speech for itself and tries to get the other opposing groups to shut up through legal maneuvers. Free speech is hard to defend; usually the police, generally hostile and indifferent to Rockwell's cause, had to protect him from ensuing riots because of his speaking his inflammatory truth as he saw it. Freedom of speech was probably more prevalent back then; Rockwell was given a lot of opportunities to speak at various colleges. There wasn't a double standard on what blacks could say and what whites could say on racial issues; there were no hate speech laws or stultifying political correctness.  <br />Rockwell used a lot of lowbrow Vaudeville style racial humor to get his point across to the lower classes. He did not solely want to go highbrow and speak to those who practice \\"tea party politics\\". He got his Vaudeville style from his father, who was a Vaudeville comedian, and ironically, a friend to many Jewish comedians.<br />Many of the men who joined up with Rockwell in the early days were military types and ex-convicts. Some were eccentric intellectuals. Some were successful in the work world, many were not. There wasn't much financial or sexual reward though so many left unless they were totally committed to the cause. <br />A weakness to the book is that the author does not refute many of Rockwell's claims such as the Jewish influence on communism, Jewish CIA employees giving away secrets to the enemy, racial inequality in civilizational standards, predominant Jewish influence on the media, and Martin Luther King's close ties with Jewish communists. Occasionally, he will refute Rockwell by bringing up the issue of whether Rockwell was psychologically sound or not or he shows that Rockwell's evidence for holocaust denial is weak and says he created it to make Nazis politically respectable again, but in general he remains objectively silent on whatever claims Rockwell makes. <br />Rockwell complained that he could not institute his ideas on society or be taken seriously because people were too comfortable and complacent. He and the Nazis were waiting for an economic collapse to strike and  implement their violent revolution. They sought to organize people politically on terms of race instead of class, like communists try to do. But both are not so nice; they both believe in violent revolutions. Marxists are considered a bit more respectable though for some reason and have been allowed to teach at universities.	2002-03-05
US	49511895	R1X1E6ZLA4QZ8N	1575666596	413876241	Soldiers Of God: White Supremacists and Their Holy War for America	Books	5	16	18	N	N	Post-Christian Society's Malcontents	The authors of the book take a neutral stance on these white supremacists. They present their ideas without actually condoning them. They have a reserved sympathy for these people since the authors live in the rural conservative culture of Texas that breeds this sort of extremism. They also mention that they had repugnance towards some of the ideas presented, but avoided editorial comments as part of their deal with the extremists.<br />Many racial extremists have the religious theology of an antisemitic variety of Christian Identity. They interpret the scriptures to mean that whites are actually the chosen people and the Jews are the seed of Satan. They believe that the stone of destiny that the monarchs in England swear themselves upon when being enthroned is Jacob's pillar in the Bible because English tradition says so. Not all Identity Christians are anti-semitic though.<br />The extremists are firm believers in conspiracy theories involving the Jews and their Gentile freemason cohorts. They believe everything is controlled by ZOG (Zionist Occupied Government) and that the Jews and freemasons involved shape society to their own benefit and to the detriment of the white population.<br />The authors do not sanitize their accounts of what the extremists truly believe. They believe in the elimination of homosexuals, Jews, race mixers, and the unproductive. Some of their beliefs on these matters are influenced by their interpretation of the Scriptures. (The more violent, younger and secular Neo-Nazi gangs believe in elimination of the unproductive.)  The religious racists see themselves as soldiers of God in a righteous fight against what they see as evil. These religious beliefs make them very committed and sometimes they will attempt violence or lawbreaking to achieve their goals of having a Christian theocracy. They believe they are at war with a corrupt government that needs to be overthrown. However, they think that Timothy McVeigh was actually a government agent that worked to put the blame on racial extremists for OKC bombing and to create an incident to pass an anti-terrorists bill targeted against patriots.<br />They have problems with the theory of racial equality since they think affirmative action is used to promote people who do not merit the position and that blacks often make formerly all-white neighborhoods crime zones.<br />The authors do not try to confirm or deny any of the many conspiracy theories that they believe in and I think that this is weakness to the book.<br />The racial extremists have a battle strategy of leaderless resistance in which they form a small group of no more than seven people who know each other well. This strategy guards against infiltrators because the group remains very quiet about what they plan to do. They plan to have hundreds of these groups who will reek havoc upon what they see as ZOG controlled society as they attempt to implement a revolution.<br />I view the group as ultra conservatives with unorthodox Christian beliefs that do not want to live in a multi-culti society with race mixing and little adherence to some of the more thorny traditional Christian beliefs. They are unable to get what they want at the voting booth and are willing to use violence to get what they want. They also see through the weaknesses in the theory of racial equality and racial sameness when they observe reality. They are scary, but at the same time, fascinating to read about. Although milder conservatives may have the same complaints as the extremists do, they do not have the same nuances in their beliefs that will lead them to violence. Nuances in belief systems are important.<br />More people will probably be radicalized enough to join extremist groups in the future if the economy keeps sputtering and more foreigners come to live here making the nation less of a predominately white culture. Resentment will be stirred if non-whites are still considered a protected class as opposed to whites according to the law.<br />This is an informative and readable book that covers extremists in depth while avoiding the simplicity and distortion that the media usually resorts to when covering extremists.	2002-02-19
US	49511895	RLNVAURGY7LL4	0316759805	56074509	The Coming Race War in America: A Wake Up Call	Books	4	31	41	N	N	It's All Whitey's Fault	This book is a good look at the mind and the assumptions of a black liberal. The main argument of the book is that all black failure is due to white racism, not black inferiority or inability to take responsibility for their own lives. The author is black, so obviously he is going to argue according his own racial self-interest; whether his arguments are true or not is highly questionable. However, some black failure can be attributed to fatherless homes, and not inferiority or racism. <br />The author laments the lack of civility in civic discourse, but I don't understand why. For instance, he quotes a speech given by Newt Gingrich about responsibility and then complains that Gingrich is being uncivil even though I thought Gingrich used  mild-mannered, even bland, words. I guess he thought he was using so-called 'coded' racial slurs. The author doesn't seem to understand that free speech will often be offensive to someone or some group if people are allowed to criticize freely. We should all be rejoicing that we're offended because that means free speech lives and democracy is not dead. The moment nothing offensive will allowed to be said is when oppression will reign.<br />To his credit, he mentions how blacks like Farrakan are racist hatemongers, as he sees it, along with gentile and jewish whites. He warns that a race war might break out because of increasing racism, but other than that, the book does not deal specifically with how a race war will play out. The sensational title of the book was created to sell more copies in the apocalyptic nineties, I suppose. The book has the breezy, entertaining, somewhat superficial style that one would expect from a columnist. <br />He mocks the seemingly well-researched findings that blacks have lower IQs mostly fixed by genetic heredity. He looks askance at the institution that funded the research and suggests research that says low IQs are due to poor nutrition. I thought that The Bell Curve which argues for lower IQ ofblacks in one its sections was much more carefully and thoroughly argued, despite its unpleasant conclusions, than the superficial and questionable arguments (or just ridicule and suspicion) that Rowan brings up. He would need a well-researched book of his own to argue against such findings point by point, not just a chapter.<br />To him, the high crime rate among blacks, is not due to their own irresponsible behavior, but because white racist cops go after blacks more than whites. He has the typical liberal view that no one is responsible for their own effort, behavior, success, or failure; every outcome is due to an good or adverse environment: namely, whether it is \\"racist\\" or \\"minority-friendly\\". <br />He gives an interesting account of the O.J. Simpson case and why he thinks Simpson is innocent. I lost interest in the matter a couple of days after it happened, so I'm not expert enough to know whether he's wrong or not. <br />He discusses the wooing of Colin Powell for president by the Republicans. He indicates that blacks who are conservative or Republican are sell-outs, not people that have differing views from his own. He insinuates that Republicans will only consider blacks that will follow along with what he considers to be their racist agenda.<br />When he discusses a time when a white teacher writes him a letter about her black students who don't do their homework and get involved in drugs, he does not take her at her word, but rather accuses her of having a prejudiced, stereotypical view of blacks. This old tired white racism argument is not convincing many whites anymore. We're tired of it. It is also bigoted against whites and ignites the coming race war because it tells blacks to hate us for their own failures. Rowan himself contributes to the race war, which is always going on in some form or another. <br />But it goes to show that a government or country cannot serve but once race at a time or risk favoring one over another. Race wars may be a way of races grabbing their own geopolitical territory where they can live out their own destiny without the hindrances and entanglements of multicultural societies. <br />And to answer tired argument with tired (but sometimes forgotten) argument, Rowan lives in a white civilization where he is able to have rights, freedom of speech, wealth, and the institutions to speak his mind about white racism. But if he lived in black-ruled Africa where tyranny and chaos and extreme poverty are the norm he would have no such rights or privileges. I don't buy his arguments that blacks are equal because blacks have never had a civilization as great as our own, unless you believe in Afro-centric pseudo-history.	2001-11-08
US	49511895	R34GBHW6ZOG4EJ	0819706922	80926857	From Courtship to Courtroom : What Divorce Law is Doing to Marriage	Books	4	30	31	N	Y	Injustice System Encourages Divorce, Discourages Marraige	The first part of the book explains technical aspects of the law clearly and briefly, but it's a little boring, though important. Abraham also goes over the history of divorce and family law from 1700's to the present throughout the book, which is interesting.<br />The book gets better in the second part in which Abraham describes a typical scenario of what will happen when his wife files for divorce, which may not even be the worst case scenario. I almost teared up a couple times reading this narrative in which he uses the pronoun &quot;You&quot; to describe your various misfortunes, indignities, and injustices as you experience your divorce. Abraham urges men not to marry--it's just too risky. Men have almost no financial or legal protection in a divorce or in their post-divorce lives. This book makes you glad you never married, if you haven't.<br />Abraham blames the law for the increase in divorce more than women themselves, although no mortal woman can not resist the temptation of divorcing once she finds out that she can have the house, the kids, alimony, and child support from the male, all in for the best interest of the child, of course. But the child support money she receives from you is not monitored by the courts to see if it actually goes to the child.<br />The law does not think it is in the best interest of the child to have a meaningful relationship with his divorced dad because it is very difficult to get even joint custody; the mother usually wins sole custody and the husband gets visitation &quot;rights&quot;, which can be easily subverted by the wife if she does not want him to see his kids. In a typical divorce case scenario, it is quite possible that the husband may be falsely accused of sexual child abuse by the mother to strengthen her case for sole custody of the kids.<br />A father actually has few rights in a divorce or after it, but still has responsibilities to provide for the child, as the law sees fit, which often financially burdensthe father unfairly because the law goes by one-size-fits-all guidelines. A father may even pay an estranged child's college education if the law demands it. The wife may sue at any time after the divorce for more money, especially if the father gets a raise. The law also meddles in the business of the divorced father telling him that he can't start his own business because such a risk would not be in the best interest of the child. If the father becomes unemployed, he still owes the full amount of child support. <br />Fathers become so-called deadbeat dads because they can't have a real relationship with their children and they become detached from the sense of well-being they had when they were with the kids before the divorce. The financial burdens are often unfair to the divorced dad and so the father tries to get out from under them. The media, like court system, does not sympathize with the father and calls him a deadbeat dad. <br />The courts and the media practice a form of modern chivalry in which the woman under the guise of protection gets many unwarranted privileges and sympathetic biases. She may even end up with part of her ex's retirement pension.<br />Are there any solutions to all this? --Solutions are a long hard road. Yeah, you can get a pre-nuptial agreement, but the courts often don't honor it. They think their system is better. It is good to negotiate a pre-nup with a woman though to find out whether she is a fair-minded woman or she is one who is really going to stick it to you with the full force of the law come divorce time. <br />Political solutions are also slow and arduous. There about six points in the law that need to be changed through the legislature by presenting different bills. You will also have to battle the feminists on the opposing side, who crank out a lot of legislation for privileges under the guise of equality. Basically, we will have to work to get government out of our family life and stop it from playing big daddy. Government may keep growing until it controls the lives of married and single men the way it does divorced men. And that's not good. <br />I was surprised that Abraham didn't argue for the end of no-fault divorces because in the age of no fault, divorces sky-rocketed. Couples were no longer made to stick with their marital decisions and work their problems out. The kids were then left fatherless, and developed the many pathologies of fatherless children. He instead wants males to have fair and equal standing under divorce law. He does not necessarily want to decrease divorce. He thinks that if joint custody is awarded, the kids will be able to handle the divorce better. That is my impression anyway. I think it might be better to keep people married and the families intact for the interests of the children and society. Marraige should be a decision you have to stick with, except in extreme cases.<br />Oh, and of course, I almost forgot because it's so typical-- the lawyers and psychologists make tons of money off the growth industry of divorce. Just one parting cynical remark.	2001-10-04
US	49511895	R22HKLQB45KJL8	0961593806	611912465	The Predatory Female: A Field Guide to Dating and the Marriage-Divorce Industry	Books	3	102	127	N	Y	'The Second Sex' for Men	Lawrence Shannon comes out with guns blazing in this relentless blitzkrieg attack on the female of the species. He is cynical beyond belief and shows no mercy towards them. While not vitrolic in tone, he matter-of-factly explains to his male readers why you should never marry a woman (a.k.a. the predatory female). You can laugh at this book, but I think the author is being deathly serious.<br /><br />His most important point is that women have the upperhand financially and legally in a marraige. If she decides to divorce a man, he stands a good chance of losing his kids, house, and part of his paycheck and retirement pension. He will be living in a little studio on the bad side of town while he pays for her to live in what used to be his house. He can be sued again and again if she decides that she needs more money from him. Therefore he never really gets her out of his life to start anew. The court system favors females to an inordinate degree, so he can't win justice in court, even with a prenuptial agreement.<br />I found the book to be rather bleak and hopeless because if one can't find love in this life, what hope is there? What is there to live for? Shannon thinks that men are just here to exploited financially by women and do their every bidding or risk the displeasure of the predator. He seems to suggest that all women are predators, but does say that maybe they're are a few who are worthwhile, the ones he calls long-ball hitters. I suggest that men wanting to keep their romantic illusions about women should read pro-marraige books, because this guy certainly isn't for it.<br />Shannon claims he is a Reverend, but I thought he was much too cynical and off-color to be a good pastor. He certainly doesn't believe in holy matrimony and he takes some swipes at the church during his tirade. I think of him as a salty Sailor Joe who gives his advice about women. He is funniest when he is at his most outrageous....<br />Shannon does what radical feminists have done for years in their books and women's studies classes, which have become a cottage industry in our so-called institutions of higher learning: present a lot of simple one-sided opinions with little documented proof and get the troops riled up with fiery anger. He rails against the matriarchy the way feminists do against the patriarchy. He also does not criticize men the way feminist radicals mostly don't criticize like-minded women in their works; but he does say that men are fools to become slaves of women. I can't say this mutual railing is progress, but it is fun to hear someone criticize women in times when it is not politically correct to do so and men live an anti-male environment. Reading such criticism has the allure of forbidden pleasure. A book like this would be a good one to have in gender studies class along the anti-male S.C.U.M. Manifesto. Having two extreme viewpoints would make for interesting discussion, but I suppose such a scenario would be too much like education, and not indoctrination.<br />He says the civilizations decline when women get too much political power such as in the courts. They organize themselves politically better than men do since men are more self-reliant and independent than women are and do not organize themselves in behalf of their own interests. Marraige has become a faulty, politicized relationship. This is not a scholarly work and he does not delve deeply into his arguments, like the fascinating one above. I wish he would have pursued such arguments a little further. Instead, he goes his merry way presenting arguments and leaving them quickly to answer another question that he presents by way of a naive character.<br />This book is a small field guide which you can stick in your back pocket and keep it on your person at all times in case you come across a predator and don't know what to do. These predators (women) are never given any redeeming traits, they are all genetically wired to be manipulative, controlling gold-diggers. I considered his opinions to be plausible and his information was something every male should know just to know the lay of the land and what he's getting into when he foolishly decides to put his fate in the hands of a woman.<br />The book is disturbing and certainly kills out any romantic dreams of youth in which you pictured yourself happily ever after with your soul mate. You may decide never to have any dealings with women again, or as little as possible. I have retained some innocence about women since I have never been ensnared by one. I just read about them from a guy who was able to live to tell about his own ensnaring.ers. I considered his opinions to be plausible and his information was something every male should know just to know the lay of the land and what he's getting into when he foolishly decides to put his fate in the hands of a woman. <br />The book is disturbing and certainly kills out any romantic dreams of youth in which you pictured yourself happily ever after with your soul mate. You may decide never to have any dealings with women again, or as little as possible. I have retained some innocence about women since I have never been ensnared by one. I just read about them from a guy who was able to live to tell about his own ensnaring.	2001-09-28
US	49511895	R3FB55OQX1LBRI	0963283901	87291615	Left for Dead	Books	4	43	46	N	N	A Good Anti-Establishment Do-It-Yourself Health Book	This book digs up the dirt on the medical establishment saying that heart surgery can nearly kill you and do you no good in the end, all done with a whopping price-tag. Drugs are favored over herbs since they can be patented and sold to patients for great profits. Dick Quinn gives his personal testimony about nearly dying from heart surgery, but finally getting well by taking Cayenne, Garlic, Onion and other herbs, but mainly Cayenne. He scoured the earth looking for the hottest Cayenne he could find to burn his insides out! But no matter how much it burns, it's all good for you. He started his own herb company servicing mainly heart conditions which had a lot of loyal customers until the FDA... shut him down because his cure was effective and cheap, and the medical establishment did not profit. I ran out and bought some Cayenne and popped several daily. I really didn't get the energy boost he got, but I suppose they're helping. The book tells his story first, then describes some herbs secondly, and then ends with the disadvantages of heart surgery. There are sage quotes about the medical establishment and goodness of healing herbs throughout the book from distinguished men. The book seems somewhat disjointed as it goes into its different, but inter-related parts written by different authors. Quinn's story is short, skims the surface, and has some drama, but certainly is not a candidate for an Oscar winning movie. The writing style is direct, conversational, and informative and skips all literary flourishes to get the news out that herbs can heal. I found particularly interesting that drugs like aspirin merely synthetically imitate the healing effects of herbs, such as aspirin being derived from Willow Bark.	2001-09-16
US	49511895	R3UTZ8V09YUWS1	0393317234	193368606	Dumbing Down: Essays on the Strip-Mining of American Culture	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Never has the decline of civilization been so funny!	Most of the essays in the book are interesting. One of essays got bogged down with a lot of fuzzy technical and philosophical arguments. Some of the essays on language use and grammar will remind you of your spinster curmudgeon English teacher; they were a bit too hard-core reactionary for me, but not without their truths. A lot of the essays exude a lot of wit and I laughed out loud in a lot of places. Particularly I liked  one essay by a self-proclaimed snob who said that college was a waste of time for a lot of people and why didn't we just have college for people who are actually interested in learning for its own sake? Before WWII, people could get good jobs without having to go to college. The businesses trained them at their own expense, which is what businesses should do.	2001-09-12
US	49511895	R1IMF0IJ3PJ852	0060976918	923226445	Alien Nation: Common Sense About America's Immigration Disaster	Books	4	20	23	N	N	Chirpy tone about a gloomy topic	Brimelow exudes a silly British wit about the balkanization of our country into different ethnic groups. Sometimes I chuckled and sometimes I found it annoying. But those who like the personality of a writer to shine through in his writing will like it, I suppose.<br />I found most valuable his insight that a country is more than just an idea; it is a people with similar blood ties which make up an extended family that has a world view that is closely associated with their ethnicity. Opening the flood gates to people who do not share that ethnicity or world view leads to conflict between groups which tear a nation apart. <br />Another good insight was the political elites' internationalist opinions about immigration have a certain snob value for them. They don't want to have the same opinions as all the unwashed nationalist commoners. They are so enlightened that they can sit behind their gated communities and claim that they are above making distinctions based upon race. I've often noticed this snob value at work at universities where people take on opinions opposed to what the rest of society believes just to feel superior, instead of refining the intellectual framework of the nativist reactions of the common folk, they would rather disagree with them. But this does not mean that the intellectuals are right; they merely become competent sophists for their own boutique viewpoints. <br />This book made me see that America will quite possibly break up in the future, because the history of mankind has been war between ethnic groups and people haven't changed. There is cooperation and oneness with all humanity, but at the same time there is competion, division, and hostility between us too. In a saner world, each ethnic group would have its own homeland and tight community to live in and to live out their destiny. This would support true diversity and would respect each culture as different and not something to be destroyed by mixing it with another culture. <br />FromBrimelow's book I got the impression that human nature is ethnocentric and most of our disputes divide along ethnic lines. The same racism and ethnocentrism that attacks other groups is the same mindset that makes humans protect their families and kindred from the other racists from some other tribe. Such is human nature that liberals try to deny and try so hard to change. <br />There has not only been an attack on families individually but an attack on the extended family of the whole nation for being nationalistic and ethnocentric and for favoring one's own tribe. But if we are all going to be split up into lonely individuals with no loyalty to our primary and extended kindred, then what community do we have? <br />Brimelow also has an revealing map of the racial movements and make-up of the US showing how whites are retreating from coastal multi-culti zones to the mostly white heartland (for now). What will happen when there is no longer a place for them to run? (Incidently, I wish the map was color-coded for clearer interpretation).<br />Brimelow answers many of the counter-arguments given by immigration enthusiasts and reveals how our representatives betray us by not reforming immigration policy, which is what the majority of the people want.	2001-09-12
US	49511895	RGMIUT9E4GSJG	0882894447	279861650	Men and Marriage	Books	5	20	28	N	N	Single men may go crazy if they don't get married	According to Gilder, single men are criminal barbarians if they don't get married. Single men also don't pay the bills and don't hold down their low paying jobs. --Offended yet? --Gilder does have evidence to back up what he has to say, although as single man, I can't say that all the pathologies that he says I might have, apply to me.     The isolation that men gravitate toward causes loneliness and a sense that that they are out of life's loop, so to speak. Isolation leads to depression, which may lead to suicide. He says that men are happier married, although I must say, when I hear them talk about their wives and kids, I would never know.    If a man gets divorced, will he be worse off than when we was just single? Gilder doesn't delve into this question much.    It's nice to see someone defending marraige, which is a rarity these days. Most of the time I hear that's it's hard work and you shouldn't get married if you're not sure you're compatible. I even hear this from traditional Christian media that believes in marraige, but doesn't sell it too well when they emphasize the problems of marraige all the time.     I think marraige may become a thing of the past since more and more people are living together in unstable relationships that eventually end, often producing children as well. It is hard to get married if no one in society wants to get married anymore.    Gilder points out that male sexuality is based on meaningless pleasure that does not lead him into becoming a husband and father which would give him a meaningful role in life. A man has to be pushed into this by society for his own good, even though initially he sees this as oppressive. Since society no longer goads men into marraige, the meaningless hedonism continues.     Gilder believes that the traditional sex roles uphold the the foundations of society and are not to be tampered with.	2001-05-28
US	49511895	R3PU5YMI35L1IZ	0684849577	185008673	The WAR AGAINST BOYS: How Misguided Feminism Is Harming Our Young Men	Books	5	25	36	N	N	The misandrous feminists	This book shows how easily feminism can slide into radical misandry once women start believing that they have been abused by patriarchy. It is poignant to see this agenda being imposed cruelly against boys in school for being naturally aggressive and competitive, or just themselves, basically. Teachers in some schools have tried to feminize boys by getting rid of recess and spelling bees, forcing them to participate in quilting, advocating that they wear dresses, or switch ... roles with girls all in the name of androgyny. In Britain, they have realized that boys are falling behind girls in academics; they are experimenting with all male classes with male teachers that encourage the competitiveness and discipline that boys need to succeed in the classroom. America is blind to problems of boys because of the crisis writers who have falsely presented girls as victims when they are doing better than the boys.	2001-05-28
US	49511895	R3792LXOIFPJ4M	0679730613	612048363	Hit Men: Power Brokers and Fast Money Inside the Music Business	Books	5	15	17	N	N	an excellent, depressing, and bitterly funny book	I enjoyed this book for its witty stories and quips. I'm a musician and I'm almost convinced that the music business is thoroughly hopeless in a madcap way after reading the book. I mean hopeless because it is impossible not to get ripped off as an artist and that you have to deal with this den of snakes to sell your music successfully. I used to have an innocent joy of listening to pop records but now I know how they are promoted and my innocence is dead. I'm also suspicious of artists who moralize in their songs, but will do anything to get their songs on the air. But I suppose that is the only way one can have a career. The book also shows how hard it is to obtain justice, fairness, and decency through personal effort or the judicial system. It also revealed how ego-driven the music and entertainment business is; the ones with the biggest egos and worst ethics often rise to the top. I doubt I would, as a musician, would want to live through any of these sordid, sardonic tales though.	2001-01-08
