US	49515022	R47LTZ4Q5RCNZ	0553275720	481443640	Fantastic Voyage	Books	4	4	8	N	N	Sci-Fi Classic	A Sci-Fi Classic<br />With the ominous \\"other side\\" on the rise a key scientist defects.  In a last-ditch effort to prevent the defection, they ram a car into his vehicle, causing little injury but injuring his head in the process.  In order to save him, our protagonists must go inside his body (shrunken down to the size of a virus) and remove the blood clot from his brain.  Unfortunately, all is not what it seems and a series of accidents seems just a little to coincidental.  Is there a trader among them?<br />Asimov's Fantastic Voyage is a spectacular tale of a trip through the human body.  Clearly the research has been done, and the book literally takes you on a trip through biology.  A must read for Sci-Fi Addicts!	2004-04-16
US	49515022	R1UKXBJCJIU3GI	0743465016	136286484	Genesis Force (Star Trek: the Next Generation) (Bk.4)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	OK Trek Book, Great Audio!	This book-on-tape which seems to take place sometime during the next generation movies finds Worf in command of a small Klingon fleet resettling the colonists in wake of the Genesis wave.  In this process they encounter a culture that has decided to preserve themselves in their orbital transporter network. <br />Tim Russ (Voyager's Tuvok) does an excellent job of portraying the full gauntlet of characters ranging from the out-of-favor scientist turned savior to the planet's genetically-perfect ruler to Worf and the Klingons.  <br />The story brings back a few now-older characters like Worf's son Alexander and Jeremy (the kid that Worf took under his wing because he lead the away team that resulted in his mother's death).  Both have ended up serving under Worf on the Klingon ship (Jeremy apparently through some sort of Federation exchange program).  Unfortunately, the rest of the enterprise crew play a very minor role in the whole saga.<br />The story begins to pick up when the now-destroyed and supposedly lifeless planet appears to have life on it; moreover this life form seems to be able to shape-shift and nearly convinces the colonists to begin coming down in droves before the Klingons discover that the life forms are not what they appear.<br />The Klingons want to put everything on hold until they can figure out the mystery of the planet.  In the interim, however, another mystery (which becomes Alexander's challenge) is formed when the planet's leader is killed and the heir-apparent and scientist-savior are the two leading suspects.<br />The colonists are not willing to wait (with the transporter systems failing and afraid of loosing lives) and begin a process that is supposed to re-terraform the planet.  However, what they don't know apparently can hurt them and does.	2004-02-11
US	49515022	RSJFT4B58VY1V	0743464974	106863737	The Case of the Colonist's Corpse: A Sam Cogley Mystery (Star Trek: the Original Series)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Perry Mason meets Star Trek	The Case of the Colonist's Corpse Review<br />In this Perry Mason meets Star Trek Original Series novel, renowned Federation defense attorney Sam Cogley agrees to defend a Klingon commander who has been charged with the murder of a Federation settlement administrator.  The story is set on a barren colony planet settled (under the terms of the Organian treaty) by both the Federation and Klingons.  Both races are competing to demonstrate who can best utilize the planet's resources and thus win the planet.  Though the competition causes ongoing hostilities, the two respective leaders have worked out a truce creating a on-planet neutral-zone and governing whose law various offenses should be tried under.<br />Problems arise however when it is discovered that the Klingons are rotating in new colonists secretly to make it look like they are better able to manage their area.  Moreover it appears that the Klingons have planted a spy as they seem to know things about the colony before anyone else - including Starfleet.  Things come to a boil when the Federation administrator arranges a late-night meeting with his Klingon counter-part and is found dead with the Klingon standing over him.<br />Sam Cogley (who defended Kirk at his court martial from the TV series) agrees to represent the defendant.  He comes to Aneher to solve the case and uncovers a number of things and perhaps even starts the two cultures on their way toward peace.<br />For Star Trek fans that are mystery lovers this book delivers (it is similar in style to the Perry Mason novels).  For those liking the more traditional style of Star Trek book, you may be disappointed.  Kirk and crew appear for no more than 10-15 pages; however it has a strong plot and is somewhat unique among Star Trek books which generally follow the ship comes and solves problem on planet mold.	2004-02-09
US	49515022	R1KFHMCGEU44HA	0471281085	571682984	The Iron Triangle: Inside the Secret World of the Carlyle Group	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Let the Already Paranoid be Ware	An all but unheard of covert organization that can control the ebb and flow of the resources of the United States and other countries around the world is how Brody describes the Caryle group.  When I picked this up (from the business section) I was expecting an analytical discussion of the business practices of a large monolithic corporation.  That was anything but what was inside ...<br />The Iron Triangle reads more like a mystery novel than a traditional business book, complete with a cast of characters including both Presidents Bush, Colin Powell, Donald Rumsfeld and John Major (fmr. British Prime Minister).  The book describes how political and economic motives intertwine and how the Caryle group always seems to end up on top.<br />Brody (author) is the recognized expert on the subject and he has been following the dealings of the group for years.  However, even with his extensive research, the documentation that he is able to present only hints at something larger.  Unfortunately, this in many times results in Brody going far out on a limb with only limited support at the base.  While he did secure a few interviews (and mentions a few more where the person didn't want their name disclosed), most of the book seems to be based on third-hand sources and conjecture.<br />Obviously it is hard to have a rock-solid case when delving into something that has tried so long to be secret.  And, notably, since the publication of the book, the elder bush has resigned from the group (amid criticism of the severe conflict of interests that was perceived to be occurring). <br />Overall, this is a must-read for anyone who wants to look &quot;behind the covers&quot; of the Caryle group and a good read in general if you find the subject matter of interest.	2004-02-05
US	49515022	R3GWC2KAC4NBVK	0743462785	746190233	What Price Honor? (Enterprise)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Stand Out Among Star Trek Books	What Price Honor is a stand-out among Star Trek books.  Unlike many, which simply fall into the ship stops at planet, crew sees problem, crew solves problem and saves planet mold, What Price Honor weaves an interesting tale, combining scenes from the near past, months earlier and present-day in to a cohesive story.  We gradually learn more about how ensign Alana Hart dies as the near-past and present-day plot-lines advance.  <br />We follow how Ensign Hart goes from a social recluse to finally having a romantic interlude with Malcolm and requesting a transfer right before her death.  Complicataing matters is that this all represents \\"first contact\\" with the Sarkassians and Ta'alaat who are embroiled in a interplanetary war over ownership of technology from a now-extinct advanced society.<br />Malcolm &amp; Captain Archer's desire to resolve what happened to Ensign Hart (who we later learn was actually killed by Malcolm) draws them deep into the thick of the inter-species conflict.	2003-11-13
US	49515022	R1DYY7RNXPXM23	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Exciting Story of Beating the Odds	Who would have thought that a book premised around mathematical probabilities could ever be this interesting? Bringing down the house is the story of a group of MIT students recruited by a former student-turned-gambler who has figured out how to beat the system in Vegas and other casinos around the country.  The book goes into all of the details of the system (and in fact concludes with an essay that explains the system), but suffice it to say, that they had figured out via statistical probabilities, that certain deck configurations offer significant advantage to the player (and others, to the house).  Moreover, they had figured out a card counting technique that allowed them to determine the configuration of the deck.  <br />The fun all begins, though, when our protagonist, Kevin, is introduced by two of his former MIT classmates (they had dropped out previously to pursue gambling) to their system for beating the casinos.  Kevin grasps the system quickly and they are off to Vegas.  <br />Things begin to go down hill (and the story really picks up) when the casinos get wind of what is going on and try to stop it.  Basement-cells, men-in-black suits, IRS audits and roughing-up are all in their future ...  If you've ever been to Vegas (or are about to go) this story features some familiar landmarks - and paints the city in another light.  It is one of the best true-narrative books I've read, but doesn't really seem to have any \\"big point\\" or message other than that the house can be beaten ... (Perhaps that is a message ...)	2003-11-13
US	49515022	R1VOH41S3AGWFQ	0441000681	769194143	Neuromancer	Books	4	4	7	N	N	Required Reading for Internet and Cyberpunk Junkies	In Neuromancer, Gibson paints a picture of a society connected by the &quot;Matrix&quot;, a vast web of interconnected computer systems.  Outside of the computer network, there are areas known as the &quot;Sprawl,&quot; areas close to the sprawl and backwoods areas.  We meet Case in a bar in one of these backwoods areas.<br />Case is a hacker (referred to as a cowboy in the novel) who has lost his ability to connect to the matrix as the result of a deal-gone-bad.  He is all but down and out, running drugs and other particularly risky transactions; he appears to have a death wish.<br />Just as he almost bottoms out, he meets Molly and Armitage who claim to be able to restore his ability to access the matrix ... In exchange for doing &quot;a run&quot; for them and their artificial intelligence boss.<br />The story meticulously weaves scenes from both the real world (as perceived by both Case and Molly) and the Matrix together to form a cohesive story.  Though confusing and slow occasionally, Gibson does a masterful job of pulling us into the story.  Though you must have some familiarity with computers and sci-fi to completely appreciate the story, it is presented in such a way that it is accessible to techie and neophyte alike.<br />Neuromancer is all but required reading for anyone interested in the future of the internet or the Cyberpunk genre.	2003-10-08
US	49515022	R3UAXTG12SY5NR	0814471714	85122285	Secret Service: Hidden Systems That Deliver Unforgettable Customer Service	Books	5	21	21	N	N	A Success-Through-Service Book of the First Order	Secret Service is one of the few business books (that is not a narrative case study) that is actually enjoyable to read.  John Dijulius, owner of John Robert's Hair Studio &amp; Spa, comments on how his business and many others see customer service not as a necessary evil but as integral to (if not entirely) their product.  <br />While the hair and spa industry is primarily a service industry, Dijulius goes far beyond, dealing with how retail and even distribution companies can better serve their customers and the rewards that those who do will reap.  His examples include some of the more obvious ones practitioners as Southwest Airlines and Nordstrom's as well as a number of lesser-known businesses from a variety of industries.  In many cases, he highlights businesses that he has had personal experience with, thus illustrating how a satisfied customer can be much more profitable than any marketing that you can buy.<br />Dijulius also highlights the economics of increasing the value of (and to) your existing customers by reminding them when they may need a product or service and making sure that they are happy after the purchase.  He highlights a variety of systems that he and others use to do this such as follow-up thank you cards, newsletters and personalized notes on invoices.<br />He also reminds us that employee satisfaction is just as important as customer satisfaction (and in fact, directly leads to customer satisfaction).  He highlights systems that his spa has used to retain their best employees and avoid the expense of training, while ensuring consistent service quality for their customers.<br />This is a how to serve your customer better and grow your business book of the first order. More importantly, it is concise, personable, and remarkably enjoyable to read.  This is a must read for anyone working at or managing a business that wants more customers.	2003-10-06
US	49515022	R3KLM79QW6J6PH	0765304368	505704893	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The True Popularity Based Economy	Down and Out in the Magic Kingdom presents a utopian view of the future where money has been abolished and popularity has become the only currency.  Their measure of popularity, called Whuffie, is not spent - instead when you go to get something, the person deciding whether to give it to you checks your Whuffie, and if it is high enough, gives you the item or provides the service.  There is no need to provide goods or services to those with low Whuffie though, as they cannot add to your Whuffie or influence others to.  There are no pour per-se, as Whuffie can also be gained through sympathy, or from the admiration that comes from helping the less fortunate (and it appears that may basic services are guaranteed to all - though the book only touches on this concept once and doesn't completely explore it).<br />The other thing that makes this society unique is that they have succeeded in backing up and restoring people's thoughts and memories - thus eliminating death (technically you die and they restore you into a clone).  Because of this, a new form of passing time called deadheading has evolved, where you are stored in a computer (your body is terminated) until a specified date, and then restored into a new clone.<br />Our protagonist, Julius, is a worker at Disney World who has earned a few doctorates and composed a few symphonies in his over-a-century of life.  We follow him as he explores (and reflects on) life without fear of death (he is actually killed once - almost twice - during the story).  We explore how the dynamics of a popularity-based economy make any sort of planning difficult (because any sort of change in perception can mean that you are no longer in the lead), while Julius tries to preserve the heritage of the Disney World Haunted Mansion (while necessarily improving it to compete).  The book raises interesting questions about mortality and economics and is a fast read.<br />If you are interested in seeing where systems such as Amazon's reviewer rankings and eBay's feedback ratings are going, this book is for you.	2003-10-05
US	49515022	R1NELWOON3R1WV	0451459091	644602277	Nebula Awards Showcase 2003	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Introduction to Sci-Fi or Sample of Best Works	The Nebula awards showcase, 2003 edition, actually highlights award winners from the 2001 Nebula awards (which were actually held in 2002), with many of the pieces having year 2000 publication dates.  Even with the dramatic events that have occurred in these last three years, the Sci-Fi stories remain as relevant as ever.  The book also includes commentary from various Sci-Fi field luminaries on various seemingly un-related topics of their choosing which may serve to introduce the novice Sci-Fi reader to various sub-genres.  The anthology (dont let the word scare you, this book is about 1/6th the size of a Nortons anthology  with much bigger print!) contains six short stories, the first three chapters of the novel The Quantum Rose and two Sci-Fi poems.  As these all are discrete works, unified only by their award or runner-up status, I will look at each separately:<br />The Cure for Everything<br />Maria is an administrator at the Xingu forest preserve, a reservation for displaced Amazon natives whose home-lands have been assimilated by civilization.  A group of natives arrive from the Hiller project, which Maria learns is a drug-company front, using the natives unique biology to develop cures for diseases  like Marias.  Maria learns that with the right husband, called by the author The Cure for Everything she can have children.  She quickly resolves her ethical dilemma <br />The Ultimate Earth<br />Set in the far-future, The Ultimate Earth presents a utopian society where birth and death are carefully controlled.  Since humans never die, only when people leave for colonization can others breed.  Most of the story takes place on a moon base which is being restored.  The moon base was developed by old humanity (before the genetic modifications) as a refuge from which to re-start the species if the unthinkable happened.  Though it appears to have been used once for that purpose in the past, it has since crumbled.  Now it remains as the onlyrecord of old-humanity.<br />The children-turned-young-adults are told that there is no place for them now on earth, but sneak to the surface by lying to a shuttle (the ability to deceive has been eliminated by new humanity).  They learn first-hand that there really is no place for them there, where they are regarded as savages.  When a colony ship surprisingly returns and, due to population control, must leave immediately for another destination, the moon-children leave on it and find a planet where a plague is wiping out new-humanity<br />Louises Ghost<br />In a story that illustrates the problem with labeling and shows us how well we can recognize others  not by their name but by what they say and do  Louises ghost deals with two women named Louise and ones daughter Anna<br />When Louise (the one without the daughter) finds that a ghost of a naked man is haunting her house, Louise (the one with the daughter) brings over her musician friends to try to convince the ghost to inhabit their instruments.  Louise (without daughter) accidentally sleeps with Louises current love, which causes a feud between them until she dies a Louise finds that she has been designated as Annas guardian.  Then she wishes that she could be haunted by Louises ghost <br />Undone<br />What if you could go back and forward in time on command?  What if you could alter your biology on whim?  These three fundamental rights are guaranteed to all of the Trueborn:  The right to remain individual, the right to manipulate your physical structure and the right to access the timeline.  Their foe, the utopians, though seek to provide harmony through homogeny.  They have blockaded the planet and placed an identity mine, which strips anyone who travels back in time more than five minute of being able to remember their identity.<br />To flee the Utopians attack, Mada commands her ship to travel forward in time  she just doesnt specify how far.  The ship travels two-tenths of a glactic rotation or about twenty-million years.  Her Trueborn society is gone, and the Utopians appear to be as well.  What she does find is a new society where attention is the only currency.  The only think that is expected of her is to comment on every experience  eating, listening, etc. She meets a poet who writes about death  but like everyone else in this society  suppresses all bad memories by checking them into the library.  The two go off to another planet and have children.  Mada prepares to make the ultimate sacrifice for them  her identity  but is saved when the ship gains consciousness and creates something of a paradox <br />My Wife Returns as She Would Have It and January Fires<br />These two poems (both under two pages in length) both comment on the human condition.  The former discussing the desire for life after death, the latter questioning whether a dream is worth dying for.<br />The Elephants on Neptune<br />Men land on Neptune (who knew it was solid!) and meet a pack of Neptunian elephants.  They discuss the long-time relationship between men and elephants (who not surprisingly are now extinct on earth).  As the men try to convince the elephants (who have not forgotten how their species was eliminated) that they are friendly, they start turning into elephants and the elephants turn into men <br />The Quantum Rose<br />In this full-length novel, of which only the first few chapters are presented here to wet readers appetite, we discover a planet which has evolved far beyond modern earth, but forgotten how to make the technology, thus reverting to the stone age in many ways.  The frame work of the present economic system remains, though, but due to a loss of understanding of the language, it has become somewhat perverted, thus forming an odd commentary on the present corporate culture.  When Kamoj is forced to marry a man she has never seen (and who remains cloaked at their wedding), we are left in suspense as she goes to remove the cloak while he sleeps <br />Overall, if you like Sci-Fi, this book will introduce you to a variety of sub-genres and excellent long-time and new Sci-Fi writers.  This is a must-own for any Sci-Fi addict.	2003-09-29
US	49515022	R1B7NVIU4WFW4R	0471089656	566112709	Piloting Palm: The Inside Story of Palm, Handspring, and the Birth of the Billion-Dollar Handheld Industry	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Definitive Chronology	From Hawkins initial vision until early 2002, Piloting Palm chronicles the birth of the handheld industry's first real success story: Palm.  The triumphs and set-backs are re-lived in detail in this page-turner that is augmented by numerous quotes from Hawkins and the others who lived it.  The book is more of a chronology, and with the exception of evidencing a very pro-Palm and later pro-Handspring bias (one of the authors worked for Palm's marketing division previously), the book avoids drawing any conclusions about the companies and their successes and failures.<br />Insight, however, abounds from the quotes which appear on literally almost every page.  The authors' access to the managers of the two companies is quite impressive; however, the book is little more than a narrative of what happened and doesn't really comment on how the principals felt that they could have improved on their performance or what lessons can be applied from their struggles to other businesses.  In fact, the book talks more about how to build a PDA than a business.<br />The book will probably be regarded as the definitive history of the companies, but it really doesn't go far beyond that, and forces the reader who is looking to apply the lessons to search deeply within to extract the gold nuggets that are hidden throughout.	2003-09-29
US	49515022	R3RHN0502AENU3	0812538927	40942828	Putting Up Roots: A Jupiter Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Long Way From The Farm	When fourteen year old Josh Kerrigan is sent to live with his aunt and uncle on their farm, his first surprise is that his aunt has died and his uncle has remarried to a woman named Stacy who is more interested in getting rid of him and his autistic cousin Dawn then in any sort of farming.  She has arranged, much to Uncle Ryan's distaste with a large conglomerate to take over their small farm and provide them with a new farm on a largely unexplored planet called Solferino.  There is just one catch - someone must go there immediately to stake their claim.  She sends Josh and Dawn - though it appears that she has little intent of following.<br />Once there, it seems that everything is amiss.  First, when the group arrives, there is no one there to greet them.  Later, an unexpected maintenance technician shows up.  Their boss, Sol Brewster, keeps moving them around like he is trying to hide something.  Then suddenly the computer system and communication system fail - at virtually the same time - thus preventing them from investigating what is going on or seeking help from outside.<br />Things get more alarming when they begin to see strange ships on the horizon. Now Kerrigan and his fellow teens must uncover the secret of Solferino.  They will come within inches of death trying to figure it out.<br />Putting up Roots may not be the most consistently exciting book that you ever read; in fact, there is a point in the middle where it gets a little slow - the proverbial calm before the storm.  But, like in most good mysteries, once we - and the characters - begin to understand the facts, the book becomes a page-turner that is nearly impossible to put down.  The book deals with a variety of ethical issues surrounding child labor, space exploration and inhabitation rights.  A good read that seems targeted at either teen or adult (similar, in that nature, to Ender's Game), Putting Up Roots won't leave you disappointed.	2003-09-29
US	49515022	R3QSTOV4GY4V4Y	0765340054	582223695	Shadow Puppets (The Shadow Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Beware of the Trojan Horse	In this latest chapter of the Ender's Game saga, we find Peter, Bean and many of the other battle school grads only a slight distance from where we left them in the last book.  The plot of Shadow Puppets revolves around Peter's decision to liberate Achilles from his Chinese captors.  Everything collapses, though, when it appears that Achilles was not actually a prisoner at all but instead his supposed imprisonment is part of a deliberate ruse that Peter has walked right into.  In a few seconds, Peters world changes.  He learns to trust his parents, realizes that he isn't always right and has to flee his Hegemony compound.<br />The world is dividing itself into factions, Bean decides to have a child, and much more ...  This book is a must read for anyone enthralled by the Ender saga!	2003-09-15
US	49515022	R1G3KIXP174HAP	0071402853	374989688	Your Pilot's License	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Introduction to Flying &amp; Pilot's License	Your Pilot's License provides a simple, concise guide to getting your license to fly.  Eichenberger describes both how to actually fly a plane as well as the process by which one learns how and is licensed to do so.  Eichenberger's experience as a flight instructor (CFI) clearly shows, as much of the book reads like a flight lesson.  <br />The book is a must-read for anyone thinking about taking up flying or who has just started taking lessons.  Not only does is summarize what to expect, it also provides a wealth of knowledge that should help make your lessons more effective.  Eichenberger explains complicated concepts in simple English.  Particularly helpful to the beginning pilot will be his explanations of how lift works and how to &quot;fly the box&quot; taking wind into account. <br />For those who have been flying for a period of time, the book offers very little (other than perhaps nostalgia about those first flights).  If you don't already know what is covered in this book (and in some areas, significantly more than is covered) you really shouldn't be flying a plane.  <br />For those looking to get their flight instructor certificate, this book holds particular value as it will help you learn how to teach your students!  It is also very helpful in remaining us how if felt &quot;from the other side.&quot;	2003-09-01
US	49515022	R3VVTLJIQ5OG7Q	1578516730	469556962	Code Name Ginger: The Story Behind Segway and Dean Kamen's Quest to Invent a New World	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A Look Inside the Whirlwind	If Edison or Ford had allowed us a peak inside their laboratories, what would it have been like?  Clearly visiting one of the various museums dedicated to them does not do justice to the events that went on there.  While Dean Kamen?s legacy is not yet assured to be within this group, we fortunately will have a chronology.<br />Kemper has captured the mystique of the engineering marvel in a book that reads more like a novel than a traditional business book.  The various, frank participant comments that he recorded allow us to gain insight into the engineering and management challenges that Segway has overcome.  <br />Many within the startup and capital space suggest that every founder should be cognizant of when it is time to step down and allow others to run more of the show, and Kemper paints Kamen as no exception to this.  The book illustrates how Kamen?s micro-management may have caused the project to take longer and cost more than it may have needed to.  It also shows how Kamen?s belief in Ginger along with his charm and salesmanship may be what ended up making Segway a success in the end.<br />The book?s only shortfall comes from Kemper?s expulsion just prior to the Segway?s announcement and launch.  Due to his loss of access to the project?s participants at this point, we are prevented from hearing reflections and thus being able to evaluate the success of the project?s culture and management style.  Hopefully others from the Segway team will choose to codify their commentary on their experience at some point.<br />Code Name Ginger will allow you to understand what goes on from idea to creation.  It would be difficult not to be drawn in to the engineer?s &amp; manager?s struggle to overcome obstacles to bring the Segway to fruition.  It is a look inside the whirlwind ?	2003-07-27
US	49515022	R3Q87PGJIF946Y	0743227905	19731471	The Big Red Fez: How To Make Any Web Site Better	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Review of the Obvious	Some things are so obvious that we shouldn't need to be reminded about them.  Unfortunately, while how to design a useful web site should be in this category, according to Seth Godin, it isn't.  <br />In this 100-page book, Godin advocates the simple marketing principal of putting only, as he says it, \\"one banana\\" per page - that is only asking the user to do one thing at a time by focusing on the question, `what do you want the user to actually do?'  He demonstrates the effectiveness of this principal by having a single main point for each two-page site-review.<br />The book also provides a simple metric for designing sites - the further along (or closer to giving you their money / permission / etc.) the more valuable he or she is.  As such, the site should direct users along the path to purchase (etc.) not sidetrack them with other suggestions or paths.<br />The book is not a collection of general principals, but rather a critique of over fifty actual web pages, some praised, others picked apart.  As such, the application of the principals is crystal-clear.<br />The book is clear and concise and (like many of Godin's other books) is a must-read for anyone designing, marketing-through, or engineering a website.	2003-07-19
US	49515022	R1ALZ1UVSWL67Y	0393049825	310723265	Naked Economics: Undressing the Dismal Science	Books	5	2	5	N	N	A primer in �the big picture�	For those that have not yet had the chance to be exposed to or do not completely understand the fundamental principals that govern the world's economy, Naked Economics presents simply, elegantly and with numerous examples, the basic principals which can cause an economic explosion to turn into a depression or vice-versa.  Though, as Wheelan states a number of times through the book, economics may not have all of the answers, it can certainly help us understand what the right questions to be asking in a particular situation are.<br />The book explains important economic concepts such as externalities (when a person or group does not pay fully for the economic, social, etc. costs of their actions) and resource valuation, but more importantly applies them to real-world situations (why is Bill Gates' house bigger then mine?; why do pour countries seem to get pourer?)<br />The book is written as a dialog between author and writer and avoids confusing matters by presenting equations and charts.  Instead, concepts are explained and applied making the book accessible to those with virtually no knowledge of economics.<br />If you are interested in knowing more about economics and how it effects the world around you or if you need a bigger-picture overview to help with understanding specific areas of economic study, this book is for you.	2003-07-19
US	49515022	R16KZO7CIEM3VR	0375753494	979654948	The Young Entrepreneur's Edge: Using Your Ambition,  Independence, and Youth to Launch a Succesful Business (Career Guides)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Introduction to Running A Business	If you've ever wondered what running your own business would be like you really only have two choices: look towards the sky and daydream or give it a shot.  If you choose the later, Kushell's The Young Entrepreneur's Edge can help you along that path.<br />The book is basically a \\"how to\\" for starting a business.  It presents and answers all of the questions that you might really need to know the answer to, but felt too stupid to ask.  It also touches on many things that a first-time entrepreneur may be unaware of or forget (like IRS withholding, etc.).  <br />The book is primarily for someone planning to start a business for the first time and will offer little advice to the seasoned business-owner.  Of value, though, especially to younger readers (of all levels of business experience) are the sections on dealing with perception of youth in a business context which may get a more thorough treatment here than in any other manuscript.  Entrepreneurs of all ages and experience-levels will also enjoy the start-up-stories that pepper the book.  <br />The books one real lack, however, may be in the accuracy department.  For example, Kushell gets the IRS 1099 and W2 form confused, which may seem like a simple mistake but could inadvertently subject a business to a variety of liability (W2 employees are the traditional salaried/wage employees where the 1099 form is used for reporting income for independent contractors - [website] has extensive information on tax forms).  The book, thus, is a good overview and may alert you to things that need to be looked into further, but additional research will be required to verify and understand each topic.<br />Overall, the book is a must-read for anyone under 30 starting a \\"real\\" business for the first time.  For others, it may serve as a refresher or provide an amusing read, but will be of limited usefulness.	2003-06-23
US	49515022	R1B7IUD057XCIZ	0609610937	621778433	All the Rave: The Rise and Fall of Shawn Fanning's Napster	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Chronology of a Boom Turned Bust	Sean Fanning's Napster is widely regarded as the poster child for the dot-com-bubble's bust.  In some ways that description is very apt.  Characterizing the company as a VC-baby that never developed a business model and whose fame was based on giving away other's property would hardly be inaccurate.  But All The Rave author Joeseph Menn goes far beyond the hype and failure to provide a detailed analysis and chronology of the company from pre-inception to post-collapse.<br />Menn, whose resume includes the LA Times and Bloomberg, takes an unbiased look at Napster and the decisions that they made.  He documents the internal fighting that he proffers as the cause of the company's failure.  He provides details about every Napster transaction, from the original 30/70 split between Sean Fanning and his uncle (respectively), the company's angel funding, investment by Hummer Winblad, the Bertelsmann loan, and the company's eventual bankruptcy.<br />The book, though, reads more like a novel than a business book.  The book also incorporates afterthoughts from the company's principals about what they would have done differently in retrospect.  With the exception of John Fanning (who ostensibly refused interview requests), Mann incorporates lessons learned from all of the principals both interspersed within the heart of the book and in a post-mortem chapter that serves as an epilogue.<br />For a company that once flew so high to have died so quickly is somewhat amazing (though not as much so today as perhaps it was five years ago).  This book chronologies that trip.  It is an exciting ride!	2003-06-22
US	49515022	R2R5E6BVTK4F7D	159184021X	557165611	Purple Cow: Transform Your Business by Being Remarkable	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Ask yourself, how can you miss the purple cow?	How can you pass reading a business-genre book about purple cows - the latest \\"p\\" in the marketing buzz?  The point is that you can't.  Just like how, if you were standing in a field of cows, the purple one would stand out while the rest were boring.  The real secret though, according to Godin, is that sometimes it takes as little as changing a color or rotating the title of a book 90-degrees to have a distinct product that consumers want to find out about and purchase: what Godin calls a purple cow.  Godin shows us through example how we can change our businesses to be a purple cow and makes a compelling case for doing so.  He suggests that any business who doesn't re-invest in cow-creation will be doomed to long-term failure (even if it creates a short-term success)<br />The book is exceptionally well written, jammed-packed with examples and mini-case-studies and will provide you with an extensive \\"also read\\" list when done.  But more importantly, the fact that we are interested in the purple-cow concept really indicates that it works!	2003-05-09
US	49515022	R2OEX0PSIO5LFI	0762413271	265952350	Everything I Know About Business I Learned From Monopoly: Successful Executives Reveal Strategic Lessons From The World's Greatest Board Game	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Monopoly as a Business Simulation	In the \\"real world\\" it is quite difficult to accurately assess all of the conditions that lead to a venture's success or failure.  There are myriad reasons why the information needed to do so is simply not available which range from disclosure restrictions for a continuing business to fear of suit by the principals of a failed business.  As such, it is, as a rule, quite difficult to completely analyze the success or failure of a real enterprise - though many have tried. <br />In Everything I Know About Business I Learned From Monopoly, Axelrod tries to impart business wisdom through a mechanism that can be completely analyzed, the game of Monopoly.  As such, he provides insightful commentary on how the game and the \\"real world\\" are both similar and different.  He illustrates, for example, how in business watching for industry or customer-base changes is similar to watching for the change of game phases in Monopoly, and how both are critical to the decisions that you make to ensure continued prosperity.<br />Over all, the book is very specific on Monopoly-playing suggestions (mentioning the probabilities attached to rolling dice and landing on properties many times) and somewhat vague on the specifics of applying these principals in business.  This is to be expected, though, as the book is clearly about analyzing the game and applying the lessons learned to the business world.  Within that context, it does its job quite well.<br />This book is basically a simulation and, like any simulation, its value is determined by the reader's ability to apply its lessons to reality.  At the very least, you will get to read a variety of interesting quotations by industry-leaders; for the more attentive and imaginative readers, the game of Monopoly will provide a whole new mechanism for testing strategies for business in general.	2003-05-03
US	49515022	R3UTO88D10JW3X	0060523794	577741355	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance?:  Inside IBM's Historic Turnaround	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Elephants Can Dance!	Who Says Elephants Can't Dance? is Gerstner's chronology of and reflections on the years that he ran IBM.  He details the situation that he faced when he left RJR Nabisco for IBM and how he was unsure initially as to whether he could turn the company around.  Gerstner outlines the steps that took and the policies that he put in place to change the strategy and culture of the company.  He notes that when he came, IBM was a company where you were \\"guaranteed\\" a job for life, even while the company was laying people of by the masses.  He also points out that as opposed to competing with their competitors such as Unisys, HP, Dell, Oracle and others, most of managers time was spent in internal political contest.  <br />Through a strategy of listening to customers' needs, eliminating the compensation and recognition systems that created the internal fiefdoms and partnering with customers, quasi-competitors and other industry leaders, he was able to restore IBM to a more stable position within the industry.  He also changed the perception of the company from the conservative black suit, white shirt previously required to be worn by all employees to that of a dynamic company which became synonymous with e-business (a term coined, incidentally, by IBM).<br />As Gerstner says towards the end of the book, his strategy was based on a simple concept, that of an elephant dancing:  While an elephant stands still, ants can scurry around the floor, but if the elephant can dance, all of the ants will be forced from the floor.<br />Will the strategies Gerstner mentions work for others?  Potentially -- Gerstner cautions against simply trying to drop his strategies into other situations.  If nothing else, knowing what worked at IBM (and more importantly what didn't work and how it was fixed) provides additional management tools for us all.  <br />The book, which was written entirely by Gerstner (no ghostwriter, etc.), is remarkably candid.  Gerstner outlines the areas where he feels hesucceeded and those where he failed or which remain a qualified success.  He also highlights the struggles along the way and the way he refined and changed his programs over time.  Gerstner's candidness is really this book's greatest strength and will make it a business-classic in the years to come.	2003-04-28
US	49515022	RH8MZU7QNE3U0	0793144345	87333808	Power of Six Sigma	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Overview of the Six Sigma Concept	The Power of Six Sigma provides a very accessible way to get a basic understanding of the six sigma concept.  Presented as a discussion between a failed manager at an `old-style' management division and a shooting star at a six sigma division of a food company, the book outlines the six sigma concept and provides fictional examples of how the six sigma process can help in real-life situations.  <br />The book is written as a primer for those who are considering using six sigma within their organization as well as for those participating as black belts (six sigma trained implementers), project sponsors or participating workers (called green belts).  It identifies the rewards possible both for the organization and the implementers, and makes a strong case for trying it.  <br />If you're looking for a brief, easy-to-read, overview this book fits the bill.  If you are looking for instructions on how to lead a six sigma project, this book may serve as a good introduction, but does not contain the depth necessary to actually implement six sigma.	2003-04-24
US	49515022	R1VC2ZSNNFHOMK	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	4	1	4	N	N	Don't be left without cheese, a reminder for business & life	In language reminiscent of \\"One fish, two fish; red fish, blue fish\\", Spencer guides us through his sub-one-hundred page parable illustrating how different types of people react to change and creating a clear picture of the model to emulate.  Though, on surface, the book may seem like a somewhat childish, the lessons presented are both ageless and timeless.  Spencer proffers that it is better to adapt to change than be staunchly opposed to it.  He further instructs that searching for change to adapt to it proactively is better than simply adapting to it when it shows up.  Simple lessons, but they are clearly something that many in our society lack understanding of or desire to do.  Moreover, they are relevant regardless of exactly what your job is.  While some may read it as a book about looking for and adapting to change within their organization, others may read it as a book about adapting to market conditions.<br />The book seems particularly suited for reading in groups, as the humorous names of the characters can be used to remind one another of the bad behaviors that each person is falling into in a friendly, funny, unthreatening way.	2003-04-21
US	49515022	RHVYC5Q4GN894	1891984993	835950532	Many Miles to Go: A Modern Parable for Business	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Learning about life from crossing the Sahara	Many Miles to Go combines a enthralling real-life story of Tracy's trek across Africa's Sahara desert and his reflective commentary on what he learned and what we could learn from his experiences.  Unlike the typical business or personal development book, Many Miles to Go is a narrative that also has the remarkable ability to deliver Tracy's key points about success both in your career and life.  If the book had to be summarized in just a few words, they would be to set a goal and begin moving towards it and to treat each experience along the way as preparation for something later.  The book is a must-read for anyone who wants to reach, as Tracy would say, their full potential.	2003-04-21
US	49515022	R37KDNYNUL2YTE	060960922X	497780127	Love Is the Killer App: How to Win Business and Influence Friends	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Showing a Little Love Can Go a Long Way in Business	Yahoo's Tim Sanders describes in Love is the Killer App how he stumbled on a very successful philosophy.  Sanders advocates taking a true interest in someone's career or business and trying to help them through introductions and advice with no specific expectation of remuneration.  He says that first, you will be perceived as an expert of sorts (for knowing what or who you know) and second that the person will feel somewhat endeared to you for thinking of them.  The benefits, he suggests, in the long run will reward you.<br />Sanders also suggests that you read as much as possible, so that you have a little bit of knowledge about any subject that could come up.  He stresses that books are far more useful than newspapers/magazines/etc. as they extrapolate on their subject and are able to provide an abundant source of additional information should the need arise (though he does point out that magazines do have particular value in some instances).<br />All-in-all the book does have some valuable suggestions and is definitely worth reading.  Some of his suggestions are very specific to sales people for service industries and may be difficult to implement if you work for a product-centric company or are not in sales.  Most suggestions, though, are universal.  If you want a way to be happier, have more professional acquaintances, and go further in life, this book should be a definite addition to your reading list.	2003-04-19
US	49515022	R3C97L2YCUFAR2	0385491743	645558152	The 80/20 Principle: The Secret to Achieving More with Less	Books	3	376	386	N	N	Good Explination of Concept; Don't Read Cover-to-Cover	In The 80/20 Principle, Koch proffers that 20 percent of what companies and individuals do generates over 80 percent of their positive results (a theory that he attributes to Vilfredo Pareto, an Italian economist around the turn of the 20th century).  Koch proposes that by identifying the 20 percent of the activities that generate 80 percent of the results and increasing the effort put into those 20-percent activities you can dramatically improve results.  To this end he provides an astute evaluation of the economic and social realities of business. <br />Koch goes further, though, and tries to extrapolate the 80/20 theory to success, happiness and life in general.  While some of what he suggests makes sense, his examples seem to get progressively weaker as he moves away from the world of business.<br />The book's other main flaw results from its severe organizational problems.  Koch seems to have a very limited number of examples - and because of their repeated re-use (and in many cases their limited pertinence to the topic at hand) the book seems to weave in and out of topics, making it somewhat difficult to follow for anything else than a linear read.<br />The principal, itself, is almost a truism, which as Koch points out, is not thought about nearly enough.  The books main strength is that he explains the concept quite well.  Unfortunately, the extrapolation to life in general and the organizational difficulties make 80 percent of the book just not worth reading.  Read the first two chapters - they explain the principal - and the last chapter (which basically explains all of the extrapolation theories) then put the book down - you will have read the 20% of the book that contains over 80% of the value!	2002-12-02
US	49515022	R3FQWXYH8UGKE4	0767901843	289832511	Nuts!: Southwest Airlines' Crazy Recipe for Business and Personal Success	Books	5	7	8	N	N	You'd Have To Be Nuts Not To Read It	In Nuts! the Freibergs (husband and wife, co-authors) detail and explain the success of Southwest Airlines.  They go far beyond simply analyzing the company and its key &quot;LUV&quot; ingredient for success.<br />Through consulting and their later work in preparation for this book, the Freibergs have intimate knowledge of Southwest's operations, and put it to good use in presenting the company to readers.  Moreover, they overtly show their enthusiasm for Southwest: the book is packed with words of praise from the Fribergs, Southwest employees, customers, and outsiders including GE's Jack Welch.  All of these testimonials help to make the case that employees really do love what they do.<br />The book is separated into four sections: the first details the history of Southwest.  The second focuses on how Southwest does business; the third deals with the building blocks of the company's success.  Finally, the book concludes -- and culminates -- with a section on how readers can incorporate Southwest techniques within their own business or work environment.<br />These &quot;secrets&quot; to success are simple: trust your people, treat them as people (not &quot;resources&quot; or &quot;employees&quot;), celebrate the good, and make information easily available to everyone.  As simple as they may be, the authors argue that many companies overlook them in deference to policy and procedure.  Nuts! advocates that the People come first, the customers second, and everything else starts at third.<br />Even the best books have their problems, and Nuts! is hurt by the excessive presentation of anecdotes and letters from customers in boxes, which you must stop to read.  While they defiantly add something to the book, readability would have been improved by including them in-line with the text.<br />Overall, this book is clearly a must-read for managers and employees alike.  It is an enjoyable fast read and most everyone will take something valuable away from it!	2002-09-05
US	49515022	RAYW1X35LM7PL	0618126945	229916835	Sony: A Private Life	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Unveiling the Sony Mystique	Many business books focus exclusively on the physical evidence left behind by a business: the profit and loss statements, product plans and reviews while ignoring the essence of the company.  In Sony: The Private Life, Nathan goes far beyond the polished exterior that Sony projects to the world; far beyond simplicity of the money that Sony made and spent.  Instead he presents Sony as the complex creature that it is.<br />The book combines interviews with Sony executives and extensive research.  From the first day in post WWII Japan to mid-1998 with offices worldwide, Nathan chronicles the growth of the company.  Special attention is paid to how Sony designs and develops products.  Nathan delves into the creation of Sony's highly profitable Trinitron line and the birth of the Walkman.  Attention is paid to how Sony desires to be consistently different-and-better than its competition, though in some cases, the result is simply being different.<br />Unfortunately, Nathan seems to walk the company walk in some cases, not delving into controversial subjects as deeply as readers might like.  This may, simply, be due to the lack of additional sources on the subject, as much of the book is spent discussing activities that occurred far from the public view.  However, as Nathan had already completed several projects for Sony before writing the book, one has to question whether he was able to maintain complete objectivity.  In fact, sometimes, Nathan seems more awful of Sony and the Sony founders than he describes most Sony employees as being.<br />Overall, Sony: The Private Life is an exceptional book.  It provides valuable insight into the operations and management style of a Japanese company.  Moreover, Nathan's attention to the players, as opposed to simply the company, allows readers understanding to go far beyond that provided by most business books.  If you want to understand Sony or Japanese corporations in general, this is the book to buy.	2002-08-31
US	49515022	R142IRHZ8T7BLA	1565302990	406279507	Taco Titan: The Glen Bell Story	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Profile, Not So Good Business Book	One might think a book containing Glen Bell's &quot;recipes for success&quot; would be primarily a business book; Taco Titan most definitely is not.<BR> <BR>In Taco Titan, Baldwin through a mix of research, interviews with friends, family and Bell himself pieces together the Taco Titan's life, from early childhood living in near-poverty to the rise of Taco Bell and culminating with the establishment of Bell Gardens.  Baldwin clearly has great admiration for Bell, and she certainly hits upon all of the key points in his (and Taco Bell's) life.  The book is well written, easy to read, and the occasional use of suspense and foreshadowing makes it hard to put down.<br />Unfortunately, the entire story is presented as seen through rose-colored glasses.  The book is a combination of biography and autobiography in the worst way.  In an autobiography, the subject, reflecting on his or her life generally is somewhat introspective and points out things that they wish they had done differentially.  In a biography, the biographer points out both the subject's success and failings.  From reading this book, one would get the idea that everything in Bell's life simply fell into place.  It mentions not one mistake nor any regrets on the part of Bell.  Moreover the &quot;recipes for success&quot; at the end of each chapter seem to suggest that each experience was not only perfect, but a standard to be emulated.  A number things that one might perceive as set backs are presented (such as when Bell, during his divorce, &quot;gives&quot; his entire net worth to his wife) but they are glossed over, and generally presented as a choice Bell made, not a product of circumstance.<br />Since this is the only book on Taco Bell, if you want to know about the company and its founder, it is the book to buy.  Just don't expect to learn much more than a timeline of Bell's life from it.	2002-08-29
US	49515022	R1XSCH8V84HNCN	0738206911	635769802	Inside The Cult Of Kibu: And Other Tales Of The Millennial Gold Rush	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Collection of Anecdotes, Little Else	For a book classified as &quot;business&quot; this book spends a remarkably small amount of time discussing business.  Instead, Inside the Cult of Kibu is a collection of anecdotes from Gottlieb's experiences at Kibu and others' experiences working at dot-coms and in the dot-com world.  <BR> <BR>The book's greatest strength is clearly its organization: each of the ten chapters contains anecdotes regarding only one topic, ranging from hiring to IPOs to layoffs and the post-dot-com.  The book is an enjoyable read composed of brief stories held together by Gottlieb's and Jabobs' commentary.  Each chapter starts with Gottlieb's experience at Kibu which gives what would otherwise have been a very scattered book a consistent flow and feeling.<br />As enjoyable as it is to read; however, at the end the book leaves the reader with little else than a sense of the absurdity of the whole dot-com bubble.  There is no discussion of why dot-coms failed, or even why some gathered the &quot;cult&quot; following that they did.  Instead, the book might be best described as the transcription of a bar conversation: every few minutes you will laugh, but at the end of the night you really haven't gotten a whole lot out of it.<br />If you were part of the dot-com euphoria, than you probably will enjoy the book as a memoir.  If however, you are trying to learn about, understand or analyze, you will be left severely disappointed by Inside the Cult of Kibu.	2002-08-28
US	49515022	R3OEB6385MNVIM	0425156095	585185077	If I Knew Then What I Know Now	Books	2	6	10	N	N	If I Knew Then What I Know Now, I Wouldn't Have Bought It	There are a great many good books that share insight from business leaders on how young want-to-be-executives can advance through the ranks, unfortunately this isn't one of them.<br />On the positive side, there are a number of excellent quotes within the book, ranging from a suggestion of managing time by opening mail at 4:30 PM and thus not loosing control of your day every time a so-called emergency occurs to encouraging everyone to take more risks.  The quotes are arranged into sections by their relevance to a particular topic.  These topics include \\"things you should know\\", \\"things you'll be better off knowing\\", \\"things you'll be nicer off knowing\\" and \\"things learned the hard way\\".  Edler does an exceptional job explaining some of the more cryptic or just incredibly short quotes.<br />Unfortunately, filling the 200-or-so pages not containing valuable insight are repeated suggestions to spend more time with family and find religion.  While these topics are obviously important to their contributors, one really has to wonder if these people would be where they are now, if they had taken their own advice.  Moreover, while the suggestions are clearly valid, they really don't need to be repeated numerous times throughout the book; some editorial discursion should have been exercised.<br />The 242 page book will take most readers only about an hour to complete, as many pages contain only 25-50 words, in very large print (note that this is not designed to be a &quot;big print&quot; book as Edler's side-column notes are generally printed in a very small print).  Moreover, many of these &quot;CEOs and Other Smart Executives&quot; are virtual unknowns, like many of the companies that they work for.  There are some pleasant surprises buried within, but much is simply filler.<br />If you are looking for a waxing, philosophical guide to living what the contributors feel would have been a better life, for them, then this is the book for you.  If on the other hand, you are looking for a book about how to advance through the ranks, and become the successor to one of these contributors, you would be better served elsewhere.	2002-08-28
US	49515022	R3GRQDQW3DBZ8M	0140257314	862860047	Startup: A Silicon Valley Adventure	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Chronology of a Failure	In Startup, Go's Jerry Kaplan (better known for his later success with onsale.com) recounts how he and his team built the company from an idea, and how due to internal politics and competition the walls came tumbling down.<br />Kaplan takes us through the twists and turns of forming a company, describing, in detail, how he secured venture capital and found Go's first few key people.  He comments extensively on the changing competitive landscape throughout Go's history.  The EO spin-off, IBM and AT&amp;T deals and all other major events in Go's life are detailed.  The book is a quick read, written like a first person novel, not a stuffy business book.<br />The book's biggest flaw, however, is that it is written entirely from Kaplan's perspective.  Throughout, he blames situation, competitors and others for the various problems that Go encountered; Kaplan though, fails to review his own actions and how they may have contributed to Go's demise -- unfortunately this could have been the most beneficial analysis: allowing us to learn from what Kaplan perceived as his mistakes.<br />Over all, Startup is well written, and a &quot;must read&quot; for anyone working for or contemplating starting a tech company.	2002-08-25
US	49515022	RZ5H8YWAX6EI0	0385493444	340015779	Lessons from the Top: The 50 Most Successful Business Leaders in America--and What You Can Learn From Them	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Excellent Consolidation of Perspectives	There are many good books on business out there, but few combine the experiences of so many leading executives on the subject.  Lessons From the Top includes interviews with 50 of the most respected leaders from America's top businesses.  Especially attractive are the interviews with the execs that didn't author a book themselves.<br />That being said, the book has a number of problems:  First, a very significant amount of the book is devoted to explaining how the authors chose the people that they chose, and explaining why they were the right people to be writing this book.  What should have been a brief introduction and perhaps an appendix, became the first and last sections of the book and unfortunately, unless you are a statistician, these areas are quite boring.  Second, the authors lost the individual voices of the people that they interviewed.  Perhaps for consistency or brevity, they paraphrased so much and only introduced quotations as small parts of larger paragraphs that you really aren't able to tell the voice of the various people apart.<br />Also of note is that this book includes sections on Enron's Ken Lay and WorldCom's Bernie Ebbers -- perhaps not exactly the model to emulate -- but hindsight is 20/20 ...<br />All in all, Lessons From the Top is an well written book, rewarding for those just starting in business or those simply looking for a new opinion.  Also, the authors have included (within the sections about the executive) names of various people (and the books that they wrote) who influenced the executive, so you may find other books to explore when you are done.	2002-08-24
US	49515022	R2CQZNBXU7MYUF	0471356522	269541301	From Worst to First: Behind the Scenes of Continental's Remarkable Comeback	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Strong Management / Business Redesign Book	In From Worst to First Continental CEO Gordon Bethune discusses how he and his team turned around Continental Airlines (then on the verge of bankruptcy) and produced the profitable, customer-friendly airline that Continental is today.<br />The book is a good read, filled with numerous examples.  Bethune takes the reader through the process that occurred at Continental and comments extensively on how the techniques that he applied could be applied to other businesses.  However, Bethune neglects, in many cases to explain the thought process behind the decision that he made.  In some cases this is expected: most readers will obviously know that a business needs capital to operate.  In others, such as some of his less generally-accepted employee relations techniques, he explains only what he did not why he did it.  Because of this, the book is more of a &quot;how to&quot; than a case study on Continental.<br />Also of note, this book primarily deals with a turn-around situation, and while some of the techniques presented are clearly applicable in any business, others deal specifically with a business that is well established and experiencing difficulty.  Other techniques deal primarily with large organizations, and may be of only minimal use to an executive at a smaller company.<br />Over all From Worst to First is a good read, and the information and techniques provided will well justify the time spent reading it!	2002-08-23
US	49515022	R2BYTD1V0DGNRN	081331951X	459752409	The Art of War (History and Warfare)	Books	5	69	77	N	N	Excellent Book, Good Translation	There are two critical things to consider when deciding to purchase a book such as the Art of War: the first being the content / author of the book and the second being the translator.  This book deserves 5 stars for both.  Sun Tzu's Art of War is the de facto standard on military strategy, and Sawyers translation and reference material take the work to new heights.  Sawyer has a strong grasp of the material -- and discusses (through the introduction and footnotes) the times and military methods that brought about this brilliant work.  The book has a number of minor typographical errors (such as lines of text that appear as the last line of one page, and the first line of the next) but overall these errors are minor annoyances at worst.	2002-04-16
US	49515022	R3QW01IVM7KW6V	0345339681	276015944	The Hobbit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book, Great Prequel!	The hobbit, a great book in its own right, also serves as a great prequel for anyone that has seen the recently released Lord of the Rings movie and who wants to experience more of Tolken's eclectic fantasy world.  Tolken writing is exceptionally accessible, and the book keeps you in the story until the very end.  A &quot;classic&quot; adventure story, the book also is not lacking in deeper meaning, and raises questions about manipulation, conscience and human (ok, hobbit) nature.  All around, The Hobbit is a good read!	2002-04-12
US	49515022	R29R61W09GFC6M	0345339681	669379389	The Hobbit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book, Great Prequel!	The hobbit, a great book in its own right, also serves as a great prequel for anyone that has seen the recently released Lord of the Rings movie and who wants to experience more of Tolken's eclectic fantasy world.  Tolken writing is exceptionally accessible, and the book keeps you in the story until the very end.  A &quot;classic&quot; adventure story, the book also is not lacking in deeper meaning, and raises questions about manipulation, conscience and human (ok, hobbit) nature.  All around, The Hobbit is a good read!	2002-04-12
US	49515022	R2R8OGZS3XUIM3	0395177111	276015944	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book, Great Prequel!	The hobbit, a great book in its own right, also serves as a great prequel for anyone that has seen the recently released Lord of the Rings movie and who wants to experience more of Tolken's eclectic fantasy world. Tolken writing is exceptionally accessible, and the book keeps you in the story until the very end. A \\"classic\\" adventure story, the book also is not lacking in deeper meaning, and raises questions about manipulation, conscience and human (ok, hobbit) nature. All around, The Hobbit is a good read!	2002-04-12
US	49515022	RGUOQYKPMNPSV	0395177111	669379389	The Hobbit (or There and Back Again)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book, Great Prequel!	The hobbit, a great book in its own right, also serves as a great prequel for anyone that has seen the recently released Lord of the Rings movie and who wants to experience more of Tolken's eclectic fantasy world.  Tolken writing is exceptionally accessible, and the book keeps you in the story until the very end.  A &quot;classic&quot; adventure story, the book also is not lacking in deeper meaning, and raises questions about manipulation, conscience and human (ok, hobbit) nature.  All around, The Hobbit is a good read!	2002-04-12
US	49515022	R1T2ICWG6VZP08	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great Book, Great Prequel!	The hobbit, a great book in its own right, also serves as a great prequel for anyone that has seen the recently released Lord of the Rings movie and who wants to experience more of Tolken's eclectic fantasy world.  Tolken writing is exceptionally accessible, and the book keeps you in the story until the very end.  A \\"classic\\" adventure story, the book also is not lacking in deeper meaning, and raises questions about manipulation, conscience and human (ok, hobbit) nature.  All around, The Hobbit is a good read!	2002-04-12
US	49515022	R2XVFZ9XRW6EZQ	0671035835	697485871	Ghost Dance (Star Trek Voyager, No 20, Dark Matters Book Two of Three)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Good Sequel	The second book certainly fulfilled any expectations set by its predecessor.  The writing and plot is moderately good.  The story keeps moving throughout and unlike many books, there are no points at which you wonder what in the world the remaining 150 pages are for.  On the other hand, this book is by no means a cliffhanger.  The book will make little to no sense without the first book, and really resolves no issues on its own.  If you plan to only read one book in the trilogy, the first or third would clearly be a better choice.  The story once again centers around a substance called \\"Dark Matter.\\"  This dark matter, according to the novel, supposedly exists everywhere in a limbo between this galaxy and others.  The series' villain, a renegade from a super-powerful group called the Shepards, has been causing the Romulans to bring this matter into our universe.  The matter, when in contact with living flesh causes irrational behavior.  Janeway and crew, at the request of another Shepard continue on their quest to disinfect planets affected by the dark matter and collect it to prevent further calamity.	2001-06-09
US	49515022	R1CHJRDZN7O88R	0671035827	992426487	Cloak and Dagger (Star Trek Voyager, No 19, Dark Matters Book One of Three)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Top 50%	If you're hoping to be amazed, excited, or to have you beliefs questioned, this is not the book for you.  If, on the other hand, you're looking for a few hours of enjoyable reading with a star trek theme (or you are already beginning to feel nostalgic for Janeway and crew) this book might fit the bill.  Though Golden (author) deals with some rather big issues (like the end of the universe) very little weight is given to them.  This book is of the flavor that perhaps Q summarized best as &quot;Another spatial anomaly, another day at the office.&quot;  While the book is certainly worth reading it creates very little suspense.  Upon finishing the book, you are left with more of an &quot;ok -- I guess that was interesting&quot; feeling than a &quot;I've got to go get the next one in the series&quot; feeling.	2001-05-20
US	49515022	R80KXFGYN2YJX	0812550757	241285325	Speaker for the Dead (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Ender's Return	As a book in it's own right, Speaker for the Dead clearly deserves all five stars.  As a sequel to Ender's Game, however, it both fulfils us and disappoints us.  We know at the end of Ender's Game that Ender regrets his acts towards the buggers and has consequentially written their story to show humanity how wrong they were.  Ironically, we find, the implement of their destruction also will serve as their savior.  Speaker for the Dead does tackle many moral issues: religion vs. truth, multi-species contact &amp; non-interference; however, it is not as &quot;deep&quot; of a book as Ender's game was and I found myself more drawn to it because the relationship that I had formed with Ender in Ender's Game then because of the plot events in this book.  If you've read Ender's Game, I doubt you'll be able to stay away from this book.  If you haven't yet: pick Ender's Game up first.  This book would spoil it for you and Ender's Game is clearly the better of the two!  But have no doubt, after reading Ender's Game, you'll be back!	2001-05-14
US	49515022	R1XIP26WMIUNBQ	0812589041	401439625	Ender's Game	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Phenomenal!	At first look Ender's Game seems to be about the minutia of a child's life: Ender who has some sort of device called a &quot;Monitor&quot; which allows adults to keep track of his every move &amp; protect him.  Then, we turn over the first page.  Ender's Game isn't just a story about children forced to grow up at warp speed.  It isn't just a story about one of these children who stood out among the pack.  Ender's Game is a challenge to those who ignore or discredit the children's ideas because they are children.  We begin to understand Ender, emphasize with ender -- and finally respect ender.  Somewhere, during chapter two or three, I forgot that the subject of the story was a 7 year old boy -- and begin to think of him as a brilliant military strategist.  Beyond this, though, the book raises some even more important philosophical questions about truth and reality (which are not explained until the final pages of the book -- I'll refrain from spoiling it).  Read it slowly, carefully, and deliberately though -- because when you have finished the book, you will wish that you could somehow go back and read it again for the first time!	2001-05-14
US	49515022	R3BUVWTH8KJ1S	0764580485	746851949	Transact-SQL (IDG professional programming)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Ok reference book -- or for beginner	Amo's Transact-SQL can certainly be faulted for the amount of time that it spends trying to describe how to perform somewhat mundane tasks in Enterprise manager and other SQL 7 tools -- great if you have never used SQL Server before, but not particularly useful for programmer or DBA turned programmer trying to learn Transact-SQL.  The books redeeming strength, however, comes from the clarity with which the author is able to deal with more advanced concepts such as cursors.  His explanation makes the concept very accessible to a beginner.  The books excellent index allows it to serve well as a reference book.  All things considered, this is not the book to buy if a large portion of you work is with a database; but for a developer or DBA needing to write a little Transact-SQL and not wanting to spend three-weeks reading a book like Vieira's SQL Server Programming it could serve as a good intro book and/or quick reference.	2001-05-09
US	49515022	R1XPHC0JI48SVV	1861003382	15634326	Beginning Active Server Pages 3.0	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good Beginning Book	We generally buy this book (and previously Beginning Active Server Pages 2.0) for any new programmers starting on an ASP project.  We have used it to train interns and veteran programmers-turned-web-developers alike and both have commented on it's excellent writing and thorough treatment of all relevant topics.  The only problem that I have with the book is that some of the code samples tend cause the new developers to think that they should write code for larger projects similarly -- which could be quite a mess.  Over all and as a reference, its great.  But my suggestion for next time around: improve the code samples!	2001-05-09
US	49515022	R21FARQIH2HSPY	0671035843	671617041	Shadow of Heaven (Star Trek Voyager, No 21, Dark Matters Book Three of Three)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Premise, Good Plot, Good Writing!	While it's certainly not the best Star Trek book I have ever read, it is certainly in the to fifty percent.  One warning, however, the book will take quite a while to make sense if you have not yet read the other two proceeding it in the series (kind of like watching the second half of an episode, minus the montage at the beginning that summarizes the first part).  Other than that, however, it is a good read -- by itself, or as the final book in the series.	2001-05-09
US	49515022	R24V2SA4QPUDPB	0735606242	817676499	Active Directory Services for Microsoft Windows 2000 Technical Reference (It-Microsoft Technical Reference)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Good read, Pour reference	While the author is certainly very knowledgeable with the subject matter he tends to forget from time to time that we, the readers, may not be.  I purchased this book right around the time that Windows 2000 was coming out -- before being familiar with active directory, and before the hundreds (if not thousands) of TechNet articles came out explaining the directory in detail -- and I found the book somewhat lacking in it's explanation.  I use it occasionally as a reference book, however, the Index and style of writing does not lend it to being a quick reference (you usually have to read two or three pages to get to the information you desired).  I recommend it, perhaps as a supplement to, or with supplement from the articles on Microsoft's TechNet.  It is, however, very well written and  enjoyable book to read!	2001-05-09
US	49515022	R2NV9EDPONORMY	0786303158	370812218	Solution Selling: Creating Buyers in Difficult Selling Markets	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Better Sales Practices	Bosworth sells us all on solution selling.  He teaches us how to sell everything from shoes to software.  IBM recommends this book as the definitive guide to their sales strategy.  Bosworth provides numerous examples, case studies, and most importantly he explains and analyzes each of them.  But perhaps the best example of solution selling is the book itself -- it solution-sells the concept of solution selling, from catching our attention, demonstrating that a problem exists, asking us questions, and finally prescribing a solution: solution selling.  A must read for anyone in sales or business in general	2001-04-18
US	49515022	R3JAG4J7BIRZ2H	1861002319	979825435	Professional SQL Server 7.0 Programming	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Great SQL Reference Book	Professional SQL Programming is an excellent reference book for those developing with SQL 7.0 or 2000 Beta!  Vieira really knows his stuff &amp; how to explain it too!  The book is organized well enough that it is easy  to use as a quick reference -- but it also provides enough information when  you need to know more than just syntax.  It reads well too ...	2000-06-12
