US	49537626	R2RLGT079LVDDY	1872292046	737975454	The Eros of Repentance: Four Talks on the Theological Basis of Athonite Monasticism (Praxis Pocketbooks)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	holy desire	This little gem is focuses upon the theme of desire, or Eros, in the spiritual life. Far from seeing eros as something sinful to be supressed, the author reveals that the longing of sexual love is only one aspect of erotic love. Eors for God is that yearning which takes the lover beyond ethics. &quot;The saints possessing divine eros have also been deified. All the saints live by the saying of Saint Ignatius the God bearer: 'My eros has been crucified.' The relation of the saints to God is erotic, i.e., desiring or yearning, not simply ethical. The grace of the deification shines in their faces, and is revealed in their bodies which smell sweetly, give forth myrrh, remain uncorrupted, and work miracles. The Orthodox Church is the place and fellowship of deification&quot;  <br /> The Eros of Repentance is a tiny book with a needed message. Other books of interest may include: A Different Christianity, by Robin Amis; The Roots of Christian Mysticism, by Olivier Clement; The Mysitcal Theology of the Eastern Church, by Vladimir Lossky; The Inner Kingdom, by Bishop KALLISTOS Ware; Exploring the Inner Universe, by Roman Braga. Enjoy!	2000-11-04
US	49537626	RMQTW3A1DK9BH	096426109X	772113641	Any Friend of God's Is a Friend of Mine: A Biblical and Historical Explanation of the Catholic Doctrine of the Communion of Saints	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a great introduction	Madrid provides a needed service with this book.  He addresses the following subjects: 1) What is the Communion of Saints? 2)Classical Protestant Objections 3)&quot;Me nad Jesus&quot; Christianity Isn't Biblical 4)The &quot;One Mediator&quot; Argument and Other Objections 5)Praying for the Souls in Purgatory 6)The Testamony of the Early Church 7)The Veneration of Relics 8)Statues and Images 9)Does Honoring Mary and the Saints Offend God? 10)Epilogue 11)Appendix: Council of Trent Decree Concerning the Invocation, Veneration, and Relics of Saints and Sacred Images <br /> This book has been given to many Protestant friends and has clarified a great deal for them.  It is also very useful for Eastern Orthodox Christians, with the exception of the chapter on purgatory (Orthodox have a different understanding of the matter).<br /> Other books of interest may include: Discovering the Rich Heritage of Orthodoxy, by Bell;  Lossky's, Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church; The Experience of God, by Staniloae; The Encyclopedia of Early Christianity, ed. Ferguson. For a detailed account of Icons and their usage see, The Resurrection and the Icon, by Quenot. Enjoy!	2000-10-29
US	49537626	R23G4Q1XT59MWP	0881410861	462872072	The Challenge of Our Past: Studies in Orthodox Canon Law and Church History	Books	5	4	4	N	N	a great anthology	Professor Erickson does us a favor in reminding us that canon law is not supposed to be legalistic. That may sound like an oxymoron, but it is true nonetheless.  Using the canons as if they were self-interpreting is dangerous since it takes away the spirit of the rule, which is to bring us into a life-giving union with God in Christ Jesus. Rather, canons are to be applied with the context of their origin in mind, one which is often anti-legalistic!<br /> Other essays deal with the penitential discipline in the Orthodox Church, divorce and remarriage, the priesthood in patristic teaching, eucharist and ministry in ecumenical dialogue, collegiality and primacy in Orthodox ecclesiology, the &quot;autocephalous Church&quot;, problems of sacramental economy, leavened and unleavened: some theological implications of 1054, filioque and the fathers at the council of Florence, Index.<br /> This is an outstanding collection, based upon years of teaching at St. Vladimir's Seminary in New York.  Enjoy!	2000-10-27
US	49537626	R3U3V5VWG177U9	0198266685	477114955	The Origins of the Christian Mystical Tradition: From Plato to Denys	Books	5	21	21	N	N	helps make connections otherwise forgotten these days	Prof. Louth dicusses the origins of Christian theology, especially the &quot;mystical&quot; theology.  He doesn't limit himself to the latin west, thankfully, but rather embraces the eastern perspective as well. He works through Plato, Philo, Plotinus, Origen, Nicene Orthodoxy (Athanasius and Gregory of Nyssa), the monastic contrabution (Evagrius of Pontus, the Marcian homilies, and Diadochus of Photice), Augustine (of course), Denys the Areopagite, Patristic Mysticism and Joh of the Cross (divine darkness and the Dark Night), the mystical life and the mystical body (Platonism and mysticism, the communion of saints).<br /> Like his other works, this is exhaustive and articulate. A strong dose of the texts themselves, in translation, helps us meet the minds of these influential thinkers at firsthand (almost).<br /> I would strongly recommend the works of Vladimir Lossky in this regard, especially his &quot;Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church&quot;.  There are many great books on this subject, but this is a great place to start! Enjoy!	2000-10-27
US	49537626	R3NX00ZKC5191	0966231694	148316576	Socrates in New York	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Just wonderful!	This book is so fun to read that you don't realize that your brain is being twisted into proper shape. It's like going to a mental chiropractor.<br /> Other books of interest may include: &quot;Between Heaven and Hell&quot; by Peter Kreeft. All of Kreeft's books are engaging in style and hearty in substance.  To see the interaction between Christianity and classical culture, see &quot;Christianity and Classical Culture&quot; by Jaraslov Pelikan.  Mortimer Adler's books are also helpful in discussing how to think about God, Life, Truth, etc. A short little book &quot;Does God Exist?&quot; by Moody is written in the trialogue style and is great at rejecting the silly, yet popular, arguments against God and gives the reader much to think about.  In a more Christian line, the works of C.S. Lewis are great, and the classic by Bishop Kallistos Ware, &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot; is a great place to start if your interested in historic Christianity. &quot;The Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church&quot; by Vladimir Lossky will certainly reshape the old brain, too!  Please check some of these out. Enjoy!	2000-10-25
US	49537626	R3C15OYQR74Z6X	0892832193	211762289	Making Sense Out of Suffering	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Helpful at just the right time.	This is one of those books that lives up to its title.  Every so often something derails our lives and we seek to make sense of the scattered pieces. This book helps do that.  I would suggest reading C.S. Lewis' &quot;A Grief Observed&quot; for an amazingly honest look at the topic from the inside.  Some of the Psalms are very relevant as well.	2000-10-20
US	49537626	R3CJT53ITPJ6Z9	0553274864	453295478	A Grief Observed	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Very honest, very helpful	Like the other reviewers have noted, here Lewis is at his best when he's at his worst, so to speak, since he is able to turn his sharp, honest, and descriptive mind upon himself to reveal the inner tensions, doubts, and hopes that linger around us when we are in sorrow over loss.  Truly a grief observed. The afterward is very well done and fits appropriately with the book.	2000-10-20
US	49537626	R2OHPUIZTO4OTE	0898705142	572790021	God's Human Face: The Christ-Icon	Books	5	22	23	N	N	One of the best intros on the subject	Schonborn does a masterful job in presenting the Trinitarian and Christological foundations of iconography. Actually, I use this book mostly for the Christological sections. It is VERY well done! All the major and minor aspects of Christology are examined and continually related to the role and meaning of the Incarnation and, thus, the meaning and role of icons. A few well chosen color icons are in the book.<br /> This work is highly recommended. I wish I could buy it for you!	2000-10-13
US	49537626	R2MWXEOL0F5B7H	1881316033	862606408	History of the First Council of Nice: A World's Christian Convention A.D. 325 With a Life of Constantine	Books	1	34	48	N	N	a bit unbalanced	Dudley takes his place along with the other historians (some very capable) who seem to criticise the Church for what took place at Nicea as the usurpation of power by Constantine. Obviously there is an element of this at Nicea, but to claim, among other things, that Christians were not already and from the beginning worship and celebrating the Eucharist on Sunday and that it took the emperor to settle it is a stretch. Argue if you want, but at least read a few other books that are not so biased. If you think that the Church became something radically different after Nicea, you have some learning to do. The Orthodox tradition only makes sense, however, if you believe that some theological opinions are more faithful to the apostolic tradition than others. In other words, &quot;rainbow theology&quot; is not how the early Church functioned. If she did, then the Lord's apostles were in extreme delusion, for they too discerned light from darkness in aspects that were not strictly moral (i.e. gnostic trends, although many false teachings lead to immorality). <br /> I recommend Davis' &quot;The First Seven Ecumenical Councils&quot; and Allison's &quot;The Cruelity of Heresy&quot; to start with (and no, they are not &quot;let's dump on the heretics&quot; sort of books). Others include &quot;God For Us&quot; by LaCugna, &quot;Jesus as God&quot; by Harris, &quot;Christology&quot; and &quot;THe Tripersonal God&quot; by O'Collins.<br />If you're interested in the cannon of scripture, check out Metzger's &quot;The Canon of the New Testament: It's Origin, Development, and Significance&quot;.	2000-10-13
US	49537626	R30OQ065SSNW70	0814656161	838842996	The First Seven Ecumenical Councils (325-787): Their History and Theology (Theology and Life Series 21)	Books	5	16	20	N	N	worth 10 stars!	While not many scholars have pulled this sort of thing off well, Davis does it with amazing detail (though not cumbersome) and lucid style. It is welcome to have such a work in English. I recommend that the reader would see my review of Kelly's &quot;Early Christian Doctrines&quot; for a list of other works of relevance, especially Allison's &quot;The Cruelty of Heresy&quot;. Enjoy!	2000-10-07
US	49537626	R2F1D81JZDCR8T	0830818898	690595024	Reclaiming the Great Tradition: Evangelicals, Catholics & Orthodox in Dialogue	Books	5	12	12	N	N	worth the time	Chapter  two is an excellent overview of ecumenism in the past and where it is leading today by Fr. Neuhaus.  Chapter four, by that &quot;recent&quot; convert (!) Fr. Patrick Reardon, deals beautifully with the trinitarian theology of the east, as well as a strong dose of proper apophaticism. Chapter five, by Bishop Kallistos Ware, deals further with the trinitarian nature of Christianity. The other essays, six in all, are well worth reading as well. Each essay is followed by a response which is either critical or supportive- usually both.  Carl Braaten, a Lutheran scholar, provides a summary that is quite insightful and useful.<br />I had written a review a few weeks ago that was not accepted. This is the second attempt, so I toned it down. This is a book which all Christians can benefit from. As an Orthodox, I flatly reject the circle-the-wagon mentality of some who say that this book is anti-Orthodox.  It is a conference of thinkers and theologians and obviously not an Ecumenical council in the true sense; just dialogue. No one compromised anything. See for yourself.	2000-10-07
US	49537626	R15RWDFAHTCPA9	006064334X	520201023	Early Christian Doctrines: Revised Edition	Books	5	18	21	N	N	essential reading	Kelly presents a masterful summary of Church theology and history. This is a great price for the content. If you have even the slightest interest in the early Church, this book will serve to both satisfy your initial curiosities and spark new ones.<br /> Other books of interst include Jaroslav Pelikan's &quot;The Emergence of the Catholic Tradition (100-600)&quot; and &quot;Christianity and Classical Culture&quot;, both of which are technical. Georges Florovsky's works, most of which are out of print, are essential to understanding the Eastern Orthodox patristic tradition. &quot;Aspects of Church History&quot; by G.Florovsky is excellent, although the scope of the work isn't comparable to Kelly's. Meyendorff's &quot;Christ in Eastern Christian Thought&quot; is remarkable in depth, detail, and insight. Leo Donald Davis' &quot;The First Seven Ecumenical Councils (325-787)&quot; is the best in English on the subject of the coucils.  Of course, the four volume &quot;Patrology&quot;, by Johannes Quasten, is great for beginners and experts (so experts tell me!). A popular account of heresy in the early Church is C. FitzSimons Allison's &quot;The Cruelty of Heresy: An Affirmation of Christian Orthodoxy&quot;. &quot;Beginning to Read the Fathers&quot; by Ramsey is also organized and useful. Enjoy!	2000-10-07
US	49537626	RZ8IWFLFDWMT6	0788503456	396274511	Energies of the Spirit: Trinitarian Models in Eastern Orthodox and Western Theology (AAR Academy Series)	Books	5	19	20	N	N	A unique work which is balanced and very well done	I have been interested in the Christian experience and understanding of  God for many years now, and this is the best book I have found concerning  the differences in trinitarian theology between Eastern Orthodox and  Western Christians(both Roman and Protestant).  I know that my statement is  flawed if it's taken to mean that books alone (sola libre!), and not  prayer, eucharist, love, and faith, etc, are needed to encounter the  Trinity, so don't take it that way. But on an intellectual level, surely  this book helps in may ways. I'll quote the jacket:<br />  &quot;This book  examines twentieth century theological commentators (Barth, Rahner, Lossky,  Florovsky) on the problem of the doctrine of the energies of God. Counter  to existing trends in western theology, the author gives a positive  evaluation of this doctrine and seeks common ground between the eastern  idea of essence and energies and the western idea of the inner and economic  Trinity. Though written from a clearly western perspective, the book argues  the coherence of the eastern position, and that underlying both eastern and  western positions is a common intention to say that the encounter with God  is real, and that the primary ontological distinction is between God and  creation.&quot;   <br /> This is worth the time to read over and over.  Other  books of interest will include reading the primary sources for Reid's  critique. Brath's &quot;Church Dogmatics&quot;, Rahner's &quot;The  Trinity&quot;, Lossky's &quot;Mystical Theology of the Eastern  Church&quot;, &quot;The Vision of God&quot;, &quot;In the Image and  Likeness of God&quot;, and &quot;Orthodox Theology&quot;. All of  Florovsky's works are foundational, but most, if not all, are out of print.  The works of Saint Gregory Palamas are available in translation and  commentary in many forms. I have used Meyendorff's two wroks, &quot;Saint  Gregory Palamas and Orthodox Spirituality&quot; and &quot;A Study of  Gregory Palamas&quot;.<br /> Some other books to check out are &quot;The  Mystery of the Trinity&quot; by Boris Bobrinskoy, Studer's &quot;Trinity  and Incarnation&quot;, LaCugna's &quot;God For Us&quot;, O'Collins'  &quot;The Tripersonal God&quot;, and Dimitru Staniloae's &quot;The  Experience of God&quot;. Enjoy!	2000-09-15
US	49537626	R7SLCQUIF1O8D	0881410055	123805210	Women and the Priesthood	Books	5	9	12	N	N	New edition is relevant, scholarly, and respectful of all.	The welcome second edition of Women and the Priesthood has been of great  help in beginning to articulate an Orthodox response to the question of  bishops and priestesses in the Church. What follows is taken from the  jacket of the text:<br />    &quot;More than fifteen years have passed since  the original publication of Women and the Priesthood. This new edition  presents us with essays of the authors who are no longer with us, Father  Alexander Schmemann and Nicholas Afanasiev, and Prof. Georges Barrois,  together with the editor's reflection at that time. The living contributors  to the first edition have all written new essays . An article by Dr. Nonna  Verna Harrison is also now included.<br />     &quot;The authors search for  explinations and resons why the Orthodox Church has never in its history  ordained women to serve as bishops and priests. All agree that the Church  had women deacons, and that careful consideration must be given to this  office as it existed in the past and as it may once again exist in the  Orthodox Church.<br />     &quot;No author in the present volume calls for the  ordination of women as bishops and priests. All authors agree, however,  that the greatest care must be exercised in dealing with this complicated  and delicate issue. The Orthodox Church has no infallible magisterium.  Church theologians and leaders may be wrong. The Holy Spirit acts within  the whole body of believers bringing to remembrance what Christ teaches and  guiding the faithful into all truth. If but one member of the Church is  inspired to argue from the Bible and Church Tradition that certain women  may be qualified to serve as bishops and priests, he or she must be heard  with dignity and respect. Those who believe that only certain believing men  are qualified for these ordained ministries must be heard in the same  manner and spirit. Whatever one thinks of the thoughts of the contributors,  this new edition of Women and the Priesthood serves as a model for the  debate among Orthodox.&quot;<br />Contributors include Father Thomas Hopko and  Bishop Kallistos Ware.<br /> Other books of interest may include two by  Manfred Hauke, &quot;God or Goddess?&quot; and &quot;Women in the  Priesthood?&quot;; the latter being perhaps the most thorough treatment of  the subject. &quot;Deaconesses&quot;, by Martimort is very detailed as  well.  &quot;Women and the Priesthood&quot; by von Hildebrand and Kreeft is  short but interesting.  Louis Bouyer's &quot;Women in the Church&quot; is  older, but not dated. It includes the excellent esaay on the subject by  C.S. Lewis, which is also found in Lewis' &quot;God in the Dock&quot;.  &quot;The Church and Women: A Compendium&quot; which includes von  Balthasar, Ratzinger, Kasper, Hauke, Fessio, and many more. This book is  great! Concerning feminism in general in relation to Christianity,  &quot;Speaking the Christian God&quot;, ed. Alvin Kimel, Jr. is a great  place to start and end. Hopko has an excellent article in it. For a  critique of radical feminism in the Roman Catholic Church, Donna Steichen's  &quot;Ungodly Rage&quot; is both informative and predictive of what the  real agenda is behind much of &quot;Christian&quot; femenism, not to  discredit genuine feminism which does not try to make all genders neuter.	2000-09-02
US	49537626	R227FB1EZDJDH5	0802808689	694218053	God in the Dock: Essays on Theology and Ethics	Books	5	23	26	N	N	great the first time and better the second (or twentieth!)	Few authors become more relevant as time passes. Lewis, who died in 1963, is more relevant now than ever before.  This collection of 38 essays and  letters is not only enjoyable to read over and over since Lewis is a master  at prose and image, it is food for your mind and soul, helping us to see  reality more clearly. His sharp intellect and readable style help show the  results of various codes of ethics, the joy of reading old books, the  ultimate meaning of Christ, the logic of miracles, the logic of monothiesm,  his doubts about animal experimentation, the morality of punishment, the  nature happiness, and much more. Since each essay stands on its own, this  is a convenient read for those who don't want to read a whole book or want  something to ponder throughout the day. <br />     Essays are: PART I 1)Evil  and God 2)Miracles 3)Dogma and the Universe 4)Answers to Questions on  Christianity 5)Myth Became Fact 6)'Horrid Red Things' 7)Religion and  Science 8)The Laws of Nature 9)The Grand Miracle 10)Christian Apologetics  11)Work and Prayer 12)Man or Rabbit? 13)On the Transmission of Christianity  14)'Miserable Offenders' 15)The Founding of the Oxford Socratic Club  16)Religion without Dogma? 17)Some Thoughts 18)'The Trouble with X...'  19)What Are We to Make of Jesus Christ? 20)The Pains of Animals 21)Is  Theism Important? 22)Rejoinder to Dr Pittenger 23)Must our Image of God Go?   <br />PART II 1)Dangers of National Repentance 2)Two Ways with the Self  3)Meditation on the Third Commandment 4)On the Reading of Old Books 5)Two  Lectures 6)Meditation in a Toolshed 7)Scraps    8)The Decline of Religion  9)Vivisection 10)Modern Translations of the Bible 11)Priestesses in the  Church? 12)God in the Dock? 13)Behind the Scenes 14)Revival or Decay?  15)Before We Can Communicate 16)Cross-Examination<br />PART III 1)'Bulverism'  2)First and Second Things 3)The Sermon and the Lunch 4)The Humanitarian  Theory of Punishment 5)Xmas and Christmas 6)What Christmas Means to Me7)Delinquints in the Snow 8)Is Progress Possible? 9)We Have No 'Right to  Happiness'<br />Part IV Letters	2000-08-31
US	49537626	R2XHY23MS29ATK	0881411965	208921348	Witnesses for Christ: Orthodox Christian Neomartyrs of the Ottoman Period, 1437-1860	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Lives of those who take Christ seriously.	This is a very moving book. My review is simply from the jacket.<br /> This  study is the culmination of two decades of research on Orthodox Christian  Neomartyrs under the Ottoman Turks. Father Vaporis has compiled the life  stories of almost two hundred faithful men and women who were by and large  of humble station, possessing little or no formal education, yet gave their  lives, or witnessed, for Christ...It also contains a number of accounts of  Muslims who converted to Orthodox Christianity and suffered a martyr's  death becasue they refused to return to Islam.<br /> This, however, is not  simply a collection of hagiographic stories. Here, the lives are retold in  a fluid, easy-to-read manner, and set in an historical context to make them  more accessible to the reader. Also of great interest are the many  translations of the dialogue between the Neomartyrs and the Ottoman judges  (kadi), during the three interrogations that were mandated by Islamic law.  These records provide fascinating information on mutual perceptions and the  clash between Orthodox and Islamic cultures, illustrating how the Ottomans  bcame decreasingly tolerant of Orthodox Christians as their empire  declined.<br /> While of great historical interest, this collection of  accounts of Orthodox Neomartyrs, who had to choose between conversion to  Islam and painful torture and death, will no doubt inspire many readers in  their own daily lives.  Includes 16 full-color icon plates.<br /> Rev. Dr.  Nomikos Michael Vaporis was an historian of Byzantine history and Modern  Greek Hellenism, as well as the former Dean of Hellenic College/Holy Cross  School of Theology, and Director of Holy Cross Orthodox Press.<br /> Other  books of interest may include: Pearl of Great Price, the Life and Martyrdom  of Mother Maria Skobtsova 1891-1945 by Sergei Hackel; Exploring the Inner  Universe, by Roman Braga.	2000-08-31
US	49537626	R3MX76BNOZVEON	0840783914	432215923	The Orthodox Study Bible: New Testament and Psalms	Books	3	8	13	N	N	a good place to start, but not THE Orthodox guide to Bible	I applaud the efforts of those who contributed to the creation of this  study.  There are many helpful notes, introductions, and topical studies  that elucidate themes central, or at least unique, to Eastern Orthodoxy. In  particular I found helpful the notes in the Epistle to the Romans. At the  same time, I was very disappointed to find that in many places the notes  were quite dumbed-down.  To make it worse, in the section of morning and  evening prayers, which, by the way, are very handy, there is no mention of  Mary!!  This has lead me to conclude two things. Firstly, this production  is intended to convinve Portestants that we Orthodox do indeed love the  Scriptures and it is a tool to draw them into our fold (which isn't a bad  thing!).  Secondly, the claim that it is THE Orthodox Study Bible leaves a  sour taste in my mouth.  Perhaps I'm a nit-pick, but to neglect the Mother  of God in the prayers is wrong when it's touted as THE OSB. Perhaps in its  second printing it could be modified to say AN OSB.<br />      Although there  are many differences between the Orthodox and the Catholics which I in no  way dismiss as superficial, I still find the Jerusalem Bible's notes  helpful.  The Lutheran Church Missouri Synod, my former home, has published  through Concordia Publishing a helpful study Bible which an Orthodox could  read with profit, although there will be obvious differences in parts  (i.e., Romans and James).  I recommend these titles since they are more  scholarly than the OSB in most respects. Nonetheless, everything they say  cannot be endorsed as Orthodox and, depending on the subject in question,  caution must me used.	2000-08-26
US	49537626	R1BMZKA5EWBC25	0937032999	85715678	Discovering the Rich Heritage of Orthodoxy	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Great introduction for Protestants!	Bell does an excellent job in presenting the ancient Tradition.  A former  Protestant himself, Bell takes up the following issues with honesty and  faithfulness:1)The True Church? 2)Worship in the Church 3)What About Mary?  4)Saints Alive! 5)The Physical Side of Spirituality 6)The Eucharist  7)Scripture and Tradition 8)The Path of Spirituality.  He does this in the  context of his own search.  This is very strongly recommended for any  Prostestant who is interested (or fighting against) the Church since the  author is very winsome.<br />If you want something more &quot;in your  face&quot; you may want to check out Frank Schaeffer's &quot;Dancing  Alone&quot;.  Bishop Kallistos Ware's &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot; is very  readable, but it doesn't interact with Protestant theology in the same way  as Bell since it is meant more for Orthodox. If you want to chew on  something for a while or if your friend is more critical and needs some  strong documentation, I would always go with &quot;Common Ground: An  Introduction to Eastern Christianity&quot; by Jordan Bajis. Enjoy!	2000-08-26
US	49537626	R1VCAJHMFIP9T1	0300062559	960369253	Christianity and Classical Culture: The Metamorphosis of Natural Theology in the Christian Encounter with Hellenism (Gifford Lectures Series)	Books	5	24	36	N	N	The Christianization of Hellenism	This is truly a gem in the field of Cappadocian studies.<br />  Contents  include: PART ONE: Natural Theology as Apologetics 1)Classical Culture and  Christian Theology 2)Natural Theology as Apologetics 3)The Language of  Negation 4)God and the Ways of Knowing 5)The Many and the One 6)THe  Universe as Cosmos 7)Space, Time, and Deity 8)The Image of God 9)The Source  of All Good 10)From Tyche to Telos<br />PART TWO: Natural Theology as  Presupposition 11)Christian Theology and Classical Culture 12)Natural  Theology as Presupposition 13)The Lexicon of Transcendence 14)Faith as the  Fulfillment of Reason 15)The One and the Three 16)Cosmos as Contingent  Creation 17)The Economy of Salvation 18)The Metamorphosis of Human Nature  19)The Worship Offered by Rational Creatures 20)The Life of the Aeon to  Come<br />Glossary of Greek Technical Terms From Sources Ancient and  Modern<br />Biblography<br />Index<br />Other books of interest may include: The  Works of Ss. Basil the Great, Gregory Nyssa, Gregory Nazianzus.  These may  be found in many series.  &quot;Clement's use of Aristotle&quot; by  Elizabeth Clark; &quot;The Theology of the Early Greek Philosophers&quot;  by Jaeger; Meijering's &quot;Othodoxy and Platonism in Athanasius:  Synthesis or Antithesis?&quot;; Lossky's &quot;Mystical Theology of the  Eastern Church&quot; and &quot;In the Image and Likeness of God&quot;;  Stead's &quot;Philosophy in Christian Antiquity&quot;; &quot;The  Hellenic-Christian Philosophical Tradition&quot; by Cavarnos; Georges  Florovsky's &quot;Aspects of Church History&quot; and The Eastern Fathers  of the Fourth Century&quot;; &quot;The Cappadocians&quot; by Anthony  Meredith; &quot;The Fathers Speak&quot; ed. Georges Barrios. Enjoy!	2000-08-26
US	49537626	R27SHEE0CD4641	0897501136	564606941	Classical Kata of Okinawan Karate (Japanese Arts)	Books	2	10	11	N	N	Classical Kim?	While I am by no means a master of Okinawan Karate, I have studied Shorin  ryu for many years under Seikichi Iha, an Okinawan master of some renown  who is a leading student of Shinpan Gusukuma and Chosin Chibana, and I have  to say that the physics behind these katas seems quite lacking. As well,  they are not traditional. Nonetheless, the history behind the katas and the  bios of the masters is helpful.  I suppose that I must say that trying to  learn a kata from a book is stupid since the transitions between moves are  just as or more important than &quot;how you got there&quot;. (Regarding  this book, I don't want to get there.) <br />For another good history book,  see Mark Bishop's &quot;Okinawan Karate&quot;.  That book doesn't try to  teach you kata, yet it does give some good ideas about application which a  seasoned practitioner could use (which is true of mccarthy's book, too).   After sounding like a jerk, I am still happy that at least the attempt was  made which, as another reviewer wrote, inspired many people to join a dojo  or club.	2000-08-26
US	49537626	R2RSUU62PKDP3C	0198755023	854259094	Christology: A Biblical, Historical, and Systematic Study of Jesus Christ	Books	5	14	18	N	N	The vitality of orthodox Christology	O'Collins, Professor of Systematic and Fundamental Theology at the  Gregorian University in Rome, has written yet another timely book on this  central aspect of our faith.  As C.C. Newman writes on the back  cover:&quot;O'Collins has produced a Christological accounting that is  breathtaking in scope...[He] successfully balances the academic search for  truth with practical concerns for justice and equality, all the while  preserving the center of liturgical celebration...this book is steeped in,  though not encumbered by, a thorough knowledge of all the problematic  epistemological and hermeneutical issues.  Carefully and lucidly  written...this is mature book from a seasoned scholar on an important  subject.&quot;<br />Contents include: 1:Some Major Challenges 2:The Background  3:The Human History  4:The Resurrection 5:The Son of God 6:Lord, Savior,  God, and Spirit 7:To the First Council of Constantinople 8:Ephesus,  Chalcedon, and Beyond 9:Medieval and Modern Christology 10:Divine and Human  11:Faith, Holiness, and Virgin Conception 12:Redeemer 13:Universal Redeemer  14:The Possibilities of Presence  Bibliography, Index of Names, Biblical  Index.<br />  Other books of interest include: Trinity and Incarnation by  Basil Studer, Incarnation-Myth or Fact? by Oskar Skarsaune, An Introduction  to New Testament Christology by Raymond Brown, The Mystery of the Trinity  by Boris Bobrinskoy, Trinitarian Theology East and West by Meyendorff and  Fahey, The Gospel Image of Christ by Veselin Kesich. Enjoy!	2000-08-19
US	49537626	R7AKSFZXH0MWD	0567292630	633583134	The Eucharist Makes the Church	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Outstanding!	I would give this book to all my friends if I wasn't so poor.  Maybe I'll  sell my computer to do so...Really, though, McPartlan has done his homework  and does a supurb job in presenting the Eucharistic theology of two  respected theologians, one Roman Catholic (de Lubac), the other Eastern  Orthodox (Zizioulas), showing how it is the Eucharist which is celebrated  in communion with a bishop which constitutes the Church.  <br />      The book  is divided into three parts. First, de Lubac is presented, covering a wide  range of topics which include the nature of personhood, the neopatristic  synthesis, nature and supernatural, St.Aquinas and space and time,  Mysticism and Eucharist, the Chacedonian shift, universal concrete and  corporate personality, the Eucharist makes the Church, the Church makes the  Eucharist, bishop as High Priest, the universal and the particular Church,  Jean Jaques von Allmen and Nicolas Afanassieff.<br />       Part two concerns  Zizioulas's works which cover most of the same themes found in part one,  but from a slightly different angle.  It also contains a helpful overview  of Russian theologians such as Georges Florovsky, Vladimir Lossky, and  Nicolas Afanassieff.<br />      Part three puts de Lubac and Zizioulas in  diologue. Topics include Beginning and End, Christ and the Spirit, History  and Eschatolgy, The Beating Heart of the Church, Baptism Penance and the  Eucharist, Blocks and Strings and Spiders Webs. People of God and Body of  Christ.<br />      The conclusion covers The Church and the World.  Complementary Critique, and Catholicity.<br />      For further reading there  is an exhaustive bibliography for both theologians and a general one which  is very, very helpful.<br />      This book is so needed in this age of often  misguided ecumenism which often neglects the meaning and role of the  Eucharist as the Heart of the Church's life.  Please look at Zizioulas'  other books, especially &quot;Being as Communion&quot;.	2000-08-19
US	49537626	R3JH3Y7FX4FC2X	0881412120	637208323	Living Orthodoxy: In the Modern World : Orthodox Christianity & Society	Books	5	6	6	N	N	An outstanding collection concerning contemporary issues.	We should thank St. Vladimir's Seminary Press for this one. This book will  help dispel the myth that the Eastern Orthodox Church needs to be dusted  off for practical use in modern society.  Each chapter stands on its own,  although they all relate to Orthodoxy and modern society. Twelve  distinguished lay and ordained Orthodox writers are assembled here.  Topics  include: 1)The Orthodox Vision of Wholeness, by Gillian Crow. 2)Living in  the Future, by Bishop Basil of Sergievo. 3)The Eschata in Our Daily Life,  by Metropolitan Athanasios of Hercegovina.          4)Orthodox Tradition  and Family Life, by Sister Magdalen. 5)Lent and the Consumer Society, by  Bishop Kallistos (Ware) of Diokleia. 6)Death and Bereavement, by Bishop  Anthony (Bloom) of Sourozh. 7)An Orthodox Approach to Bioethics, by Prof.  H. Tristram Engelhardt Jr. 8)Orthodoxy and Modern Depth Psychology, by Dr.  Jamie Moran. 9)Orthodoxy and Art, by Dr. Andrew Louth. 10)Man the Priest of  Creation: A Response to the Ecological Problem, by Metropolitan John  (Zizioulas) of Pergamon. 11)The Holy Trinity, the Church and Politics in a  Secular World, by Costa Carras. 12)The Prophetic Role of Orthodoxy in  Contemporary Culture, by Dr. Andrew Wlaker.  Envoi: The Laos of God, by  Metropolitan Anthony. Notes.<br />       If you are interested in Orthodxy and  Culture, you'll love this book!  In fact, many of the chapters are so  illuminating that I'd buy the book just for one or two of them. Enjoy!	2000-08-19
US	49537626	R1H960ULL9WKUX	0872203433	900533588	Does God Exist?: A Dialogue	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Well, does He?	I agree with those who have reviewed this book positively.  In a short book (91 pages of trialogue) Moody covers the basics in an engaging manner.   Too often this issue is clouded over by easy arguments or jargon too  technical for the average person.  Since it is written as a discussion  between three college students, it goes quickly and smoothly allowing the  mind to move easily from each position.  This book is thought out and is  certainly recommended for people who are just getting into the subject. The  main point of the book is to expose the reader to what other thinkers have  thought concerning the perennial question.  At the end of the book, Sophia  says:<br />    &quot;...No one is suggesting that you throw away the tools of  critical reasoning.  But we have spent some time talking about the  arguments for God's existence.  We haven't proved that he exists, but we  have learned why the arguments are at least plausible to those who are  inclined by their personal religious experince to believe in God. We also  have shown that belief in God isn't bizarre or delusional.  We come back to  tolerance again.  If God can give us the space to form a rational belief in  him without compulsion, maybe we can learn to do the same toward each  other.&quot;       <br />       Other books of interest may include:  The  Brothers Karamazov by Fydor Dostoyevsky, C.S.Lewis's A Grief Observed and  Miracles (anything by him is enlightening), Philosophy of Religion ed.  Brian Davies, The Psalms, and The Othodox Way by Bishop Kallistos.	2000-08-18
US	49537626	RN51L0OZTT4T0	0916586189	613318091	Trinitarian Theology East and West: St. Thomas Aquinas-St. Gregory Palamas (Patriarch Athenagoras memorial lectures)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a gem in the field of theology	Although this is a thin booklet, only 43 pages, it is to the point,  scholarly, and balanced.  If you're looking for a dual between to great  theologians, this isn't it.  Both Fahey and Meyendorff are faithful to  their respective traditions without slinging theological mud. To give you  an idea of its contents, I'll quote Maximos Aghiorgoussis' forward:  &quot;Our theme deals with ecumenical problems between East and West. Faith  in the Holy Trinity is both the main mark of Christianity and the main  problem in the relations between Eastern and Western Christendom.  The  Eastern and Western approaches to the doctrine of the Trinity go back to  the patristic period. The entire patristic tradition of the East has a  &quot;personalistic&quot; approach...whereas in the West St. Augustine  authored the so-called &quot;psychological&quot; approach.  This difference  in approach is one of the main theological factors which played- and  continues to play- and important role in the &quot;estrangement&quot;  between Eastern and Western Christianity.  [In this essay] two contemporary  experts in these differing approaches examine the issue.  On the Eastern  side, the focus is placed upon St. Gregory Palamas.  On the Western side,  the focus is placed on the doctrine of St.Thomas Aquinas.&quot;<br />       This is one of those gems that you are so thankful to find in the field of  theological writings.  It's a bit technical, but it's worth the struggle if  you are just beginning and very illuminating if you're familar with the  issues, since it poses the question from the point of view of St. Palamas;  an often overlooked theologian from the often overlooked Eastern Church.	2000-08-14
US	49537626	RT7064YIRFX4K	0913836311	749927209	The Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church	Books	5	157	158	N	N	a mind-altering book, very unique	Far from dry theology, Lossky interacts with the Orthodox tradition with expertise knowledge and a genuine faith in the reality of the Father's activity in this world through His Son and Spirit, in the context of the  Church.  The book is worth buying just for the introduction, which outlines  the meaning of theology in the Orthodox Church. Is Christian theology just  neo-Platonism? Is God transcendant just because we are limited in our  understanding? Is grace created or uncreated? Is deification (theosis) a  hellenic leftover or the meaning of union in Christ? Why was Christ  incarnate and what does the Holy Spirit do? What do we say about how God is  in Himself and how God is in relation to creation?  Lossky tackles these  and other pertinent subjects in this masterpiece. You will not read this  book and remain unchanged, not because Lossky is such an original and  innovative thinker (he is that), but becasue Lossky faithfully interprets  the Tradition. The rest of this review is taken from the jacket of the book  itself. <br />     &quot;Vladimir Lossky established himself as one of the  most brilliant of Orthodox scholars in the years between his departure from  Russia in 1923 and his death in 1958.  His uncompromising faithfulness to  Scriptural and patristic tradition, coupled with his constant concern for  an articulate Orthodox witness in the West, make his works indispensable  for an understanding of the theology of the Eastern Church today. In this  classic study of Orthodox theology, Lossky states that 'in a certain sense  all theology is mystical, in as much as it shows forth the divine mystery:  the data of revelation...the eastern tradition has never made a sharp  distinction between mysticism and theology, between personal experience of  the divine mysteries and the dogma affirmed by the Church.' The term  'mystical theology' denotes in the realm of human experience, that which is  accessable yet inaccessable; those things understood yet surpassing all  knowledge.&quot;<br />     Other books of interest include: &quot;The Orthodox  Way&quot; and &quot;The Orthodox Church&quot; by Kallistos (Timothy) Ware;  &quot;Byzantine Theology&quot; by John Meyendorff; any Georges Florovsky  books; &quot;The Roots of Christian Mysticism&quot; by Olivier Clement; The  Gospel of St. John; Jaraslov Pelikan's 5 volume series &quot;The Christian  Tradition&quot;; &quot;New Seeds of Contemplation&quot; by Thoman Merton.	2000-07-25
US	49537626	R1VE1TWTQR1K3O	0931888484	573713769	This Is My Body: An Evangelical Discovers The Real Presence	Books	4	54	56	N	N	escaping the Real Abscence	Shea's work is a great place to start if you're interested in the traditional, biblical view of the Eucharist and matter in general.  While the Roman Catholic Church holds a rather defined view of the sacramental  presence (compared to the Orthodox) it is well worth noting that the west  approaches many topics with its own concepts, which is not something to be  looked down upon or rejected as &quot;a tradition of men&quot;. Shea's book  is another of those which Catholic apologists will want to have to give  away. It's cheap and accurate, as well as persuasive.  For a more detailed  study, see &quot;Eucharist&quot; by Louis Bouyer.  For general critiques of  Protestant anti-Catholic arguments, see Shea's other book, &quot;By What  Authority?&quot; or for an Orthodox approach to Protestantism, see Jordan  Bajis' &quot;Common Ground&quot;.  The main thing is to pray, receive the  Eucharist, and study for yourself.  There are no missing links in the  history of Eucharistic theology.  Take some time to review the data first  hand; pick up the Fathers and the New Testament. But don't forget that this  book is a fine place to start.	2000-07-23
US	49537626	R2V50X3GIYBBBS	9607120043	862162326	The Greek East and the Latin West	Books	5	33	33	N	N	balanced and accurate	I always find Sherrard's books stimulating for at least two reasons. One, he does not gloss over tough issues by evading difficult questions.  He takes them head-on with respect and balance, drawing from a deep love of  God and His Church.  Secondly, he approaches many of the topics in a fresh  way, using arguments that are not always found in other texts, conceeding  points which others won't let go of, and all with an apparent willingness  to be corrected by those more learned than he.  You may not always agree  with him, but you will certainly come to appreciate your own positions as  well as his in a new way.  In fact, I wouldn't be surprised if you learned  how your own tradition works for the first time (even if you disagree with  him) by sitting at the feet of Sherrard. The following is the jacket's  review of the book.  &quot;The division of Christiendom into the Greek  East and the Latin West has its origins far back in history but its  consequences still affect Europe, and thus Western Civilization.  Phillip  Sherrard's study seeks to indicate both the fundamental character and some  of the consequences of this division.  He points especially to the  underlying metaphysical bases of Greek Christian thought, and contrasts  them with those of the Latin West: he argues persuasively that the  philosophical and even theological differences, remote as they might seem  from practical affairs, are symptoms of a deep divergence of outlook that  has profoundly affected the history of ideas and hence the whole course of  European history.  He exemplifies this by contrasting the relationships  between the spiritual and the temporal powers during the Byzantine period  with those assumed by the medieval Papacy; by an analysis of the 'Platonic  reaction' of such figures as Gemistos Plethon; and by an exposition of the  intellectual background of the Renaissance, the Reformation, and finally,  of the modern western world.  His concluding chapters discuss the impact of  modern western ideas on Greek life and letters during that last few  centuries.  With an unusual knowledge of aspects of thought of the  Greek Fathers often neglected in the West, and a deep sympathy with their  outlook on these matters, Sherrard presents a point of view that may be  unfamiliar, but should be of great concern, both to theologians and  philosophers, and to historians and students of European civilization and  ideed of world affairs in general.&quot;  &quot;...an appeal whose  passionate eloquence is reinforced by a most interesting account of the  thought of some little-known Eastern scholars, theologians, and  poets.&quot;- A.A. Stephenson in 'The Month'  Other books of interst  may include: Sherrard's &quot;Church, Papacy, and Schism&quot;,  &quot;Common Ground&quot; by Jordin Bajis, Colin Gunton's &quot;The One,  The Three, And The Many&quot;, &quot;The Christian East and the Rise of the  Papacy&quot; by Papadakis and Meyendorff, &quot;Imperial Unity and  Christian Division&quot;, also by John Meyendorff.f  modern western ideas on Greek life and letters during that last few  centuries.       With an unusual knowledge of aspects of thought of the  Greek Fathers often neglected in the West, and a deep sympathy with their  outlook on these matters, Sherrard presents a point of view that may be  unfamiliar, but should be of great concern, both to theologians and  philosophers, and to historians and students of European civilization and  ideed of world affairs in general.&quot;      &quot;...an appeal whose  passionate eloquence is reinforced by a most interesting account of the  thought of some little-known Eastern scholars, theologians, and  poets.&quot;- A.A. Stephenson in 'The Month'      Other books of interst  may include: Sherrard's &quot;Church, Papacy, and Schism&quot;,  &quot;Common Ground&quot; by Jordin Bajis, Colin Gunton's &quot;The One,  The Three, And The Many&quot;, &quot;The Christian East and the Rise of the  Papacy&quot; by Papadakis and Meyendorff, &quot;Imperial Unity and  Christian Division&quot;, also by John Meyendorff.	2000-07-14
US	49537626	R14Z7GVSH587RP	0937032816	87582542	Common Ground: An Introduction to Eastern Christianity for the American Christian	Books	5	5	5	N	N	He's done his homework, now do yours!	Father Bajis' own description of his work cannot be topped, nor should it be.  He's done his homework, now do yours! If you read this book serveral things will happen. You'll get a great introduction to Eastern Orthodoxy,  geared to the Protestant and Catholic mindset. You'll get an incredible  reading list by reading the extensive endnotes.  In addition, you will most  likely learn more about your own history, whether your Prot or Catholic. If  you have not read his description above this review, please do (yourself a  favor)!<br />Other books of interest: &quot;Not by Scripture Alone&quot; by  Sungenis, &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot;, &quot;The Orthodox Church&quot;,  and &quot;How are We Saved?&quot; by Bishop Kallistos Ware. Congar's  &quot;Tradition and Traditions&quot; is a great work of Catholic  scholarship by one of the masters. &quot;The Mystical Theology of the  Eastern Church&quot; by Vladimir Lossky will reshape your brain (and your  nous)!	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R3UOKD5P493GGN	0881410497	640740437	Way of the Ascetics: The Ancient Tradition of Discipline and Inner Growth	Books	5	31	32	N	N	A spiritual wake-up call	This little gem has found its way into the lives of thousands and bears a great return in communion with the Holy Trinity. Kierkegaard said that purity of heart is to will one thing.  Through the grace of God it is a  realisitc hope to purify the heart.  Liturgy, Eucharist, almsgiving,etc are  all means to this end.  Colliander's book helps the seeker tune the inner  life to the will of God though the groundwork of prayer and practical  asceticism.  One thing that is so winsome about it is that he doesn't hold  spiritual carrots out to the reader without giving real guidance in how to  grow in holiness. As with any book on such a serious topic, DO NOT read it  for spiritual titulation.  Take it seriously in the love of God. This is  reality.<br />Check out &quot;Encountering the Depths&quot; by Mother Mary  Clare and &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot; by Bishop Kallistos Ware.  They've  been a great help to many!	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R30H40BJ1XZANB	0898701651	588616042	Women in the Priesthood: A Systematic Analysis in the Light of the Order of Creation and Redemption (English and German Edition)	Books	5	18	22	N	N	essential reading	This is a very detailed account of the ordination debate which is balanced, informed by all the current facts, and rooted in historical Christianity. Hauke's masterpiece is so extensive and detailed that it is  actullay several books in one. Given the size and material of the book,  $25.00 is a steal! While this book is NOT in favor of women's ordination,  it is not a polemical tirade nor the all too often congratulatory  backslapping and question-begging which accompanies too much of the  literature on both sides.  Rather, Hauke's book is balanced, fair, and very  very well researced.  I was going to attempt to write out the table of  contents, but it would take too long. I decided to just give the headings.  Part One I.The Question of the emancipation of women as a background to the  theological debate. II.The controversy about ordination of women in the  non-Catholic sphere III.The problem of women in the priesthood as a  consequence of the &quot;conciliar upheaval&quot; IV.Characteristics of  feminist theology V.The Creation-Theological approach to a resolution of  the problem VI.Anthropological Foundations VII.Sexuality and the Image of  God:Inquiries based on the study of religion VIII.The relevance of material  from anthropology and religious studies to the discussion of the order of  redemption IX.The relation between Woman and Man in the biblical account of  primal history Part Two:The question of Women in the priesthood against the  backgroundof the order of redemption<br />I.Preparatory aspects of the Old  Testament II.&quot;Sexual&quot; traits in the Christian image of God  III.Mary: Archetype and Mother of the Church IV.The behavior of Christ  V.Testimony of Saint Paul VI.The period of the Church Fathers VII.The  Middle Ages VIII.A historically conditioned undervaluation of women as the  reason for their exclusion from the Priesthood? IX.The result of this work  and the degree of theological certainty Conclusion  Notes Index   <br />Other  books of interest include Hauke's &quot;God or Goddess?&quot;, Louis  Bouyer's &quot;Women in the Church&quot;, &quot;Deaconesses&quot;, by  Martimort, Women and the Priesthood&quot; Kreeft and Hildebrand, &quot;The  Female Diaconate: An Historical Perspective&quot; by Ellen Gvosdev, Karl  Stern's &quot;The Flight from Woman&quot;, &quot;The Church and Woman&quot;  ed. Moll.  An Eastern Orthodox view can be found in the anthology  &quot;Women and the Priesthood&quot;, ed. Hopko.  An excellent analysis of  God, gender, and language is found in &quot;Speaking the Christian  God&quot;, ed.Alvin Kimmel, jr.	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R9CUMEMZ29Q4Z	1885652348	181886946	Inner Way Toward a Rebirth of Eastern Christian Spiritual Direction	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Refreshing and needed	As the table of contents show (above), Allen's work is detailed and attuned to the life-giving tradition of Eastern Orthodoxy.  As an Orthodox under the direction of a Father, I can attest to the reality of such an  approach in tangible terms.  Whatever tradition you come from, this book  will give you insight into our collective tradition and hopefully encourage  you to seek out someone with whom you can struggle and grow.  &quot;The man  who chooses himself has chosen a fool.&quot;<br />Other books of interest in  this regard are: &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot; by Bishop Kallistos Ware,  &quot;The Psalms&quot;, &quot;A different Christianity&quot; by Robin Amis,  &quot;Beginning to Pray&quot; by Archbishop Bloom, and Colliander's  classic, &quot;The Way of the Ascetics&quot;. Pray. As Bishop Ware has  said, the devil says 'tomorrow,' The Holy Spirit says, 'Today!'	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R1ND5UZCSRM18D	0536001731	916773767	Tradition and Traditions: The Biblical, Historical, and Theological Evidence for Catholic Teaching on Tradition	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Yikes, Scooby!  It's back in print!	I would give this book 10 stars if I could.  Not only does Congar present his thesis with great expertise, he covers ALL the bases in regards to tradition, scripture, and the Church just as the subtitle says.   Protestants beware!<br />This will not be a quick read, however.  You'll need  to take some time to chew on this one.  Other books which you may want to  look at include: &quot;Not by Scripture Alone&quot; by Sungenis, &quot;By  What Authority?&quot; by Shea, &quot;Eucharist&quot; by Bouyer, &quot;the  Christian Tradition&quot; in 5 volumes by Jaraslov Pelikan, &quot;Common  Ground&quot; by Bajis, &quot;The Vindication of Tradition&quot; by Pelikan,  and &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot; by Bishop Kallistos Ware.	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R2E90IPYOUB0HJ	0819216399	27336114	Encountering the Depths: Prayer, Solitude, and Contemplation	Books	5	12	12	N	N	A book true to its title	&quot;Prayer is the gateway to the vision of God for which we were created.  It is the means for free and conscious intercourse between the creature and his creator, and it expresses the union between the two.  It  is the art of spiritual living, and it will be incomplete if it includes  only the presence of God without the presence of man.&quot;<br />This is a  book about the nature and practice of prayer for the serious Christian, lay  and clerical, in which the problems of the spiritual life in the modern  world are presented as a challenge.  Mother Mary Clare, who was one of the  Anglican Church's leading spiritual directors, takes the major  contemplative themes and brings to them her unique belnd of spiritual  realism, vision and authority.  Prayer begins and ends in the inescapable  necessity of a relationship with God; the dimension of silence reveals that  prayer is not only an action but a still contemplation; the path of  spiritual progress is to discern in the union of action and contemplation a  deeper listening which leads to an apostolate of prayer renewing the action  of contemplation.  It is all God's work. <br />Bishop Ramsey writes in his  Foreward: &quot;I hope this little book will have many readers, as I am  sure it will help them as it has helped me...Christian lives which know  contemplation will be lives nearer the love of God in its outflowing  stream.&quot;<br />Mother Mary Clare, S.L.G., was Mother General of the  Anglican enclosed order of Sisters of the Love of Godfrom 1954 to 1973,  having entered the religious life in 1930.  Until her death in 1988, she  was in much demand as a spiritual advisor and counsellor.                 Other books of interest may include Bishop Kallistos Ware's &quot;The  Orthodox Way&quot;; Thomas Merton's works on prayer, all of which are  helpful; the Psalms, found in any Bible; Henri Nouwen's  &quot;Compassion&quot;; C.S. Lewis' &quot;Letters to Malcom&quot;; and  &quot;Beginning to Pray&quot; by Anthony Bloom.  The prayers of the Roman,  Anglican, and Eastern Orthodox traditions, found in their liturgical texts,  are also trustworthy guides to &quot;encountering the depths&quot;.	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R1HITQT8YP2Y5B	0536001731	916773767	Tradition and Traditions: The Biblical, Historical, and Theological Evidence for Catholic Teaching on Tradition	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Yikes, Scooby!  It's back in print!	I would give this book 10 stars if I could.  Not only does Congar present his thesis with great expertise, he covers ALL the bases in regards to tradition, scripture, and the Church just as the subtitle says.  He's done  his homework, now do yours! Protestants beware!<br />This will not be a quick  read, however.  You'll need to take some time to chew on this one.  Other  books which you may want to look at include: &quot;Not by Scripture  Alone&quot; by Sungenis, &quot;By What Authority?&quot; by Shea,  &quot;Eucharist&quot; by Bouyer, &quot;the Christian Tradition&quot; in 5  volumes by Jaraslov Pelikan, &quot;Common Ground&quot; by Bajis, &quot;The  Vindication of Tradition&quot; by Pelikan, and &quot;The Orthodox Way&quot;  by Bishop Kallistos Ware.	2000-06-17
US	49537626	R3B88GTVGFUPUG	0913836133	163975453	In the Image and Likeness of God (English and French Edition)	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Man's destiny is communion with the Life of the Trinity	A collection of essays, this gem is sure to deepen and change your understanding of salvation, creation, God, the Church and many other topics.  I found it hard to sleep after reading this book at night, as it  seemed to charge my mind with a surge of creativity and a desire to put my  face on the floor to pray. These essays are far from dry.  Engaging from  the start, they cover the following topics: 1.Apophasis and Trinitarian  Theology 2.Darkness and Light in the Knowledge of God 3.The Theology of  Light in the Thought of St.Gregory Palamas 4.The Procession of the Holy  Spirit in Orthodox Trinitarian Theology 5.Redemption and Deification 6.The  Theological Notion of the Human Person 7.The Theology of the Image  8.Tradition and Traditions 9.Concerning the Third Mark of the Church:  Catholicity 10.Catholic Consciousness: Anthropological Implications of the  Dogma of the Church 11.Panagia 12Dominion and Kingship: An Eschatological  Study Bibliography<br />It is hard to imagine a better presentation of these  topics. My only complaint is his use of greek and latin without  translating.  While his use is usually inferrable from the context, if you  are unfamiliar with theological jargon, you'll want a greek-latin-english  dictionary at hand (maybe not, though). PLEASE don't let that scare you.   It is a minimal amont of times that you'll not get what he means. Besides,  isn't time to learn a little greek? Although Lossky's works are always  worthwhile, his &quot;Mystical Theology of the Eastern Church&quot; takes  the cake.  He's done his homework, now do yours!	2000-06-17
US	49537626	RRRZGJ4NWYVY2	1579180558	843012855	Not by Scripture Alone: A Catholic Critique of the Protestant Doctrine of Sola Scriptura	Books	5	14	17	N	N	You decide	I suppose that you'll read at least a few of these reviews and think that either the Catholics or the Prots are a bunch of nuts who can't recognize a logical argument if it hit them in the face.  Well, as an Eastern Orthodox  who used to be Lutheran (lcms) I can sympathize with both sides, since I  used to hold to Sola Scriptura and now hold a different view (although it's  not quite the same as the RC stance).      What's important is that we all  try to seek God's will together, even if that means we get a bit nasty  sometimes.  Dialogue is the key, honest dialoge, I should say.  I love this  book, since I think it is clear and presents many arguments against the  catholic position without using straw man tactics.  Congar's classic  &quot;Tradition and Traditions&quot; is also a good one to read in this  regard.  Don't forget that sometimes we can't see the forest if we don't  step back from the tree we're all climbing.  take a chance to read a few  general Church history books to keep in context.  I recommend Jaraslov  Pelikan's 5 volume &quot;The Christian Tradition&quot;. Did you know he's  Orthodox now? (I had to say it).  Forgive me, May Christ be with us	2000-06-15
US	49537626	R27OHB7YP66Z32	0807015032	241856217	Beyond God the Father: Toward a Philosophy of Women's Liberation	Books	3	47	67	N	N	it depends on what you're looking for	This book, along with many of the attempts to disuade seekers from using traditional language when referring to God, is very useful if you want to understand what Daly's view of religion is but not so useful if you want to  read an accurate book on the subject which isn't so slanted. A great place  to start is &quot;God or Goddess,&quot; by Hauke.  &quot;Speaking the  Christian God&quot; by Kimel is very useful.  For a true historical look at  the place of women in the clergy of the Christian tradition, Hauke's  &quot;Women in the priesthood?&quot; is exhaustive.  Not to be too timid  here, I would recommend &quot;Ungodly Rage&quot; by Donna Steichen.	2000-06-15
US	49537626	R38VN8JE12BBX4	1880971224	187458450	How Are We Saved?: The Understanding of Salvation in the Orthodox Tradition	Books	5	20	22	N	N	salvation is multifacited	Bishop Kallistos Ware of Oxford presents 44 views of salvation according to the Scriptures and the Church Fathers. The format consists of short chapters which focus on specific elements of salvation. Topics include:  Salvation as theosis (deification), exchange, process, synergism, the  absolute necessity of grace, original sin, St. Augustine, the Fall,  sacraments, salvation as personal but not individualistic, and many, many  more topics. Ware's use of primary sources is helpful for those who wish to  do further study. If you are intersted in Eastern Orthodoxy, this is a  great book to begin with.  If you are already familiar with the tradition,  then &quot;How are we Saved?&quot; will refresh your memory and I'm sure  teach you something new.                      Other books of interest  include:  &quot;The Orthodox Church&quot; and &quot;The Orthodox Way,&quot;  both by Bishop Kallistos Ware.  &quot;Common Ground,&quot; by Jordan Bajis,  contains a detailed analysis of the Eastern approach to theology, Church,  salvation, etc and is very detailed and informative. As well, all Vladimir  Lossky books are insightful in this regard.  Lossky is, however, difficult  at times for those unfamiliar with technical terminology.  John  Meyendorff's, &quot;Byzantine Theology,&quot; is excellent for further,  detailed study of Eastern Orthodoxy.	2000-05-16
US	49537626	R1JKOOOP7HD1T0	0898702216	218209798	Evangelical Is Not Enough: Worship of God in Liturgy and Sacrament	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A welcome read	Howard's book is excellent for those seeking a more incarnational, traditional, and holistic approach to the Christian faith.  He covers key issues that typically keep Protestants away from the Roman Church- the  union of spirit and flesh, traditional views of worship and prayer, the  reverence Catholics offer to Mary and the faithful departed, and a  convincing argument in favor of the &quot;real presence&quot; of Christ  Jesus in the Eucharist. This book is very winsome and has been given to  many friends. Other books of interest may include CONGAR'S &quot;tradition  and traditions&quot; (quite scholarly); Frank SCHAEFFER's Dancing Alone (an  Orthodox Apologetic); and the SUNGENIS duo &quot;Not by Scripture  Alone&quot; and &quot;Not by Faith Alone&quot;.  Kallistos Ware's  &quot;Orthodox Way&quot; and &quot;Orthodox Church&quot; are also HIGHLY  recommended in this regard.	2000-05-13
