US	49534502	R2ADM9C2SWW8W7	068482633X	850855975	New Testament in Modern English	Books	1	5	117	N	N	a poor read	Northrop Frye used to stress the importance of reading the Bible - Old and New Testament - as a unity, as a continuous story. He thought this would follow the intentions of the final editors most closely. This is true. However the faithful seems to be more likely to ignore the larger concept and prefers to be curiously selective in his or her reading. The quoting is usually all over the place without any regard for context and focusses often entirely on the so called New Testament. However - Jews too are part of our heritage.<br />Western culture is not identical with an entirely Christian world; thank goodness! Without our classical heritage and without Jewish contributors, our civilization would be poorer and less interesting. And of course Jews - secular and religious - represent a section in the cultural spectrum that couldn't care less for the significance of the New Testament, except for the reprehension and bodily grief caused by waving the thing into their faces. As for me: the Bible is a book of imaginative literature. It's the only way I care reading it.<br />In my review on the The King James Bible I have already said that the New Testament strikes one as something of a letdown. The Old Testament is the militant monument to a nation; this sorry appendix is the first example for the most popular genre on our bookshelves: the self-help manual. How to repair your car and loose weight in seven easy steps. The narrow horizon of vindictive but purblind sectarians who can see things only in two colours: black and white. Everybody in this picture is barely more than a puppet in a cosmic chess game between good and evil.<br />Except for John the Evangelist and passages from Luke, the quality of writing is generally poor. It takes a St. Augustine to defend Paul's rhetorical skills in 2 Cor. 11:16-33. Somebody seems to have taken a chapter out of Dostoyevsky at his worst: everybody wallows in hysterics and the \\"disciples\\" binge on self-humiliation and sin their wayto Jeeesus. Whether New Testament or Dostoyevsky: they spoil my day. I detest the anti-intellectual bias and the folksy mythology. I detest this phony offer of effortless shortcuts and the presumptuous glorification of the disenfranchised as the secretly privileged.<br />Fast food for the simple minded, quick fixes for the hopeless. In fact, I have always considered \\" who hath warned you to flee from the wrath to come?\\" (Mt. 3:7) a fair question. There is something woolly and sickening in all these hysterics over an (ultimately broken) promise (Mk. 9:1, 13:30; Mt. 10:23; 1 Cor. 16:51; 1 Thess. 4:15-17). The book aims at the lowest common denominator and it doesn't improve the aspect, when the arrogance of self-styled innitiates into some homespun \\"Gnosis,\\" chooses to walk in the shroud of meekness.<br />The period was teeming with religious con-artists. Apollonius of Tyana, Peregrinus Proteus and Alexander of Abonuteichos plied their trades in the eastern bazaars, healing and soothsaying, with stories of Apollonius' birth by a virgin following on the imposter's heels. Exposing the baloney was as ineffectual then, as it is now. Despite the charlatan's exposure by the satirist Lucian (c.120-c.190 AD.) the cult of Alexander of Abonuteichos continued for centuries and is even commemorated on coins of the period.<br />Those were credulous times and the general decline of Hellenistic sciences and public education didn't help the situation at all. Surviving a snake bite was evidently enough for the inhabitants of Malta to believe that Paul himself was a god (Acts 28:6). And Paul and his companion Barnabas had to go to some lengths to convince the Lycaonians of Lystra that they were not deities, for the locals immediately sought to sacrifice to them as manifestations of Hermes and Zeus, simply because a man with bad feet stood up (Acts 14:8-18).<br />It explains how the claptrap in 1 Cor. 2:14-15 could ever be taken seriously: \\"But the natural man receiveth not the things of the Spirit of God: for they are foolishness unto him: neither can he know them, because they are spiritually discerned. But he that is spiritual judgeth all things, yet he himself is judged of no man (sic!).\\" Somebody give me my flyswatter. I think I could make a very good case, to deny altogether a grand unity that bridges both parts of the Bible, as Northrop Frye proposes in his \\"Great Code.\\"<br />No doubt the Tanakh is the New Testament's point of reference, which in itself is already a con-act. Clearly the Old Testament is not constructed to suffer this ludicrous appendix as a conclusion to its own story. Old and New Testament are telling two different tales. When progressing to a Christian canon, the councils deliberated on the best arrangement to establish the apparent symmetry between what Frye used to term as \\"types\\" and \\"anti-types.\\" A typical case of \\"hindsight reading,\\" but little more.<br />For the interested, the archive on my website details the story and structure of the New Testament and how it developed from the gospels to \\"Revelations,\\" which the editors not without hesitation had added as the capstone to the edifice. It appeared to be the only conclusion that could interpret and put in context the incidents and proclamations collected in the texts, which were documents from a bygone period of hope to overturn Roman rule in a great cosmic cataclysm. After Constantine's edict of toleration in 314 AD, this was no longer on of course - but by then the canon had solidified.	2002-05-22
US	49534502	RU5RC6ACO2HY6	0760725594	136197598	Making the List: A Cultural History of the American Bestseller, 1900-1999	Books	1	2	8	N	N	ridiculous	I wonder how much of these listings actually profile the reader. Some readers would never touch a best-seller even with an iron tong. This is of course pointless snobbery - what can you do if you are good and the people love you? You write a best-seller. Provided of course you find a publisher willing to muscle in his PR resources. But first you got to find him. Some best-sellers are also holding the record for the highest number of manuscript rejections. Publishers know nothing, they are business people.  <BR> <BR>Many readers buy nothing but best-sellers. Not a good policy either. The percentage of good books presented in best-seller listings, is just as small as the percentage of good books in the total of books ever printed. Lets not forget, most of the real good books are out of print. The discerning reader - a rare breed - doesnt care how the PR industry labels a book. And thats the way it should be. There are still differences. Good books can be best-sellers, best-sellers are not necessarily good books.  <BR> <BR>No doubt, the avid reader of best-sellers is getting a fair representation in those listings, and I am quite willing to concede that those readers may represent a majority. Still: what about the others? Its really like this fast food thing: McDonalds is a huge enterprise, and not without reason. But does this make connoisseurs of French cuisine yearn to really rather eat at McDonalds? Kordas argument is ridiculous. In matters of culture and taste, there is no such thing as democracy and egalitarianism.	2002-02-23
US	49534502	R25QK66WVSPUYE	0140444645	333992635	The Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	18	N	N	a modern poet in ancient times	After Catullus early experiments, Gallus was the first to borrow directly from the Alexandrians whose poets, more than a century earlier, had introduced a new sensibility and the conflict between urbanity and the urban concept of nature - preferably in a bucolic setting, as in Theocritus idylls. An innovation, to which even a Hebrew poet - perhaps a rabbis daughter - made a contribution with the Song of Solomon, which is not just ostentatious poetry, but a bit of a rabbinic crossword puzzle: how many allusions and direct quotes from the Bible, would a reader recognize?  <BR> <BR>The undisputed Doyen of Hellenistic poetry was Callimachos, a scholar employed by the library in Alexandria. He had experimented with new prosodic patterns, wrote hymns, epigrams, court poetry, and especially etiological works. Catullus created for himself a pedigree by translating Callimachos Lock of Berenice. But it was Cornelius Gallus who began imitating the bucolic urbanity we find echoed in Vergil's Eclogues. We know that Vergil admired Gallus. Eclogue X addresses him directly. Then came Propertius and claimed Mimnermos as his literary pedigree; he adapted the Greek poet's meter, but in a vastly different tone. <BR> <BR>Gaius Sextus Propertius data are very uncertain: born sometime between 54-47, he died sometime between 15-02 BC. All we know of Propertius life is that he had grown up near Perugia, that his familys estate, like Vergil's, had been confiscated for Augustus veterans, but that unlike Virgil he was able to subsist on his own means. In his poems he obsesses over a woman he called Cynthia. The emotion is intense, the expression refined, and full of the aroma of daily life. He is aware that he is an innovator. His poems ripple with a confusingly complex sensitivity. <BR> <BR>And that exactly is the problem for a modern reader! Propertius prided himself on being learned. He often used versions of myths obscure even to erudite Romans. A reader without a grip on the lore of Antiquity, is simply lost if he tries to appreciate in detail all the hints, innuendos, and references. But who, in our days, has such a grasp? My own edition uses 160 generously spaced pages for the actual poetry and 320 pages for a tightly packed index of personal names, biographical notes and all the mythological and geographical references. Reading these poems is an experience surprisingly similar to reading certain modern authors - surprising for the degree of intellectual kinship and modernity that bridges a gap of 2,000 years. <BR> <BR>Unlike Ovid, who was a favorite of the Elizabethans, Metaphysicians, and practically everybody ever since, Propertius came to light rather late. In the English speaking world, it was A.E. Housman, the English poet and self-taught Latinist, who was the first to champion Propertius technical brilliance in a series of articles. But before Ezra Pounds Homage To Sextus Propertius, there was barely any awareness of Propertius existence in the reading public. The simple fact remains: Propertius is a poets poet. Not for trying to be difficult, but for following a convention that has practically vanished from our historical awareness.  <BR> <BR>We still use mythological patterns and characters to typify human behavior, even so for most people it is biblical mythology that has replaced the pagan paradigm. However the correlative changes in the underpinning concepts of man and his purpose has led to inevitable losses in sentiment and reference. For instance the only positive example for pederasty in the Bible is the story of Jonathan and David. Pagan mythology on the other hand offers hundreds of references and developed a code of romantic love entirely based on pederasty.  <BR> <BR>In poem No. 20 we can compare Propertius method with two of his Alexandrian models. In his epic on the Argonauts, Apollonios of Rhodes tells the tale of the drowning of Hercules boyfriend Hylas. Hylas has left the camp to fetch some water. The water nymphs see him, fall in love, and drag him under. Hylas screams, but sadly Hercules arrives too late, and fails to rescue his beloved. Theocritus tells the same tale, but focusses more on the erotic intensity between the lovers and the story of the drowning itself. Theocritus addressed his poem to his own boyfriend, Nikias. Propertius found yet another angle to the same myth. <BR> <BR>The essential difference is in Propertius depiction of Hylas. Theocritus simply makes him a youth who went to fetch water and was kidnapped. Propertius paints Hylas as a youth of indolence - who is not at all coy to signal his sexual availability. In addition, we also see Hylas from the nymphs perspective. So he warns his friend Gallus to keep a close eye on his little lover, lest he loses him to rabid nymphs, as Hercules lost Hylas. This poem is a good example for Propertius use of multiple perspectives. But his poems must be read in their designated context.  <BR> <BR>Especially the first book of the collection betrays an immense effort to interlink the poems to a cycle of exploration. Elegiac poetry got its name from the metrical unit - the elegiac couplet. It is composed of alternating lines of verse in dactylic hexameter followed by a pentameter. Dactylic hexameter is the meter used in epic poetry but by combining it with a pentameter, the poetry is constantly deflated, because for every bold, frontal statement in the first line, there follows a second line lacking in metrical grandeur. Propertius is recognized as metrical genius, the equal of Vergil. <BR> <BR>Propertius cycle of poems is a story of grace and possessive addiction. Granny Natures sly way to make her creatures go is clearly recognized for what it is and how it creates a conflict with acceptable conduct in polite society. But unlike Rousseau and the Romantics, Propertius does not romanticize the savage in us, nor condemn culture as an evil. Love is a divine gift, but it has a destructive side to it. And whereOvid laughs away the pains of love as a mere party game, Propertius darker temperament wrestles with a profoundly troubling affliction.	2001-10-25
US	49534502	R1OF7JIUQ2M19M	0679600086	257245869	Plutarch: Lives of Noble Grecians and Romans (Modern Library Series, Vol. 1)	Books	5	8	15	N	N	educator of the western world	After the Turks had conquered Constantinople, refuges brought manuscripts of Plutarch to Italy. It was the right time. Secular scholars and enlightened clerics took a new interest in the learning of Antiquity and the Greek language. For the first time since the fall of Rome, Homer was not just a name, but actually read in the original. And PlutarchÕs &Ograve;Lives&Oacute; became the handbook for the European gentlemanÕs higher education. In fact through many channels, Plutarch reintroduced the ancient concepts of republican freedom and democracy to a world that seemed to have completely forgotten that they had ever had existed.<br /><br />Plutarch became the United StatesÕ secret founding father; Thomas Jefferson and the signatories to the constitution, they all had grown up with Plutarch on their curriculum. He infused them with the spirit of democracy: &Ograve;For all we know, opposite parties or factions in a commonwealth, like passengers in a boat, serve to trim and balance the unsteady motions of power; whereas if they combine and come all over to one side, they cause to overset the vessel and carry down everything.&Oacute; And he conveyed a grasp of the larger picture: &Ograve;Economy, which is but money-making, when exercised over men, becomes policy.&Oacute;<br /><br />With Plutarch, liberalism raises its voice and in Tiberius GracchusÕ (163-133 B.C.) speech, he recorded for us this timeless indictment of &Ograve;conservative values&Oacute; and &Ograve;patriotism:&Oacute; &Ograve;... The beasts find refuge in their dens, but men who for the safety of their country expose their lives in service, breathe on borrowed air under the open sky. Having no roof of their own, with wive and children, they wander from place to place. Is it not ridiculous to hear generals exhort their soldiers to fight for the hearth of their ancestors, when not any of so many Romans own altar or monument, neither have even a house to defend? They fight and they are slain, but it is for the wealth of other men. Being called masters of the world, they have not one square-inch of land to call their own.&Oacute;<br /><br />But, always the realist, and himself living under despotic rule Plutarch adds: &Ograve;in a time when right is weak, we may be thankful if might assumes a form of gentleness,&Oacute; because, (and he quotes Cato): &Ograve;by nature a king is a man-eating animal.&Oacute; PlutarchÕs grasp on human nature was already very advanced, before the barbaric notion of original sin threw society back to the ethical stone age: &Ograve;Men by nature is not a wild animal or unsocial creature, neither was he born so, but makes himself what he naturally is not by vicious habit. He is civilized and grows gentle by a change of place, occupation, and manner of life, as wild beasts become tame and domesticated. With good reason, those who train horses and dogs, endeavour by gentle means to cure their angry and intractable tempers, rather than by cruelty and beating.&Oacute;<br /><br />Without being an atheist, PlutarchÕs comment on a situation equivalent to Gen. 22:2, reveals a discerning grasp on the motives and sentiments which underpin faith into the irrational and he urges: &Ograve;that such a barbarous and impious obligation could not be pleasing to any Superior Being or to the father of gods and men; that it is absurd to imagine any divinities or powers taking delight in slaughter and sacrifices of men; or, if there were such, they are to be neglected as weak and unable to assist! Because such unreasonable and cruel desires can only proceed from weak and depraved minds.&Oacute; And: &Ograve;the worship most acceptable to the gods is that which comes from a cheerful heart.&Oacute;<br /><br />To fully appreciate his greatness, one has to remember, that Plutarch was neither a thinker, nor one of the great intellectual luminaries of his period - just a very bright popular writer and educator, but also a human being of integrity, culture, and arare capacity for compassion. He influenced Western art as much as Western politics. For his dramas, Shakespeare lifted entire passages from NorthÕs translation. And no other writer in all Antiquity would have cared to take notice of the dog who jumped into the sea and swam side to side with the galley which carried his family, when during the Persian war the entire population of Athens was to be evacuated to Troezen. For lack of shipping space domestic animals and pets had to be left behind. The dog didnÕt quite make it and drowned short of the shores of Salamis.<br /><br />Often Plutarch conveys a sense of wellbeing, of a Golden Age, and he still holds court over our imagination. The most interesting chapter for anthropologists, is the portrayal of Lycurgus and his laws. Himself a product of a patriarchal society, Plutarch had not a clue, that his accurate description of Spartan customs, would depict one of the last matriarchal societies that had survived the coup de tat of the patriarchs. Utopian fantasies often become the excuse for totalitarian atrocities on dissenting minds - Plutarch was never part of the posse. But I remember him best for the little story about a man of trade sailing in a moonlit night leeward of the Aegean coast, when the sailors suddenly heard a voice carrying over from the near by shore: &Ograve;Travellers, tell the CorinthianÕs, the Great Pan is dead.&Oacute;<br /><br />Plutarch was a loving husband and father, an incorruptible administrator and conscientious ambassador for his people, a humanist and a model for liberalism ever since. There are books you want to have in your briefcase if that is all you are allowed to carry away from disaster and war; books that keep you company in your most difficult hour. PlutarchÕs &Ograve;Lives&Oacute; is definitely one of them. It had been of tremendous influence on our civilization, but unlike the Bible, of a wholesome and humanizing influence. Mommsen called Plutarch &Ograve;mellow and sweet as the honey from Mount Hymettos.&Oacute; Who is to say, that ancient paganism had nothing to contribute to the modern world?o other writer in all Antiquity would have cared to take notice of the dog who jumped into the sea and swam side to side with the galley which carried his family, when during the Persian war the entire population of Athens was to be evacuated to Troezen. For lack of shipping space domestic animals and pets had to be left behind. The dog didnt quite make it and drowned short of the shores of Salamis.  <BR> <BR>Often Plutarch conveys a sense of wellbeing, of a Golden Age, and he still holds court over our imagination. The most interesting chapter for anthropologists, is the portrayal of Lycurgus and his laws. Himself a product of a patriarchal society, Plutarch had not a clue, that his accurate description of Spartan customs, would depict one of the last matriarchal societies that had survived the coup de tat of the patriarchs. Utopian fantasies often become the excuse for totalitarian atrocities on dissenting minds - Plutarch was never part of the posse. But I remember him best for the little story about a man of trade sailing in a moonlit night leeward of the Aegean coast, when the sailors suddenly heard a voice carrying over from the near by shore: Travellers, tell the Corinthians, the Great Pan is dead.  <BR> <BR>Plutarch was a loving husband and father, an incorruptible administrator and conscientious ambassador for his people, a humanist and a model for liberalism ever since. There are books you want to have in your briefcase if that is all you are allowed to carry away from disaster and war; books that keep you company in your most difficult hour. Plutarchs Lives is definitely one of them. It had been of tremendous influence on our civilization, but unlike the Bible, of a wholesome and humanizing influence. Mommsen called Plutarch mellow and sweet as the honey from Mount Hymettos. Who is to say, that ancient paganism had nothing to contribute to the modern world?	2001-10-25
US	49534502	R1T7QN5L5CQ6L2	081121138X	248424806	Personae: The Shorter Poems (Revised Edition)	Books	3	7	38	N	N	not quite so superb	It is a sad fact, but all of the greatest poets of the 20th century, perhaps with the exception of Saint-John Perse and William Carlos Williams, felt the inexplicable urge to join the herd and camp out in highly dubious company. Mayakovsky, Ungaretti, Auden took at least temporary refuge in the revolution's dream of a world ruled by the proletarians of all nations - until the dream had turned into a nightmare. Gottfried Benn, not an anti-Semite by any means, became Nazi for the sake of their eugenic policies, Ezra Pound a card carrying fascist in Musolinis operatic rule; and both converted with zest. T.S. Eliot didn't mind to show his antisemitic leopard spots.  <BR> <BR>Of those who came clean through, Georg Trakl died too early to go wrong, though he had his own problems; Marianne Moor, I guess, can claim a gender privilege; Brodsky and Else Lasker-Schler had little choice anyway because they sat on the sharp end of the centurys numerous persecutions. A sad sight indeed. Another rather strange aspect is to see the top aces Eliot and Auden crossing the Atlantic in opposite directions and swapp nationalities or even to emigrate out of their languages altogether, like Sengor and Brodsky, which especially for a poet should be tantamount to artistic suicide.  <BR> <BR>(But it had been done before: the first rate Roman poet Claudianus was born Greek, the Archepoeta excelled in Latin when it had become the artificial Esperanto among medieval intellectuals, the French Chamisso naturalized himself in German (though I heard a Russian(!) friend of mine dismissing him as substandard,) the Polish born Conrad was awarded the Nobel-prize for his novels in English, Nabokov was a leading American writer. Being bilingual myself, I know the pains. Something is lost. No matter how attentive the authors ear - he almost inevitably has more dictionaries than humans for company.)    <BR> <BR>To be a poet in troubled times is never easy, and the 20th century was a watershed between the cultural paradigms. But I didnt see Pound writing a Vigil of Venus. Poetry is a pagan instinct, and the last line of defence of the old idols - maybe it has really run its course. But then language still needs its shepherds to protect it from the stench and spill of modern journalese, and new poems, waiting to be discovered, are still floating in that haze of unborn dreams, that is shrouding our planet. <BR> <BR>It seems Pound, with all his considerable powers, spoke too loud, and with too booming a voice, to actually sense the arrival of a new poem from limbo. He was definitely a most able translator; he had the right instincts; he knew everything there is to know about literature. So when he ultimately failed in his original poetry, it must be a deficiency of temperament, and character, and perhaps even talent. But in Personae he gives us what he could do best - to create and impersonate a persona from the stockpile of dead poets.  <BR> <BR>His impersonation of Propertius is superb, the translation of Cavalcanti and other residents from Dantes inferno is a labor of love. As for his ventures into Chinese I recommend caution. The Chinese I knew had a funny way to respond to his renditions. Alongside of Kipling, though not quite as talented, Pound is the best ventriloquist in the language. However he picked up a trifle too much from Propertius obscurity. The comparison to Pounds own Cantos is revealing.	2001-10-24
US	49534502	R31DDFNOFG0G1R	0679600086	257245869	Plutarch: Lives of Noble Grecians and Romans (Modern Library Series, Vol. 1)	Books	5	15	26	N	N	educator of the western world	After the Turks had conquered Constantinople refuges brought manuscripts of Plutarch to Italy. It was the right time. Secular scholars and enlightened clerics took a new interest in the learning of Antiquity and the Greek language. For the first time since the fall of Rome, Homer was not just a name, but actually read in the original. And Plutarchs Lives became the handbook for the European gentlemans higher education. In fact through many channels, Plutarch reintroduced the ancient concepts of republican freedom and democracy to a world that seemed to have completely forgotten that they ever existed.  <BR> <BR>Plutarch became the United States secret founding father; Thomas Jefferson and the under-signers to the constitution, they all had grown up with Plutarch on their school desks. He infused them with the spirit of democracy: For all we know, opposite parties or factions in a commonwealth, like passengers in a boat, serve to trim and balance the unsteady motions of power; whereas if they combine and come all over to one side, they cause to overset the vessel and carry down everything. And he conveyed a grasp of the larger picture: Economy, which is but money-making, when exercised over men, becomes policy.  <BR> <BR>With Plutarch, liberalism raises its voice and in Tiberius Gracchus (163-133 B.C.) speech, he recorded for us this timeless indictment of conservative values and patriotism: ... The beasts find refuge in their dens, but men who for the safety of their country expose their lives in service, breathe on borrowed air in the open day. Having no roof of their own, with wive and children, they wander from place to place. Is it not ridiculous to hear generals exhort their soldiers to fight for the hearth of their ancestors, when not any of so many Romans own altar or monument, neither have even a house to defend? They fight and they are slain, but it is for the wealth of other men. Being called masters of the world, they have not one square-inch of land to call their own. <BR> <BR>But, always the realist, and himself living under despotic rule Plutarch adds: in a time when right is weak, we may be thankful if might assumes a form of gentleness, because, (and he quotes Cato:) by nature a king is a man-eating animal. Plutarchs grasp on human nature was already very advanced, before the barbaric notion of original sin threw society back into the ethical stone age: Men by nature is not a wild animal or unsocial creature, neither was he born so, but makes himself what he naturally is not by vicious habit. He is civilized and grows gentle by a change of place, occupation, and manner of life, as wild beasts become tame and domesticated. With good reason, those who train horses and dogs, endeavour by gentle means to cure their angry and intractable tempers, rather than by cruelty and beating.  <BR> <BR>Without being an atheist, Plutarchs comment on a situation equivalent to Gen. 22:2, reveals a discerning grasp on the motives and sentiments which underpin faith into the irrational and he urges: that such a barbarous and impious obligation could not be pleasing to any Superior Being or to the father of gods and men; that it is absurd to imagine any divinities or powers taking delight in slaughter and sacrifices of men; or, if there were such, they are to be neglected as weak and unable to assist! Because such unreasonable and cruel desires can only proceed from weak and depraved minds. And: the worship most acceptable to the gods is that which comes from a cheerful heart. <BR> <BR>To fully appreciate his greatness, one has to remember, that Plutarch was neither a thinker, nor one of the great intellectual luminaries of his period - just a very bright popular writer and educator, but also a human being of integrity, culture, and a rare capacity for compassion. He influenced Western art as much as Western politics. For his dramas, Shakespeare lifted entire passages from Norths translation. And no otherwriter in all Antiquity would have cared to take notice of the dog who jumped into the sea and swam side to side with the galley which carried his family, when during the Persian war the entire population of Athens was to be evacuated to Troezen. For lack of shipping space domestic animals and pets had to be left behind. The dog didnt quite make it and drowned short of the shores of Salamis.  <BR> <BR>Often Plutarch conveys a sense of wellbeing, of a Golden Age, and he still holds his sway over our imagination. The most interesting chapter for anthropologists, is the portrayal of Lycurgus and his laws. Himself a product of a patriarchal society, Plutarch had not a clue, that his accurate description of Spartan customs, would depict one of the last matriarchal societies that had survived the coup de tat of the patriarchs. Utopian fantasies often become the excuse for totalitarian atrocities on dissenting minds - Plutarch was never part of the posse. But I remember him best for the little story about a freight-galley sailing in a moonlit night leeward of the Aegean coast, when the sailors suddenly heard a voice carrying over from the near by shore: Travellers, tell the Corinthians, the Great Pan is dead.  <BR> <BR>Plutarch was a loving husband and father, an incorruptible administrator and conscientious ambassador for his people, a humanist and a model for liberalism ever since. There are books you want to have in your briefcase if that is all you are allowed to carry away from disaster and war; books that keep you company in your most difficult hour. Plutarchs Lives is definitely one of them. It had been of tremendous influence, but unlike the Bible, of a wholesome and humanizing influence. Mommsen called Plutarch mellow and sweet as the honey from Mount Hymettos. Who is to say, that ancient paganism had nothing to contribute to the modern world?	2001-10-22
US	49534502	R6VW930VMXOVS	0393972836	551860371	Moby-Dick (Second Edition)  (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	9	14	N	N	an American trauma	Reading Moby Dick for the first time should make us realize that English is a real language, and not just a verbal substitute for flag-signals. I know how this must sound for an English speaker - no offence intended. People with a bilingual upbringing, with Russian, German, Spanish, French at the side, know what I mean. It is the gift the mono-lingual is taking for granted. Multilingual people probably can never grasp what it means to completely saturate your temperament and persona in the verbal magic of linguistic perceptions. But they may have traded it for a heightened awareness of the complexity of linguistic interfacing with our world and our ideas. <BR> <BR>Even people who introduce themselves as professional writers sometimes complain of what they perceive as MelvilleÕs cloying style, especially in the chapter on the WhaleÕs whiteness. But there is a lot more in it than Òthat, although white is frequently considered a good color, in the case of Moby Dick, it is a bad one, because instead of being reminiscent of purity, it is reminiscent of spectrality on no less than seven and a half pages, including a 469 word sentence.Ó With all due respect, if cut and dry ÒmessageÓ is all there is to imaginative literature, than it would not be worth bothering about. Forget the lengthy reflections, forget about plot interest, the Anglo-Saxon readerÕs favorite obsession, even leave the character cast alone, they are weirdos anyway, every single one of them - Moby Dick is not the kind of book where these things matter. <BR> <BR>Instead focus on the intensity of a dream. Accept the exotic symbols of an alien world, as alien as the Planet ÒShakespeare.Ó Accept the warped logic of a nightmare. Yet this is not likely how the product of an American high school education is to receive MelvilleÕs gift to his nation. Not before somebody points out the similarities between Melville and Kafka. For such reader, literature hasnÕt moved an inch since the Vikings had landed atthe shores of Newfoundland. But should you feel ready to commit yourselves to Rabelais, then you are ready for Melville, because you have reached the point where opinions are no longer taken seriously. Only the mentally adolescent is opinionated, and literally billions of adolescents crawl this plantÕs surface, like lice on a bald midget. Opinions are cheap, everybody can share from his haversack.  <BR> <BR>However there are things even I rather not see in a book of this nature. Sensitivity, style, rhythm and visualizations are the meat of a poem, great ideas are hogwash. Moby Dick is a prose poem, not an investigative report on the whaling industry. But Melville does not always exactly know where he is going. We know from his letters and messages to Nathaniel Hawthorn, that at times this book had carried away the author. Automatic writing is not exactly my cup of tea, and I suspect, MelvilleÕs absolutely stunning stylistic abilities, cover up a lot of this sort of thing, and I am troubled by MelvilleÕs archaisms. It can be as irritating as in KiplingÕs ÒKim.Ó I just canÕt see people talk like that, at least not people of that period. As a biblical flourish, this kind of rhetorics is just preposterous. <BR> <BR>So what is going on here? An Einsteinian time dilation between (former) colonials and motherland? Or a case of Shakespearean intoxication? And yet who fails to be charmed by: ÒTwas rehearsed by thee and me a billion years before this ocean rolled;Ó (task: design at least two or three alternative and complete cosmologies to fit this sentence) or: ÒAll wars are boyish and are fought by boys, the champions and enthusiasts of the state;Ó or the almost Virgilian ÒCharmed circle of everlasting DecemberÓ that continues to Ògoing through young lifeÕs old routine again;Ó and notices that Ò... on the heel of all this ... a cluster of dark nods repliedÓ to Òbisons with clouds of thunder on his scowling browÓ - if that can leave you untouched, go shoot yourself. <br />If an entire universe can be captured between two book-covers, this is it. A fairy tale, cruel, heroic on the verge of the burlesque, full of hidden gateways to a different matrix in the configuration of things. The whale hunt and AhabÕs hunt for revenge are really the least interesting aspects in this book. But of course one has to know where to look, and I am afraid few are prepared for such examination of the unexpected. Melville was not the type of writer who speaks in bumper stickers nor did he spew fortune cookies (apparently the language of democracy these days.) This accomplishment he left to giggle-peppered sitcoms and squeal-fests with a sprinkle of - whatÕs the word? - Òspirituality,Ó such as OprahÕs show.  <BR> <BR>Oh, and ÒCall me IshmaelÓ is the most perfect opening sentence of any novel. Nothing ever has surpassed it. Melville gave us the bible of symbolism, but when we try deciphering, we find ourselves confounded by tantalizing signals from deep space - sometimes garbled but always of an overwhelming beauty. This is the word BEFORE the beginning, and before it became flesh.	2001-10-10
US	49534502	RIRA2NX4OVF1F	0943914558	393799017	Plotinus: The Enneads (LP Classic Reprint Series)	Books	5	25	38	N	N	the ultimate sky-hook	Readers of mine may notice that I rarely speak of fiction and prefer the term \\"imaginative literature.\\" Plotinus, by trade, was a philosopher, and some of the greatest in his profession, apart from unusual powers of reasoning, are not exactly conspicuous for their imagination. But others did great and displayed fertile imagination and linguistic felicity. Even if totally refuted in a strictly philosophical sense, their work remains to be a source of inspiration and a joy to read.  <BR> <BR>Plotinus began publishing in the advanced age of 49. His work became the hidden nursery of Christian theology; something he certainly didn't intend. The Christian apologist Tatian, in his address \\"Against the Greeks,\\" expressed an increasingly popular sentiment when he said: \\"I am not to worship God's creation made for our use. The Sun and the Moon were made on our account. How then shall I worship my own ministers?\\" Plotinus, usually never shrill, replied in strong terms: <BR> <BR>\\"Human temerity is only too willing to accept such grandiloquent ravings. The simple folks hear: 'People whose worship is inherited from antiquity are not His children - you are!'  So you address the lowest of men as brothers, but you deny this courtesy to the Sun and disown your ties with the Cosmos?\\" Plotinus created the last great synthesis of antique philosophy. It combined Plato's theory of Ideas with a doctrine of emanation, a constant flux of creative energy from the primeval One through several agencies all the way down to humans, animals, and matter in various states of lesser reality.  <BR> <BR>In this vision even the polytheistic pantheon participates in the ultimately undivided unity of the cause for our existence. Plotinus' reasoning is not difficult to follow, but for us modern semi-barbarians, his discerning subtlety often seems to verge on empty verbiage. However the basic premise is endearingly simple: \\"It is unity that makes a being. The members of every plant and animal form a unity;separation means loss of existence.\\" History has been written by the victorious, so our views reflect the dim opinions of paganism's worst enemy; but let me assure you, in their days, the Pagans had the better thinkers on their side.  <BR> <BR>So, once in the saddle, Christians went on the offensive. Egged on by their bishop, Alexandria's mob flayed alive the philosopher Hypathia in her own lecture-hall, because she was a mathematician, a philosopher, a pagan, and - what in the eyes of her Christian opponents was her worst sin - a woman. Two centuries later, Emperor Justinian, the bigot, switched off the lights, and drove Athen's last philosophers into exile. It took a treaty with foreign powers, that the last pagan intellectuals got permission to go home to their families and end their lives in peace and darkness. <BR> <BR>Plotinus was always honest about the possibility to actually get it wrong: \\"Consider sense knowledge: its objects seem most patently artified, yet the doubt remains whether the apparent reality may not lie in the states of the percipient rather than in the material before him.\\" He even seems to have anticipated the modern concept of gravity: \\"The heavens, by their nature, will either be motionless or move by circle; all other movement indicates outside compulsion.\\" <BR> <BR>In a series of papers from 1969-1978, Professor Robert Fischer (not the chess-champion) made explicit reference to Plotinus' description of his mystical ecstasy. Based on controlled experiments with mind-enhancing substances, Fischer mapped out an ascending continuum of nervous arousal that bridges the state of meditative torpor on one end with the surrender to white hot hysteria on the other. Such ecstasy occurs when amphetamine or LSD or some kind of prayer discipline breach the amnesic state boundaries, that structure our layers of memory, and causes an overload of data which freezes the mental \\"hard drive.\\" <BR> <BR>In Plotinus' own words: \\"Abandon the duality of seer andseen, and count both as one, so that he in its vision does not distinguish, nor even imagines a duality. He has changed, does no longer own himself, but belongs to the One, a center in sync with the center. He will behold a solitary light suddenly revealing itself - not from some perceived object, but pure and self-contained. We must not enquire its origin, for there is no &quot;origin.&quot; The primal One does not come on cue, it is not like one who enters, but who is eternally present. Like one who has entered the temple's inner sanctuary and left the images behind, the self is perfectly still and alone. This is liberation from the alien that besets us here ...\\" <BR> <BR>Plotinus enjoyed this experience only four times in the five or six years that his biographer Porphyry knew him. Given the choice, I am not quite sure, whether I really would like to relinquish my distance as separate observer, but it is a noted fact, that everyone who ever \\"returned\\" from the bright light of such schizoid stupor (which includes so called \\"near death experiences\\") did so with deep regret. It is a fact of our empirical existence, though not effected by some numinous sky hook, as Plotinus would like us to think. Still, the most fantastic of all philosophies could actually be the most realistic description of the intellect and its evolution, to date. <BR> <BR>\\"The Universe is organized, effective, complex, lavish, but it cannot be at once symbol and reality. As we look upon the world, its vastness and beauty and the order of its eternal march, and think of the gods seen and hidden, and the life of animal and plant, let us ascend to its archetype, to the yet more authentic sphere of unsoiled intelligence. That archetypal world is the true Golden Age, age of Kronos, who is the Intellectual-Principle, the exuberance of the One.\\" Paganism at its best.	2001-10-10
US	49534502	R270YJTQNL619Y	0679726691	265445097	The Collected Poems of Wallace Stevens	Books	5	4	8	N	N	a shepherd of the language	He will never be a popular poet in his nation. His beginnings did show more expertise than talent; the urge to spew message seemed irresistible: ÒLike a dull scholar, I behold, in love, / An ancient aspect touching a new mind;Ó ÒPoetry is the supreme fiction, madame;Ó ÒBeauty is momentary in the mind -Ó if this would have been all he could do; nobody would care to remember him. But once his first lines took notice of ÒThe exceeding brightness of this early sun ...Ó the poet had found his pace. <br /> <BR>In his century, Wallace Stevens is one of the 5 leading poets native to America - I would rank him ahead of Marianne Moore, Hart Crane, T. S. Eliot and Ezra Pound as the breathless runner up. None of these people can hold the candle to W. H. Auden, but then, Auden was not a native. But how important is it anyway for a nation to have great poets to her credit? Judged by the reception of poetry in America, not very much. I know people who take courses in creative writing, because they come cheaper than a therapist. <BR> <BR>To be a poet in troubled times is never easy, and the 20th century was a watershed between the cultural paradigms. Poetry is a pagan instinct, a last line of defence of the old idols - maybe it has really run its course. But then language still needs its shepherds to protect it from the stench and spill of modern journalese and Òmessages from our sponsor,Ó and new poems, waiting to be discovered, are still floating in that haze of unborn dreams, that is shrouding our planet. Over the years, Stevens became a very conscientious shepherd: <BR> <BR>A few things for themselves, / Convolvulus and coral, / Buzzards and live-moss, / Tiestas from the keys, / A few things for themselves, / Florida, venereal soil, / Disclose to the lover. // The dreadful sundry of this world, / The Cuban, Polodowsky, / The Mexican women, / The Negro undertaker / Killing the time between corpses / Fishing for crayfish... / Virgin of boorish births, // Swiftly in thenights, / In the porches of Key West, / Behind the bougainvilleas, / After the guitar is asleep, / Lasciviously as the wind, / You come tormenting, / Insatiable, // When you might sit, / A scholar of darkness, / Sequestered over the sea, / Wearing a clear tiara / Of red and blue and red, / Sparkling, solitary, still, / In the high sea-shadow. // Donna, donna, dark, / Stooping in indigo gown / And cloudy constellations, / Conceal yourself or disclose / Fewest things to the lover --- / A hand that bears a thick-leaved fruit, / A pungent bloom against your shade. <BR> <BR>Or:  <BR> <BR>I. Complacencies of the peignoir, and late / Coffee and oranges in a sunny chair, / And the green freedom of a cockatoo / Upon a rug mingle to dissipate / The holy hush of ancient sacrifice. / She dreams a little, and she feels the dark / Encroachment of that old catastrophe, / As a calm darkness among water-lights. / The pungent oranges and bright, green wings / Seem things in some procession of the dead, / Winding across wide water, without sound. / The day is like wide water, without sound, / Stilled for the passing of her dreaming feet / Over the seas, to silent Palestine, / Dominion of the blood and sepulchre. .  <BR> <BR>II. Why should she give her bounty to the dead? / What is divinity if it can come / Only in silent shadows and in dreams? / Shall she not find in comforts of the sun, / In pungent fruit and bright, green wings, or else / In any balm or beauty of the earth, / Things to be cherished like the thought of heaven? /Divinity must live within herself: / Passions of rain, or moods in falling snow; / Grievings in loneliness, or unsubdued / Elations when the forest blooms; gusty / Emotions on wet roads on autumn nights; / All pleasures and all pains, remembering / The bough of summer and the winter branch. / These are the measures destined for her soul. ...Ó [...]  <BR> <BR>VI. ÒIs there no change of death in paradise? / Does ripe fruit never fall? Or do the boughs / Hang always heavy in that perfect sky, / Unchanging, yet so like our perishing earth, / With rivers like our own that seek for seas / They never find, the same receding shores / That never touch with inarticulate pang? / Why set the pear upon those river-banks / Or spice the shores with odors of the plum? / Alas, that they should wear our colors there, / The silken weavings of our afternoons, / And pick the strings of our insipid lutes! / Death is the mother of beauty, mystical, / Within whose burning bosom we devise / Our earthly mothers waiting, sleeplessly. ...Ó [...] <BR> <BR>It seems StevensÕ gift to America is a  sanctuary for language and meditation ... so far!	2001-10-09
US	49534502	R3ROX4IMWAQSHB	0679423036	921116695	Collected Stories (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	27	38	N	N	the Muir's in tux and bow tie	Check Your Review of <BR>Collected Stories (Everyman's Library) <BR>by Franz Kafka, et al  <BR> <BR>Here is your review the way it will appear:  <BR> <BR> =  the Muir's in tux and bow tie <BR>Reviewer: Michael Sympson from Florida <BR>It has become customary for a current translator to preface his production with a little critique of his predecessors, especially the Muirs  after all we are not supposed to put our light under a bushel, but just between you and me: a great translator is just as rare as a great author, there might be billions and quadrillions of stars in the Universe, but the nights are still dark and the zodiac shows the same old signs since the countdown began at 11.00 am on Sunday, April 27th, 3877 BC. (central European time). Perhaps if the pay would be better there would be more stars in the firmament over Grub street.  <BR> <BR>So, since this is not the best of all worlds, only the best of all possible worlds, if not the only possible world, we better brace ourselves for surprises when a latter day translator of some repute allows to compare the &quot;Country Doctor,&quot; perhaps Kafka's finest achievement, in his new version, with the established rendition of the Muirs. The very first sentence draws the line. Neugroshel (The Metamorphosis, in the Penal Colony, and Other Stories) thinks he knows better than the author and trims the sentence to bite-size:  <BR> <BR>&quot;I was in a great predicament: an urgent trip lay ahead of me; a dangerously ill patient awaited me in a village ten leagues away; a heavy blizzard filled the vast space between me and him; I did have a wagon, lightweight, with large wheels, just the right kind of wagon for our country roads. Bundled up in my fur coat, holding my instrument bag, I stood in the courtyard, ready to travel; but the horse was lacking, the horse.&quot; But Kafka didnt write for the Toronto Star and felt no obligation to chop his sentences to anemic tidbits for the weak digestion. The Muirs thought so too:  <BR> <BR>&quot;I was in great perplexity, I had to start an urgent journey; a seriously ill patient was waiting for me in a village ten miles off; a thick blizzard of snow filled all the wide spaces between him and me; I had a gig, a light gig with big wheels, exactly right for our country roads; muffled in furs, my bag of instruments in my hand, I was in the courtyard all ready for the journey; but there was no horse to be had, no horse.&quot; Perhaps not the choice of words, but syntax and rhythm are incomparably closer to the original; in fact, this sentence alone deserves to be copyrighted for eternity and should oblige every succeeding translator to quote the Muirs. And why stop with the first sentence? The entire story is coming across splendidly. And by the way, the doctor used a gig, not a wagon, Mr. Neugroschel.  <BR> <BR>Every author creates his own pedigree says Jorge Luis Borges; and we know from Kafkas own testimony whom he had chosen as his models. Charles Dickens white hot fusion of language and imagery left its mark on America; Flaubert taught Kafka the discipline to say extraordinary things in ordinary language and seek for the one befitting word; and late in his life, Heinrich von Kleists marvellous economy of structure and style left an indelible impression on Kafka. To some extent, Kafka even appreciated Friedrich Nietzsche. Just recall the rants and paragraphs of endless to-and-fro soliloquies in legalese, Kafkas variety of the interior monologue.  <BR> <BR>Such were, what Kafka himself had recognized as formative influences. His friend Max Brod however, preferred to add Kierkegaard to this list and to belittle Nietzsche. Brods view prevailed with the critics of his generation. Kafkas work drifted into the murky neighborhood of existentialism and of nebulous metaphysics for the secular seeker. For most critics and many readers, Kafka had turned from an artist to a saint. Regrettably the Muirs picked up on this trend andthis sometimes slanted their choices in the phrasing - notice I had to start an urgent journey ... : Neugroschel was right to play it down in his rendition. Against all appearances, Kafka is not a latter day John Bunyan. <BR> <BR>According to Stephen King (you are right, how could I sink so low) the two most important ingredients of fiction are empathy (the readers) and the ability to hypnotize (on the authors part). The man is right, and Kafka does possess hypnotic powers if the reader is willing to yield to his magic. Kafkas stories are dreams, not more real than fairy tales, and full of symbols as confusing as in a nightmare. The Muirs had enough artistic instinct to actually perceive that, and all things considered, produced a translation, which will remain the standard for still a very long time to come.	2001-10-08
US	49534502	RQ3FZXOXDKVNT	0385494114	322130850	Papal Sin: Structures of Deceit	Books	2	7	28	N	N	outrage or decoy?	So one Pope died in child birth, another in the bed of his married mistress. The Borgia Pope had 61 children and in his spare time he managed to poison a couple of people before the poison got through to him. So what? I really couldnt care less, even if the Church as institution wouldnt be what it is and always had been. In fact to be blunt, I consider Willis book as a typical diversion from the real issue. I shall not hold it against the men of the cloth, that they are human and behaved as human beings - even if one or the other behaved more like a pathological serial killer. The Church is an old firm, the oldest around. Old institutions have old cabinets full of old skeletons. They shouldnt. But they do. Its the way things go in this fallen world. Soon there will be more cabinets.  <BR> <BR>So before concerned Catholics and less concerned infidels fall for the decoy, lets consider the real issue. It is by her fruits that we come to know the ways of the Church. How well the Church is keeping her own house in order is family business and not our concern. So when even an apologet feels compelled to find fault with the Churchs conduct over such a long period, shouldnt we rather wonder how it is that so many generations of learned and intelligent functionaries could have been so consistent in getting it wrong? Shouldnt we scrutinize the rationale behind their conduct a bit closer? Perhaps we may discover that they hadnt got it wrong after all. Only we are misled to expect from the Church something she wasnt meant to deliver?	2001-09-25
US	49534502	R270GUBDGLW9P	0679405682	976358997	Bleak House (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	A precursor of symbolism	When I read the first book of Dickens I must have been seven or eight. I never was into childrenÕs books and insisted on reading Oliver Twist. I also had the measles and ran a high fever, a fatal combination, especially when Fagin sends his little troopers into your dreams. My mother took away the book and my life was saved. But somehow this has affected my entire attitude when it comes to Dickens, even after full recovery. I saw nothing of his humor and everything of his depressive gloom. I wouldnÕt touch a book of his with tongs. Over the years this became a ridiculous phobia.<br /><br />Then one day I made the acquaintance of a London spinster who herself could have jumped straight out of one of DickensÕ novels. You know, the bony type with a shrill laughter, but a warrior before the gin bottle. She had an uncanny eye for the idiosyncrasies and little ticks of almost each and everyone and she pointed out to me the whole collection of Dickensian characters walking past the window. These days Mr. Podsnap works on the stock exchange and his flourish still comes handy when the Dow Johnes is dropping. With the help of this good lady I have seen the PickwickÕs whole cast walking the streets in the flesh. It is a gift, and I wish I had it. I decided to have another go at Dickens.<br /><br />Regardless of genre, there are two types of imaginative literature. Stand-up routines and pieces that try to convey something. Both are legitimate, but personally I prefer the latter. Coming to think of it, as a stand-up routine even &Ograve;Ulysses&Oacute; might actually be salvageable. Anyway, Dickens is definitely the stand-up comedian, and he and Shakespeare have this in common, that one reads them both mainly for their turn of phrase. Take away the phrasing from Shakespeare and we are left with pretty silly anecdotes and downright ludicrous nonsense. Denude Dickens of his language and the man presents himself as a pretty ordinary dime novelist.<br /><br />Seriously! Can you nameeven one of DickensÕ novels you would read for its jaw-dropping thrills? ... Thought so. But I learned to like Dickens, because his &Ograve;novels&Oacute; are really sheer poetry, prose-poems of three decker tome size which outshine everything that any poet of the period had written, including Browning and Hopkins. None even remotely has achieved DickensÕ variety of rhythm and cadence, or matches his felicity of similes and metaphors. And &Ograve;Bleak House&Oacute; is certainly a lonely peak even within DickensÕ own production. Just listen to this (make sure you are not running a fever):<br /><br />&Ograve;... , these tumbling tenements contain, by night, a swarm of misery. As, on the ruined human wretch, vermin parasites appear, so these ruined shelters have bred a crowd of foul existence that crawls in and out of gaps in walls and boards; and coils itself to sleep, in maggot numbers, where the rain drips in; and comes and goes, fetching and carrying fever, and sowing more evil in every footprint than Lord Coodle, and Sir Thomas Doodle, and the Duke of Foodle, and all the fine gentlemen in office, down to Zoodle, shall set right in five hundred years--though born expressly to do it.&Oacute;<br /><br />Disgustingly brilliant and highly symbolic! Well that is Dickens. He is one of the few epic geniuses who we gladly forgive that their style is more of a player than a conveyor. No matter which page we turn, it is always Dickens and nothing but Dickens. But what about incident and character? ShouldnÕt we expect a collection of caricatures in DaumierÕs fashion? Not in Bleak House - the ghostly cast walking the foggy streets is of flesh and blood or some other juice, but walk they do and convincingly.<br /><br />Less convincing though are the incidents and concerns. The judicial system which Dickens appeared to criticize was already outdated in DickensÕ own era by at least three decades; the law suit in &quot;Bleak House&quot; is based on a dim memory from the authorÕschildhood. Many social issues of poverty and poor public housing touched in the book had already been taken care of by a number of reform acts. When Dickens published his novel, London had just opened to the public the first tunnels for a new underground transport system.<br /><br />No, who means to read &Ograve;Bleak House,&Oacute; in order to bolster social conscience, better turn to EngelsÕ book on the condition of the working class in Manchester, (a must read in my opinion, but not for its literary merits.) Dickens was first and foremost an artist, and a great artist. For people who like to discuss artistic styles, &Ograve;Bleak House&Oacute; is something of a landmark: it introduces the era of symbolism. Not that Dickens had intended to do so - it came naturally to him to write like this, but what for him was an expression of his temperament, became for the generation after Dickens a new method, which in its extremes could take the shape of MallarmÕs oracular poetry.<br /><br />But this was still a far cry of a distant future. Dickens is anything but oracular. A lord of the language who all his enormous powers had funneled into &Ograve;Bleak House,&Oacute; and to such extend as we would never see again nor have seen before.	2001-09-20
US	49534502	R1EG7W9LDGHQK8	0679602321	247841222	A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man (Modern Library)	Books	5	4	7	N	N	beautifully emulated	When I was much younger and naive, I had read every single line of Joyce, including his letters and poems and even Finnegan's Wake (what a waste of time). I can't help it, the man was an amateur for all his life, a typical tinkerer and home improvement guy who probably never really found the kind of subject matter that could have distracted him from his self-consciousness. His short stories would barely be remembered these days if there wasnt his name under the title. They are imitation pieces, ventriloquistic exercises, and pretty flat and lifeless if held against Chekhov and Kipling, or Flaubert and Kathleen Mansfield. <BR> <BR>Joyce had his fair share of difficulties like everyone of us and at some point threw a Manuscript of 2,000 pages into the fireside. The legend goes that his sister Eileen rescued parts of it from the fire. (A similar legend surrounds the first draft of Nabokovs Lolita.) Joyce re-edited the remainders and with the help of Ezra Pound it was published under the title of A Portrait of the Artist as a Young Man. Much later the remainders of the original draft appeared as Stephen Hero. If it had survived in full it would probably have been a very long and rather insufferable autobiographical novel about a clever young man realizing that he's too good for the society into which he's been born.  <BR> <BR>An attitude the author never really changed: take for instance Nausicaa, the notorious masturbation scene in Ulysses. Superbly written as it is, it gives us the whole deficiency of Joyce in a nutshell. He imitates the presumptuous and pompous phrasing in certain fashion magazines of the period, but just tell me to what end? Is it to poke fun on the cliche beset thoughts of the crippled girl? Well I fail to see the joke, this is just cruel. Satire either attacks a subject that has the capacity to bite back, or it is merely an act of snobbery. Joyce, the writer, was a rather small character and in the sentiment of his period thought it tobe cool to be &quot;anti-philistine.&quot; <BR> <BR>Apparently &quot;Dubliners&quot; and &quot;Portrait&quot; and especially Ulysses were written by an author who went on a quest for his own style. Finnegan's Wake eventually was the place where the eagle landed. I dont think I am alone in my opinion that Joyce had landed on the most barren rock in the entire Universe. Joyce had tons of talent to burn, but something went seriously wrong here. I am all for modern art, and consider the term &quot;post modern&quot; a phony contradiction in terms. But lesser talents accomplished more - DosPassos, O'Neil, Kafka, Proust, Marianne Moore, Auden, Hemingway, Nabokov, they all have their moments, even clowns like Bukowski and Douglas Adams (who is a linguistic genius in his own right.) Borges could put in 3 lines what took a Joyce 30 strenuous pages without ever achieving a comparable impact. With one exception. <BR> <BR>If we compare the Portrait with the leftovers from Stephen Hero we can see what good editing can accomplish. Joyce was very fond of copiously scribbling in the margins of the galley proofs, so the improvements in style are probably entirely his. The overall structure though (like that of T.S. Eliots Wasteland) might be based on suggestions by Ezra Pound. Pound also helped Joyce to find a publisher for the Portrait. It was the time when Joyce had been in his Flaubertian phase and emulated the Frenchmans method to present events strictly from the protagonists perspective and in terms of the characters faculties of perception. And what an emulation it is. <BR> <BR>Style is the most direct access to an artists temperament. Narrative style is a conveyor - only in essays and poems style is allowed to be a player. Approaching Joyce is an experience not dissimilar to The Approach to Al-Mutasim. After crossing through all the veils we step into an entirely empty room, like the Holy of Holies in the Jewish temple. Beyond the private circle of his life, Joyce had nothing to say. Catholicism and Thomas Aquinas philosophy leave you badly prepared, not only for the second law of thermodynamics and Special Relativity, but for democracy, a truly free Ireland, or sex with your wife, and life in general. <BR> <BR>Only in the Portrait Joyce managed to bring all the pieces together, and though I must say, that the throes of adolescence in the clutches of Catholicisms screwed morality and hygiene make not exactly my favorite read, what counts is HOW Joyce brings across his story. And he does it brilliantly. The book is full of flavors and sensuality. We hear the dull thud of the wet leather ball on the rugby pitch, shiver in the clammy dormitory, feel the slight vertigo of Stephens trance in the rocking train compartment. All this is fine writing except for the first part, when Joyce attempted to reproduce the mind-set of a small boy.  <BR> <BR>His choice of words comes a tat too cute and betrays the condescending adult. Joyce was certainly not a Tolstoy, even not a Kipling. Nabokovs Speak Memory is a fine description of early childhood that respects the child. Joyce of course had no intention to glorify this particular childhood, or to be objective. He wrote out of his bitterness of something to be left behind, and the sooner the better. So the ventriloquism sometimes comes on a false note. Still with all these minor flaws, this is a major novel in the language and must read for the aspiring author.	2001-09-07
US	49534502	R1038RYMX2VT2U	0811200086	255750004	Primal Vision: Selected Prose & Poetry	Books	4	27	28	N	N	a flawed genius	At present I am translating for an English publisher a collection of poetry and prose by Gottfried Benn. So I am familiar with the title piece Primal Vision or Urgesicht. It is one of the pieces I have excluded from my collection, and here is why: It is very hard to translate. As a linguist, I am not afraid of the sheer difficulty, but there is also an other aspect. Translating imaginative literature is not like translating for the United Nations. There are 2 major barriers: an unfamiliar language and unfamiliar conventions of style. The problem is to translate faithfully without producing something too outlandish to be acceptable for the English/American reader.  <BR> <BR>Benns Primal Vision is hard to categorize - it is not a story, but it also is not like the explanatory prose for an essay. At best we should think of it as a verbal collage or a prose poem in Rimbauds vein. There is a line of thought behind it - or rather an obsession, one of Benns pet-hates. It is a powerful expression of the authors disgust with the empirical realism of modern science (written by an extremely well trained scientist) and also expresses a for the time very common sentiment of disappointment with rationalism and neo-Kantian idealism. Plenty of -isms. But none of this shows on the glittering surface created by one of the great linguistic geniuses in his language. <BR> <BR>Benn had a small but devoted following in France, way back in the nineteen twentieth. He was credited to be one of the 4 major poets of his time in the whole of Europe. In his own country he was less appreciated, but still acknowledged as one of the leading intellectuals before 1933. Then came Hitler and Benn fell into the trap of his own irrationalism. He found the vulgarity of the Nazis despicable, and he certainly was no anti-Semite, but he agreed on a particularly nasty point, little debated, if at all, that made him a Nazi-sympathizer even after 1945: Benn was a physician by profession, he had a profound understanding of genetics and at least since 1930 his work is laced with approving remarks on eugenic policies, policies which in the hands of the Nazis meant mercy killings of the mentally impaired and mandatory castration of carriers with hereditary diseases. Benn himself had a sister suffering from hereditary glaucoma and he was convinced that even his own family had to be cut off from the gene pool.  <BR> <BR>The result was Benns very public commitment to the Nazis after 1933. It immediately ruined his international reputation and alienated him from most of his friends, of which many had fled into exile. However the new masters smelled a rat. Benn was too intellectual, too sharp, too cynical for their taste; his publications before 1933 contained passages of what could be interpreted as liberal (read his essay on abortion) and lax on morals. Benns unflinching view on the facts of biological life earned him the denigration of a pervert and sodomite. As a doctor he was stricken from the list of G.Ps. entitled to write subscriptions under the national health insurance act - which was tantamount to professional suicide. As an author he was still able to publish until 1938; then official censorship put an end to his literary career as well. Benn retreated into army service in the rank of a colonel in the medical corps. In this function he produced a study on the causes of suicide. Had this study sent the wrong message, widows of war veterans who had committed suicide could have lost their pensions. Benn knew this, and he argued therefore, that suicide is a completely spontaneous act out of a moments inspiration. The widows continued to receive their pensions. <BR> <BR>After the war Benn regained part of his literary reputation, but he never recanted the views that made him commit his political boo-boo in the first place - a fact conveniently glossed over by his admirers. Primal Vision contains all the seeds and intellectual props which led to Benns downfall, but they are  so thoroughly embedded in Benns dazzling rhetorics that it passed unnoticed. It is a brilliance that obscures the real issues under a veneer of an elitist but hollow art-philosophy which in its days had been influential for more than half a century. Benn was a great talent and the living example that even genius is no protection against flaws of character.	2001-09-06
US	49534502	R3OZHX1YXTDYVI	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	1	7	30	N	N	The human factor	One reviewer mentioned &Ograve;human nature&Oacute; as an explanation for atrocities in general. It doesnÕt really wash. People act the way they act because they are told to do so. As a rule people prefer &Ograve;to follow orders&Oacute; and knowing to have the law on your side is even better. Do I really need to remind of the &Ograve;torture-box experiments?&Oacute; It took a chairman Mao to unleash the appalling episodes in the cultural revolution. Even battle hardened conquistadors and crusaders asked for absolution after a massacre and for indulgences before.  I have no illusions about human wickedness, but this doesnÕt change the fact that a catalyst is needed to put it in motion and biblical religion, Islam, and the Catholic Church have proven to be the most effective catalysts prior to the introduction of nationalism and modern political ideologies. Few institutions influenced so profoundly secular legislation and our views on right and wrong as the Catholic Church. Only in times of political impotence the leopard hid his spots and covered up with rhetorical exercises to the tune of &Ograve;in brennender Sorge.&Oacute;  But at the exact same time in occupied Yugoslavia, when public opinion had other things on its mind, the papal legate actively participated in the massacres of Greek Catholics. The recent events in former Yugoslavia are a late aftershock of the Ustashi murders in the early 1940s. The Catholic church is too big an organization, too old, and politically too wise, to play her cards off hand. But historyÕs verdict is: &Ograve;guilty as charged.&Oacute;	2001-07-26
US	49534502	R2V01XDBJCIPNR	0300080034	977917288	Belief in God in an Age of Science (The Terry Lectures Series)	Books	1	12	77	N	N	Presumptuous and verbose	I have a simple question: can anybody show me a single scientific discovery that had been based on the hypothesis that there is a God? Just one? I am not talking about a scientists individual motivation - which can be anything, even to look into the mind of God (Hawking). No, I am talking about the procedure of going from a hypothesis to a mathematical model and then to the experiments which check on the predictions of the model and establish the facts that result from such trials. So, was there ever a hypothesis that included God in the master-equation and actually yielded science? Well? I am listening ... thought so. There is obviously a difference between actually doing science and the appropriation of science for screwed up metaphors, in order to rationalize an irrational urge to believe.     Recently I heard a &quot;reborn&quot; ex-scientist referring to the 2nd law of thermodynamics to explain her newfound faith in &quot;creation.&quot; The law states, that in a closed system the amount of entropy increases to a point where all energy comes to rest in an equilibrium. So hot gas molecules in a closed chamber initially clump together and drift in clouds before they evenly distribute and cool down. From a state of lower entropy we progress towards maximum entropy. The 2nd laws application is universal and goes from steam engines to the entire Universe, it is the reason why time has a one way direction. But everyday parlance, in a completely arbitrary fashion, likes to term the two states as &quot;ordered&quot; and &quot;chaotic,&quot; meaning that over time there is a gradual increase of disorder.     Strange what the urge to believe can do to your faculties of reasoning. The reborn believer claimed compatibility of the 2nd law with the Bible account of creation. I was puzzled. The 2nd verse of Genesis says: the earth was without form, and void; and darkness was upon the face of the deep ... , or as the Hebraic bible says, everything was a tohubohu,a great chaos. Not a single notion of a state of order in the beginning. It seems, man just cant bear the thought to be a mere sideshow. In our egotism we require a God who is exclusively concerned with us; we would rather accept hell than our own insignificance. In Sir Winston Churchills words: ... if there is no God and we are snuffed out like candles, then there is no point to anything. Therefore I believe ... . Of course, an infidels urge to disbelieve, could be just as irrational.     However, whenever in rare moments of intellectual honesty we squarely face the world, then all we can see, are widely scattered patches of knowledge, surrounded by our ignorance, which, as it so happens, is the favorite playground for religious fantasies. I am not saying that science is the only path to intellectual and spiritual integrity. Marc Aurels Meditations are a great testimony to intellectual honesty and humility in a pre-scientific age. My point is: we dont do science to find comfort, and who can claim to find comfort in the truth is a rare bird indeed. No true scientist and no true philosopher ever claims to possess a know-it-all panacea.     But religious doctrine does. That is its comfort and its lure; it unashamedly exploits the human weakness. Babies cry and thunder teaches praying, because as a species we either lack what it takes to cope with the facts of life on their own terms, or the modicum of intellect which grandmother Evolution has bestowed upon us, came for a price - the price of boredom. Bored minds try anything to fend off the bottomless void. Even an illusion, even religion! But science is science; if properly conducted, it does not depend on views and philosophies. Mr. Polkinghorne speaks for his own limitations not for an expansion into the realm of truth.     To compare science and theology as 2 equally legitimate fellow travellers toward the one cosmic reality completely overlooks that one of the 2 travellers isnt travelling atall, but more of a waylaying highwayman who waits to hijack for his own ends what the other has acquired through hard work and determined effort. Dogma always knows where it is going, but religious doctrine still has to show that it would be willing to undergo an equally rigorous test of verification and falsification as the hard sciences and surrender the keys if it fails to pass. Till then I find little more than a haze of grand words, and little sense.    In the end it all comes down to an old observation of mine: that even very good scientists usually make lousy philosophers. The question how the Universe came about is NOT really a scientific question, and skills are skills - although how to treat spouse and kids, how to cope with pain and failure are not, as one reviewer seems to think, purely matters outside of science. And even if it were true, and if indeed for literally everybody, skills of that kind are more important than scientific knowledge, it is not a substitute for truth.     Knowledge about the physical world is far from being at the most basic level - it can only be acquired after an ethical commitment to intellectual integrity, hard work, and exposure to a rigorous regimen of trials and checks. Truth doesnt come in candy wrappers and it is a sad fact that literally billions of the human race pass their life without ever facing a basic truth on their own. Books like Mr. Polkinghornes are poor and presumptuous substitutes.	2001-07-24
US	49534502	R33GWM0D6L3CHV	006060381X	278596244	When Science Meets Religion: Enemies, Strangers, or Partners?	Books	1	19	66	N	N	Wishy-washy with an agenda	Faith and science really have nothing in common, and it is science which draws the line, not on grounds of what it knows or doesn't know, but for the methodology involved to acquire this knowledge. Faith is unscientific, not because it leads to God, but because it is a bad method to build bridges. Nobody constructs even a church on nothing else but a prayer, but if you do, you better brace yourself for the consequences. It is really as simple as that. And a scientist who claims that faith and science hold common ground or could be &quot;reconciled,&quot; oversteps exactly this line and loses all his authority as a scientist. His opinions become an entirely private matter. To be scientific means, to expose yourself to a rigorous regimen of verification and falsification. This is a matter of ethics, as much as of method. But you still have to show me the religious doctrine which would be willing to undergo an equally rigorous test and surrender the keys if it fails to pass.  It is Mr. BarbourÕs contention that in the relationship between religion and science there are 4 options: firstly &Ograve;conflict,&Oacute; which the author sees to be &quot;represented by fundamentalists and scientific materialists.&quot; (This is a telling way of labelling. Telling for Mr. BarbourÕs own bias that is. Because I am not avoiding the confrontation, this makes me in the philosophical sense a materialist? How interesting.) The second option is termed &Ograve;independence&Oacute; - two languages, separate domains. A third option is termed &Ograve;dialogue,&Oacute; and the last suggestion is called &Ograve;integration.&Oacute; Well, this kind of categorizing is just a red herring: First, there is no actual conflict because the two sides are not really talking or listening to each other, hence there is no dialogue either. And if, God forbid, ever there should be an &quot;integration&quot; then this would throw us straight back to medieval scholasticism and excommunication or worse as anaccepted practice. Have we already forgotten, that for most periods in history and practically in every culture, science had been received with open hostility? And you know why? Not for its knowledge, but because science is asking questions. And what about the second &Ograve;option?&Oacute; What option? &Ograve;Independence&Oacute; is a CONDITION for doing science, not merely a choice.  Whenever faith interferes with scientific methodology, you can be sure to get bad science, either because it sets a premium on the application of its methodology or because it limits the latitude of hypothetical propositions. (Recently I heard a &quot;reborn&quot; ex-scientist using the second law of thermodynamics to explain her newfound faith in &quot;creation.&quot; It was the usual play with words. The law states, that in a closed system the amount of entropy increases to a point where all the energy comes to a rest in a state of equilibrium. So initially you have hot gas molecules clumping to clouds and drifting about in a closed chamber, which in the end will cool down and evenly distribute. From a state of low entropy we progress towards high entropy. To term the two states as &quot;chaotic&quot; and &quot;ordered&quot; is misleading and arbitrary, but it is exactly this lax use of metaphor on which people rationalize their faith.)  I mean what kind of dialogue is there anyway with institutions of which some to the present day see it as their god-given right to persecute &Ograve;heretics,&Oacute; culture, learning, science and art, whenever and wherever they happen to dissent from doctrine? Like no other institution, the Catholic Church has been - and still is - instrumental for the relentless terrorism over common peoplesÕ sexuality and the general outlook on life, as if it is a foregone conclusion that we are creatures of some metaphysically construed sin who, simply for breathing in a fallen world, are periodically required to grovel for forgiveness. Never has a political institution wielded a more powerful instrument of mind control. A scientist who willingly subjects himself to this sort of brainwash puts in question his own credibility. Who cares for a sorry figure like Teilhard de Chardin who compromised on his scientific integrity only to find himself shunned even by his own church! That's the best part! So much for dialogue! No! Doctrine and science are a contradiction in terms and there cannot be honest dialogue with doctrine, because dialogue implies a quid pro quo, which doctrine is never willing to permit.  The most dangerous enemy of scientific methodology is bias, especially if this bias comes with institutionalized means of enforcement. So the assumption that there can be &quot;dialogue&quot; between the two positions, is an illusion. It is an illusion even for the inner dialogue in a single individual's conscience. Why? Because one side has yet to show that it can be flexible on its claim to hold the monopoly on exclusive &quot;truth,&quot; while science leaves &quot;truth&quot; to the philosophy department and rather asserts &quot;facts&quot; by specific methods of enquiry and experimentation, which are to be based on hypothetical algorithms and statistical prognosis, wherever possible. It is certainly a good thing, if both sides treat each other with courtesy, but this changes nothing of the fundamental chasm - no matter how civil the behavior, the two positions remain mutually exclusive. The &quot;dialogue&quot; is an exchange of monologues in two different languages, and Mr. Barbour is not the man to act as a translator here. Coming to think of it, I begin to suspect a hidden agenda in Mr. BarbourÕs book. The spots of this leopard begin to look familiar ... .	2001-07-18
US	49534502	R3038ABOX3DE4T	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	2	7	14	N	N	2 star performance of a 5 star talent	Imaginative literature can't afford to dissociate itself from its readership because the &quot;lay-reader&quot; is the very rationale for its existence! Joyce is not a model to be followed by any writer. Granted that it is the reader's prerogative to choose and pick - it is not up to the author of imaginative literature to be selective about his readers.    This extremely gifted man had set out to surpass everything produced in literature up to his time, and if his goal had been tedium to the max, he achieved it. I am the first to give Joyce due credit for the linguistic scope and the skill with which he engineered the plot in Ulysses - but answer me honestly: does any of the characters come to live the way - say - Tolstoy manages to animate his people with a much more primitive technique? I seriously doubt it.    Joyce the human being had limitations which got in the way of Joyce the writer which prevented Joyce the artist from living up to the full potential of Joyce the talent. Style is a direct reflection of an artist's temperament - obviously the writer of &quot;Ulysses&quot; could never make up his mind what kind of style it is going to be - the book lacks unity and appears in places unnecessarily oracular due to the style, but not necessarily for the subject matter, which can be looked up in a good reference!    And if that wouldn't be bad enough, more than once Joyce went off on a rather revealing tangent: take for instance the masturbation scene in Nausicaa. Superbly written as it is, it gives us the whole deficiency of Joyce in a nutshell. He imitates the presumptuous and pompous phrasing in certain fashion magazines of the period, but just tell me to what end? Is it to poke fun on the cliche beset thought-process of the crippled girl? Well I fail to see the joke, this is just cruel. Satire either attacks a subject that has the capacity to bite back, or it is merely an act of a certain and in Joyces time very fashionable &quot;anti-philistine&quot; snobbery.    Or perhaps the only reason for writing this way was that Mr. Joyce wished to flaunt his stylistic versatility? I am not objecting to have readers making an effort to get into a difficult text - not at all. But the reward should offer better things than the gratification of a crossword puzzle. We talk about participation. Participation in the artist's temperament to see things the way they present themselves to the artist. This does not prevent us from disagreeing. (I disagree with many things Tolstoy had to say when he couldnt resist to step on his collapsible soap box. But I also appreciate his artistic genius whenever he spares us the lecture.)    To give another example: Compare Oxen of the Sun in Ulysses with the moments when women break their water in Tolstoys novels. Giving birth is not a linguistic exercise. Joyce's choice of style (in fact a display of 60 different styles and modes of speech) is just clever but completely detached from the event. What is to be expected at the very least, is a certain coherence of artistic vision, which I find utterly lacking in Joyce. He can't make up his mind, so he throws at us all the imitative bits and pieces from a (very talented) schoolboy's exercise book. Ulysses is the portfolio of a writer's versatility - it is not a work of art.    When I was much younger and naive, I had read every single line of Joyce, including his letters and poems and even Finnegan's Wake (what a waste of time). I can't help it, the man was an amateur for all his life, a typical tinkerer and home improvement guy who probably never really found the kind of subject matter that could have distracted him from his self-consciousness. His short stories wouldn't be barely remembered these days if there wasnt his name under the title. They are imitation pieces, ventriloquistic exercises, and pretty flat and lifeless if held against Chekhov and Kipling, or Flaubert and Kathleen Mansfield.    Apparently &quot;Dubliners&quot; and &quot;Portrait&quot; and especially Ulysses were written by an author who went on a quest for his own style. If Finnegan's Wake eventually was the place where the eagle landed, then, I am sorry to say, the game wasn't worth the candles. Joyce had tons of talent to burn, but something went seriously wrong here. I am all for modern art, and consider &quot;post modern&quot; a phony contradiction in terms. But lesser talents accomplished more - DosPassos, O'Neil, Kafka, Proust, Marianne Moore, Auden, Hemingway, Nabokov, they all have their moments, even clowns like Bukowski and Douglas Adams (who is a linguistic genius in his own right.) Borges could put in 3 lines what took a Joyce 30 strenuous pages without ever achieving a comparable impact.    In the end, all I ask for, is the readers honesty. Don't just think something is great because a certain establishment says so. Real great artists (like Dickens or Shakespeare) can do without this sort of approval. Don't make it a mission to reach for an icon for no other reason than seeing it hanging high. A failure is a failure even if it is a great man's failure. And Joyce wasn't made of the stuff of greatness. But this is a different story. Approaching Joyce is an experience not unsimilar to The Approach to Al-Mutasim.	2001-07-18
US	49534502	R34ZACSJRBR572	019512474X	119454775	Jesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium	Books	3	6	39	N	N	The first Millerite?	The author compares Jesus with the Millerites. I first had to read up on Millerites to understand the reference. Till then I had no idea that the Millerites are at the root of Weiko and Koresh. I know these things are as American as power-tools and apple pie - but from a European perspective this is just ... oh well. What intrigued me most, was the fact that the movement didn't die after that first prophetic flop - on the contrary, after a few quiet years came Ellen White, then Adventists and 7th day Adventists (whatever all this means - had these people no jobs?) and finally the Branch Davidians, and there are even people who still continue writing &quot;rebuttals! I am not playacting - but I was under the impression this is the twenty-first century ... .    However it IS actually quite interesting to see the pattern:    1) prophesy of a new millennium creates a movement    2) prophesy fails, movement loses support but doesn't completely collapse    3) guy or gal comes and gives it a slightly different spin    4) movement picks up again    5) movement branches out into heresies and orthodoxies.    Doesnt this look exactly like what had happened 2000 years ago with Paul impersonating Ellen White? However the indictment nailed over Jesuss head (or between his ankles as was the practice) doesnt exactly say Crucified for false Prophesy. Something seems to be wrong with the scholarly consensus on the order of the canonical gospels. In my opinion John and Mark predate Matthew and Luke and all 4 gospels deal mainly with the problem of &quot;missing (messianic) credentials.&quot; Apparently Davidic lineage was required for the messianic job-description but John and Mark don't even try to bring Davidic lineage into the equation: Jn. 7:41; 52 defends his champion against the valid objection that Jesus is neither of Davidic stock nor born in the right place. (Thats the guy history has to look for.) Mark evades the problem by referring to his heros magical prowess (Mk8:11; Lk 11:20; Mk 3:27 and parallels.) If you look at it, this is really Jesus' only defence, when asked.    In other words Davidic lineage and the genealogies in Matthew and Luke are just poppycock. In fact these 2 &quot;gospels&quot; are no gospels at all but the earliest apologies on record and meant to answer early criticism from Jews and Gentiles. Matthew is probably the last ditch attempt of a reconciliation with the Jewish communities before Bar-Kokhba, and Luke addresses the Hellenistic middlebrow who after business-hours used to read the Stoics. So you have them not only adding the Davidic lineage out of their own generosity (though badly bungling it) but they also incorporate the 'Q' document, (which makes it contemporaneous to the Gospel of Thomas) because it became necessary to present Jesus more as a (rabbinical) teacher. And to discredit myself once and for all: I consider the identification of Jesus with the illegitimate son to a Roman solder, that Syrian Archer Pantera from the Corpus inscriptionum Latinarum, XIII, 7514 (= Dessau, Inscriptiones selectae, 2571) a serious proposition. The existence of that tomb that meets all the qualifications and is one of a kind would be an awfully long shot for a mere coincidence.     So we have a Jesus who announced the arrival of the new millennium as a fact born out by his own presence. John 2:7 creates a very apt metaphor. But since nothing had really changed and John himself had trouble to fit in the execution and find an appropriate spin, ways had to be found to explain this away, such as Paul does in his letters, or Mark in his popularized account. The emphasis shifts from &quot;it has already happened because I am here&quot; to &quot;I came to warn you - the end of times is at hand, and I am the gatekeeper to salvation.&quot; Matthew and Luke address different issues, but historically it seems clear that from the very beginning Christianity focused more on Jesus's as a person than on the teaching, which might not be Jesuss teaching at all.    Which brings us to the resurrection business. Technically the transfiguration scene in Mark 9:2-10 was no different from Paul's conversion at Damascus. But I don't support conspiracy theories which suggest a staged hoax. The resurrection was first proclaimed in Galilee and within a small inner circle of loyal companions. Apart from such revival-events there is only this mix-up over an empty grave. The interment in Jerusalem in Joseph of Arimathaea's tomb was of course meant to be temporary from the beginning; the plan was to remove the body for burial in his hometown after the holidays. Joseph of Arimathaea's ad hoc intervention and offer of his own tomb suggests nothing else. The anointing of the body doesn't make much sense either, except you want to preserve it for later transport. Anointing was not really a custom, not in this period, nor in this part of the country. Obviously there was a mix-up in the communication between Jesus companions, and for some the empty grave came as a surprise, which created the rumor.    (We have archaeological evidence for such practices and even of a man who had been crucified in Jerusalem, but for interment was transported to his place of residence, where the ossuary had been excavated. It is now on display in Haifa. As an additional complication one has carefully to consider why Pilate should have released the corpse at all? The law states that a convicted criminal has to be left at the cross till the corpse has rotted away. Of course in places of very frequent executions this might not have been feasible for practical reasons. And who knows, in Jesus case there might have been danger of rioting if his corpse was kept on display like that. Anyway if you look for remains, go to Nazareth or Capernaum - but hire yourself a few good body guards or walk in bulletproof. Tallyho!)    A good conservative summary.	2001-07-15
US	49534502	R2XNL79PONR37Z	0195041518	534539500	On the True Doctrine: A Discourse Against the Christians	Books	4	27	54	N	N	Just a Thought	I am not sure who came first - Celsus or rabbinical libels - to identify Jesus as the illegitimate son to a Roman solder, a Syrian Archer Pantera. Incidentally near Bingerbr&#376;ck we excavated the tombstone of the archer Tiberius Julius Abdes Pantera (now in the Museum of Kreuznach), whose cohort had been transferred from Syria to the Rhine in 9 AD. He was born in Sidon, Phoenicia. I myself had a good look at the thing.     The fact is generally dismissed as a strange coincidence. But actually such coincidence is a rather long shot. There is this one grave that answers all the requirements, and nothing like it anywhere else. And it surfaces in the most logical place! (After the loss of 3 legions in 8 AD., Rome scraped together reinforcements from all over the empire.) Before his transfer this tribune had been stationed in Ceasaress barracks, a brisk 4 hours walk away from Jesus homestead, Nazareth.      So he may very well have known the physical mother of a physical Jesus. It would shed additional light on the anti-Jewish sentiment and the Samaritan affiliations hinted at in the gospel of John. Besides: Notice the large time gap between the libel and its \\"rebuttal!\\" If my memory serves me right Celsus wrote his attack in 178 AD. and died approximately 5 years before Origin (185-253) was born. Origin waited till 248 before he wrote his rebuttal. That's playing it rather safe, but not untypical for the way Christian apologists operated. ...Well, better than being on time and have the opposition burned alive.	2001-07-09
US	49534502	R3QT7Q0XZNHV5Q	1565633717	966682114	Eusebius' Ecclesiastical History: Complete and Unabridged	Books	3	24	63	N	N	The Bottleneck of Christian Tradition	I have a soft spot for Eusebius. This cleric came out of Diocletian's persecution alive. Survival skills he then put to good use at Constantine's court, which was a dangerous place to be, even for members of the dynasty. In the comfort of American democracy it might be hard to imagine what these circumstances can do to an individual's integrity and ambitions. But from the spot where I am coming from and who had lost relatives in the death-camps, Eusebius looks a bit like an honest Nazi. It would be as silly to reject his testimony simply because he carried the wrong membership card, as it would be silly to reject Hss's diaries as evidence for the killings in Auschwitz. As a high ranking cleric Eusebius had an obvious bias. It comes with the territory. But he did not completely lack a sense of critical insight.   After all it is Eusebius who, based on Dionysius's analysis, rejects the authenticity of \\"Revelations\\" and even names a certain Cerinthus as the actual author.! This is pretty bold, coming from a man like him, and it is reflected by Bultmanns curt treatment of Revelations in his monumental Theology of the New Testament. (See my review.) Or, to give another example, the darling of apologetic theology these days uses to be Papias's testimony,\\" which wouldn't even exist without Eusebius. But it was Eusebius who called Papias \\"... a man of very small intelligence, to judge from his books. It is interesting to see how modern scholars gingerly navigate around this verdict and stack a tower of speculations on this witness. (And what is Papias witnessing to? That he personally knew somebody who knew someone else who claimed to have seen the daughters of a nebulous apostle Phillip. Papias apparently prided himself to report hearsay and nothing but hearsay.)  So it is almost impossible to overstate the importance of Eusebius for Christian history of the first 3 centuries, because, apart from the patristic literature and earlier apolog!ists, Eusebius is practically the bottleneck of Christian traditions before Constantines edict. This is a sad fact, and we should have no illusions about the fictional character of the exodus to Pella by the Jerusalem Church after the fall of Jerusalem. However, I see no reason to doubt that the sectarians as long as they had stayed in Jerusalem, had selected their leadership from the family of their first leader. This is common practice for budding sects almost everywhere. After Mohammed's death the early Muslims recruited their leaders from the prophet's own clan. It speaks for Eusebiuss relative integrity that he felt compelled to explain the discrepancies in the Gospels genealogies. Apparently modern sceptics were not the first to put a finger on this sore.  Eusebius ascribed to the so called Arian heresy. What this meant can be expressed in one sentence: There is no God but God and Jesus is his prophet. In other words the emphasis was on Jesus human nature. Well no!t quite. This would have been the Ebionites faith, and we all know of course that Ebionites are evil heretics. Eusebius says so himself. Arius proposed a more arcane teaching that had God and the Logos (familiar from Johns gospel as the word from the beginning that turned flesh) (co-)existing from all eternity until God suddenly called into existence the Universe. Logos then took care of all the creation within the Cosmos except for the Son and mankind. This, for dessert, God Father reserved for himsel. Not what we would consider an orthodox belief these days. But by the good grace of his god, Eusebius was spared to see himself condemned (or worse) in his own lifetime. I told you he was a survivor.  My point here is not that we cannot put our trust in Eusebius alone, my point is that we have little choice. Decius and Diocletian had rounded up clerics for deportation and in a systematic fashion had collected scriptures for the shredder. Consequently we have no complete te!xt of the Christian canon from before Constantine. In fact we have barely anything complete from that period. So when the persecutions finally abated, missing scriptures needed to be replaced. The criteria and means of how this was accomplished is still a moot and little researched subject. For instance only by disassembling the fragments of Tatians Diatessaron (a harmony of the 4 canonical gospels) we get a glimpse on the state of the gospels short before 174 AD. There can be little doubt that the decades after 311 AD. had been assiduous in scriptural and apologetic fabrications of every kind and some accuse Eusebius of having participated in this industry.   I dont really know. He might, but then, he may not. One has to use critical judgement. For instance Acts 5 gives a rather typical illustration for sectarian life: With his gang of devoted thugs (the young men,) a cult-leader - Peter - enforces his rule of terror over a new sect. 2 members hold back on their contrib!utions and get the treatment for backsliding. They mysteriously die. All very plausible. Has been seen before and since. So the statement deserves some credence. The same test applied on Eusebius, will leave enough to feed an academic career. Constantines vicar was a rather bright fellow and the Tyrant knew his name. We cannot choose the time where we live; Eusebius was no exception. He survived the most severe of all persecutions, he is Antiquitys first ecclesiastic historian who has reached us intact; and if he is not trustworthy, than it is time that we say good bye to that notorious Papias as well.	2001-07-04
US	49534502	R2KUZ6A6AESSYC	0875482015	668207009	On the Fourfold Root of the Principle of Sufficient Reason (Open Court Library of Philosophy)	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Lucid and a bit quaint	It is one of the few injustices of Bertrand RussellÕs ÒHistory of Western Philosophy,Ó that he failed to appreciate SchopenhauerÕs thesis for his doctorate. But it is really one of the seminal documents that conclusively closed a debate which had begun with Descartes and included David Hume and Immanuel Kant. Schopenhauer was very much a no nonsense thinker who felt nothing but contempt for people like Hegel (his bte noir) or Fichte. He also had an open mind for the sciences, yet came a bit too early for Gregor Mendel and Darwin. So Schopenhauer proposed his famous voluntarism, a blind, but all-pervasive will behind the shifting spectre of never ending changes. In this sense Schopenhauer holds a middle position like Tycho Brahe had held between Copernicus and Kepler. It is not science yet, but already departing from the realm of pure thought.     There are many ways to understand the meaning of philosophy, but I believe Bertrand Russell had put it best: ÒIs there anything we can think of which, by the mere fact that we can think of it, is shown to exist outside of our thought? If yes is the right answer, there is a bridge from pure thought to things, if not, not.Ó SchopenhauerÕs answer to this question is fourfold, i.e. his exposition of the Òprinciple of sufficient reason,Ó and it is as good an answer, as anybody possibly could give, who puts himself under the constrains of BerkeleyÕs idealism. It is not only the epistemological core to SchopenhauerÕs own philosophy, it really takes the fundamentals through the paces and answers to David HumeÕs demolition of causality. In essence it says, that causality is a common bias in human and animal sensibility, which Ôa prioryÕ enables us to operate on our empirical sensations. It is the way how we structure the world, but not necessarily a feature of the empirical phenomena under scrutiny as Hume had already had observed. Then why does a sensibility based on the concept of causality operates so efficiently?<br />Schopenhauer is still a classical rationalist of the old school. Like his master, Immanuel Kant, instead of postulating a convenient set of inborn instincts or acquired intuitions, he prefers the premise, that there is a LOGICAL reason, a preconceived NECESSITY, for the way we slot and pigeonhole perceptions and employ our operative ideas. So how does this work in the real world? In essence Schopenhauer takes ÒperceptionÓ not to be the product of sensation, but of understanding. In other words what our senses present to our cognition is transformed by the 4 linchpins of common sense: causation, plausibility, geometry, and psychological motivation. So there is a chain of mental events: sensation is converted by an act of recognition to perception. From this it is only one logical step further to SchopenhauerÕs first premise of his mature philosophy that the world is Òmy will and representation,Ó because the Òobjective worldÓ which we naively take to be given to our senses is in fact a transformation from raw data to perception. To illustrate this point just consider how the mind compensates for mild astigmatism: the afflicted still perceives a correct picture of the object. And this is a faculty animals obviously share with us. What makes man different is merely the scope and refinement of his percepts.    Schopenhauer is at his best in his exposition of causation. By shifting it from a relationship between things to a relationship between different states of things, he shows the fallacy in HumeÕs scepticism. It is not the sun as such that melts the snow but the heat absorbed which causes a change from crystalline to liquid - 2 states of the same thing: water. This causal relationship between changes we judge to be necessary and not merely to be an incidental regularity. Our exposure to such regularities authorizes what Schopenhauer called a Òhypothetical judgementÓ or in modern parlance a Òcounterfactual inference.Ó But our absolute TRUST in such judgements comes from nowhere but from ourselves - it is a feature of our sensibility, because we actually apply it on every event we can imagine, and not just on actual experience. It makes us intuitively and a priory look for things to happen the way it is expected. (ThatÕs why modern science had such a hard time to get over the hump into quantum physics.) Schopenhauer then continues to explain the age old philosophical adage, that no thing ever comes into being or ceases to be. We observe changes. Matter, which always has existed, undergoes certain transformations; it loses certain properties and acquires others, until, at a given point, it presents itself as a flower. Eventually the flower will perish but its matter doesnÕt simply disappear. It turns to compost, thus feeding the seeds of new plants and so on in infinity, in ever changing configurations of matter. In other words, notions of a Òfirst causeÓ (and its theological implications) are dismissed as nonsense. ÒCausation,Ó Schopenhauer notes, Òis not like a hired cab which one dismisses once it has arrived at its desired destination.Ó     Modern science since Schopenhauer seems to be on a speeding train away from such quaint exposition of the works of common sense. We have entered the realm of counter-intuitive phenomena and the facts of modern physics require new logical tools. These days the more respectable section of modern philosophy occupies itself with symbolic logic and algorithms. The rest of us like to think that the world fits into our thoughts because we fit into the world, but it is a bit more complicated, and from a perspective of classical idealism, SchopenhauerÕs thesis presents in a style of great lucidity the final summation for the way the world corresponds with our perception.	2001-06-21
US	49534502	R2DVF1TT88EOGO	0452010055	121900974	The Satyricon (Meridian Classics)	Books	5	33	38	N	N	Scraps of naughty readers	The Satyricon has reached us in a particularly bad shape, but it is not the only ancient text that makes you wonder whether its author, if he could rise from the dead, would be able to identify his own work from the concoctions of modern scholarship! Often the archetype for our endeavor is already removed from the original script by many centuries, and who knows whether the authors own script had been free of errors. Even on papyrus, to produce a manuscript was slow and costly. Before the invention of the codex, scrolls in some cases could be a heavy and cumbersome affair of 90 ft. in length and up to 30 pounds of weight. Once a column had disappeared in the interior of such scroll, the author would be very reluctant to go through the trouble of unscrolling, if he could help it. So for his cross-references he would rather trust his memory, and of course nobody even considered making an index, because for scrolled material it is practically useless. It makes only sense if you can go between single pages.      Worst of all, we look at a book that in all likelihood had never been disseminated very widely. Most copies seem to have been private notes, taken from the text with little regard of context. Since it is a frank and unashamedly lewd text, most copyists, like naughty schoolboys, copied out only the juicy bits for God knows what use. This has saddled the modern reader with a collection of snippets in a very sorry condition, which under-represents the entire text by 90% and over-represents the sex in it by 100%. Of reportedly some 20 books, only portions of book 14, 15, and 16 have survived in loose snippets from all over Europe, but nobody has yet established an undisputed order for all the fragments. For all we know, prior to the surviving part, the story starts at Marseilles. The first person narrator Encolpius, for unknown reasons, had fallen foul of the god Priapus and goes on a quest to regain his errection. He may had been exiled from the city (after a years entertainment at public expense) or ran away from the plague, travels by sea to Italy and at some point is rescued from the gladiatorial arena in Rome.     Freeloading and thieving, Encolpius moves down through Italy, until a Tarentine ship owner, Lichas, is attracted to him and picks him up. Encolpius however seduces Lichas wife and commits some terrible outrage on his benefactor in the porticus of Hercules at Baiae, a famous pleasure resort in south Italy. He also steals the robe and rattle of the goddess Isis from Lichas ship. About the same time, the famous courtesan Tryphaena becomes his mistress in a love triangle between him, her, and the handsome slave Giton. Grown jealous, Encolpius disgraces his mistress in public, and he and Giton gang up with another low life character, Ascyltus. The three are involved in the murder of a certain Lycurgus, rob his villa and saw up the proceeds in a ragged tunic. During a separation, perhaps while stealing an expensive cloak, Encolpius loses the garment with the stolen money inside. Mutual suspicions of dishonesty and jealousy over Giton shake up the trio, before it barges in into some secret Priapean rites conducted by the priestess Quartilla. Finally we find the three in Puteoli and associating as men of culture with a teacher of rhetoric, Agamemnon, who has a school there. It is here, when the surviving text opens in the middle of a discussion of the times rhetorical education.     So, if the condition of the fragments is such a sorry affair, why bother at all? (For the lewd bits we certainly can substitute from our XXXX video stores.) Well, to begin with, the author obviously had been a linguistic genius with an ear for common peoples speech-patterns, which in itself is highly unusual for Petroniuss time. For all we know, he seemed to have been an intimate member of the inner circle surrounding the emperor Nero. So all the more unusual, that such a man should care for the language in the streets. Nero together with his drinking companions, is reputed to have roamed the streets and taverns of the capital in dissolute sprees of mayhem, even after his coronation. Sometimes this got the teenage emperor in trouble with the law. If Petronius was a participant in these entertainments, he certainly had had ample opportunity for first hand observations on low life and indeed much of this material found its way into his novel.      But it is an unusually rich presentation straddling the entire scale from the vulgar to the mockingly sublime, interspersed with poems and sometimes deliberately bad poetry, and with an uncanny eye for trifles and little sensations. Just notice how the eye follows a drifting bird feather, sinking down to the sea and floating there in narrow circles before being sucked under by the whirling pool of the little waves that dimple the surface - most unusual for practically the entire literature of the period, before and long after. An incredibly rich tapestry unfolds, of local customs, idiosyncratic character traits, the smells and gusto of real peoples life. Tacitus reports, that Petroniuss involvement in Pisos conspiracy did force him to commit suicide in 65 Ad., but not before he spelled out his true feelings in a last letter to the Emperor. This is probably true. According to Roman custom the public reading of a deceaseds will was often used to settle old scores in a piece of unanswerable libel. Considering the enormous length of the novel, Petroniuss death may very well have left unfinished this product of a notorious night-owl.    What had survived, has found in William Arrowsmith a very able translator - it is a hard act to do, and Arrowsmith gave us as good a rendition as can reasonably be expected.	2001-06-15
US	49534502	R22FSJ9MZ3SPFW	0140286802	149633096	Collected Fictions	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Borges in wonderland	Every author creates his own pedigree says Borges, and it would not be entirely unfair to say that Borges had spent the better part of his life in establishing this pedigree. I think, I have read every single line Borges ever had put to print. Some time in my mid-twenties I got hooked when I read for the first time a tale entitled The Zahir and I didnt let go ever after. To my mind especially this story gives the whole Borges in a nutshell. It defies a straightforward explanation and suggests a facetted reflection of different perspectives, but packaged in a deceptively lucid and straightforward narrative. What are those objects which dispense such mysterious power to possess our imagination from the moment we catch sight of them? Isnt it actually just one object that reincarnates through the centuries in all kinds of shapes? Or could it be just a figment of paranoia in a mentally troubled mind with no actual referent in the real world?   Nabokov in one of his (ma!ny) grumpier moments complained about Borges art as being all porch and no house behind. Nabokov has a point. But lets be honest. Instead of churning out a so-so novel and make the reader waste days and weeks over it, it is so much snappier and more interesting to write a mouth-watering review on The Approach to Al-Mutasim. Yes, I confess. I fell for it, and searched the central catalogue of the British Library for this book, and of course I didnt find it. Borgess fictional review was a hoax, but it spurned a new direction in his own production. In a sense all of Borges short stories are sketches for much larger novels, and yet manage to say it all in fewer words. The trick is to leave a characters psychology utterly to the readers intuition and be strictly matter of fact and without frills. Only recently, when I looked into the old Icelandic sagas it occurred to me how much Borges craft actually owes to the Norse storytellers, a fact Borges himself had never hidden!, but one has to see itwith ones own eyes to appreciate the similarities.   The Norse sagas appear to be all surface. As an advance on his inheritance, a son steals a few implements from his fathers cottage, moves away and starts an enterprise of his own, he succeeds beyond expectation, branches out, takes in an apprentice, promotes him as his steward, but disappoints the fellow, because he doesnt offer him a full partnership. Tension develops, the steward decides ... we get the picture. Borges initially looked to Kafka as his most important influence, but then he discovered for himself the potential of the saga style and found ways to load the text with a world of allusions and suggestions underneath of a deceptively straightforward surface. I guess Borges is the opposite extreme to Marcel Proust, and the difference between the two represents a fundamental polarity in the narrative universe. A polarity which had always been there, we can follow it back to the Norse sagas !and their Japanese counterpart, Murasakis Prince Genji, or to Apuleius ribald tale and the sometimes tantalizing glimpses on the rich and minute structure of omniscient realism suggested by the extant fragments of Petrons Satyricon.   It is not so much a difference in subtlety, but more of the narrators temperament. You either seek completeness and offer life to be swallowed whole, or you prefer to be selective with your effects and to create a mirror cabinet of perspectives as the actual object of your narrative. Both is a legitimate way of storytelling, the difference lays in the narrators concept of truth, whether the accent is put on omniscient totality, the whole truth and nothing but the truth, and to the full extent of the artists capacity to cope and let things permeate his temperament, or whether a more opaque, a more sceptical mentality is making choices and opens room to consider plausible alternatives and surprising spectres in a slimmer but more suggesti!ve texture. The former appeals more tothe readers whole spectrum of sensuality, the latter highlights sensual events for the intellect. It is a bit like lovemaking - some people are quite happy just to rub the partners skin and take it all in, hair smell and smile; others need to get their fantasy going, for them, sex is primarily an event in their imagination, even during the act.   In this sense, James Joyce could never make up his mind which way he wanted to go, but apparently you cant have it both ways. And since it affects the artists entire personality this is more than a matter of capriciously deciding how to tell my next tale. It is one of the crossroads in life one has to take, and no possibility to retract your steps. Borges of course had not much of a choice. No matter how much talent one has, impaired eyesight and eventual blindness dictate the direction. Degas in his old age turned to sculpture - what else could he do? In Borges case, the handicap has as much !to do with his artistic choices, as has his private discovery of the Icelandic Sagas. Every sensual moment becomes precious and treasured in ways that could never occur to a Tolstoy or Proust. As a reader I am not sure whether I want to choose between these people. I like them all. At least thats what I tell myself. But my clock knows better. I simply spend more time with the likes of Borges, who demand so little of my time, than the much more expansive ladies and gentlemen with their 3 decker tomes. Tolstoy feeds to my appetites but over Borges I can dream.	2001-06-14
US	49534502	RAKIAZVWW5D	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	4	25	41	N	N	Truth or fiction?	F. &amp; S. have all the credentials and scientific credibility one could ask for, especially Finkelstein is a specialist on MeggidoÕs archaeology. All the excavation data are correct and up to date, these people know what they are talking about. And yet there is a distinct possibility that they got it wrong whenever their dating depends on EgyptÕs regal data, because it possibly places evidence in the wrong context (see my review on RohlÕs ÒPharaohs and KingsÓ). What exactly is the issue here? Well, apart from questions of chronology (1), we need to grasp what ÒanachronismsÓ seem to indicate (2), and find an answer to the question of who had written the biblical texts, why, and when (3)? Unlike F. &amp; S. I consider the bulk of the Old Testament as an exile and post-exile production.    <br /> (1) The question of chronology:     <br /> David Rohl, who incidentally refers to FinkelsteinÕs excavation results as one of his primary sources, proffers an excellent argument for redating the findings as far as they depend on EgyptÕs regal data. Such adjustment would push the Tell el-Amarna letters up from 1352-1327 BC. to ca. 1010-970 BC. (the Merentptah stele moves from 1208 BC. to 862 BC.), while JoshuaÕs conquest would become an event sometime in MB IIB (ca. 1490-1410 BC.), when the archaeological signatures of destruction on the Palestinian map correspond well with the biblical campaign track of JoshuaÕs conquest. Without such adjustment, the book Joshua appears to be sheer fiction. The archaeological evidence for the traditional date of conquest (1220-1230 BC.) reveals scarcely populated hillsides and impoverished small towns without walls in EgyptÕs backyard; this is hardly the mighty confederacy of Palestinian city-states we remember from the text.    <br /> If redated, the Tell el-Amarna letters could become the most important extra biblical resource for the Palestinian situation at the time of Saul, David, and Solomon, and confirm the archaeological findings of a Hebraic principality under Egyptian influence (2 Chron. 8:11 and 1 King 9:16). Seen from a Judaic perspective, the new Hebraic kingdom might have looked impressive enough, but its archaeological remains apparently cannot compare to the achievements of OmriÕs dynasty after the breakup. (That is, if RohlÕs dating for Solomon in late Meggido VIII has to be rejected on grounds of missing evidence for contemporaneous pottery.) In fact the Davidic bias of the biblical historian in 1 Kings 9:15 may have falsely attributed to Solomon many building projects of the northern Kingdom. So F. &amp; S.Õs attribution of Meggido IV, Gezer and Hazor to OmriÕs dynasty would remain intact as far as these data do not depend on EgyptÕs regal chronology.    <br /> (2) Anachronisms:    <br /> F. &amp; S. make a big production of anachronisms, but we have to be careful: the camels in the JosephÕs novel (Gen. 37:25) are honest mistakes of a late narrator who simply doesnÕt know any better. Still this doesnÕt tell us anything either way about the veracity of JosephÕs story. SolomonÕs building sites (1 Kings 9:15) might be a fantasy of the biblical historianÕs patriotic fervor, but the geographic and demographic anachronisms in Joshua, are deliberate presentations in such terms as were current at the time of the bookÕs composition. If I told you that after 876 the Vikings had built a stronghold at Eburacum, the expression on your face will probably turn politely bland. If I tell you that the Vikings had fortified York in the North of England, everything becomes clear for the modern reader, despite the fact that neither England as a state nor ÒYorkÓ as the name of that settlement had existed at the time. Anachronisms can be informative rather than misleading.    <br /> (3) Date and authorship of the texts:    <br /> F. &amp; S. try to establish an intellectually vibrant southern Kingdom. I wonder. Where do we see an opposition, educated enough, that it required convincing? JudahÕs elite of literati had barely enough card carrying members to fill a modern schoolyard and was certainly not in a habit to care much for illiterate pastoralists and peasants. Besides, of all the fundamentalist reform movements I am aware of, none strikes me as particularly creative. Except for a common iconoclastic fervor (in biblical times the continued whining about Òhigh placesÓ) and libels against opposition (thatÕs where all those ÒprophetsÓ come in) such movements appear to be rather stagnant when it comes to their basic manifestos. Besides, apart from the political threat across the borders, there was nobody around to challenge the Yahweh-cult intellectually. So except for the occasional Òtold you soÓ there simply was no need to explain or defend the cult.   <br /> But forced exile opened a whole new ball game. The Hebrews had lost statehood and now their nationhood was under siege. This is a strong motive to redefine oneÕs own identity. Literacy increased and with it the spirit of debate and enquiry. From the old days, they had brought with them Judges, Amos, Hosea, the older Isaiah, Jeremiah, the rest of the minor prophets, and perhaps one or another psalm plus personal memoirs and national epics now lost to us, such as Nu. 21:14 or 2 Kings 22:8. So the rest of the Old Testament is exile and post-exile. But unlike the hodgepodge of Judges, the exilic authors thoroughly edited and redesigned their sources in a ÒmodernizedÓ prose, in order to address the needs of a specific audience.    <br /> Apart from the cult, Moses couldnÕt have meant a lot for JosiahÕs period, yet to people living in actual exile, Exodus and Deuteronomy provided blueprints to regain their statehood. Also notice the references between Ex. 32:25ff or Nu. 25:1-8 and Nehemiah 13:23 or Ezra 9:2,3; 10:3,9ff. The exile author who created the rousing memoir of JoshuaÕs campaign certainly did some research on his own. Who knows what hopes he had, or what use he anticipated for his work - not every expatriate expected a peaceful return. And this adds another dimension to the ÒanachronismsÓ mentioned above. A book full of good archaeology but sometimes shaky on interpretation.	2001-06-13
US	49534502	R1ON600FLFZR2Q	0140444394	174688976	A Discourse on Inequality (Penguin Classics)	Books	1	22	66	N	N	Thank you, but no, thanks	&quot;I have received your new book against the human race, and thank you for it. Never was such cleverness used in the design of making us all stupid. One longs, in reading your book, to walk on all fours. But as I have lost that habit for more than sixty years, I feel unhappily the impossibility of resuming it. Nor can I embark in search of the savages of Canada, because the maladies to which I am condemned render a European surgeon necessary to me; because war is going on in those regions; and because the example of our actions has made the savages nearly as bad as ourselves.&quot; Voltaire (1755)	2001-06-13
US	49534502	R24ESJQEP66YJD	0520021223	852908719	006: The Works of John Dryden, Volume VI: Poems, 1697	Books	5	2	6	N	N	In Search of Virgil	Virgil had set out to create the perfect poem and he succeeded! Unfortunately we no longer use to speak his language. As the millennia pass by we lose rapport with a culture, which had made a science of oratory and banked its entire stock in learning and political persuasion on the fine art of oral delivery. But I feel it still has an edge over our snazzy sound bites designed to titillate the 30 second attention span of hypnotized telly-junkies. Sustained arguments dont ambush you on your solar plexus. Inevitably we lose out on Virgils greatest asset - his incomparable melos of sustained oratory and the onomatopoetic effects to highlight the semantics. It comes with an uncanny grip on the significant nuance and with a choice of words which provoked some of his ancient critics to berate Virgil for his inappropriate language. Virgil was felt to have a fondness for the ordinary vocabulary of common people. In fact this extremely shy man spoke with a rustic accent. To pillage the museum of archaic and rare words and add to it a Miltonian accent, is therefore not the way to translate Virgils exceptional qualities. However Mandelbaum and Humphries are living examples for how hard it can be to avoid the opposite extreme of a limp prosiness.    A modern reader probably associates something nostalgic and sentimental with this kind of poetry, a hypocritical invocation of good old times and conservative values, but Virgil was never sentimental and the inevitable eulogies on the Imperial regime never exceed a peasants noncommittal deference. Virgil had been indebted to the former triumvir for his intervention in the eviction procedures of Virgils paternal estate and this poem was meant to repay the favor. Virgils wry smile under a heavy brow however betrays the epicurean, even if his line of work demanded more than the occasional nod to the mythological pattern. But the gods up there remain aloof and detached from human interest, although, as a farmers son, Virgil hadnever lost an affectionate regard for the crowd of genies and minor deities who protect the soil, spray sparks from the cooking-fire, and guard the lintel. Call it superstition, but it is a world cocooned in spiritual comfort. However we would misunderstand Virgils entire outlook, if we ignored his admiring familiarity with Lucretiuss poem The Way Things Are.     Drydens popularization of the heroic couplet introduced into English prosody a new, slightly ironical, and highly conversational idiom of almost unlimited flexibility. Great poets, like Alexander Pope, could completely specialize on the couplet and drag a living out of it. In the end the 18th century went out of favour, but the saccharine pseudo-lyricism by Romantics, Victorians, and Eduardian poets failed to educate the publics taste for something better than candy for the ear. No wonder that Ezra Pound and T.S. Eliot felt as if on a mission. However Eliot couldnt bring himself to pick up where the Augusteans had dropped Apollos quiver. This would have placed him close to the later Byron, and everybody knows how much Eliot detested Byron. Besides, Drydens and Popes tone was conversational and of an almost impolite lucidity. For Eliots taste their irreverent humor lacked the oracular exuberance of the so called metaphysical poets. The romantics had felt the same way, but had managed to fudge the issue and to supplant the old and, in their view, outmoded set of ethical decorum, with J.J. Rousseauss constipation of the heart and early forays into hard-core nihilism. Indeed, in such company, Virgils Georgics must look like a party crasher from outer space.    Yet the greatest miracle in Virgils poem is something that remains invisible. It originally ended with an eulogy addressing M. lius Gallus. At the time of composition (27 BC.,) Gallus had been Augustus commissioner for Egypt but for some reason fell from grace and was recalled and bullied into committing suicide. So Virgil took out the entire passage from his poem and replaced it with the narrative of Orpheus' quest for his wife at the gates of death. I don't know whether the reader can appreciate what that means: according to my calculation we look in the final edition at some 380 lines rewritten and seamlessly dovetailed to the tightest knit structure of leitmotifs and cross-references ever done in any poem; a little more than 15% of the entire thing. This is not just surgery, this is heart surgery, because it took Virgil 7 years to compose altogether 2,188 lines. If purity of style was his ambition, then Virgil is one of the purest poets of all times. Text and context totally absorb the means of expression without flaunting the poets versatility, something I find sorely lacking in James Joyces Ulysses. (See my review on Ulysses.)     So Dryden had every reason to put as much effort into his translation as Virgil had put into his composition. And he did. Across the millennia this cooperation of 2 of the greatest poets has created one of the marvels of Augustean prosody; a poem, easily on a par with Eliots Quartets. It contains everything a poet would want to tell, as he celebrates life, the seasons, and why it is good to be here, even if it is a hard and unsentimental life under a blazing sky. The Georgics are incredibly rich in content, outlooks and insights, they open unexpected and intriguing perspectives on every page. In a handful of lines Virgil manages to create an entire cosmos. It even contains the original topography for Dantes Hell. Lesser poets would need a lifetime to cover that much ground and it would take them a whole library of tomes to do it. I think I just have found the book to take with me, if a little briefcase and a T-shirt should be my only possessions left.	2001-06-13
US	49534502	R2PTKH4GV48XJS	0609801309	867879334	Pharaohs and Kings: A Biblical Quest	Books	5	7	13	N	N	Time to rewrite the textbooks?	It seems our chronologies for the late Bronze, early Iron Age need an overhaul; 270 years need to be taken out. Mr. Rohls deductions have earned him the unfailing hostility of the curators for Egyptology at the British Museum. Just think of it: the number of exhibits go in the ten thousands. If Rohl is right, 80% of the material needs to be relabeled. Every textbook would have to be rewritten; current term papers be reevaluated - it would be chaos. It is good to recall these purely practical aspects before jumping to conclusions of an academic conspiracy against new findings. Overturning an established consensus can be good science, but should be done with prudence. For instance Big Bang may very well be on the wrong side of new astronomical discoveries, but before we really abandon the idea, we better make darn sure that what is going to take its place, will account for all the facts and reasons that made us developing the older theory in the first place. Rohl has all the academic credentials and he knows what he is up against, so he makes every effort to produce a solid case, and as far as I am concerned, he has succeeded.    However  the farther back we go, the murkier his conjectures. Josephs statue on the cover is a brazen speculation on the books marketability. Although Rohl himself prefaces part 4 of the book as a change of evidence - meaning scarce on evidence but ample on speculation - an illustration depicting Josephs palace and conjectures on Prince Moses campaigning the Ethiopians, give the wrong impression and really have no place in a paper of otherwise immaculate science. Somewhere down the line one has to strike a balance. There are biblical texts that allow for chronological deductions, even require it, because they are meant to be history in the first place. And there are other texts that are not, because they were initially concocted to explain the etiology of things, like most of Genesis or the Josephs novel, (which in the Babylonianexile must have been an especially uplifting read.) People ask why is the man lord over woman? Why is agriculture so hard? Why do people speak in so many different tongues? Why did Jews live in Egypt? Because God made Eve from Adams rib, because Cain rose against his brother, because Yahweh destroyed the tower of Babel, and because Joseph became Pharaohs prime minister and invited his brothers to stay with him. (Oh tell us more about Joseph! - Well thats a juicy tale: Joseph was pursued by Potiphars wife but rose from slavery to power.)     Our oldest literary sources in the entire bible, Amos (in 2:10; 3:1; 9:7) and Hosea (in 11:1; 13:4), testify to a common awareness of Moses and the deliverance from Egyptian bondage. We have reached the murky area where etiology gradually shifts to legends. For all we know, the original stories about the sly fox Moses, who not only had defied the Pharaohs might, but even outwitted God himself when he came to claim Moses firstborn (Ex. 4:24ff), may never have been put in writing. It is a common motif in oral folklore all over the world. We will never know for sure, but it probably formed a cycle of formulaic litanies ending in pithy sayings, like Zipporahs Surely a bloody husband art thou to me, or the Ten Commandments. Inevitably, after only a few generations, the material must have yielded to the dynamics of oral transmission and the formulas and litanies took on a life of their own. So nobody can expect any degree of historical accuracy. Likewise abductions by pirates and raids against townships in Anatolia were known occurrences, but every single detail in the Iliad has turned to formula and fiction. Virgils Aeneas may never have had existed, but the fact remains that Etruscan immigrants had brought early statehood to Italy. Moses the fox may indeed have defied Egyptian authority in a protracted campaign, even struck a deal with Jetrohs spiritus familiaris, (Yahweh,) but the author of Exodus completely transformed Moses character from a sly guerilla leader to a slow witted prophet, inflated the narrative with inserted laws of a different period, and added those extravagant census figures which however might reflect a real census from the time of Cyrus edict, of all the Jews in exile.     Rohls revised chronology goes a long way. It places Judges in the neighborhood of Homers Iliad (which according to Thucydides calculations for Homers lifetime had been composed about 800 to 750 BC. (but recollects legends from about 1048 BC.) It puts the post-exile account of Joshuas campaign in the right place at the right time in the middle Bronze Age; even if the biblical historian refers to the campaigns geography in terms current to his own period. (If I told you that after 876 the Vikings had built a stronghold at Eburacum, the expression on your face will probably turn politely bland. If I tell you that the Vikings had fortified York in the North of England, everything becomes clear for the modern reader, despite the fact that neither England as a state nor York as the name of that settlement had existed at the time. Anachronisms can be deliberate and informative rather than misleading.) In the end, here as elsewhere, everything comes down to text analysis. What was the authors objective, who did he address, are genre and form comparable to known traditions, does language and the use of anachronisms provide clues for the time of authorship? A story can be true despite the lack of supporting evidence. It also can be a piece of fiction despite all the archaeological evidence going for it. Having said all this, strictly as an Egyptologist, Mr. Rohl has an excellent argument.	2001-06-11
US	49534502	R3L6AKKLC3YTV1	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	4	14	23	N	N	Not such a hot idea	Whenever it comes to mythology I am soon engulfed in my own yawns. But I hand it to Mr. Doherty, his exposition of the known facts has speaking for it clarity, simplicity, and elegance. However, what Doherty ironically termed a &quot;conspiracy of silence,&quot; could actually even apply on a real-life character who slouched through history on bast-sandals. Just ask yourself: what would emerge, if I take the gospels on surface value, and if it were true that Paul's and some of the apostolic letters antedate the earliest gospel? Well, what looks back at ME, is the story of a man whose Jewish mother had shamefully conceived out of wedlock and who himself ended in utter disgrace, especially in the eyes of his fellow Jews. This alone must have been a sufficient reason for the earliest missionaries to keep his actual life under the lid and to elaborate more on its meaning than on its facts. The mythological flavor and confusion between the different narratives then flows quite naturally from such beginnings, while the apostolic letters prefer to sidestep such sticky matters altogether. It makes sense that the earliest gospel doesnt mention his childhood.     I mean if I follow Dohertys own line of reasoning, what is to be gained for the Christian cause to abandon the purity of a mythological message, and to confuse the issue with the dubious tales of a Jesus in the flesh? This was not present day America and given the cultural climate of the period, a Jesus in the flesh made the early missionaries business harder, not easier. None of the pagan critics, not Celsus, nor Porphyrius, ever questioned the historicity of Jesus, instead they first leveled their criticism against the lowly status of the man and then charged the Christians with atheism and introducing a newfangled faith, never heard of before. So why this turn in the message, if not for a compelling reason? Thing is, Mr. Doherty could be right all the way (except for his conclusion) and the silence of early sources could simply be a sign for embarrassment.     I guess as an archaeologist myself, I would just like to point my finger on something more tangible, a person if possible - Jesus, John, Sosthenes - anybody, and say &quot;hey, he started it.&quot; So when I see the biblical scholars do their quoting and comparing of text snippets, sometimes out of context, sometimes wrestling it into a different context, and always claiming to reconstruct the true context, then - well then I wish I could just book a ticket for Capernaum (not Jerusalem, the temporary internment there was meant to be vacated from the outset) and, armed with a grand and permit, dig out an ossuary containing a skeleton whose ankles are nailed together with a slab in between that reads &quot;Jesus, King of the Jews.&quot; This would once and for all settle the issue on all the relevant questions - it also would probably incite some idiot to shoot me. Seriously, who actually has an interest in Jesus remains been found? Not the Churches! Not the likes of Mr. Doherty! Not the believers in resurrection and ascension!     As it is, the weight of the debate is carried along in theological interpretations; not a good way to get to the bottom of historical facts. It is true, the gospels fictional features are pretty obvious: for instance the story of a Roman trial is presented as if conducted as a black mass - the entire protocol turned into the opposite: (1) A defendant with a long-standing warrant on his head pleads guilty on all charges, but the judge finds &quot;no guilt;&quot; (2) a multitude accuses the defendant, but the legal system does not provide for a collective body of prosecutors (and the author of Acts 24 knows it.) (3) The judge completely forgets his function to &quot;sit&quot; trial and goes out of his way (and his chambers!) to run the errands for his bailiffs. (4) He even solicits the verdict with the mob. (5) Then he immediately repudiates his own decision. (But washing his hands wasmeaningful only for a reader knowledgeable of Jewish lore.) One should remember that the most popular and least expensive form of entertainment in those days had been to attend trials, so even illiterate people, without actually knowing the law, had a fair grasp on the proceedings and so no doubt did the authors of the gospels. But whatever their reason, they concocted a story far removed from any known fact: a story that required a wise fairy tale judge, who was completely out of character with the historical Pilate and whose effort to dispense human justice was doomed to fail in a fallen world. The theory that the gospel's tried to hoodwink Roman authorities is nonsense, because even the Gospel-Pilate conducts his duties in a fashion which a Roman reader would have found offensive.     Besides, even so Dohertys deductions do heavily lean towards a late dating of the gospels, it seems that Mt. 5:23-24 presents a Jesus who is still concerned with participating in the Temple cult. This opens to the possibility that Matthew had been composed before the Temples destruction. (In fact if Jesus and Paul had ever met, they may have found very little to agree upon.) Even the Jesus in the supposedly late John, after the incident in Jn. 2:14 (a felony according to Roman(!) law that probably saddled Jesus with a writ on his head, which ironically protected him from more severe harassment by Jewish authorities) took considerable risks year after year to celebrate the holidays in Jerusalem (Jn.5; Jn.11 etc.; notice especially Jn. 7:10 then went he also up unto the feast, not openly, but as it were in secret, presumably after his companions gave the all clear.) But in the end Roman justice caught up with him. So Mr. Dohertys own line of reasoning can lead to two different conclusions. An enjoyable read for people who dig this sort of thing.	2001-06-11
US	49534502	R3FAF8I6QWXESR	0609801309	867879334	Pharaohs and Kings: A Biblical Quest	Books	5	1	6	N	N	Time to rewrite the textbooks?	It seems our chronologies for the late Bronze, early Iron Age need an overhaul; 270 years need to be taken out. Mr. Rohls deductions have earned him the unfailing hostility of the curators for Egyptology at the British Museum. Just think of it: the number of exhibits go in the ten thousands. If Rohl is right, 80% of the material needs to be relabeled. Every textbook would have to be rewritten; current term papers be reevaluated - it would be chaos. It is good to recall these purely practical aspects before jumping to conclusions of an academic conspiracy against new findings. Overturning an established consensus can be good science, but should be done with prudence. For instance Big Bang may very well be on the wrong side of new astronomical discoveries, but before we really abandon the idea, we better make darn sure that what is going to take its place, will account for all the facts and reasons that made us developing the older theory in the first place. Rohl has all the academic credentials and he knows what he is up against, so he makes every effort to produce a solid case, and as far as I am concerned, he has succeeded.    However  the farther back we go, the murkier his conjectures. Josephs statue on the cover is a brazen speculation on the books marketability. Although Rohl himself prefaces part 4 of the book as a change of evidence - meaning scarce on evidence but ample on speculation - an illustration depicting Josephs palace and conjectures on Prince Moses campaigning the Ethiopians, give the wrong impression and really have no place in a paper of otherwise immaculate science. Somewhere down the line one has to strike a balance. There are biblical texts that allow for chronological deductions, even require it, because they are meant to be history in the first place. And there are other texts that are not, because they were initially concocted to explain the etiology of things, like most of Genesis or the Josephs novel, (which in the Babylonianexile must have been an especially uplifting read.) People ask why is the man lord over woman? Why is agriculture so hard? Why do people speak in so many different tongues? Why did Jews live in Egypt? Because God made Eve from Adams rib, because Cain rose against his brother, because Yahweh destroyed the tower of Babel, and because Joseph became Pharaohs prime minister and invited his brothers to stay with him. (Oh tell us more about Joseph! - Well thats a juicy tale: Joseph was pursued by Potiphars wife but rose from slavery to power.)     Our oldest literary sources in the entire bible, Amos (in 2:10; 3:1; 9:7) and Hosea (in 11:1; 13:4), testify to a common awareness of Moses and the deliverance from Egyptian bondage. We have reached the murky area where etiology gradually shifts to legends. For all we know, the original stories about the sly fox Moses, who not only had defied the Pharaohs might, but even outwitted God himself when he came to claim Moses firstborn (Ex. 4:24ff), may never have been put in writing. It is a common motif in oral folklore all over the world. We will never know for sure, but it probably formed a cycle of formulaic litanies ending in pithy sayings, like Zipporahs Surely a bloody husband art thou to me, or the Ten Commandments. Inevitably, after only a few generations, the material must have yielded to the dynamics of oral transmission and the formulas and litanies took on a life of their own. So nobody can expect any degree of historical accuracy. Likewise abductions by pirates and raids against townships in Anatolia were known occurrences, but every single detail in the Iliad has turned to formula and fiction. Virgils Aeneas may never have had existed, but the fact remains that Etruscan immigrants had brought early statehood to Italy. Moses the fox may indeed have defied Egyptian authority in a protracted campaign, even struck a deal with Jetrohs spiritus familiaris - Yahweh - but the author of Exodus completely transformed Moses character from a sly guerilla leader to a slow witted prophet, inflated the narrative with inserted laws of a different period, and added those extravagant census figures, which however might reflect a real census of all the Jews in exile from the time of Cyrus edict.     Rohls revised chronology goes a long way. It places Judges in the neighborhood of Homers Iliad (which according to Thucydides calculations for Homers lifetime had been composed about 800 to 750 BC. (but recollects legends from about 1048 BC.) It puts the post-exile account of Joshuas campaign in the right place at the right time in the middle Bronze Age; even if the biblical historian refers to the campaigns geography in terms current to his own period. (If I told you that after 876 the Vikings had built a stronghold at Eburacum, the expression on your face will probably turn politely bland. If I tell you that the Vikings had fortified York in the North of England, everything becomes clear for the modern reader, despite the fact that neither England as a state nor York as the name of that settlement had existed at the time. Anachronisms can be deliberate and informative rather than misleading.) In the end, here as elsewhere, everything comes down to text analysis. What was the authors objective, who did he address, are genre and form comparable to known traditions, does language and the use of anachronisms provide clues for the time of authorship? A story can be true despite the lack of supporting evidence. It also can be a piece of fiction despite all the archaeological evidence going for it. Having said all this, strictly as an Egyptologist, Mr. Rohl has an excellent argument.	2001-06-11
US	49534502	R2RX7HMO25NJWL	0395779278	962738707	Constantine's Sword: The Church and the Jews: A History	Books	1	17	37	N	N	Self-pity wrapped in postmodern journalism	Does history matter? Do we really relate to what people of the past have thought and done? A historian from ancient Rome would answer that history is the Ôcustom of nations.Õ He instinctively understood that past customs generate laws of the present and commitments for the future. My grandfather died in Auschwitz. James Carroll knows as well as I, that most Nazis in the upper echelons, whoÕd sent Jews to the phony shower-rooms, had a strict catholic up-bringing, and this troubles his conscience. So more for his own than our benefit, he explores whether there is a connection between the Nazi death camps and the Church.     In 180 AD. the Roman emperor Marc Aurel expressed concern over the Òmilitary disciplineÓ of the early church; 135 years later, emperor Constantine decided to employ exactly this quality and issued his famous edict of tolerance. It legalized an institution which to the present day sees it as its god-given right to prosecute every dissenter, even so it had originated itself in dissent from its Jewish parent. Hence anti-Semitism is an in-build mechanism, the ChurchÕs persecution of culture, learning, science and art whenever and wherever they happen to disagree with Catholic doctrine is no accident. So Mr. Carroll is certainly entitled to discuss the nature of early Christianity.    Like any other institution, the Catholic Church is built on a series of legal charters and specific precedents, which in the ChurchÕs case are constituted by the New Testament. While being distracted by the ambiguities of Christian teaching, Mr. Carroll misses the crux of his own argument and ignores the legal aspect. It is open to everybody who can read, that the New Testament, since St. Paul, as matter of principle, opposes Jewish law as the means of salvation. It also contains testimonies to the contrary, but they didnÕt carry the debate. So when in 385 AD. a Syrian bishop incited his flock to burn a synagogue, the angered EmperorÕs personal adviser and most prestigious cleric of his period, St. Ambrose (epist. vol. 2: 40-41,) counselled against indemnifying the afflicted Jews, not just here and now, but on principle! Legally this has set a pivotal precedent in Christian-Catholic history and it follows Luke 19:27 to the letter. ÒWhat could be less Christian, than killing others for being different?Ó asks a reviewer. Well, the New Testament can be curiously explicit on how to deal with opposition. And this inspired ecclesiastical law which in turn carried over to secular law. We look at the incitement to commit atrocities and at an institutionalized mechanism to anesthetize the perpetratorsÕ conscience. We look at an all out assault on culture and people! Jewish people, Moslems, heretics, just about anybody who had the audacity of begging to differ.     In 1071 the celibacy campaigner Pope Gregory VII invited his counterparts in Constantinople, Michael Cerularius and Constantine Psellus, to celebrate the reunion of the two churches over a bonfire. As an expression for their stance on sexuality, they burned 11,000 verses of Sappho and Alceios (which till then had survived for 1,600 years. Today barely 270 lines are left of AntiquityÕs greatest poetess.) The ÒreunionÓ dissolved in 1078. So Pope Innocent III took the opportunity to redirect a pending ÒCrusadeÓ towards the sister-church. Until April 13, 1204 Constantinople had been the last vestige of antique civilization. Then the Christian mob in- and outside the city-walls, burned, looted, and smashed to smithereens the last intact remains of ancient art and science. After such exertions, they proceeded to rape 20,000 women. (The film-maker Bunuel once explained, that no Eskimo or Chinese could possibly enjoy sex as much as a sin-stricken Catholic!) Now, Pope Innocent III did indeed express remorse -- but only because he had lost control over the events! So he decided to strengthen the ChurchÕs executive powers: in 1208 he introduced the Holy Inquisition.   <br />During the Dark Ages sciences had emigrated to countries under Muslim rule and only one workable banking system existed - the network of Jewish money-lenders. Now and then magistrates and royal courts would find it convenient to clear their debts in a ÒspontaneousÓ pogrom. No pope lost his sleep over this and Pope Gregory IXÕs address on the issue in 1255 came only AFTER Knights Templar and Italian bankers had established their own networks. (DanteÕs Beatrice was a Bardi.) Besides the Holy Office had blood on its own hands, and not just from involvement in dynastic policies. The crusade against Albigensian ÒhereticsÓ was conducted under RomeÕs direct supervision. The genocide in the Languedoc lasted from 1208 to 1244. It became the dress rehearsal for future prosecutions of Muslims and Jews. Mr. Carroll tells of forced conversions and ethnic cleansing in Spain. But he is too involved in his own little reform agenda to do jutice to the InquisitionÕs instrumental role in setting up the events. Resistance was futile. Documents tell us of a converted son, who followed his mother into exile and persuaded her to return to the InquisitionÕs jurisdiction. She did -- and was tortured and immolated. And with her every Sephardic Jew who refused baptism or exile.     The Renaissance improved the ChurchÕs image but not the attitude. The Holy OfficeÕs response to the printing press was the infamous index of forbidden books, Bruno burned at the stake and Galilei faced thumbscrews. But Jews had to wait for another century, for SECULAR enlightenment and Napoleon, to lay down their stigmatizing garb and leave the ghettos, of which the last to open, was next door to the Vatican. The signatories of the American Constitution swore to the principle of tolerance and the separation of State and Church - they have created a paradox! We allow Judaism, Christianity, and Islam to get away with preposterous claims to exclusive truth, because tolerance cannot make exceptions, even forits enemies. On 600 pages Mr. Carroll could have given us some hard and unsentimental evidence, but he preferred to wallow in self-pity. A time-waster.	2001-06-11
US	49534502	R21ML4RRWGJ93Z	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	3	2	10	N	N	A bit too postmodern for my taste	Going through the reviews I am intrigued by the American fascination with Ronald Reagan. People are disappointed about the biographer  but thats what you get when you elect a clown for president. The biography simply cant be better than its subject. Recently I had a little exchange with one of the reviewers who posted on their own website a list of the 10 greatest cultural figures of the 20th century. I couldnt believe my eyes. Are these guys serious? Allowing that culture is the way people do things and different cultures do the same thing in different ways, it still boggles the mind to find some or other pope on the list, a certain Brian Lamb, George Orwell, John Wayne (huh?), Elvis (has he been sighted lately?), Barry Goldwater?????!!?, and Ronald Reagan, while Henry Ford, Eisenhower, Einstein, Planck, Turing, W. H. Auden, James D. Watson &amp; Francis Crick, or Henry J. Kaiser are not. Go figure.     But I admit there is a good deal of snobbery on my part. In a true democracy everybody is allowed to have a shot at the presidency, and if a clown makes it at the ballots he has the right to show his red nose from the White House balcony. Yes you guessed it  I am a chauvinist Limey and diehard colonialist who goes with Kiplings idea of good government: a small cadre of professional administrators and the many administrated minding their own business; and I dont like the latest reforms in the House of Lords. Hereditary peers have proven their value as last line of resistance when all other means of opposition had failed against Margaret Thatchers insane policies.    But seriously, no president has more brazenly violated the law and lied to the public - even outdoing Nixon - and got away with it only because he looked the part. So with this in mind, I couldnt help shaking my head over the witch-hunt against Clinton by Americas righteous hypocrits. Reagan and Margaret Thatcher - a match made in a place I dont want to be: never had a deadlier combination of amateur politicians messed up the destinies of our nations in a briefer span of time, especially the economy. It squandered to the last penny Britains windfall from its North Sea oil reserves, and saddled the USA with the greatest deficit any state had ever had at any time, anywhere in history. And what do you know? They get away with it. Textbooks are glowing with their praise. Next thing is Adolf Hitler is going to become a catholic saint. In what kind of world are we living here?    Mr. Morris is a sympathetic and intelligent observer, who obviously likes Ronald Reagan. He shares the perception of this politicians greatness, and has a compassionate eye for Reagans human side. But Morris is bright enough not to idolize his subject. So if you look for a piece of idolatry, read something else; if you just like Reagan or want to freshen up on the facts, this is a good book to begin with, provided you are willing to put up with this new journalistic style of flaunting smack in the middle of the facts what should be the least important person in a biography: the author.	2001-06-07
US	49534502	R1VCOZWN2UV4EF	0898701775	868484268	Catholicism and Fundamentalism: The Attack on "Romanism" by "Bible Christians"	Books	2	7	80	N	N	If you absolutely must ...	... then this book is as good a start, as anything. My position on Christianity in general should by now be pretty obvious from my other reviews. Historically it was a catastrophic event which led to irreplaceable losses of art-treasures and literature, not to mention the losses of lives, butchered by the millions in the name of doctrine. Constantines famous edict of tolerance had legalized an institution which to the present day sees it as its god-given right to persecute every dissenter, but the Churchs un-abating hostility to the sciences just follows up on the anti-intellectual bias in the New Testament itself. And last but not least, like no other institution, the Catholic Church has been - and still is - instrumental for the relentless terrorism over common peoples sexuality and the general outlook on life as if we were creatures of some metaphysically construed sin who, simply for breathing in a fallen world, are periodically required to grovel for forgiveness. Never has a political institution wielded a more powerful instrument of mind control.    And yet having said all this, within its own context, only the Catholic Church has managed to become a cultural factor of noticeable significance. Whenever and wherever Protestantism rose and rises its ugly head, it has the effect of a cultural steamroller, going roughshod over the relics of Catholic idolatry. In fact regardless of labels, the tacit premise of evangelical Protestantism is good old-fashioned iconoclasm. (There was a time, when this sort of thing almost brought down the Byzantine empire.) When the Holy Office issued its infamous Index of forbidden books it had put on top of the list - guess what - the Bible! Now without going into the issue of censorship, I really think, this was an adequate response to the crop of budding heresies since Luther.    To put it in plain language: the Catholic Church and her Greek and Coptic sisters are THE churches, period. The rest is heresy. Plain and simple. TheChurch is entitled to frown on any form of private Bible interpretation, for its lack of guidance and for poor standards of instruction. (If only her own standards would always be up to the mark.) In the Western World, only the 3 churches can make a claim for a relationship to the numinous because among other things they are also the last surviving genuine cult societies from Antiquity and their pagan heritage is nothing to be ashamed of, no matter how much Protestants would like to ridicule it. As long as people feel the need to confront the numinous presence in a tangible form, as something that is supposed to occur physically, right in front of your eyes, the old churches continue to fulfill a function. (The Eucharist is either the immediate manifestation of a presence, or it isnt, no cop-out into symbols and rationalizing.) This is quite different from the mere constipation of the heart, which a protestant uses to mistake for religious commitment and the foundation of faith.     The Church doesnt trust such fickle thing as the human heart. She rather observes ceremony, follows procedures, and lays down the law. Besides: Protestants wouldnt even be able to enjoy their favorite pastime - Bible thumping - without the Churches comparably faithful custody over the text for the long period before Wycliff or Luther. Of course that doesnt change the fact that in the final analysis Romes doctrine is just as home cooked as the heretic protestations. Traditions versus the &quot;traditions of men&quot;; Peter and the papacy; Marian beliefs; honoring the Saints; purgatory; papal infallibility; and infant baptism etc. are not exactly plumes in the Popes tiara. Nor should anybody indulge in the game of biblical quoting, usually from all over the place with no regard for context and application and in the final analysis completely dishonest and egodriven. As it is, scripture is as much a purely incidental reference, as is the ecclesiastic code of conduct a time-honoredbut arbitrary concoction: both share the same degree of apocryphal inventiveness and downright fraudulent bogus.     Still, Mr. Keating definitely has a case. The widespread addiction to the word of scripture has created an anemic dearth of sensual spirituality. Scriptural fundamentalism is definitely a narcotic that runs the faithful through feverish cycles of addiction and withdrawal. So if you are susceptible for this sort of thing, the alternative is either raw dope or therapeutic constrain in a ceremonial form like the (old) Catholic mass. The choice is yours.	2001-06-07
US	49534502	R1F5CLPRZM4ELB	0198810016	392933251	The Roman Revolution (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	A magnificent call to arms	Despite of intensive study and thorough research, the book was written with a view on the situation in 1939. Fascist dictatorships then seemed to hold a franchise on the future. Stalins purges and the Spanish civil war appeared to reenact the drama which had seen a first performance at the end of the Roman republic, when a party-politician and republican General committed high treason and suspended the constitution, which opened unheard of opportunities and eventually swept the son of a small town banker to the highest office and absolute power.     I said swept, but Symes monumental study shows that dumb luck and blind opportunity played only a small part in the ascend of one of the coolest, most ruthless, and most calculating minds who ever aspired political power. However considering the youth and inexperience of Augustus at the beginning of his career, and with a look at the staff of first class advisers that surrounded the young man from the very beginning, one wonders whether it was just Augustus calculation or whether history witnessed to the execution of a master plan by the same man who had had adopted the young Augustus (gossip says, for sexual favours) and who had set him up with means and advisory brainpower. After the dictators assassination the young fellow acted without hesitation, and succeeded against enormous odds. But the man who despite of his frail physique should become one of the longest ruling heads of state in history, had remarkably few lucky breaks. In 31 BC. he again had reached a point where he completely lacked constitutional legality. In order to consolidate his position, Augustus became the first dictator in history to call for a nationwide plebiscite.    With due respect to Mommsen it must be said that Sir Ronalds study helps to straighten out Mommsens rather curious adulations on Julius Caesar. Yet both historians based their views on the same premise: that democracy inevitably leads to dictatorship, if the conservative forcesturn out to be too stubborn and retrograde in terms of social and economical progress, or if they create a situation in which such progress disenfranchises societys weakest without compensating for the pain inflicted. Strange as this may sound: Caesar, Augustus, Musolini, Hitler, Stalin, Peron, or chairman Mao at some point had all started their career as a spokesperson for the people against the pillars of conservatism. When I look at the present scene in America, I wonder whether this lesson is going to be lost again. Who might it be, who is going to hold the peoples mandate without an election? I am afraid he is already walking among us.    Legally, as the peoples tribune, a Roman emperor depended on his legislative veto-power. It was Augustus who first realized its importance. Of course the commander in chief of the armed forces could ask for whatever he fancied, yet Augustus had enough acumen not to depend on the loyalty of troops if he could help it. He was a Roman, and like the aqueducts his empire was built for posterity. When it suited them Roman emperors could even present themselves as the antique equivalent to the leader of a modern labor union: Domitian, the most careful administrator of the empire (Mommsen,) is known for his interventionist economics and he had an inventor of a new material executed because such innovation could have put people out of work. The senatorial gossip surrounding Nero has clouded the fact that his policies were immensely popular with the masses, even after his ignominious death. Ancient Rome had succumbed to military despotism, yet we should keep in mind that the same man who had done most to bring down republican liberty, had also left as his legacy the egalitarian rule of law, which remained to be surprisingly functional until Diocletians reforms. Many emperors thought it good PR to show themselves below the law like everybody else, and public welfare enjoyed the benefit.    What impresses most in Sir Ronalds studyis the way this historian manages to unravel the entangled messiness of cross-purpose policies, blind chance, and calculated action. Syme successfully avoids to create a picture of ironclad necessity, which so often mars the perspective of historical writing, but it also becomes quite clear, that in the end timely and better informed decisions succeeded over poorer judgement. Augustus was in no way destined to come out victorious, but he did because his opponents missed their chances. Eventually this supreme pragmatist became not only the richest man of his era but also the most opulent benefactor who funneled back most of his billions into the community. Augustus is one of the enigmas of history: an absolutely ruthless politician, completely untrammeled by even the remotest sign of a conscience, and yet at the same time a genuine benefactor, fond of mingling with lower classes at the dog-races; a man who preferred to live, away from his palaces and villas, in a small, rented apartment. Go figure. Not your everyday friendly mobster from the neighborhood.     And this is the other great quality of Symes study. He clearly advances on Mommsens anachronistic imposition of latter-day party politics on the Roman political scene. With Sir Ronald we come much closer to the often purely dynastic competition in the Roman senate. However it would oversimplify the situation to dismiss this institution merely as a clearinghouse for perks and prestige without any conflict between principles and policies. The legislation of the Gracci had had introduced issues that really mattered and moved the urban masses to support populist dynasts, like Catilina and Caesar, against provincial upstarts on the conservative ticket, like Cicero, and even made them vote for military junta chiefs of dubious legitimacy like Augustus himself. Sir Ronalds book, meant as a warning to politicians of his own time, never compromises on scholarship and profound analysis. Historiography at its very best; an outstanding achievement.	2001-06-06
US	49534502	R1YQHM90VO9RLQ	0865474990	187921408	The New Testament	Books	3	4	121	N	N	Good News? Excuuuse me ...	In Acts 5:1-11, there is a chilling scene. With his gang of devoted thugs (the young men,) a cult-leader, Peter, enforces his rule of terror over a new sect. 2 members hold back on their contributions and get the treatment for backsliding. They mysteriously die. Even Luke cant completely obscure the horror the sectarians must have felt after the incident. Not surprisingly, when the movement began to expand, Peter completely disappears from sight. Perhaps he really went on mission to the Parthian capital Babylon. The epistles under Peters name say nothing else. One thing we know for sure: there is not a shred of credible evidence, that Peter had ever arrived in Rome. So Mt. 16:16 is a rather shaky rock at the Churchs foundation.    As it is the New Testament is a selection of documents from a much larger pool of testimonies and reflects the debate between Jews, Gentile proselytes and heretics from the Jewish law. The inclusion of the very early letters of James and Hebrews in the canon documents more or less faithfully both sides of the issue, but it was Pauls campaign against the observance of the law that eventually carried the debate and directed Church policies of the future. Add to this the New Testaments marked anti-intellectual bias and we understand how anti-Semitism and the persecution of heresies, of learning, science and art, could have become the main occupation of the Church. Some passages are of revolting nastiness: see for example Lk. 19:27. This is neither an isolated slip nor out of context. In fact the context does absolutely nothing to salvage the tenor of this message and corresponds well with Mt. 10:34-37, Lk. 12:49-53, and with entire sections, especially the fundamentalists favorite read: Revelations. Repeatedly we read the invocation that the Lord should come real soon and make an end to this world right now. I am come to send fire on the earth; and what will I, if it be already kindled?    The gospels of course are anythingbut history. For instance they give us the story of a Roman trial, but present it as if conducted as a black mass  everything in the protocol is turned into the opposite, like a Satanic message: (1) A defendant with a long-standing warrant on his head pleads guilty on all charges, but the judge finds &quot;no guilt;&quot; (2) a multitude accuses the defendant, but the legal system does not provide for a collective body of prosecutors (and the author of Acts 24 knows it.) (3) The judge completely forgets his function to &quot;sit&quot; trial and goes out of his way (and his chambers!) to run the errands of his bailiffs. (4) He even solicits the verdict with the mob. (5) Then he immediately repudiates his own decision. But washing his hands was meaningful only for a reader who knows Jewish lore. One should keep in mind that the most popular and least expensive form of entertainment in those days had been to attend trials, even make an extra buck as a barrister's hired claque. So otherwise illiterate people, without actually knowing the law, had a fair grasp on the proceedings. The ancient reader knew how it was done and so did the authors of the gospels. But whatever their reason, they concocted a story far removed from any known fact: a story that required a wise fairy tale judge, who was completely out of character with the historical Pilate and whose efforts for human justice were doomed to fail in a fallen world. The theory that the gospel's tried to hoodwink Roman authorities is nonsense because even the Gospel-Pilate conducts his duties in a fashion which a Roman reader would find offensive.     Scholarly consent uses to delegate John to a later date than the synoptic gospels. But the only evidence for this is based on theological content which depends on doctrine rather than history. However on the question when the kingdom will come, a non-canonical gospel that must be considered as at least contemporaneous to the synoptic gospels has this to say: &quot;Itwill not come by watching for it. It will not be said, 'Look, here!' or 'Look, there!' Rather, the Father's kingdom is spread out upon the earth, and people don't see it.&quot; (Gospel of Thomas 113.) This is pure John, if we can trust Bultmanns interpretation, and it proclaims the invisible empire as already arrived, with no Eucharist and no idea of a second coming. According to the scholars this could be the last ditch attempt to explain that the predictions of a near parusia  (Mk. 9:1, Mt. 16:28, 1 Cor. 15:50) had failed to be fulfilled (which alone could settle the whole issue whether to accept such faith. Let no man deceive himself. 1 Cor. 3:18) But it could just as well be the proclamations earliest form, and Paul (1 Cor. 11:27) and the synoptic gospels introduced the Eucharist and the notion of a second coming to mollify the general disappointment over an obviously unchanged world.      A final observation. Gospels, apostolic letters and Apocalypse seem to agree upon a fallen cosmos, ruled by &quot;The Lord of this World.&quot; (Occupied territory, so to speak, and every hair is counted.) Who exactly this source of evil might be depends on personal conviction: Palestinian nationalists would accuse occupying Rome, (Revelations seven-headed dragon symbolized the Roman emperors from Augustus to Domitian,) orthodox Jews think of the Prince of Darkness, Gnostics would indict the creator of the world himself. This, at the time, was a widely shared perception among Gentiles and Jews. Only towards the medieval ages the emphasis shifted from the existential predicament to the individuals moral choices. So the only way out appeared to be an act of divine grace and open perhaps only to a select minority. All of which amounts to the usual hate message of hysterically religious but very common fanatics  with love and charity as the candy wrapper. Excellent translation, but not my favorite read.	2001-06-06
US	49534502	R3H7ABMFIT6Q0K	0375700218	30170986	The Confessions	Books	3	6	21	N	N	Gifted but misguided	The saint in question was undoubtedly one of the most gifted, if not the most gifted intellect of his period. Whenever he attends to a purely philosophical problem, say on the nature of time, or problems of semantics, then he makes good sense. He is capable to think for himself and always able to discover an original angle in some old problem. He was the first to state Descartes' &quot;cogito&quot;  some 1200 years before Descartes. But it is typical for the methods of dissimulation in the Churchs teachings, that Augustine is misrepresented as a defender of the doctrine of free will. In fact he was nothing of the kind. Augustine wrote 2 treatises on the subject, the first ascribing to the freedom of will BEFORE he became a Christian, the second recanting his position in favor of predestination AFTER his conversion. Both essays are object lessons how to argue the case.    Unfortunately these gifts made the man one of the most formative thinkers and makers of the Western mind-set. Why unfortunately? Because his thoughts are not just a product of genius, but of a person suffering from a pathological guilt complex. Being Augustine, he managed to find for his obsession a vehicle in the teachings of St. Paul. If you ask me whom I detest most in the New Testament, I would say St. Paul. But we owe it to St. Augustines interest in Paul and his influence on orthodoxy and heretics alike (Luther!), that someone, who prided himself in his abilities for dissimulation so that he could be everything to every man, would cause for centuries of Christian history so much intellectual and emotional misery. Paul is not the only voice in the New Testament, but his carried the debate and the blame for this rests squarely on Augustines shoulders.    So here we have his autobiography; the man himself reveals his deeply neurotic and problematic character. The patterns are pretty typical for a child of middle-class parents who lack the means to secure a standing in the upper crust and withconsiderable sacrifice provide for the best education their money can buy, in the hope that it will help their child to climb the social ladder. There is plenty intellectual irresolution which turns all too eagerly to an atrocious radicalism after his conversion - his fierce controversy with the Donatists and the infamous response to the sack of Rome. All too often his monumental ego makes a public display of its not quite so humble humility. Genius is the child that survives inside the adult. He was a genius alright and physically a spoiled brat for most of his childhood and adolescence. It remains veiled under Augustines adulation of St. Ambrose, but this aloof church politician who combined mild manners and calculated acts of violence, looked right through Augustines character, and one senses a certain condescension on Ambroses part. In his view Augustine was not exactly leadership material. So he recommended him for the thorny but unrewarding post of a provincial diocese, where Augustine got stuck for the rest of his life.    The Confessions are modelled on Jeremiahs autobiography (Jerem. 1:1-12; 11:18-23; 15:10-21; 17:14-18; 20:7-12, 14-18;) and follow up on the tenor in Jeremiahs question why me of all people? which in the case of the prophet is a testimony to his intellectual integrity. Augustines narrative tries to emulate this by taking on an air of continual bewilderment over the most minute incidents of his life. This heightens very effectively a sense for their presumed symbolic significance and for a writer there is something to learn here; French intellectuals had always held Augustines Confessions in high regard. But all too frequently the saints eloquence becomes shrill and hysterical. Apparently he still needed to drown his niggling doubts by stylistically turning up the volume. Not exactly a pleasant read. Even so, coming from as far back as late Antiquity, it is probably one of the 5 most influential books on modern literature.	2001-06-05
US	49534502	R221E22PK76EE9	0840700415	523577291	The Holy Bible : 1611 Edition - King James Version	Books	5	2	46	N	N	If only they had skipped the New Testament	A nations intellectual heritage laid out in a bazaar: The older Isaiah, a near contemporary to Homer and truly a poetic genius of the highest order; the younger Isaiah, an independent mind who dares to think the unthinkable, a worthy contemporary of Heraclitus. Jeremiah lived at Sapphos time and wrote the first autobiography in western literature (Jerem. 1:1-12; 11:18-23; 15:10-21; 17:14-18; 20:7-12, 14-18;) which became a model for Augustines Confessions. The Song of Solomon was composed either in Alexandria or Antioch, roughly at the time of the pastoral poet Theocrit. Notice how the author has pillaged the entire Bible for set-phrases, allusions, and verbal references. It is ostentatious poetry, it is also a bit of a rabbinical crossword puzzle. Logically the song itself cannot be earlier than the latest of these references. Ecclesiastes is an early forerunner of Friedrich Nietzsche, and the monumental succession saga of love (in every variety), kingship and betrayal outshines Herodots Histories. King Saul is still my hero, and no matter how expertly the post-exile author has done the whitewash - David is the villain. This book speaks to us in many voices: a great and strong wind rent the mountains, and broke to pieces the rocks but Yahweh was not in the wind: and after the wind an earthquake; but Yahweh was not in the earthquake: And after the earthquake a fire; but Yahweh was not in the fire: and after the fire a still small voice. (1 Kings 19:11-13).     Of course, mostly we look at fiction, not history. Characters and places do not match and the incidents are anachronistic projections from a later period. The impressive ruins excavated at Samaria and Dan rightfully belong to the House of Omri, but Chronicles and Succession sagas had been written under a Davidic bias and falsely credit Solomon for the fortifications at Megiddo, Hazor and Gezer. As a matter of fact the Kingdom of Israel was the real deal from which the house of David had seceded into a little enclave around Jerusalem. Despite all the noises about idolatry and abomination it was the North that prospered, before it finally succumbed to Assyrias imperialism. Notice that, only after Yahwehs fundamentalists under Josiah and Hezekiah had pushed through their reforms, things began to go very wrong in Judah too and ended (at least temporarily) in complete annihilation of Hebraic statehood. No matter how you look at it: grumpy old Yahweh had betrayed his people. In fact Jethros spitus familiaris at times could show signs of a perfidious nastiness: see Exodus 4:24ff where by the way in the inn, Yahweh met Moses, and sought to kill him. Gods make dangerous company (Iliad). And the further back we go into the past the more we lose ourselves in anachronisms. Numbers gives a real law code but assigns it to the wrong period. The narrator of Genesis is familiar with the camel as beast of burden and the goods it carried in his own time, but it is more than a millennium away from the Bronze age culture of Abraham and Joseph. So the story of Joseph has all the makings of a novel. Besides, one wonders what the Jewish Passover REALLY celebrates. It is a chilling thought to consider who in real life might have been this Angel of Death, who had murdered Egypts first born. The fugitive terrorists around Moses might have had a lot to atone for.    For the faithful the Prophets are an endless subject of fascination. Yet from the context it is quite clear that the recipients of prophetic messages did not exactly expect a piece of fortune telling. Prophets received their commissions for casting spells - mostly nasty spells. The folk tale of Balaams Ass (Num. 22) illustrates the method. The idea was to MAKE things happen, not to predict them. So we see the king of Babylon employ the Jewish(!) prophet Ezekiel to curse Tyrus (Ezek. 26.) Ezekiel performed as usual, (no other prophet could go so completely bonkers,) but the military follow up turned outto be difficult. So Ezekiel was commissioned for a second installment. True to form, he promised Egypt that it will be the robbers recompense for the hardship he had suffered with his first victim. (Ezek. 29.) I have no idea whether prophets got paid in advance or based on success, but obviously only reasonably successful spells were kept on record, which makes only a fraction of the large number of actual prophecies. Ambitious prophets better had a good portfolio, (1 Kings 22; Jerem. 28;) because with so many competitors on the case, one of them might actually get it right.     After the grand sweep of the Hebraic Bible, the New Testament is definitely a let down and should have been left out. For readers at a loss for where to begin, I recommend as an appetizer 1 Kings 13, a gem of Kafkaesque humor. A prophet receives the calling to deliver a message to his king on condition that he doesnt tarry on his way and does not take food and shelter even on his way back. But an elderly colleague cheats on the man and lures him into accepting food and shelter under the pretence of a divine vision of his own. So how is the traveller to know that God hadnt changed his mind? The two prophets sit at their meal when suddenly the spirit seizes the lying host and from his mouth issues genuine prophesy and announces to his perplexed guest that lions will eat him for his disobedience. And so it happens. The lying prophet who had caused the calamity feels remorse, searches the road for the corpse and buries him his own tomb  Oh brother! The whole Bible in a nutshell. A King James with all the apocrypha and the original preface of the translators committee in a nice cover - I couldnt think of any better deal for a lover of the English language and of darn good storytelling.	2001-06-02
US	49534502	R2MUHWQAKH6IC	0140446273	58983679	Virgil's Aeneid (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	18	28	N	N	VirgilÃ*s Aeneid? The quest continues	Virgil, with more justification than any Greek, could be hailed as the father of Western Literature. His work has set a benchmark for excellence. Dante referred to Virgil as his master, Dryden hailed Virgils 'Georgics as the perfect poem by the perfect poet. With the Aeneid, Virgil had set out to write another perfect poem, and almost succeeded. Its poetry communicates across the cultural barrier from a period which had made a science of oratory and banked its entire stock in learning and political persuasion on the fine art of oral delivery. I feel it still has an edge over our snazzy sound bites designed to titillate the 30 second attention span of hypnotized telly-junkies. Sustained arguments dont come as an ambush on your solar plexus.    Nabokov called Virgils poetry insipid, a curious verdict, coming from an admirer of Marcel Proust. But even Proust would have had a hard time had he tried to match Virgils subtle art of low key effects. Virgil was an extremely shy person, afflicted by tuberculosis, a sly smirk under a peasants heavy brow; he spoke with a rustic accent. Modern critics sometimes express disdain for passages in Virgils work, that look like the adulations of a servile courtier. But the Aeneids eulogies on the Imperial regime never exceed the noncommittal deference of a peasant, who gives Caesar what is Caesars, in order to be left unmolested, when he minds his own business. There are indications that after the upheavals in 23 BC. which had led to the downfall of Virgils patron and friend, the poet felt increasingly under pressure. It speaks for enormous talent that his best work was written on commission and not merely a product of gratuitous choice. Virgil could accepted limitations and expanded his talent from within proscribed boundaries  how many artists, even of the very greatest, can actually do this?    I have a profound respect for Dryden. His translation of Virgils 'Georgics' has added to our language one of its great revelations. Dryden was a devoted admirer of Virgil, and a great scholar, but of a very different temperament. His era has been called the age of the baroque, a period of ornate exuberance and redundant rhetorics. Science was still little understood but it became fashionable to mention Newtons laws and publicly to express a not entirely sincere snobbery in regard to superstition and pagan religions. So Drydens most difficult task as a translator was not just to be faithful to the original, but to ferry Virgils Aeneid across the cultural divide. There was little appreciation for the polish and subtlety of Virgils style, and Dryden wouldnt lose his sleep over unashamed padding: Meantime imperial Neptune heard the sound / Of raging billows breaking on the ground. / Displeas'd, and fearing for his wat'ry reign, / He rear'd his awful head above the main, // (and now the truly majestic touch:) // Serene in majesty; then roll'd his eyes / Around the space of earth, and seas, and skies. One almost regrets that Virgil hadnt thought of it. He only wrote :Interea magno misceri murmure pontum, / emissamque hiemem sensit Neptunus, et imis / stagna refusa vadis, graviter commotus; et alto / prospiciens, summa placidum caput extulit unda. (meantime great noise disturbed the sea, tossed forth a storm, stirred Neptune on the lowest floor, who, displacing waters of the deep, calmly raised his head above the highest wave) which creates a powerful enough image, though not quite of Drydens grandeur.     But for his padding, Dryden more than compensates with his absolutely ingenious use of transpositions. Look how Virgil puts his thoughts in sequence: There was an ancient city, inhabited by Tyrian husbandmen, Carthage, that faces from afar Ostia at the Tibers mouth, of great wealth and most warlike in its enterprise and being dear, its said, more than all the land to Juno, who even Samos held in less esteem. Here they kept her arms, here her chariot, and the goddess hatched designs and hopes for a capital of nations, should destiny permit. Yet surely she had heard that a race of Trojan issue was hereafter to overturn the Tyrian towers, a people born to rule and of warlike pride would lay waste her Lybia, according to destinies decree. And now compare how Dryden inverted this sequence to squeeze into his rhyming couplets the same amount of information and even throw in an additional explanatory note: Against the Tiber's mouth, but far away, / An ancient town was seated on the sea; / A Tyrian colony; the people made / Stout for the war, and studious of their trade: / Carthage the name; belov'd by Juno more / Than her own Argos, or the Samian shore. / Here stood her chariot; here, if Heav'n were kind, / The seat of awful empire she design'd. / Yet she had heard an ancient rumor fly, / (Long cited by the people of the sky,) / That times to come should see the Trojan race / Her Carthage ruin, and her tow'rs deface; / Nor thus confin'd, the yoke of sov'reign sway / Should on the necks of all the nations lay. This is a piece of sure-footed vigor and a rousing good read, but misses on Virgils slightly subdued and more reflective consideration of circumstances.     Virgils Aeneid is a great work of art. Neither Humphries nor Mandelbaums and especially not Fitzgeralds translation do it justice. If English is the only option, then Dryden is still a very agreeable compromise, even so it is a Virgil in disguise.	2001-05-31
US	49534502	R2SWBLW69Q6KF1	0671203231	224357917	Why I Am Not a Christian and Other Essays on Religion and Related Subjects	Books	4	4	22	N	N	Tasting the Fruit	I have always enjoyed reading Lord Russel, Voltaire or Oscar Wilde. Sharp witted but not too serious, they are like adults wading through a bunch of toddlers. Way back, when I had read this collection of essays for the first time, I could agree with almost everything. I grew up as a secular infidel, no apostasy, no heresy, no conversion, no debates, no nonsense. I am most definitely not a seeker. When I hear the voice of a theist, I hear the caveman drumming his chest. Faith is a poor method to build bridges, spirituality another word for preferring to be ignorant. I dont lose my sleep over contradictions in the Bible, proofs for His (or perhaps Her?) existence are not my favorite pastime. This part of Lord Russells book was lost on me. (Personally I thank my God every day, that he made me an atheist.)     But even for atheists there remains the question: what are we going to make of our life? Is it entirely up to us to decide? Or are we just pawns in a bigger game? Do choices matter? Mans growing power of intervention has put every other creature on the planet at the mercy of his involuntary custody. Are we suppose to accept responsibility? Is it all a game among losers - some earlier, some later? Personally, without giving in to the theists premise, I can comprehend a situation in which His (or Her) ways are not my ways and human morals are completely irrelevant in the larger scheme. Some may prefer to define their purpose as being a means to some unfathomable end, and others prefer to choose the burden of self-determination and responsibility. But is it really all about choice?    History is full of bad choices and their consequences. In the end everything comes down to one thing: By their fruit ye shall know them. Apologetic manoeuvring seeks refuge in the human factor. But this really doesnt cut it. I dont need a Ph.D. on Hitlers Mein Kampf to find the Nazis and the Nrenberg laws despicable. Generally I would agree, thatPeople pursue, torture and kill others because ... people are intolerant bigots who use religion ... to their own ends. ... Ideology becomes not a principle but a tool; [and] if your [favorite] group has not done this to anyone, it's likely because they've never had enough power to do so. (J.P. Holding) But when the same apologist continues: Every group that has had the power to do so has done this, from the pagans of Rome to the Crusaders to the Muslims and Hindus to the atheistic Communists of the modern day, then I must beg to differ.     History is a layered process, in terms of a Roman historian, the custom of nations, in which past customs generate laws of the present and commitments for the future. Without such mechanism the catalyst would be missing that creates the incitement to commit atrocities and anesthetizes the perpetrators conscience. As a rule people prefer to follow orders and knowing to have the law on your side is even better. Do I really need to remind of the torture-box experiments? It took a chairman Mao to unleash the appalling episodes in the cultural revolution. Even battle hardened conquistadors and crusaders asked for absolution after a massacre and for indulgences before. I have no illusions about human wickedness, but this doesnt change the fact that a catalyst is needed to put it in motion.     When Constantine issued his edict of tolerance, he legalized an institution which up to the present day sees it as her god-given right to persecute heretics, culture, learning, science and art, whenever and wherever they happen to dissent from doctrine. Russell witnesses to the effects Christianity has made on the actual turn of history which is distinctly different from what could have been without. Biblical religion, Islam, and the Catholic Church have proven to be the most effective catalysts of indoctrination and mind control prior to the introduction of nationalism and modern political ideologies. Few institutions influenced so profoundly secular legislation and our views on right and wrong.    We outgrew our prehistoric childhood, shouldnt we have outgrown adolescence and religion by now? And yet, we continue to brainwash the unsuspecting minds of our children in order to smother critical faculties in their infancy and the advocates of school prayer continue to ignore Matthew 6:6. There is a widely held perception, that religion would underpin the foundations of ethical behavior. But Lord Russell is not the only one who denies such connection, and he is right. Ethics had been around long before our species emerged from the rainforests and long before Cro-Magnon man would articulate his first religious thought. Why am I so sure? Because I wouldnt be around, had it not been for my distant ancestors, who for millions of years observed ethics of cooperation and subdued aggression and the sexual taboos on inbreeding.     I know of mans capacity to delude himself and fictionalize a meaning for meaningless situations. I also know that there is more to the Universe than is manifest in its physics. Before or after big bang, for all eternity pi () remains to be pi, whether there are circles or not. This has been a strangely comforting thought in my darkest hours. Though dated in parts, the book is still a very enjoyable read, and be it only for Lord Russells wicked humor.	2001-05-26
US	49534502	R2SL80IO1324NZ	0023671602	776687286	Descartes: Discourse On Method	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Was he for real?	The father of modern philosophy was also an innovative mathematician. But his philosophical enquiry was committed just to one question: &Ograve;Is there anything we can think of, which by the mere fact that we can think of it, is shown to exist outside of our thought? If yes is the right answer, there is a bridge from pure thought to things, if not, not&Oacute; (Bertrand Russell). Descartes, when prodded to it by his critics, was gracious enough to admit his debt to St. AugustineÕs ÔSiloloquia,Õ but pointed out that he had shifted the SaintÕs argument from the mere acquisition of knowledge to an existential statement, perhaps the only in its kind that creates an empirical fact by mere thinking: &Ograve;In dubito, in cogito, ergo sum.&Oacute;<br /><br />This first premise led Descartes to a number of valid deductions. Since he now was completely sure about his own existence, the former or eminent cause prior to his present state had to be equally real, and so all the causes prior to that. This of course is a sneaky way of saying that if the first cause argument should hold water, then it leads to something as real as myself. But does it? Why should the chain of prior causes ever come to a halt? After all &Ograve;Causation is not like a hired cab which one dismisses once it has arrived at its desired destination.&Oacute; (Schopenhauer) On the other hand, how can we be sure that there is any cause that would precede the present state of existence? Consciousness might be possible in on of at least 2 forms: either in the shape of an uninterrupted continuum, or as a discontinuous series of separate moments of awareness.<br /><br />Both possibilities may draw their perceptions from some sort of subliminal referent or memory bank, which would operate as the eminent cause for our existence. However a truly discontinuous sequence of brighter moments could just as well be operated by hypnotic suggestions, such as: &Ograve;whenever you awake, you remain oblivious to the fact that this is all you are aware of and you will append false memories of a past that never was.&Oacute; This is quite possible, as every able hypnotist will tell you. So even the perception of continual awareness might turn out to be illusory. An independent recording device could of course reveal the true nature of our awareness, (provided it isnÕt itself merely a figment, in which case it may repeat infinitely the same mental image, like an object placed between 2 facing mirrors.) Such recordings could testify to dramatic differences between separate moments of lucidity. Life would take us through a multitude of alternative worlds, but unfortunately only of one, the latest, can we ever be aware. (Confused? EverettÕs theorem proposes a similar thing for quantum physics.) Descartes himself hadnÕt seen these possibilities yet, but decided to keep things simple and proposed that thinking would &Ograve;prove&Oacute; the existence of an immortal and immaterial soul.<br /><br />However this compelled him to devote a lot of attention to animal intelligence. Because if animals can think, they too would have immortal souls. And since such conclusion grossly contravenes Christian theology and could have spelled serious trouble for the philosopher, this opened a whole new can of worms. Descartes had to prove that animals cannot think and therefore advanced the usual arguments, that animals cannot use language, that their behavior is not terribly adaptable, that their seeming exhibition of intelligence is actually guided by instinct, etc. But by addressing animals as &Ograve;soulless&Oacute; machines he opened himself wide for criticism, and materialists like LaMetrie, employed DescartesÕs own principles and applied them on man as a biological machine. (In a way, this discussion anticipates our present day debates on artificial intelligence. It even has a bearing on future explorations of deep space. If E.T. is out there but doesnÕt look as we expect it to look nor actsas we imagine it to act, then how do we recognize an intelligent life form?)<br /><br />But for the moment, Descartes felt he had covered all his bases and proposed his famous proof for the existence of God: &Ograve;... recurring to the examination of the idea of a Perfect Being, I found that the existence of such Being was comprised in the idea in the same way that the equality of its three angles to two right angles is comprised in the idea of a triangle, (sic! We shall remember that!) ... consequently it is at least as certain that God, who is this Perfect Being, is, or exists, as any demonstration of geometry can be.&Oacute; Now, this raises a question: Did Descartes really mean what he said? Because just one sentence before this &Ograve;proof&Oacute; we read this: &Ograve;I perceived that there was nothing at all in these demonstrations which could assure me of the existence of their object: ... for example, supposing a triangle to be given, I distinctly perceived that its three angles were necessarily equal to two right angles, but I did not on that account perceive anything which could assure me that any triangle existed ...&Oacute; Strange proof, that begins with its own refutation.<br /><br />I canÕt imagine that any of DescartesÕs numerous correspondents, failed to spot this slight of hand. But only Hobbes was rude enough to touch the sore. There was a reason for this discretion. Not too long ago, Giordano Bruno had been roasted alive over a slow fire, and Galilei, after a look at the thumbscrews, had retired from science. So you better covered your back with a few symbolic genuflections towards Rome. Descartes did, and thus he became the founder of modern philosophy and of postmodern insincerity as well, leaving it to the reader to figure what he really had meant to say. With this in mind, Descartes is still one of the most inspiring and original thinkers of the modern era.moment, Descartes felt he had covered all his bases and proposed his famous proof for the existence of God: ... recurring to the examination of the idea of a Perfect Being, I found that the existence of such Being was comprised in the idea in the same way that the equality of its three angles to two right angles is comprised in the idea of a triangle, (sic! We shall remember that!) ... consequently it is at least as certain that God, who is this Perfect Being, is, or exists, as any demonstration of geometry can be. Now, this raises a question: Did Descartes really mean what he said? Because just one sentence before this proof we read this: I perceived that there was nothing at all in these demonstrations which could assure me of the existence of their object: ... for example, supposing a triangle to be given, I distinctly perceived that its three angles were necessarily equal to two right angles, but I did not on that account perceive anything which could assure me that any triangle existed ... Strange proof, that begins with its own refutation. <BR> <BR>I cant imagine that any of Descartess numerous correspondents, failed to spot this slight of hand. But only Hobbes was rude enough to touch the sore. There was a reason for this discretion. Not too long ago, Giordano Bruno had been roasted alive over a slow fire, and Galilei, after a look at the thumbscrews, had retired from science. So you better covered your back with a few symbolic genuflections towards Rome. Descartes did, and thus he became the founder of modern philosophy and of postmodern insincerity as well, leaving it to the reader to figure what he really had meant to say. With this in mind, Descartes is still one of the most inspiring and original thinkers of the modern era.	2001-05-24
US	49534502	REAM2CPLPPDNO	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	2	6	19	N	N	And he was so gifted	Joyce had sometimes been called a writers writer. One reviewer even suggested we should give Ulysses the benefit of a doubt, for the same reason we uneducated lay-folk use to accept on sight modern physics or Einsteins Relativity theory. Now I can think of all sorts of definitions for the meaning and purpose of imaginative literature -- to serve as the arcane Cabala for the initiates of a secretive cult is not one of them. If a novel lacks what it takes to reach every conceivable kind of reader, regardless whether it is to be received as a pleasure or a nuisance, than it is a failure, plain and simple. I may detest what I read -- even successful novels dont come with a gun held to your head -- but Ulysses is simply an empty shell, nothing left to form an opinion or taste either way. A bad writer is just bad, because he cant cope adequately with his task. But there is also a possibility that I may detest a good writer for the waste of skill and talent on something I deem to be an unworthy or badly misguided effort. So even if I may not like what he has to say, I can still be impressed by the beauty and cogency of his delivery. I dont like it, but the man has something to say, and he says it well. But this here is different: can anybody tell me what else it possibly could be than the vain demonstration of stylistic skills from the portfolio of a great talent -- with absolutely nothing to say?    God knows, I am all for a reader who pays to a good authors work the respect it deserves and pitches in a bit of his own effort. This should entitle a good reader to carry home something worthwhile. However it is not just the Ulysses, I got the same impression from the entire work of James Joyce, even from his early poems. Except for a precious few luminous moments (the travel of young Steven in the train compartment, the damp and creeping cold atmosphere on the rugby pitch in the Portrait) it really amounts to little more than an exercise in the rhetorics of imaginative writing. It must be me, but I cant help feeling something amateurish in all this contrived effort. Call Joyce a genius, if you like, we all know he was determined to be remembered as the outstanding writer of the 20th century. And we do! We remember his legend the same way we remember Cervantes or Kafka before we open their books. An aura surrounds Ulysses, and this awe may even carry us through a few passages and purple patches, but thats where the comparison ends. Take away the halo from Cervantes and Kafka and you still enjoy a robust read -- I doubt the same can be said of Joyce. He had the gift, and he knew it, but even his consummate admiration for Ibsen didnt help him to find for himself a story worth telling, that is a story which would make his talent shine and captivate the reader.     Technically, Ulysses is a superb piece of narrative engineering. A myriad of leitmotifs and themes entwine, separate and meet again each delivered in a variety of different voices and styles. So, ok, a letter torn to tiny shreds into the river carries to a corresponding theme five chapters later, a piece of soap bought in the morning becomes an important item in late afternoon, a galaxy of town-folks revolve around each other and do their daily chores, though mostly in pubs, hospital-canteens and hostelries -- a tat one-sided should it ever become necessary to reconstruct Dublin from scratch. So our Mr. Bloom masturbates over the sight of a crippled girl -- the joke to write parts of this particular passage in the pseudo-elegant journalese of a turn of the century fashion magazine is lost on me: is it supposed to poke fun on the clich beset thoughts in the poor girls mind? In fact Joyce ventriloquizes a lot; all over the book the English language is taken through her paces like a dressage horse, nobody can deny the authors brilliance, and sometimes he even presents a superb artistic flash, like the gold coins the principle is handing out to Stephen. Yet even hereI see the author glancing sideways under his eyelids: are we really looking? Do we catch the moment? (Kafka did such things in his sleep.) So what does all this amount to, on some 800 pages, except to small change?     Yes, Ulysses has style, a whole museum of styles to be exact, and nothing but style. After you finish it, if you make it through, you will leave it behind like a confused dream, and forget it just as soon.	2001-05-16
US	49534502	R1J97B9Z8U99VB	0023055804	311217037	Theology of the New Testament: Complete in One Volume	Books	4	18	46	N	N	Reliable for what it is meant to be	&quot;Few areas of academic endeavor are so in need of public debunking as biblical studies. The physicist Richard Feynman coined the term &quot;Cargo Cult science&quot; to refer to literary speculation that tries to steal the authority of the physical sciences by using some of their vocabulary and format. Much the same relationship holds between such enterprises as the Jesus Seminar and the methods of serious historians.&quot; (John J. Reilly) I couldnÕt agree more, but having said this, the question is still legitimate to ask, who this guy might have been, who affected the course of history in so many ways, mostly unintended no doubt, but still as a catalyst and operative agent who set events in motion? Two answers seem possible: the &Ograve;guy&Oacute; was the fellow who invented the tale, and if we take it from there we look perhaps at a person known as St. John (- but I know I am at odds here with the majority of scholars, including Bultmann, who maintain that John was too late for that.) Or there was really a Jesus slouching about in bast sandals. If so, one has to admit it was one of the best kept secrets in the decades after his death. I shall leave it by that and recommend (I, of all people) a book of consummate New Testament scholarship: BultmannÕs classical ÔTheology of the New Testament.&Ograve;  BultmannÕs magisterial tome is the academic sum of a lifetime, continually revised and expanded with every new edition. What he was trying to do, was give an exposition of the teachings in the New Testament, according to their chronological order and function in the canon. It would be easy to criticize this as a rather arbitrary arrangement because of the way the &Ograve;canon&Oacute; originally had been assembled and separated from contemporaneous material that sometimes even had briefly enjoyed a place in the canon itself, before some or other Church council omitted it or condemned it to the limbo of &Ograve;heretic&Oacute; writings. (Such as &Ograve;The Shepherd of Hermas,&Oacute; or the &Ograve;Letter of Barnabas.&Oacute;) However Bultmann was not oblivious of the problem and quoted extensively from such sources. The premise of his book is of course that the canon took its shape the way it did for a reason and Bultmann has set out to explore and interpret this reason. But in order to do so, he also tries to establish a credible context. And this context means a gradual evolution through different stages of the &Ograve;kerygma,&Oacute; the &Ograve;proclamation&Oacute; of Christ. So from a hypothetical inner circle we move on to the earliest community in Jerusalem, then to Paul, to the Hellenistic Churches in the Diasporah, then to John, and the other apostolic letters as far as they influenced ecclesiastic organization and set legal precedents for the early Church(es). Fundamentalists will be in for a disappointment: their favorite read, the Apocalypse, is mentioned only in passing. And historians will be disappointed too. Bultmann gives us a very thorough interpretation of the unfolding teaching in the New Testament, but the attentive reader has to elicit the historical context himself.  If that is so Ð what could all this possibly tell us about the historical Jesus? Well, try seeing it in the reverse: if all those developments of the &Ograve;kerygma&Oacute; had indeed been developments away from an initial message, or at least expanded on it, then we see here a sort of pointing arrow, or conduit, that funnels us back to a not completely invisible point of departure. Bultmann even gleaned a whole set of sayings from the synoptic texts that seem to warrant a special status, because they fit badly into later developments. But the reader attempting to discover the &Ograve;true&Oacute; Jesus in this collection better braces himself for yet an other disappointment. Because not only will he find nothing particular divine in these snippets, it will hit him as a wave of hysterical outbursts by a mouth frothing fanatic, which in itself sounds about right, but hardly gives the impression Bultmann may have intended. Thumbs up for honesty.  Bultmann is one of those academic events, who like Mommsen for Roman history, or W.E.H. Lecky for religious history, not only laid once and for all the foundation, but almost left nothing more to be done for later generations. The reason, that their names have become less familiar with the wider public has something to do with the fact that subsequent generations of academics try to make a living on thoroughly plowed ground. But only in rare instances, in fact none I am aware of, do they manage to come up with something radically new. Of course there is still plenty of detail to discover, but it really belongs into an appendix to the work of the aforementioned giants. Perhaps I am just getting old, and lose my capacity for being surprised, but for now I must say, I have seen it all. For example the debate over JesusÕ historicity goes back to 1912 and even farther, when a certain Arthur Drews proposed that Christianity as a religion would actually be much better off with a mythical Christ than a disappointingly mundane fellow in the flesh. Bultmann used to evade such debates, but actually never wrote on anything else but the &Ograve;proclaimed&Oacute; Christ, though in a much better informed fashion and thoroughly familiar with every snippet of primary source available, which has earned him his reputation across the creeds. (In fact in his younger, more outspoken days, he was quite capable to deny any knowledge of JesusÕs historicity.) Taken for what the book is meant to be, it is still the most comprehensive gathering of facts on the subject, and recommended for reference.ne of those academic events, who like Mommsen for Roman history, or W.E.H. Lecky for religious history, not only laid once and for all the foundation, but almost left nothing more to be done for later generations. The reason, that their names have become less familiar with the wider public has something to do with the fact that subsequent generations of academics try to make a living on thoroughly plowed ground. But only in rare instances, in fact none I am aware of, do they manage to come up with something radically new. Of course there is still plenty of detail to discover, but it really belongs into an appendix to the work of the aforementioned giants. Perhaps I am just getting old, and lose my capacity for being surprised, but for now I must say, I have seen it all. For example the debate over Jesus historicity goes back to 1912 and even farther, when a certain Arthur Drews proposed that Christianity as a religion would actually be much better off with a mythical Christ than a disappointingly mundane fellow in the flesh. Bultmann used to evade such debates, but actually never wrote on anything else but the proclaimed Christ, though in a much better informed fashion and thoroughly familiar with every snippet of primary source available, which has earned him his reputation across the creeds. (In fact in his younger, more outspoken days, he was quite capable to deny any knowledge of Jesuss historicity.) Taken for what the book is meant to be, it is still the most comprehensive gathering of facts on the subject, and recommended for reference.	2001-05-11
US	49534502	R1CJXJILN6CASL	0671201581	635633775	A History of Western Philosophy	Books	5	12	17	N	N	Entertaining lucidity	There are many ways to understand the meaning of philosophy, but I believe Bertrand Russell himself had put it best: Is there anything we can think of which, by the mere fact that we can think of it, is shown to exist outside of our thought? Every philosopher would LIKE to say yes, because a philosophers job is to find out things about the world by thinking rather than observing. If yes is the right answer, there is a bridge from pure thought to things, if not, not.    Russell obviously had an eye to spot the bogus and Hegelians and Phenomenologists detest him for that. The dislike is mutual, I for my part can do perfectly well without Hegel, Heidegger and Derrida. I have a very wide reading in philosophy, but I stopped reading philosophy after I had finished with Kripke in the mid eighties. Since then I lean back and enjoy the show without engaging myself in any debate. But that much is apparent: of all philosophers from the 2oth century, Russell is probably the most educational and had been read by more lay-people than any other philosopher. Was that a bad thing? I would say definitely not. His book is still a good travel guide, written by a vociferous and independent mind and in a style of such clarity, that it cant help of sounding offensive especially to acolytes of oracular nonsense.    Having said this, I too here and there would prod the old man for an injustice, say about Immanuel Kant or Schopenhauer. In Kants case however, I can appreciate that we look not only at a fundamental difference of opinion, but differences in competence. Bertrand Russells own monumental contributions to mathematics and symbolic logic, entitle him to be a bit snobbish. Kants philosophy still employs a logical tool that seemed to have had barely advanced from Aristotle. It is a point only few critics ever raise, but Kant wasnt up to date even of the logical developments during his own era. So many points in his philosophy that seem to pertain to cognitive functions are actually not logical at all but belong to the set of generic conventions that seem to underpin our linguistic faculties. Its an honest disagreement, and the greater authority is on Russells side here. But he should have given more space to Charles Saunders Peirce, who, among many other things, picked up on Kants table of (basically Aristotelian) categories and put them into the context where they really belong. Russells scant treatment of Peirce who with some justice had been called the most original and the most versatile intellect that the Americas have so far produced is not so easy to forgive.    As for Schopenhauer I must say Russell, or his source, is just ill informed. Schopenhauer made his own valuable contributions to epistemology (see my review on Schopenhauers The Fourfold Root) which are of interest independently from Schopenhauers more idiosyncratic views expressesed in his later works. In fact by temperament he and Russell had much in common, Schopenhauer being Russels equally caustic and somewhat pigheaded Teutonic counterpart, and, like Russell, a great stylist in his language. If you want a more limited but more in debt overview on the history of philosophy in general up to Schopenhauers time, then read Schopenhauers essays On the Will in Nature and his Paerga and Paralipomena. Schopenhauer liked to see himself as standing on the shoulders of an illustrious line of philosophers since antiquity, the last link that lays the final stone. Every author creates his own pedigree, says Borges, himself a great admirer of Schopenhauer, and Schopenhauer was very good at creating such pedigree for philosophical ideas and following their course through history.    But the most telling omission is that of Russells own protege: Ludwig Witgenstein. After a brief honeymoon the two headstrong philosophers went on a long journey of irreconcilable differences, and I cant help siding with Russell on this. Witgenstein is gravely overrated these days, but apart from his unpleasant personality and the airs of a latter day saint he contributed very little worth speaking of to philosphy proper. Russell has the grace and malicious charm of Voltaire, and like him he was a great popularizer and educator. His History of Western Philosophy is worth every penny.	2001-05-11
US	49534502	R364HQY0N3DCRC	0804704864	309636005	The Complete Essays of Montaigne	Books	5	50	60	N	N	The voice of a good friend	Should I ever be forced to run away from war and disaster with nothing else but one book in a torn briefcase, or find myself at the business-end of a feeding tube in a hospital waiting for my last breather, then Montaigne would be a strong candidate to keep me company in this last and loneliest hour. Not that I have a hard time to choose, there is really only one other book I would consider, and it is most definitely not the bible, but Montaigne always conveyed to me the warmth and comfort of a good friend. Even when he sometimes loses me and prattles away on some obsession of his, it is like listening to your best friend without really listening, you are just glad he is there.  What is it about this Frenchman I wonder, that has endured for such a long period of time? Shakespeare too still speaks to us, but often in a somewhat muffled voice, time and distance are beginning to tell Ð but Montaigne, who predated Shakespeare and even provided Hamlet with a few clues and phrases, strikes us still as fresh and modern as ever. He is one of those writers of which I have read every line ever printed; and apart from his essays, the itinerary of his travel to Italy has always been of particular interest to me, because it describes places I used to know intimately. How could times have changed so much, and certainly not always to the better. But in Montaigne this remote period becomes alive again, its comforts (or the lack of it), its smells, its behaviors, and of course the food (Montaigne was French after all) maintain their tangible presence and a glow like the memories of a distant childhood.  Essays are supposed to enquire into some topic and come up with something conclusive to say about Ð well except for the real great essayists like Charles Lamb who never get that far to be conclusive on anything whatsoever. Same here. Montaigne is perhaps the earliest example in Western literature after the fall of Rome, of a writer who gives us &Ograve;nature seen through a temperament,&Oacute; (Zola) and Montaigne is nothing if not a temperament. Well read people may contest this and point to Franoise Villon or Chaucer as earlier examples Ð I wonÕt argue, but who of these gentlemen is still so very much alive as our Monsieur Montaigne? No dictionary or glossary needed, just snuggle up in your favorite armchair and enjoy. When going through Jean-Yves TadiÕs monumental biography of Marcel Proust I was surprised to find so little evidence that Proust should actually have cared very much for Montaigne. Given his time and curriculum it stands to reason that Montaigne had been a must read, too familiar to fuss about. Or the great novelist preferred for once to cover his tracks, because Proust can be seen in many ways, one would be as the other of the 2 greatest French essayists.  Authors have pedigrees (their favorite authors) and a reader has preferences (his favorite authors): if given the choice between Donne and Herbert I go for Dryden. (Really! ItÕs a bargain: you get Plutarch, Virgil, and Ovid as a bonus. Donne is just Donne, and Herbert just a case of well-spoken paranoia.) With Montaigne you open a window to the entire heritage of classic antiquity Ð sometimes it is like old gramophone recordings of long forgotten opera stars. In fact I always found Seneca a bearable read only in MontaigneÕs way of quoting him. Which brings us to the question which translation to use. I own both, Donald M. FrameÕs translation of the complete works, and CottonÕs staple translation of the essays. Which of the 2 comes closer to the tone of the original? Because despite a certain brand of bogus criticism in the vain of Northrop Frye and &Ograve;post modern deconstruction&Oacute; an authorÕs voice really matters. He might be many things, one of which is to be the messenger and witness of his own period, its concerns, its paraphernalia, its perspectives and smells, its way to express itself. So, without putting down Mr. FrameÕs seminal accomplishment, I for onceshall hold on to my old Hazlitt edition of CottonÕs translation, and put Frame out on sale. It may not be the slickest read around, but at least the pacing and the rhythms of CottonÕs prose are the closest thing you can get of the original and it has earned Montaigne a citizenship in our own language.	2001-05-08
US	49534502	R3A3TEMTF0OUKQ	0805209999	969973930	The Trial: A New Translation Based on the Restored Text (The Schocken Kafka Library)	Books	5	10	14	N	N	Ã'KafkaesqueÃ" all the way	Not until 1982 had I formed a clear idea for the meaning of the term &Ograve;kafkaesque.&Oacute; The revelation came when I found myself trapped in the middle of Prague, KafkaÕs hometown, on a crossroad that received one way lanes from every direction. It was real and surreal and frightening and comical, but nothing dreamy about it. I knew, if I tried to get myself out of this situation, there would inevitably be a very real cop just waiting to give me a very real ticket,. And he did. He was drunk and rather shabbily uniformed.  For many years in my early teens, I had KafkaÕs ÔTrialÕ on my bedside table. If you want to learn German, this is the book for you. It comes in simple and straightforward language. Kafka was a great admirer of Flaubert and his maxim to tell extraordinary things in ordinary language. So whatever KafkaÕs translators may say, Kafka does not exactly pose a linguistic challenge. Still there are differences. The Muirs' translation, prior to MitchellÕs, is still a respectable piece of late Victorian imitation furniture. But Mitchell does improve, no doubt. However the actual order of the chapters in this unfinished novel is still open to questions -- MitchellÕs editors chose to be conservative. As it stands, the &Ograve;Trial&Oacute; is a great step forward from KafkaÕs first novel ÔAmerica!Õ which was written under the influence of Oliver Twist. It has many scenes of burning intensity and a sensual quality, Kafka himself never matched again. However the American backdrop is cut from cardboard and not very convincing. Kafka always had a problem to convey a sense of locality if it wasnÕt his hometown. Any reader of KafkaÕs &Ograve;Castle&Oacute; faces the same problem, the interiors come to life vividly enough, but the geography is curiously vague. The &Ograve;TrialÕs&Oacute; setting is Prague, and it shows.  This is perhaps KafkaÕs most guilt-stricken story. From scene to scene the shadows thicken until Joseph K.Õs providential encounter in the mystical bleakness of the Cathedral. I refuse to speculate on the meaning in all of this, however I would advise against fetching too far for an interpretation. The language is straightforward but still loaded with little pointers and puns. For instance: the protagonist (Joseph K.) has a crush on a certain Miss ÔBrstner.Õ This name is derived from the verb &Ograve;brsten&Oacute; Ð German for &Ograve;brushing,&Oacute; which in German is also a vulgar euphemism for sexual intercourse; and this is no coincidence. There is sex all over the place: the protagonist has an affair with his attorneyÕs maid, shabbily dressed judges simply carry away women into their chambers, during Joseph KÕs conversation with the painter, you hear the painterÕs models giggle in the background.  Notice the running parallel between illicit sex and dingy justice. The Viennese critic Karl Kraus had published a series of essays under the title &Ograve;The Chinese Wall.&Oacute; In it Kraus attacked AustriaÕs legal system and spoke up in defence of prostitutes. Kafka knew Kraus, he attended his public readings, and he might have picked up on a phrase Kraus liked to scream at his audience. It began with: &Ograve;Because justice is a whore ... ,&Oacute; (which no doubt it is.) In KafkaÕs novel the courts convene in the strangest places, in attics and lofts, under the rafters of top floors, in sub-tenancies of housing projects. This strange judicial system never allows to approach the upper echelons, but the lower charges are beggarly and sly. The whole state seems to be afflicted by an underground conspiracy, and you never know whether your friendly janitor isnÕt one of them. If it were ancient Rome, you could say the slaves are judging their masters.  Joseph K. himself is a somewhat aloof and haughty character, not un-typical for a senior manager. K. works for a bank and he is a sharp dresser and moves with ease in circles of attorneys, chief administrators and CEOs. Kafka lifted out of the text the key-parable, &Ograve;Before the Law&Oacute; and published it separately in a collection of shorter pieces. It is difficult to put your finger exactly on the meaning of this famous parable, but it certainly gives the entire novel in a nutshell. In the era of Stalin and McCarthy and after the horrors of the death-camps it has became fashionable to read into KafkaÕs novel a brooding indictment against oppression and persecution. I am not so sure: itÕs a tough call, because he is never told the charges, yet something seems to be expected of Joseph K., a change of heart perhaps, or a sign of redeeming humility, but K. remains unchanged, his ordeal merely infuses an ever more deepening gloom. One of the great paradigms of modern literature.cult to put your finger exactly on the meaning of this famous parable, but it certainly gives the entire novel in a nutshell. In the era of Stalin and McCarthy and after the horrors of the death-camps it has became fashionable to read into Kafkas novel a brooding indictment against oppression and persecution. I am not so sure: its a tough call, because he is never told the charges, yet something seems to be expected of Joseph K., a change of heart perhaps, or a sign of redeeming humility, but K. remains unchanged, his ordeal merely infuses an ever more deepening gloom. One of the great paradigms of modern literature.	2001-05-05
US	49534502	R1VB5XYH540N3P	0231073372	268495598	The Pillow Book of Sei Shonagon	Books	5	13	20	N	N	Ã'A manÃ*s heart is a shameful thingÃ"	Can and should literature change your life? I really donÕt know. But I do know that some books convey a sense of magic that adds to our life a grace, we wouldnÕt have felt without.  And this might even become a question of life and death, say, war drives you out of your home and into exile and all your belongings fit just into one briefcase, or you are an astronaut, ready to launch for the inner moons of Jupiter and the manifesto allows only one paperback per crew-member, which book, my friend, would YOU take with you? My choice is pretty clear, certainly NOT the Bible, but it would be a tough call to decide between MontaigneÕs Essays and ÔThe Pillow-bookÕ of Sei Shonagon. (And then I hear the whisper of a soft spoken voice that conceals so perfectly a subtle intellect: &Ograve;Carpenters have such peculiar customs of eating their meals.&Oacute;)  It was the time when Vikings discovered America and drank from the sculls of their enemies and Europe wallowed in filth and ducked meekly behind infested moats, but Lady Shonagon had nothing better to do than to record that under-robes of red silk were especially impressive, or how she took bets on the out of season survival of an artificial snow-mountain. &Ograve;A lover that in the morning rushes about to collect his kit and mutters under his breath grabbing under the mat for his socks Ð how I hate him.&Oacute; (Oh, oh, he blew it!) The delight I have received from Lady ShonagonÕs Pillow-book is incomparable. It is so much more than a code of conduct, and how to do it gracefully. It is her quick witted response to the most minute sensations in her surrounding Ð the monotonous creaking of her carriageÕs axle, the swishing of a curtain in the dormitory Ð it is the thoroughly artistic temperament, the eye for paraphernalia, little gestures and the crease in your trousers, the tick in someoneÔs way of holding up a book, the sheer boredom of &Ograve;spiritual&Oacute; sessions at the annual retreat into a monastery (but then the ardently praying gentleman next door is such a pretty sight to see.) &Ograve;But the most boring time of all is when it rains.&Oacute;  ShonagonÕs Japan was still a world apart from the super-hygienic land of Toyota and Toshiba and the fully computerized toilet seat next to the Tatami matted living room. The Ladies and Gentlemen at the Heian court slept on rolled out straw mats, shivered through winter and sweated through summer, scratched the lice-bites, dressed in fumigated silk robes, and bathed once a year Ð if at all. The ladies plucked their eyebrows and colored their teeth in black and would never show themselves naked, even not in their most intimate moments. But handwriting was expected to be neat, and a thunderclap shall hit you on the loo, if you ever forget to follow up your latest tte--tte with a proper love letter hanging from a dew dripping plum-tree twig, to be delivered only minutes after departure (about 4.30 am.) Courtiers then seemed to have found little sleep at night, and rotated through the roster of their mistresses, and perhaps once a year visited even their own wives, but letÕs not turn family life into a boring habit. &Ograve;I cannot bear men to eat when they come to visit ladies in the palace.&Ograve;  My problem is, even if she should allow me to sit down at her curtain of state, I cannot talk to her -- I donÕt speak or read Japanese. I depend on translations. I have translations into 3 languages of her book and a vague idea which might be the best of the lot. The most complete edition is in English and unfortunately it is translated by Ivan Morris; unfortunately, because it is almost unbearably pedestrian. Sei Shonagon must be a very great writer indeed, still to come across the way she does in MorrisÕ rendering. The annotations thrown in are good and scholarly, but I recommend to ignore them for a first reading. WaleyÕs translation testifies to the fact that an undoubtedly gifted translator can be incrediblyinsensitive to the artistic merits of his text: the way Waley rearranged the order of the entries destroys all the natural charm and grace of the original Ð boo! The best translation and the least complete of them all, is by the Japanese translator Mamoru Watanab, and it is not into English.  &Ograve;One arrives after nightfall in an unfamiliar place. For fear of being too conspicuous, one refrains from lighting a lamp but prefers to sit near the other people, even though they are hidden in the dark ...&Oacute; My sweetheart, who has an enormous capacity for jealousy, always accuses me to be in love with the poetess I am just reading, be it Sappho, Miss Winterson or Else Lasker-Schler. Well, it is true, I never fell out of love with Sei Shonagon.of the entries destroys all the natural charm and grace of the original  boo! The best translation and the least complete of them all, is by the Japanese translator Mamoru Watanab, and it is not into English.    One arrives after nightfall in an unfamiliar place. For fear of being too conspicuous, one refrains from lighting a lamp but prefers to sit near the other people, even though they are hidden in the dark ... My sweetheart, who has an enormous capacity for jealousy, always accuses me to be in love with the poetess I am just reading, be it Sappho, Miss Winterson or Else Lasker-Schler. Well, it is true, I never fell out of love with Sei Shonagon.	2001-05-05
US	49534502	R2ABW9N818ZLPH	0415149533	276663200	The History of Rome (Early Sources in Classics)	Books	5	46	51	N	N	Forbidding Price Ã but itÃ*s worth it	First a word about Theodor Mommsen. He came to Roman history with a background in practicing law and as an MP and legislator. His position in the house was that of a -- how shall I put it -- radical liberal nationalist, a rare colour these days, where liberalism has become a term of abuse. He fiercely opposed the politics of Otto von Bismarck who just had defeated France and reunited Germany. So the perspective on constitutional law that underpins Mommsens entire work, came naturally to him, the old Roman understanding of history as the Custom of Nations had found a kindred soul and a speaker of supreme eloquence. In 1902, Mommsen received, as the first and only historian ever, the Nobel-prize for literature. (Churchill too had the Midas-touch for the language, he too was a politician, his compilations make a highly entertaining read, but his contribution to academic history was purely oratorical.) Mommsen was an outspoken opponent to centralization, bureaucracy and anti-Semitism, but had the misfortune to coin a phrase which later the Nazis should turn to their own advantage: in his Roman History he described the Jews in exile as an element of national decomposition, of course without suspecting that anybody could pick up on this and use it in a more current context. Mommsen didnt live to witness the damage.    Mommsens most important contribution to Roman history is the editing and publishing of the monumental Corpus Inscriptionum Latinarum, which, if I am not mistaken, has reached by now volume 127. We lesser mortals are not likely to see this on our bookshelves at home, but for the archaeologist and historian it is an indispensable tool. It is a complete survey of all the epigraphs and inscriptions unearthed anywhere in the Roman Empire and an ongoing project since 150 years and for as long as we continue to discover more inscriptions. Through it we know, for instance, that Pilate was not, as the gospels claim, a procurator, but a legate, and hence not accountable to the legate of Syria, which explains a good deal of the reckless atrocities during Pilates tenure. From this collection we also gain statistical insights on the average distribution of epigraphs and, corresponding to it, the degree of literacy in different parts of the empire at different times. Mommsen himself considered as his main contribution his studies on Roman constitutional law and his editions of Roman law codices. He also discovered, edited, and published the queen of all inscriptions, Emperor Augustus Res Gestae: the princeps resume of his deeds and accomplishments.    But what Mommsen made famous and earned him the Nobel-prize, had originally been a mere potboiler, produced with incredible speed. Then Mommsen stopped in the middle of the work, only to take it up many years later for a 2 volume appendix on the Empires provinces. And yet this Roman History is the thing to have on your shelf, if you are interested in the subject. I still can recall my awe when I turned the pages for the first time. Dont get me wrong, this is not exactly a thriller, more a series of political and legal deductions on historical facts with a view on shifts and amendments in the Roman constitution. The story hovers in the background and Mommsen explains the meaning. But what explanation it is! The first few pages introduce us to Italys prehistory and deduce the paraphernalia of Indo-European migrations and early Roman society simply from the dictionary of the Latin language! It is mind-boggling suggestive. We hear of the early institutions, of Kings councilors who eventually formed the republics senate, but under the Etruscian Kings merely had the right to say yes. Not much of a right you may think and it did not include the right to say no, but one can always keep silent. (You disagree? -- Yes!! Blimey.)    Then Mommsen moves on to the Punic wars and to the elder Catos prosecution of foreign cults on Italys soil, which created a precedent that affected the prosecution of Christians some 200 years later. Mommsen discusses in great detail the introduction of the revolutionary office of the tribune and how the Gracci used the tribunicia potestas to blunt the executive powers of the Senate and briefly managed to assume the position of an (elected) head of state who was not a consul. Their revolutionary legislation however was soon to be overturned in Sullas conservative counter-revolution, which in turn mobilized the popular parties to bring a certain Caesar into power. But even in Mommsens glowing eulogy Caesar is little more than a gifted politician and general whose political ambition made him commit high treason and suspend the constitution. Mommsen stopped here. Characteristically the end of the Republic and its democratic institutions was for him the end of history proper -- Mommsen could never bring himself to write about the emperors. In his eyes this would have amounted to little more than a gossipy chronicle of court scandals; and for this we have Gibbon. Still it would have been interesting. At times opinionated and irate, Mommsen had a knack for outrageous statements and we catch glimpses of it in his later survey on the Roman provinces. He called Domitian, who according to Tacitus had been the best hated Emperor of his period, the most careful administrator who ever graced the empire. Or read Mommsens comment on Euripides and what he thinks about the poets influence on Hellenistic humanitarianism. It makes you put down the book and pause for a moment: What did he just say? Is he serious?    I could go on and drool endlessly, it would never do justice to Mommsens work. If you cant shell out [the money] than go to your library and borrow it through the interlibrary exchange, but make sure you have enough time at your hand, really to sink your teeth into it.	2001-04-25
US	49534502	R29W5INPQ9IOYW	0394712439	863473949	Remembrance of Things Past Volumes 1-3 Box Set	Books	3	9	21	N	N	3 stars, but itÃ*s not MarcelÃ*s fault	Before we are going to lose ourselves in superlatives, a few pointers might be in place:    (1) Prousts novel had been published this side of the turning century and therefore it counts as Frances contribution to the modernist movement of the 20th century. It is not. It still belongs to the Victorian three deckers of the 19th century, in a class with Tolstoy and Eliot, the English novelist, whom Proust admired most.    (2) When going through Jean-Yves Tadis monumental biography of Marcel Proust I found little evidence that Proust actually cared very much for Montaigne. Given his time and curriculum it stands to reason that Montaigne had been a must read, too familiar to fuss about. But with both, I feel the same warm hospitality oozing from the pages, just to sit down for a good gossipy read.     (3) This is a French novelist, with a French education, a French perspective on things, a French sensibility, and a French delight in surrounding absolutely everything in an iridescent halo of words. And by the way! Should you ever try to read the thing in one go, make sure you have plenty of leisure. Sell your telly and dont go to the movies; keep your sex life to a minimum. And should you not speak French, you have a problem. Against all appearances, Prousts Gallic, gently malicious wit, his belle esprit is really there, but in this translation it tramples along on heavy feet.     My French too is not quite up to the task of reading Proust the way he should be read, so like many I depend on Moncrieffs translation -- there is only his, in several editorial revamps, none of which has much to speak for itself. For instance we read in Swanns Way: ... a reflection of the sunlight had contrived to slip in on its golden wings, remaining motionless, between glass and woodwork, in a corner like a butterfly poised upon a flower. This is Victorian imitation kitsch. And what did Proust write? ... a reflection of the sunlight had made its yellow wings slip in and remainedmotionless, between glass and woodwork, in a corner, like a folded butterfly. Less of cheap glitter, more sensuality. Am I nitpicking? Is this not a trifle of little consequence? Well, Im sorry, but if you really want to read Proust, this is the meat of the matter. Whatever else it might be, Prousts novel is a complete world in itself, projected and laid out in the most elaborate mosaic ever; and every little majolica shard counts.     Every author creates his own pedigree, says Borges somewhere and Proust took great pains to establish a huge family tree that reaches down all the way to Rousseau and St.Augustine who provided the overall form for Prousts novel, the analytical confession. Most of us, especially in the translation, will miss out on all the little touches and mocking voice imitations of countless French authors, nobody outside of France has ever heard of. Ventriloquism is an act of comedy and this element is surely lost. Personally I think of Proust, as a great French essayist. Try to forget for a moment that the Recherche comes as a novel: we would still be left with a whole plethora of essayistic genres: character sketches, explorations into the world of plant and beast, meditations on sexuality and the nature of time, all of which could exist independently of its context. Another French, Emile Zola I believe, characterized art as nature seen through a temperament, and Proust exactly fits the description.    Sometimes we heard Proust insisting that his novel had the architecture of a Gothic cathedral -- which reminds me of a heated debate we students once had, whether it was possible to build a cathedral or the pyramids like bees construct their hives. I really dont know the answer, but I suspect Prousts cathedral might support the honey-comb theory. I mean once we get to the bottom of his multi-layered technique there is not much of a story left to go anywhere. James Joyce is one of the few authors in English who received an education verysimilar to Marcel Prousts, and even roughly at the same time. There was not much else the two had in common, Prousts family swam comfortably on the upper end of Frances bourgeoisie, while Joyces Irish parents were most of the time broke and struggling. But by and large he of all contemporaries certainly had the credentials to pass judgement; and he characterized Prousts sentences as predictable. Geniuses alone in their rarefied atmosphere -- lesser mortals like us, are not included. I for once, rather enjoy the surprises.     And of course, Proust did create real characters, as real as anybody I know in the real world, but they seem not much to be doing, except for having pleasant conversations, frequent aristocratic dinner tables, fret over their latest crush and occasionally visit the museum. Thats alright, most of us dont do much else, especially after retirement, but do we really need 3.000 pages to read about? Even Proust seems to agree that we dont, so he regales us to countless batches of his Gallic pastiches, and they are sure worth reading, though they lack the sinuous muscle of Voltaire. Proust can be flabby at times. But so did Montaigne and once you feel comfortable in your armchair, you dont really mind and just enjoy the hospitality. Ok, this might not be quite fair. Only the first two volumes had been published during Prousts own lifetime. These volumes in fact do show considerable unity and architecture. Proust was every publishers nightmare and liked to edit copiously the galley proofs, who knows what this could have done to the other 4 volumes. As it is, we see a warehouse full of fluffy stuff, wrapped in plenty of scented cotton wool. But the chrysanthemums are really good.	2001-04-24
US	49534502	RGBC6FYPGWPEZ	0679602860	655554658	Don Quixote de La Mancha (Modern Library)	Books	4	1	4	N	N	SanchoÃ*s Dream	For the record: there is no such thing as a classic; only authors who ran out of copyright. This is literature, not a museum. Books do date and become moldy like everything else: only a few, like wine improve their vintage, but many just lose their bloom. The worst thing that can happen is a college teacher who plants into the studentÕs mind a notion that a book is great and an absolute must read, because, well guess, because his own teacher told him so. And so the poor student sets out on the quest, to find out what the heck could possibly be so great about this blasted thing. And that is when it even gets worse. Not to look retarded or uneducated, the student becomes a teacher himself and instructs his students how great a book this is ... .  This doesnÕt mean that old books have always to be an easy read. It is quite alright if a teacher is doing his job and actually points out where to look, and what to look for, and is telling his students what kind of gear is needed to get there. If it is there, the student will find it, whatever &Ograve;it&Oacute; might be. If not -- see above. Having said all this, ÔDon QuixoteÔ definitely is a book that grew under the authorÕs hand and turned into something Cervantes hadnÕt anticipated when he wrote the first chapter. The lack of plan in the first part is painfully obvious, we really could do without the inlaid novelettes from CervantesÕ potboiler. Apparently, the book had had a bad editor, or none at all. What compensates is the fact that Cervantes managed the rarest of all feats: to create the bookÔs own legend almost from the moment it was publicized. The legend has lasted and still lasts, which is every add-executiveÕs dream. Cervantes did it single-handed and all by himself -- but never earned even a fraction of an add-executiveÕs income. Makes you wonder. Why the hell do we write books?  I venture a bold proposition: if children or men beyond the viagra-barrier (the equivalent of the menopause) are telling you they like the ÔDon Quixote,Ô even enjoy it, they probably speak the truth. If girls and women and most men in their full sexual prowess make such claim, they are probably lying through their teeth. Just try recalling all the incidents of this book: isnÕt it the melancholic fantasy of a man who knows that he has passed his prime? Who can see himself doing childish things again, because he just found out, that nothing really matters? But Cervantes was not a nihilist, he would rather live in a world where the rules of chivalry maintain a modicum of application. He also knows they donÕt. So he sits down and daydreams a character that is not exactly his alter ego but an object of his empathy, someone who found a way to live through CervantesÕ own predicament, and in the end he simply let him die a &Ograve;good&Oacute; death. Kafka even suspected, that Don Quixote is just a dream in Sancho's mind -- a child might agree; the elderly will nod knowingly to the DonÕs kidney condition. And the rest of us? Do we really want to know?  Not every old translation is outmoded or &Ograve;bad.&Oacute; Ovid was a wit; so to translate his ÔMetamorphosesÕ into DrydenÕs mock-heroic couplets is perfectly adequate, and a riot for BrocaÕs centre. However, the same standard applied on Virgil destroys the very qualities of his style: subtlety and melos. DrydenÕs vigor juggernauts roughshod across VirgilÕs delicate world of veiled suggestions and carefully arranged low key settings Ð here, more modern attempts are certainly justified. In fact I still donÕt see an English Virgil anywhere yet. On the other hand would anybody actually dream to read Rabelais in any other translation than Sir Thomas UrquardÕs? Not if we want to read Rabelais! Cervantes ÔDon QuixoteÕ had been &Ograve;done&Ograve; by Thomas Shelton (1612), P.A. Motteux (1743), John Ormsby (sometime in the 1800), Samuel Putnam, and lately Barton Raffel. Each and everyone has merits. None of them are downright bad, but if you want to hear the authorÕs voice in a version that is still close enough to the time and life of Cervantes to catch some of the smells (it stank!), the brutal gusto of practical humor, the cruelties of the general outlook without the ballast of romantic notions a modern reader is often asked to read into the book -- then, well then, MotteuxÕs translation is the only option, and it is a good option.  Of course it requires a reader who actually is interested in what the author has to say; a reader who understands that despite portions of a more universal appeal, there speaks a voice from the past and a witness to the paraphernalia of a very different world. To &Ograve;translate&Ograve; this into a &Ograve;modern&Oacute; idiom, slick and slangy that would suit our TV-trained Pavlovian giggle-response to silly sound-bites, would be the next thing to publicly performed necrophilia. I repeat: not every modern translation is junk, some are competent and full of good intentions, the kind that pave the road to hell, but translating should not replace an authorÕs carefully crafted style with the jargon of another period, even if this should strike the naive reader as catching. But then, this is Cervantes, an author who couldnÕt care less about the stylistic obsessions that possessed a Flaubert or Joyce. Yet it has at least to be the style of his period to get the right feel for the DonÕs adventures. And even Cervantes had moments when his dialog spread wings and soared, though not too often.authorÕs voice in a version that is still close enough to the time and life of Cervantes to catch some of the smells (it stank!), the brutal gusto of practical humor, the cruelties of the general outlook without the ballast of romantic notions a modern reader is often asked to read into the book -- then, well then, MotteuxÕs translation is the only option, and it is a good option.  Of course it requires a reader who actually is interested in what the author has to say; a reader who understands that despite portions of a more universal appeal, there speaks a voice from the past and a witness to the paraphernalia of a very different world. To &Ograve;translate&Ograve; this into a &Ograve;modern&Oacute; idiom, slick and slangy that would suit our TV-trained Pavlovian giggle-response to silly sound-bites, would be the next thing to publicly performed necrophilia. I repeat: not every modern translation is junk, some are competent and full of good intentions, the kind that pave the road to hell, but translating should not replace an authorÕs carefully crafted style with the jargon of another period, even if this should strike the naive reader as catching. But then, this is Cervantes, an author who couldnÕt care less about the stylistic obsessions that possessed a Flaubert or Joyce. Yet it has at least to be the style of his period to get the right feel for the DonÕs adventures. And even Cervantes had moments when his dialog spread wings and soared, though not too often.	2001-04-21
US	49534502	R3EZDS5MRXMQO1	0595130577	986640088	The Crucifixion of Hyacinth: Jews, Christians, and Homosexuals from Classical Greece to Late Antiquity	Books	5	16	22	N	N	More than just a &quot;homosexual Issue&quot;	Most of the books I have read on the subject of antique sexuality were written under the aspect of socioeconomic analysis.    There is an undeniable connection between, say, dowry customs and liberality in the practice of sexual orientations, or between inheritable land and the required virginity of a bride. Matriarchal societies don't allow the male to inherit land, his wife is subject to visits from her husband on the premises of her own clan, but the couple never moves in together, and the bride's clan pays a recompense for the time of his absence from his own people.    There is an incentive here, to look for more than one sexual outlet and it is generally accepted.  Systems of this kind seem to have evolved from prehistoric agriculture and matrilinear bronze-age dynasties. Evidence for a &quot;patriarchal revolution&quot; that finally overturned the old establishment has left traces not only in classic literature and the Bible: the Amarna tablets testify to upheavals among pastoral Canaanites who are depicted more like social outcasts than a separate tribe or invading nation. The movement finally carried the day against their urban masters -- or rather mistresses -- and that may explain the fanaticism and retentive taboos of the early Hebraic religion, when grumpy old Yahweh still had many peers. The Bible can be read in many ways, it also is a warcry for male dominance (Gen. 2:21), and yes, in many places it is a testimony to homophobia.    In Greece and Italy the situation was not very much different from Palestine. Patriarchs took the helm and remodelled the economy and their sex-life, but with a significant difference: in Palestine the Jews had always been a minority surrounded by matriarchs; in Italy and Greece only two matriarchal enclaves survived the early iron-age: the Etruscans and the Spartans.  Both were feared by their neighbors for their warlike prowess and very little understood socially.  In Palestine the pressure created a need for fanaticism and monotheistic unity.  In Greece and Rome fanatic asceticism was confined to the mystery cults -- the official line was a laid back polytheism.    Therefore I was surprised that the author had missed his most important link in his presentation of pagan asceticism: the Orphic cult, which at Europe's Mediterranean shores was the first to introduce the ideals of chastity, asceticism and taboos on homosexuality. It was a widespread undercurrent of classical culture, much more popular and influential than any single philosopher.    Mr. Puterbaugh's assessment of Plato and Socrates, is, by and large, based on Popper, but I think Plato was too much of an aristocrat ever to leave the boys alone. Only after Viagra couldn't have done its thing anymore he wrote the &quot;Laws&quot; and turned completely into a fascist prig, who not only frowned on homosexuality, but recommended inquisitions, star chambers, secret trials, censorship and euthanasia.  And this is a connection which should concern everyone of us: A sexually intolerant legislation ALWAYS comes with some sort of totalitarian agenda. How the historical Socrates fits into this picture is a matter of opinion. This smug enemy of Athens' democracy has never been my favorite saint, and on his trial the court jester and protege of the 30 tyrants had it coming. (Just imagine, with nothing on your mind but minding your own business, you suddenly find yourself cornered by Socrates and his aristocratic companions who jeer him on to humiliate you in a dialectical cat-and-mouse game of leading questions. Who would not be fed up and pay back?)    On the whole Mr. Puterbaugh's exposition of pederasty and homosexuality as an accepted practise from Homer's time up to the closing of Roman male-brothels is accurate, very true -- and nothing new.  Which is a shame: after two centuries of competent scholarship on the subject, the facts still need to reach a wider audience, and this is what the author had set out to do, before he couldmove on to his indictment of the one agent who has caused the modern homophobia in legislation and public perception.    So Puterbaugh's attack on Philo and Clement struck me first as unfairly hostile. The reason is something, I should be ashamed of: I have read of Philo only &quot;De Legatione&quot; and of Clement only a few Gnostic bits and pieces of a more benign nature. So it is easy to be tolerant simply out of ignorance. Things look different if you speak for a mistreated minority. <br />But the last quarter of the book really wraps it up. The evidence from late Roman legislation and its enforcement is the darkest thing I have read for a long time. Of course it was part of my job description to know these things, but they use to come in a more diluted form, as dissipated details of a wider picture, easily lost in a flood of trivia. And after all, empires don't fall for simple causes, or do they? Laws and regulations tell us what people think and fear, and sometimes it is good to remember what &quot;history&quot; meant for a Roman: the &quot;custom of nations.&quot;    When bundled up in this concentrated form as presented here, I really wonder how anybody can propose that history would have taken a similar turn if there had been no Church and no Christian religion. This was more than an instrumental coincidence, this was the ecclesiastical impact on actual legislation, for crying out loud; it motivated perfectly decent people to commit atrocities on a colossal scale and then successfully anesthetized the conscience of the perpetrators. Times were different then, true enough, but what we see here is a deliberate effort to switch off the lights, and from the result, one must say, they succeeded.  Ancient civilization may have ended anyway, but not like this. If you expected a quick review on ancient sexual practices and what changed it, prepare yourself for more than you had bargained for -- 177 pages brimming full of facts. Money well spent.	2001-04-21
US	49534502	REXQDI5QFRE5Y	0679407588	655554658	Don Quixote (Everyman's Library)	Books	4	4	13	N	N	SanchoÃ*s Dream	For the record: there is no such thing as a classic; only authors who ran out of copyright. This is literature, not a museum. Books do date and become moldy like everything else: only a few, like wine improve their vintage, but many just lose their bloom. The worst thing that can happen is a college teacher who plants into the studentÕs mind a notion that a book is great and an absolute must read, because, well guess, because his own teacher told him so. And so the poor student sets out on the quest, to find out what the heck could possibly be so great about this blasted thing. And that is when it even gets worse. Not to look retarded or uneducated, the student becomes a teacher himself and instructs his students how great a book this is ... .  This doesnÕt mean that old books have always to be an easy read. It is quite alright if a teacher is doing his job and actually points out where to look, and what to look for, and is telling his students what kind of gear is needed to get there. If it is there, the student will find it, whatever &Ograve;it&Oacute; might be. If not Ð see above. Having said all this, ÔDon QuixoteÔ definitely is a book that grew under the authorÕs hand and turned into something Cervantes hadnÕt anticipated when he wrote the first chapter. The lack of plan in the first part is painfully obvious, we really could do without the inlaid novelettes from CervantesÕ potboiler. Apparently, the book had a bad editor, or none at all. What compensates is the fact that Cervantes managed the rarest of all feats: to create the bookÔs own legend almost from the moment it was publicized. The legend has lasted and still lasts, which is every add-executiveÕs dream. Cervantes did it single-handed and all by himself Ð but never earned even a fraction of an add-executiveÕs income. Makes you wonder. Why the hell do we write books?  I venture a bold proposition: if children or men beyond the viagra-barrier (the equivalent of the menopause) are telling you they like the ÔDon Quixote,Ô even enjoy it, they probably speak the truth. If girls and women and most men in their full sexual prowess make such claim, they are probably lying through their teeth. Just try recalling all the incidents of this book: isnÕt it the melancholic fantasy of a man who knows that he has passed his prime? Who can see himself doing childish things again, because he just found out, that nothing really matters? But Cervantes was not a nihilist, he would rather live in a world where the rules of chivalry maintain a modicum of application. He also knows they donÕt. So he sits down and daydreams a character that is not exactly his alter ego but an object of his empathy, someone who found a way to live through CervantesÕ own predicament, and in the end he simply let him die a &Ograve;good&Oacute; death. Kafka even suspected, that Don Quixote is just a dream in Sancho's mind Ð a child might agree; the elderly will nod knowingly to the DonÕs kidney condition. And the rest of us? Do we really want to know?  Not every old translation is outmoded or &Ograve;bad.&Oacute; Ovid was a wit; so to translate his ÔMetamorphosesÕ into DrydenÕs mock-heroic couplets is perfectly adequate, and a riot for BrocaÕs centre. However, the same standard applied on Virgil destroys the very qualities of his style: subtlety and melos. DrydenÕs vigor juggernauts roughshod across VirgilÕs delicate world of veiled suggestions and carefully arranged low key settings Ð here more modern attempts are certainly justified. In fact I still donÕt see an English Virgil anywhere yet. On the other hand would anybody actually dream to read Rabelais in any other translation than Sir Thomas UrquardÕs? Not if we want to read Rabelais! Cervantes ÔDon QuixoteÕ had been &Ograve;done&Ograve; by Thomas Shelton, P.A. Motteux, John Ormsby, Samuel Putnam, and lately Barton Raffel. Each and everyone has merits. None of them are downright bad, but if you want to hear the authorÕs voicein a version that is still close enough to the time and life of Cervantes to catch some of the smells (it stank!) the brutal gusto of practical humor, the cruelties of the general outlook without the ballast of romantic notions a modern reader is often asked to read into the book Ð then, well then, MotteuxÕs translation is the only option, and it is a good option.  Of course it requires a reader who actually is interested in what the author has to say; a reader who understands that despite portions of a more universal appeal, there speaks a voice from the past and a witness to the paraphernalia of a very different world. To &Ograve;translate&Ograve; this into a &Ograve;modern&Oacute; idiom, slick and slangy that would suit our TV-trained Pavlovian giggle-response to silly sound-bites, would be the next thing to publicly performed necrophilia. I repeat: not every modern translation is junk, some are competent and full of good intentions, the kind that pave the road to hell, but translating should not replace an authorÕs carefully crafted style with the jargon of another period, even if this should strike the naive reader as catching. But then, this is Cervantes, an author who couldnÕt care less about the stylistic obsessions that possessed a Flaubert or Joyce. Yet it has at least to be the style of his period to get the right feel for the DonÕs adventures. And even Cervantes had moments when his dialog developed wings and soared, though not too often.se enough to the time and life of Cervantes to catch some of the smells (it stank!) the brutal gusto of practical humor, the cruelties of the general outlook without the ballast of romantic notions a modern reader is often asked to read into the book Ð then, well then, MotteuxÕs translation is the only option, and it is a good option.  Of course it requires a reader who actually is interested in what the author has to say; a reader who understands that despite portions of a more universal appeal, there speaks a voice from the past and a witness to the paraphernalia of a very different world. To &Ograve;translate&Ograve; this into a &Ograve;modern&Oacute; idiom, slick and slangy that would suit our TV-trained Pavlovian giggle-response to silly sound-bites, would be the next thing to publicly performed necrophilia. I repeat: not every modern translation is junk, some are competent and full of good intentions, the kind that pave the road to hell, but translating should not replace an authorÕs carefully crafted style with the jargon of another period, even if this should strike the naive reader as catching. But then, this is Cervantes, an author who couldnÕt care less about the stylistic obsessions that possessed a Flaubert or Joyce. Yet it has at least to be the style of his period to get the right feel for the DonÕs adventures. And even Cervantes had moments when his dialog developed wings and soared, though not too often.	2001-04-17
US	49534502	R173VTVLMH62P5	0394702867	464965822	Centuries of Childhood: A Social History of Family Life	Books	4	61	69	N	N	A Paradigm	During the sixties (those were the times!) this was probably the most influential book on education. The funny thing is, that actually it is not at all about education, but its history and how our Western understanding of childhood as a concept has evolved. For everyone who uses to take for granted the values of a sheltered childhood and a period of prolonged 'innocence', it must come as a surprise, how relatively recent, in historical terms, these developments actually had been. In such light, the medieval society and even the Renaissance look very alien, like people from a distant planet. They had a custom to exchange their children in a network of chartered apprenticeships. Once a little sucker had passed the critical age of five and was deemed to be ready to fend for itself, it became time to learn the way of the world, and to be rented out to service at the tables of a trade or of landed nobility. Only a select few received rudimentary tuition and set out on an aca!demic career, which meant years of vagrancy and the open road between Universities and urban centers of learning.  As for the pre-school age, the child was a sexless, almost nameless piece of livestock and roamed the townships in street gangs, wore an undistinguished piece of garb, rummaged the garbage dumps and contributed to the family's income with petty theft and beggary. It never washed, hunkered down to torture an unfortunate beetle or wrenched a cat's tail; it learned to drink small beer, in order to escape the diarrhea that lurked in every well. It was on a race against measles, small pocks, diphtheria, and crippling polio, and the odds weren't good. Parents preferred not to involve themselves too emotionally in the frequent deaths of their small ones. A little thing had died, sad, but a replacement is already under way. Scenes from modern day Calcutta come to mind.  (This condition was not necessarily class-specific. The future emperor Frederick II (1194-1250), heir t!o the most powerful dynasty of his time, one of the best educated and most enlightened rulers in history, who was fluently conversant in six languages, including Arabic, had passed his early childhood and adolescence as a thieving thug in a Sicilian street-gang. He coined the notorious phrase of the three con-men: Moses, Jesus and Mohammed. Needless to say, the popes took turns to excommunicate this man.)  These days, teachers use to complain over class-sizes. I still remember my first year in primary: we first graders shared the same classroom with the second grade, and one teacher took care of both at the same time. But this is idyllic if compared to the beginnings of the modern school system in the late Renaissance! You had first graders of every age between seven and twenty-five sitting in one room with second, third, and fourth graders. Many of the most renowned educators were practising pedophiles and nobody found anything wrong with it. Only gradually, the Jesuits in th!eir colleges set a trend for stricter discipline and the separation of the ages.  This was paralleled by a new understanding of parenthood. Up to this point the Church had been too busy with her own agenda of sorting out who is orthodox or an infidel, to care much about such mundane matters as marriage (see my review of Caroll's 'Constantine's Sword'). Newly wed couples used to receive without much ceremony an informal blessing under the open sky, on the stairway to the church-entrance. But now marriage had became institutionalized at last and a 'holy sacrament'. The little ones, as the fruit of such commitment, became precious, and their still frequent deaths a source of inconsolable grief. For the first time since Antiquity, we find again infants to be buried in individually marked tombs. Supervision intensified; early tuition was recognized as a means to keep kids out of trouble. Children wore the same costumes as their parents and from early on displayed the airs of their !respective social classes. They no longer exposed their genitals in public and slept in a place removed from their parent's bed. It was not exactly a world of fairies and dreaming under soaring larks, there was little time for this and no space to wax sentimental. The kids were on a mission: to grow up as soon as possible and take their share of responsibility for the family's fortunes.  The nuclear family was born out of economic expedience - your own children are more loyal then a hired apprentice; and you save on the wages. The emerging educational system served to reinforce this trend and at the same time developed a new sense of parental commitment. Then came the industrial age and mobilized human resources on an unprecedented scale. The sentimental attachment deepened and in the era of Victorian hypocrisy and a growing life expectancy, the biological learning period was stretched even further and a new myth was born: the myth of innocence and of an infancy in fairyland. !The fashion recognized the need for age related clothing, the age of children's literature was born and parents learned to lie to their children on the facts of life and the birds and the bees.  Has this turned out to be a blessing? History's court is still in session, and the replacement of King Arthur, Cinderella and the Dwarfs by Kermit, the Cooky-Monster and Miss Piggy might turn out to be a rather dubious piece of pedagogic progress. Monsieur Aries book certainly deserves its rank as a classic.	2001-03-31
US	49534502	R1XH991MNWAZYE	0156364808	414179255	The Great Code: The Bible and Literature	Books	4	28	53	N	N	The Bible Fryed crispy	In order to live up to the late Mr. Frye's ideal of a reader, you need an encyclopedic erudition and the knack to read into any given text an archipelago of implicit meanings and mythological references to be gleaned from a substratum of cultural traditions and collective lore over the ages. Should any author have the audacity to think, that he or she actually has a word to say in this matter, then hard luck lads and lasses, no consultation hours today! (see my review on \\"Anatomy of Criticism\\")<br />    Yet sometimes, even over Toronto's campus rises the Sun. Suppose on a given text there is very little matter of fact knowledge available. Suppose the very nature of such text is mythological. Suppose this text happened to set up the imaginative framework of an entire civilization, \\"a mythological universe\\" within which a large section of this planet's literature had operated all the way down to the 18th century. Suppose a confused anthology of badly established \\"little books\\" (= \\"ta biblia\\") had been for generations the fare at the foundation of the Western mind-set. Then, which perspective would be most suitable to investigate this phenomenon?     <br />Mr. Frye always had a preference for authors who were exceptionally biblical, like Milton or Blake. Understanding the Bible obviously helps understanding them, and this here is not an enquiry into the Bible's actual meaning (see my review on \\"The Bible Unearthed\\") but its perception and interpretation by countless generations of readers. Which means that the confusion of largely anonymous and almost always apocryphal texts no longer matters, because what matters is: \\"that the Bible\\" has traditionally been read as a unity, and has influenced Western imagination as a unity.\\" (Northrop Frye)    <br />This is not a book on biblical scholarship, though it incorporates many tasty morsels of it, but this would be beside the point. Frye has his moments of delicious irony, but he is not irreverent to his subject and speaks with the voice of a humanitarian. As was to be expected from him, he approached his subject from 4 different angles: the language, myth, metaphor and typology. Nothing to worry, Professor Frye lectures on English literature - \\"language\\" refers exclusively to the King James Bible. (Remember? This is about the effect the Good Book had on its readers.) Still his observations of the evolution of verbal forms and discursive writing, is still valid. If something is written in heroic verse it most likely belongs to an old stratum, prose always points to a late provenance, exile or post exile, a highly argumentative and discursive prose is even later. This aside, it is truly amazing to see how many cross references and anchor-points to a wider mythological cosmos Mr. Frye manages to open. If applied on Marcel Proust or Tolstoy, this would be unadulterated bogus, but the Bible can take it and in a positive sense it gains perspective and point. Nothing here is foggy or presumptuous; for once we see Mr. Frye at his best.    <br />The only thing I have in common with Northrop Frye is, that we both have read the Bible from cover to cover. What he got out of it, we can read in the \\"Great Code,\\" what I got out of it, is a slightly different matter. For starters, I would seriously question Frye's premise, that the Bible - except for a few exceptional readers - has influenced anybody as a \\"unity.\\" Just remember your last encounter with a Bible thumping evangelist or Jehovah's Witness: these people have their quotes off pat and pick them all over the place, regardless of historical context and intended meaning, but strangely selective and colour-blind for passages that fail to suit their mission. I would even say, that for many serious readers, the Old Testament, for all practical purposes, is non-existent. As for me, \\"Leviticus\\" and \\"Numbers\\" are an education in folklore and specimens of real life legal customs from a distant era, though not the era the text claims to represent Ð anaspect usually lost, not only on Mr. Frye. And from a perspective of pure literature, it is very telling for the validity of Frye's literary criticism that for me exactly those documents stand out which are of least use to Mr. Frye's commentary - such as \\"Ecclesiastes,\\" \\"Solomon's Song,\\" and the succession stories. (1 King 13 is a gem of a truly Kafkaesque humor.) On the other hand, there can be very little disagreement on Isaiah or Jeremiah.     <br />Having said all this, I recommend this book to every Bible reader, but I know it will not reach the kind of reader who needs it most.	2001-03-30
US	49534502	R2D6V2IUXOE6BC	0691069999	555267553	Anatomy of Criticism: Four Essays	Books	2	45	119	N	N	Mantra of the Clich�	What ever your college teacher has told you, imaginative literature is not about ideas and opinions. Collapsible soapboxes have nothing to do with art. But sensitivity, sensual quality, lucidity of image and thought, fantasy, and diction have everything to do with it. It is a mode of perception and representation, the highest form to interface with the world as it presents itself to the author. In the beginning was the word, style and composition are the essence and grand ideas are merely functional props to propel a story or the poetry.    <br />Yes, there is an element of gratuity, of something transcending the merely utilitarian; great books need no external referent, they are alternative worlds in their own right. It is the critic's task to unlock these worlds and outfit the reader with the right gear for his own journey of discovery. It is not the critic's task to be the surrogate reader who substitutes his own generalizations for all the so lovingly crafted details a good writer has put into his work. The  Nobel-laureate Joseph Brodsky maintained that language and literature are more ancient and inevitable than any form of social organization. But there is such a thing as development and evolution, even in the arts. To define literature basically as a myth-building activity is a tat one-sided.     <br />In fact it was never really true: Homer dealt with the facts and fantasies of a bygone era in the fashion of his own period. And when Aristotle in his poetics mentions the word \\"myth,\\" he simply means \\"story.\\" Ours is the age of science, and art ahead of its time, always complies to current standards of scientific enquiry. The specific detail, the significant trifle, a disdain for generalities, attention to subtleties, curiosity for what lays beyond the mythological paradigm - these are the hallmarks of genuine art and indicative of quality.    <br />From 1984 to 1992 I lived in China, almost completely disconnected from the Western world. When I came home I realized that I had some catching up to do. For instance the bookshops reserved separate shelf-space for \\"Gay &amp; Lesbian,\\" \\"Women's Fiction,\\" and even something labeled as \\"New Age\\" - a term which seemed to have cropped up straight from Huxley's \\"Brave New World.\\" I soon learned that it meant something very different and I also saw that the late Northrop Frye, would have fitted in splendidly in this new age of bogus spirituality, bogus science, and bogus academia. In fact his disciples have made it all the way to Hollywood. Today every film-script submitted is gauged by its compliance with the mythological structure that underlies the \\"Wizard of Oz.\\" Wow!    <br />Mr. Frye attempted to establish a sort of Cabala for the critical profession. He declared to ascribe to the laudable premise that the principles of criticism must arise from an empirical study of the texts themselves. But Frye was never really interested in what an author himself has to say. In fact he thought it ok to ignore authors altogether: never mind how carefully Proust has crafted his subtle structure of counter points and hidden references, never mind how original a multi-layered temperament may reflect on its perception - this is just \\"lifeless text,\\" we got to stuff the pastry, give me \\"proto-generic forms,\\" give me archetypes and ideas! Shakespeare didn't mean to say that? In fact he wouldn't even have a clue what you are talking about? Who cares?! This is an exercise for our academic society of mutual masturbation. Not for people interested in Kafka.    <br />So in Frye's scheme of things, Montaigne, or Marcel Proust, by default, wither on the fringes. So do Flaubert, Dos Passos, (is he actually mentioned at all?) Auden, T.S.Eliot, Pushkin, Tolstoy, Chekhov - even Cervantes squeezes in only with difficulties. \\"What's the use?\\" you ask, when you wrestle with deadlines and the daily task of 3000 printable words. Frye utterly lacks application. Armed with nothing but his typology you will neverbe able to recognize a talent when you see it. But of course if all you aspire is a parasitic career in academia on the bones of already dead poets - Mr. Frye is the man.    Consequently, Frye summarily dismissed as insufficient and individualistic any honest effort to open a reader's mind to the specifics of a text. In his view, a long tradition of critical appreciation, which began with Longinus and found in Nabokov its most vociferous advocate, has barely a right to exist. Frye was a pigeonholer. He wanted to classify and label. For him the world of literature since Aristotle hadn't moved an inch. When Frye divided his essay in four sections on \\"historical,\\" \\"ethical,\\" \\"archetypical,\\" and \\"rhetorical\\" criticism, or modes, symbols, myths, and genres, he made it look as if he deals with matters of great complexity, but it always comes down to the most general, i.e. emptiest, denominator. Not that he was always wrong: You can safely take home his explanation for the suspension of disbelief as an imaginative stipulation - comparable to a scientific hypothesis - which the actual novel then puts to the test. Mr. Frye was neither stupid nor did he lack a certain turn of phrase. But in total this amounts to small change.    <br />A man of genius is able to frame this whole book in one aphorism. In \\"Kafka and his Precursors\\" Jorge Luis Borges showed how it is done and made the point that all this classifying is a product of hindsight. Suppose Kafka had died in his cradle, then nobody would ever see what Kierkegaard, Browning and Melville have in common. Good writing begins where the cliches end. Mr. Frye's book is a glorified \\"Anatomy\\" of literary cliches. People seem still to build academic careers on this [stuff], and college teachers continue to regurgitate these \\"illuminations\\" to their students. It boggles your mind.	2001-03-29
US	49534502	R1FTPZSOOBNR8N	0060987049	70030622	Microserfs	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A writer with talent	My standard method of gauging a new read is to open the book at random in the middle, read a page or two, and if I feel like going on from this spot or going back a few pages, then the book is promising enough to consider buying it. I bought Microserfs, and I didn't regret it. Obviously I am not after &quot;messages&quot; (who gives a hoot on opinions? Everybody has opinions, like a dog has fleas.) And of course I don't share this obsession with &quot;plot&quot;  plot is a crutch for authors with inferior talent. Besides, in a novel, a good plot is the outcome of a good character development. (For very short stories, this rule may not apply.)     I read Microserfs from cover to cover in one sitting, which doesn't happen too often these days. Everything in the book is likable except for the soapy and over sentimental ending. Perhaps this was meant to be satirical, but that's not how it hit me. The author doesn't give the impression of making fun of his characters. But it is fun to read. The sequence on menstrual bleeding has an almost Rabelaisian quality. Pity that there wasn't more of this. But then this is exactly the point: these people have no life. An author has to have real talent to create a captivating read from such material.	2001-03-28
US	49534502	R1LF41490JZRV	0413590208	596914744	Boating for Beginners (A Methuen paperback)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	What a shame	If you read the author's remarks on her own webpage, then Boating forBeginners is supposed to be a pot-boiler, written for the money inthe time of dearth before her Oranges are not the only Fruit finallysaw the light of day. Should this be true, then Ms. Winterson is evenmore talented than I had given her credit for.  The book is a riot,truly funny, the kind of sarcasm that may kill a religion, and is muchmore effective as an antidote than the most elaborate production oflearned scholarship ever could hope to achieve ...Of course there aresome purely British insider jokes, and since we are at it lets givethe media a bit of a flak too. It is the wonderful world of glitteringtears and hallelujah-burgers from Genesis all the way to the latesttelevangelists. Praise the Lord! (And it is true: you CAN get yourorgasms in a supermarket.)  Ms. Winterson sparkles with angular twistsand turns and a seemingly inexhaustible supply of ideas and jabs, butto the readers pleasant surprise, it all falls into place, and a realstory among real people develops  characters we recognize, even inthis warped apparition from a parallel universe. Talent, fantasy andthe language, if an author has this, and Ms. Winterson has it inabundance, then even potboilers turn out to be a delight to read  infact it may even turn out better than more ambitious projects where anauthor can be a tat too conscious of what she or he is trying todo. (Yes, you guessed it, I am thinking of Ms. Wintersons GutSymmetries.) For the seeker of profound ideas: the book developsthe premise: What would happen if we took Northrop Frye seriously andused his method as a prescription of how to write narratives? Need Isay more?  Anyway: it was a pleasure to look into the workings of arare talent. If this book really had been produced in such a haste, asMs. Winterson claims, than it is the most transparent sample from herworkshop so far  and I must say, the most appealing, despite hertremendous Sexing the Cherry. If you like Douglas AdamsHitchhiker, then you are in for a treat, because this here is waybetter, and a good starting point to explore Ms. Wintersonswork. Thing is: the book is only sporadically available in the US. andWintersons own US-publisher doesnt even mention its existence. Why?You tell me!  What a shame.  END	2001-03-28
US	49534502	RVKWAS6WCB28E	0679731970	964065651	Collected Poems	Books	5	12	18	N	N	A curious fact	In this line-up of approving reviews I have very little to add  except for one, rather curious observation. In my classes I could divide my students roughly in two groups: admirers of T.S.Eliot and such of Auden. The effect the two great poets have on their disciples though is very different. The imitators of Eliot by and large came across as complete mediocreties. Auden on the other hand produces a following with at least a modicum of competence.    If you have your own poetic ambitions and you want to learn something  read Auden! You may not like his stuff, but it is very instructive.	2001-03-28
US	49534502	R2XTW0B6P6J68G	1573927589	314669665	Deconstructing Jesus	Books	5	78	104	N	N	Let's sober up, shall we?	I did research on the subject on my own as a sideline to Roman Archaeology, strictly from a historian's point of view. Unfortunately, whenever it comes to mythology I am helplessly engulfed in my own yawns, so I directed my research to more earthly matters. (Btw. I am of course aware of most of the literature that had been published on this proposition since the mid-eighteen hundreds of which Wells gives in his books a fair digest.) Price did all the boring work - because for people like me, myth is a terrible bore.    The three main aspects which have convinced me, that we are facing fiction (or &quot;myth&quot;) are these:    (1) I analyzed in great detail the trial procedures strictly by the letter of the law, and it became evident, that even the seemingly &quot;realistic&quot; portions of the gospels are clearly fictional. I wouldn't say uninformed, but in a strange way misrepresenting the proceedings.     (2) no matter how far back we follow the documents, they always come in the presence of an institution (such as the synagogue, or a churche) which acts as a custodian of the tradition. There is not a shred of evidence for an innovative phase that would precede the organized cult-activity. There is even no evidence for the existence of the apostles, (including Paul!) with the one exception of John (perhaps a very important exception) - who however cannot be identical with the Zebedee in the gospels. What we really have is a bundle of anonymous testimonies to a received faith, and perhaps in John the originator of the branch or heresy in this tradition which eventually became Christianity.     (3) The fact of the &quot;Easter-faith&quot; is much more likely the testimony to a received faith. A testimony based on a historical precedent would soon be exposed to the strains of the reality thereafter. Faith in a myth is bulletproof - at least for people who are susceptible for this sort of thing.    On reflection the entire movement may have originated among proselytized gentiles in the Jewish Diasporah, and from there have filtered back to the old country as an inspiration to actually impersonate the concept, but faced strong resistence. The documents, even in the form as they have been handed down to us, reflect on the to and fro of the argument and a developing heresy from the Jewish law.     So what does this tell us about Jesus? Not much, I am afraid.	2001-03-28
US	49534502	R2UZOAE6QBCZBK	0415139554	635300681	Universes	Books	2	7	70	N	N	Get the bias out of your math!	I can be brief. It is astonishing how even brilliant minds, like Professor Penrose can go astray. There was this housewife from Pennsylvania who within weeks hit the jackpot twice on the same ticket. The papers were quick to report that this was a one to 17 billion long shot. Not true! Or only true if no one else but Ms Johnes is supposed to be the winner. But if just SOMEBODY is supposed to win, then, given the number of participants, the odds are something in the order of 1:30. Neither evolution nor the universe are partial about us, only WE have this bias. But given size and duration of available worlds, SOMETHING is bound to happen, if not here than somewhere else, if not life then some other oddity. As it happened it was life and it was us.    Personally I don't believe in Big Bang and all this nonsense, so there is plenty of time for something to happen anyway, but this is not my point: even given the limitations and strictures most seem to believe can be observed out there, the one universe there is, is still big enough for something to occur. Besides evolution is the mechanism gradually to improve the odds. Again: evolution has no intentions to end up with weird critters like us. But it proceeds in a way that makes us possible: not necessary, but possible.    The whole 'anthropic principle,' is just an other exercise in human vanity. If we can't be the necessary fruit of events, we want at least to be an impossibly rare specimen. We are neither folks, and that is all there is to it.	2001-03-28
US	49534502	RIALYHDHYYEI8	0812693922	268646735	The Jesus Myth	Books	3	38	73	N	N	What's the Bottomline?	For me, books of this kind have become more and more something of a mixed blessing. I look at the net result: First, in his books before this one, (I read them all) Mr. Wells had maintained that Jesus was an utter myth, on a same footing with Wilhelm Tell, the supposed to be founding father of an entire nation. Latter day tourists can visit now all the sites and even have a look at the church register - but sorry folks: the whole thing is just a hoax. Well, on second thoughts, Wilhelm Tell's story is most definitely fiction - but what about the people who swore an oath of independence on the \\"Rutli\\"? After all Switzerland is real, it gained its independence through war, and most of the time remained independent ever since. Would an acknowledgment that the founding story is just a tall tale, change this fact?    <br />Now, Mr. Wells has changed his position on Jesus (not on Tell, poor bloke,) and he gives us a guy slouching along on bast sandals somewhere, sometime, in the historical limbo and quite separated from his story that took on a life of its own Ð the gospels. Does this really make any noticeable difference, say, to Mr. Doherty's position? (see my review on \\"The Jesus Puzzle.\\") You tell me. As was to be expected from him, Mr. Wells has put into it an immense amount of hours in the library. I used to like Wells. His books are well written and make good compendia to quickly find a reference, but they can't substitute for going to the sources yourself, if you wish to form an educated opinion of your own. This would require time, inclination, and training, and last, but certainly not least, the leisure and means to follow your interests. It also requires a modicum of intellectual integrity and honesty - can I live with myself on received authority alone, or will I take pains to do my own share of work and research? Is the methodology of my enquiries up to scientific standards? Do I have the time to care?    <br />Mr. Wells follows the common practice of theological debates and presents his case in a barrage of quotes and cross-references in the footnotes. I wonder what this can do to us common blokes and lasses who are busy with building bridges or raising children as a single parent. I can't see us very likely to go through the tedium of finding out what makes a \\"son of men\\" different from a 'messiah,' or a 'Christ;' and if you come home from your second job at the check-out counter in Publix, the subtleties of addressing God either as Jahwe, Elohim, or Adonai will be completely lost on you, because back home you are so darn tired that you could cry in your sleep.    <br />At the bottom-line everything depends on criteria which have absolutely nothing to do at all with biblical scholarship. In the cause for Christianity, it comes down to just one thing: \\"Ye shall know them by their fruits.\\" The facts as presented by two millennia of Christian history, should speak for themselves. Had the assailant who had knifed a mother at the entrance to an abortion clinic, suffered from a lack of scholarship? I don't think so. He followed Lk 19:27 to the letter: \\"... those mine enemies, which would not that I should reign over them, bring hither, and slay them before me.\\" Over the last two millennia this is probably the least quoted and most practised line of the entire New Testament. (And no I did not quote out of context: especially in this instant the context does absolutely nothing to salvage the tenor of this message and anyway it corresponds well with Mt 10:34-37, Lk 12:49-53, and parallels.)    <br />In fact it corresponds well with entire sections, especially the fundamentalist's favorite read: \\"Revelations.\\" Repeatedly we read the invocation that the Lord should come real soon and make an end to this world right now. Pagan critics of the second and third century had a reason to accuse Christians of hating the world and all mankind. I think they got it right. Anybody, capable to read the New Testament with his brains on full alert, will find in it the usual hate message of hysterically religious but very common fanatics - with \\"love\\" and \\"charity\\" as the candy wrapper. I don't see Mr. Wells addressing this issue properly when he, no doubt in the best traditions of polite enlightenment, tries to debunk the message, by establishing its roots in \\"mere\\" myth. What do we care about myth, as long as it is scripture? The real issue here is whether we can afford to let faith rule over our own better judgement.    But perhaps there is no better judgement in the first place, and faith fills a moral vacuum? That would be scary! The fact that the physical and mental health of us infidels is safe only because of Christian laxness and ignorance of the finer points in the professed faith, is truly unsettling. In a world where glass-teat and church are the only available alternative to illegal substance abuse, there is a very good chance that this may change real soon, and I don't see that Mr. Well's book should come across as an effective deterrent.    <br />So who will read this book? Well those who have always read Mr. Wells' previous books, and they don't need to be convinced. If you are one of them, you won't get a ripping good read, but good honest research and a reliable index to secondary opinions on primary sources, collected and presented in Mr. Wells' characteristically lucid style.	2001-03-27
US	49534502	R30KPX1FAZFEX8	0385496974	22760455	The Inferno (English and Italian Edition)	Books	4	20	50	N	N	The Lord of Fantasy	Medieval illuminators liked to illustrate whole stories in every miniaturesque detail on barely more than a square inch of parchment. We see the bread loaf on the table, bricklayers work on unfinished walls which direct the view to a landing ship. Hunters chase game in a near forest. It is this view into a doll house, the comfort and cosines of enclosing walls and complete self-sufficiency that stirred the medieval mind. It is the mind of a child, a child with not enough supervision. It doesn't wash, terrorizes the streets in gangs, it is illiterate and hysterically credulous, it brutalizes animals and immolates witches; it is a street-wise thug, superstitious like a fox, ill fed, blaspheming and continually drunk, because only beer avoids the ever present diarrhea which lurks in every well. In such surrounding, hell needs to be painted in strong colours. But trapped in a lifelong purgatory of ceremony and feudal obligation, the individual may seek escape into prayer and a paranoid paradise of speculation and beauty.     <br />This is not a ripping good yarn of conflict and conquest; just a travelogue from a parallel universe. It comes with much philosophical baggage and ponderous logic, all of which is no longer quantum physics and something of a drag. It dresses in exactly 100 cantos, each of exactly the same length. We modern readers fail to appreciate such pedantic workmanship: we ask for a more organic texture, for a crisscross of leitmotifs and echoes. Only gradually emerges how tightly knit everything falls into place. This is great poetry, not a soap opera. Entering Dante's universe, we find ourselves in the realm of an absolute power, with a gigantic concentration camp at its feet, where victims cannibalize each other and Satan himself is the \\"Herr Commandant.\\" Penal colonies circle a mountain all the way up to the Lord's own top security compound, while the intellectual opposition lingers in exile: Inferno (Canto 4) is not such a bad place after all. <br />The visuals are intense and very specific. We pass the frowning squint of distant bystanders, address a man who can barely stop scratching his eczema while spurred to race along naked - familiar images, a survivor may remember from Auschwitz. A demon (named Dr. Mengele, no doubt), performs life surgery on Mohammed, but forgot to anesthetize. The poem's topography reaches from a city with red mosques behind a wall of iron to the unfolding rose at the centre of the empyrean. No other poem makes you hear the Sun's thundering silence; the scattered leaves of an entire universe bundle up in one flame. Similes stretch their wings and clouds of starlings and cranes crowd the sky; fishes mob the ponds at feeding time.     <br />T.S.Eliot tries to sell us Dante's pageant in the earthly paradise as a \\"higher dream\\" of spiritual beauty. Must be me, but a three eyed woman is a troubling sight. So are wings polka-dotted with wide open eyes, or green and crimson skin pigmentations. And this is just the beginning. Subsequently, Dante's encounter with his immutable sweetheart turns into a real nightmare, before it turns into something very different. Of course, this is a carnival of allegories and the modern reader uses to frown on allegory (but Kafka did it all the time). However in the end it comes all together in a visualization of meticulous accuracy and sensual presence. Modern attempts to create alternative worlds just pale by comparison. Dante is still the undisputed Lord of Fantasy. (On a more mundane level, his poem is of course a clever way of writing libel against his enemies.)     <br />A final observation: Poor Francesca who ended in hell for loving much, says: \\"if only the King of the Universe had been our friend ...\\" It echoes an other author of whom Dante himself had no first hand knowledge: \\"Gods make dangerous company,\\" says Homer in the Iliad. There is more in this vein and the third part opens with an invocation of Apollo. Maybe it is merely a convention of learned poetry - but I wonder: why here of all places, at the entrance to Paradise? What kind of Christian is this Dante anyway? Just compare his position with the gospels's or Paul's existential assessment of this world's involuntary captivity in the clutches of evil. In Dante's presentation, sin is the voluntary failure of an individual. And what shall we think of this monumental idolatry, which Dante lavishes on his fish-blooded sweetheart, (who in real life was neither the first nor the last girl who kept the money in the family and married a banker instead of a poet?) The author seems to hold out on us, he seems to conceal the heretic in his heart. In the era before Dante, this type of idolatry was typical for the poetry at the \\"love-courts\\" in the Languedoc.     <br />So, how can a reader with English as his only language get an authentic taste of Dante? I am sure, it could be done to produce an englished Dante in terza rima of utmost clarity and a bearable minimum of padding, but it would take a bilingual and very talented translator and a publisher willing to subsidize a lifelong and single-minded effort. I don't see it happen, so for now only an accurate prose translation, paradoxically, will preserve the essentials of Dante's poetic substance - his accurate visuals and the wealth of sub-textual counterpoints. A Miltonian barrage of \\"thee\\" and \\"thou\\" will not do. Even an unrhymed merely rhythmical translation, like Musa's, sometimes compromises on clarity. Durling's translation is very good, Singleton's still the staple, Hollander's rendition appears even to preserve many of the Italian rhyme words. They do not resonate in English, but their position at the closing of a line allows to see how their semantics toss on the ball to their companions. Pinsky is only for fans of Pinsky.	2001-03-27
US	49534502	R1BSC0ELVZ6C5B	0192838997	160552858	Eugene Onegin: A Novel in Verse (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	43	51	N	N	It doesnÃ*t come across	Falen did as good a job as possibly could be done, I believe - and<br />Nabokov would have eaten him alive for it all the same. And I begin to<br />see the reason.<br />Poetry can be defined in many ways, most of them are<br />wrong. What ever your college teacher is telling you, it is not about<br />ideas and opinions. Collapsible soapboxes have nothing to do with<br />art. But language, sensitivity, sensual quality, lucidity of image and<br />thought, fantasy, and diction have everything to do with it. Poetry is<br />sensual thought. It doesn't preach, it doesn't pontificate, it has no<br />message. Poetry is a mode of perception and representation, the<br />highest form to interface with the world as it presents itself to the<br />poet. In the beginning was the word, and the word became flesh through<br />the poet; in the beginning was a dream, in the beginning was magic,<br />and if the poet has what it takes, it comes across as magic.<br />Eugene<br />Onegin is a novel in verses. A number of well developed characters<br />interact and give the narrator an opportunity to add his own little<br />observations as well. As a story, things develop with grace and<br />plausibility. The big problem is the means of transmission. I have no<br />Russian, so I have to take for granted, that there is a very good<br />reason for the way Pushkin is idolized in his country. From what I<br />hear, his poetry has a light and graceful touch and a natural<br />unobtrusive bent that seemingly effortless follows every turn and<br />angle of mood and perception.<br />Falen decided to recreate Pushkin's<br />stanza and the rhyme scheme, which in itself is laudable for a work<br />where the form of presentation is so all important. Falen's knack for<br />sniffing out suitable rhymes is admirable. But I would hold a bet,<br />that from a purely statistical point of view, the number of rhymes in<br />Russian must outweigh the translation by a ratio of 1:3 at least. The<br />English translator is limited in his choices, and there is nothing<br />anybody can do about. For short poems this doesn't pose a serious<br />problem. But the longer a narrative poem, the more likely will the<br />original's carefully crafted counterpoint of rhyme words translate to<br />a mindless and purely ornamental jingle, that is comical at best, or<br />just plain annoying, because it diverts the reader's attention from<br />what the author has to say, or even worse, simply drowns in noise the<br />subtler touches.<br />In a good poem, rhyme words are semantic anchor<br />points, which toss on the ball to their resounding companions. For a<br />poem in English this means, there has to be a sufficient distance<br />between the echoing pairings, a minimal length of the line is required<br />to avoid humor where it is not intended and it has to be assisted by<br />numerous enjambments to suppress the ding dong even further. A good<br />rhyme is semantically justified and at the same time<br />unobtrusive. Unfortunately Falen decided to imitate Pushkin's short<br />trimeters, which in an English translation rises the noise level of<br />the rhyming even further. It also makes the enjambments unrecognizable<br />because it draws all the attention to the line's endings.<br />I don't<br />know what in Russian is doing the trick, but I do know it doesnÕt work<br />for a long poem in English. Falen's effort is certainly the best<br />performance, today's money can buy - I doff my hat in respect - yet<br />over long stretches, what had been intended to be a melancholy and<br />mildly witty narrative with wide open vistas and sensual perceptions<br />of great beauty, comes across as something of a burlesque dance,<br />breathlessly speeding along, like the high kicking cancan in a<br />vaudeville show. And this, certainly, does Pushkin no justice.e longer a narrative poem, the more likely will the original's carefully crafted counterpoint of rhyme words translate to a mindless and purely ornamental jingle, that is comical at best, or just plain annoying, because it diverts the reader's attention from what the author has to say, or even worse, simply drowns in noise the subtler touches.<br />In a good poem, rhyme words are semantic anchor points, which toss on the ball to their resounding companions. For a poem in English this means, there has to be a sufficient distance between the echoing pairings, a minimal length of the line is required to avoid humor where it is not intended and it has to be assisted by numerous enjambments to suppress the ding dong even further. A good rhyme is semantically justified and at the same time unobtrusive. Unfortunately Falen decided to imitate Pushkin's short trimeters, which in an English translation rises the noise level of the rhyming even further. It also makes the enjambments unrecognizable because it draws all the attention to the line's endings.<br />I don't know what in Russian is doing the trick, but I do know it doesnÕt work for a long poem in English. Falen's effort is certainly the best performance, today's money can buy - I doff my hat in respect - yet over long stretches, what had been intended to be a melancholy and mildly witty narrative with wide open vistas and sensual perceptions of great beauty, comes across as something of a burlesque dance, breathlessly speeding along, like the high kicking cancan in a vaudeville show. And this, certainly, does Pushkin no justice.	2001-03-14
US	49534502	R3AMSDDXUGO6B9	0968601405	865805341	The Jesus Puzzle. Did Christianity Begin with a Mythical Christ? : Challenging the Existence of an Historical Jesus	Books	5	9	15	N	N	clarity, simplicity, and elegance	Unfortunately, whenever it comes to mythology I am helplessly engulfed in my own yawns, so my own research was directed to more earthly matters. I looked into the history of the texts themselves, and I analyzed in great detail the trial proceedings strictly by the letter of the law. It became evident, that even the seemingly &quot;realistic&quot; portions of the gospels are utterly fictional. I wouldn't say uninformed, but in a strange way misrepresenting the protocol. <br />I hand it to Mr. Doherty, that his exposition of the known facts has speaking for it clarity, simplicity, and elegance. However, what Doherty ironically termed a &quot;conspiracy of silence,&quot; could actually be exactly that. Suppose Christianity is indeed the offspring from a Hellenistic mystery cult, then it is only logical that as long as the practice was still in operation, its members did not reveal the secret. There might be even a more obvious reason to make a secret out of Jesus' life. Let me be for a moment the 'advocatus diaboli' here: <br />Just ask yourself: what would emerge, if I take the gospels on surface value, and if it were true that Paul's and some of the apostolic letters antedate the earliest gospel by at least two decades? Well, what looks back at me, is the story of a man whose Jewish mother had shamefully conceived out of wedlock and who himself ended in utter disgrace, especially in the eyes of his fellow Jews. This alone must have been sufficient reason for the earliest missionaries to keep his actual life under the lid and even make a mystery out of it, a mystery that was to be confided, if at all, only to the initiates of the inner circle and which required deep meditation and reinterpretation as to the meaning of all this. And it suddenly makes a very normal sense that the earliest gospel doesn't mention his childhood. The mythological flavor and confusion between the different narratives then flows quite naturally from such beginnings, while the apostolic letters prefer to sidestep such sticky matters altogether. <br />I mean if I follow Doherty's line of reasoning, what is to be gained for the Christian cause to abandon the pure mythological message in the earliest documents, and to confuse the issue with the dubious tales of a Jesus in the flesh? This was not present day America where they like their Jesus to be a dude of their own make. Given the cultural climate of the period, a Jesus in the flesh made the early missionaries` business harder, not easier. Every pagan critic, from Celsus to Porphyrius, leveled his first criticism against the lowly status of Jesus and then, based on the presumed historicity of Jesus, continued to charge the Christians with introducing a newfangled faith, never heard of in the olden days. So why this turn in the message, if not for a compelling reason? And the funny thing is, Mr. Doherty could be right all the way (except for his final conclusion) and it would just prove - well, either a conspiracy of silence with an elaborate cover up, or simply a silence born out of embarrassment. <br />I think the archaeologist in me, who scratched the dust of North-Africa from Roman inscriptions would just like to point his finger on someone - Jesus, John, Sosthenes - anybody, and say &quot;hey, he started it.&quot; So when I see the academic and not so academic community of biblical scholars doing their quoting and comparing of text snippets, sometimes out of context, sometimes wrestling it into a different context, and always claiming to reconstruct the true context, then -- well then I wish I could just book a ticket for Capernaum (not Jerusalem) and, armed with a grand and the permit to excavate, dig out an ossuary containing a skeleton whose ankles are nailed together with a slab in between that reads &quot;Jesus, King of the Jews.&quot; This would once and for all settle the issue on all the relevant questions - it also would probably incite some idiot to shoot me.<br />As it is, the weight of the debate is carried along on theological lines and scholarly squabbles, and nothing could be more repelling and plain boring for people of my kind. I do agree on the fictional character of most of the documents in the New Testament, and Mr. Doherty appears to have the expertise to establish a very well founded and coherent connection to mainstream religions of the period. Good show! But his own line of reasoning can lead to two different conclusions, both equally coherent, but only one possibly true to the facts. If you dig this sort of thing, then this is a very enjoyable book for you.	2001-02-28
US	49534502	R1AQ4T129YZ8SL	0968368905	261039625	Seeing Red: Redshifts, Cosmology and Academic Science	Books	4	22	31	N	N	...	...Apel is doing good science. You don't like his equations? By all means, prove him wrong - if you can. On a personal note, I don't feel comfortable with his notion of a variable electron mass. But this seems to be the backbone of the whole argument. Just a hunch. My education in quantum physics is woefully patchy and I lack the expertise to prove him wrong, let alone to propose an alternative. (Pehaps we can postulate an accelerated and hence red-shifted stream of electrons trapped in an electrical field, a sort of a plasma medium, jetting out from the central axis of a galaxy - which incidentally happens to be the trajectory for the near by quasars in Arp's observations. I base this suggestion on a proposal for the formation of galaxies by the Nobel laureate Hannes Alfvén. It is regrettable that Arp doesn't even notice Alfvén's existence, but this is very telling for the sorry state of interdisciplinary communication.)<br />The overall cosmological picture looks very appealing to me. The real problem with cosmology is, that, no matter which theory anybody champions, in the end it comes down to ambiguities in the observational data themselves, which allow to be interpreted in a number of different ways. And when it comes to that, the bean counters usually get the last word. It's not a conspiracy, just the usual story of human vanities, of subsidies and academic clouts. But this is not the main body of the book. The main body are observational data and their interpretation.<br />Rock-solid. A book worth studying.	2001-02-27
US	49534502	R15JFT3B0A7TB2	0374125457	835100655	Collected Poems in English	Books	4	19	27	N	N	Then it hit me � he is dead!	Lately I havent paid much attention to American Poetry. Provincial minds who spill their prosy guts over America's kitchen sink or worse and who belong into one of Ophra's spirituality binges. So it completely slipped me by, that the US had a Russian as poet laureate; the name was not familiar.  Then I found his collected poems. Critics point to howlers in the translation, especially if committed by the author himself: it is true, there is space for improvement. But to blame it on the justified demand that translations of poetry have to be faithful to content and structure, rather points to inhibitions in the critics judgement. As for me: I found at long last another poet of stature and rank. And yes he deserves a better presentation. (It can be done!)  I became interested in his biography - born 1940 ... and then it hit me: he is already dead. And I felt sad, as if I had missed the arrival of a long lost relative.	2001-02-16
US	49534502	R3KRW2NX2GTQ7Q	1556432682	594274535	Dark Matter, Missing Planets and New Comets: Paradoxes Resolved, Origins Illuminated	Books	4	48	52	N	N	Let's have fun	Hard reading? Techno-babble? The people must have read the wrong book! Reader, don't be scared. If you are a devotee to the subject, this is the book for you. It is easy, straightforward reading, no math required. As for shaky philosophy, the author is faithfully reproducing Ernst Mach's propositions - and even a certain Einstein found his inspiration in Mach's lectures. Personally I have no bones to pick with what I read, but if I ever had the inclination of writing such a book, I certainly would leave out a few things.<br />Van Flanders has a lot to talk about: &quot;Faster than light motion in time is possible / Gravitation progresses faster than light / the physical universe has five and only five dimensions / it is infinite in extent in all five dimensions / there was no Big bang to start the universe / the universe is not expanding / the universal microwave radiation is of nearby origin / there are no black holes in the universe / quasars are associated with our own and nearby galaxies / galaxies are arranged in waves in an immense medium /gravitational shielding is possible / the classical description of quantum entities is incorrect / the Bell inequality in quantum physics should be violated / There is no &quot;Oort Cloud&quot; of comets / comets and asteroids are quite similar in nature / comets and asteroids are accompanied by satellites / a former major planet exploded between Mars and Jupiter / this explosion occurred just 3 million years ago / this explosion was the origin of comets and asteroids / this explosion may be connected with the origin of man / the great pyramids in Egypt are perhaps 9000 years old / artificial structures may exist on the surface of Mars / tidal forces on the sun and giant planets are significant / there may be a sunspot-planet link / solar eclipses are best viewed away from the centre line / Mercury was originally a moon of Venus / our Moon originated from the Pacific basin of the Earth / the Moon no longer shows us the sameface it used to / the Martian moons are the survivors of a great many moons/ a great rift on Mars is the impact site of a former moon / Jupiter's Red Spot is a floating impact remnanat / Saturn's rings are only a few million years old / Solar system bodies have received black carbon deposits / the moons of Neptune were violently disrupted / Pluto and Charon are escaped moons of Neptune / Another undiscovered planet probably exists beyond Pluto&quot;<br />Not that I or anybody has to agree to all this, but Van Flanders propositions his hypothesis as a true scientist, he is not preaching gospel. He deserves a fair hearing. If I try to imagine how his own peers may view this rich enchilada - oh well, at present the author must be living in the remotest Siberia. It's not about being right or wrong, and the author may very well be more often right than wrong, but it doesn't add much credibility where it counts most for a man of his qualifications. One has to hand it to him, Van Flandern has courage!<br />But for us lay people and lesser mortals, this book is a fun ride, this much I can promise you.	2001-01-19
US	49534502	R3UDAM94283SRX	006060381X	278596244	When Science Meets Religion: Enemies, Strangers, or Partners?	Books	1	17	64	N	N	Integration????	Faith and science really have nothing in common, and it is science which draws the line, not on grounds of what it knows or doesn't know, but for the methodology involved to acquire this knowledge. Faith is unscientific, not because it leads to God, but because it is a bad method to put your trust in. Nobody builds a bridge on nothing else but a prayer, and if you do, you better brace yourself for the consequences. It is really as simple as that. And a scientist who claims that faith and science hold common ground or could be &quot;reconciled,&quot; oversteps exactly this line and loses any right to put behind his views his authority as a scientist. His opinions have become an entirely private matter. As such they may still be of interest, but it bears no authority whatsoever.<br />Now - what are the options? According to the author it is conflict, in his version &quot;represented by fundamentalists and scientific materialists,&quot;  independence (two languages, separate domains), dialogue, and integration. I beg to differ. There is no conflict because the two sides are not really talking or listening to each other, hence no dialogue; and if, God forbid, ever there should be an &quot;integration&quot; then the last hour of the era of science has come, and a new age of universal darkness will close this window to the world for good. This seems to leave us with independence as the only option left? Wrong. This &quot;independence&quot; is a CONDITION for doing science, not a choice. And it has to be noted, that for most periods in history and practically in every culture, science was received with open hostility; not because it knows something, but because it asks questions.<br />Whenever faith interferes with scientific methodology, you can be sure to get bad science, either because it sets a premium on the application of this methodology or because it limits the latitude of hypothetical propositions. (Recently I heard a &quot;reborn&quot; scientist using the secondlaw of thermodynamics to explain her newfound faith in &quot;creation.&quot; It was the usual play with words. The law states, that in a closed system the amount of entropy increases to a point where all the energy comes to a rest in a state of equilibrium. So initially you have hot gas molekules clumping and drifting about in a closed chamber, which in the end will cool down and evenly distribute. From a state of low entropy we progress towards high entropy. To term the two states as &quot;chaotic&quot; and &quot;ordered&quot; is misleading and arbitrary, but it is exactly this lax use of metaphor on which people build their faith or rationalize their scepticism away.) <br />A God-fearing scientist can still be a good scientist as long as his scientific work ethic is left uncorrupted by his faith and he restricts the practice of his faith to his spare time. Whether on the other hand, a true believer ever can do science, without letting his prejudice get into the way, is not an open question: to date, I have not seen a single case, where the faithful did not compromise the demands of scientific methodology in favour for his bias. I have seen it, again and again. The assumption that there can be &quot;dialogue&quot; between the two positions, is an illusion. It is an illusion even for the inner dialogue in a single individual's conscience.<br />Why? Because one side is by necessety inflexible on the point of possessing a monopoly on the &quot;truth,&quot; while the other side leaves &quot;truth&quot; to the philosophy department and rather asserts &quot;facts&quot; by specific methods of enquiry, observation, and experimentation, usually based on a mathematical model of prognosis wherever this is possible. It is certainly a good thing, if both sides treat each other with civility and tolerance, but this changes nothing of the fundamental chasm - no matter how civil the behavior, the two positions remain mutually exclusive, the &quot;dialogue&quot; is an exchange of monologues in two very different languages.	2001-01-06
US	49534502	R8IAPXB6TOPFS	0140511369	934778528	The Penguin Rhyming Dictionary (Dictionary, Penguin)	Books	5	58	59	N	N	5 stars for content, but ...	I bought the book way back in a London book-shop. I had to climb down the narrow stairs to the basement and ask where I could find a rhyming dictionary. A nod sent me to the remotest corner. Halfway, a voice from behind suddenly said: &quot;The Penguine is the best.&quot; I don't know whether the people in this place worked on commission - if so, they sure lost money on that day, because the man was right!<br />I found and compared some 5 or 6 weighty and expensive dictionaries and an ugly duckling: Ms Ferguson's excellent listing. It is comprehensive, it is easy and quickly accessible, it never let me down in all these years. I had found THE tool for the professional translator of poetry. 5 stars and beer for everyone! That's the good news.<br />However: the only available edition is a typical Penguin production: tiny letters, lousy paper, shoddy binding - yes you guessed it, I am a snob when it comes to paperbacks, but I especially hate the Penguin way of producing books. And this here is a DICTIONARY for crying out loud!! It requires by definition sturdy boards and good paper and an easy to read typeface to weather rough handling and ceaseless thumping for never ending months and years of work. 1 star and an aspirin.<br />But then - on balance, this is the publisher's sly way to make you buy several copies I guess, and you know what: it is worth it. Fergusson's dictionary has been my indispensable companion for many years now. Perhaps we owe Penguin even a debt of gratitude, that they produce it at all ... .	2001-01-05
US	49534502	R3B77026S7EX5X	0684869128	460969074	The Bible Unearthed: Archaeology's New Vision of Ancient Israel and the Origin of Its Sacred Texts	Books	4	70	91	N	N	Who has a bias here?	That the bible is not exactly what a fundamentalist or even the average believer makes it to be, should be evident for every one else who has his brain still switched on. It still remains to be a great book, a treasure of literature, and it only can get better, the sooner we learn to read and appreciate it as an ordinary book. <br />Northrop Frye made a point, that the Book should be seen as a deliberate composition, there is an intentional unity, handed down to us by the latest editors who had put together the canon. Finkelstein &amp; Silberman present a well researched  hypothesis which makes sense of the true nature of this unity, as far as the Old Testament is concerned. It would not be my hypothesis, my own research led me to exile and post-exile dating of the texts which the authors place into the era of King Josiah, but it is a defendable and well researched position, it makes plenty of sense, and deserves consideration. My own objection would be based on form criticism. For Josiah's period one would expect the documents to be written in heroic verse meters; prose is a much later innovation and points to late exile and post exile. Post exile would provide similar political dynamics as Josiah's period though a strong point in F.&amp;S.'s favour is the dynastic bias of the whole compilation. After exile there was no dynasty left, though a dynastic resurrection might still have been the agenda.<br />A thought provoking book.	2001-01-03
