US	49530757	R22K3SYR9DUIGW	1577314220	837405933	Soulcraft: Crossing into the Mysteries of Nature and Psyche	Books	5	77	81	N	N	Unparalleled Guide to Soul Initiation in the Wilderness	Every now and then a book is birthed into the world that is destined to irrevocably alter the spiritual face of modern culture. Bill Plotkin's Soulcraft is just such a book. Charting a course through the underworld pathways with the heart of a shaman, mapping the powers of myth and psyche with all the soul and interpretive skill of Jung or Campbell, Plotkin's guide to the journey of initiation is to nature-based soulwork what Huxley's Doors of Perception was to consciousness studies. This book is an immense treasure that will provide wisdomseekers, psychologists, shamanic practitioners, and seasoned wilderness guides alike with a fresh heart-opening soul language, a new mythos for fathoming the depths of change, as well as time-tested practical methods for navigating the landscape of authentic transformation. In essence, Soulcraft is Plotkin's &quot;soul gift,&quot; a user's manual for the journey of the human soul, as well as a guide to the futurescape of why we are all really here. It is the book I wish I could have had at my fingertips when I began to feel the ancient call for rites of passage in my early youth. It is required reading for anyone guiding other people in soulwork, or delving deep into their own. As philosopher Parker Palmer has said, &quot;The way to God is down.&quot; Plotkin shows the way.<BR>- Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path: Celtic Wisdom for Exiles, Wanderers, and Seekers	2003-09-10
US	49530757	R2LH567TNHUP1	0028644174	664266964	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Celtic Wisdom	Books	5	62	65	N	N	A Perspective to Consider	The Idiot's Guide to Celtic Wisdom is what it is.  All of the Idiot's Guides, whether dealing with computers, meditation, Feng Shui, or Celtic Wisdom, set out with a singular task in mind: to make a wide brushstroke in such a way as to educate the reader to the variety of facets that they might not otherwise have known about in a particular area.  In this case, the area is Celtic tradition, and in this regard I think the author has taken on a monumental task: to attempt to give voice and shape to a tradition of multiple expressions that not only defy being pinned down, but also often contradict one another.<br />To make an attempt at such a thing might be described as pure folly, or a fool's task, and yet McColman has succeeded in describing the multiple perspectives in which Celtic tradition is perceived, and he does so in such a way that is rather hands-off, meaning he leaves it up to the reader to decode and decide for themselves.  Whether we as readers agree with all of those perspectives presented (such as Ogham being a divination system, the existence of \\"Celtic Wicca\\", etc.), one cannot debate the fact that the author has done an immense job of speaking about the various camps that do exist.<br />The Idiot's Guide is not a book for purist Celtic scholars.  I do not believe its author held that intention.  What readers will find with the Idiot's Guide to Celtic Wisdom is a work that seeks to give due diligence to the various manifestations or expressions that the Celtic spirit has taken over time, including in the now.  Its author is someone who sought to give voice to these various expressions, even though he himself may not be an adherant of all of the expressions and perspectives articulated.  <br />The Idiot's Guide to Celtic Wisdom is a good book for someone who comes to the realm of Celtic tradition with absolutely no idea of how to make heads or tails of the Celtic phenomenon.  Is Celtic considered shamanic? By some, yes.  Is Celtic considered to be Christian? By some, yes.  Is Celtic considered to be Wiccan? Though not by traditionalists, there are others who relate to Celtic tradition in that way.<br />Although I personally take issue with the Celtic-Wicca connections that people seem to make (Wicca is an Anglo-Saxon tradition), what I value about Carl's treatment of the subject is that he has not alienated anyone by his writing style.  He has attempted to describe how the Celtic spirit manifests with contemporary Druids, contemporary Celtic-Christians, contemporary shamanic practitioners, and, low and behold, yes, even Wiccans.  <br />Contrary to the negative reviews of this work I do not perceive The Idiot's Guide to Celtic Wisdom to be \\"New Age\\".  Indeed, if anything it is the author's valiant attempt to wrap language around a sociological and cultural phenomenon, to offer some sense of how he works with his own spirituality as a Celtic descendent, and to point toward how the Celtic spiritual stream is rather \\"Old Age\\" but is re-forming and re-shaping itself in the contemporary milieu.  <br />Another valuable aspect of McColman's efforts is that he has attempted to also dispell many incorrect notions regarding Celtic spirituality, such as that there is some kind of homogenized Celtic culture, and therefore a homogenized Celtic spirituality. This is a profound error in viewing Celtic tradition and McColman illustrates this.  <br />In his writing he has attempted to describe elements of the continental (Gaulish) tradition, such as the idea of druid orders or the supposed 20 years required for the making of a Druid, while also discussing other facets and features that arise from the Irish and Scottish fold (which do not adhere to a continental or Gaulish framework).<br />On the matter of faeries, it cannot be lorded over the author of this book that New Age bookstores have become rather prolific dispensers of little sprites and gossamer-winged Victorian English garden variety of faeries. To the contrary, the author of this book makes an important point: such notions of the Faery People or faery beings in Ireland, Scotland, and Wales depart radically from these Victorian or New Age versions of the faeries, or rather that Victorian and New Age notions depart radically from the authentic, empowered, and primal experience within Celtic tradition. The Faery People are empowered spirits in such contexts, often appearing human-size and larger, and continue to be a tangible reality for many rural people in Ireland and Scotland. Any dismissal of these dimensions or beings as a phenomenon of continuance in Celtic spirituality is only done by those who stand outside an animistic perception.<br />Probably the greatest difficulty in producing a book of this nature is its breadth and because of its breadth the by-product being the inability of the author to delve into the true depth of the tradition as much as he might like.  <br />In this work McColman has strived to give the reader a bit of both.  In the end, however, an important distinction to make is that there are two ways to go about reading this book: within the context of a living animistic perception, or outside of such a perception. This book seeks to invite you into such an animistic perception.  However, if a reader from the outset has a defined resistance to such things, or denies the spirit-realities that form the bedrock of Celtic spirituality, then, like most things in life, the true gifts to be discerned herein will be closed to you.---Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path: Celtic Wisdom for Exiles, Wanderers, & Seekers	2003-08-14
US	49530757	R2QWJNEUWIMG9F	1577314115	677155273	Yearning for the Wind: Celtic Reflections on Nature and the Soul	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Living Wisdom	Yearning For The Wind is one of those books you keep on your bedside table and refer to repeatedly to soak up the author's vision.  It is a collection of forty vignettes, each of them containing a jewel in the form of story, ancient cosmology, or teaching about the nature of the soul, and the soul of nature.  Tom is a master storyteller and one embodiment of an ancient living tradition of spiritual awareness.  A blend of traditional ideas from primal Irish spirituality, contemporary ways of looking at life shamanically, and truly humorous ways of holding space for the mysteries of life to unfold, Yearning For The Wind is a book that truly fosters a &quot;reading between the lines.&quot;  And, when you read between the lines of this book you find whole worlds waiting for you.	2003-07-01
US	49530757	RKJ6R2O4FYOC9	1585422061	441639268	Meeting the Other Crowd	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Enter the Authentic Realm of the Good People	A wonderful, potent, enspirited, and true-to-essence treatment of an often misunderstood, misinterpreted, and misrepresented subject: the faery folk. Lenihan is an authentic seanachai (storyteller) in the Irish traditions, but even more he is one who undoubtedly has a profound relationship with the life-affirming powers known as faery. Thanks to Carolyn Eve Green's mastery of the written (and spoken) word, we are invited into the world of Irish story, not as mere tales, but as maps into the Otherworld.   In Ireland sacredness is inseparable from story, and story is inseparable from place--both the places named and seen in ordinary reality, and those places that border our world, that are inhabited by intelligent and powerful beings.  For those readers who are unfamiliar with the Gaelic visionary traditions and the \\"co-present dimension of faery\\" this book will serve as an ample introduction to these enlivened cosmologies.  For others who think the faery people are little gossamer-winged sprites, think again.  Meeting the Other Crowd takes us into the faery world.  Ultimately, this book is a profound contribution to understanding the transpersonal realities of the primal Irish and primal Celtic traditions in general.  Where the classic work by W.Y. Evans-Wentz, The Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries, was essentially an outsider cataloguing an ethnological record of belief, Meeting the Other Crowd offers us the perspective and perceptions of an insider--a living practitioner who knows quite well that the realm of faery is real, and alive, and capable of initiating the human being into a profound reality of spirit and connection to earth.--...	2003-03-25
US	49530757	RD2K7EGQO4AFX	1577311906	247553610	The Red-Haired Girl from the Bog: The Landscape of Celtic Myth and Spirit	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Sacred Passage Through Ireland	Voluptuous, sensuous, at times filled with unparalleled humor and wit, Patricia Monaghan's writing saturates the reader with the spirit of wide-eyed discovery, good Celtic mischief, prayer flags at holy wells, and sacred teaching--not just of the ancient past, but just as much from the 'ancient future' of the Irish soul. There are many books on Irish history, and books about the Irish landscape, but none convey the living soulscape of our ancient mother, Eire, like The Red-Haired Girl From the Bog.--Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path	2003-03-19
US	49530757	RVP0LYVTG1CNL	0060931116	449744269	The Light Inside the Dark: Zen, Soul, and the Spiritual Life	Books	5	25	25	N	N	A Map of the Dark Road	The modern world has marginalized and anesthetized the deep, dark, inward turning process of the Dark Night of the Soul. John Tarrant revitalizes the descent into the underworld as the sacred journey that it is. Top notch writing.	2002-12-31
US	49530757	R7QTBGSE88T2V	0767907426	829846556	Breaking Open the Head: A Psychedelic Journey into the Heart of Contemporary Shamanism	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Wisdom From the Undercurrent	Breaking Open the Head is at once a personal memoir of the visionary kind, as well as a much needed psycho-social, psycho-spiritual assessment of our society from the vantage point of alternative ways of knowing and potential problem solving. In the spirit of Terrence McKenna, in the same stream of transpersonal voyaging and open entheogenic exploration as Huston Smith and Ralph Metzner, Pinchbeck not only unfurls the topography of his own soul journey through psychedelic shamanism, but details multiple encounters with different plant spirit teachers in a truly gleaming example of multidisciplinary scholarship and informal ethnographic accounts. What is probably the most convincing aspect of Pinchbeck's writing and journey is precisely the fact that he openly admits to being--once upon a time--a cynical, Manhattan atheist who saw no validity to anything spiritual or metaphysical. As an experiment he takes the plunge into a domain that, rather than leading him farther and farther into the cancerously consumeristic and addictive society we find ourselves in, he is initiated--genuinely--into the world of holographic, shamanic perception. An adventurous, stunning, and thrilling ride, as well as a timely wake-up  call regarding modernity's ill-fated relationship with psychedelics (as demonized and illegal substances rather than sentient intelligences with the capacity to heal and offer profound guidance and knowledge when worked with in a safe manner as has been done by humans for tens of thousands of years previous to industrialized society), Breaking Open the Head is sure to stand as a classic visionary account and a classic social commentary of our world. . . a world that is, from my perspective, gearing up for its own shamanic initiation.--Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path: Celtic Wisdom for Exiles, Wanderers, &amp; Seekers (New World Library)	2002-12-31
US	49530757	R3LWTC9BCBY33H	1577312171	822840313	The Power Path: The Shaman's Way to Success in Business and Life	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Pragmatic Shamanic Teaching Where It Is Needed Most	Jose' is a Basque-Mexican-Irish American who, with his wife Lena, are some of the most sought after organizational consultants in the industry.  What makes them unique is their thorough grounding in psychological understanding (Jose received a Ph.D. from the California Institute for Integral Studies in San Francisco, a true source of cutting-edge education), and they both have undergone shamanic apprenticeships.<br />This book is extremely timely given the current down-turn of our economy (which is going to get a lot worse before it gets better), and the old paradigms of business (which truly must undergo a transformation--see another book, The Cultural Creatives by Paul Ray and S. Anderson).<br />The Power Path is definitely not a book on puff-ball New Age spirituality.  It pulls no punches, it is gritty and real, but is also astonshing in its capacity to convey the terrain of power and our relationship with it.  This is no beating around the bush writing--pragmatic and practical, the teachings and ideas are deeply informed by their apprenticeship with Huichol shamans (they obviously paid attention)--but the ideas in The Power Path are also tested, refined, and applied in the very real domain of corporations where the issues of power are just as tangible and real as the issues of power a shaman faces in his or her training, and in his or her practice and service throughout life.  <br />In my estimation The Power Path is one of the freshest articulations of the shamanic theory about power, energy, thought, and intention, all components that determine our own determination of our own destiny.  What is extremely hopeful, I think, is the potential that these central teachings to the shamanic life at large can revolutionize the way we do business, the way we lead, the way we govern.<br />Frank MacEowen	2002-07-18
US	49530757	R13B94CJ8B6K3N	1590030222	132262570	Celtic Totem Animals [With CD and cards]	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Spirit Animals for New Students of Celtic Shamanism	Mention the topic 'Celtic shamanism' and one will eventually encounter the writings and prolific work of John and Caitlin Matthews, both wisdomkeepers in the Celtic visionary traditions, living in Britain. CELTIC TOTEM ANIMALS is the latest project of John Matthews in 2002 and is a good overall introduction to those beginning students who have not been exposed to Celtic traditions, the totems, or to the specific method of shamanic journeying (sometimes referred to as 'soul flight', 'active dreaming' or 'walking between the worlds'). <br />CELTIC TOTEM ANIMALS is just exactly that: a beautifully conceived project, providing a good doorway for introducing the beginning student of shamanism to the influence of the totemic dimensions, clearly showing that John Matthews is as much in tune with those people who are just learning about the Celtic traditions as he is those seasoned practitioners who benefit from his other writings. <br />NOTE: For those who are long-time practitioners of shamanic work or who are practiced with various divinatory systems, do note that CELTIC TOTEM ANIMALS is--in my estimation--designed for beginning students.   CELTIC TOTEM ANIMALS will be basic gnosis and praxis. However, I also think even some seasoned practitioners--especially of Celtic mysticism and shamanism--will find value in the versions of the traditional stories that John shares in the book; stories that clearly express and articulate the totemic and shamanic dimension within Celtic tradition.  <br />CELTIC TOTEM ANIMALS consists of: a.) a well-researched and informative book (complete with profile of the major totems of Celtic tradition, nine sacred stories from the Celtic tradition expressing the totemic influence of the animal powers in the Celtic mythos, along with an introductory explanation and instruction in shamanic journeywork, b.) a set of 20 cards depicting some of the major Celtic totems (note: the artwork is nice, in a kind of woodblock print form, however, the cards are also extremely small--2 inches by 2.5 inches and might be somewhat disappointing to those folks who were expecting full-sized cards as are found in tarot systems), and c.) a good basic shamanic journeying CD with three tracks of drumming, complete with call-back.	2002-07-15
US	49530757	R3EG9Q9VYIUXYF	1567184588	267084358	His Story: Masculinity in the Post-Patriarchal World (Llewellyn's Male Mysteries Series)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Healing the Male Soul	I liked this book very much for the mere fact that Mann does not put on airs in this book, but is instead looking at modern ailments within the masculine psyche from a perennial earth-centered perspective.  Unlike DRUID MAGIC, which I feel is partially a valiant attempt to explore Druidism but also one that has some glaring inaccurate representations, I thought HIS STORY was just the kind of writing we need to see getting turned out in the modern milieu--namely, the kind of writing that truly addresses the imbalances, wounds, habitual patterns, and fallacies of paradigms that have taken root in our contemporary society as a result of leaving an earth-centered spiritual cosmology behind.  Mann approaches a number of positive male archetypes, as well as ways of revisioning a modern masculinity that is rooted in gentleness, strength, a sense of honoring the feminine within and without, and an overall spirit of alignment of the male soul with the soul of earth.  I applaud this investigation, its general thesis, and its conclusions. Where Pagan, neo-Pagan, Druid, and neo-Druid writings interface with a deep-seated look at the psychology that shapes our world we have potential tools for addressing authentic change and this is one book that aspires to this.	2002-06-15
US	49530757	R3NV2RZ7XOUMFY	051788710X	542865257	Conscious Dreaming: A Spiritual Path for Everyday Life	Books	5	70	77	N	N	Top Notch, Plus Practice, Practice	Industrialized people such as ourselves are people who have inherited a profoundly distubing situation that has two faces: one is the destruction of our environment, the other are our atrophied spiritual senses, what I call our Otherworldly senses. Moss' book breathes new fire into our situation, calling on us to re-enliven a dreaming culture every bit as in tune with our souls and the living earth as the Australian culture that influenced him in his younger days, and the Scottish-Celtic druidic culture that shaped his ancestors. The problem with some of the other reviews I have read of this book are two-fold: instant, jaded disbelief, and what seems to be a lack of follow through on a pivotal point that Robert makes time and again: that success with active dreaming requires an active dreaming practice.  Practice. The book Conscious Dreaming is a profound introduction (or shall I say, reintroduction) of an ancient way of relating to our dreams and ways for apprehending a greater fluency with non-ordinary reality.  Anyone interested in dreams or incorporating a more shamanically-based dreaming practice into your life should consider CONSCIOUS DREAMING part of your required reading.	2002-06-15
US	49530757	R2OWIV9RQBT53V	0062506552	457642513	The Shaman's Body: A New Shamanism for Transforming Health, Relationships, and the Community	Books	5	22	22	N	N	Superb Treatment of Secondary Attention &amp; Shamanic Awareness	Arnold Mindell is truly a master, and The Shaman's Body is a superb treatment of a phenomenon known as Second Attention, or Secondary Awareness.  The premise: flowing as an undercurrent beneath our consensual, obvious and ordinary reality is a compelling dimension of energy that we might called non-ordinary reality, non-obvious reality, or the dreambody.  This book investigates this dimension of energy and awareness, not as some new-fangled New Age powder puff concept never brought into an embodied state, but precisely as a potent somatic way of knowing. Drawing upon his experiences with shamans from Native America, Asia, India, and Africa, as well as drawing out parallel themes from such contemporary exponents of shamanic awareness such as Carlos Castaneda, The Shaman's Body is a shamanic presentation of Arnold and Amy Mindell's core work, Dreambody Work--which is truly a powerful and transformative way of being.  One section in particular, Dreaming in the City, I found to be truly cutting edge, namely, where shamanism has to go as a practice and tradition if it, and we, are to survive. The healing applications, the concentric empowerment potential, and the transformative implications for our society found within this book are immense. Whether you are a shamanic practitioner, a therapist, an artist, or just a human being seeking to know all the parts of yourself, I recommend this book.  I personally have read it a number of times, including one cycle where I would read a section and then enter the city at night while listening to a CD on my headphones called Suspended Memories, Forgotten Gods--a MesoAmerican shamanic trance recording by Steve Roach, Jorge Reyes, and Suso Said. The recording felt almost like the soundtrack to Mindell's wonderful book, and in &quot;dropping in&quot; in this way the insights of The Shaman's Body practically began hopping out of the pavement at me. Track your ally.	2002-06-15
US	49530757	RC3JZ3LBEOJQ4	0671503006	382796246	Druid Animal Oracle	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Inspiring, Beautiful Journey Opening to Druid Totemism	Anything can be a divination system, but if you are going to work with one it might as well be beautiful and a way of learning knowledge and lore you are seeking to know.  I purchased The Druid Animal Oracle the first year it came out and continue to recommend it to people who are wanting to learn more about the totemic dimensions of the Druid traditions. Philip Carr-Gomm, Chosen Chief of the Order of Bards, Ovates, and Druids, and his lovely wife Stephanie, Scribe of OBOD, have applied their usual skill, creativity, and psychologically sophisticated lens to a realm that deserves such a treatment: our animal allies.  The suggested readings--which are applicable to other oracles and divination systems--have an interesting way of tapping into the undercurrent of the waking dream, while the artistic vision of Bill Worthington who created the paintings for the DAO has presented the animals/animal spirits in a fashion that truly transmits their essence and the perennial essence of the Druid spirit. Part of this is the result of his ingenious representation of the animals according to the principle of the Golden Mean, with each animal's eye falling in the same exact position on each card.  Some of the other imagery represented in the cards expresses quite well the megalithic inheritance of the Celtic lands--all of which were constructed by pre-Celtic peoples--yet which became holy sites to the incoming Celts and our &quot;medicine people&quot;, the Druids. Overall, the combination of spotless artistry combined with well-researched background history on each animal in the various Celtic traditions results in a beautiful tool for the modern seeker to learn about the sacred animals of the Druid tradition.	2002-06-15
US	49530757	R18EIQ8CZCX6G9	0062515055	69947221	Be A Goddess: A Guide to Magical Celtic Spells for Self-Healing, Prosperity and Great Sex	Books	3	43	49	N	N	Misleading, But Some Practical Elements	The one thing I liked about this book is the author's partial down-to-earth emphasis on having one's spiritual practice be connected to the hum-drum mundane elements of daily life for the sake of making them sacred. I think this is a real strong suit for this book, and DeGrandis' other writings: the practicality of them for the modern practitioner, most especially for women seeking a pathway of empowered spirituality in a culture that still disempowers the feminine.  From this vantage point I think the book serves a purpose.  However, putting on my Celtic scholar's and practitioner's hat, I'm afraid the down-to-earth style then goes out the window and some real misleading inaccuracies take place that I think really have the potential to stand as a liability for those individuals seeking the facts about the Celtic traditions.  This largely lies in the fact that DeGrandis, like so many others, links Wicca (a 1950's invented-religion based on largely English and Anglo-Saxon sources) with Celtic traditions, which to belabor the point here, have nothing to do with Wicca (see an excellent article on the web written by respected Celtic scholar Ian Mac'an'Tsoir on \\"Why Wicca Is Not Celtic\\".)  Wicca as an influence is a valid path for many. I'm not knocking this at all, and have immense respect for those individuals who embody that path.  However, if we are to make an honest assessment of it we must realize that it draws as much on Roman, Greek, Germanic, and Egyptian goddess worship, as anything else. Wicca (the modern path) is mildly modeled after the more ancient expressions of witchcraft in England, which is an authentic tradition hailing from Anglo-Saxon roots.  However, it is not 'Celtic' and I feel that DeGrandis' insistence on linking Wicca with Celtic tradition is misleading to the modern reader. Her \\"Celtic shamanism\\" seems to draw most heavily upon Irish faery lore and tradition, yet these are simply \\"the Gaelic faery traditions\\", they are not Wicca.  There isn't,to be concise, even a letter 'W' in the Gaelic language, meanwhile Anglo-Saxon Wita, Wicca, and witchcraft was never originally oriented to the Celtic customs or seasonal observances as she (and so many Wiccan writings) present.  If you are a woman who wants a book that supports you in getting spiritually practical in your life, then this book by De Grandis will aid you.  However, know that there are also some inaccuracies presented and that if you really want to learn about the authentic faery traditions of the Celtic world, by-pass all the Wiccan reinterpretations and head straight to the writings of R.J. Stewart.	2002-06-15
US	49530757	R2LEPEXTU44G13	002864266X	672674655	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Paganism	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Destined To Be A Classic Compendium	Carl McColman is no stranger to the important work of deep spiritual inquiry, integration, and synthesis.  However, in The Idiot's Guide to Paganism he truly blazes a new trail by making a much needed and substantial offering to the modern spiritual seeker who may find themselves moving through a domain that can often feel like a never-ending maze of switchbacks. This domain is none other than Paganism--a rich and varied \\"tradition of traditions\\" of which there are unending expressions. Given the astonishing amount of diversity, varied sources, occasional cross-over, and even contradictions found within various traditions of Paganism, Carl's artistry, precision, and mastery for articulation undoubtedly clear the way. His keen observation of the Pagan traditions, along with his own internal refinement as a spiritual practitioner and teacher himself, have sculpted a guide that will prove to be a friend for those seeking to make sense of the multi-layered weave of earth-based spiritual traditions.	2002-06-11
US	49530757	R36FHOZFA8PHPM	1892137038	954207646	The Underworld Initiation: A journey towards psychic transformation (Celtic Myth & Legend, V. 3)	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Astonishing, Powerful Articulation of a Non-Obvious Path	R.J. Stewart stands alone as the premiere voice and exponent for the profound inner teachings and &quot;mysteries&quot; of the faery tradition. All others before have not had the capacity or ingenuity with which to speak so clearly; all others after him will forever have to refer to his astonishing work in this book. Where the finite limitations of speech and the constrictions of cultural conditioning governed the likes of the late Scottish seer, Rev. Robert Kirk, R.J. Stewart has presented an energetic blueprint for understanding this empowered tradition, which lies like a subterranean kingdom beneath the ordinary reality. I found this work, and all of R.J.'s works involving what he calls the UnderWorld tradition, to be refreshing, potent, and also a relief at one point, as his section on the purgative and cathartic process of an awakening seer was quite validating. In essence, I recommend R.J.'s other two books in order (EARTH LIGHT and Power Within the Land), and then stepping into this astonishing work. Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path: Celtic Wisdom for Exiles, Wanderers, &amp; Seekers.	2002-06-11
US	49530757	R19ATODZUL4YE	1892137011	184860495	Earth Light: The Ancient Path to Transformation Rediscovering the Wisdom of Celtic & Faery Lore (Celtic Myth & Legend)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	An Extremely Important Introduction to an Ancient Way	R.J. Stewart--without pomp and circumstance, without sequins and neo-pagan drag-shows--has laid out for the contemporary seeker an empowered articulation of a viable, profound, and transformational spiritual path that is as ancient--truly--as humanity. Drawn largely from Celtic, as well as pre-Celtic sources of visionary tradition, R.J. writes in a very down-to-earth manner about a stream of visionary tradition that a great many cultures have known and continue to know--a tradition that lies like a subterranean kingdom beneath what we take to be consensual reality. EARTH LIGHT is a masterful introduction to an ancient way of seeing that influenced the Druids, various Scottish seers, as well as a plethora of wisemen and wisewomen who defy an easy label. EARTH LIGHT is the first of three books I recommend reading together, the second being Power Within The Land, and the third one being The UnderWorld Initiation. Frank MacEowen, author of The Mist-Filled Path: Celtic Wisdom for Exiles, Wanderers, &amp; Seekers	2002-06-11
US	49530757	R3EKBTACC2CM15	002864266X	672674655	The Complete Idiot's Guide to Paganism	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Destined To Be A Classic Compendium	Carl McColman is no stranger to the important work of deep spiritual inquiry, integration, and synthesis.  However, in The Idiot's Guide to Paganism he truly blazes a new trail by making a much needed and substantial offering to the modern spiritual seeker who may find themselves moving through a domain that can often feel like a never-ending maze of switchbacks. This domain is none other than Paganism--a rich and varied \\"tradition of traditions\\" of which there are unending expressions. Given the astonishing amount of diversity, varied sources, occasional cross-over, and even contradictions found within various traditions of Paganism, Carl's artistry, precision, and mastery for articulation undoubtedly clear the way. His keen observation of the Pagan traditions, along with his own internal refinement as a spiritual practitioner and teacher himself, have sculpted a guide that will prove to be a friend for those seeking to make sense of the multi-layered weave of earth-based spiritual traditions.	2002-06-11
US	49530757	R2BB5W8TU40SNI	1567184812	879021474	Druid Magic: The Practice of Celtic Wisdom	Books	3	74	79	N	N	Some Spirit, Some Inaccuracies	Druid Magic is a book that is certainly an interesting look at the beliefs and worldview of neo-Pagan Druidry--the contemporary reconstructionist Druid philosophy that has largely been inspired by the English 17th century Romanticist movement of Edward Williams.  However, I feel that it is important to make note that it cannot be taken as an accurate representation of the Druid tradition as a whole--the ancient religion of the various Celtic peoples. <br />The book attempts too much, attempting to serve as an authoritative historical perspective (which it falls short of, including a couple of glaring inaccuracies), and an offering of the practices of modern Druidry (which it could have done more of).   <br />New students and seekers exploring these ways will certainly find some valuable basic material addressing certain components of orientation that one will find in both neo-Pagan Druidry and in Druidism (the ancient druidic religious stream, as opposed to the neo-Druidry of today, which does in fact survive today in certain practices that have their source with continuing rural Celtic folk faiths as opposed to neo-reconstructionism).<br />However, unfortunately, many readers may be duped by DRUID MAGIC into taking their rendition of neo-Pagan Druidry to somehow be the full spectrum of the actual Druid tradition, and this is inaccurate. <br />I have to agree with the reviewer from Boulder, Colorado (see below) on two points as well.  <br />There WERE in fact organized colleges or learning centers of Druidism, most especially in Ireland and Scotland, including the Isle of Iona and North Uist.  The authors make a claim against such a phenomenon, yet even a scanty survey of druid history will suggest that many of the Celtic countries sent fledgling students to Scotland for tutelage. One of the most famous of the Draoi (druids) in Scotland was named Durach, who maintained a learning center on the Isle of Iona (known even today to some Scottish Highlanders as Isla na Druideach, Isle of the Druids) where he transmitted, essentially, the arts and skills of advanced psychic ability and extra-sensory perception ... <br />Likewise, the evidence is also overwhelmingly clear that in parts of Scotland and Ireland certain families of Druidic origin (namely the O'Cassidys, the MacPhersons, the MacMillans, the Lamonts, the MacEwens, etc.) transitioned into either bardic roles or church ecclesiastical roles within the Celtic Church, or both. <br />The authors make the classic mistake of neo-Pagan scholarship today (which almost always has an instant knee-jerk reaction to anything Christian without holding open the reality that there were very druidic-like versions of contemplative Christian practice) by suggesting that Druidism and the pre-Roman Celtic Christian contemplative and mystical traditions were somehow completely at odds, which they were not, historically, nor even theologically up to a certain point (\\"Christ the Word has always been among us. There has never been a time when the Druids of Britain did not know of the Word.\\"--Taliesin) <br />The authors do offer some interesting visualizations and meditations for the seeker and practitioner, to at least attune themselves to the spirit of certain druidic orientations and themes (the Otherworld, nature, etc.)--which might be helpful to some, but like so many of the Llewelyn books I was disappointed.	2002-06-01
US	49530757	R37WNRRLX2YEJP	0892819081	49804749	Celtic Sex Magic: For Couples, Groups, and Solitary Practitioners	Books	3	29	40	N	N	Exercise Discernment and Caution	My first comment is that I would urge readers to exercise discernment and caution with this subject matter in general. As a shamanic counselor who has worked with survivors of ritual abuse (and ritual sex abuse) the domain of the subject of this book is ripe for abuse and misinterpretation. While the author does offer some interesting information, does offer due diligence to things like health safety, and does seem to have a grasp of the advanced energy mechanics of tantric practices, etc., I think this work could have received much more care in its presentation and I also feel that more could have been written about the nature of responsibility and ethics in ritual work.	2002-05-17
US	49530757	R14K5Z6BREN863	0312072414	885951977	The Celtic Book of the Dead: A Guide for Your Voyage to the Celtic Otherworld (Cards/Spread-Cloth)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Over the Waves and Under the Hill	As always, Caitlin Matthews has managed to express in an outward and manifested object the deep strata of perennial truths of the Celtic soul.  The premise upon which she approaches her subject is a fascinating one. . . that, indeed, like the Tibetans and Egyptians, that the Celtic tradition has its own particular expressions of a 'Book of the Dead': a compendium of stories or tales believed to be of Otherworld origin that speak to the soul of the living about the passage after death.  The particular mythopoetic and shamanic root story that Caitlin approaches is that of Immram Curaig Maelduin Inso, or The Voyage of Maelduin's Boat.<br />Indeed, a fascinating account of a mystical voyage to thirty-three islands, each of which holds a particular adventure or lesson to the voyagers. Undoubtedly a strand of the many sea-faring tales of the Irish (such as St. Brendan the Navigator), the Immrama of Maelduin in THE CELTIC BOOK OF THE DEAD, proves to be an invaluable contribution to Celtic studies, visionary tradition, and the modern need to reincorporate the tools and sacred orientations of the psychopompic process (conscious death journey, or soul-leading). ...	2002-02-01
US	49530757	R3PN93J7U6MQZI	0062515381	337128940	The Celtic Spirit: Daily Meditations for the Turning Year	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Well-Sculpted Daily Meditations	Celtic spirituality is a vast domain, one that cannot truly be pinned down to one expression.  Aspects of the Celtic spirit are, no doubt, Pagan in form and essence--involving elements of Druidism, folk &quot;shamanism&quot; and faery lore, while other expressions draw upon the rich tradition of Celtic-Christian mysticism.  Woven in and throughout, almost as a kind of binding glue to the traditions, are the bardic traditions of verse, word, and story. Caitlin has done a marvelous job in The Celtic Spirit of expressing a footing in all forms of Celtic spirituality. This little book is an invitation, through the mode of a bardic-contemplative tool, to slow down each day, to meditate on some feature of the vast Celtic spiritual traditions, giving the reader the unmistakable sense that the Celtic spirit is not quarantined to some ancient, inaccessible past, but rather a living stream of inspiration that survives today.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	RR9FLMKPEJN53	1852305614	862888631	The Encyclopaedia of Celtic Wisdom: The Celtic Shaman's Sourcebook	Books	5	23	26	N	N	As of 1/6/01, One of the Top Three Books on Celtic Tradition	The Encyclopaedia of Celtic Wisdom is, hands down, required reading for anyone interested in the primal Celtic traditions, especially of the Irish and Scottish traditions. Where John Matthews' Taliesin and the Shamanic Mysteries of Britian addresses largely a Cymric (Welsh) and British leaning, The Encyclopaedia of Celtic Wisdom is, largely, rooted in the Irish, with some exploration of folk Scots beliefs and expressions of the shamanic (as in the case of the late and well-loved Scottish seer, Eliadh Watt).  As of January 2002 I consider this book to be one of the top three books on Celtic tradition, especially the visionary tradition of primal Celtic spirituality and the field of contemporary Celtic spirituality. It is a priceless addition to one's library, along with Tom Cowan's Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit, Mara Freeman's Kindling the Celtic Spirit. For a more classical exploration of these same themes I recommend The Silver Bough, by F. Marian McNeill.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	RL7MDZV5FKEOA	0862412315	885806648	001: The Silver Bough (Canongate Classic)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	A Classic Work That Should Be Re-released	F. Marian McNeill, in the tradition of Alexander Carmichael (Carmina Gadelica) and Anne Ross' The Folklore of the Scottish Highlands, has done an immense service in her writing The Silver Bough Series. These books are currently out of print, unfortunately. If you can find a copy of the first volume you will not be sorry. Little known are the other three volumes which explore a number of very ancient Scottish customs and beliefs, from Selkirk to Orkney to the Isle of Mull to Aberdeen and Fife, which survive to the present day in many cases. In an era of &quot;Celtic&quot; insta-books some of these classical ethnographic sources are deeply refreshing.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	R1YBBKFM55XJ3Q	0062501747	17446653	Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit	Books	5	91	92	N	N	After 10 years, still the BEST Intro to the Celtic animism	It has been nearly ten years now since Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit was released. Ten years. That is a very long time for readers to encounter a number of other books on Celtic traditions, shamanism, and Celtic spirituality in general. However, if we track back to 1993 when this book was first released we will quickly see that at that time there really had not been any sort of exhaustive study of the shamanic archetype within the Celtic traditions--which Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit clearly is. <br />Others who have reviewed this book and offered a less than gleaming assessment of the book are undoubtedly people who are seeking either more of a hands-on, experiential, or practical book on shamanic techniques (see Cowan's Shamanism As A Spiritual Practice for Daily Life), or something with a more classical scholarly 'feel' to it (see F. Marian McNeill's, The Silver Bough, W.Y.Evans-Wentz' The Fairy Faith in Celtic Countries, or Celtic Heritage by the Rees'). However, for an overall introduction to the numinous power and energy of the shamanic archetype within the primal Celtic traditions Fire in the Head, even after ten years, is still the best introduction. It is a wide-sweeping flight into the themes and topics, devoid of the particularities of personal cosmology one sees in so many other Celtic books. Cowan gets out of the way so that readers can have their own experience and make their own assumptions.  Certainly, once a person has read this it is time to read such works as Jean Markele's The Druids, Caitlin and John Matthews' The Encyclopaedia of Celtic Wisdom, etc., but, again, for an introduction to the core elements of primal Irish, Welsh, and Scottish animisitic spirituality this is still the best.<br />Regarding the exploration of witchcraft within Fire in the Head: All too often people assume that witchcraft and Wicca are synonymous. They are not. Wicca, largely, was invented in the 1950's. However, witchcraft (both black and white)is well documented as having been practiced in different parts of the Celtic world, as well as the Anglo-Saxon world. I think Tom's exploration of witchcraft is in keeping with the premise of the book--to peel back the layers of European animism in general and see where the shamanic energies may exist.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	R14R9WMI0JG764	1561011037	532082323	Living Between Worlds: Place and Journey in Celtic Spirituality	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Sound Scholarly Exploration of Celtic Christianity	Sheldrake has produced one of the more rich and historically accurate works on Celtic-Christianity to date. I enjoyed very much his working with various themes inseparable from Celtic spirituality, such as liminal space, pilgrimage and thresholds. I also found a great deal of value in his rekindling an awareness in the reader of the Rule of Tallacht, which includes a prayer-trance posture used by Celtic monks that undoubtedly hails from the druidic traditions. I thought he did a very good job of conveying that the native Druidism of Ireland and Scotland was not simply replaced over night by Celtic-Christian mysticism, but rather that Celtic-Christian mysticism grew out of Druidism. A good book.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	RWYYEXSE4L1A3	0895948389	347479545	Shamanism As a Spiritual Practice for Daily Life	Books	5	55	58	N	N	A Trustworthy Introduction to a Vast Realm	Half the battle of shamanism is undoing our conditioning and fragemntalist consciousness that has been modeled to us by modernity. Shamanism As A Spiritual Practice for Daily Life offers just such an invitation. Fans of Cowan's Fire in the Head: Shamanism and the Celtic Spirit who wanted 'the next step' in terms of practices will find a trustworthy introduction to the vast realm of shamanism and shamanic practice--though anyone, regardless of ancestral background, will enjoy the book as it was written from more of a &quot;core shamanic&quot; or &quot;core shamanist&quot; perspective.  In addition to introducing readers to the sacred topography of shamanism--usually but not always experienced as the Lowerworld, Middleworld and Upperworld, readers will also feel an astonishing sense of support offered to remember and reclaim their own inherent shamanic sensibilities that we all knew as children. The chapter on childhood is a masterpiece to contemplate, as it conjures up our old childhood haunts and explores the relevance of these to shamanic practice, while also offering words of support to parents who either have a shamanic-child or who want to, more generally, support the animistic nature of their children. Overall, this book is an inexpendable &quot;co-walker&quot; for those seeking to rekindle an animistic pathway of living.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	R314FOSL1O1RA4	1566192269	536108170	The Folklore of the Scottish Highlands	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Excellent Book on Scottish Highland Customs and Traditions	Anne Ross, in the tradition of F. Marian McNeill, has done a superb job in recording the core facets of Scottish Highland beliefs and customs. Covering such topics as the mystical elements surrounding Scottish clan lore, seers and the second sight, witchcraft (with the a thorough scholarly distinction made between white and black magic in Scottish tradition), cures/omens/taboos and social customs, as well as a wonderful exploration of Highland &quot;death teachings&quot; and cosmologies, The Folklore of the Scottish Highlands is one of those texts that will forever be looked back to. I wholeheartedly recommend it.	2002-01-06
US	49530757	R3VOKTI5EZK20T	1859060536	357733136	Celtic Wisdom Sticks: Ancient Ogam Symbols Offer Guidance for Today	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Dynamic Innovative Approach to Ogham	First off, let me say that I have incredible respect for the work and writings of Caitlin Matthews. I have followed her line of inquiry into the Celtic visionary tradition over the years and feel that she has done an incredible service to both Celtic and non-Celtic descendants by what she has produced. Her research into Ogam to produce The Celtic Wisdom Sticks is keeping in her prolific strides to produce time-tested, yet relevant means for people to deepen their practice. Her work on the Ogam is very good both via scholarship and translation but, probably even more importantly, via utilizing some of the very visionary states of consciousness employed by our Irish ancestors. The book really is very innovative in its consideration of the Ogam--speaking openly that the sacred markings have a utilitarian purpose, but also a visionary application.<BR>The actual \\"sticks\\" in the set The Celtic Wisdom sticks--at least in the ones I received--were not really that great, but I have since realized that, truly, they are merely meant as a guide--and that if your soul takes to the Ogam, and the soul of the Ogam takes to you, that you will eventually make your own set that has the mark of your own energy within them. And, I would recommend doing this. The 'forfedha' letters on the Four Airts, or Four Directional Indicator stave is truly ingenious and adds a remarkable sense of visionary continuity with other visionary practices in the Celtic tradition. The particular indicator stick I received in the set was a little imbalanced--which I think can throw a reading off and is another reason for making your own staves--but I find this innovation, like everything else Caitlin does, to be truly cutting edge, while honoring of the ancient.<BR>Many of the suggested readings are also beautiful, combining the best of intuition with the nature of this lore to guide those who walk in this way with a quality of \\"the next step,\\" which any working oracle should do. The Oghams, like the Runes and the Yarrow Sticks of the I-Ching, are not a static and lifeless oracle, but a living, breathing being that becomes a co-walker in your life.<BR>To this end, I feel that the book is well worth the purchase, but I would recommend using the actual sticks that one receives in The Celtic Wisdom Sticks as simply a model or guide for creating your own set. Definitely reap the harvest of Caitlin's analepsis, as she puts it, but buy this set primarily for the book.	2001-11-10
US	49530757	R21RYH9YZA3J6I	1577311825	985187717	The Tao of Equus: A Woman's Journey of Healing and Transformation Through the Way of the Horse	Books	5	6	7	N	N	The Book Galloped Right Up My Spine	This is an astonishingly complex and beautiful work. Linda has captured in words something that many of us, who grew up in a saddle, have sensed. A much needed blend of personal story and scholarship was reached in The Tao of Equus, all of which left me with an overall feeling: we have vastly underestimated the intelligence and spiritual significance of our animal brothers and sisters. Linda expresses this in no uncertain terms. For people interested in shamanism, equine-assisted therapeutic modalities, healing, the Spirit World, or who just want to encounter a poignant tale of healing the human-horse bond.	2001-10-25
US	49530757	R3PJEA2KAS6V5W	0062501569	883947999	The Serpent and the Goddess: Women, Religion, and Power in Celtic Ireland	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Invite Home the Power of the Irish Feminine	This book should not be out of print, furthermore, every Irish descendant should read it. The Serpent and the Goddess is an in-depth exploration of the demise of the feminine in Ireland by a Romanized and patriarchal Christian tradition. Condren pulls no punches and she probably could have thrown a few more. The hopeful aire to the book is the fact that the Irish feminine has not disappeared, and her piece by piece, step by step mapping of the suppression of the feminine in the Celtic traditions is done in such a manner to almost offer a prophetic vision of her return, within both primal, druidic as well as in Celtic Christian ways.	2001-08-21
US	49530757	R1C4K1II45AAD2	0094652406	225511105	Ravens and Black Rain: Story of Highland Second Sight	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Within the Fold of Ancient and Modern Seeing	Elizabeth Sutherland has done a great service to all of us who hail from Scottish Highland heritage. She has mapped out through exhaustive scholarship the cosmologies, traditions and lore surrounding the ways of the seer in Scottish ways. A compilation of oral traditions and stories, including first hand accounts, of engaged seership in ancient, Culloden-era as well as contemporary Scotland, Ravens and Black Rain is an exquisite introduction to An Da Shealladh (the Two Sights), with plenty of meaty material for seasoned scholars or practitioners to consider. My favorite aspect of the book is, perhaps, Ms. Sutherland's matter of fact way of speaking about the sight as simply an extension of the old Druidic traditions alive and well in the milieu of a contemporary Scotland.	2001-08-21
US	49530757	R1AOFP7DUWUAI9	1852306165	669974949	Singing the Soul Back Home: Shamanism in Daily Life (Earth Quest)	Books	5	17	17	N	N	A Practical Reanimation of Animistic Practice	Singing The Soul Back Home is a refreshing and approachable introduction to shamanism for people who have not encountered the practices and cosmologies of 'walking between the worlds.' What is perfected in this work from cover to cover is the blend of personal account (Caitlin's own childhood), with a thorough yet heartful introduction to shamanic cosmology. Fleshed out with plenty of practices and &quot;permissions&quot; for people to approach a revisioning of how they perceive the world around them, Singing the Soul Back Home does exactly what its title suggests. It deserves to sit alongside other works in shamanism, such as Harner's The Way of the Shaman and Tom Cowan's Shamanism As A Spiritual Practice for Daily Life.	2001-08-21
US	49530757	R3SM8VXYB9BF4V	1567184812	879021474	Druid Magic: The Practice of Celtic Wisdom	Books	2	65	74	N	N	Disney Land Druids	I find it unfortunate that in an era where some incredible research is being released on the Druids in books such as The Druids, by Peter Berresford Ellis and The Druids: Celtic Nature Priests, by Jean Markele, that something like this would come out and make some of the outlandish claims that it does, e.g., there were never Druid colleges, or Druids never transitioned smoothly into Celtic Christianity.  <br />Where did you dredge this up? In the Scottish Highlands there is very good evidence that there were Druid colleges (see &quot;Celtic Druidism: Early Colleges in the Highlands and Islands of Scotland&quot;, Dalriada Celtic Heritage Trust journal DALRIADA, Bealtinne 2000 issue, written by an authentic living seannachie (bard) from the Isle of Skye named George MacPherson.<br />We know very well from both oral tradition and recorded accounts within Highland and Irish culture that the Isle of Iona was the site of a college of Druidic training before the coming of Columkille.  No, there were no people from southern England in attendance.  It was a center of transmission to specifically Gaelic Druids.<br />There is also an incredible wealth of information available now about the transition of Druids over into the pre-Roman Church of the Celts.  (See Ellis' The Druids--a much better purchase for your pound).  Certainly there was resistance in some cases and certainly there was resistance of Celtic missionaries to some of the indigenous Druidic religion as well, but the evidence of a synthesis at this point far outweighs the former.<br />The problem with Celtic-fantasy books like Druid Magic is that it strives for a kind of mish-mash of Welsh, Irish, Scottish and Breton culture, without realizing that Celtic mysticism, religions, folk shamanism and Druidism was not some kind of homogenized tradition.  There are drastic differences between the customs and languages (and therefore the thought processes) of people in Wales, Scotland and Ireland.  <br />Ironic that in this book there is a desire to distance their &quot;druidry&quot; from anything that might involve the Celtic Christian tradition, and yet they actively cling to an archetype of the &quot;Peregrine Druid.&quot;  The 'peregrinatio' metaphor and mythos is actually part of the Desert monastic tradition of pre-Roman Christian mysticism of which the Celtic Church was a part before the Synod of Whitby.<br />I cannot recommend this book.  I think readers would be much more highly served by some of the more respected writers in the field, such as F. Marian McNeill's 'The Silver Bough', Elizabeth Sutherland's 'Ravens and Black Rain', Francis Thompson's 'The Supernatural Highlands', Anne Ross' 'Folklore of the Scottish Highlands' and the very excellent work of Jean Markele and Peter Berresford Ellis.  For the experientially inclined I recommend Tom Cowan's Fire in the Head and similar writings.  But, generally speaking--and I think my perception is shared by many of us in the Irish and Scottish community--if you pick up a book on Paganism, Druidism or Celtic matters and you see a little crescent moon on the binding of the book, place it carefully back upon the shelf and keep looking.  The historical inaccuracies and fly-by-the-seat of our witchbrooms in these Celtic-fantasy works aren't even worth starting your Bealtinne fire with.  Sorry to be so harsh, but come on. . . . . .	2000-09-22
