US	49555714	R3K36H6LCGCCK8	034542252X	472208605	Rose	Books	5	3	3	N	N	More than one mystery!!	The setting is the Lancashire coal pits of Victorian England.  African explorer Jonathan Blair, legendary to mythical proportions, is summoned home from his beloved Africa for dipping into missionary Bible funds to pay his African assistants.  To earn a return trip to Africa from his benefactor, Bishop Lord Hannay, he is commissioned to find the missing local curate, John Maypole, who happens to be engaged to Hannay's daughter, Charlotte.<br />More interested in returning to Africa than determining the whereabouts of Maypole, Blair half-heartedly plunges into the village life of Wigan.  He becomes familiar with the local miners and the pit girls who work at the mines sorting coal, a shocking and controversial occupation for a woman of the times.  Knowledgeable about mining from his searches for gold in Africa, Blair explores the coal pit where on the same day Maypole disappeared, seventy six miners were killed in an explosion.  Did Maypole, while ministering to the miners, perish in the explosion?<br />Given a list of people last seen with Maypole before his disappearance, he questions each in turn, including a beautiful pit girl named Rose Molyneaux who lives quite well in comparison to her income.  Blair's familiarity with Rose ruffles the feathers of Rose's boyfriend, Bill Jaxon, a miner with a streak of brutality.  Given that Maypole was also friendly with Rose, did Jaxon have anything to do with his disappearance?<br />And then there is Charlotte Hannay.  Somber, sharp-tongued, independent, committed to working with fallen women, Charlotte shows little concern for her missing fiance'.  Maypole had much to gain from marriage to a wealthy bishop's daughter.  However, with each passing day, Blair becomes more and more aware of the fact that no one is really interested in the missing Maypole.  So why is he being paid to find him?  <br />&quot;Rose&quot; is a mystery within a mystery.  It is also beautifully developed with colorful characters and vividly gothic atmosphere.  Blair's character is lovable with his dry sense of humor.  Martin Cruz Smith incorporates Lancashire dialect in the writing and offers enough knowledge of coal mining to make the book readable without being overly technical.  Very enjoyable book!	2002-08-19
US	49555714	R3JY2ULKXRLQU1	0375724672	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang: A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Tale of frustration	True History of the Kelly Gang is written as an autobiography penned by Ned Kelly, poverty-stricken victim of the Australian legal system of the 1880s.  Written as if by an uneducated man to his only child (whom he never got to see), the novel exemplifies the role social and economic factors play in the creation of a criminal.<br />Ned Kelly committed his first crime at the age of nine.  He slaughtered a cow belonging to a neighbor because his family was starving.  This crime sets the tone for the rest of the story, comprised of attempts to stay on the right side of the law, followed by acts of thievery and ultimately murder.  Ned's father was sent to prison for the theft of the cow, leaving young Ned shouldering responsibility for the family. <br />Ned Kelly was a basically good man, devoted to a family who showed little affection for him.  His code of honor, which included \\"family first\\", most often pushed him into stupid decisions with horrible repercussions. His frustration with the system left him wanting to speak out and explain injustice, corruption and poverty, but he didn't have an audience.  He decided to write his story and have it published so those who could make changes would know the situation, but Ned couldn't get his story published -- not by legal or illegal means.<br />True History of the Kelly Gang was a very creative novel.  Ned Kelly died wanting to be heard, wanting his story published.  And here it is, over 100 years after his death.  Sadly enough little has changed in those 100 years.  Poverty and police corruption still force good people into desperate measures.  It isn't a pretty story, but it is one you will remember.	2002-07-29
US	49555714	R2I685713JHMMX	1559277238	52382288	Hard Eight (Stephanie Plum, No. 8)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not bad at all!	I listened to the cassette version of Hard Eight while driving on my vacation.  This is my first Stephanie Plum mystery and I don't often listen to books on cassette; however, my son and I both enjoyed this humorous whodunit.  <br />Stephanie tackles a case of a missing child and her mother.  Things quickly become exciting when Stephen Soder, the father and ex-husband of the missing duo, is found dead -- on Stephanie's sofa!  Exploding cars, hysterical run ins with an unsavory guy with credit card problems, and a memorable cast of characters (including a reformed prostitute and a dweeb lawyer) make this book a winner.	2002-07-24
US	49555714	R50IEL9F6J5QI	0786708093	316805307	Lying with the Enemy: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A different kind of war story!	The island of Guernsey in the English Channel between England and France is the setting of this mid-World War II whodunit.  This is probably the most subtle mystery I have ever read.  I had no idea who the killer was until the last few pages (no peeking!)<br />Scotland Yard trained Ned Luscombe stayed on Guernsey to bury his father rather than retreat to England and escape life under Nazi occupation.  When Isobel, the young beautiful daughter of a Nazi collaborator and the lover of Nazi Major Lentsch, is found murdered, Ned is called upon to solve the crime.  <br />Tim Binding has written a terrific book.  It is unique in the relationships among the Germans, the roles played by the islanders and, again, the subtlety of the plot.  You gotta read it!	2002-07-08
US	49555714	R2DK32J3RG7EE3	0385334036	583323315	The Smoke Jumper	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Two men and a woman	Best friends from two different worlds -- one a rich kid with health problems and a passion for music, the other a modern-day cowboy with a flair for photography.  Both are handsome, charming and live on the edge as smoke jumpers, fire-fighters who sky dive into the smoke shrouded world of forest fires. Inevitable complications arise when Ed introduces his girlfriend, Julia, to Connor.<br />Julia, a youth counselor who travels to Montana to be near Ed and to work for the summer with troubled youth, feels that magical and mysterious connection to Connor and he feels the same for her.  Out of love and respect for Ed, their feelings go unspoken.  However, a forest fire, which traps Julia and a teenage charge, leaves Julia, Ed and Connor dealing with multiple life or death situations and forever alters their lives.<br />Connor reaches Julia in time to save her life, but Julia is devastated by the death of the young girl, Skye...<br />I tip my hat to Sparks for writing in a genre (love story fiction) that few men want to venture into.  There is a lot of action in this book; however, I found this book to be very disjointed.  There was much jerking around of the plot, the characters and the timeline.  Everything seemed so forced, lacking the smoothness of other Sparks novels.	2002-07-08
US	49555714	R36TJ8M3J1D1O2	0375753834	926761267	Georgiana: Duchess of Devonshire	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Unique for her time	I confess that I had no idea who Georgiana was before I picked up this biography, but I was so fascinated by this woman that I had a difficult time laying it aside.<br />Georgiana was a trendsetter extraordinaire of her day.  She freely experimented with fashion, regularly made all the gossip columns and gambled away more than one fortune, sums of money staggering even by today's standards.  What I found particularly impressive about her was her grasp of and influence upon political matters.  She actively campaigned for candidates, something previously unheard of for a woman in the 18th century. <br />You'll need a baseball score card to keep track of the romantic entanglements.  For example, Georgiana's best friend, with whom some believed she had a lesbian relationship, gave birth to Georgiana's husband's child.  And those politicians she hobnobbed with?  You've heard the old saying that politics makes strange bedfellows?  When reading this book, you may take that saying literally.<br />The tidbits of rumor and innuendo thrown in by Forman helped to make this biography very readable.  Well-researched, gossipy but scholarly, Amanda Forman did her homework before putting Georgiana to press.	2002-06-27
US	49555714	R1WZZMRC7LA5DA	0380815923	418329284	Blackberry Wine: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Savor this one!	Told in two time sequences with much humor and angst, Blackberry Wine is an adult coming-of-age story.  Jay Macintosh, a one-hit wonder in the literary world, reduced to writing bad sci-fi, grows understandably disillusioned with his life.  Now in his mid-thirties, Jay is haunted by the disappearance of the most influential person he has ever known, a coal miner turned horticulturalist named Joe.  His time with Joe was the inspiration for Jay's one publishing success.  Unhappy in life and armed with the final few bottles of Joe's homemade wine, he impulsively flees to the French countryside, seeking simplicity and elusive peace.<BR> <BR>But is anything ever simple?  The farmhouse he has purchased before leaving England was originally sold to another -- a young widow struggling for survival with her deaf daughter.  Bad feelings exist between the widow, Marise, and the various villagers whom Jay meets.  The village is torn between the need for economic advancement and progress and the wish to maintain its character.  And the farmhouse -- well, could use some work.  There are bright spots:  Jay's writer's block evaporates and he begins a long-time-coming novel.  Most amazing of all -- Joe (or is it really Joe?) returns to Jay, appearing and disappearing, offering his homespun wisdom and guidance.<br />Filled with surprises and pain, Blackberry Wine is a beautiful book from a talented writer.  Joanne Harris is gifted, with a long and successful career ahead of her.	2002-06-25
US	49555714	R23UBSE9WQXA0T	0060984422	892476030	Consuming Passions: A Food-Obsessed Life	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Delicious!	Consuming Passions was destined to be a winner with me.  A book about food and family -- only taste tests of the included recipes could have improved this book!!  <br />Michael Lee West has chronicled her life as spent in a kitchen or a dining room, from learning to cook as a young woman to her pride in her son, the chef.  Recipes, whether gleaned from friends and family or her own, are included.  I can't wait to try Cousin Lila's Sweet Potato Souffle and the Brabham Family Chocolate Sheet Cake.  She even explains to the non-Southerner the preferred way to make Sweet Iced Tea (this I already knew, of course!)  <br />Some of the information is very helpful as well.  The chapter spent on how to season cast iron cooking pans is a must read.  Anyone who has ever tried the seasoning process knows of the grief it can cause.<br />And the humor!  As in each Michael Lee West book, the laughs keep coming.  I so want to meet her Mama (of the massive canvas pocketbook fame) and her Aunt Dell (in all of her sartorial splendor)!  <br />I do have one problem with this book.  I can't decide if I should keep it in the kitchen with the cookbooks or shelve it in the den with the rest of my books.  I'm tempted to buy another and keep one in each place.  A true gem!	2002-06-03
US	49555714	R1N2P83ZEWAUMQ	0380731134	902223830	The Camelot Caper	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Guinevere included .....	A long time reader of Elizabeth Peter's Amelia Peabody series, I found The Camelot Caper to be a good change of pace.  As a trained archeologist, Peters's books are always a good combination of realisitic history and imaginative mystery.<br />In The Camelot Caper, young American Jessica Tregarth is summoned to England by an elderly grandfather whom she has never met.  On the outs with her father and his son, Grandpa has to wait while Jess dodges two unsavory characters who harass and threaten her across jolly old England.  Along the way she meets David Randall, a young writer of suspense novels, who helps Jess in sorting out the whys and wherefores of the chase and manages to fall in love with her, too.<br />The chase was something of a drag, but the moment they pull up in front of the old family homeplace in Cornwall, the excitement escalates.  A dreary, decrepit old manor house, complete with a now deceased Grandpa, sets an excellent scene for the unmasking of the two unsavory characters and the explanation for the cross-country stalking.<br />As with any book written decades ago, the time warp issue becomes a factor.  It was rather enjoyable to try to picture the clothing the characters were described as wearing.  All in all, this is a solid, interesting suspense novel.  An enjoyable read!	2002-06-03
US	49555714	R23P4BO0LY9NS	0345381645	237729417	The Vanished Child	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Very enjoyable!	Although the scientific jargon of the opening pages almost changed my mind about reading &quot;The Vanished Child,&quot; I trudged through and found one of the most intriguing mysteries I have ever read.  <br />Alex or Richard?  Is the up-and-coming young scientist an Austrian baron or a missing American heir?  A fortune depends on his identity and more is at stake than money.  This tangle of intrigue is intelligent and somewhat haunting.  One reviewer complained that not all of the loose ends were tidied up and that is true, but it leaves you thinking and involved long after the final &quot;The End.&quot;	2002-05-30
US	49555714	RV5GW5S3DUB2S	0385334060	58338511	A Still Small Voice	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Exquisite!	I wish more books were written along the same lines as \\"A Still Small Voice.\\"  John Reed has produced a meticulously written narrative full of grace and gentility, emotion and strength.  <br />This is the story of Alma, orphaned and taken in by her aunt, the root doctor, who teaches Alma folk medicine, self-sufficiency, wisdom and courage.  Set before, during and after the Civil War, this is not a war story, although the circumstances of the war figure greatly.  This is a coming of age book in which the female lead learns what every American girl should know -- that it is okay to be yourself and like yourself.<br />Reminded me in many ways of the \\"Little House on the Prairie\\" series.  Written without gratuitous violence, sex or foul language, I recommend \\"A Still Small Voice\\" for teenagers as well as adults.	2002-05-20
US	49555714	R1YZDTI9CA9XCO	0060186380	795309718	Call Each River Jordan: A Novel of Historical Suspense	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not your typical mystery	I live just a stone's throw from the Shiloh battlefield.  I have walked that once blood saturated ground an untold number of times.  I've read, seen, visited, even picnicked where wholesale slaughter was the once the game, but nothing I've encountered before was as vividly real and tangible as the first 25 pages of \\"Call Each River Jordan.\\"  The quality of the writing is beyond description.  Read it ... just read it!<br />And then there is the plot.  If the book has a weakness, it is in promising suspense and not really delivering.  However, the atmospheric tension and characterization is fine enough to cover the the lack of plot twists and other devices synonymous with mysteries.  <br />President Lincoln hand picks Major Abel Jones to solve the mass murder of 40 slaves attempting to escape to the North.  In order to do so, he must obtain the cooperation of the Confederate Army following their humiliating defeat at Shiloh.  Aided by a young southern aristocrat and his English manservant, Jones travels the hills, the fields, and the swamp bottoms of Mississippi, meeting both blacks and whites of all social stratas.<br />This isn't a cozy, comfortable book.  Slavery was ugly.  The Civil War was ugly.  Mankind can be incredibly ugly.  The only beauty in this novel is in the polished writing.  Fans of quality literature and history buffs will find it as difficult to put down as I did.	2002-04-22
US	49555714	R2PV9ZPLB0AFSE	B000062UHX	184600193	Never Change	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Five stars and five hankies!	Sometimes you just need a good cathartic cry.  To aid you along, read this book!  <br />Myra was the high school wallflower -- always on the sidelines envying those who had the social success and happy family that she longed for.  Now middle-aged with a fulfilling career in nursing, who does she run into but the old high school heartthrob.  You remember him.  Great looks, football player, wealthy, had the Barbie-like girlfriend.  However, times have changed for Chip.  Sickened by a terminal brain tumor, he has returned to his hometown to die.  And who is his nurse?  Myra.<br />For those of us who were wallflowers like Myra, this book is emotional blackmail, guaranteed to dredge up those old insecurities and the romantic yearnings that didn't quite get fulfilled.  If you weren't a Myra, you'll miss out on the emotional tug.  <br />However, the best reason to read Never Change is that Elizabeth Berg has a gift for perspective that is incredible.  She is perceptive and observant, qualities that give her characters dimension and the plot depth.  Without Berg's gift, this and her other novels might be reduced to emotional drivel.  Terminal cancer isn't a topic to induce laughter either in reality or fiction.  Berg gives Chip dignity and makes the reader walk in his shoes.  <br />I also read Talk Before Sleep by Berg which also tackles the issues surrounding death by cancer.  Talk Before Sleep was one of the best books that I read in 2001.  Never Change may end up in my top ten for 2002.	2002-04-14
US	49555714	R1NVNBTQ9AKK8N	0824519655	274425289	Against an Infinite Horizon: The Finger of God in Our Everyday Lives	Books	5	82	84	N	N	Read it and think!	Christian books often become cliche, filled with the same old rhetoric and dogma that leaves us cold and searching; however, \\"Against an Infinite Horizon\\" is very fresh in its approach to seeing God in every moment.  <br />I can't think of one aspect of living that Rolheiser omitted.  He discusses social justice, marriage and sexuality (His assertion that sex is a sacrament still has me thinking!), death, the gender of God, and the simple act of being grateful.  <br />I didn't always agree with his premises, but Rolheiser gives so many unique perspectives from which to view the ordinary in our lives that you will simply devour this book.  He challenges the reader to reconsider our lives and how we view ourselves \\"against the infinite horizon\\" of God.  There were times when, with my mouth open, I had to stop mid-paragraph and think about what he had said.  Nothing revolutionary, just a fresh approach.<br />This is an excellent book for group discussions,or, like me, for personal growth.  Read it and think!	2002-03-23
US	49555714	R2WRQVM6FPI0M1	039914787X	92000199	Valhalla Rising (Dirk Pitt Adventures)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mr. Perfect!	Thank goodness that Dirk Pitt never makes mistakes.  If so, the world would have been obliterated a million times over.  You have to give Clive Cussler five stars for creativity.  So many close shaves, so many bad guys, so many gorgeous babes!<br />Yes, I know that Cussler's books are little more than cartoons for adults, but I do enjoy them!  Dirk Pitt is a man's idea of the ultimate man -- macho, handsome, rich, can't fail, powerful, lots of toys (picture Schwarzenegger without the accent.)  But, sorry, it isn't Dirk that attracts me to Cussler's books -- it's the action.  The Dirk Pitt series is brimming with one catastrophe after another and, TA DA!!!, it's Pitt to the rescue.<br />It's an imaginative, non-stop fun read with a little surprise (for Dirk and for the readers) at the end.	2002-02-05
US	49555714	R1LVEO5U1ADFPT	0425179451	845335712	Death by Darjeeling (A Tea Shop Mystery)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Great atmosphere	Death by Darjeeling was an okay quickie read.  The plot earned only three of the four stars that I gave it.  The basic premise -- Charlestonian blueblood, who owns a quaint little tea shop in the historic district, caters a tea party at which a greedy developer dies while sipping a cuppa -- was interesting.  However, I don't feel that the author gave any depth to the plot.  Instead of a novel, this was more like a television script. Characters were given only enough of an introduction to make them suspects.<br />The fourth star was given for the local color and atmosphere that Laura Childs managed to capture.  I know Charleston fairly well, and I really enjoyed the little touches she threw into the book.  Descriptions of the gardens and alleyways between the homes, the church bells, the islands and seagrass baskets bring back terrific memories.  And if you're a food lover, you'll flip over the descriptions of the teas and sweets.<br />I'll continue to read the series, but I do hope there is more depth to the next book than there was to this one.	2002-01-28
US	49555714	R6WM90GTY0BTW	0345425308	772509401	Violin	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Beautifully spoken catharsis	In this pain-packed volume of beautifully expressed emotion, many demons are conquered -- the most infuriating of which is Stefan, a frustrated Stradivarius-obsessed ghost from long ago Austria, who haunts Triana, a newly widowed lover of classical music.  Stefan uses Triana's painful past (a drunken mother, a negligent father, a broken marriage) and various losses (a daughter killed by cancer, a husband killed by AIDS, and a sister whose whereabouts are unknown) in an effort to justify his own sin of killing his father rather than relinquish his beloved Stradivarius.  <br />Stefan tells Triana up front that he intends to drive her to madness.  Using the misfortune in her life, he gives it a good effort; however, Triana proves herself stronger than he.  Rather than harming her, Stefan helps Triana to heal, achieve and overcome.  <br />Rice's beautiful writing is disruptive and confusing, and it should be.  She is writing about hallucinations, conversations with a ghost, void of physical reality, but filled with the tone and fiber and emotion of dreams everyone experiences.  <br />This is a unique book, the first by Anne Rice that I have read, and I believe a very under-appreciated book.	2002-01-26
US	49555714	R3GVEG70KJYBTI	0767904982	404856428	Running to the Mountain: A Midlife Adventure	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Living a dream	Running to the Mountain is your basic mid-life crisis story except that Jon Katz -- for all his protestations of financial woes -- managed to afford to do what the rest of us would love to do:  buy a little cabin in the woods, fix 'er up, and live the country life, watching the sun set.  Sounds wonderful to me and more power to Katz for managing it.<br />The heart and soul of the book was lacking for me.  It wasn't emotional enough.  He outlined his concerns regarding his career, marriage and daughter, the changes in the lives of his friends, the lack of acceptance in our society for men who work at home while the wife does the nine-to-five dance, but he laid them out as simple facts.  The emotional turmoil and confusion associated with mid-life re-evaluations (I'm in denial about having a \\"crisis\\") is not there.<br />His relationships with the locals was interesting and his observations of Thomas Merton and his writings were excellent.   <br />For all of us who dream of escape, here's one for us!  Just fill in the emotional blanks to suit yourself.	2002-01-22
US	49555714	R1P9WNM2BXIAR5	0060959037	822422067	Prodigal Summer: A Novel	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A classically great novelist ....	Barbara Kingsolver is unquestionably one of our greatest living novelists.  She crafts her art subtly, packing a force that's hard to shake off after the final page.<br />Prodigal Summer is a very sexual novel, considering the reproduction of all forms of life -- plant, animal and man.  It also very clearly plays out the delicate balance of the roles of plants, animals, and man in nature, how interconnected and dependent each life form is on another.  <br />Through three plot lines of beautifully created characters, Kingsolver presents the different points of view of nature, ecology, and man's dominion over the earth.  There are hunters and their prey -- animals vs. man vs. nature.  Envision a triangular pattern between the three and you can see the intricacy of the novel.<br />I loved this book, waiting until the initial hoopla of its release was over to read it and judge it unbiasedly.  It's easy to be carried away by the publicity; however, this book deserves to be a best seller, deserves to be read, and re-read for generations to come.  Ecology and the controvery surrounding mankind's rape of the land is a subject that should be dear to everyone's heart.  Read it and decide for yourself.	2002-01-10
US	49555714	R1OTF3BC4HWQ89	1576733971	185743888	Island of Refuge	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bravo!	Island of Refuge is a subtly drawn together story of a rag-tag group of down-and-outers coming together in an abandoned church on Lamb's Island, a rocky, wind-blown patch off the coast of Maine.  Lamb's Island is very much off the beaten path with only one way on and off the island.  You have to really want to be there to get there.  The living is plain and hard, close to the land and the ocean.<br />The aimlessly wandering, searching souls arrive one at a time and find shelter and peace until the death of a young mother shakes the island refuge and reawakens the pain of the loss of another young woman twenty years earlier.  With the stoicism inherent in the islanders, life continues as normal, but with suspicion towards the group of church-dwellers who have wounds enough that need to heal.<br />With delicate intricacy, Hall has interwoven the lives of the characters from the island, the mainland and Canada.  Very well done.  I had a hard time laying aside this well-plotted mystery, so full of expression.	2001-12-07
US	49555714	R356YG1BH3Q5N3	0380809362	838030657	The House of Gentle Men: A Novel	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Just imagine .....	Imagine a pleace where men who have in some way hurt women can go to offer penance for their actions. Imagine a place where women who have been hurt by men can go to be healed of their pain. That place is called the House of Gentle Men. Without giving too much of the plot away, Charlotte, who is raped by three soldiers a mere two weeks after witnessing her mother die in a fire started by Charlotte's brother, is unwittingly reunited at the House of Gentle Men with Justin, one of the soldiers who participated in the rape. We observe as they slowly chip away the wall of ice they have built around themselves -- Charlotte in self-defense and Justin as self-punishment. We learn about the child that Charlotte bore as the result of the rape and then, as an act of defiance against God, abandoned. The House of Gentle Men has an unusual effect on everyone connected with it, from the men who live there, to the women who surreptitiously arrive there under the cover of night, to the townspeople who gossip and wonder about this extraordinary haven on the outskirts of town. This is such a beautiful novel, with a unique plot, lyrical writing and the twists and turns of luck and fate. I am very anxious to read Ms. Hepinstall's next offering. With the talent she has displayed in &quot;The House of Gentle Men&quot;, I'm certain her next book will be just as enjoyable.	2001-08-24
US	49555714	R3RHOIXHPG1PG6	0688177751	445501217	Miss Julia Speaks Her Mind: A Novel	Books	4	71	72	N	N	Southern womanhood	This rip-snorter of a novel revolves around the mess Miss Julia inherited from her late husband, Wesley Lloyd -- bank president and pillar of the community. It seems that, unbeknownst to Miss Julia, Wesley Lloyd had fathered a child, a child who is subsequently left on her front porch by his mother who then disappeared. Miss Julia is bombarded by gossipmongering fellow parishioners from the Presbyterian Church, a pastor who is long on greed and ambition and short on sympathy and comfort, a televangelist with dollar signs in his eyes, and, well, Heavens, what is a woman to do? As Miss Julia reminds us readers many times over, she didn't ask for any of this! This knee-slapper is actually fairly accurate in its presentation of women &quot;sheltered&quot; by men, women who are &quot;taken care of&quot; and not allowed to &quot;worry&quot; about anything. The story is well paced and plotted and offers surprises and excitement. My book club was unanimous in its opinion -- this is a winner!	2001-08-24
US	49555714	R295S0CINTROJX	0515128821	842485314	The Breaker	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Well executed .....	Minette Walters offers us the tale of a young woman whose nude and battered body is found washed ashore from the sea while her young toddler daughter is found wandering alone in a nearby village.  As events unfold we learn about the suspects:  her obsessive research scientist husband and the self-obsessed actor who summoned police to her body.  Throw in pornography, drugs, scuzzy friends, and a blossoming romance for the local policeman and you've got the recipe for a well-rounded whodunit.  <br />This was a relatively quick read, but, as with all murder mysteries, details were important.  I confess I wasn't certain about the killer's identity until the end.  The plot was evenly paced and the personalities of the various characters were well presented.	2001-08-11
US	49555714	R2GB7Q8B6H3C6W	0618094997	306036293	All We Know of Heaven	Books	4	22	22	N	N	Searching for the meaning of life	Written by a Benedictine monk, &quot;All We Know of Heaven&quot; offers us a glimpse of life in a cloistered religious order, where 19-year-old Paul Seneschal has gone in search of the meaning of life.<br />Uncertain of his calling to religious life, Paul sees a falling star hurtling towards him in the night sky and takes it as a sign from God.  At what he believes to be the meteor's point of impact, Paul finds a small unusual black rock that he keeps as a talisman and apparent validation of his decision.  Against his parents wishes, he takes up residence at St. Norbert Abbey in Canada with Cistercian monks.  <br />With all of their foibles and indiosyncracies, the men are more human than holy.  Far from retreating into seclusion from the world, Paul, now known as Brother Antoine, finds a microcosm of the world.  He meets gentle men who offer evidence of their faith through quiet, simple living.  He also meets grumpy old men who yell at him for speaking English instead of French, seemingly bitter men who appear to hate everyone else, a brother who is a pyromaniac, brothers who fall asleep during prayers and irreverently speak when they shouldn't. Most troubling for him personally, he lmust confront his own sexual needs in a life of celibacy.<br />As the book progresses, we see Brother Antoine mature as a man and as a monk.  In learning to accept others and most especially himself, he begins to find the threads to the meaning of life and finds peace with his vocation.<br />This is an eloquently written book, most astutely written from an insider's perspective.  Rougeau's writing is intelligent, thoughtful and entertaining.  Overall, a very satisfying book.	2001-08-07
US	49555714	R2MIEF2V7WGUD9	0385318782	405219559	Talk Before Sleep	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Runs the entire gamut of cancer	From the diagnosis, to the denial, to the intimidating medical lingo, to the fear and unknown of dying, &quot;Talk Before Sleep&quot; is one of the most realistic pieces of fiction that I have ever read.<br />Beautiful, glowing, take-no-prisoners Ruth lives to the fullest.  And then the unthinkable -- breast cancer, surgery, chemo and the exhausting fight to survive, a war waged not only by Ruth, but by her friends, Ann, Sarah, L.D., and Helen.  Told through Ann, we see Ruth slowly deteriorate as the cancer spreads and she must face death head-on.  This is a soul searching book that asks questions we would all benefit from considering.  The questions go beyond the theological into the realm of self-examination.  How have I lived?  What would I do differently?  How do I want to die?  Am I living every moment?  Ruth's pain is well expressed, but so is the pain borne by her friends.  We see the agony and denial, the reality and the fear that the four women who love Ruth the most must endure as they try to support and ease Ruth in her final days.<br />This book is not just a depressing look at a painful death.  It is a celebration of a beautiful woman who enjoyed life and squeezed what she could from it to the very end.  It's also about the legacy and the spirit we leave behind.  I confess I cried, something only two other books have been able to cause.  <br />Very well done!	2001-08-03
US	49555714	R1ZZW9KG4VO839	0786863994	439927029	The Weight of All Things	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Beautiful, moving .....	Sandra Benitez has woven a haunting tale of a young boy caught in the war-ravaged reality of El Salvador in 1980.<br />Nicolas Veras had a wonderful mother.  She shielded his body from the gunfire of an attack by guerillas at Archbishop Romero's funeral and she passed on to him her earnest faith in the Virgin Mary.  After her death, Nicholas must find his way alone to his grandfather's rural home in the El Salvadoran mountains.  He finds that the national military has bombed his village, destroying homes, businesses and the church.  From the debris, Nicolas removes the slightly damaged statue of Mary and carries it with him to the farm that has been overtaken by pro-Communist rebels.<br />From here, the story takes flight.  Nicolas and his grandfather are compelled to cooperate with the guerillas.  Nicolas participates in smuggling fresh blood and medical supplies to the guerilla camp.  He is later captured by the army.  Other frightening events occur but young Nicolas feels little fear because, miraculously, the statue of Mary comes alive and speaks advice to Nicolas, giving both instructions and encouragement as he precariously maneuvers between the warring factions of ruthless guerillas and the corrupt and equally ruthless army.<br />The words flow gently in this sadly beautiful novel.  I am usually repulsed by stories involving violence or cruelty towards children; however, this story is so adroitly written with a mixture of harsh truth and tenderness that I couldn't turn away.	2001-07-31
US	49555714	R1PR52JC3V1RIS	0679456791	713847288	Carry Me Across the Water	Books	4	9	10	N	N	A charming story	August Kleinman, immigrant and self-made millionaire, has grown old.  Nearing what he knows to be the end of his life, he now believes that everything he has worked for and achieved -- the money, the business -- are worthless when compared to what he has lost -- his late wife and the time he could have spent with her and their children.<br />The thread that makes this more than just another \\"old-man-looks-back\\" story involves some papers August had removed from a Japanese soldier he had killed during World War II.  Keeping the documents which included a love letter, August had them translated and framed after the war.  Almost 50 years later, in what may be one of the final achievements in his life, he traveled to Japan and returned the letter to the Japanese soldier's son.  The trip, from the memory of the hunting and the killing of the soldier to the son's reading of the letter containing secrets he had not been told, allowed August to make amends, freeing him from the emotional and psychological baggage he had carried for so long. <br />This was a quick read for me (just a few hours), but this isn't a light read.  Canin succeeded in making August a multi-faceted character, both aggravating and endearing.  The decisions made by the characters, including August's mother's decision to flee Nazi Germany and August's struggle with Judaism, help to round out the story.  Very enjoyable.	2001-07-17
US	49555714	R38LJIYFWY8TNX	1582431221	749201259	Winter Journey	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Introspective and wordy	Edith Ashby, energetic former-politician, visits her world-traveled but now semi-reclusive photographer brother, Alfred, at their rural family home in the dead of winter.  Amongst the icy roads, wildlife and old friends and acquaintances, one of whom is Edith's first ex-husband, old memories are stirred up in both Edith and Alfred.  For the most part, their reminiscing is done within themselves.  There's very little dialog or action in this book.  Long stretches of descriptive prose sometimes makes for tedious reading.	2001-06-29
US	49555714	R10XPPELRCPH4N	0312280696	116140556	The Year of Jubilo: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A memorable novel	For former slaves, the year of jubilo meant &quot;freedom.&quot;  &quot;The Year of Jubilo&quot; is about the freedom to shed the past -- its pain, its mistakes, its dreams -- and the freedom to let go and go forward.<br />Gawain Harper returns home to Cumberland, Mississippi in June 1865 after honorably fighting a war he was shamed into joining.  Now a survivor, he is afraid.  Accompanied and encouraged by Capt. Harry Stribling, another returning ex-Confederate, Gawain returns home to face the changes brought about my the war -- he has no money, no job, no prospects, an insane father, his hometown charred and inhabited by the conquering Union soldiers.  He returns to an insurrection planned by less than honorable rebels intent on reviving the war.  Bolstered by the ever-ready assistance of his more than cool friend, Harry, and the alternating ire and devotion of his sweetheart, Morgan, Gawain finds himself in another fight for freedom and honor.<br />Admittedly, I found the plot of renegade rebels amassing to jump-start a war that was lost long before the surrender highly improbable.  However, Howard Bahr is a master of prose.  His writing is eloquent and moving, able to capture the most elusive of moments or feelings and give worthy voice to them.  Bahr has borrowed from William Faulkner, the master of southern literature, the idea of creating a mythical village, in Bahr's case, Cumberland, in Faulkner's, Yoknapatawpha County, and painting a picture of words expressing the struggles of honor and saving face, of defining, fighting for and finding freedom, of forgiveness, redemption, shadows of the past and the reality of the present and the unknown future.  Bahr began his saga of Cumberland, Mississippi in &quot;The Black Flower.&quot;  I highly recommend both that remarkable first novel and &quot;The Year of Jubilo.&quot;	2001-06-27
US	49555714	R2K8FWZ8XOQAEE	0375504729	940951301	The House of Sight and Shadow: A Novel	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Engaging writing and clever plot	Joseph Bendix has been cut loose by his father.  Now penniless and shunned by the Comtesse (from whom he foolishly begged a loan), this would-be physician has one friend left in the world.  His friend offers a letter of introduction to noted and reclusive London physician, Dr. Edmund Calcraft.<br />Eager to prove his theory that illness can be both caused and cured by the mind, Bendix must set aside his own medical theories to assist his new mentor, Dr. Calcraft, with his research.  Calcraft's theories are gruesome, but Bendix becomes committed when he meets and falls in love with the inspiration for Calcraft's research, the beautiful and blind Amelia Calcraft.<br />Cloaked in the atmosphere of early 18th century London, the novel goes beyond medical speculation and explores the corruption of the English legal system and the distinctions between social classes.  The ironic ending is the gem of this cleverly thought out and well written novel.	2001-06-15
US	49555714	RI9UEBCRE623A	0374155062	611027008	Fish, Blood, and Bone	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Ambitious adventure	&quot;Fish, Blood and Bone&quot;  takes off rapidly enough with a murder soon after photographer Claire Fleetwood moves into her unexpected legacy.  She inherits Eden Dwellings from a great-aunt of whom she wasn't aware.  However, the house has a few problems -- a basement full of macabre artifacts and an intimidating tennant with friends who are bad news.  The tennant's daughter, Sally, befriends Claire, but is soon murdered, for reasons unknown, right before Claire's eyes.<br />Claire meets long-lost cousin, Jack Ironstone, who briefly -- very briefly -- explains the family's heritage in botany -- specifically, opium in India.  Offered a chance to accompany a team of scientists, cousin Jack included, on a hunt in India for a mysterious green poppy, which may provide a cure for cancer, Claire accepts.  Thus begins a personal journey into her past.  The girl whose roots were once non-existant, suddenly has her hands full of relatives and skeletons.  <br />The plot is vast and takes off quickly at the start, and everything ties up interestingly at the end.  However, the in-between is sometimes tedious.  There is so much sprawl, you're worn out trying to follow it.  And too, the scientific lingo bogged me down (i.e., teratology, cinchona.)  This novel obviously required a tremendous amount of research on the author's part.  It was good, but I wish I had enjoyed it more.	2001-06-08
US	49555714	R2D32FW2TMIUFJ	0684869489	822218853	The Gardens of Kyoto: A Novel	Books	5	50	54	N	N	Very original, poignant . . .	Rather than reading this book, I may have absorbed it!  &quot;The Gardens of Kyoto&quot; is unique in plot and characterization.  The tone is almost gothic, with a wonderful sense of place, as Walbert explores the cycle of lost love -- damaged men and the women who love them -- caused by war.<br />Serious and studious Ellen falls in love with her cousin Randall, only son born to an influential judge late in his life.  A lonely boy with a passion for vocabulary words, reading encyclopedias and seeing ghosts, Randall reveals his real self to Ellen, trusting her with his secrets.  Raised by a woman he later learns is not his mother in a rambling farmhouse once used by the Underground Railroad to harbor escaped slaves, Randall is sent to Okinawa after WWII and dies under circumstances equally as mysterious as the rest of his life.  He bequeaths Ellen his private journal and a book about the gardens of Kyoto, Japan.  The book figures prominently throughout the story, the book's subject matter a haunting symbol of life.<br />Years later, as a college student, Ellen meets a young soldier, Lt. Henry Rock.  Henry falls for Ellen's troubled and indifferent friend, Daphne, and begins a correspondence.  Intending the letters for Daphne, Ellen is the one who receives them and falls in love with the writer.  After the war, Henry finds Ellen and begins an ill-fated relationship.<br />The book spans the 1940's and 1950's, through World War II and the Korean War.  In the book, the men who survive the wars, Roger, Ellen's brother-in-law, and Henry are &quot;damaged&quot;, so affected by their experience that they are changed forever, unreachable by those who love them.<br />Chapter 11 of book 5 quotes Iago, &quot;'I am not what I am ....'  We are none of us who we are.&quot;  This paragraph flew out at me as soon as I read it.  Everyone hides his private demons from public view.  A wonderful summation of the novel.<br />This is a starkly written novel, and perhaps it is this starkness that provokes the emotions.  As I read this, I truly did hurt for Ellen and her losses.  I felt Randall's isolation, Henry's disillusionment, Daphne's self-destructiveness.  The minor character's, such as Randall's birth mother, Ruby, and Ellen's sisters, Rita and Betty, made brief appearances, but left big impressions.  The writing and even the dust jacket are sepia-toned, but the story is so emotionally colorful that it is hard to walk away from it.	2001-05-31
US	49555714	R20M38VZYAUN2J	1573228540	307791691	Water, Carry Me	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not your average love story	&quot;Water, Carry Me&quot; is a touching but unsettling look at life in the violent blood-soaked and fear-shrouded land of Ireland.  <br />Una Moss is orphaned and reared by a crochety old grandfather with IRA leanings.  Una is able to avoid the political insanity that rocks her country.  She matures into a sensible, intelligent medical student, who, though sitting on a large trust fund, lives humbly and seriously.<br />The bookish and plain Una is swept off her feet by a handsome and charming draughtsman, Aidan Ferrel.  Una is cautious, but Aidan's persistent pursuit dissolves all her doubts and insecurities.  She glories in his attention and quickly begins to plan a future with &quot;her Aidan&quot;, her &quot;best boy.&quot;<br />Of course, there are problems.  Una weathers the ups and downs of her girlfriends and their love lives.  She slowly unfolds the truth surrounding her grandfather, Rawney, and his friends, Mick and Des.  Una even witnesses the shocking execution of Des by the IRA.  She gradually gets to the truth of her parents' deaths.  The details of all of these troubling threads of her life she willingly feeds to Aidan, the Aidan she trusts implicitly.  <br />This is a bittersweet love story.  The author's note at the end of the book indicates that some of the events were actual occurances, manipulated for fictional purposes.  Some of the events are disturbing -- the assassination scene, the police brutality, the love betrayed.  As Americans, I'm doubtful that we can understand the violence of Northern Ireland.  <br />The story began slowly for me, but built rapidly into an unexpected ending.  I rated this book at four stars because of the slow beginning, but would have given it five stars if the beginning had been more interesting.  Stick with this one.  The ending is worth the read.	2001-05-27
US	49555714	R2UDON8ELS4LBJ	0452272726	296956896	The Eye in the Door	Books	5	13	13	N	N	So very powerfu and intense	I really believe that the most difficult task of any writer would be to write a historical novel, particularly one set during war years, that is fresh and void of cliche.  In this regard, Pat Barker is truly amazing.  Both \\"Regneration\\" and \\"The Eye in the Door\\" offer fresh voice and lack sentimentality...\\"Regeneration\\" and \\"The Eye in the Door\\" are intense and searchingly deep.  Barker has written about psychological problems in terms a layman can grasp.  She has written passionately of a war often over-shadowed by successive wars and of the pain and fear more comfortably white-washed by patriotism.<br />These books will engender fresh compassion for those veterans who have bravely fought wars abroad, witnessing and suffering untold horrors and for those who bravely fought at home by questioning the sanity of what politics demanded and were branded cowards for their beliefs.	2001-05-22
US	49555714	R2D5GQCK4VX0O9	0375503374	45103098	Kingdom of Shadows: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Enjoyed this one	The book jacket touts Alan Furst as &quot;the master of the atmospheric spy thriller.&quot;  After reading &quot;Kingdom of Shadows,&quot; I'm not sure I would say Furst is the master, but he is very, very good.  I was most impressed with the individualism of the secondary characters -- men and women caught up my circumstance in Europe as Hitler amassed territory and power.  The impending doom was palpable.  The plot seemed credible, not as far-fetched and James Bondish as many spy thrillers.  Thought and substance are offered here instead of comic book mentality.   So many World War II novels have become cliche, swathed in sentimentality.  &quot;Kingdom of Shadows&quot; may not be Furst's best novel, but the plot, characterization and writing held my attention and provoked my emotions.	2001-05-11
US	49555714	R1HGY72LIN93ED	0871137534	441036137	The Dress Lodger	Books	4	1	1	N	N	If you are depressed, save this book for later!	Cholera epidemic, poverty, prostitution, grave-robbing.... Could have been written by a deeply depressed Charles Dickens.  <br />However, this really was a very good book, difficult to put down. The prose is well done; it is obvious Holman was meticulous in her research of both historical and medical detail.  The uniqueness of the plot will keep you reading in spite of its bleakness.  This is not a light read, and as a caution to readers with sensitive natures, you really shouldn't read this if you aren't emotionally ready for it.  It's humorless, but deep -- far from dull.  Fans of historical settings and character analysis will appreciate this one.	2001-05-03
US	49555714	R36HU46ZX05NAF	0393050351	41346786	Island: The Complete Stories	Books	5	22	22	N	N	One of our greatest living writers!	Alistair MacLeod is a Canadian national treasure.  I hope they appreciate his talent as much as I.  This collection reaches deep in to the psyche of natives of Cape Breton Island, descended from strong Scottish stock, roots deep within the land and the hard work necessary to maintain life and soul on the sometimes unforgiving islands.  <br />The writing is lyrical with wonderful glimpses of Gaelic, which few of us know anything about.  MacLeod's use of Gaelic, his talk of farm living and mankind's link with the sea, and more importantly, mankind's link with the past enable the reader to intimately feel the island culture, separate from the rest of Canada.<br />The tone is mournful, graceful, and paradoxically, both harsh and kind.  Each story is self-contained.  I usually had to stop between stories to allow the last one ot settle within me.  Such power and understanding!	2001-05-01
US	49555714	R2CZ64190YM01T	0684871661	918494905	The Black Madonna: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Get ready to laugh!	&quot;The Black Madonna&quot; is loaded with stereotypes -- the overbearing Italian mama, the rich Jewish family; however, this book is so hysterical that political correctness must, thank God, go by the wayside.  Filled with scenes of life in tenement housing in &quot;the old neighborhood,&quot; Louisa Ermelino has written great atmosphere with colorful, memorable characters.  There is no deep plot, just a delightful splash of life, love, religion,  friendship, and aging.	2001-04-25
US	49555714	R13CLLUAL23YQ8	0449006557	505064373	Half Moon Street (Charlotte & Thomas Pitt Novels)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	More than just a whodunit	Anne Perry takes to her soapbox in this primarily Thomas Pitt mystery.  Usually aided in detection by his wife, Charlotte, Pitt must rely solely on the assistance of Sgt. Tellman when Charlotte travels to Paris with her sister.  Pitt must identify the man found dead in a small boat, his wrists and ankles chained, the body dressed in a ladies' gown and left in a humiliating position.<br />Set adrift in the water, the man is first believed to be a missing French diplomat; however, Delbert Cathcart, a highly successful photographer/artist, is reported missing by his housekeeper who identifies his body.<br />The reason why anyone would want to murder a photographer and dispose of his body in such a way takes a backseat to the always sensitive issue of censorship.  Perry places Charlotte's mother, Caroline, a widow who has remarried beneath her station to an actor, in the role of hostess to her late husband's mother, a condescending Victorian witch.  While attending a controversial play, Caroline is introduced to Samuel Ellison, her late husband's long-lost and heretofore unknown half-brother.  His existence is a surprise and a threat to the elderly Mrs. Ellison, who schemes to be rid of him.<br />The basic issue that connects the controversial play, Mrs. Ellison's secrets and Cathcart's death is censorship.  How far should society go to protect traditional mores and values?<br />Perry does a wonderful job of presenting both sides of the censorship debate in a fair manner.  Readers who are not fans of Perry or mysteries should give this book a chance if for no other reason than the volatile censorship issue which affects us today as much if not more so than it did Victorian England.	2001-04-23
US	49555714	RLMRBIZ65LIRR	0684829975	318753432	The Vision of Emma Blau	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Very well done	As a child, Stefan Blau had a dream -- to leave his native Germany, emigrate to America, live all of the excitement promised by the American Dream, and fulfill the destiny he believed to be his.  In 1894, at the age of thirteen, he began his journey by working as a kitchen hand on a ship sailing from Rotterdam to New York.  From that point on, Stefan would dream dreams and make decisions which would both build and destroy a legacy.<br />In New York, Stefan began as a dishwasher in a French restaurant, but his ambitions carried him forward to learn the art of fine cuisine.  A tragic fire and the loss of a friend sent Stefan further afield.  He left New York for New Hampshire where the land bore a resemblance to Germany.  There, in a boat on Lake Winnipesaukee, he had a vision of a playful young blonde haired girl, a vision which would haunt him for decades, a girl he would search for and ultimately find -- his granddaughter, Emma Blau.<br />For Emma, Stefan would build a successful restaurant in a small town where it wasn't likely to succeed.  For Emma, Stefan would build a massive apartment building far too elegant to be lucrative in such a small New Hampshire village.  The price of this success would poison the souls of Stefan, his wives and his children -- all because of a vision of Emma Blau.<br />&quot;The Vision of Emma Blau&quot; is a novel of success and failure, of choice and fate, of decision and destiny.  Ursula Hegi's rich prose gives full voice to each unique and well defined character.  With great passion, Hegi delves into human nature and the needs and desires that motivate us all.  This book is broad in scope, touching on love, greed, prejudice, war, social class, family roles and psychological motivation.<br />This saga of the Blau family of Winnepesaukee is a difficult book to walk away from even at the end.  I could have read it more quickly, but at times,I had to put it down and savor what I had just covered.  The inter-action of the characters provoked strong feelings within me, almost as if I was living it with them.  I grew and aged with each character.  I felt I wanted to help them understand themselves and each other.	2001-04-20
US	49555714	R1UUM8FOO6E59Z	0743201965	718662431	Bone House	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Couldn't put it down!	I can't think of another book that I've read in less than a day.  &quot;Bone House&quot;, a classicly gothic book, is filled with atmosphere, mystery, and memorable characters.  I simply couldn't put it down!<br />The tale is told in the voice of an unnamed lady's maid whose mother is the local midwife.  They befriend Dora, a prostitute, who settles in their small village after emigrating from a country &quot;across the waters.&quot;  No one knows where she's from or her story, but the men enjoy her services and the women, oddly enough, her friendship.  When Dora is found dead, apparently having slipped on ice covered rocks, our young narrator feels there is more to her death than an accident.  When Dora's grave is robbed of her body, rumors of witchcraft begin to fly, with the narrator's mother, the midwife, as chief suspect.  <br />Dora's half-wit son, Long Boy, cannot grasp that his mother is dead.  Rumors of Dora sightings begin to spook the villagers.  The lord of the local manor, Great House, requests that a portrait of the dead woman be painted.  Dora's death seems to be beyond acceptance by anyone.   <br />Secrets begin to unfold with the search for the body.  The narrator must find out the truth about Dora's death and the theft of her body before her mother is convicted of witchcraft.<br />Throw in the characters of the dying grande dame of Great House, her evil but now deceased husband, their deformed son, and the portrait painter with secrets of his own and you have a smashing good read.  <br />Tobin's prose flows comfortably.  Characterization and dialogue both fit well with the setting.  &quot;Bone House&quot; is Tobin's first novel and I will definitely read her second.	2001-04-18
US	49555714	RW0NE1IWEMTQ6	0849916550	570017569	He Chose The Nails: What God did to Win Your Heart	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Gentle and effective	Max Lucado carefully disects the crucifixion of Jesus Christ, disclosing the significance of thirteen specific elements of the event.  Lucado's message of salvation through the blood of Christ is not new, but his perspective is.  Nothing is overlooked, including the spit of the Roman soldiers who led Christ to his death.<br />Nothing deep about Lucado's theology.  He offers the basics.  However, this is a soothing book, a book of healing, not of condemnation or judgment.  The peace and love of Christ are found paradoxically through the pain and sorrow of the cross.  This isn't a book to leave you burdened with guilt.  Those seeking spiritual answers and growth will find a message of hope and possibility.	2001-04-17
US	49555714	R21GENRUP8I9SM	158234096X	760752117	Five Mile House: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Solid writing of an original plot	&quot;Five Mile House&quot;, a first novel for author Karen Novak, was a very enjoyable read.  She is an excellent writer, providing adequate character motivation in an original and suspenseful tale. <br />Leslie Stone is a police detective who is found temporarily insane after she shoots and kills a suspected child killer while he is in custody.  After a stint in a psychiatric facility, she and her family move to Wellington where her husband, Greg, has undertaken the task of renovating Five Mile House, a historic and derelict home with a mysterious past.  Eleanor, the resident ghost of Five Mile House, helps to narrate the story, providing details of her life a century past. She slowly reveals her life of pain in the house and the reasons she haunts it.  An extra ingredient in the mix is the fact that Leslie is a dead ringer for Eleanor and the citizens of Wellington, a town swarming with real life witches, take much notice of the fact.  <br />Her resemblance to Eleanor and her notoriety as a killer cop make Leslie the subject of local curiosity.  Struggling to regain control of her life, she welcomes the friendship of her husband's employer, Gwen Garrett, a renegade Wiccan.  When Gwen commits suicide, Leslie's suspicions and police instincts are aroused.  In her search for answers surrounding Gwen's death, Leslie's life becomes entangled with Eleanor's life and the mysteries contained within Five Mile House.  <br />The book intrigued me and held my attention to the very end.  If you enjoy gothic suspense, this book will satisfy you.	2001-04-14
US	49555714	R3DO7EWDTI81HM	0375406328	449261090	Lying Awake	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Well worth reading .....	Mark Salzman has outdone himself with this novel of faith and motives. Sister John of the Cross, a Carmelite nun and poet whose substance comes from \\"visions\\", has sought earnestly to serve God. She has dealt admirably with her abandonment by her mother. She has persevered in her faith through spiritual famine. She has spent thirty years in a cloistered convent as God's willing servant. However, her greatest trial comes when her visions are diagnosed as epileptic seizures. Curable by surgery, the ecstasy she experiences during these seizures has been viewed as a blessing by her Carmelite Sisters. Will the Sisters now consider her a fraud? Should she choose surgery to correct her condition and prevent any further visions or should she refuse treatment and become a burden to her Order? Are her motives self-serving? Has God abandoned her, tricked her? <br />I am amazed that Salzman (or any lay person) could write with such fairness and with such genuine respect for mainstream religion. In my most recent readings, traditional Christianity has been treated with disdain. Not so in Lying Awake. I thought Salzman wrote beautifully from the perspective of a woman who has taken vows of poverty and chastity. <br />At one point, Sister John asks herself, \\"Have I been worshiping projections of my own neediness?\\" Everyone who considers himself/herself to be religious or spiritual, no matter the creed, could and should ask themselves this same question.	2001-03-31
US	49555714	R8EKWCP2AIN5A	044023512X	186149727	City of Light	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Intelligent and thoughtful	I read this book in two days and wasn't disappointed with a single word.  Louisa Barrett is the headmistress of a private school for girls in 1901 Buffalo, NY.  She runs with an elite crowd of millionaires who have socially accepted her despite her rather humble origins.  Louisa becomes involved in intrigue surrounding the death of a man involved in the construction of a controversial electrical power plant which would be powered by the waters of the beautiful Niagra Falls.  Her involvement endangers everything she has worked carefully to achieve in both social and professional realms.  Another thread in the plot is Louisa's concern for Grace, the daughter of Louisa's deceased best friend -- concern for Grace's safety and concern that Grace's true identity will be exposed.  The early push for Civil Rights, labor unions and social reform is addressed, as is political corruption on the federal level.<br />Many suspense novels today are mind candy.  City of Light offers much more.  Belfer provides detailed historical information regarding the early development and practicality of electricity and the environmental issues surrounding use of natural resources -- an issue of tremendous relevance still today.  Louisa is an intelligent woman in a time when women were more valued for their weaknesses than their strengths.   <br />Belfer's prose is very comfortable and readable. This book will keep you guessing and thinking.	2001-03-26
US	49555714	R2PFFNOW9PZWJB	0849975026	627934014	The Crippled Lamb	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Jesus accepts us just the way we are	This is a beautiful story of how we are loved and acceptable to God even though we are imperfect creatures.  The gist of the story is the crippled lamb was not allowed &quot;to run with the herd&quot;, but was very welcome in the stable where the Baby Jesus was born.  He was honored above all lambs by being in the presence of such a gift as the Christ Child.  <br />So many children have low self-esteem.  This book offers a boost.  The crippled lamb would have been totally out as a sacrifice in ancient Judea, but he was totally in the circle of Jesus's love.  <br />The illustrations are excellent.  This book is a new classic in Christmas literature.	2000-11-23
US	49555714	R2BMVQ7BJVN93K	0452259614	369132556	Flashman: A Novel	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A less than honorable Indiana Jones	I liked this book regardless of the myriad offenses it contains.  &quot;Flashman&quot; offers a wild ride from beginning to end.  However, it must be read with a sense of humor.  Throw aside political correctness and laugh.<br />Flashman, following expulsion from school for drunkenness, enters the military.  Following a shotgun wedding, he is sent to India where he expects to make the best of it with a concubine and an adequate number of servants to see to his comfort.  His posh assignment crumbles quickly as he is further transfered to the wilds of 19th century Afghanistan.  <br />In Afghanistan, he survives incompetent military superiors, snakes, the elements, ambushes, torture, a vengeful woman, and most amazingly, himself.  He is everything he admits to being -- a drunk, a rogue, a lecher, a bigot, etc.  <br />The book is chock full of every vice and evil imaginable.  Flashman uses and abuses (even rapes) women.  His &quot;heroism&quot; is really misinterpreted cowardice.  He thumbs his nose at God and country and leaves women and children to die.  Nothing admirable here. Every other paragraph contains a new form of violence. But, again, read the book with sensitivity pushed to the side and you will see the irony.  This book can be laugh-out-loud funny if the reader wants to see it that way.  <br />The first of a series, I'll probably read another Flashman book when another change of pace is needed.	2000-11-23
US	49555714	R3FATR311XINFO	0375406530	663303744	Waiting	Books	3	7	18	N	N	If this is all it takes to win a National Book Award . . . .	I love oriental food and art, but the culture is difficult to appreciate.  This book is set mainly in the 1970's Communist China -- hardly romantic.  Ha Jin offers us a love story as unromantic as they come.  <br />The hero, Lin, is a spineless intellectual bore.  The heroine, Manna, is a career-girl shrew who breaks up Lin's marriage to Shuyu, a good, but plain woman rooted in Chinese tradition -- bound feet and all.  Lin is embarrassed by his non-intellectual wife and abandons her and their daughter while he pursues his career as a doctor in the military.  He turns to Manna, an old maid by Chinese standards, whose only previous relationship resulted in her being jilted.  All three characters plod through life for 18 years until Lin is able to divorce Shuyu and marry Manna.  After their marriage, Manna's temper tantrums lead Lin to a revelation -- he doesn't love her.<br />I suppose it is a triumph for Ha Jin to successfully publish such an acclaimed novel fourteen years after emigrating to the U.S.  However acclaimed and successful it might be, this book left me bored and unmoved.  The characters were either emotionless (which is, upon further reflection, a characteristic of Communism) or cold (yeah, Communism).  Even the highly emotional Manna fell flat.<br />It was a quick and easy read, but, I haven't gained a thing from reading it.	2000-11-17
US	49555714	R3C5IAAPFJKIEV	0684868865	192819313	Boone's Lick	Books	3	7	12	N	N	Where's the story?	McMurtry is the master of character development.  His characters are always fresh, unique, likeable in their contrariness.  In this regard, &quot;Boone's Lick&quot; succeeds.  Shay, Seth, Mary Margaret, Rosie, Charlie -- colorful to the bone!<br />It would really be nice though if his characters had a story.  Larry, you left something out here.  Maybe &quot;Lonesome Dove&quot; is too much to live up to.  <br />So much potential, but no plot development.  Bummer.	2000-11-17
US	49555714	R1HIHSIQCAV9WB	0312245440	821860031	Grange House: A Novel	Books	5	13	13	N	N	As classic as Jane Eyre!	&quot;Grange House&quot; is a good, solid gothic novel, worthy of comparison to &quot;Wuthering Heights&quot;, &quot;Jane Eyre&quot;, etc. <br />The author, Sarah Blake, deals with identity of the individual.  What makes us who we really are?  Are we defined by the history we inherit or by the history we choose and create?  Perhaps it is our environment?  The central character, Maisie Thomas, is a young, intelligent and independent thinker somewhat hedged in by Victorian mores.  But is she who she thinks she is?  Is anyone who they appear to be?<br />The famous line by Emily Dickinson -- &quot;Tell all the truth, but tell it slant&quot; popped into my head and stayed as I read this book.  In &quot;Grange House&quot; the truth is &quot;slant&quot;, subjective and unique to each individual.<br />A novel of power, manipulation and guilt, it is classically gothic, offering chilling apparitions, deep forests, a cold, unrelenting ocean, madness and ill-fated love.  Truth and reality are entangled with deceit and illusion.  Past, present and future bleed into each other for a truly wild, entertaining tale.	2000-11-05
US	49555714	R3E8SHQ0XOSCXT	0446604275	218513537	Primary Colors	Books	1	0	6	N	N	Primarily bad . . .	I waited several years before reading this book because I suspected it was a cheesy rip-off of the scandal surrounding the Clinton administration.  I was right.<br />I'm not a political science major or groupie.  I vote and that's about it.  Primary Colors may be a magnificent expose' of behind the scenes politics in America, but that fact does not persuade me that this book was worth my time.  I can't think of one redeeming quality that this book could claim to have.<br />The plot comes straight off the front page of every newspaper in the country.  References to Clinton and his entourage are not really veiled.  The morally deficient President Bill and buddies are bad enough in reality.  Mr. Klein has done no favors by copying the painting using different colors -- primary or not.  I think he has taken a bad state of affairs and capitalized on it.  Sort of like, uh, the &quot;National Flash&quot;.<br />If you read books to get the dirt, it's for you.  If you're like me, and hope to be entertained or enlightened, veto this one.	2000-11-02
US	49555714	RGWKVOVLNHHD2	0877930724	860403378	Out of Solitude: Three Meditations on the Christian Life	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A small, but loud volume	This book spoke deeply to me.  As a parent with young children, I have often felt guilty for needing &quot;my space.&quot;  Nouwen removes my feelings of guilt and selfishness by explaining this need for time alone as being a spiritual need where growth and connection with God are possible. Contains few pages, but a big message.	2000-10-28
US	49555714	R2F6EPJGHY1CE8	0892438916	32741788	Sacred Reading: The Ancient Art of Lectio Divina	Books	4	57	63	N	N	An excellent choice	I have underlined half of the words in this book!  It was very readable, pertinent and usable as a guide to strengthening my connection with God and his Holy Word.  Casey offers a very interesting history of lectio divina; however, practicality is what sparkles in this book.  No longer intimidating, lectio divina will henceforth be practiced in my home.	2000-10-27
US	49555714	R85BSC12Q2AUD	0375406182	963629300	Plainsong	Books	4	12	14	N	Y	Beautiful and deep simplicity	Very starkly written, &quot;Plainsong&quot; was a quick but deep read.  Its simplicity of style gives the reader the opportunity to emotionally participate in the lives of the characters.  Haruf doesn't give anything away cheaply or lavishly, but allows an opening for the reader to crawl into the story.<br />Two main story lines play out and connect in the end.<br />In the first, Tom Guthrie is a man who would be attractive to any sensitive woman -- a schoolteacher who loves his sons and faces single-parenting with determination.  His wife, who is &quot;not a strong woman&quot;, also loves the boys, but she is rendered useless to them by depression.  The children are as stoic as their father, needing love and a woman in their lives, but they put up a tough front about it.<br />In perhaps the most touching part of the book, the boys, Ike and Bobby, befriend an elderly lady on their paper route.  They find in her a woman who will bake a batch of homemade cookies.  She finds in them a brief opportunity to enjoy little boys again (her only son was killed in WWII) before her death.  Such simple gifts to salve over deep needs.<br />In the second story line, Victoria Roubideaux is a pregnant unwed teenager, fatherless herself, with a mother too damaged by life to love or help her daughter.  Left on the streets, Victoria turns to Maggie Jones, one of her schoolteachers.  Maggie hooks Victoria up with two old bachelor brothers who have withdrawn from life to their ranch.  They give Victoria a home and the male influence she lacks and she gives them an interest in something beyond cattle and the female influence that they lack.<br />It's a book of lonely misfits reaching out to each other.  But in these misfits, we find elements of ourselves.  We have compassion for them, wish to reach out to them, and cheer them on.	2000-10-23
US	49555714	RJTMEDA63CF31	0312244266	997866733	Winter Solstice	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A cozy feel good book	A beautiful fairy tale in which a lonely, grief-stricken elderly man and a lonely, grief-stricken elderly woman, both in tight financial circumstances, find themselves living and loving in a rambling, yet cozy manor house in a quaint Scottish village, cloaked in new-fallen snow.  Their loneliness is assuaged by a gorgeous heartbroken young woman and a gorgeous heartbroken young man who fortuitously find each other, and -- sorta -- find potential life and love together.  The gorgeous woman has a charming teenaged niece who has been abandoned at Christmas by the rest of her selfish relatives.  This young waif befriends the elderly man who is mourning his recently deceased teenaged daughter.<br />Fairy tales aside, Pilcher offers a story filled with hope and peace.  So much of fiction today is filled with violence, hatred, ugliness, that it is refreshing to find something to read that doesn't leave you feeling as if you should wash your hands.  Fans of Jan Karon's Mitford series will enjoy this book.	2000-10-19
US	49555714	R1RWY19Z2CZFQ3	0385475721	850910906	The Blind Assassin	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Magnificent writing with creative use of literary techniques	Margaret Atwood has combined cunning, manipulative characters with sacrificial lambs, and the reader gets to choose who's who.  &quot;The Blind Assassin&quot; is a nostalgic novel with crisp descriptions, so well written that the alternation between the sci-fi novel, news clips, and the main storyline moves smoothly.<br />The complexity of the plot will stimulate your imagination and carry you along with it for, maybe not a cheerful read, but a satisfying one.  <br />This is my first Atwood novel, and now, I'm hooked!	2000-10-05
US	49555714	R3OFJTNRQZ6HPP	0312265077	244454532	The Black Flower: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Place Yourself on the Battlefield	The Black Flower is the most startlingly real Civil War novel that I've read.  The writing is vivid, haunting and eloquent.  You can feel the  confusion and disillusionment of battle, smell the stench of unwashed  bodies in clothing pilfered from fallen soldiers, see the lice crawling on  the men.  <br />I've been to Carnton House, a beautifully maintained relic,  but Howard Bahr's writing mentally and emotionally placed me in the battle.   Thank you, Mr. Bahr.	2000-08-16
