US	49553939	R2IU10G6F79L20	0974575038	148349185	Goodbye Gutenberg: How a Bronx Teacher Defied 500 Years of Tradition and Launched an Astonishing Renaissance (Designer Writers)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Coming Full Circle	Revolutions being quietly, sometimes in a single mind.  Passion in a single mind can be transmitted to others, with emotions synching to speed the flow of ideas, as Adam Smith, among many others, described it (\\"The Theory of Moral Sentiments\\").  This writer does that, with an advantage over many other would-be revolutionaries:  the text captures the imagination, beyond that communicated by its literal meaning.  The illuminated text illuminates the passionate plea for a print culture that reaches our youth. <br />     The digital divide is not only between technology haves and have-nots, but between thise who learned to think in black-and-white and the multimedia generation.  Younger people do not respond to levels of stimuli that were adequate for Boomers.  Color and style - designer writing, in the author's words - engage the senses more fully, as a lonely GIs might be by a perfumed letter from someone back home.  Multiple levels of sensory engagement transmit a writer's passion more surely than one-size fits-all block text. <br />     Drawing on an astonishingly wide expanse of learning, Ms. Kirschenbaum shares with the reader a panoramic history of integrated color writing, from ancient Egyptian hieroglyphics to Chinese poet-calligraphers to medaeval manuscripts.  (Sharing Chaucer with her class, with the ephiphany following the inevitible question about why our books are no longer in color, led to the quest that bears fruition in the present book.)  Like Plato's cave-prisoners, my attempt to describe the vivid - in thought and execution - prose before my eyes is lacking in the full dimension of the higher reality of what color-drenched pages of writing look and feel like, written, as it is, in black-and-white, block text. <br />     With 96% of Americans not buying books today, and the average reader of literature rising annually, some radical change - revolution, not evolution - must happen if we hope to transmit our civilization to the coming generation,through the white noise of what Richard Weaver called \\"The Great Stereopticon\\" in his \\"Ideas Have Consequences,\\" that our popular culture immerses our senses in, non-stop.  While no singly idea or movement is a cure-all for the on-going descent into a sort of hellenistic dark age, lacking faith and civilizational awareness, designer writing is a very promising start.  Its apostle has given us its first epistle, along with the inspiration to flesh out the canon as vividly in the digital age as the canvas of our minds allows us to conceive it. <br />-Lloyd A. Conway   <br />	2005-06-16
US	49553939	R1273WWCM1PRIK	1594674574	677463996	Hear Him! the One Hundred Twenty-Five Commands of Jesus	Books	5	7	8	N	N	a Field Manual for the Army of Salvation	Mr. Wittstock has performed a valuable service for minds like mine, that tend to by-the-numbers thinking:  He has sifted through the four Gospels to catalog the still-active commands of Jesus Christ.  ('Still-active,' as opposed to ones for their time and place - \\"Son, behold your Mother...\\")  As a military veteran, this book reminded me of nothing so much as an Army field manual - a direct, straightforward, 'how-to' type of instruction guide.  Using a 'plain English\\" reading of the Bible, taking things at their most obvious meaning, as opposed to allegorical interpretation, the author uses a number of English translations, in addition to a textual analysis of the original Greek, to render the most precise possible reproduction of what Jesus actually said.  Grammar is examined to stress the declaratory nature of each of the commands, including the relative strength of the 'do' verbs embeded in each.  The results are an unambiguous set of specific things that Jesus' followers are to do or not do.   <br />     When I mentioned this book to a friend, her response was along the lines of, \\"Love the Lord with all your heart, mind, and strength, and your neighbor as yourself.\\"  That is correct, but to use Army terminology, that is a 'general order,' applicable as  policy at all times, while the specifgic instructions listed here are 'special orders' and tasks to subordinate elements (the church; us individually) for specific circumstances.  They flesh out the general order with an architecture of specifics that is most helpful - and sobering, as a reminder of how our actions measure up. <br />     While the first impression that a would-be reader might get is that this is rather Catholic-sounding, emphasizing works as evidence of faith (no disrespect intended to Catholicism), the author prominently quotes from Luther and the 20th Century Lutheran Dietrich Bonhoffer, among others, to buttress his contention, in the first part of the book, where he explains his mission,that grace does not mean license or faith without works, but rather that Christ had something more in mind when He said, \\"Keep My commandments.\\"  The tack taken - that American Christianity, especially Protestantism of the more evangelical strain, has slid into the Slough of Cheap Grace, is not new - Gary North has touched on it in his work - and using Army imagery one more time, is like a combat soldier chewing out a bunch of REMFs (Rear Echelon 'soldiers') on their sloppy disregard of the fieldcraft that will get them home - sans bodybag.  Likewise, we, too, need, in the midst of material plenty, with real persecution still over the horizon, that we can't get by with worldlieness, as the Church of Laodecia tried before us. <br />     In closing, this manual is a short, accessible dose of cold water for those who may realize how easily they can slide away from cozignance of what Christian living means, day-to-day.  A reading of the 125 specific, still-applicable commands of the Christian's Supreme Commander (the military imagery is employerd by the author - novel, but highly effective) should be sobering for all - as it was for me. <br />-Lloyd A. Conway	2005-02-23
US	49553939	R151G62ZIZAWDQ	B00005X21W	192650644	The unheavenly city; the nature and future of our urban crisis	Books	5	38	42	N	N	"Trading Places" as social science research	Did you see the movie with Eddie Murphy and Dan Akroyd where two elderly brothers make a \\"Pygmalion\\"-like bet, namely, that they can ruin Mr. Akroyd's stock-broker character and substitute for him Mr. Murphy's street hustler character, teaching the latter everything he needs to take the former's place?  This book is like that movie, only as the fruit of years of scholarly research.<br /><br />  The central thesis of the author is that the rich really are different:  They think in terms of preserving their family \\"line\\" down through several generations.  Doing this requires not mortgaging the capital that underpins their position.  While they may outwardly live a carefree, womanizing, drunken existence, it is merely an \\"experience,\\" that they wear like an article of clothing, to be put off when it no longer suits their pleasure.<br /><br />  The middle class is the recepticle of traditional morality because it has to be.  The margin of error which the rich enjoy is absent, so sobriety, frugality, and hard work must be instilled to ensure that they at least hold their place; failure to do so results in downward mobility.<br /><br />  The poor live for the moment.  That is why they are poor.  They cannot leave, or choose not to leave, a life devoted to sexual conquest, excitement, violence, and the like, and those seductions inhibit the capital (physical and intellectual) formation required to reach escape velocity for those wanting out of the ghetto.  Shades of Jeff Foxworthy's \\"redneck\\" jokes come to mind in reading Banfield:  The latter writes that a poor man's toys are always better than all but the richest man's, because the latter won't devote so much capital stock to unproductive use, and the former are not disciplined enough to do without instant gratification.  So, if you have to have a plasma TV for your mobile home, even if the electric bill is unpaid, then you might be a...member of the underclass.  It's stereotypical to talk of the \\"poor\\" having luxury items that they cannot afford, but the flip side is that the wealthy often do not, at least initially.  Michael Miliken drove a station wagon when he was Wall Street's junk bond king, for example, while fully a third of the customers of the Lincoln-Mercury dealer where I used to work could not afford the Town Cars and Mark VIII's they bought, which explained the poor maintenance that made them repeat visitors to the Service Dept.<br /><br />  The conclusions of the book accords with the words of the Gospel:  \\"The poor ye will always have with ye,\\" as perhaps 5% of the adult population will always be unable to care for itself, either due to physical or mental infirmity, while a larger portion choose poverty voluntarily, by refusing to think about tomorrow while enjoying today.  It's a story as old as Aesop's \\"ant and the grasshopper\\" and as current as the latest newspaper article about another former lotto millionaire who's back on welfare.<br /><br />-Lloyd A. Conwayems that they cannot afford, but the flip side is that the wealthy often do not, at least initially.  Michael Miliken drove a station wagon when he was Wall Street's junk bond king, for example, while fully a third of the customers of the Lincoln-Mercury dealer where I used to work could not afford the Town Cars and Mark VIII's they bought, which explained the poor maintenance that made them repeat visitors to the Service Dept. <br />     The conclusions of the book accords with the words of the Gospel:  \\"The poor ye will always have with ye,\\" as perhaps 5% of the adult population will always be unable to care for itself, either due to physical or mental infirmity, while a larger portion choose poverty voluntarily, by refusing to think about tomorrow while enjoying today.  It's a story as old as Aesop's \\"ant and the grasshopper\\" and as current as the latest newspaper article about another former lotto millionaire who's back on welfare. <br />-Lloyd A. Conway	2005-01-16
US	49553939	R1QZBOLGNLFWJE	0810115905	705074922	The First Circle (European Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Low-Tech Matrix	This novel is set in what passes for the best of the worst:  Research duty for ex-Gulag inmates who know what misery really is.  Working on idiotic deadlines set in response to Stalin's quirks, the prisoner-scientists live in a world of denial and unreality akin to Dilbert on crack.  A worse fate befalls their jailer-managers, who are \\"free,\\" agents of the government, and must  justify repeatedly failing to meet the ridiculous deadlines that their bosses set out of fear of offending The Boss, which typically ends in either immediate execution or in joining the ranks of those in chains.<br /><br />  Some things that stood out as I read this book were the universality of the bureaucratic mindset:  avoidance of responsibility, inertia as a policy, stonewalling, and turfmanship, all in place of actual achievement or progress in any meaningful way.  Another thing is the prevalence of a false-accuser culture, where anonymus denouncements can destroy the innocent quickly, without explanation or even a trace.  (Given the state of our own society today, and the risk/reward calculus that favors the accuser, this trait appeared even more ominous to me as I read the book.)  The denial that gripped some of the inmates, either wholly (Rubin) or partially (Nehrzin, in the beginning, and others) about why they were in prison reminded me of \\"The Matrix,\\" in that they were dreamwalking through life in a mist of Marxist/Communist mumbo-jumbo, rationalizing their fates as random chance, a mistake, the failing of the system even, but almost never as an understanding of their suffering being inherent in the System itself.  As Nehrzin awakes to this, to a degree (and the author may be semi-autobiographical in his sketch of this character, like himself a decorated artillery officer imprisoned over virtually nothing), he opens his eyes to the existence of the matrix of lies, false theory supporting false gods, etc., that has fully ensnared Russia and all within her power, hostage not only to Stalin's perversity, creeping madness, and hurbis, but to a system that is itself a reflection of all of these characteristics, too. The xenophobic search for American spies undermining Motherland security under every bush, the rewriting of history to support the current lies, and the occasional mind that breaks free by rejecting those lies, as Nehrzin did, starting in his youth, reminds one of Ayn Rand's \\"We  the Living.\\"<br /><br />  Echoing \\"1984,\\" the older prisoners remember things as they were before the official history filled men's minds.  Things had been different than they were being told, better, materially and spiritually.  The prisoners themselves were frequently veterans - those who had done the most for the State reaping an unlooked-for reward, like Belisarius blinded by a jealous Justinian, left to beg in the streets.  The theme of war and survival is a thread that binds the veterans, either prisoner or \\"free,\\" to each other. A bond of another kind exists between the inmates and their women - the latter mostly loyal, giving up their youth, and the possibility of starting a family, waiting for a release that may never come, sustained by the rare visit that bureaucratic stonewalling and trickery tries to prevent, their love provides a flicker of hope in the ashes of their ruined lives, where even being suspected of marriage to a political criminal was enough to make earning a living an impossibility, since the State was sole employer.<br /><br />  Something else that seemed relevant to America today was the culture war that Yaralov, an ex-prisoner now running a research lab as a Colonel, remembers while pondering his posible return to zek status, from his youth.  He gave up the love of a Christian girl because while the Orthodox Church was legal in the 1920s, it was not politically correct.  As an ambitious young man with a future, Yaralov was torn between his woman and his career.  As the Church was chased out of the public square, it suffered fromremembered abuses of thise in its' hierarchy, although those failures to meet the standard ignore the origin of the standard in question - the Church itself.  The sellout of a certain medaeval Metropolitan to the Tartars, used as an example by Yaralov in telling his betrothed why he will not side with the Church becomes a metaphor for bureaucratic sellout - applied by her to Yaralov when he chooses the System over what they both know he knows as the truth.<br /><br />  Solzehenetsyn's account of life within the highest reaches of the Soviet Prison-Industrial Complex is both a fine story in its' own right and a warning to us that we can travel the same path, if we have already not begun to do so.  It is also highly literate, filled with allusions to literary and historical figures from the full scope of the Western Canon, in which Russia  shares, and contains very little in the way of anger - a remarkable achievement for one who emerged from the bowels of the  Gulag.  While anger is largely absent, satire abounds, especially comments by those on the outside about the \\"social origin\\" of others - in a supposedly classless society.<br /><br />  This long book is well worth the time invested in it, as it is a work of rare and tragic beauty.<br /><br />-Lloyd A. Conway	2005-01-02
US	49553939	R1OM96QB1ZYN9U	141842577X	52296989	BLIND BASEBALL: A Father's War	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Gulag lite	This book is nearly in Solzhenetsyn's league - and that's the major league for works in this genere.  The author novelizes his own experiences with the surreal \\"family\\" court system in my native Michigan - of which I am also a surviving father - and in doing so paints a picture vivid in its absurdity, banality, and vileness that an uninformed reader might associate more readily with the Soviet Union - hence the reason that the Gulag comes so quickly to mind. <br />     Like our former adversary, we have psychiatric prisons, where the inconvienent and uncooperative are sent, drugged, and left incommunicado, when it suits the organs of state power to do so.  This Dostoyeveski of American fatherhood writes what rings true  - as I read, it was \\"deja vu, all over again\\" as my thoughts flashed back to my own experiences at the hands of those my taxes supposedly pay to protect the innocent.   <br />     The story is of a man who married badly, to what he calls a \\"human hand grenade,\\" had children, and for their sakes, stayed, like a latter-day Hosea, with his wife of whoredoms to the bitter end, hostage to his loyalty to his children, and to a passion for a woman who utterly scorned and failed him.  Like many a man who has beaten the odds in escaping the ghetto, the author bore wounds not visible to himself, but gapingly obvious to the \\"idiot savant\\" whose sole talent in life was an ability to play her intellectual superiors like a harp.   <br />    More than a page-turning story, this novelization of divorce purgatory, in which the protagonist's most exquisite pain is not for his own suffering, but for that of his children, this book is also an old-school conservative/libertarian indictment of F.D.R.'s Welfare State, in tones that remind this reader of Atlas Shrugged, as Mr. Green digresses to examine the cause of the troubles visited upon his family, which are only the symptoms of the Moocher State brought to its logical perfection.  Welfare subsidizes the woman whowants to destroy her family for short-term gain, funds her sloth, and the producers are made to subsidize it all, minus the state's cut of the loot.  (Mr. Green owns up to his share of the mistakes, including the cardinal one of marrying Sal, the anti-wife, but that in no way diminishes her guilt or that of her enablers.)  <br />     This book now rests on the same shelf as my copies of Stockdale, Sharansky, Denton, and the other confessors who have stood their ground against the last century's great killer of body and spirit - the Leviathan State.  It belongs there, as the feminist-led assault on the traditional family is of one and the same character as those of the other corecive utopias that have blighted humanity within living memory.  Could it happen here?  It is already, and woe to the unfortunates who fall into its clutches!  As Paul Craig Roberts once asked, in writing about another kind of judicial misconduct, will it produce a latter-day Count of Monte Cristo to fight it?  It's a wonder that it has not already bred many worse than him among its' many victims. <br />-Lloyd A. Conway	2004-12-30
US	49553939	R20J14UP2BO57S	0974575003	763710473	The Designer Revolution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Revolution or Restoration?	The author, a passionate practitioner of the teaching arts in an inner-city classroom, has, amidst the ruins of print-based culture, rediscovered how to connect with the the fullest possible range of a would-be reader's senses.  This is all the more timely, given what the rising generation internalizes as the normal way of information-processing.  A. Bartlett Giamatti spotted the trend in the 1980s, and noted in \\"Take Time for Paradise,\\" his ode to baseball, that the young were even them mentally imaging things as if on a screen - that their experiences with computers and video games dramatically altered their basic preception of knowledge transmission.  (My son made the same observation - he learns more from the Discovery and History Channels than from text.)<BR>     Beyond that, the written word is not even what it once was:  the plague of Newspeak-style bland language has all but extinguished the supple verve of good English prose in everyday usage.  Business, newspapers, and textbooks, among other venues, are in the thrall of dumbed-down, disposable writing of a most forgettable kind.  (Example:  Compare a King James Bible with the New International Version, and try to find one memorable phrase in the latter that is not a leftover from the former.)<BR>     Ms. Kirschenbaum passionately wants to rescue our culture from irrelevance in the eyes of her students.  Despite what she reports as indifference from academics more interested in pedigree than in the power of ideas, she gathered the panoramic sweep of how non-Gutenbergian cultures transmitted information - in vivid color, shaped in every way imaginable, as opposed to block text, with assistance from everything that two-dimensional art can offer to stimulate the brain (she discusses the science of that, too) to be receptive to the meaning conveyed by the author.<BR>     Ms. Kirchenbaum re-discovered the importance of color.  In doing so, she stands in the center of a long tradition, sidetracked by the limitations of Gutenberg's printing press, but not entirely forgotten.  The author is probably correct in thinking that black-on-white block text held sway for as long as it did because of the near-monopoly that it had in conveying printed information.  The advent of multi-media and desktop publishing means that A.)  Old-style text is not the only game in town, and B.)  One must ask how anyone used to high levels of stimulation via television, the Internet, etc., can otherwise be induced to use unexercised imagination to make reading attractive.<BR>     The book is sprinkled with quotes from classic writers - Horace, Mencius, Hugh of St. Victor, etc., and experts in the field of graphic design, to bolster the author's case.  That case rests on foundations as old as Plato:  the preception of reality gained through reading may be as imperfect as the shadows on the wall in his famous anology of the cave; using art and color to enliven words can only help bring that image into sharper focus, and thus the phantasms of memory when the reader recalls it at a later date.  In a post-literate world, such writing serves such as Gothic architecture once did for Christianity - a sermon in stone. To use a secular example, Shakespeare meant for his plays to be seen, not read; adding something to black-on-white block text brings the reader nearer to what the playwright wanted to convey, in terms of total, felt meaning.<BR>     The power of Ms. Kirchenbaum's message stayed with me as I read deeper into her book:  While watching, \\"My Big, Fat, Greek Wedding,\\" I connected the Orthodox use of icons (\\"Written,\\" not painted - every stroke had specific meaning to the believer), incense, chanting, and candles - all elements absent from American Prtoestant Christianity, to the Eastern way of engaging all the senses in a religous experience.<BR>     In closing, while Ms. Kirschenbaum does not cite Thomas More, he wrote in support of her ideas, when he said, as quoted by Sister Miriam Joseph in her classic, \\"The Trivium\\" - \\"Images are necessary books for the uneducated and good books for the learned, too.  For all words be but images representing the things that the writer or speaker conceives in his mind,... and so conceived in the mind, is but an image representing the very thing itself that a man thinks of.\\"<BR>     What Ms. Kirchenbaum is attempting is not a revelolution, but a restoration, reconnecting us with the timeless knowledge of the ages.  For that she deserves our approbation and active support.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2004-03-02
US	49553939	R3OA4MJMPK3ZQU	0814404766	441092774	The 2000 Percent Solution: Free Your Organization from "Stalled" Thinking to Achieve Exponential Success	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Evolution vs. Radical Mutation	The nautre of organizational behavior (really individual behavior within the constraints imposed by organizational culture) is to seek incrementalist changes at the margins.  Rarely do the well-entrenched want to leave those trenches to risk what they have in the fluidity of the uncretain.  This is natural, since safety is something innately sought by most organisms most of the time.  Short-term safety can be a good predictor of impending decline and death, as the old adage says:  &quot;Whom the Gods Would Destroy, They First Give 40 Years of Success.&quot;<BR>     The authors propose that aiming for incremental, marginalist change is a &quot;stall,&quot; a way of refusing to face or accept the need for real change.  (Sometimes, the need for change can be misread or mismeasured, with New Coke being an example they give.)  The authors offer a number of vingettes designed to illustrate &quot;stallbuster&quot; tactics that will impel the desired-for change.  These vingettes are bite-sized case studies of how real-world organizations approached (or failed to approach) problems, and the results of their actions.  These are compared, in terms of implicit values, with the formal values each company had adopted.  The actioning of these values provides insight into where disconnects between policy and performance occur, with McDonalds' response to the infamous hot-coffee lawsuit and Odwalla's in dealing with food-poisoning problems being one example.  Each company's colture at least partly pre-determines the range of responses that their leaders can imagine, with a corresponding range of predictable results.<BR>     In the tradition of Dr. Kurt Lewin (&quot;Field Theory in the Social Sciences&quot;) the authors propose that breaking through stall-tactics requires more than a circumstantial, piecemeal approach:  unfreezing organizational behavior (&quot;stallbusters&quot;) and shifting focus to enable lock-in (for however short- or long-term fluid circumstances dictate)of more adaptive actions.  This is a key to breaking out of the prepare-to-win-the-last war mentality, as well as the incrementalist mindset that curses mature firms in the cash-cow stage of growth, before radical change to survive drastic environmental shifts carries a Phyrric price for survival.<BR>     Measurement is an area of continuing focus:  What we measure becomes how we measure success.  Rejecting or supplanting traditional measurement concepts may be necessary so as to allow truly pertinent data to be collected.  (One anecdote deals with a company priding itself on a 1% error rate for each process - without anyone recognizing that errors are cumulative, resulting in 80% of its' customers experiencing some form of product failure.)  Time is one of the things that Mitchell, Coles and Metz believe has to be measured - especially in the more-nebulous disciplines, like financial analysis, where productivity has been more difficult to quantify.  If outputs are hard to measure, them time spent on various tasks can show how much of a workday was productive, even if unquantifiable.  <BR>     This work is not a by-the-numbers, how-to workbook with checklists.  It should not be read that way.  It is rather more Aesop-like, in that it uses stories to illuminate a few key points, which are them discussed in terms of broader application.  Read as intended, this book can help to exercise the imagination of leaders who want to leave corporate Darwinism behind for radical mutation in a world loosed from its' fixed reference points by technological breakthroughs, geopolitical flux, demographic shifts, and culture-shock:  In other words, the search for a 2,000 percent solution. <BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2003-10-30
US	49553939	R1UL0RIGQ7UTKK	1579220266	412600628	The Irresistible Growth Enterprise: Breakthrough Gains from Unstoppable Change	Books	5	10	11	N	N	The Gods of Lankhmar meet Napoleon Hill	Fritz Leiber's \\"Lankhmar\\" stories tell of a fail-safe system available to the citizens of Lankmar in case they were in grave danger of defeat:  They could summon the Gods of Lankhmar, who would lay waste their enemies - and them, too.  (Naturally, one does not summon them too often.)<BR>    Many leaders, thinking like managers, wait until drastic action is mandatory to save their organization - risking possible destruction in the process.  Mitchell and Coles outline a series of steps, somewhat reminicent of Napoleon Hill's \\"Think and Grow Rich\\" system, for recognizing danger (read: opportunity), planning for riding the crest of said opportunity, and for overcoming the organizational inertia that most large systems possess to make it happen.<BR>     Part of the change process is accepting risk:  The \\"Gods of Lankhmar Effect\\" might do to describe the process they envision, as the change device carries the potential to expose the organization to collateral damage, or \\"creative destruction,\\" as Shumpeter termed it.  Knowledge of the risks involved contributes to the \\"stalls\\" many cohorts will use to block change.  Much of the book is devoted to strategizing ways to overcome the more common ones.<BR>     Some of the stalls (\\"But that's not the way I thought it would be!\\") remind one of the reactions of individuals to personal loss - the grieving process is often described as a five-step one, including denial as an early reaction.  Facing change of major magnitude, when the action called on for survival and the chance to prosper, may involve the preceived loss of what one holds dear.  Like Themistocles, the innovative leader may have to sell his people on letting the Persians burn Athens, by offering a compelling vision of the marbled splendor awaiting the victors, as opposed to hoping that a conventional response to overwhelming force will somehow do the trick - magical thinking, if you will.<BR>     Tactics described by the authors start out with measurement concepts -an essential part of a rational decision-making process.  Collecting relevant data, and knowing what that is, constitutes the first line of defense in directing organizational change.  After all, what good is a thermometer when what is needed is a Geiger counter?<BR>    The essential quality of the book is this:  Accept the need for overcoming a majority in your organization who will not see or accept change, and who may not accept the best alternative for meeting it, along with the consequent resourcing demands. Be prepared to identify and ally with those who come to share your vision. Anticipate dealing with stalling tactics, or be just another Cassandra - right on your predictions, but ignored by those you warn.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2003-09-14
US	49553939	R1OIJZY5M01NTB	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Schumpeter meets Hegel	The whirlwind of creative destruction is harnessed to the concept of continuous revolution in this handbook of how to think strategically in an arena that is both instantaneous and worldwide.  <BR>     Looking to business models instead of technology as the key strategic advantage for the near future, Mitchell and Coles distilled a decade-long research project, involving interviews and with CEOs of consistently successful companies that had ridden the crest of uncertainty by reinventing how they operated, in creating this book.  What they found is that, of those businesses they selected to study, the ones who maintained their edge had changed their business model, many more than once.  While their research begins in 1989, some of the companies in question had pioneered the concept, decades earlier.  (Nucor Steel had been, \\"The Nuclear Corporation of America,\\" a conglomerate making, among other things, radiac meters, before F. Kenneth Iverson reformulated their business model to that of a high-tech minimill.)<BR>     The emphasis on strategy, in seeing new opportunities in seemingly random or unconnected events, and the decidedly long view of history implicit in the underlying philosophy is what recommends the work above all else.  (The authors also clearly have a broad background in classical economics, and quoteAdam Smith, Alfred Marshall and others to illustrate key points.) Much of the strategic planning/scenerio building advice reminds this writer of concepts that he first ecountered in military life, and the anology of busines to war is not a new one.  (Think of Sun Tzu, lately a business guru, after millenia as a fount of military doctrine.)<BR>     Like generals preparing to fight the last war, many business leaders stick with a winning formula even as it reaches the point of diminishing returns, and as unacknowledged competitors become mortal dangers to their security.  One example used by the authors is of Red Hat Linux, which depends at least partially onproduct innovations offered by the open-source community.  While Microsoft may be market-dominant and debt-free, their business model, which, the authors note, defeated Netscape in the browser wars by offering Internet Explorer as a no-cost, bundled product with Windows, it may not be able to keep them as cost leader in the operating system market against competition relying on what Eric Raymond described as the gift culture of the open-source community (\\"The Cathedral and the Bazaar\\"). Whether Microsoft will (assuming that Red Had and company succeed in making Linux a critical threat to Windows) abandon what has been enormously successful for them (their business model) for the untried is the choice faced by everyone on top when challenged by asymmetric competition. The failure to see, plan for, and meet such challenges is more often the fate of yesterday's leaders than is the successful business model innovation that Mitchell and Coles describe.  (See also, \\"The Innovator's Dilemma\\" for case studies of this problem.)<BR>     Involving as many minds as possible in worst-case-scenerio planning is another bit of wisdom, validated by the testimony of CEOs whom the authors found to be constantly ahead of the competition.  This leveraging of existing resources (they're already on the payroll, if they are employees) is a low- to no-cost way to offset competitor advantages in fixed capital resources that the reader may not be able to match.<BR>     While the book is generally shorn of technical minutia, making for quick readability, the discussion on pricing strategies is fairly detailed, and provides insight into how to use pricing to test business model concepts before fully committing to them.  As with the other chapters, the section on pricing is well-illustrated with case studies in what worked - and what did not. <BR>     The book is well worth an evening's read, especially before events make agonizing reappraisals of how one operates a necessity.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2003-05-11
US	49553939	R30M0LODARRMFK	0195146166	53052700	The Next Christendom: The Coming of Global Christianity	Books	4	13	17	N	N	Spengeler was right!	Jenkins' book projects a variant of the \\"population explosion\\" argument with a positive twist:  Christians are the population that is exploding, all over the Third World.  As the nominal Christians of the West and Russia fail to have enough live births to maintain, yet alone increase present population levels, the poor of the Earth are finding the Gospel of Jesus Christ, and they take to it, Jenkins argues, because their lives - with hard labor, hunger, poverty, and death as much a reality under opressive regeimes - is much like the New Testament world of the early Church.<BR>     And what kind of Church will it be?  Jenkins thinks that your run of the mill, secularized, Christmas-and-Easter churchgoing Episcopalean or cafeteria Catholic will be shocked to find their coreligionists, even within their denominations, believing in and practicing a kind of primative, liturgical, Catholicism-(pre-Vatican II)cum-pentecostalism.  This is the world that Spengeler foresaw:  he called the first, Catholic millenium of Church history the Age of Peter; the Reformation to his time the Age of Paul; the next millenium, the Age of John, of ecstatic, primitive, mystic faith, a resurgence of Eastern, \\"Magian\\" civilization following the Suicide of the West (as he titled his book).<BR>     Conflict with Islam may bring on a \\"clash of civilizations,\\" as Huntington and others have predicted, but the protagonist will be Southern Christendom, coalescing around the twin heartlands of Africa and Latin America, and not the West, as has been imagined. This makes intuitive sense, because be they saints, martyrs or suicide bombers, some will dare to die for their faith, but who will die for consumerism, secularism, or the morgasbord of causes that drive what passes for intellectual and cultural thought in our society?  Even the Communists (really the greatest of heretics, according to Igor Scharevich) had a transending vision that could motivate a Felix Derzinsky to choose death in its' support.<BR>     Where the book loses me is in the optimistic population projections, carried out, it would seem, on some kind of least-squares baseline, with steady rates of growth to the mid-century.  As Buchannan did (\\"Death of the West\\"), Jenkins assumes that the present trend is the future trend.  At some point, diminishing returns will kick in, if for no other reason that because, to name an example, Yemen is short of water today:  to become the 10th most populous nation on Earth by 2050, with over 90 million souls, they will need water, which they do not have and are unlikely to find.  AIDS, famine, and war will further erode the projected out-year gains, as will continuing migration to the west, for as long as that lasts.  War, in the age of WMD, is another limiting factor.  Not that I do not wish for Jenkins' prediction to come true:  I would rather share the planet with fellow Christians of any race that with the alternative.<BR>    A final word: It is heartening to se the Churches of the East get their due.  Ethiopia, predicted to be a leading Christian nation of the next half-century, has been Christian officially since 341, 10 generations before Clovis.  With the late Halie Selessie claiming descent from Solomon and the Queen of Sheba and their continuous Christan tradition dating back to the fourth century, they, not France, have the best claim to being called \\"the Eldest Daughter of the Church\\"(along with Armenia, Christian since ca. 304).<BR>     A Christmas bit of good news, well worth the read, and a more positive vision of the future than Rapsail's \\"Camp of the Saints\\" or Buchannan give us.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-12-19
US	49553939	R19GVF0XYX76BG	0596001088	675258335	The Cathedral & the Bazaar: Musings on Linux and Open Source by an Accidental Revolutionary	Books	5	28	34	N	N	The Anthropology of Hackerdom	Eric Raymond is the Margaret Mead of the Open Source movement.  His analysis of the gift culture as a model for explaining why hackers write software without recieving direct financial compensation is original, and as far as I know, unique.  The economic implications are vast:  if programmers write programs as a hobby, and do not stand in need of income for doing so (assume that they have day jobs), with rewards being in the form of status and reputation, then why buy the equivalent of what they're giving away?<BR>     Linux is the focus of this branch of the hacker-programming movement, which can also be seen at work in Apache and Java.  The nature of the movement - everyone agreeing to play by Open Source rules, a leader (Linus Torvalds) who sets goals but does not exert formal authority, and a market (the Bazaar) where knowledge is dispersed throughout, reminds one of the Austrian Economists, who believed that a system operating as a spontaneous order would show greater productivity than a command economy, because of the exponentially greater amount of brain power in use.  Raymond makes much the same point, when he argues that, \\"With enough eyes, all bugs are shallow.\\"<BR>     For Microsoft, this is a deadly threat.  Proprietary software and operating systems are expensive, to develop and to buy.  If Open Source products are seen as being of like kind and quality, them software becomes a commodity, and branded, proprietary products, and the businesses that sell them, are facing inevitible decline in their core market.<BR>     If Raymond's thesis is correct (I believe, as a layman, that it is), then by 2010, Windows may have gone the way of the British Empire - living in memore (digital or otherwise) only.<BR>-LLoyd A. Conway	2002-08-15
US	49553939	RL0SKK27VDXDM	0374511993	754969879	Cancer Ward: A Novel (FSG Classics)	Books	5	45	45	N	N	"A Real Live Place"	Those were the words that Dorothy used to describe Oz after waking up in the bosom of her family. The same intense feeling came over me while reading this book, a task that spanned several years, as I often put it aside for other things, always returning, drawn by the power of the author's prose in opening his world to us. The realness of Solzhenitsyn's worlds makes him perhaps the most accessible Russian novelist. As he described the village where Kostoglotov, the protagonist, lived, or in recounting how Ruasov, the villian/fellow victim ruined lives while justifying his actions, a vivid portrait fills the reader's imagination. <BR> The human struggle to find hope and beauty in the most tragic of settings is what this novel evokes so well. Soviet medicine, cancer, a Zek fresh from the Gulag, and in a twilight turned dawn, Solzhenitsyn finds for his semi-autobiographical protagonist happiness, not only in winning victories against a malignant tumor, but in thoughts of perhaps one more summer to live, with nights sleeping under the stars, of three beech trees that stand like ancient guardians of an otherwise empty steppe horizon, a dog that shared his life there, and of a young nurse and spinster doctor, both of whom he hoped at times to love.<BR> The picture one often got (accurately) of the Soviet Union was of greyness, gloom, uniform drabnes, and of a totalitarian police state. This book serves to remind the reader that, despite such circumstances, even desparately sick human being might still seek, and find, happiness in his own, private world. Along with that, Solzhenitsyn never lets us forget the utter corruption of the Soviet state, often in the person of Ruasov, an ailing bureaucrat who has managed to turn personnel management into an exquisite art form, as an instrument of psychological torture, slowly administered.<BR> Of all Solzehenitsyn's works, this is my favorite. The people one encounters are vividly real, and the ending isn't what one would think (orhope), but is fitting, nonetheless. <BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-08-15
US	49553939	R3HH5LW18TVGLM	0066620694	889399178	The Innovator's Dilemma: The Revolutionary National Bestseller That Changed The Way We Do Business	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Seeming Irrationality and Corporate Cassandras	Christensen is a Karl Marx of change: \\"Innovators of the world, unite!\\" could easily be the subtitle of a very readable book.<BR> The thesis is that change comes as a surprise to those who have enjoyed success. The old business saying, \\"whom the gods would destroy, they first give 40 years of success,\\" applies here. High profits, and entrenched customer and supplier communities can thwart change, until it is too late.<BR> Using the disk drive industry as his first case study (because, he writes, like fruit flies, the average company life cycle is so short), Christensen examines how, when a new technology came along, the company housing the innovators failed to capitalize, with only the rarest exceptions. The paradigm discovered by Christensen is that of the value network. Companies have scarce resources for which there are alternate uses: Common sense dictates that they be directed to satisfying the demands of current, paying customers, and not be diverted to risky projects for markets that either do not yet exist, or which are low-profit. Research and development continue in their established courses and product cycles, and at some point, the product may have excess value - performance than the average user needs, but for which they must pay, if they but the product.<BR> The result of this eminently rational decision-making process is that when a new product establishes itself, it is usually the work of a start-up company, which has little to lose and is willing to accept lower profits than mainline companies will, or can. (Cost structure in bigger firms may make low-end products unprofitable.) At some point, the rising product becomes good enough to substitute for the established one. At this point, crisis looms. The expertise, experience, and momentum are with the upstarts. The replacement process is likened to a tornado, wherein only a few use the new product at first, but as its' capabilities cross the threshold of minimum utility for the mass market, a suddenwhirlwind of change happens, and seemingly overnight, the mainlines have lost control of the market. The mainline companies may choose to cede the bottom end of the market to their rivals, and focus on the upscale, highly profitable segments. This Christensen relates in telling of the rise of Nucor Steel and other minimills as challengers to US Steel and other giants of industry.<BR> The Nucors started out only working the bottom of the steel market: \\"Rebar\\" steel, low-tech and low-profit. As they advanced on the learning curve, they moved upmarket, into Big Sttel's remaining baliwicks. At each juncture, better business models and lower cost structure allowed innovative technology to help the upstarts capture market share. At each stage, Big Steel retreated, and by concentrating on only the highest-end, lucrative parts of the market, and masked their decline (even to themselves)with record profits. Only when the minimills came knocking on the door for their last market did they wake up and start playing serious catch-up.<BR> The lesson in all of this, retold in a page-turner style suitable for light summer reading, is that radical change is seldom accomplished by those on top - it comes from the outside. Vested interests, within and without the organization, will fight for their budgets, their turf, and for their status. Only top management buy-in, the continual dedication of resources, and, optimally, setting up a seperate entity to innovate the radical (as opposed to incremental) change process holds real hope for success. (GM setting up Saturn as a wholly-owned but otherwise independent company is an example.)<BR> One of the interesting points that the author makes is how, at some point, products may become commodities, and brand names lose influence, relative to price, in driving sales. Looking ahead, if this process begins to happen, one can expect that substitution with cheaper alternatives is not far away. (Linux' rise vis a vis Windows may be the beginning of this process in the PC Operating System market.)<BR> This model has application far outside the business world. One can think of many examples, such as generals preparing to fight the last war, while innovators, like Erwin Rommel or Billy Mitchell, develop the weapons and tactics that will win the next one. One can see it in politics, where major parties have ignored culture and immigration as issues, only to find Pat Buchannan, the late Pim Fortuyn, and others making it their signature issues. If Christensen's model applies, them the rise to power of third parties will follow, unless established ones move quickly to co-opt their issues, at the risk of offending their current constituencies. Gary North (linkable through lwerockwell.com) wrote a column that described the rise of Methodism and Baptist churches in early America. His explanation parallels what Christensen wrote regarding the disk drive, excavator, and steel industries: lower fixed costs (lay preachers vs. seminiary-trained ministers), an unexploited market (frontier settlements vs. back East), and a product that could be substituted for its extablished competitor (mainline churches), led to sudden growth and market capture. Other examples will occur to the reader, which is part of the electricity of this book - it stimulates the mind to apply its' teachings elsewhere.  \\"The Innovator's Dilemma\\" is well worth your time.<<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-07-04
US	49553939	R1AY3SBS38AZ3S	0060140178	477222625	The socialist phenomenon	Books	5	52	53	N	N	Nothing New Under The Sun	King Solomon would've agreed with the author, a Soviet-era Russian mathematician, in his contention that the impulse to seek utopia is deeply rooted in the human psyche. Examining pre-Christian communal societies, both actual ones (Pythagorians) and fictional (Plato's \\"Republic\\"), he found commonalities with many of the major heresies of Christianity. Of the latter, Schafrevich divided those of ancient and medaeval origin from those occurring from the time of the Reformation onward. The earlier hereises, such as the Cathars, Paulicians, and Bogomils)generally had in common ascetism gnostic traits, and looked to the next world for their Paradise, regardless of their living arrangements here on Earth. <BR> The author plausibly argues for a continuous strand of existence for the core heretical doctrines, by making a case for the earliest groups having passed their beliefs on to the latter ones. (The Bogomil-Albagensian connection is well established, in this regard.) Along with Plato, these groups advocated the communality of women as the major departure from their asceticism. (The family unit arguably is the basis of private property; groups having all in common, including wives and children, have no basis for the accumulation of inhereted wealth.)<BR> Later heresies tended to favor the bringing about of the Kingdom of God on Earth, now, by putting their beliefs into action. Noting the linkage between some modern Christian denominations and earlier medaeval heresies (groups sometimes mis-classified as \\"Protestant\\"), the author shows how the drive for Earthly Paradise gradually dispensed with God, until the movements became wholly socialist, as in Saint-Simonism. <BR> <BR>     The author describes the workings of actual socialist states throughout history.  The prime examples given are Pharonic Egypt and the Inca.  Of the latter, Schafrevich notes how eerily it resembled Thomas More's \\"Utopia\\" in several aspects, even though More wrote a generation before Pizarro.  Ofthe Inca, the author says that they had the best examplye of an isolated, socialist state, and he notes that the social and intellectual life of the Inca resembled an anthill, not a Workers Paradise.  Unlike some leading economists (von Mises), Schafrevich believes that socialism is workable, but that the result, if carried through to the fullest practical application, resembles the Incan anthill, where only one will matters, and human nature is so deformed that even a century later, Jesuits noted that the people posessed no independant will to action.  (In this regard, he more nearly resembles Nobel Laureate Frederich von Hayek, who believed that socialism could practically exist, but that the result would be a grossly inefficient totalitarianism.)<BR>     Schafrevich concludes that Socialism/Communism is perhaps the greatest heresy, an attempt to have Man become Creator of His own Paradise on Earth. The hollowing out of the faith of many Protestant and other non-orthodox faiths leaves behing people who believe in doing works to bring about the Great Society, but they do so without reference to God. These people became the Dzerhezinskis of the Communist movement.<BR> As a history of heretical theology, this book is outstanding. As a guide to the animating force that impels people to advance Socialism, in the face of overwhelming evidence that it is unworkable and contradictory, it is peerless.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-04-20
US	49553939	R12D7RNYIP2IA5	0968395201	358479094	The Truth About Immigration : Exposing the Economic and Humanitarian Myths	Books	4	7	9	N	N	If you can bear to hear the truths you've spoken...	Twisted by knaves to make a trap for fools...as Kipling reminds us in,\\"If,\\" is the fate of the prophet not honored in his own country.  Let us hope that Mr. Taylor fares better.<BR>     Bringing up the subject of immigration exposed one to the full panoplay of leftis character assasination, including the use of their equivalent of the atomic bomb: \\"racist.\\"  This is true, even if the individual is,\\"left of center but right of Marx,\\" as Mr. Taylor is.  Canada's situation resembles the United States' in that, after a turn of the last century influx of eastern and southern Europeans, they had a de facto moratorium until the mid 1960s, when the floodgates were opened.  Unlike previous immigrants, the newest settlers are non-white, and Europeans are not welcome.  Canada differs from the US in that her immigrants come mostly from east and south Asia.  The results are much the same, however:  major cities where English is rarely heard on the streets, large, self-contained communities, where \\"assimilation\\" is not on the horizon, and displacement, not diversity, is the order of the day.<BR>     The author blames both the Left and Right for this situation.  He sees liberals welcoming immigrants because they dislike Western culture, and because they regard the native working class as being bought off and therefore too corrupt to become the proletariat vanguard of a true social revolution.  \\"Conservatives\\" shoulder the blame because businesses focus on profits over all else, including national integrity.  Capital is worldwide in scope, knowing no loyalty to people or place.  (I put \\"conservative\\" in quotes because business tends to be amoral, and businessmen conservative only in narrow, economic terms.)<BR>     The result of this situation is a Canada where Vancouver is an Asian city, where the dominant group discriminates against whites in employment, and from which whites flee in droves.  The pressure on the middle class increases, as they have to compete against newcomers who have group solidarity and who network to support business formation, etc.  <BR>     The author directs his displeasure not at the enterprise and pluck of the newcomers, but at a system that forces them to come West to live well, and that ignores the reality that natives, with mortgages, families, and other ties to their homes, are not as mobile as capital, and cannot easily migrate to follow the jobs.  In a system predicated upon the prepetuation of inequity in resource distribution, the immigrants are often victimized, in that their hope of a good life compels them to leave home for the other side of the world.  The losers in this game are white males, as the protected classes are minorities and women.  Who's left?  White men.  Diversity does not include them, or Western culture, neither of which are \\"celebrated\\" by the diversity crowd.  It seems as if the greviances of all others get aired; if some group besides men (all colors) had a 94% share of workplace fatalities, as the author points out, the hue and cry would reach the heavens.  The real divide is along class lines.  The power elite opens up society to outsiders not by giving out of their share, but by displacing other outsiders, in this case, white males.  (Think of Harvard for a second.  As more minorities are admitted, do the Kennedys and Bushes make way?  Even if the pie expends in absolute size, the share given to those on the outs declines, to placate others who want a place at the table.)<BR>     While I do not share fully the author's economic basis of analysis, the case he makes is well-thought, internally logical, and is based on fact and two decades' observations as a civil servant \\"in the trenches' of the immigration situation.  As such, he desreves a hearing.<BR>     Even though he is a self-described member of the Left, Mr. Taylor sounds like a conservative in defending Western culture, as the social norm underpinning a free society, in the Richard Weaver tradition.  Ditto his fears that globalization of economics leads to globalization of political power, meaning world government.  As he asks, where do you go, if world government devolves into tyranny?  There is no \\"New World\\" left to start over in.   But the author sees the tidal wave ebbing; the elites are discovering that they don't need to import workers with the advent of global trade and telecommunications.  Once the word gets around, they'll act in their self-interest.  Let's hope it's in our interest, too.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-02-18
US	49553939	R37GJATQHL8ZC6	1893554449	265628111	Uncivil Wars: The Controversy  Over Reparations for Slavery	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Pulling No Punches	The reperations debate has been around since the 1960s (as some other reviews neglect to mention). Horowitz has a rather bombastic style, but that is reflective of his personality (as it is of mine, so I sympathize). Do not let that distract from the fact that he hits a key point here - that free speech is a non-starter on the campus, and in our life in gereral, when the issue is one that the Far Left has chosen to monopolize. Those who dare to challenge the assumptions of the Leftists are subject to bombardment with Marxist-inspired personal attacks, which are designed to marginilize (&quot;he's a kook&quot;), demonize (&quot;He's a Nazi, racist, homophobe,&quot;etc.) and neutralize (&quot;Don't buy the book&quot;)the mesenger. As those of us from the Old School know, the first one to start calling names has lost the debate. (By this, I do not mean &quot;Left&quot; or &quot;Right,&quot; but the use of personal epithets such as, &quot;racist.&quot;) Horowitz makes points that are not new, as in the monopolization of the traditional megaphones of society (academia, the press, etc.), which Buchannan, for example, describes in his, &quot;The Death of the West.&quot; <BR> The value of this work lies in the author's exploration of the reperations debate, and how it is limited by the forced acceptance of certain underlying assumptions, such as white guilt for slavery and discrimination, the uniquily racist nature of society, and the slave-labor basis of our present prosperity. While not every reperations supporter uses all three, and some other arugments may be given, the above are descriptive of the basis for the claim that monies are owed to the decendants of American slaves. <BR> In response, it can be countered that slavery was universal, worldwide, and endemic from the dawn of history, that it existed here before the existence of the US Government, and that the US Government eventually ended it, in the persons of white, male, Christians with guns, known as the US Army, who faced shot and shell to end it. <BR>It also bears noting that the slaves were enslaved by their fellow Africans, or by Arab slave traders, who also did a land-office business in whites. (&quot;Slave&quot; comes from &quot;Slav,&quot; and uncounted numbers of them were Janizaries, eunuchs, etc., in the Ottoman Empire.) To use a notable example, Cinque, of &quot;Amistad&quot; fame, became a slave trader after he was freed. <BR> To make the above arguments exposes the maker to intemperate verbal assault (as it has this writer). There seems to be an underlying theme, which Horowitz took up in &quot;Hating Whitey&quot; before continuing it here, that while people are, quoting Susan Sontag, &quot;a cancer on the human race.&quot; Thus, whites bear blood guilt for the sins of all involved in slavery, which must be viewed as a white-on-black conspiracy, unique in history. No expurgation of this guilt attended on US victory in the Civil War, regardless of the blood shed in battle.<BR> Economically, the reperations crowd argues that slave labor built this country, in spite of the fact that most of America was free soil, that slaves did a minority of the work in slave states (as most farmers were freeholders), and that Sherman and Co. destroyed most of the wealth of the South, America's least-prosperous section.<BR> Having considered their arguments, it is easy to refute them. Horowitz concentrates on their motivations, and writes as an insider, having been a leader of the Left in his youth. This book is good reading for those who wish to devote more honest effort to understanding the issue than is needed to peruse the back cover while loitering in a bookstore.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2002-01-14
US	49553939	R227Y7MITMZLBP	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	4	310	384	N	N	Diagnosis: Murder	Pat Buchannan read &quot;Camp of the Saints&quot; and mentions it in this book.  That explains the eerie resemblence between that astringent work of fiction and Buchannan's thesis:  The West is under attack, from without by immigration, and from within by its' own elites.<BR>     The birthrate numbers that Buchannan uses are unnerving, and are well-documented, and in line with other works (&quot;Grey Dawn&quot;) that examine population trends.  Western (including Russian and Japanese) women are not having enough babies to maintain population levels.  The result;  Florida is the model of the society of the future.  For Italy, it is the present.  Geriatric societies are not working or fighting societies, and the day will come when unassimilated immigrant workers will tire of caring for and supporting with their taxes old white people.  If not, the grandchildren of the Boomer generation will foot a tremendous bill for their care.  &quot;Pay As You Go&quot; Social Security financing virtually guarantees intergenerational conflict, a subject Mr. Buchannan mentions only in passing.  Prophetically, he notes that illegal aliens in the US roughly equal in number the Americans aborted since Roe V. Wade.  As we choose voluntary extinction, others will take our place at the table.<BR>     That said, I have to question the longer-term population projections given.  They are of the nature of, &quot;if present trends continue for 50 or 100 years...&quot;  One thing that we can be sure of is that present trends will not continue.  If they did, Islam, in retreat abroad and attacked by secular modernists like Attaturk within, would still be on the defensive, for example.  Thus, straight-line popluation projections detract from the argument; to imaging Iran or Egypt with nearly 100 million people assumes that water, warfare, and germs do not limit the population explosion, and that prosperity, if it comes, will not lower birthrates there as it does here.<BR>     The second front chronicled by Mr. Buchannan is the internal assault upon the foundations of Western culture.  It is not capitalism that is their primary target, but Christianity, and the culture begotten of it over two millenia that the leftists have steadily undermined.  The consequence of this, he argues, is that the vital energy of our peoples are sapped, and they lose the will to live, including the desire to reproduce, since the meaning of life escapes them.  As the Christian Culture of Life withers, it is supplanted by the Culture of Death, manifesting itself in casual sex, abortion, euthenasia, and a general disrespect for the sanctity of life.  (Human life, that is.  Snail darters are still sacred.)  <BR>     Much of the book is a litany of current events recalled to support the author's position.  They are so fresh that the book could have scarcly been finished before Thanksgiving.  September 11th is here, and an analysis of the anti-Western response.  So is the Bush Administration's confirmation battle over John Ashcroft, the NAACP's infamous James Byrd ads, the Boy Scout controversy, et cterea.  The book is a little long on examples to support the main argument, which is quite simple: a movement, not a conspiracy per se, has been systematically working to take over the megaphones of Western, especially American, society:  TV, movies, radio, newspapers, schools, pulpits, colleges, government.  Having gained control of what Richard Weaver called &quot;The Great Stereopticon&quot; (&quot;Ideas Have Consequences&quot;), they have relentlessly told us that the US is wholly evil, racist, genocidal, and that we bear the burden of that guilt.  This low-grade brain-washing has succeeded, as most good ad campaigns do, in convincing our children that they should hate the country that we grew up loving, and that it isn't worth fighting for.  Thus, as the forces of the '60s advance, Christians and their allies are under siege in the &quot;Camp of the Saints,&quot; as each redout falls toa fresh onslaught. <BR>     Mr. Buchannan closes with some suggestions for combatting the spread of the new religion, but they do not amount to the galvanizing call to action that I hoped for.  Perhaps the pessemism that prevades the book reflects his own doubt as to a successful outcome.  If Hillaire Belloc is right, then the struggle for revolutionising society takes about three generations to decide, as yesterday's counterculture becomes today's cutting edge, tommorrow's current wisdom, and what it replaces becomes, in turn, the counterculture.  As there are no lost causes, so there are no won causes, and Mr. Buchannan's book, which is conciously Catholic, lacks, in the end, the assurance that God will win in the end, with or without the West.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2001-12-24
US	49553939	R5WCUFUYLBJIV	0195066340	249792400	The Decline of the West (Oxford Paperbacks)	Books	5	36	39	N	N	Hypnotic Prose (Written on the Wall?)	Oswald Spengler was a schoolteacher of immense intellect.  The book is filled with observations and insights into virtually every known civilization in the sweep of human history.  The study and reflection behind the work no doubt contributed to the magisterial tone, confident in the self-evident truths that it conveys.<BR>     Spengler codifies the progress and decline of civilizations in search of archtypes and characteristic forms of expression.  His classification of civilizational forms, i.e., Magian, Faustian, etc., then is used to show how cultures within each type, at differing stages of development, react to and upon each other.<BR>     His discussion of Magian civilization is perhaps the most compelling.  He traces its origin to Zoroaster and the apoclyptic Hebrew prophets of the early First Millenium, B.C.  The concepts common to all forms of Magian life are discussed:  the architectural expression of worship as a &quot;world-cave,&quot; seen in the use of the dome and the contrast of light and shadow, illustrate the vivifying force of the battle between Dark and Light, and the coming firey end of the world.  This discussion is all the more compelling with the rise of militant Islam, dormant and in retreat before secular modernism when Spengler wrote.<BR>     Prophetic statements are rarer than prophetic insights, in that Spengler makes few outright predictions, instead giving trend analysis.  The reader may keep turning pages, looking in vain for the elusive prediction of our future, the feeling of which mounts with each vingette illustrating the Law of Civilization and Decay (to borrow Charles Adams' title).  Of the few that he finds, one is that, as the first millenium of the Christian era belonged to Peterine cultire (&quot;Faustian&quot; civilization rising) and the second to Pauline/Protestant civilization, the next millenium would bring a flourishing of Johnnine faith, in the Eastern mode.<BR>     While Adams and Adam Ferguson said much of this before, this is the better work.  If Spengler is right, capital replaces faith, and Caesar follows capital.  If the Age of Capital is closing, will the dominant type of the Western future be Caesar?<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2001-12-20
US	49553939	RINOXKHWVSZ03	1574200658	769358023	Preface to Public Administration: A Search for Themes and Direction	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A textbook that reads like literature	The fine writing style of the author is one of the best recommendations to be made for this book, especially since the subject is one that rarely excites even those who major in or practice it. The coverage is generalist, and the author does a fine job of tracing the origins of American concepts of governing from their Classical, Whig, and Tudor roots through the making of the Constitution and down to the present time. Like the thesis of &quot;Albion's Seed,&quot; one can trace the ideas advocated by some schools of thought today back to their origin in traditions brought here by the first American settlers. Among these are the Tudoresque, late medaeval notion of common law and limited government and the classic revival of republican seperation of powers. (Russel Kirk's &quot;The Roots of American Order&quot; takes the thesis further, and would make good supplementary reading.) One of the best parts of the volume is a section near the end in which the four principal streams of thought on public administration are compared side-by-side and tied in to the traditions that have been part of our political life from the beginning. One objection here: in describing the advocates of what the author memorably terms the &quot;Stateless State&quot; crowd, he errs in stating that the Chicago School/Public Choice movement is decended from the Austrian School, which he characterizes as a 19th century school of thought. Stillman is wrong on both counts: Milton Freidman, James Buchannan, George Stigler, et al, of Chicago fame are students of Frank Knight, and come from a different tradition than that which flourished in the 20th century through the efforts of Austrians like Hayek and von Moses, and which is alive and well in our own time. The two schools' adherents are sometimes allies, but their traditions are seperate.<BR>The analysis of how our early institutions came to have form beyond the minimal guidance outlined in the Constitution is memorable for the phrase, &quot;chinkedin,&quot; ad hoc as it were, and for giving name to a distinctly American tradition of doing administration on the fly, filling the details as needed. This runs counter to Woodrow Wilson's admiration for Prussian efficiency and organization, which became a later, dominant theme in public affairs.<BR>One other flaw mars an otherwise fine volume: early on, the author states that the Roman Republic did not become the Empire until the mid-second century, A.D. The proper date would by 27, B.C., but hopefully, this typo will be corrected in the next edition of what ought to be a standard work in the field of public administration.<BR>-Lloyd A. Conway	2001-09-01
US	49553939	R1ED27OVR5DE8M	046508138X	549201674	Basic Economics:  A Citizen's Guide to the Economy	Books	5	18	23	N	N	Combatting Gresham's Law	If Gresham was right and bad money drives out good, and as a collary one applies the principle to economics tomes, then one can explain the omnipresent character of most &quot;popular&quot; economic writing today.  This being the case, Thomas Sowell dosen't stand a chance.  If dispassionate logic and reason, applied to the subject in accordance with unblushingly classical principles of the discipline can turn the tide, then this book is a winner.  Professor Sowell takes basic economic concepts, like prices, fleshes them uot with non-technical, math-free, graph-free, but still accurate explanations, and then applies them to real-world situations.  For example, Sowell looks at the concept of &quot;prices&quot; in a market economy, and then applies it to demolish the magical thinking that underlies price controls.  He demonstrates that there is never a shortage, if prices are unfrozen.  In other words, if there is an appearant shortfall in the supply of energy, the price will rise, rationing the available resources so that the most urgent needs, as determined by consumers' willingmess and ability to pay, to restore equilibrium in the market.  (Too bad that they haven't tried this in California.)  Sowell goes on to show how economics is the study of how scarce resources are allocated between alternative uses.  The extra money spent to maintain the same level of gasoline consumption, in the face of rising prices, means that the individual making that choice must forgo spending the additional money that such a choice costs for any other use.  The gasoline is also subject to the same competetive pull: crude oil can become many things besides gasoline.   Of all the books that I have read on the subject of economics, this one ranks with Hazlitt's &quot;Economics In One Lesson&quot; as the best introductory text.  It is free of partisanship, promotes no platform, and seeks (sucessfully) to show how the effect sought after by a policy may not be the one that results from it.This book is truly a public service - and we'd all be better served if it was read widely. -Lloyd A. Conway	2001-07-16
US	49553939	R5T3Q23KHAV0I	0895263440	404916259	The Way the World Works (Gateway Contemporary)	Books	5	46	50	N	N	Supply-Side Messiah	This may be the most revolutionary work on Political Economy since Kark Marx, less in terms of economic theory than in terms of political import.  In ways that often parallel James Buchannan's &quot;Public Choice&quot; school of thought, Wanniski looks at people as an electorate, both economically and politically, and he lays out a theory which shows how the decisions of the electorate are translated into policy.  It was by reading this book that I was first exposed to the diea that even dictatorships could be a kind of democracy, if &quot;rule by the people&quot; can be taken to mean that anyone, regardless of birth, may aspire to the top job without revolution or a coup d'etat.  By this standard, for example, the USSR was democratic, if one examines the up-from-the-bottom origins of men like Khruschev.<br />The economics of the thesis are called &quot;supply-side,&quot; and this is the first modern, book-length exposition of the doctrine, but in reality the tenents are really a restatement of Classical economics.  Adam Smith would find little to argue with here.  As an admirer of the Austrian School, I find Wanniski to be philosophically a very close fit, although not a libertarian in the Rothbardian sense; he would be closer in spirit to Wilhelm Rhopke (&quot;A Humane Economy&quot;). The idea that tax policy alters economic behavior is not new, but after 40 years of Keynesean domination (admittedly, Keynes would be opposed to much of what is offered in his name, and he considered himself a Classical economist) the ideas emerge with a freshness that was more striking in 1978 than in the post-Reagan/Kemp era.<br />One of the most pleasant things aboutthe book is the lack of hostility in its' pages, and the absence of partisanship.  One gets the impression that Mr. Wanniski would be just as pleased if the liberal wing of the Democratic Party had triumphed on a supply-side platform, so long as they faithfully implemented the policy.   <br />-Lloyd A. Conway	2001-06-29
US	49553939	R2LH7L31TSHKOS	0139227822	717479791	Human Resource Management	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Creative multimedia tie-ins, but getting dated?	I suspect that a new edition will be out shortly.  Some of the Internet links sprinkled throughout this book are broken, and the text frequently refers to conditions as they were, &quot;as of mid-1997.&quot;  Hopefully, the authors will employ a proofreader/style editor, as the sytnax is awkward in a few places.  That said, this is a good introductory book.  The creative integration of Internet links and video case studies (&quot;On Location at Showtime,&quot; and ABC News reports on business trends and issues) add to the value of the text.  An Internet site allows instructors to develop an on-line syllabus for students to view and download.  Key terms are set on the margins in blue print, repeating their definitions from the text.  Summaries at the end of each chapter do the same, and include questions designed to verify reader knowledge of major concepts.  The book dwells at length on diversity issues, which is appropriate, given the plethora of Exceutive Orders, Supreme Court decisions, and legislation mandating various EEO/affirmative action practices in the HR field.  The chapters on recruitment, selection, and training are the strongest in the book, and cover the topics in a fair amount of depth. The chapter on labor unions reveals a pro-union bias; otherwise, the book is ideology-free.  Overall, this is a more than adequate treatment of the subject, and is quite serviceable.	2001-02-22
US	49553939	R3IPSDOVIZNJM4	0226876802	449021583	Ideas Have Consequences	Books	5	72	77	N	N	The Great Stereopticon	The Great Stereopticon is not the latest in digital CD player technology, but the latter is a medium of the former.  Prof. Weaver's book, written in the late 1940s, with a Muse of fire, is still current, because the crisis in our civilization continues, and of that he wrote.      The 'Great Stereopticon' is the term that Richard Weaver uses to describe the prevading noise generated by our culture, which nearly drowns out the still, small voice of truth, goodness, and virtue.  The main point of the book is that ideas, in this case bad ones, can start in motion a train of events, which as they emerge from the world of thought, produce nasty and often unintended consequences.      The author traces the decline of the core vision of Western civilization to the progressive divorce of Man and Nature that began with Bacon, and which has continued, as Scientism replaced Science.  The momentum of the centuries has given this set of ideas great power and unthought acceptance that is prevasive in our society.  The result is the rising tide of barbarism that is engulfing us.  Technological progress has done great good, but has not made us better.           Without wanting to summarize the author's arguments further, this is one of the seminal works in the Conservative canon, in the Southern Agrarian tradition.  The book is not long, and is arranged in stand-alone chapters, which advance Prof. Weaver's argument and form a coherent whole. It is also a quick read, and is done in a superb, flowing style that does the treasurehouse of ideas contained in it justice.	2001-02-05
US	49553939	R13QVX6RTFL7L8	0324072740	632356777	Organization Development and Change	Books	3	16	18	N	N	Too general, lots of filler, still better than average	This textbook is dated, as all multi-editions (intentionally?) are.  Most of the case studies are from the 1990s; there is little sense of history here.  The case studies tend to be short and general in nature, as well.      The material on OD presented in the book is good and informative, even if the prose style is rather dry.  What the authors spend 676 pages(including glossary)to say could have been said as well in perhaps half the space.  Compared to other OD texts that the writer has read, this one comes off quite well, the forgoing nonwithstanding.        In terms of constructive criticism, this writer would like to see greater depth in the coverage of each topic, and a greater sense both of history and of the future.  The book reads as if the authors expect the trends of the present to continue without change into the forseeable future.  Specifically, globalization is seen as a long-term factor, when it may well give way to regional trade blocks, as the world becomes multipolar, and as ethnic and religous issues join national self-interest in setting the agendas of nations not on the winning side of globalism.  (However, one cannot expect OD textbook authors to be geostrategic thinkers, either.) Connectivity with other disciplines would also help the text; for example, a digression examining &quot;King Lear&quot; or &quot;Julius Caesar&quot; from an OD perspective might inform and entertain the reader.      While this book could be improved, it is worth reading on it's own merits, and compares well to other texts in the field of OD. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-11-06
US	49553939	R268NAXI1BTCZ2	0375754199	372950867	The Naval War of 1812 (Modern Library War)	Books	5	42	44	N	N	Three Cheers for America!	In a time when patriotism is passe, reading this book can redden the stuff in any American's veins.  Our Navy's often-victorious battles against a superb and numerically superior foe ranks with the Athenian victory at Marathon in the annals of honor.  Roosevelt was a natural storyteller and a first-rate scholar.  Like JFK two generations later (&quot;Why England Slept&quot;) this work was the product of a young twentysomething Harvard grad (JFK was actually a senior) that commanded serious attention nationally, and presaged a later rise to the summit of public life.  Roosevelt's research is exhaustive, but not tedious, thanks to a vigorous prose style that carries the reader through a mass of detail without losing sail.  The digression on which nationalities make the best seafarers would no doubt be considered un-PC today, but, as a general characterization of national characteristics, they arguably hold true.  The author's final chapter, on the Battle of New Orleans, forshadows future policy, in that his criticism of the unreliability of the militia were embodied in the reforms that fully Federalized the National Guard, as the Dick Act of 1903.  (Doubtless, his Spanish-American War experiences contributed to his desire to supplant the 1793 Militia Act, as well.)        This book rests on my shelf, next to Mahan's &quot;The Influence of Sea Power Upon History,&quot; and O'Brien's Aubrey-Maturin novels - as is fitting for an historical work written in the spirit of high adventure and studded with minute detail.   -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-10-09
US	49553939	R2BX3PKNJRZ2J5	0674990382	143511942	Barlaam and Ioasaph (Loeb Classical Library)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	The Great Classic of Eastern Christanity	Each of the major Christian traditions may be said to have a classic that  expresses it's spirit in words.  For Catholicism, Dante's &quot;Divine  Comedy&quot; can arguably be said to be the greatest literary work by a  believer.  Reformed Protestantism might claim &quot;Paradise Lost&quot; in  the same way.  For Independant Protestentism, Bunyan's &quot;Pilgrim's  Progress&quot; serves as a common touchstone and expression of the faith.   All are well-known to educated Westerners.  From the East, nothing older  than Dostoyevesky enjoys a wide reading.  St. John Damascene's  &quot;Baralam and Iosaph&quot; takes the place within Eastern tradition  that the other classics do in their own.      Early Church tradition held  that St. Thomas converted India. That conversion did not hold.  St. John of  Damascus, writing in the 6th century, told the story of India's second  conversion.  The story may be a legend based on the life of the Bhudda, who  lived a millenium before.  Certainly there are resemblences: St. John  writes of a prince, brought up in a palace, who never sees anything but  beauty and ease, until he leaves as a young adult.  On the first day of his  journey, he meets with a cripple, a sick man, and an old man, and is thrown  into a spiritual crisis.  This is consistent with Bhuddist traditions  regarding their founder.  The stories differ with what comes after.  Unlike  the Bhudda, Iosaph does not found a religion; rather, in fleeing his  father, King Abenneir, he takes counsel from a monk, Baralaam, who imparts  the faith to him.  Eastern Christanity, in the sixth century, was in a  state of spiritual ferment, as the faith constructed what Malachai Martin  called &quot;castle visions&quot; in his book, &quot;The New Castle.&quot;   The castle vision was a culture's original but fully-developed concept of  how life on Earth ought to be, and what Man's relationship to God was meant  to be.  (The other great castle visions included Catholicism, the LutheranReformation, Angkor Wat, and American idealism, according to Martin.)  St.  John wrote in a century that saw the rise of Mohammad and Islam; the fall  of the Zoroastrian Persian Empire; and the Iconoclast schism that threatned  to tear the early church apart.  Other heresies abounded: Arian kings ruled  Gothic lands in the West; Nestorians abounded in the East, even reaching  China.  A writer of the previous century remarked that when one asked the  baker for a loaf of bread, the reply was likely to include a discussion of  the nature of the Son, or on His procession through the Father, or on the  two Natures in one Person, and the like.  Stylites stood upon pillars for  as much as a half-century, praying and fasting, in all weather, wearing  their beards for garments, living on what the birds and pilgrims brought  them.  The world was then near the zenith of what Spengler called  &quot;Magian&quot; civilization, in his &quot;The Decline of the  West.&quot;  Magian civilization was the name given to all the religous  movements, beginning with Zoroaster in the 7th Century, B.C., and the  post-Captivity Jewish prophets, including both Christanity, Islam, and the  host of neo-Platonist, Gnostic, and other movements, that looked beyond  this world to a Judgement Day and taught that a spiritual war was being  fought between Good and Evil.  Even as these religons were, in many cases,  mutually exclusive, they shared the common characteristics noted above, and  gave a distinct flavor to the age between the conversion of Constantine and  the Crusades.      In this milieu, St. John wrote of Iosaph's flight from  his angry father, of his life in the desert with Baralaam, and of their  eventual capture by Abenneir.  Iosaph's meek and holy example broke through  the old King's hard heart, and he, too becomes a monk, after a life lived  as a bloody tyrant.  (Abenneir is even named on the feast day of Baralaam  and Iosaph in some Eastern communities.) The passages on Iosaph andBaraalam's life as desert monks will conjur strange feelings in Western  minds:  the joy with which they fasted, denied their bodies, and  voluntarily endured pain in pursiut of holieness are utterly strange to our  way of life.      Whether or not St. John was passing on a legend of the  Bhudda unknowingly or not, the spirit of the East, when it was first and  fully the East, prevades this remarkable work.  Reading it is like opening  a wondow into the soul of a distant world, yet one that was, in time and  space, much nearer to the beginning of Christanity than we are (and perhaps  nearer spiritually, too). -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-09-19
US	49553939	R2HHIE10A33B4S	0786866012	879285883	Shakespeare in Charge: The Bard's Guide to Leading and Succeeding on the Business Stage	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Bard For All Reasons?	The use of Shakespeare for subjects beyone the English Lit. classroom is a  favorite of mine, so I was well-disposed to this book, one of the authors  of which is a former disarmerment negotiator (Kenneth Adelman).  My mile  reaction is based on my belief that much of the book is either common-sense  stuff that you don't need Shakespeare to know (do you need a book to tell  you to look both ways before crossing the street?), or the anologies are  streched a bit.  Using, &quot;The Taming of the Shrew&quot; to teach  contingency planning and salesmanship is streching the point a bit.  I  believe that Shakespeare (who wrote his own plays, no matter what Joe  Sobran thinks) could well have injected his religous and political views  into his writing, but the idea that he ever gave a thought to making points  about business practice may be streching it.  The best chapter is the one  on &quot;Julius Caesar,&quot; which involves charachers leading  organizations and struggling for control of an organization - Rome - in  crisis.  For this chapter alone the book is worth having.  The chapter on  &quot;Henry IV, Part I&quot; is also good, as are the examples from  &quot;Hamlet&quot; and &quot;King Lear,&quot; although the authors miss  what may have been the real point of the latter play.  The good chapters  are the ones that examine the decisions of leaders, usually kings, in  confronting change, crisis, and opportunity.  The weaker sections are the  ones that strech anologies, as noted above.  a point to remember with using  these examples is that the leaders in the dramas are usually political,  vested with monarchical authority.  Their calculations can be  transliterated into those of an executive, if one exchanges subjects for  employees, customers, etc., but not always with the relationships and  nuances of meaning intact.  A better use of Shakespeare is inthe arena of  public administration/political science, with Bloom and Jaffa's  &quot;Shakespeare's Politics&quot; being an excellent example.  While I  would read this book again, it must be remembered that common sense needs  no classic for illustration, and that it might be possible to construct  almost ant absurd scaffolding upon Shakespeare, with less regard to meaning  and intent that ought to be the case. -Lloyd Conway	2000-08-21
US	49553939	R2TD5HMSXPKEMN	1572599294	895845796	Research Methods in the Social Sciences w/Data Disk (Windows)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	A textbook thats actually readable	This is the sixth edition, which means that the still probably useful fifth and previous editions are now good for landfill duty.  The price is hefty. (Why don't textbook publishers offer financing?) That said, this is  a usable book, one that the reader might be tempted not to sell after class  is over.  The research and statistics chapters are well-written and placed  in logical order.  The material is comprehensive, and strikes a nice  balance between not being too technical without being too elementary.  What  appealed to me was the by-the-numbers approach, with numerous lists  embedded in the text throughout.  (For example, if there are seven factors  to consider in reference to the internal validity of a research design,  they are boxed off and numbered, after being discussed in the text.)  The  book comes with a disk containing a 1996 general survey of social science  issues.  This is provided by way of example, and is referenced at the end  of most chapters as a real-world example and 'how to' guide to research  methedology and design.  Nonetheless, you can do as I did, and read without  using the disk (I used it once), and still come away with complete  understanding. This book is also free of the filler that crowds and  obscures useful information in the garden variety textbook.       This book  would have gotten five stars, had it not been for the authors' annoying  habit of using liberal examples.  In a social science research text,  reference to politically sensetive issues is to be expected.  What annoys  is that virtually every example, whether derived from real life, or an  admittedly ficticous example, is given a liberal slant.  If the factors  being researched are education and political orientation, then liberalism  correlates with higher education (read: conservatives are dummies).  If the  subject is nominal variables, the example is party affiliation in a  district where Democrats outnumber Republicans two-to-one.  In other words,  the examplesserve the standard orthodoxies of our time.  Don't expect to  see any on race and abortion, or the use of guns to deter crime.  That  said, since the main users of this book are college students, and as such  are getting much heavier doses of campus radicalism and causes du jour,  this book's bias is relatively mild.  If you are going to study research  methodologies, you could do much worse than this text. -Lloyd Conway	2000-07-31
US	49553939	R2NODFM62MW5BP	067160449X	489562229	Thinking about the Unthinkable in the 1980s	Books	5	32	32	N	N	The rules of nuclear warfare made easy	Herman Kahn was a futurist who worked for the RAND Corporation.  During the 1960s, he wrote the original &quot;Thinking About the Unthinkable.&quot;  It was the outgrowth of his research and of the  &quot;Gedenken&quot; (Ger. 'think') expeirments that he carried out. These  experiments were role-playing and 'what-if' scenerios, during which the  participants, members of the military/diplomatic community, would theorize  on what the rules for nuclear war might be, as well as on what, besides the  obvious, keeps one from breaking out.  For example, if a mad Russian  general had bombed New York, could the United States, even knowing that it  was an accident, have witheld retaliation?  What would be appropriate?  Bombing Moscow?  In this example, it was agreed that Moscow means as much  to Russia as New York and Washington, D.C., and that retaliation would be  necessary to save face (and you never know if it's an accident, anyway, so  keep the cost of 'accidents' high).  Instead of Moscow, hitting Leningrad  was seen as equivalent retaliation, and attacking Moscow as escalation.  Deterrence was divided into three levels as a result of another experiment:  Type I deterrence was a nation's ability to attack opponents by virtue of  first-strike ability (the not-incredible ability to inflict heavy damage).  Type II deterrence was the preceived ability to have enough capacity, after  surviving a first strike, to counterstrike with crippling effect.  Type III  deterrence is the ability to deter conventional war by credible threat of  nuclear escalation, as in Truman's threat to bomb China during the Korean  War.  The book is a mine of wealth about the thought processes involved in  conducting Great Power relations in the Nuclear Age.  Some will be offended  by the concept that nuclear war is thinkable; nonetheless, it is as  necessary to think about how to deter, limit, and defend against the threat  of nuclear war as it is to apply the same reasoning to any other ugly  problem.  It exists, therefore it is better to think and plan for  contingencies, rather than to rely on blind luck or good will to save the  future.  This book is no relic of the Cold War; with the Indo-Pakistani  nuclear tests, our national debate over missile defense, North Korea's  missile program, and the loss or black market sale of ex-Soviet nuclear  materials, these issues are more relevant today than ever before, because a  multi-polar world, with both national and private players (terrorists, drug  cartels, etc.) is less stable than the Cold War ever was.  Indeed, in  twenty years, we may look back on it with nostalgia. -Lloyd A. Conwayem.  It exists, therefore it is better to think and plan for  contingencies, rather than to rely on blind luck or good will to save the  future.  This book is no relic of the Cold War; with the Indo-Pakistani  nuclear tests, our national debate over missile defense, North Korea's  missile program, and the loss or black market sale of ex-Soviet nuclear  materials, these issues are more relevant today than ever before, because a  multi-polar world, with both national and private players (terrorists, drug  cartels, etc.) is less stable than the Cold War ever was.  Indeed, in  twenty years, we may look back on it with nostalgia. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-31
US	49553939	R3SDPJZF5KRXCW	0831707046	671089302	Battleships	Books	4	11	12	N	N	A coffee table history of a departed era	This lavishly illustrated book offers a concise history of the battleship from the end of the Age of Sail to the Iowa Class. Focusing on the world wars has been common in such books; this one also covers the  pre-Dreadnaught era, and does it well.  There are ample photos of the ships  themselves, of scale models, and line drawings.  The text was written by a  lover of the big ships, as is evident in the section on H.M.S. Vanguard,  the last British battleship, described as, &quot;a magnificant sea  boat,&quot; that handled beautifully, without the lumbering movements of  less aquadynamic vessels.  Having been a lifelong fan of the battleship,  and having made the pilgrimmage to Wilmington, N.C. to see U.S.S. North  Carolina, I can say that this is one of the best books in the genre, and a  good one for beginners who want a short, conplete history of ships the like  of which we'll never see again.	2000-07-31
US	49553939	RGZRIPU1TIUID	1881780074	480019950	The Camp of the Saints	Books	5	580	604	N	N	The Prophet as Leper	This book is so politically incorrect that I admire Amazon.com for actually carrying it. Written in the early 1970s, this book looks beyond the cold war to a North-South confrontation in which European civilization is unilaterally morally disarmed. The thesis is simple: suppose a million starving people from the Ganges actually took Western rhetoric of compassion, explotiation, etc., to heart, and comandeered, en masse, shipping, with the intention of moving to the shores of France? (Raspail, of course, is French.) Would anyone stop them? The imagery employed is interesting. The title comes from Revelation, Chapter 20, and refers to the forces of evil laying seige to the camp of the saints, here meant to be the nations of the West. &quot;The thousand years are over...&quot; is chanted from Third World lips, harking to the millenial reign of Christ, as well as to the millenial domination of Europe over the globe. Raspail has the Vatican, World Council of Churches, and other organs of what he saw as Western liberal compassion try to feed the Armada, as it sails around the Cape. The bodies of their would-be benefactors are cast into the sea. The characters who oppose, with violence, the Armada are named with names like Constantine Drasages and Luke Notaras, namesakes of the last Byzantine Emperor and Admiral. They are portrayed as villans in the media; one of the more thoughtful leftists, fashionably in support of opening up France's shores, but cynical enough to see the potential results, reflects on the parallels between Byzantium's fate and that of the West. The author's point is that any who dare to say that 'white' civilization has a right to exist are branded racists and cast out of the pale of polite society. The narrative is set up as a flashback. The Armada is about to disgorge its human cargo in Provence as we begin. An old man, M. Calgues, awaits them, Mozart playing in the background, after setting what he expects to be his last supper among the living. From there, we go back to the beginning, in India, as a Western cleric preaches quasi-liberation theology to the masses. Along the way, as the news spreads over the world, we digress, looking at Manhattenites holing up in skyscrapers as the spectre of race riots beckon, and at Russian troops on the Manchurian border contemplating the human waves gathering to wash over them. The central question of the book is this: will the West (including Russia - more properly, the North), when (not if) confronted with de facto occupation of national territories by Third World people, coming to live, but not to assimilate, use violence to save itself? Is there left in Euro-American civilization a will to live that is strong enough to pull a trigger? The stark question is answered in one of two possible ways by the concluding chapter. This astringent book, whether you agree with Raspail's views or not, demands thoughtful attention to the questions posed. How will we deal with population/immagration issues? Is our culture and way of life worth fighting for? -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-31
US	49553939	R2X4GZG5QU8YTH	0441763545	356973037	The Sign of The Moonbow (Cormac Macart)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Last Roman	Syagrius, the last Roman commander in the West, makes an appearance in this book.  He accepts the aid of Cormac Mac Art and Wulfhere the Skull-Splitter in defending Sossions against Clovis.  Tied in with the  historical fact of Syagrius' defeat in 486, which ended Roman control of  southern Gaul, and marked the end of his 10-year holdout after the fall of  Rome, this final work in the series begun by Robert E. Howard ends Thulsa  Doom's reign of terror as Cormac's arch-foe.  With the lovely Samire at his  side, the heroes do battle with Hengist, the Danish king and mortal enemy  of Wulfhere, before reaching doomed Sossions.  Andrew Offut also uses the  novel to advance theories on the origins of the Irish race, tying in the  Tulath de Danu, with their moonbow emblem, with Greek Diana, who also is  identified with the crescent Moon.  A good, light read, for those who like  historical settings for swords &amp; sorcery adventures. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-27
US	49553939	R1RVNUOLNTPJDW	0312793642	888665005	Tetrascroll: Goldilocks and the Three Bears	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Odd and enlightening	And entertaining!  Fuller, self-described as, &quot;The Planet's Friendly Genius,&quot; wrote this book as a hand-held version of a single, large scroll, covering nearly a city block,that is the original version of this  work.  The book uses the fairy tale character Goldilocks  (&quot;Goldy&quot;) to explain Fuller's observations on the universe.  Starting with insights into the nature of experience, such as identifying  the act of observation as having four components (the observer, the  observed, the line of sight between them, and the background against which  the observed is seen), Fuller takes the reader on a tour of cosmic and  human history.  The Three Bears become constellations, and serve as props  for Fuller's elucidations and digressions.  The book abounds with  illustrations, used to reinforce the story line. The reader ends up in the  Middle East, where Fuller has the great monolithic world religions rising  out of the need to secure the Silk Road to the East.  While I disagree with  Fuller's thesis in some respects, as his worldview appears to not depend on  the existence of God, and I heartily disagree with his explanation of the  rise of christanity, the book is nonetheless entertaining, original, and  free of malice.  The inventor of the Geodesic Dome, among other things, was  an American original, and his book well worth the having. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-27
US	49553939	R1YJNHM86JZK6N	087486187X	228019611	The Gospel in Dostoyevsky: Selections from His Works	Books	5	42	42	N	N	Homilies in Classic Literature	The Soviet Union burned Bibles and banned their importation.  Yet, possibly out of national pride, they never censored the work of this great Russian novelist.  Luther once said that if the entire Bible were lost,  except the Book of Romans, that it alone would be enough for salvation.   Dostoyevesky takes us a step further:  in a land where one could be born,  grow up, and die at normal life expectancy, all under the aegeis of  Communism, without ever seeing a Bible, could the message of the Gospel  still be found?  Of course, the author died decades before the Revolution  of 1917, but his work answeres the question we pose in the affirmative.   His works, excerpted for this book, contain what can only be described as  lengthy homilies, clothed as literature.  From the famous &quot;Grand  Inquisitor&quot; from &quot;The Brothers Karamatzov,&quot; to lesser-known  passages from &quot;The Idiot&quot; and other works, each selection  expounds on Christian doctrine.  Strongly influenced by the Gospel of St.  John, Dostoyevesky uses the resurrection of Lazarus, for example, as the  basis of a conversation between a murderer and a prostitute in &quot;Crime  and Punishment.&quot;  The eleventh chapter of John is included in near  entirety, as one sufferer reads it to the other.  Nearly all of the imagery  here is Johnnine; perhaps Dostoyevesky was a visionary:  Spengeler wrote  that the next millenium of Russian histoty would belong to St. John.  Al  all events, this is a bedside companion that will provoke deep reflection  in those who read it, and perhaps make them wonder, as I do, if  Dostoyevesky's works weren't intended by a higher power to be a light in  the darkest days of the Evil Empire. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-27
US	49553939	R1KHINXT28Q5FX	0441807062	93331930	Tigers Of The Sea	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Thulas Doom's real nemesis	Those who have seen the movie &quot;Conan the Barbarian&quot; will no doubt remember Jemes Earl Jones' excellent portrayal of the snake-loving bad guy, Thulsa Doom, Priest of Set.  What they may not know is that he  originally was the nemesis of another Robert E. Howard hero, Cormac Mac  Art, the protagonist of the four stories in this book.  Mac Art's exploits  are chronicled in seven volumes, of which this is the fifth, and last by  Howard's hand.  Mac Art is an Irish expatriate, pirate, and warrior par  excellence living at the time of the fall of the Roman Empire in the West.   His companion, Wulfhere Hausklifer, is a Danish Viking, and it is with him  that Cormac sails, in search of adventure.  His love interest, the Irish  princess Samire, also makes her appearance in one of the stories.   Confronting supernatural opponents like the Druid Zogar Sag, they manage to  prove that courage (and Conan-like martial ability) conquors all.  The  final confrontation with Thulsa Doom has to wait for the final book,  &quot;Sign of the Moonbow,&quot; however.  If you like historical  sword-and-sorcery tales, this is one of the best. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-27
US	49553939	R38UD5YOZFEUJP	0671695347	54048304	About Face: The Odyssey of an American Warrior	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One Bad Mother	And a lover of the Army.  The combat heroics recounted here, told with a fair amount of modesty, would be rejected by Marvel Comics, because even SGT Rock wasn't this good.  (Hack is said to have inspired the COL Kilgore  character in &quot;Apocalypse Now.&quot;)Lying about his age to join at 15,  Hack joined because he loved soldiers and wanted to pick up chicks.  Along  the way, he learned soldiering from pros like Steve Prezenka, the  noncon-turned-officer who showed him how it was done, Old Army style, in a  backwater posting on the Yugoslav border.  Hack learned well.  In Korea, he  was battlefield commissioned at age 18, and started collecting the first of  his record 123 medals, including 2 DSCs, 8 Silver Stars, and 8 Purple  Hearts.  More impressive than the mere retelling of battlefield heroics,  however, is his commentary on what was going wrong with his Army.  Having  learned from Old Army noncoms about duty, honor and country, Hack became  progressively alienated from Army leadership, which was filled with  careerists, who valued their retirements, perks, and future defense  contractor contacts more than they did the lives of the grunts who did the  fighting and dying.  Hack's uncanny ability to sniff out danger and  opportunity, which led GEN Abrahms to call him the finest combat officer  since Patton, coupled with the mentoring of some of the few real warriors  to make rank, like COL Glover Johns and GEN Hank, &quot;THe  Gunfighter&quot; Emerson, saved a career that his outspokenness (and GI  tastes in entertainment) saved a career that would otherwise have been  snuffed out.  Hack's call for an Army trained, led, and dedicated to  winning, and then only when America needs to fight, is an eloquent  perscription for reform in the Armed Forces, and one hell of a good story.  -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-27
US	49553939	R127ZMQ6CHL02O	0895267543	447747030	The Conscience of a Conservative	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The battle cry of the Right	Goldwater hit a home run with the stirring prose that fleshed out his classic statement of American conservative political philosophy.  But it's not just the politics:  it's the idea that Man is not just a political or  econimic animal, but a spiritual creature in need of freedom to prosper.   The opening salvo of this slim volume is still the standard by which I  judge candidates (woe to them!).  Goldwater asks:  Where is the candidate  who will say, 'I am not interested in government efficiency, because I maen  to reduce it's size.  I am not interested in whether legislation is needed  until I have determined if it is Constitutionally permissible.  I will not  pass new laws until I have repealed old ones that have outlived their  usefullness or that do violence to the Constitution.  If I shall be  attached for neglecting my constituents' 'interests,' I shall reply that I  was informed that their interest was liberty, and on behalf of liberty I am  doing the best that I can.'  It dosen't let up to the last page.  As a  policy statement, the issue-by-issue refutation of statist orthodoxy makes  the book comparable to Hazlitt's &quot;Economics In One Lesson.&quot;  This  is the book that launched the Reagan Revolution, and it still has the power  to inspire. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-20
US	49553939	R28VEXXLI7JPJY	0393307050	680723399	Master and Commander	Books	5	6	8	N	N	The Best Sea Yarn Ever?	Having grown up with Horatio Hornblower, Teddy Roosvelt's classic &quot;Naval History of the War of 1812,&quot; and Fletcher pratt's &quot;Empire and the Sea,&quot; among others, I don't impress easily.  I am  impressed by this book, and have three more in the series awaiting my  reading pleasure.  What helps to make the book so enjoyable, above and  beyond a snapping good story, is the superb detail and authenticity of the  telling.  Mr. O'Brien, recently deceased, is a master of his genre, the  period, and of the writer's craft.  The story draws you in; the prose is so  vivid, that there are passages that leave you unaware of your surroundings  as you drink them in.  The turns of fortune, set against the backdrop of  the Napoleonic Wars, nener let the reader guess at the conclusion, even  though the history is well-known.   The principal charachers, Jack Aubrey,  Dr. Stephen Maturin, and Lt. Dillon, are well-sketched, and quirky in ways  that make them seem authentic to their time.  Their speech, and even the  turns of phrase used by the author in telling the tale have an 18th-century  sound to them. The language is reminicent of Gibbon in terms of the  seriousness of the tone of speech. After reading this book, two things are  formost in my mind:  is the rest of the series up to this level, and why,  if they are, didn't he ever get the Nobel Prize? -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-18
US	49553939	R2E3KT9Q10TA0X	0452264898	601259642	Flashman's Lady	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Flashy's best	The author brings several worlds to vivid life, in this novel that links several stories into a seamless whole.  I personally think that Frasier missed his calling:  he should have been a sportswriter.  The cricket game,  with poor idiot Elspeth as the prize, is told so well that I've re-read it  several times.  Each of the worlds he creates, Frasier fills with such  colorful characters that they are three-dimensional.  The cricket game  brings us Deadlius Tighe, esq., a classic scoundrel; Singapore is  personified in Catchick Moses; and British imperial/missionary zeal in  James Brooke.  (The depiction of Brooke inspired me to read everything that  I could find on this fighting seaman and colonizer.) Best of all is a  villan equal to Flashy himself: Sulemann Usman.  The novel gives the reader  the wide world, and does it in such a way as to make it seem real, as in  the eyes of a 19th century mind.  A keeper that brings genuine enjoyment  with every re-reading. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-18
US	49553939	RKVWF47HGBFZQ	0517548232	656533858	Economics in One Lesson: The Shortest and Surest Way to Understand Basic Economics	Books	5	62	72	N	N	Put This Book In Your Children's Hands	And make them read it.  Less a primer in economics than a concise debunking of crank positions on economic issues, this book can clear the air (and the mind) quickly after some interested sophist plumps for a  discredited idea.    Hazlitt's parable of the broken window, meant to show  how what dosen't happen as a result of human action is at least as  important as what does, is the best introduction to economic theory for the  average reader since Adam Smith.  The visible results that people see as a  result of government intervention in the market must be weighed against  what did not come to pass because of the reallocation of resources (i.e.,  your hard-earned money) that such action necesitates.  This book is  timeless, in that it is not tied to concrete examples drawn from the  headlines of 1946, and is also remarkably free of venom , passion, or  spite, which too often mar polemical works on economics - and serve to  camouflage bad reasoning.  This book can be a basic education in itself, or  the beginning of deeper study, in the works of Von Mises, Von Hayek,  Schumpeter, or of Hazlett himself.  Unlike his opposition (Keynes, et al),  Hazlitt is actually readable. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-07-17
US	49553939	R3TLJDVG77R20C	0842309039	231429456	The Flames of Rome: A Documentary Novel	Books	4	17	18	N	N	More history than fiction	The subtitle, &quot;A Documentary Novel,&quot; is accurate.   The author's novel (pun intended) approach to writing this book was to use only historical personages, and to take no literary license.  Fiction there is,  but no historical fact is contradicted, and the fill-in fictionalizing is  done on the most probabalistic lines.  This genre of work is just a few  degrees removed from that of Edmund Morris' &quot;Dutch,&quot; the Reagan  bio into which the author inserted himself as a ficticious person.  The  detailed notes appended to the story validate the scope and many of the  details of the plot.  The minute research and command of all surviving  historical works from the period, down to unpublished inscriptions found on  ruins across the breadth of the Roman Empire, mark the author as among the  most deeply versed Classicists alive.    As literature, the book's readable  and fast-paced plot does not rise to the level of &quot;Quo Vadis?&quot; or  &quot;Ben Hur,&quot; but easily compares with &quot;The Robe.&quot;  A  stimulating and enjoyable read - all the more facinating because all of the  named characters are authentically historical. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-27
US	49553939	R3VP9XFQN54O3R	0805203974	393180644	Secret of the Hittites: The Discovery of an Ancient Empire	Books	4	21	22	N	N	The Discovery of an Ancient Empire	Rivaling Egypt and Babylon at the zenith of its' power, the Hittite Empire was so completely destroyed that only the tiniest pieces of a large mosaic remained, erasing their centuries-long sway over Asia Monor from the memory  of man.        Ceram's book looks at both the Hittite Empire and its'  discovery in the 19th and early 20th centuries.  Both tales are equally  compelling. Among the first Indo-Europeans to appear in history, they  established themselves as a warrior aristocracy in Anatolia ca. the 19th  century, B.C. Ruling a polygot collection of ancient kingdoms, they 'went  native' as regards religion and culture to a great extent.  Their  decentralized system resembled a confederacy, and their early government  featured a limited monarchy, ruling jointly with a proto-Senate (the  Pankus).      Ceram is at his best in tracing the unravelling the silence  that shrouded them from the time of the Fall of Troy until the 19th  century.  He shows how the accidental discovery of their capital, Hattusa,  by explorers led to debates as to who built it.  Next, the cuneiform  libraries of their kings yielded another suprise: They spoke an  Indo-European language.  The work of Friederich Hornzy, an Austrian who  deciphered the language as his likf's work, is a compelling vingette.        The identification of this ancient empire with the Hittites mentioned in  the Bible sparked intense controversy, but proved to be true.  Proponents  took one reference, from II Kings 7:6, in which the kings of the Hittites  come before the kings of the Egyptians in precedence, to infer their  existence as a great power.  Ceram leaves us with other tantilizing  questions, such as: was the Attasyrias who raided the western shores of  Asia Minor the Atreus whose sons, Agmamenon and Melemeus, sacked Troy?  A  highly readable, yet rather scholarly account of one of archaelolgy's  greatest triumphs, written almost in the style of a mystery novel. -Lloyd  A. Conway	2000-06-26
US	49553939	R5I7WW4M3COP6	0934640033	584399678	Grave Diggers	Books	5	16	17	N	N	You would be dead now if...	...your life depended on our ability to stop one intercontinental ballistic missile launched at us, or on our competitors keeping their word as set down in arms control treaties.  This, in a nutshell, is the thesis  of this book.  Don't let the 1964 publication date fool you; the examples  and data may be old, but the argument is as compelling and relevant today  as when it was written.  That argument is: our security must be grounded in  our own ability to defend ourselves, not in treaties with nations whose  precieved national interest may be at variance with the scraps of paper  that they signed.  This should be a no-brainer, but today's heated debate  over missile defense shows that it is not so.  The author lays out the case  for our being in danger, and her perscription for meeting that danger, in  prose direct as it is vigorous.  A very useful promer on strategic issues  for readers in an age when people are often deluded into believing that we  are at the 'end of history.' -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-21
US	49553939	RAW4DT8BZ9W0K	0404145779	160527954	Five Stages of Greek Religion	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Brilliant exposition and insight	Murray's book should be the standard work on the subject.  This small volume is the outgrowth of a lecture series given before the First World War.  Murray traces the growth and development of Greek religion from it's  beginnings in prehistorical animism to the full flowering of the major  schools of philosophy, and thence to their extinction.  Murray explores  the irrational, Dionysic strand that emerged independantly of the Olympian  mythos, and shows how both predate Homer.  He considers the minor deities,  such as the boundary statues (koures) mentioned by Thucydides in connection  with Alcibiades' impiety.  The eloquent chapters on the rise of  philosophy-cum-religion are the most memorable in a memorable book.  Murray's vingettes on the lives and actions of the founders of the famous  schools - linked as they are in lineal descent from Socrates, Epicurus  excepted, are excellent biographical sketches in their own right.  His  examination of the faults in each philosophical system, Aristotle's  Pertpetetic School excepted, shows how, after banishing Olympian myth,  essential to keeping hold of thinking minds, they let them back in,  pantheistically, or as manifestations of the universal creator, etc.  (Epicurus preached a materialism that did not fully recognize divinity, and  so he may be partly excused, as well.)  This book this lays out how  the hellenistic world was prepared for the advent of Christanity, as the  rise of philosophy asked the right questions to move thinkers beyond myth,  and philosophy's subsequent fall into Neoplatonism and other pantheistic  movements left the Greco-Roman world looking elsewhere for answers.  An  outstanding addition to any classical library. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-15
US	49553939	R1SXDCVT0WCPSH	1855857049	688583958	Ancient Trees: Trees That Live For 1,000 Years	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Facinating and beautiful	This book is a enthralling look at the world's oldest trees.  Aside from the famed redwoods and bristlecone pines, how many know that limes can live over 1000 years, or that olive trees from Plato's time still yield their  fruit in season?  reading the chapters of this book send the mind wandering  back across all of human history:  the Tree of One Hundred Horses, an olive  tree so huge that its' shade could cover literally a hundred head of horse,  famous in Plato's time, has thrived at the foot of Mt. Etna, an active  volcano, since nearly the dawn of history. Or, think of how there are  cedars in Lebanon that were standing when Solomom's temple was built out of  their brothers.  The reverie and sense of awe that this tome's stories  inspire are well worth the price. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-12
US	49553939	R1NYPF32RR3ECJ	1563523302	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door: The Surprising Secrets of America's Wealthy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lifestyles of the rich and obscure	This book is a cut above most 'how to get rich' books, because it is empirical, research-driven analysis of the habits of American millionaires, done over the period from 1973 to just before publication.  The authors  look at the petit millionaires, not the super-rich, so as to examine the  habits of those whose wealth level is achievable in a lifetime.  The habits  of the group, consisting of those with between $1 and $10 million in  assets, reveals that the 'magic' formula is to work hard, not stay in  college forever, go into business for yourself, if possible, and live below  your means.  I'm not at all sure that this wouldn't be the advice of  someone who had survived the Great Depression in good shape, but the  authors back it up with hard statistical data.  Living on less than you  earn, staying away from status items, and building wealth over time are  three of the keys identified by the authors.  Reading this book reminded me  again that America is truly the land of opportunity, and that an individual  can become wealthy without going to a prestige university, earning a high  income, having connections, etc; in other words, the American Dream lives,  and those who fail to achieve it frequently have no one but themselves to  blame, especially now that this roadmap is available. Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-12
US	49553939	R24CPUNII6BYYC	0930462106	252540735	Fighting Chance: Ten Feet to Survival	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Dig Tunnels Deep, Store Grain Everywhere...	Technology as old as the spade is the centerpiece of this book's thesis on how Americans can be defended against nuclear attack. Leaving aside SDI or any other anti-missile system, this book concentrates on civil defense. The argument made is that MAD (Mutual Assured Destruction), in which each nuclear power holds the others' undefended cities hostage to ensure the peace, is seen as immoral (with which this writer agrees). The solution offered is to go low-tech. Pointing out how England and Germany bombed each other into rubble, North notes that war production was largely unaffected (Germany's peaked in August of '44), because bomb shelters protected the populace. Hiroshima survivors within several hunderd yards of ground zero lived because they had enough overhead cover to absorb both the blast and the radiation. (My own military training stressed that 2 feet of packed earth would absorb over 99% of the fallout of a nuclear blast.) The authors propose that America adopt a nationwide system of shelter construction, designed to house the population in the event of a nuclear confrontation. They take pains to discuss stockage of food, water, and medecine, as well as the likely amount of space per person. The benefits are that, by being defended, we are less a target for nuclear blackmail, and the system could be used for natural and man-made disasters. Gary North's reputation may have taken a deserved hit over his call on Y2K, but he's on the money here, and quotes Mao on Chinese thinking on the subject: &quot;Dig tunnels dep, store grain everywhere, and never seek hemegeony.&quot; This book should be at the center of the national debate over defense policy in this year's election. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-06-09
US	49553939	R1GVJ6JZ6BR2ZV	0814317049	817714496	Byzantine Christianity: Emperor, Church and the West (Waynebook)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Church, State and the Heresies	Dr. Magoulias produced a useful manual for the study of the early Eastern church.  The work looks at Caesaropapism, or the union of church and state.  This issue, which provoked controversy with Latins, arises out of the  Eastern Emperor's position as guardian of the Church, and his duties,  which, in church tradition, were above those of the laity, but of a lesser  nature than that of a full priest.  Magoulias also considers East-West  relations; over the course of centuries, from the final temporal split of  Eastern and Western Empires in 410 to the Great Schism of 1054, he treats  of each controversy, and how they progressively divorced the two great  branches of Christanity in the Middle Ages.  Lastly, each of the  controversies, heresies and schisms is discussed breifly, from the Donatist  Schism of the early 300s, to the debate over Heschycasm on the eve of the  Byzantine Empire's fall in the fifteenth century.  Iconoclasm is given the  deepest treatment, which is appropriate, given the centuries-long struggle  it percipitated.  Reading about the various heretical ideas spawned then  will give the reader an appreciation, if he contemplates the revival of so  many of them today under different names, of how things do not really  change so much as they stay the same. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-30
US	49553939	R1IE7P8M6XLCHP	091031103X	119936634	The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow: The New Age Movement and Our Coming Age of Barbarism	Books	5	11	24	N	N	Connecting All The Dots	Open any book on the New Age Movement up, and if it's one that attempts to expose the dark side of the NAM, chances are that the author will site Mrs. Cumbey.  That's because she was the first one to research the subject and  make her findings available to the general public.  Trying to understand  NAM research without reference to Constance Cumbey is like trying to  understand Egyptology without mentioning the Rosetta Stone.      Cumbey  connects all the dots.  She links each major segment of the New Age  Movement, along with allied groups, into a systematic whole.  The story is  alarming and unsettling.  Cumbey's well-researched thesis(she took several  years off from a busy law practice after stumbling upon the initial  information) is that there is a systematic, organized movement, with many  fronts, that seeks to reform the Earth and humanity along the lines of  their utopian beliefs.  Secular readers may wish to equate this with  lower-order manifestations of power, such as world government (&quot;The  New World Order&quot;), but Cumbey lays the responsibility where she, as a  Christian, clearly saw that it belongs: with Satan.      You will have a  difficult time disbelieving this book, and events since it's publication in  1985 serve to confirm it's message and warning. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-26
US	49553939	R30ANC08B3IHQX	0140442081	61570983	The Consolation of Philosophy (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	The Final Document of Classical Antiquity	The Consolation of Philosophy is the last work that can be described as classical.  Boethius, a Christian scholar (De Tractes)and public servant, penned the Consolation while awaiting death by torture on the orders of  Theodoric, Ostrogothic King of Italy.  Boethius consoled himself by  writing an allegory in which Philosophy, in the bodily form of his nurse,  comes to him to clarify his mind, weighed down with unhappieness over his  misfortune.  The style is called the Menippian Satire, which alternates  prose sections with short verse stanzas that serve to reinforce the points  made in the subsequent prose.  Philosophy shows Boethius that he is not  abused by Fortune because, as Boethius agrees that God exists, that He is  good, and all-powerful, that nothing can happen which God does not permit.  His treatment of divine foreknowledge and free will is sublime, as is his  discourse on Time and Eternity.  Boethius is heavily indebted to Plato for  much of his natural theology.  This book became the bedside companion of  many people, and was translated by Alfred the Great and Elizabeth I.  All  this, in a work that runs less than 100 pages, depending on the edition.	2000-05-26
US	49553939	R2E6ZVWX4VDCI7	091031103X	119936634	The Hidden Dangers of the Rainbow: The New Age Movement and Our Coming Age of Barbarism	Books	5	39	60	N	N	Connecting All The Dots	Open any book on the New Age Movement up, and if it's one that attempts to expose the dark side of the NAM, chances are that the author will site Mrs. Cumbey.  That's because she was the first one to research the subject and  make her findings available to the general public.  Trying to understand  NAM research without reference to Constance Cumbey is like trying to  understand Egyptology without mentioning the Rosetta Stone.      Cumbey  connects all the dots.  She links each major segment of the New Age  Movement, along with allied groups, into a systematic whole.  The story is  alarming and unsettling.  Cumbey's well-researched thesis(she took several  years off from a busy law practice after stumbling upon the initial  information) is that there is a systematic, organized movement, with many  fronts, that seeks to reform the Earth and humanity along the lines of  their utopian beliefs.  Secular readers may wish to equate this with  lower-order manifestations of power, such as world government (&quot;The  New World Order&quot;), but Cumbey lays the responsibility where she, as a  Christian, clearly saw that it belongs: with Satan.      You will have a  difficult time disbelieving this book, and events since it's publication in  1985 serve to confirm it's message and warning. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-26
US	49553939	R11OK2FPG72M0A	0316115894	973184242	The Redhunter: A Novel Based on the Life of Senator Joe McCarthy	Books	5	9	11	N	N	The Truthhunter	Fiction can sometimes be more revealing than a bare recital of fact.  (One need only think of Dickens' novels and how he described 19th century England to see how this can be so.)  Buckley's book accomplishes this with  his portrait of Senator Joe McCarthy.  The novel's subplot, involving the  fictional Harry Boncteau (sp?), is compelling, and is woven nicely into the  overall story.  The McCarthy Buckley describes is ambitious, blind to some  aspects of human nature, and prone to excess, but basically good, and, as  we now know, right in his basic thesis:  Communists had systematically  penetrated American institutions, with subvursive intent.  Art imitates  life in Buckley's portrayal of the seething class hatred for McCarthy on  the part of the Left/Establishment.  It was/is part and parcel of their  animus toward anyone who dared to expose the truth:  Nixon, Chambers, and  sepecially McCarthy.  This novel, which I read in one sitting, finishing in  the wee hours, is both compelling literature and thought-provoking in terms  of it's ideas.  Hopefully, with Soviet archives open and their records  validating much of what he said, this book will become the basis for a  reexamination of a controversial American life. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-24
US	49553939	RVHUGYAWKADES	1891620029	300956381	Fear No Evil	Books	5	57	57	N	N	Spirit Triumphant	Sharansky's autobiography is one of the most compelling works of literature that I have read.  This is literature - it made me pause to  think and reflect on what he said frequently, and my copy is well-thumbed.   The story is of a spiritual journey, as the young Sharansky's awareness of  his Jewishness de-Sovietizes him and leads him into the Gulag - willingly,  as he forknew the risks of protesting Soviet emmigration policy.  His  voluntary civil disobedience seperated him from his bride, Avital,  physically for a decade, but the growing intensity of the spiritual forces  working within and through him bonded them ever more securely.  The moral  courage demonstrated by one of the most celebrated of the Refusniks is  evident on nearly every page.  The spiritual uplift that Sharansky found  came from his faith, and from reading the classics, one of the few  liberties permitted him in the Gulag.  (Looted libraries and personal  collections left the prison system well-stocked for this purpose.) The  comments on how he was encouraged by his encounter with Aristophanes, when  he understood the connection between himself and a character in a 2,500  play through a joke that he finally 'got,'are among the most uplifting in  the book.  Sharansky recounts how that joke opened a floodgate in his mind,  through which came pouring the voices of Rabelais, Cerevantes and other  great classics, reminding him of his humanity and the ways of man.  The  climatic chapter, &quot;The Interconnection of Souls,&quot; should be  re-read many times.   -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-23
US	49553939	R1Z2MZ45OXICV9	081431886X	811832259	Let the Drum Beat: A History of the Detroit Light Guard (Great Lakes Books Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Detroit Light Guard's history	Dr. Slovick has written a useful chronicle of Michigan's oldest military unit.  As a former member of A Company, the original Light Guard unit, I enjoyed the book.  The history is at it's most exciting in the 19th  century, when the Light Guard was among the Michigan units that were first  to answer Lincoln's call for volunteers from the west.  From the first Bull  Run, where more Light Guard bodies were found around Stonewall Jackson's  position than from any other unit, to the end of hostilities, they were in  the thick of the fight.       The Spanish-American War, the expedition to  catch Pancho Villa, and World War I (the mobilization came two days after  returning from Mexico) provide interesting chapters.  The rest of the book  is anticlimax, as the Light Guard, used as a training unit after being  called up, originally for one year in 1940, saw no action in World War II.        Detroit natives will find the intertwining of city history with the  story to be of interest, from pictures of the old armory on Brush near  downtown to the call-up for the '67 riots. There is some irony in the fact  that this book was written a couple of years before the Light Guard, after  not being called up for Desert Storm, was reorganized.  Instead of  infantry, the unit, with it's battle streamers dating back to the Mexican  War, is now a forward support unit. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-23
US	49553939	R3BSU398B1ISXV	0814318193	149581886	Working Detroit	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Labor History in Motown	Babson's book looks at labor movement history in Detroit as a microcosm of American history as a whole.  The field is one not usually covered by historians, and the nearness in time of the events allow for the use of  living sources, both of which contribute to make the telling different and  authentic.  I liked the way that Babson connected events in Detroit with  the big picture, as with the sidebar on the Debs campaign for President.  The feeling that he conveys of those outdoor Socialist rallies is like that  of a tent revival, a fervor generally absent from the politics on the left  today.  Detroit's leadership in American industrialism for most of the  century now ending give the story of Labor's rise national importance, but  natives will probably enjoy the book more, given it's intimate portrait of  familiar places and faces from our recent past.	2000-05-23
US	49553939	R18E567HQJT1W7	0671691309	292088872	Take Time for Paradise: Americans and Their Games	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Timeless Insights and Valedictory Thoughts	A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote this book immediately prior to his unexpected death in 1989. It appeared in print posthumously.  That he would pen a paen to baseball at the height of the Pete Rose scandal, as his last published  work, is ironic.  His prose is sublime.     The slender volume is a  monograph on the nature of the game of baseball.  It is timeless because it  is not tied to temporal events.  With little alteration, the book could  have been written a hundred years ago, or (I hope) a hundred years hence.   The Commissioner of Baseball and former Yale Professor of Renaissance  Literature explores the intellectual facination of the game. From the  geometry of the diamond to the Homeric nature of the baserunner's struggle  to reach home again, Giamatti's story is enlightening as well as  entertaining.  Insights into the nature of our society flow naturally,  given that sport in general should be seen in the context of the  civilization that spawns it.  One that I found to be especially memorable  was on the commonalities of learning that change from generation to  generation.  Giamatti wrote of how the rising generation would understand  the world through a computer screen, even as their progenitors had seen it  through books, and of the differences, both great and small, that it would  make to the thought patterns of our young.  All this against the literally  timneless fabric of a game played without a clock. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-22
US	49553939	R7RQ7MF8F5GNJ	0671691309	292088872	Take Time for Paradise: Americans and Their Games	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Timeless Insights and Valedictory Thoughts	A. Bartlett Giamatti wrote this book immediately prior to his unexpected death in 1989. It appeared in print posthumously.  That he would pen a paen to baseball at the height of the Pete Rose scandal, as his last published  work, is ironic.  His prose is sublime.     The slender volume is a  monograph on the nature of the game of baseball.  It is timeless because it  is not tied to temporal events.  With little alteration, the book could  have been written a hundred years ago, or (I hope) a hundred years hence.   The Commissioner of Baseball and former Yale Professor of Renaissance  Literature explores the intellectual facination of the game. From the  geometry of the diamond to the Homeric nature of the baserunner's struggle  to reach home again, Giamatti's story is enlightening as well as  entertaining.  Insights into the nature of our society flow naturally,  given that sport in general should be seen in the context of the  civilization that spawns it.  One that I found to be especially memorable  was on the commonalities of learning that change from generation to  generation.  Giamatti wrote of how the rising generation would understand  the world through a computer screen, even as their progenitors had seen it  through books, and of the differences, both great and small, that it would  make to the thought patterns of our young.  All this against the literally  timneless fabric of a game played without a clock. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-22
US	49553939	R38JN100HG46PY	1551640899	401404358	The Politics of Obedience: The Discourse of Voluntary Servitude	Books	5	26	28	N	N	Resolve To Serve No More	&quot;...And you are at once free.  I do not ask that you place hands on the tyrant, but merely cease to obey him, and you will see him, like a colossus, fall of his own weight and break into pieces.&quot;  So begins  this short classic.  It reads as if written with words of fire.   Astonishing clarity and moral certitude bathe the ideas expressed.  There  is no room for temporarizing in La Boiete; the breathtaking clarity of his  ideas blew cobwebs from my mind.  It was like learning to walk on two legs  instead of four. Some toung in cheek references to how his rhetoric does  not apply to the France of the Capetian dynasty merely add flavor and wit  to his insights.  Non-violent resistance and civil disobedience both trace  their modern pedigrees to this work. This is a book for the ages, and it is  a shame that it is not widely available in English.  (Knowledge Products  excerpts it on tape in their, &quot;Giants of Political Thought&quot;  cassette series.)  I wish every student could be given a copy of this book;  then, our liberty would face a brighter future than now appears to be the  case. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	RC0EO72AJ68PW	0310520606	412467637	Francis: A call to conversion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Life In Three Parts	Duane Arnold, former Episcopal Chaplain at Wayne State University, and his co-author, a member of a Catholic religois order, look at St. Francis from an interdenominational perspective.  They examine a man who is loved by  Christians of all denominations, as illustrated by a story told in the  Introduction.  One of the authors saw a statue of St. Francis standing in  front of a church in rural Ohio.  The Catholic saint's statue had been  erected by Shiloh Baptist church.      The book is divided into three  sections, dealing with the three phases of St. Francis' life:  the  pre-conversion years, when he was, &quot;Lord of the Feasts,&quot; the  conversion at the ruin of the Church of St. Damien and his wilderness  years, and from his being given a Papal grant to found an order until his  death.  The chapters on the conversion at St. Damien's and his receiving  the Stigmata are worth the price of the book.      This slender volume is  well worth owning. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R3MYY5RFIRRQD1	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	2	5	15	N	N	Eloquence Isn't  Economics	If passionate rhetoric and vigorous prose were enough to win arguments, then Mr. Buchannan would carry the day.  I came away almost persuaded, at times by his thesis, but cannot accept it.      The thesis, that our  soverignity and prosperity are in danger from globalization, has some  validity.  His perscription, protectionism, is a fallacious argument that  was exposed and discredited by Adam Smith.  Buchannan's version of economic  history tries to lay the blame for the Depression elsewhere than at the  feet of Mssrs. Smoot and Hawley, whose tarriff caused markets to crash and  incited a trade war.  Buchannan's belief that our jobs are fleeing to  Mexico is unsustainable, given the current full employment in our economy.         This book is, I am given to understand, the companion volume to,  &quot;A Republic, Not An Empire.&quot; That work addresses more effectual  solutions to protecting American soverignty, and is more deserving of  praise than this collection of well-intentioned, but impractical and  counter-productive ideas. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R1BYVDRRCEGUKD	0814315941	253951521	Roman Realities	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Roman History Like It Was Meant To Be	The late Dr. Hooper's terse style is like the Romans he tells of: to the point, shorn of excess, straightforward.  The tone of the book matches the expression of the bust of Caracalla that adorns the cover: gravitas  personified.  He spends more time on the Republic than on the Empire, and  breaks off during the Civil Wars for a chapter on Latin letters and poetry  (a subject taken again in his &quot;Roman Letters&quot;).  Hooper covers  all the highlights in highly readable fashion.  A fine general/introductory  book on the subject, written in magistral fashion. -Lloyd Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	RT7CJ0E7CRX88	0394555082	642527170	Dutch: A Memoir of Ronald Reagan	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Dutch Treat	Reagan's utter mysteroiusness confounded everyone who knew him, Nancy excepted.  Edmund Morris is no exception.  The book's style, as a semi-fictionalized memoir, does not bother me, as it is understood to be a  literary device.  The puzzlement of the author is actually more reflective  of the reality of the subject than are the superficial judgements of Garry  Wills and others who claimed to have solved Reagan's mystery.  The massive  amount of detail is organized logically; the reader will come away with a  complete and detailed knowledge of Reagan's life, alebit without opening a  window into his soul.  (Perhaps some will find it, amid the mass of  information that Morris gives us.)        Some of the vingettes are quite  compelling:  Reagan's decision to go public with his Alzheimer's diagnosis;  the resolute domination of Gorbachev at the Reykjavik Summit, coming after  the progressive hollowness evident in Reagan during his first debate with  Mondale two years earlier; the stirring eclipse of Ford with his speech to  the Republican convention in 1976.        Revelations about the extent and  seriousness of Reagan's injuries stemming from the assasination attempt  have historical merit, and highlight the man's character in what may have  been his finest hour.  Tantalizing references to the HUAC hearings in the  '50s leave the reader to fill in the details of a mental picture in which  can be seen Ayn Rand, Richard Nixon, Reagan, and other names that would  dominate for decades interacting in high drama.      Shortcomings aside,  this book is well worth reading.   -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R2IPSFOX9GUGJB	0814317642	432657166	O City of Byzantium: Annals of Niketas Choniates (Byzantine Texts in Translation)	Books	5	26	28	N	N	An Eastern View of the Crusades	Choniates' book chronicles the waning years of Byzantine power, from the Commenian dynasty to the fall of Constantinople to the latin armies of the Fourth Crusade.  The exceptional violence of the sack is graphically  recorded by Choniates; as an eyewitness to the destruction of 1,000 years  of independence at the hands of fellow 'Christians,' his words are  appropiately bitter.  The ethos is decidedly Old Testament.      The  chronicle is unexpurgated in Magoulias' translation.  The earthy mixes with  the mystical in several places, as in the minute description of Anna  Commena's marital relations with her hisband, Bryennos, after the latter  fails to make a bid for the throne against Anna's brother.  (Anna is a  celebrated historian in her own right, having authored the  &quot;Alexiad.&quot;)        The chapters on Andronicus Commenos are almost  Shakespearian, chronicling his promising rise late in life, ruthless rule,  and rapid and bitter fall.  The picture painted by Choniates' words of the  old Emperor beaten and disfigured beyond recognition after his denouncement  are truly tragic.      Dr. Magoulias faithfully preserves the Eastern  spirit of the Byzantine mind.  Son of an Orthodox priest and fellow at  Dumbarton Oaks, he is immersed in his subject, as this work shows.  (I had  the pleasure of attending his lectures at Wayne State University in the  1980s.) -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R2TOVYMMKGKUDK	0375502025	190088526	The Greatest Generation	Books	2	5	9	N	N	More Sound Than Substance	I picked up this book intending to like it.  &quot;Saving Private Ryen&quot; had predisposed me to a certain nostalga for the WWII generation, as had Dole's 1996 candidacy.       Disappointment followed.   The title, on reflection, is hyperbolic:  was this really the greatest  generation in all history, or even American history?  Greater than the  Civil War or Founding Fathers' generations?  The stories are well-written,  and interesting.  The whole is not as great as the sum of the parts,  however.  I came away with the impression that this was another 'last good  war' book, and thus it covering old ground.   -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R6IBFAE77W5FF	0814320236	643252469	Roman Letters: History from a Personal Point of View (Classical Studies Pedagogy Series)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Window Into the Roman Mind	I had the privlege to be a student of both authors - of Dr. Hooper in the 1980s, and of his student, Dr. Schwartz, after his mentor's death, a decade later, at Wayne State University.  Having been thus biased in their favor,  I nonetheless recommend this book.      The book is a series of vingettes  about famous Romans, as seen through their correspondence.  Starting with  Cicero, they work through the standard writers that you might expect:  Seneca, Pliny, etc.  Instead of stopping when the Classic writers  dissapear, the book continues on with the Chirch Fathers.  Augustine and  Athanasius continue where their forbearers left off, opening a window into  their world through both private and public correspondence.  This provides  the conectivity sometimes missing in accounts of the Roman world:  the link  between the ancients and the Age of Faith.  (Augusting was inspired by  Cicero's &quot;The Orator,&quot; so this is a necessary connection.)       My sentiments are doubtless colored by affection for my old teachers, but I  believe that this book would be read and re-read with pleasure by anyone  who loves the classics.   -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R1VTWEVT7Z7CJL	0316115185	690803164	The Great Betrayal: How American Sovereignty and Social Justice Are Being Sacrificed to..	Books	2	5	12	N	N	Eloquence Isn't  Economics	If passionate rhetoric and vigorous prose were enough to win arguments, then Mr. Buchannan would carry the day.  I came away almost persuaded, at times by his thesis, but cannot accept it.      The thesis, that our  soverignity and prosperity are in danger from globalization, has some  validity.  His perscription, protectionism, is a fallacious argument that  was exposed and discredited by Adam Smith.  Buchannan's version of economic  history tries to lay the blame for the Depression elsewhere than at the  feet of Mssrs. Smoot and Hawley, whose tarriff caused markets to crash and  incited a trade war.  Buchannan's belief that our jobs are fleeing to  Mexico is unsustainable, given the current full employment in our economy.         This book is, I am given to understand, the companion volume to,  &quot;A Republic, Not An Empire.&quot; That work addresses more effectual  solutions to protecting American soverignty, and is more deserving of  praise than this collection of well-intentioned, but impractical and  counter-productive ideas. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	R32VE1RBFHWP4D	0814315976	13802518	Greek Realities: Life and Thought in Ancient Greece	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A History With A View	Hooper's book panoramas the history of Hellenic civilization from Mycenae to the Alexandrine Age. His grasp of art, archaeology, architecture, and complete command of his sources inform the magistrial prose that pours off  of every page.  That said, the size of the book is manageable.       Hooper's view of history is similar to Thucydides: non-idealistic, and  mistrustful of extreme forms of democracy.  His views come as through  strongly in interpeting the course of Greek history and civilization in  this book as they did in his lectures when I was his student at Wayne  State.  This is most evident in his chapters on the three Athenian  generations streching fron Marathon to defeat in the Peloponesian War. The  feeling of inevitability, as the city-state moves from triumphant action to  hurbis, exemplified by the debate over the expedition to Syracuse,to defeat  at the hands of Sparta, reads like a Greek tragedy.  So it was. -Lloyd A.  Conway	2000-05-18
US	49553939	RYO717ON6CCLL	0375501916	637630453	Faith of My Fathers	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Bio of a Dynasty	As other reviewers have written, politicians' campaign bios are seldom worth reading.  This one is actually good, and rises to the level of other military memoirs.  Having read the POW memoirs of Stockdale (In Love and  War), Denton (When Hell Was In Session), Reisner, and Alvarez, I can say  that this one is of comparable quality.      What helps to set it apart is  that it is the story of a family.  The McCains are American warlords,  seemingly bred for little else.  McCain claims familial ties to the houses  of Charlemagne and Robert the Bruce.  (Modesty is, alas, not often found  between the the covers.)      I enjoyed the chapters on his grandfather,  Slew McCain, more than any other part of the book. The man was a compelling  figure; hard-living, salty-tounged, beloved of his sailors, from the old  school.  He served with Nimitz in the Phillipines in the years just after  the insurrection triggered by our victory over Spain. The experience of  being a young officer in a remote post often sharpens command skills more  than would be the case with a more plum assignment.  The early independence  of action groomed other great captains, like Slew's contemporary, Erwin  Rommel, for greater things.  The portrait McCain gives of his grandfather  is of a seafaring Sam Damon ('Once An Eagle').      The second biography is  of McCain's father, like grandpa a four-star admiral.  This McCain chose  submarines over his father's carriers, and saw extensive combat in World  War II.        McCain's own story does not dominate the plot until well  into the middle of the book.  Like the rest of his family (and many other  martial luminaries), he barely makes it out of Annapolis, finishing fifth  from the bottom of his class.  The generational differences between the  founder of a dynasty and his decendants is often similar.  Whether it is  the Fords at Ford Motor Company, or the McCains at sea, being the offspring  of a legend can be difficult to handle.  McCain is honest abouthis  shortcomings in his early years.      The POW section reads like other  accounts of the Hanoi Hilton do.  Coming after all that went before, it is  not anticlimax, but nearly so, given that it is what the reader probably  already knew about John McCain before picking up the book.  This is ironic,  given that those years left such an indelible impression on the Senator -  one that his recent trip to Viet Nam shows to still be haunting him. -Lloyd  Conway	2000-05-17
US	49553939	R3GC42NA3UW5XY	0618056645	766601209	Earth in the Balance: Ecology and the Human Spirit	Books	2	30	51	N	N	Richard Weaver vs. Captain Planet	A suprise awaits any conservative in the Richard Weaver tradition who reads this book.  The thesis echos some of the thoughts of the late author of &quot;Ideas Have Consequences&quot; and other works in the conservative  canon.  Both identify Descartes and Bacon as the intellectual progenitors  of the philosophical crisis that is evident in Western civilization.  Both  speak to the progressive divorce of man from his world; both inveigh  against the progressive materialism that fills our conciousness.  The  difference is in how they propose to solve the problem.      Gore  advocates, on the basis of questionable science, worldwide government  action to take control of the biosphere.  Without conclusive evidence,  indeed, without even compelling evidence, he would have us surrender our  freedom and undergo a wrenching change in our lives to avert the coming  disaster that he sees.  Gore is calling for a ban on the internal  cumbustion engine (over 25 years) and a 'Global Marshall Plan' whose ends  include worldwide 'family planning.'  The second half of the book is filled  with a number of similarly-inspired policy proposals.      More disturbing  to me is the tone of the book.  Gore compares the fight to save the planet  to the struggles against Communism and Nazism (pp. 178-180).  If Gore's  intention is not to imply that the opponents of his school of  eviromentalism are the moral equivalent of Nazis, he does not make that  clear.  Contrast his treatment of his opponents on the Right with what he  says of the Deep Environmentalists, who favor the voluntary extinction of  humanity as the best/only way to save the planet.  Gore does not accept  their arguments, but assumes that they are well-intentioned.  No such  charitable licence is given to pro-growth opponents.  The tone of moral  self-righteousness prevades the entire work.          &quot;Earth in the  Balance&quot; is very readable.  Given that the author is honest about his  views, defends his views to thisday, and may soon be President, I  recommend a careful reading, and re-reading, of this book (as I did).  It  would also be good to give the other side a hearing; I recommend Kahn and  Simon's, &quot;The Resourceful Earth,&quot; published at about the same  time as Gore. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-15
US	49553939	RX4UQF2CXD83P	0374111197	481105340	Beowulf: A New Verse Translation	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Window into the Dark Ages	Sometimes our hopes are realized by that which exceeds our expectations.  This is the case with Henry's translation of &quot;Beowulf.&quot;  As Dryden's &quot;Aeneid&quot; is not a translation, but the translation of  Vergil, Henry's &quot;Beowulf&quot; should be the standard in our tongue.       What struck me, forcibly, every time that I picked up this book, was the  otherworldlieness of its' tone. The flavor and texture of the telling is  not of our time. Compared to the standard English translation of my  schooldays, this is a different story.  The richness of the language makes  this a superior translation, and opens a window into the mind of another  era.  The references to God and Christ throughout the book are reverent in  a different way from the formalism of many religous expressions.  It is as  though the soul that brought forth this work spoke with the darkly-shaded  moment born of centuries of war, plague, famine, and also of honor and  fierce pride.  No other translation of the early middle ages has so  captivated me.        The hint of dark foreboding throughout speaks for the  tenor of the times, and makes the work truer to the original.  By contrast,  many of the classics in translation, especially those done in the 19th  century, read as though the ancients were Victorians; the flavor of the  times influenced the translation.  Some of the same thing happened with  Latin letters in the 1960s:  I remember reading a free verse translation of  Catullus that made him sound like a latin hippie.  None of this with Henry.   Perhaps his Irishness helps to give a familiar strangeness to his prose.   At any event, this is a highly satisfying read - one that made me pause to  think on it throughout. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-15
US	49553939	R2PL3BR3MAQ9X8	1570426899	973184242	The Redhunter: A Novel Based on the Life and Times of Senator Joe McCarthy	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Truth Hunter	The novelist can sometimes unfold truth before a reader's eyes in ways that a historian cannot.  This is well known:  Dickens' &quot;Bleak  House&quot; was perhaps as much a critique of classical economics (a la  Mill) as a novel, for example.  Buckley's latest work is in that tradition.       Rehabilitating Senator Joe McCarthy is a long-overdue labor.  This  novel painted a compelling picture of a three-dimensional hero, warts  included, who lived a quintessinal American success story, until his fall.   There is no doubt in my mind that certain elements in our society will view  with disfavor a novel that seeks to humanize one of the all-time bogeymen  of the Left.  The objective reader will have to give careful thought to the  thesis of this book, however.  That thesis is that there was organized  Communist penetration of our government, that their intentions were  treasonous, and that McCarthy did right and good in exposing them.  He went  to excess, but his sins pale next to those of the Establishment types who  ignored the threat, and who probably viewed it with sympathy.  (Class  haterd seeps from many of the characters in the book, both historical and  fictional, for the upstart chicken farmer from Wisconsin who shook up their  little world.)      Political considerations aside, I read it in one day,  staying up until the wee hours to finish it.  This is a classic yarn, and a  compelling page-turner. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-15
US	49553939	R2QJYMN0BDFWMA	1886442169	323582123	The art of political war: How Republicans can fight to win	Books	5	25	30	N	N	Make Politics, Not Love	Mr. Horowitz has penned a terse manual on the art of political war.  The thesis is miitaristic, like the title: politics is a form of battle, in which the side with the greatest will to win, usually does.  Horowitz  outlines this clearly when he states that the attacker usually wins.  This  is typically true because 80% of the damage done to a reputation is done by  the accusation, with little of it undone by later exonoration.  Case in  point:  Reagan's first Labor Secretary, Raymond Donovan, after being  acquitted of highly-publicized, false racketeering charges, asked in court,  &quot;When do I get my reputation back?&quot;  Democrats demogogue  Republicans routinely on issues like Social Security; calm recitation of  fact and principle will not sway the little old ladies frightened by scare  tactics into reconsidering their reflexive vote.        Horowitz recommends  delegitimizing the Left; this is both good tactics and good morally.  The  Democrats use good tactics in the pursuit of bad policy; Republicans should  do the like in pursiut of the common weal.  Outing the Left is duty as much  as it will be fun. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-10
US	49553939	RSBE6XX3XMJXT	089526272X	873277344	A Republic, Not an Empire	Books	4	56	59	N	N	A Freedom Lover, Not a Hitler Lover	John McCain never read this book.  That is clear to anyone who does read it.  Mr. Buchannan recaps the history of US foreign relations; his analysis of the events leading up our entry into World War II is scholarly, fair,  and plausible.  He has not a good word fot Hitler; his thesis is that  Hitler was no threat to us, and that we do not need to bail out the rest of  the world whenever evil rears its' ugly head.  (It is arguable that what  replaced Hitler in eastern Europe was worse than Nazism, based on the body  count on Communism's ledger in the years since Lenin.)  Most Americans are  probably non-interventionists at heart; the sharp decline in armed forces  recruiting may be traceable to a sense that the missions in the post-Cold  War era have no clear connection to defending America.  (As a veteran, I  was/am willing to risk battle for my country, but have no inclination to  kill Serbs on behalf of Albanians, or vice versa.)  One may disagree with  him (as I do on trade), but this is a reasonable book, and nothing written  in it makes him a friend of facism.  Give Mr. Buchannan his due, and read  it for yourself - you'll be a step ahead of his critics. -Lloyd A. Conway	2000-05-10
