US	49564918	R24DQPA3IYMC1L	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Larry finally gets it right!	I have never been a big Larry McMurtry fan.  In fact, after finishing his so called \\"Urban Trilogy\\" I swore that I would never pick up another book of his, finding the greater part of his work trite, sophomoric, hackneyed, poorly written, and peopled with characters that just never came to life (this includes McMurtry's women characters who apparently are in great favor with the critics).  However, faced with an unusually long summer I decided to throw caution and avowals to the wind and give the author one more chance.  With Lonesome Dove, McMurtry returns to the theme of the vanishing frontier, a subject he broached earlier in his career with his novel, Leaving Cheyenne, one of his best efforts, but a book that received little attention when compared with that lavished on his \\"blockbusters\\".  Simply put, Lonesome Dove is not only is best novel but must rank with the best American novels of the last half of the twentieth century.<br /><br />McMurtry's tale of two aging Texas Rangers who decide to take a herd of cattle to the Montana Territory from the lower Rio Grande area of Texas borrows from two literary traditions: (1) the picturesque novels once wildly popular in Europe, and (2) those novels (uniquely American)that deal with the human inclination to search for some mystical absolute, be it white whales or to see the first herd of longhorns in Montana.  It is because McMurtry understands that what he is describing is much more than just a cattle drive, that this novel stands so far above the rest of western and cowboy fiction.  However, in spite of what some reviewers claim, this novel is not the \\"American War and Peace;\\" it takes much more than length to make a great novel and regardless how much McMurtry achieves with Lonesome Dove, he is no Tolstoy.	2005-10-10
US	49564918	RTWKE9STHO2UW	0679783180	325978172	The Charterhouse of Parma (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	13	15	N	N	Plots and counterplots	I recently came across this book in a used book store and while thumbing through its pages remembered that while enrolled in a French literature class in college I had been assigned to read the novel in the original language.  Only two things from that experience stand out: (1) I could not remember one detail from the novel and wondered how I passed the exam, and (2) a remark made by the instructor, an emeritus professor nearing seventy years of age, that \\"you have never been made love to unless you have been made love to in German\\" which struck me as very odd coming from an elderly woman and apropos of anything to do with nineteenth century French literature - although a woman student sitting a few rows in front of me had nodded her agreement.  Of course, I had to pick up the book and re-read it.<br /><br />Stendhal never was one to spend an inordinate time thinking up his own plots (The Red and the Black was based on police records) and this novel is no exception.  It is based very loosely on the early career of Pope Paul III but the time of the novel is moved some three hundred years ahead to coincide with the defeat of Napoleon.  The book chronicles the life and adventures of Fabrizio del Dongo and breaks neatly into two barely connected parts: Fabrizio's adventures at the Battle of Waterloo and his ascendancy into ecclesiastical power politics at the court of Parma.  Regardless of what some existentialists claim to be the story of the \\"modern\\" hero - the individual who is afloat in a stream of events over which he has no control - this is essentially an adventure book and reads much like the romances of Alexandre Dumas.<br /><br />It is also a love story involving Fabrizio's relationships with two women: the seemingly chaste Clelia and Fabrizio's aunt, the Duchessa Sanseverina, who has more than a familial interest in her handsome young nephew.  Machiavelli, himself, would have blushed at some of the Duchessa's machinations and the casuistic justifications of Clelia in accepting Fabrizio as a lover would have pleased even the staunchest Jesuit.  Although Stendhal keeps his narrative moving along nicely, the story is so full of details that the reader can only be shocked at the way in which the author brought his story to an end.  Either Stendhal was just tired of the story or his editors were getting a bit impatient because the author summarizes the last dozen or so years of his chief protagonists in just over five pages, leaving the reader feeling somewhat underwhelmed and a bit cheated.of Clelia in accepting Fabrizio as a lover would have pleased even the staunchest Jesuit.  Although Stendhal keeps his narrative moving along nicely, the story is so full of details that the reader can only be shocked at the way in which the author brought his story to an end.  Either Stendhal was just tired of the story or his editors were getting a bit impatient because the author summarizes the last dozen or so years of his chief protagonists in just over five pages, leaving the reader feeling somewhat underwhelmed and a bit cheated.	2005-06-22
US	49564918	R1BJ6VAB6PK996	0380727501	157497316	Notes from a Small Island	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A Farewell to Old Blighty	Travel books can never make every reader happy.  The author who undertakes this genre must know (or should know) that, despite all the literary powers possible, he has only an equal chance of satisfying those readers who might have shared his experience.  The lovely day the author might have spent in, say Wolverhamptom, might have been pure and unadulterated hell for the reader.  In other words, the personal experience of the author comes face to face with the personal experience of the reader and often are at loggerheads.  When an American author with a sincere love of Britain attempts to describe the mannerisms and the scenery of his adopted island divergent opinions (some quite emotional) are sure to surface; it appears that this is especially so with this book.<br /><br />To be fair to Bryson, this was never anticipated as a travel guide - just a personal self guided farewell tour of the country that he had made his home for over twenty years.  Because it is a personal tour, if his remarks tend to be self-centered, a bit querulous, and over critical of British city planners, so be it.  Personally, I think that Bryson artfully walks the thin line between too much praise and too much scorn and gives a well balanced account of his subject.  Bryson is a fine writer who researches his subject well, possesses a nice concise style and a wonderful sense of humor.  Paradoxically, it is this humor which is the greatest strength as well as the greatest weakness of the book.  When Bryson is NOT trying to be funny he is hilarious.  For example, in the brief little essay on British place names he muses that on his first trip to the island he always wanted to go to Newquay to stock up on postcards because he thought the town was called Nookie.  However, when describing his ineptitude with cars he quotes a \\"question\\" from an imaginary avid car lover: \\"[Does your car] have twin overhead cams or double-barreled alternator-cum-carburetor with a full pike and a double-twist dismount?\\"  Pretty lame.<br /><br />I particularly enjoyed his descriptions and reminiscences of London (especially the Times strike) and his judicious remarks about the Midlands, an area of the island that rarely gets even a hundred words in such books.  Also his train trip through North Wales brought back fond memories of the year I was lucky enough to have spent in Harlech.  But I was a bit miffed that Bryson spent several chapters describing his walk along the Dorset coast, the same space that he devotes to all of the country north of Manchester -- and all that attention to Oxford and just a passing mention of Cambridge!  Like I said, a travel writer can't please all his readers.smount?\\"  Pretty lame. <br /> <br />I particularly enjoyed his descriptions and reminiscences of London (especially the Times strike) and his judicious remarks about the Midlands, an area of the island that rarely gets even a hundred words in such books.  Also his train trip through North Wales brought back fond memories of the year I was lucky enough to have spent in Harlech.  But I was a bit miffed that Bryson spent several chapters describing his walk along the Dorset coast, the same space that he devotes to all of the country north of Manchester -- and all that attention to Oxford and just a passing mention of Cambridge!  Like I said, a travel writer can't please all his readers.	2005-04-02
US	49564918	R1K2E4D2F1DSB9	0156907909	239704235	The Town and the City	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Jack's first	At the risk of making Kerouac roll over a couple of times in his grave, I would describe his first novel as endearing.  There is a certain simplicity, a certain hesitancy in this work that is lacking from his other novels and makes The Town and the City a bit unique from the rest of his output.  It is by no accident that the novel begins in the present tense as the author takes the reader on a guided tour of sorts in and around the town of Galloway: \\"The town is Galloway.  The Merrimac River, broad and placid, flows down to it from the New Hampshire hills ...\\"  Each of the members of the Martin family is introduced in this same immediate way: \\"Francis Martin is always moping and sulking.  Francis is tall and skinny ...\\", etc.  The result of this approach is that Kerouac, not unlike in a play, has essentially given stage directions for the novel, putting flesh to characters and setting the location of the drama which is to come.  And what follows is quite extraordinary for a first novel.<br /><br />Perhaps because Kerouac found it easier to write autobiography from a more objective point of view, he divided himself into what is essentially three different characters: Peter (the character who most resembles the novelist), Joe (the older brother who strikes up a friendship with a Neal Cassady-like character), and Francis (the surviving twin of the saintly Julian who is a scholar, aloof and a loner).  As is indicated by the title, the novel is divided into two major parts: the portion that takes place in Galloway (a very thinly veiled version of Lowell, Massachusetts) and later in New York City.  The \\"town\\" portion of the novel is written with deliberativeness, paying particular attention to detail, and is (as every other reader has remarked) very similar to the style of Thomas Wolfe in Look Homeward Angel.  The \\"city\\" portion, although still indebted to Wolfe, begins to show hints of the Kerouac style which is to come, with a few touches of the stream of conscousness style that would ultimately best describe his writings.<br /><br />Towards the end of the book it appears that Kerouac was wrestling with himself as the need to finish The Town and the City began to conflict with the artistic changes that were occuring within the author.  While he was completing the final editing of The Town and the City, he was already making notes for the work that would come next, On the Road.  The final chapter of Kerouac's first novel describes Peter hitchhiking, \\"traveling the continent westward\\".  It was clear that, to Kerouac, lifestyle and art had become a little bit of the same thing.style that would ultimately best describe his writings. <br /> <br />Towards the end of the book it appears that Kerouac was wrestling with himself as the need to finish The Town and the City began to conflict with the artistic changes that were occuring within the author.  While he was completing the final editing of The Town and the City, he was already making notes for the work that would come next, On the Road.  The final chapter of Kerouac's first novel describes Peter hitchhiking, \\"traveling the continent westward\\".  It was clear that, to Kerouac, lifestyle and art had become a little bit of the same thing.	2005-02-22
US	49564918	R3339Q4R94G254	0451518829	990924494	Sons and Lovers	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Sons and Mothers	This is probably the most autobiographical of Lawrence's novels, dealing with the childhood, adolescence and early adulthood of the author.  It is a brutally frank portrayal of the relationship betweem a domineering mother and the younger (and surviving) son, a relationship that colors every aspect of the protagonist's life, from his relationship with his father to his romantic relationships with two very different women.  Lawrence paints this portrait with very fine brush strokes: an attention to descriptive detail and some of the best characterization in modern English literature.  Although the reader might not like the characters in the novel, there is no doubt that these are real people - especially the mother, Mrs. Morel.  The setting of the novel is the coal fields of Nottingham and Lawrence carries on the work begun by Thomas Hardy in writing of the English working class with realism and detachment, eschewing the English literary tendency to moralize and to judge.<br /><br />When Lawrence began the novel he had only passing knowledge of the theories of Freud regarding the mother-son relationship that became the backbone of the psychologist's Oedipus Complex.  Essentially the author was writing from experience: the psychic bond between Mrs. Morel and her son, Paul, was very similar to the bond shared by Lawrence and his mother.  This bond between son and mother amounts almost to a husband and wife sort of love - without the sex - and prevents the son from ever achieving a fully satisfactory relationship with another woman because of the hold the mother has on the son's soul.  It is not until the mother is dead that the son is able to begin to free himself from her hold.  The novel, then, is the story of that struggle.<br /><br />I have never been a great fan of Lawrence's literary style, finding it a bit too jerky and over edited - a criticism I find with this novel.  True, there are passages of poetic beauty (especially some of the descriptions of the Nottinghamshire countryside) but I found the prose a bit too tedious and lacking spontaneity.  This is probably Lawrence's best novel (far superior to the more popular Lady Chatterley's Lover) and the one on which his reputation is firmly based; also, a novel that should be read by every mother and every son.tinghamshire countryside) but I found the prose a bit too tedious and lacking spontaneity.  This is probably Lawrence's best novel (far superior to the more popular Lady Chatterley's Lover) and the one on which his reputation is firmly based; also, a novel that should be read by every mother and every son.	2004-12-24
US	49564918	R2KU7YNSWBFKLV	0618056831	891370860	The Big Money: Volume Three of the U.S.A. Trilogy	Books	3	4	6	N	N	The whole is more than the sum of its parts	The first three decades of the twentieth century in the United States were pivotal in defining what, eventually, the nation would become.  At the turn of the century the country was just beginning to find its feet on the world geopolitical scene, ceding power to the colonial powers of Europe but maintaining a dogged independence.  A mere thirty years later the United States had not only risen to share world power but dared become a leader on the world stage as the country's wealth, ingenuity, and exportable culture transformed this former isolated nation.  This transformation was not lost on John Dos Passos; neither was the importance of history in defining those qualities that became amalgamated and distilled into what is commonly known as national character.<br /><br />To underscore the importance of these three decades, Dos Passos spent over six years in researching and writing what was to become his materpiece, The USA Trilogy.  In these three novels, the author experimented with various narrative techniques combining traditonal story telling; stream of consciousness writing (The Camera Eye sections); biographies of important contemporary persons; clippings from newspapers; snatches of popular songs; advertisements, etc., that created a well definied historical foundation for the events and characters of his novels.  Overall, the author was successful in his effort: seldom has history been so well understood by a writer of fiction.  The reader not only shares the lives of Dos Passsos' characters but is fully immersed in the politics, culture and economic upheavals of those eras.<br /><br />Seen as a whole, the trilogy is powerful; however, when the three novels are examined separately as individual works, weaknesses that were camouflaged by the success of the overall scheme are made manifest.  The Big Money is the last and worst of the three parts.  It seems that the author began to weary as he reached the end of his effort.  Dos Passos spends less attention to the Camera Eye sections and biographies (by far, the best two areas of the trilogy) and spends the majority of his attention on developing and bringing to a conclusion the lives of his characters, some of whom have been present in every novel of the trilogy.  His attempts at characterization were not successful and his characters come across as wooden caricatures, blindly following the plot from one episode to another, never giving any insight into what motivates them (with the possible exception of the pathetic Mary French).  The reader just doesn't care for or about them.  Also, perhaps Dos Passos was going through a sort of political catharsis himself and perhaps this added to the malaise and hastiness that is evident in this final novel.  The darling of the American left would eventually become an avid backer of Barry Goldwater for President in 1964.  Four stars for the trilogy, three stars for The Big Money.to the Camera Eye sections and biographies (by far, the best two areas of the trilogy) and spends the majority of his attention on developing and bringing to a conclusion the lives of his characters, some of whom have been present in every novel of the trilogy.  His attempts at characterization were not successful and his characters come across as wooden caricatures, blindly following the plot from one episode to another, never giving any insight into what motivates them (with the possible exception of the pathetic Mary French).  The reader just doesn't care for or about them.  Also, perhaps Dos Passos was going through a sort of political catharsis himself and perhaps this added to the malaise and hastiness that is evident in this final novel.  The darling of the American left would eventually become an avid backer of Barry Goldwater for President in 1964.  Four stars for the trilogy, three stars for The Big Money.	2004-11-29
US	49564918	RIKQFOQI7JPMM	0679732187	864447420	Absalom, Absalom! The Corrected Text	Books	5	15	19	N	N	The Sins of the Father	The legacy of slavery is shared by all Americans, but it is among American Southerners that this sin and its place in American history is most intensely felt.  One need only to have been born or raised in the South to have this legacy reinforced almost on a daily basis:  the statue of the Confederate soldier in the squares of most Southern towns and cities, the remnants of the plantation system still visible in some parts of the South (and now tourist attractions), and most importantly, the descendants of those slaves who still live and work in the region that once legitimized (both economically and morally) the bondange of their ancestors.<br /><br />To William Faulkner, living in 1930s Mississippi these signs of the past must have been much more intense than they are today and displayed an immediacy that can hardly be understood now.  Surely, he must have known Confederate veterans as he was growing up and the history of the ante-bellum South and the war that brought it down was still fresh in the mind.  It was with this background that he began writing his masterpiece.  Faulkner had dealt with slavery and its aftermath in earlier works (Sound and the Fury and Light in August) but treatd the subject obliquely paying more attention to the malaise that afflicted his characters rather than to the source of that malaise.  With this novel he is concerned with the cause.<br /><br />To put it simply, this is his best work and probably one of the top three American novels ever written.  It is a complex creation intermingling multi-character monologues with some of his most beautiful steam of consciousness prose; it is difficult and obtuse; it is undeniably brilliant and beautiful; and it's relevance is universal.  Although the pivotal location of the novel is the north woods of Mississippi, it is applicable to any location where denial of humanity and the integrity of the individual is commonplace, whether this denial be based on religion, race, or on some artificially constructed idea (such as fear) where the intent is to divide rather than to unite.  Come to think of it, given the political realities of the time, this book should be required reading.y constructed idea (such as fear) where the intent is to divide rather than to unite.  Come to think of it, given the political realities of the time, this book should be required reading.	2004-08-27
US	49564918	RE56CGC2QCBI6	0375753206	12564777	The Age of Innocence (Modern Library 100 Best Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Totem and taboo in old New York.	The reading public must have been taken by shock when, in 1920, Wharton published this novel.  Written off by most of the critics and audience of her time as having her best literary years far behind her, she produced what is arguably her most important work.  Her story of New York City in the 1870s, where family name and propriety counted as much as accumulated wealth, resonated with readers who were just beginning to catch hints of the looming social revolution that would come later in the decade - and once again shatter time tested institutions.  Wharton's looking back to the time of her youth (she was 57 when the book was published) is neither too sentimental nor too critical, but simply a fond remembrance of the time and place in which she lived and, like Madame Olenska, eventually escaped.<br />However, it is not with Madame Olenska but with Newland Archer that Wharton is closest associated.  Belonging to similar social castes, both the author and Newland are able to see the foibles in their social milieu but in no way are ready to discard it totally.  Whereas, in the end, both are ready to follow their individual paths from Old New York they are fully aware of what is expected of them as members of this society, and act accordingly.  This is the central theme of the novel: individual desire vs. collective propriety.  In the hands of a lesser author, this conflict could have resulted in a quite heavy and didactic work - and as interesting as an evening at a needlepoint demonstration.  By clothing her novel in the time tested mantle of a love story, she is given rein to employ her talents to the fullest.  In short, she re-creates the New York City of the 1870s and peoples it with characters that seem to be historical, not just based on historical models.  The characters of Madame Olenska, Newland, May Welland and, especially, Mrs. Manson Mingott are wonderfully drawn and never become stereotyped nor trivialized; in fact, they are so lifelike that the reader (as if knowing them for years) is able to anticipate their thought patterns and actions.  And of course, there is the city itself - before the Holland Tunnel, Grand Central Station, subways and telephone, where 39th Street was considered the hinterland.  Wharton treats the city with affection as well as with the critical eye of the archaeologist attempting to reconstruct some long past civilization.<br />Especially fine is the final chapter in which Wharton (in less than twenty pages) summarizes the life of Newland from the time of his parting with Madame Olenska to his life in early twentieth century New York.  The economy of her prose in this final chapter combined with her justaposition of sentimental reflection and historical fact are first rate.  Particularly moving is the final scene in which the reader leaves Newland sitting on a bench outside of Madame Olenska's apartment in Paris unable (and unwilling) to abrogate both his loyalty to his now deceased wife, May, nor the unrequited love that he still has for Madame Olenska.if knowing them for years) is able to anticipate their thought patterns and actions.  And of course, there is the city itself - before the Holland Tunnel, Grand Central Station, subways and telephone, where 39th Street was considered the hinterland.  Wharton treats the city with affection as well as with the critical eye of the archaeologist attempting to reconstruct some long past civilization.<br />Especially fine is the final chapter in which Wharton (in less than twenty pages) summarizes the life of Newland from the time of his parting with Madame Olenska to his life in early twentieth century New York.  The economy of her prose in this final chapter combined with her justaposition of sentimental reflection and historical fact are first rate.  Particularly moving is the final scene in which the reader leaves Newland sitting on a bench outside of Madame Olenska's apartment in Paris unable (and unwilling) to abrogate both his loyalty to his now deceased wife, May, nor the unrequited love that he still has for Madame Olenska.	2004-07-08
US	49564918	R2UPYHCDBOFSAG	0679723439	902786352	Despair	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The first of Nabokov's masterpieces.	This novel was first published, in Russian, in 1936 and first translated into English in 1937.  When Nabokov prepared the novel for re-publication in 1965, he not only spruced up the translation but extensively revised the text.  And although I cannot personally atest to the differences (since I cannot read Russian and do not have access to the earlier translation) between the various editions, it is not difficult to surmise that this later edition must be superior.  After all, Nabokov had written The Gift, Lolita and Pale Fire before revising this edition and the literary lessons learned from those novels are incorporated here.  This novel reads as if it were one of Nabokov's later works.  But before too much emphasis is placed on the revision and all of its pluses, it has to be remembered that it was the original work that served as the seed for Nabokov's revision.  With the creation of Hermann, Nabokov created his first major character and traces of this character can be seen in the later creations of Humbert Humbert and Kinbote.<br />The plot is not particularly original, a fact not lost on Nabokov who makes playful allusions to works of Dostoyevski (who is referred to as &quot;Old Dusty&quot;), particularly Crime and Punishment and The Double; as well as the fact that the theme of egotistic perception and self-delusion had already been treated by Nabokov in an earlier novel, The Eye.  But in this work the author seems to be really enjoying himself as he sardonically pulls the strings on his marionette-like characters.  There is Hermann, the dissatisfied chocolate manufacturer and aspiring author; his croquet ball-shaped wife, Lydia; her cousin, the down and out and hackneyed artist, Ardalion; and Hermann's &quot;double&quot;, Felix.  In this tale of crime as art, Nabokov has a bit of fun discoursing on the nature of art as made manifest by Hermann and Ardalion.  Hermann sees himself as the omniscient artist-observer, superior to those about him, and able to create art even when plotting a murder.  Ardalion is seen as a mediocre artist, painting still lifes and portraits, living off the charity of others and earning the constant derision of Hermann.  However, Nabokov twists these various character traits into pretzel shapes as the all seeing Hermann cannot see that Ardalion has been carrying on a long time affair with his wife and that the hackneyed artist, Ardalion, exhibits more sense of human compassion (ingredients of the true artist) than Hermann (who seems himself as the true artist) could hope to possess.<br />Nabokov is the stylistic master of modern English prose and his command of language in this novel, like all his works, is brilliant.  In the past, many of Nabokov's characters are shade-like personages that flit across the pages of his books without leaving much trace of themselves, essentially playing second fiddle to his brilliant writing style.  With the creation of Hermann, the first of a series of brilliantly conceived protagonists, it is obvious that Nabokov has made the leap from being primarily a prose stylist to a mature and brilliant novelist.ate art even when plotting a murder.  Ardalion is seen as a mediocre artist, painting still lifes and portraits, living off the charity of others and earning the constant derision of Hermann.  However, Nabokov twists these various character traits into pretzel shapes as the all seeing Hermann cannot see that Ardalion has been carrying on a long time affair with his wife and that the hackneyed artist, Ardalion, exhibits more sense of human compassion (ingredients of the true artist) than Hermann (who seems himself as the true artist) could hope to possess.<br />Nabokov is the stylistic master of modern English prose and his command of language in this novel, like all his works, is brilliant.  In the past, many of Nabokov's characters are shade-like personages that flit across the pages of his books without leaving much trace of themselves, essentially playing second fiddle to his brilliant writing style.  With the creation of Hermann, the first of a series of brilliantly conceived protagonists, it is obvious that Nabokov has made the leap from being primarily a prose stylist to a mature and brilliant novelist.	2004-05-12
US	49564918	R2A75F9OY8OJ4A	0684853906	213230457	Terms of Endearment: A Novel	Books	1	16	24	N	N	The &quot;Houston Trilogy&quot; happily comes to an end.	Every novelist of note has at least one work that represents the low mark in that author's career.  With Larry McMurtry, I thought that novel was &quot;Moving On&quot;, a lumbering work of uninteresting characters, rediculous plot lines and a writing style that could only be described as sophomoric.  Then McMurtry decided to re-visit some of the characters of that earlier novel, throw in a few more from &quot;All My Friends Are Going to be Strangers&quot; and complete his so-called &quot;Houston Trilogy&quot;.  You would think that with the tepid results of the first two novels he would have given up on his idea and returned to the area that he can really write about: the vanishing frontier.  But no, he had to finish his trilogy.  In his preface to the book (an act of unmitigated audaciousness, by the way; as if the novel deserved a preface and as if the women characters created here could somehow be in the same league as Emma Bovary or Anna Karenina), McMurtry remarked that the novel was about the dilemma in which many women find themselves: stuck with a boring husband who happens to be a pretty good father.  He questions, &quot;Emma might with luck find a better husband than Flap, but can she realistically expect to better him as a father?  Is anyone apt to love the kids as much as he does?&quot;  Only if he had written about that dilemma.  On second thought, that dilemma never existed in the first place because Flap is not a good father and spends as much time away from home as he does with the family.<br />Instead the reader is &quot;treated&quot; to the story of an aging widow, Aurora Greenway, and her equally aging suitors and the activities that surround her vapid existence in 1960s Houston.  Her daughter, Emma, occupies a secondary role in this portion of the novel and the action moves from dinner party to forays into the Houston suburbs, from one uninteresting character to the next, from the improbability of a millionaire who lives on the top level of a parking structure to a hastily concocted murder attempt - all I guess to try to maintain the reader's, as well as the author's, interest.  But all this meaningless writing in search of a plot finally forces McMurtry to make a decision: either change course or follow Aurora's story until the author, himself, drops dead.  So after 360 pages of a 410 page book, the story suddenly shifts to Emma and her pathetic life: infidelity, neurotic children, and finally cancer - all this, by the way, in fifty pages.<br />What amazes me is that James L. Brooks, the director and screenwriter of the movie, could have read this book and even considered making a film based on it.  What he created, which is a testament to what good screen writing is all about, not only elevates McMurtry's novel from the humdrum but centers on the dilemma that the novel's author chose not to pursue.  The scenes between the principal characters are often electric, capturing the anger, frustration, and love between wife, mother and husband, something that McMurtry only managed to duplicate only once or twice in the novel.  One more point of irritation: the seduction scene between Danny Deck and Emma is taken almost word for word from &quot;All My Friends Are Going to be Strangers&quot;, something akin to a college freshman composition student quoting himself in a term paper.king structure to a hastily concocted murder attempt - all I guess to try to maintain the reader's, as well as the author's, interest.  But all this meaningless writing in search of a plot finally forces McMurtry to make a decision: either change course or follow Aurora's story until the author, himself, drops dead.  So after 360 pages of a 410 page book, the story suddenly shifts to Emma and her pathetic life: infidelity, neurotic children, and finally cancer - all this, by the way, in fifty pages.<br />What amazes me is that James L. Brooks, the director and screenwriter of the movie, could have read this book and even considered making a film based on it.  What he created, which is a testament to what good screen writing is all about, not only elevates McMurtry's novel from the humdrum but centers on the dilemma that the novel's author chose not to pursue.  The scenes between the principal characters are often electric, capturing the anger, frustration, and love between wife, mother and husband, something that McMurtry only managed to duplicate only once or twice in the novel.  One more point of irritation: the seduction scene between Danny Deck and Emma is taken almost word for word from &quot;All My Friends Are Going to be Strangers&quot;, something akin to a college freshman composition student quoting himself in a term paper.	2004-04-04
US	49564918	R3PY38E1H0YLGA	0679424768	715428078	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 6: Time Regained, A Guide to Proust (v. 6)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	&quot;Life can be realised within the confines of a book&quot;-Proust	The melancholy atmosphere that pervaded the close of The Fugitive is carried over into this final part of Proust's huge work.  Whereas, in the preceding part, Marcel laments the loss of Albertine and his changed relationship with his long time friend, Saint Loup, the author's concerns are now much greater.  France is in the midst of World War I, Paris experiencing night time air raids; and the distinction between the Guermantes' Way and Swann's Way has become even more blurred as both Gilberte, the daughter of a courtesan, and Mme. Verdurin, the insufferable salon hostess, have become members of the mystic Guermantes family.  Furthermore, Saint Loup is killed in action and Marcel's hometown is occupied by the Germans.  But in spite of the gravity of the events surrounding him, Marcel becomes even more self-absorbed.  He still holds onto his drean of becoming a writer, but this desire begins to wane as he becomes convinced that he has neither the temperament, the knowledge nor the fortitude to follow a literary career.  Then the pivotal event of the whole novel takes place: he is invited to a matinee at the new home of the Prince de Guermantes.<br />While waiting in an anteroom for admission to the Guermantes' reception, the author is beset by a series of sensory experiences that bring back several happy memories from his past.  These recollections, both powerful and joyous, convince him that he has the ability to undertake a literary career, to be able to communicate those ecstatic moments from the past to readers of the present day.  His melancholy lifted, he enters the reception to discover that his recent epiphany is only bolstered by what he finds.  All around him are the decaying remnants of a fast fading aristocracy.  Many of the characters that have been introduced to the reader throughout the course of the novel are met again, but now in the final years of their lives: the proud Charlus, now an obsequious old man; the Duc de Guermantes, described as a &quot;magnificent ruin&quot;; Gilberte, now confused with her aging mother; even Marcel becomes aware that he, too, is quickly getting old.  But now seeing things with an artist's eye, Marcel becomes aware that each of these characters, as well as all those people remembered from his life, are &quot;like giants plunged into the years, [touching] the distant epochs through which they have lived, between which so many days have come to range themeselves - in Time.&quot;  Marcel's goal is clear.  He will spend the rest of his life carefully bringing these giants back to life.  In other words, he is ready to embark on the huge task of writing the book that the reader has just finished reading.<br />This part of the novel was published five years after the author's death and suffers from a lack of editing.  There are many ellipses, contradictions, and time and place juxtapostion mistakes, errors that Proust would surely have tidied up if he had lived to see his work published in full.  But these are paltry criticisms wthen compared to the brilliance of the total work.  Unfortunately, Proust is little read these days, and many of those who attempt to read the novel are motivated by the challenge of a literary marathon more than from an awareness of the intrinsic value of the work (as I was).  But regardless of the motivation, the effort (and it is an effort) is totally rewarding as the reader sees in Proust's world reflections of his own.  It took me a part of seven years to read the complete novel, a period of time in which Proust's search for lost time and my own reminiscences often became linked together as the author's characters shared my own thoughts regarding things past, the specious present, and the eventual fate that awaits us all.<br />Kilmartin's A Guide to Proust, which is included in this volume is well worth the price of the book by itself.  The guide consists of four distinct inexes to Proust's novel: characters, historical persons, places and themes.  The scholarship that went into compliling these indexes is outstanding and makes it possible for the reader to spend several years (if he so wishes) in working his way through the novel without losing track of the hundreds of characters and personages included therein.  One reviewer remarked, &quot;buy this volume first&quot;; I would only modify this advice by suggesting that the prospective reader get this volume when he purchases Swann's Way.arship that went into compliling these indexes is outstanding and makes it possible for the reader to spend several years (if he so wishes) in working his way through the novel without losing track of the hundreds of characters and personages included therein.  One reviewer remarked, &quot;buy this volume first&quot;; I would only modify this advice by suggesting that the prospective reader get this volume when he purchases Swann's Way.	2003-07-23
US	49564918	R2J9QHCYBJJIBD	0345367421	648212641	The Water-Method Man	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The World According to Bogus	It would seem that John Irving has always been a self-assured author. His first novel, Setting Free the Bears, is a very unlikely \\"first\\" work. It is a very complex work, with a narrative that interweaves the Austrian Anschluss, Balkan partisan politics, war, love, \\"Easy Rider\\" romanticism and the freeing of the animals from Vienna's Hietzinger Zoo. Hardly the stuff expected from a \\"new\\" writer. And although Irving was quite successful in handling the complexities of his narrative, the novel suffered because of weak character development. The characters of this first novel never came to life; in fact, it was all too easy to confuse the various characters because they resembled one another so much. In this novel, Irving took the narrative lessons learned from his first novel and set about to create a more complete work, one in which the readers would remember the characters as much as the masterful narrative techniques. With Fred \\"Bogus\\" Trumper, Irving succeeded in creating the first of the unforgettable characters who would populate all his later novels.<br />The novel involves the life of one Bogus Trumper as he sets about trying to make a life for himself amidst uncontrollable chaos, disappointment, and the pain and agony caused by an abnormally narrow urethra. While his narrow urethra can be attributed to genetics, the other hurdles that he confronts are more or less of his own making which gives Irving license to hone his ironic and satirical gifts. Generally inept in his dealings with his family, friends and life's other complexities, Bogus has a gift for languages and uses this gift to extend his studenthood into the labryrinth of graduate school. Never has the life of a graduate student been so accurately portrayed (compare this novel with Larry McMurtry's failed attempt in his Moving On) revealing the frustration, humor and general penury that is so common to that bewildered group. But Bogus, in spite of his faults, is lovable and has a loyal group of friends who try to help him along. His childhood friend, Couth; the Bohemian diabetic, Merrill Overturf; his first wife, Biggie; his second wife, Tulpen; and the independent film director, Ralph Packer, are all developed nicely and lend their own personalities to the novel.<br />In many ways, this book could be considered Irving's \\"happy\\" novel. Those readers who read this book after reading some of Irving's other works will notice the absence of the indiscriminate violence (the violence in this novel is limited to Bogus' PhD dissertation, the translation from the Old Low Norse of the saga of Akthelt and Gunnel) that confronts many of his characters in his other novels; those characters so lovingly developed then abruptly snatched away by the author. And while the ending to The Water-Method Man might be considered to be too nicely rapped up, a little too conveniently summed up, there is an element of that old Irving fatalism that creeps in and reminds the reader that universal forces, be it the Under Toad or the gods being gratulated by the Feast of Throgsgafen Day, are really in control.ds who try to help him along. His childhood friend, Couth; the Bohemian diabetic, Merrill Overturf; his first wife, Biggie; his second wife, Tulpen; and the independent film director, Ralph Packer, are all developed nicely and lend their own personalities to the novel.<br />In many ways, this book could be considered Irving's \\"happy\\" novel. Those readers who read this book after reading some of Irving's other works will notice the absence of the indiscriminate violence (the violence in this novel is limited to Bogus' PhD dissertation, the translation from the Old Low Norse of the saga of Akthelt and Gunnel) that confronts many of his characters in his other novels; those characters so lovingly developed then abruptly snatched away by the author. And while the ending to The Water-Method Man might be considered to be too nicely rapped up, a little too conveniently summed up, there is an element of that old Irving fatalism that creeps in and reminds the reader that universal forces, be it the Under Toad or the gods being gratulated by the Feast of Throgsgafen Day, are really in control.	2003-05-09
US	49564918	R32MFDC2BVMVNA	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	17	18	N	N	&quot;What a mess we have made of our golden age&quot;	Along with &quot;Uncle Tom's Cabin&quot; and &quot;Nineteen Eighty-Four&quot;, this novel is held up by some as one of the most important literary works in galvanizing public opinion against a social or political system.  But whereas there is little doubt as to the intent of the first two novels, I think that Koestler's work cannot be so easily pigeon holed.  When Koestler wrote this novel he had not yet reached that stage in his life when he was stridently anti-communist (some would argue anti-everything) and still held the architects of the Russian Revolution in high esteem.  It is one of those books that can preach differing and conflicting sermons. Thus readers from the political right see the novel as an indictment against what they see as the inherent dehumanizing and brutalizing aspects of the communist system; while readers from the left see the novel as an indictment against the abrogation of freedoms and the abuse of political power by any political system, be it communism, fascism, or Bushocracy.  In other words, any political system that appends a system of logic to a diaphanously perceived righeousness.  Unfortunately for both sets of readers, the literary value of the book is usually overlooked in favor of a particular political viewpoint.<br />The novel is set during the Moscow Trials of the 1930s in which Stalin systematically eliminated all opposition to his power.  That this liquidation ended the lives of most of the remaining Bolsheviks of the 1917 Revolution is one of the great political ironies of history.  The main character of the novel, Rubashov, represents one of the old guard, a party member whose intellectualizing of political history has no place in the new Soviet world of collectivism and one man rule.  From the time the cell door slams behind Rubashov until the &quot;smashing blow&quot; ends his life, the action of the novel centers around Rubashov's internal fight between his loyalty to the ideals of 1917 and the encroachment of the &quot;grammatical fiction&quot; which forces him to consider things more subjectively.  One would hardly think that this conflict could possibly be turned into a novel that could hold the reader's attention.  But this is exactly what Koestler has done.  The novel maintains a sense of tension throughout, and gives the reader a sample of some of the realities that constitute political imprisonment.  There are unforgettable characters and scenes in the book: Rubashov's old friend, Ivanov, who now tries to get Rubashov to make public &quot;his former errors&quot;; the cool and ruthless Gletkin, and Rubashov's faceless and nameless neighbor with whom he carries on conversations by tapping out messages.  While suffering through his imprisonment and the psychological torture that is inflicted on him, Rubashov has ample time to rethink his own poltical career, back to a time when he was able to inflict his own brand of logical expediency on both his friends and the innocent.<br />Some readers without the requisite knowledge of Russian history might be confused by some of the extended conversations in the book that deal with the Revolution and other arcane issues of poltical theory that take place between Rubashov and his interrogators.  But confusion can be remedied by some outside reading, and a little perseverance on the reader's part will be rewarded with an unforgettable journey into one man's mind as he does battle with history, with totalitarian henchmen and,more importantly, with himself.quot;grammatical fiction&quot; which forces him to consider things more subjectively.  One would hardly think that this conflict could possibly be turned into a novel that could hold the reader's attention.  But this is exactly what Koestler has done.  The novel maintains a sense of tension throughout, and gives the reader a sample of some of the realities that constitute political imprisonment.  There are unforgettable characters and scenes in the book: Rubashov's old friend, Ivanov, who now tries to get Rubashov to make public &quot;his former errors&quot;; the cool and ruthless Gletkin, and Rubashov's faceless and nameless neighbor with whom he carries on conversations by tapping out messages.  While suffering through his imprisonment and the psychological torture that is inflicted on him, Rubashov has ample time to rethink his own poltical career, back to a time when he was able to inflict his own brand of logical expediency on both his friends and the innocent.  <br />Some readers without the requisite knowledge of Russian history might be confused by some of the extended conversations in the book that deal with the Revolution and other arcane issues of poltical theory that take place between Rubashov and his interrogators.  But confusion can be remedied by some outside reading, and a little perseverance on the reader's part will be rewarded with an unforgettable journey into one man's mind as he does battle with history, with totalitarian henchmen and,more importantly, with himself.	2003-04-02
US	49564918	R2QU8AJ52RMVN8	0140156046	937703555	Libra (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scales out of balance	Prior to 9/11, the assasination of President John F. Kennedy was the most public of American tragedies.  Regardless of an individual's personal feeling toward the President, that person was emotionally drawn into the assasination by television and the other mass media.  It might be argued that this event shaped the face of televison journalism for decades to come.  The story had everything: drama, tragedy, conspiracy theories and the live televised murder of Lee Harvey Oswald.  Few of us who were alive on that fateful day in Dallas cannot remember what he or she was doing at the exact moment the news was first heard.<br />That Don DeLillo decided to treat the event in a \\"fictionalized\\" manner gave him great latitude to combine well documented facts with the novelist's own creative talents.  The result is absolutely brilliant.  Although DeLillo centers his narrative around Oswald, he uses real and invented characters to give his book the feel of a novel while at the same time the immediacy of journalistic reporting.  Although the reader is well aware of what is to come, DeLillo builds up the suspence by his masterful manipulation of time.  He interweaves chapters that deal with Oswald's early life with chapters that are in \\"present\\" time as well as with chapters dealing with the period immediately preceeding the assasination.  As the reader moves through the book, Oswald and the plotters all move inexorably toward that day on which their fortunes were to meet.  By the time of this meeting DeLillo has so developed each of the characters to a point that their actions and the scenario that the author presents are completly believable.  Particularly impressive is the way the author developed some of the subsidiary characters such as the disaffected Cuban, Raymo; Oswald's mother, Marguerite; and the G. Gordon Liddy clone, Mackey.  The testimony of Marguerite before the Warren Commission is one of the most riveting pieces of monologue I have read, completely defining the speaker's character and all her misconceptions, tenderness, and cunningness.<br />Thankfully, DeLillo avoids falling into the conspiracy theory trap and he neither preaches a particular point of view nor uses the hindsight of history to draw conclusions from events which followed the assasination (as did Oliver Stone).  That there are among us \\"men in small rooms\\" who deliriously inflate their own importance and who by a single act of violence can insure their place in history is all too real.  DeLillo sees it as his task not to try to \\"furnish factual answers\\", but only to \\"fill some of the blank spaces in the know record\\" so that these misguided individuals might be better understood.  He has succeeded in his task.peaker's character and all her misconceptions, tenderness, and cunningness.<br />Thankfully, DeLillo avoids falling into the conspiracy theory trap and he neither preaches a particular point of view nor uses the hindsight of history to draw conclusions from events which followed the assasination (as did Oliver Stone).  That there are among us \\"men in small rooms\\" who deliriously inflate their own importance and who by a single act of violence can insure their place in history is all too real.  DeLillo sees it as his task not to try to \\"furnish factual answers\\", but only to \\"fill some of the blank spaces in the know record\\" so that these misguided individuals might be better understood.  He has succeeded in his task.	2003-03-21
US	49564918	R35JEL3Y75MLSX	0380797631	556400278	Last Days of Summer	Books	4	10	12	N	N	Smokes! I wish Kluger would have left out the fantasy.	I have always been a sucker for \\"coming of age\\" stories, even those in which the main character and I have little in common. Although I am not Jewish and have never lived in Brooklyn, I saw many similarities between my own adolescence and that of the main character, Joey Margolis: an absent father, feelings of vulnerability and all the other chaotic feelings common to any thirteen year old boy. And then there was baseball. Sometimes I think that those turbulent years were measured out by box scores and radio broadcasts of summer afternoon games. The author is well aware of the importance of the game to 1940s America and weaves in just enough baseball to give his story a good realistic foundation.<br />Charlie Banks is the up and coming star of the New York Giants, and the kind of person that offers Joey the model of the perfect hero. But whereas most boys would be satisfied with a simple autograph or photo, Joey wants Charlie to become his friend. Kluger is very successful in developing this friendship. Joey is shown as a confused and vulnerable kid who is dealing with the perils of growing up, and Charlie as a somewhat surly and reluctant hero who is running from his own demons. Joey uses every trick in the book to get what he wants and the friendship that comes out of a simple exchange of letters is completely believable. However, after Joey and Charlie become friends, the book becomes obsessed with the totally unbelievable antics of a thirteen year old. Joey sings with a broadway star, dances with Eleanor Roosevelt, sneaks across country in an army convoy, plays with Louis Armstrong, and hobnobs with Hollywood stars; greatly damaging, I think the feeling of reality that the author so painstakingly developed. When I made this remark to my surrogate son in Phoenix, he replied: \\"Hey, it's fiction!\\" True, but there is a point where fiction turns to fantasy and the latter part of the book unfortunately borders on the fantastic.<br />Much has been made about the epistolary nature of the novel, and while the style is not completely original (Ring Lardner did essentially the same thing in 1914), Kluger uses this technique to create an emotionally satisfying reading experience. Counterbalancing Kluger's fits of fantasy are episodes in the novel that, without using traditonal narrative description, create characters that are absolutely believable, especially some of the secondary characters. I thought the exchange of letters between Charlie and \\"Rabby\\" Lieberman was brilliant and the two characters thus described were more lifelike than any six page narrative description could have achieved. Although I don't share the extraordinary high opinion of this novel that other reveiwers have, I did enjoy the book and think it made perfectly clear one major point: that true friendship can occur even between persons of considerable age difference.lary nature of the novel, and while the style is not completely original (Ring Lardner did essentially the same thing in 1914), Kluger uses this technique to create an emotionally satisfying reading experience. Counterbalancing Kluger's fits of fantasy are episodes in the novel that, without using traditonal narrative description, create characters that are absolutely believable, especially some of the secondary characters. I thought the exchange of letters between Charlie and \\"Rabby\\" Lieberman was brilliant and the two characters thus described were more lifelike than any six page narrative description could have achieved. Although I don't share the extraordinary high opinion of this novel that other reveiwers have, I did enjoy the book and think it made perfectly clear one major point: that true friendship can occur even between persons of considerable age difference.	2003-02-03
US	49564918	RNN1WYS3L6OWX	0394747410	202685356	Pylon: The Corrected Text	Books	3	14	16	N	N	The Lovesong of W. C. Faulkner	The financial success that Faulkner realized with the publication of \\"Sanctuary\\" made one thing very clear to the author: sex and violence would sell many books.  And when in 1935, as he was at work on his monumental novel, \\"Absalom, Absalom,\\" and needed a break from the complexities of that novel, he turned to pruriency once again in the hopes of making a few more easy dollars.  But while many other authors would have fallen back on a tried and proven type of novel, Faulkner took his art to new areas.  The novel is not set in Yoknapatawpha County, but in New Orleans (New Valois in the novel) and does not concern the interwoven family of characters that he had developed over the years, but a group of barnstorming aviators who follow the air race circuit across the country.  There is the foolhardy pilot, his wife, a parachute jumper and a child who might be the issue of either man.  That this menage a trois is carried out in the open and with the full complicity of all three members fascinates the newspaper reporter who is assigned to cover the air meet.<br />No doubt this is great stuff for the making of a sensational novel.  But once again Faulkner fools his readers.  While it is true that the novel has the tone of many of the contemporary crime novels of his day, Faulkner throws in enough Joycean word play, obscure symbolism, and obtuse prose to make it clear that, even when trying to make a buck, the author is playing by his own rules.  The influence of T.S. Eliot is everywhere and there are obvious references to Eliot's \\"The Hollow Men,\\" \\"The Waste Land\\" and \\"The Lovesong of J. Alfred Prufrock\\" (one of the novel's chapters bears this title).  Balanced against the literary experiments with which Faulkner was playing is a narrative that is full of excitement and sexual tension, including what surely is the first description of a \\"Mile High Club\\" encounter in literature.<br />This is a dark and pessimistic novel, one that looks at the uncertainty of American society created by the dehumanizing effects of the machine age.  Character development is kept to a minimum and the reader never gets to know any of the characters very well.  They are all, like Eliot's poem, merely hollow men adrift in an indifferent world.  To enhance the general tone of malaise that permeates the novel, Faulkner sets the action during the hedonistic celebrations of Mardi Gras and the effect is startling as the reader is submerged in an atmosphere of drunkenness, aimlessness, sexual obsession, and death.  But no matter how inventive the narrative style or how powerful some of the passages, the novel does not match up to Faulkner's mature fiction and is more a curiosity piece than anything else - a harrowing respite of sorts before the publication of \\"Absalom, Absalom.\\"y created by the dehumanizing effects of the machine age.  Character development is kept to a minimum and the reader never gets to know any of the characters very well.  They are all, like Eliot's poem, merely hollow men adrift in an indifferent world.  To enhance the general tone of malaise that permeates the novel, Faulkner sets the action during the hedonistic celebrations of Mardi Gras and the effect is startling as the reader is submerged in an atmosphere of drunkenness, aimlessness, sexual obsession, and death.  But no matter how inventive the narrative style or how powerful some of the passages, the novel does not match up to Faulkner's mature fiction and is more a curiosity piece than anything else - a harrowing respite of sorts before the publication of \\"Absalom, Absalom.\\"	2003-01-02
US	49564918	R37BHY73ECCMTO	0613173619	841170407	Magnificent Ambersons (Modern Library)	Books	4	126	131	N	N	White gloves and riffraff	I hate to admit it, but if this novel had not been included in the Modern Library's Top 100, I probably would have never picked it up.  I have never been a fan of socially conscious literature, and I anticipated a novel in the style of William Dean Howells - full of cardboard characters, most of whom would be down trodden and hopeless, or rich and ruthless, and enough moral pronouncements to make me feel guilty for at least a day or two.  Thankfully, I let the Modern Library editors convince me that the book was worth reading.<br />The novel is set during the dawning of the twentieth century and concerns itself with the impact of mechanical innovation on the bucolic life styles of a midwestern town.  As the novel opens, the gulf between prominent families and their aristocratic lives are contrasted with those in society whose main purpose it is to support this luxurious and frivolous existence.  The aristocracy is personified by the Amberson family, wealthy and prominent, and particularly by George Amberson Minafer, the spoiled grandson of the family's founder.  He is unable to understand that a great revolution is taking place around him, that the lifestyle he has always known is soon to become anachronistic as those people with talent, luck and a little capital will soon surpass him in wealth and prestige.  Although he has the talent to join this new mechanical age, he prefers to be and to remain a gentleman and to believe that \\"being things\\" is far superior to \\"doing things.\\"<br />As the midwestern town grows and expands and becomes more and more industrial, and even as the Amberson family compound becomes surrounded by apartment buildings and factories, George is unable to accept the fact that he and his family are becoming irrelevant.  As the town quickly turns into a dirty and depressing city and the Amberson fortune begins to crumble, he still dresses for dinner, still drives a horse and cart, and still holds to his standards \\"as a gentleman.\\"  Tarkington weaves in subplots involving the love story of George's widowed mother and the Henry Ford-like Eugene Morgan as well as George's own romantic involvement with Morgan's daughter.  These stories add a subtle ironic twist to the narrative as well as allowing the author to delve deeper into the consciouness of his spoiled (but sympathetic) antagonist.<br />Although there is some of Howells influence in this book, Tarkington does not succumb to the artistic sterility of his mentor.  This author is able to tell an interesting story and to develop characters that are not only realistic, but invoke an emotional response from the reader.  And although the ending seems to me a little contrived and more in keeping with some of the \\"realist\\" writers of the early twentieth century, Tarkington's novel is, in the end, successful and offers an enjoyable reading experience.ves in subplots involving the love story of George's widowed mother and the Henry Ford-like Eugene Morgan as well as George's own romantic involvement with Morgan's daughter.  These stories add a subtle ironic twist to the narrative as well as allowing the author to delve deeper into the consciouness of his spoiled (but sympathetic) antagonist.<br />Although there is some of Howells influence in this book, Tarkington does not succumb to the artistic sterility of his mentor.  This author is able to tell an interesting story and to develop characters that are not only realistic, but invoke an emotional response from the reader.  And although the ending seems to me a little contrived and more in keeping with some of the \\"realist\\" writers of the early twentieth century, Tarkington's novel is, in the end, successful and offers an enjoyable reading experience.	2002-11-28
US	49564918	R36P7XZA1BH7GH	0679724508	524179095	Laughter in the Dark	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Despicably delicious.	This novel is noteworthy for two reasons: (1) This was the first novel of Nabokov's to be published in the United States, and (2) It marked the first occasion in which Nabokov used the English language in his published writings (he re-translated the novel for its American publication).  But aside from these two points of technical importance the novel does not match up to the majority of the author's other works.  The story of a middle aged man being duped, betrayed, and eventually ruined by a teenage seductress is handled much more convincingly in Nabokov's later work, Lolita.<br />But still there are some redeeming features.  The creation of the characters of Margot Peters and Axel Rex is a stroke of brilliance.  Rarely have two more despicable (yet enjoyable) characters been given full reign to do their dastardly deeds: making a shamble of a man's life and thumbing their noses at social and moral conventions.  The later scenes in the book, after Albinus is blinded in an accident, read like a Hitchcock movie screenplay as Margot and her lover, Axel, frolic openly in front of the now blind Albinus, who still thinks (now physically as well as emotionally) that Margot is still in love with him.  And although these later scenes are the strongest part of the novel they also reveal its major fault.  The book often reads like a screenplay, something that was intentionally written to appeal to Hollywood.  Because of this, Nabokov's style suffers and the wonderful maniuplation of language that is so characteristic of this author is, for the most part, absent.	2002-09-27
US	49564918	R1NHXIAGD6BPOA	0671785761	697798453	All My Friends Are Going to be Strangers	Books	2	7	14	N	N	A good dose of Texan angst.	I once read somewhere that, early in his career, Larry McMurtry use to wear a sweatshirt with \\"Minor Regional Novelist\\" printed on the front, a kind of self-imposed literary scarlet letter.  But whereas Hester Prynne used her talents as a seamstress to transform her scarlet letter into an individual work of art, McMurtry decided to turn his back on regionalism, the basis of his first three novels, and to write about urban Texas and Texans.  The resulting so called \\"Urban Trilogy\\" (of which this novel is the middle work) tells the story of several young Texans who try to balance school, sex, careers and wanderlust during the decade of the Sixties.  The first of these urban novels (Moving On) was a huge rambling affair, ill conceived and poorly written, and although this novel is better, it is still weak when compared to McMurtry's first three novels.<br />McMurtry's story of the young author, Danny Deck, deals with writing and the various pitfalls of becoming and remaining a writer.  Clearly, the author sees himself in Danny and when the book deals with Danny's personal insights into the writing process it is successful.  Unfortunately, too much of the book is given to unreal characters, unreal situations and tries to become a kind of Texan \\"On the Road\\".  Danny Deck (and Larry McMurtry) is no Jack Kerouac.  Even McMurtry's sense of place falls apart once he is outside his native Texas, and the scenes set in California are as artificial as some of the plastic grass that often serves as lawn out there.<br />Throughout the book, McMurtry has Danny ponder the role of the Texan frontier in his own life as well as how it affects the creative process.  It seems as if McMurtry (and Danny) knows that this is the important issue and that this is what he should be writing about, but instead falls prey to the lure of Sixties bohemianism, casual sex (I'm sure with a few more pages McMurtry would have gotten Danny and his eighty year old aunt into bed), and trite plot twists.  Too bad.  Because that part of the novel set at Uncle Laredo's ranch is very good, almost becoming a short story in its economy of words and bare as bone style.  The scene of the two aging cowboys tending the watchfire for the possible return of Emiliano Zapata is haunting and is by far the more memorable thing about this book.o bad.  Because that part of the novel set at Uncle Laredo's ranch is very good, almost becoming a short story in its economy of words and bare as bone style.  The scene of the two aging cowboys tending the watchfire for the possible return of Emiliano Zapata is haunting and is by far the more memorable thing about this book.	2002-08-22
US	49564918	R1H99NP4TP9V4N	0679424776	863473949	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 5: The Captive, The Fugitive	Books	5	11	11	N	N	From obsession to oblivion.	This volume contains parts five and six of Proust's huge novel; additionally, these two parts represent the first posthumous releases from A la Recherche du Temps Perdu.  If there was any doubt in my mind that these parts, published without the author's oversight, could not continue the excellence of the preceding parts, this fear was quickly dispelled.  The Captive and The Fugitive contain some of the most beautiful of Proust's prose, as well as insights into Parisian society, art and the inner thoughts of the narrator not contained elsewhere in the novel.<br />The Captive, originally published in 1923, tells the story of Marcel and Albertine, now kept by the narrator in his Paris home.  This co-habitation is not based on love, nor even lust, but on the obsessive jealousy of Marcel based on his almost psycopathic fear of Albertine's lesbian proclivities.  By this point in the novel, Marcel has removed himself from society and is content to remain for the most part in his room.  Albertine, living in an adjoining room, is allowed out of the house only with a chaperon and to destinations decided in advance by Marcel.  It is the ironic twist that Proust puts on the idea of imprisonment that forms the backbone of this part of the novel.  Not only is Albertine kept prisoner by Marcel, but Marcel is no less the prisoner of his own obsession.<br />It can arguably be stated that each of the parts of the novel corresponds to one of the senses.  If this is the case, the Captive surely corresponds to the sense of hearing.  It is while listening to Vinteuil's septet that Marcel realizes that art is more than the mechanical manipulation of ideas by color, words or music.  Just as Vinteuil has created a complex musical form out of the \\"catchy\\" phrase so admired by Swann and Mme Verdurin's little group, Marcel awakens to the limitless possibilities of artistic expression.  This epiphanic moment awakens in the narrator a desire to commit himself to the life of a writer.  In order to accomplish this wish, he decides that he must end his affair with Albertine.  Marcel's decision to part with Albertine on his own terms is thwarted when he learns that it is she who has made the final break and has left his apartment.<br />Thus begins The Fugitive (originally translated by C.K. Scott Moncrieff, with a freight train full of poetic license, as The Sweet Cheat Gone).  The Fugitive represents the most introspective part of a very introspective novel, and in it Proust's zeal for self-examination is pursued with un-relentless fervor as layer upon layer of the author's persona in exposed to the reader.<br />Marcel's world is turned up side down when he learns that Albertine has died in a riding accident.  His obsession, so debilitating when his mistress was alive, continues unabated after her death and the narrator continues with his scrutiny of Albertine's private life as if she was still alive.  He finally realizes that obsession cannot be eliminated by death and that relief can only come with the passsing of time and the ensuing state of oblivion.  Although Albertine's memory has not been totally erased, the torment that she has caused Marcel diminishes greatly and he is able to resume his life and work.<br />However, it is a different world into which Marcel emerges after his long period of grief.  Just as Marcel's personal life was changed by a freak accident, the social life in which he has emersed himself is going through social changes just as fundamental.  The old aristocracy, becoming more and more deperate for cash, is falling prey to the easy lure of mariages of convenience in which aristocratic titles are exchanged for hefty dowries.  His two friends, Gilberte Swann and Robert de Saint-Loup, are married to each other thus accomplishing what Charles Swann could never do - have his daughter received by the Duchess de Guermantes.  Even more revolutionary, a simple seamstress (Jupien's niece) marries into the aristocracy forever destroying any romantic impressions that Marcel might still hold of the Guermantes and Meseglise Ways.  Clearly Marcel's world is changing, but it is the change in his friend, Robert de Saint-Loup, that causes him the greatest pain as he realizes that even friendships are all too often broken by the passage of time.omantic impressions that Marcel might still hold of the Guermantes and Meseglise Ways.  Clearly Marcel's world is changing, but it is the change in his friend, Robert de Saint-Loup, that causes him the greatest pain as he realizes that even friendships are all too often broken by the passage of time.	2002-07-14
US	49564918	R2TKDG2M6M403C	0380715899	47509404	A Soldier of the Great War	Books	4	10	11	N	N	War, love, Giorgione and one too many similes	The idea of an aesthete entangled in the horrors of war is not an absolutely novel idea, but rare enough in literature to whet the reader's interest.  Helprin's story of the life of Alessandro Giuliani is filled with enough action and plot twists to maintain interest, giving the author's more subtle intentions space and time enough to work their way into the reader's subconscious.  War, art, love and conceptions of beauty weave themselves into a mosaic of mnay hues and complexities.  Almost nothing escapes Helprin's masterplan: climbing (some of the best descriptions I've read), fast horses, fast women, war, love and marriage, an insane bureaucratic dwarf, heroes, and villains (Mussolini makes a brief appearance) all play major parts in Giuliani's life.  In short, Helprin is eminently successful in composing a novel that verges on greatness.<br />So, why not a masterpiece?  I think the faults of the novel are twofold: unnecessary length and Helprin's tendency to overwrite.  The whole episode of Giuliani's last walk with his semi-illiterate companion adds absolutely nothing to the story.  If Helprin was looking for a place to begin his flshback, surely a sensory memory (of which the novel is full) would have offered a more precise means.  After all, it took Proust only a taste of a tea cake to put in motion his monumental work.  Additionally, the novel is full of peripheral events and characters that are introduced and quickly forgotten (like the whole episode with Arturo and his family as well as the whole episode at the Winter Palace) which require the author to spend even more space in writing himself out of self-imposed literary corners.<br />There is no doubt whatsover that Mark Helprin is a very talented writer.  He posseses the skill to tell an engrossing story as well as the command of the language to tell his tale most beautifully.  Paradoxically, it is perhaps Helprin's skill with language that leads to the greatest fault of this novel.  It seems that the author is sometimes mismerized by his own descriptive powers and tries to outdo himself with even more elaborate descriptions, sticky with enough poetic beauty and intensity to surfeit the most poetry starved reader.uthor is sometimes mismerized by his own descriptive powers and tries to outdo himself with even more elaborate descriptions, sticky with enough poetic beauty and intensity to surfeit the most poetry starved reader.	2002-06-09
US	49564918	R3M2XGJVSP8ZMV	0140236392	122553797	Vanity of Duluoz: An Adventurous Education, 1935-46	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Deja vu all over again (well not quite)	Thomas Wolfe served as a mentor to the young Jack Kerouac and greatly influenced Kerouac's first novel, \\"The Town and the City,\\" in both scope and syle.  And although Kerouac would soon develop his own unique vision and voice he could never tear himself completely from Wolfe's influence and the need to re-write or re-tell what had already been written or told.  Just as Wolfe retold the story of Eugene Gant in his \\"The Web and the Rock\\" and \\"You Can't Go Home Again,\\" Kerouac did the same with this novel.  Readers of \\"The Town and the City,\\" \\"Doctor Sax,\\" and \\"Maggie Cassidy\\" will recognize the same characters (although under different names) and events that populate these other novels.  What separates this novel from the others, however, is Kerouac's point of view.  Gone is the childlike, wide-eyed enthusiasm that often drives Kerouac's writings (even in the depressing \\"Big Sur\\"); this is replaced with a middle aged cynicism and bitterness.<br />This novel covers the events from 1935-46, and follows the author from his teen age years in Lowell, Mass. to New York City.  It is a time of football, college at Columbia, stints in the merchant marine and the U.S. Navy, introduction to the bohemian lifestyles of Morningside Heights and Greenwich Village, experimentation with marriage, experimentation with drugs.  William Burroughs, Alan Ginsberg and other writers and artists who would eventually comprise the Beat Generation are encountered and described in a more critical light than in other of Kerouac's writings.  Ginsberg is described as \\"a Puerto Rican nonentity bus boy in a nowhere void,\\" and Burroughs as a great writer, \\"a shadow hovering over western literature.\\"  The pivotal point of this novel is the events surrounding the manslaughter of David Kammerer by Lucien Carr, an event in which Kerouac was peripherally involved (having observed Carr dispose of the weapon and Kammerer's bloody eye glasses).<br />This book was the last major work that Kerouac was to write.  In 1967 he was living with his mother in a small house in Florida, politically conservative, grossly overweight, drinking heavily and strapped for cash.  He had lived to see his own legend become irrelevant and see himself replaced by a new generation of writers like Ken Kesey, Tom Wolfe and the other Merry Pranksters.  No wonder the vitriolic tone of some of the prose, especially when discussing hippies, LSD, and the attendant sixties culture.  Many of the other reviewers of this book have stated that this is not a good book in which to be introduced to Kerouac.  I agree totally.  However, for those Kerouac fans and for those who want to experience the complete Duluoz Legend, this is required reading.n 1967 he was living with his mother in a small house in Florida, politically conservative, grossly overweight, drinking heavily and strapped for cash.  He had lived to see his own legend become irrelevant and see himself replaced by a new generation of writers like Ken Kesey, Tom Wolfe and the other Merry Pranksters.  No wonder the vitriolic tone of some of the prose, especially when discussing hippies, LSD, and the attendant sixties culture.  Many of the other reviewers of this book have stated that this is not a good book in which to be introduced to Kerouac.  I agree totally.  However, for those Kerouac fans and for those who want to experience the complete Duluoz Legend, this is required reading.	2002-03-12
US	49564918	R200SSR8KBUAS	0060929871	949556910	Brave New World	Books	4	25	28	N	N	By Ford, Don't Bogart the Soma!	This was one of those books that I know that I should have read, half convinced myself that I had read, told everybody that I had read, but in fact hadn't.  I finally got around to it.  Although Huxley's novel might not merit the label of \\"great literature,\\" it is a book that has exerted an amazing influence on the intellectual world of the twentieth century and in light of recent events, remains as relevant as ever.  Huxley's world of science gone amuck - where traditional ideas of morality have been forgotten, where new birth is gestated in bottles on conveyor belts, where individuality has been annihilated, and where well being and hope are dispensed in a pill - has conveniently served the purposes of those who like to argue their own political, economic and moral stances.  Thus, those fervent proponents of capitalism and the western traditions see Huxley's utopia as a perfect model for those \\"ungodly\\" communist and socialist states where the individual is sacrificed for the common good; those same socialist and communist proponents see this same utopia as a model for the greedy capitalist states where consumption and exploitation have become a religion; and those moralists among us, of course, see the Brave New World as an example of what happens when traditional values of family, sex, and marriage are cast to the winds.<br /><br />Huxley approaches his subject from the viewpoint of a scientist and the style of the novel is that of scientific exposition.  Little concern is given to character development or to the use of descriptive prose to create atmosphere or emotion.  The plot plods along just like one of the conveyor belts in the Central London Hatchery and Conditioning Centre, and just when the reader gets a little weary, the author astutely throws in a bit of titilation to re-gain the reader's flagging attention.<br /><br />Even this reader sees Huxley's utopia in a special way.  After the events of 9/11 it appears that the American public, conditioned by the present administration, has made security paramount in their lives.  Huxley's World State's motto is COMMUNITY, IDENTITY, STABILITY, all of which seems innocuous enough.  These traits can be viewed as being admirable.  But this motto is much more than just another motto; it was created as an aftermath to a cataclysmic war in which anthrax bombs were exploding with a sound \\"hardly louder than the popping of a paper bag.\\"  The Resident Controller for Western Europe, musing on the war, states that \\"liberalism, of course, was dead of anthrax.\\"  I just hope that this pre-occupation with security will not create a new motto for a new American society, one that sacrifices individual liberties for the notion that we must be secure above all else, a condition ephemeral at best.  Huxley's world, as he was to remark some years after the book's initial apperance, is probably closer than anybody could have imagined.nistration, has made security paramount in their lives.  Huxley's World State's motto is COMMUNITY, IDENTITY, STABILITY, all of which seems innocuous enough.  These traits can be viewed as being admirable.  But this motto is much more than just another motto; it was created as an aftermath to a cataclysmic war in which anthrax bombs were exploding with a sound \\"hardly louder than the popping of a paper bag.\\"  The Resident Controller for Western Europe, musing on the war, states that \\"liberalism, of course, was dead of anthrax.\\"  I just hope that this pre-occupation with security will not create a new motto for a new American society, one that sacrifices individual liberties for the notion that we must be secure above all else, a condition ephemeral at best.  Huxley's world, as he was to remark some years after the book's initial apperance, is probably closer than anybody could have imagined.	2002-02-12
US	49564918	R14PLQQ8BF80AR	0060830328	517744417	Great Short Works of Stephen Crane (Perennial Classic)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	The Very Best of Stephen Crane	Anybody who has graduated from an American high school, or taken an introductory course in American literature at the college level, has been exposed to The Red Badge of Courage.  This story of cowardice, courage, and self discovery is often ranked with the hallmarks of American literature.  However, after this story has been read and discussed, all too often the author of this work is soon forgotten.  This is unfortunate.  Crane produced an amazing amount of work, some equal to or superior to The Red Badge, but very few contemporary readers are aware of these writings.  This collection of short works and stories group together the very best of Crane's work and hopefully will help bring him to the attention of a new generation of readers.<br />Although Crane wrote some of the best descriptions of warfare ever written, not to mention other forms of action from gunfights to the power of sea and fire, his main interest was always concerned with how the individual reacts to the various challenges posed by a flatly indifferent universe.  His characters invariably react with the egotistical assurance that they are in control of their destiny only to be knocked flat by life's viscisitudes.  The character that can strip away his illusions finds redemption; those that don't are simply condemned to repeat the patern over and over again.<br />Two stories in particular deserve renewed attention.  The Blue Hotel and The Monster rank with the very finest short stories ever written by an American.  Both deal with false impressions and how these fallacies eventually lead to the ruin of the characters who hold them.  In the two stories, one dealing with 19th century romantic notions of the American west, and the other with the unseemly side of American small town life, Crane combines realistic dialogue with his wonderful descriptive powers to create a world of his own making, one in which assumptions and prejudices are ever bit as powerful as decent behavior and civil responsibility..	2002-01-16
US	49564918	R15YARUJE49SUX	0701102403	943230910	Wishing Tree	Books	3	12	12	N	N	A children's book by William Faulkner (!?)	Faulkner has always been interested in the perspective of children.  The Sound and the Fury and several of his short stories (&quot;That Evening Sun&quot;, &quot;Uncle Willy&quot;, and &quot;That Will be Fine&quot; come to mind) have delved into the psyche of children as they observe the adult world.  However, this curious book, written in 1927 for his future step-daughter, is written expressly for a child.  As would be expected, Faulkner's foray into children's literature is a marked departure from tradional books for children.  In this book, a sort of cross between Alice in Wonderland and the Wizard of Oz, the reader meets not only the child protagonist and her childhood friends, but an ageing Confederate veteran, a Black nanny and her disreputable husband.  Not only do the children pursue the elusive wishing tree, but get to witness marital strife and the delusional ranting from an old man.  I doubt seriously if this book, replete with sexual and racial stereotypes, would ever find its way into a present day children's reading room.<br />To be fair to Faulkner, this was written with no idea for publication, as a present to an eight year old girl on her birthday.  Regardless of its literary merit, it has come to the light of day as well as to the mention of critics, and through them, has taken on a more serious aspect, something the author could never have forecast while writing it.	2001-12-11
US	49564918	R4NNHWUOE7A6T	089968100X	379737364	His Family	Books	3	24	27	N	N	The winner of the first Pulitzer Prize for fiction.	Until coming across his name in a list of Pulitzer Prize winners for fiction, I had never heard of Ernest Poole.  My curiosity was awaken and I added his Pulitzer novel to my reading list.  I searched all the neigborhing libraries for a copy but was unsuccessful, so had to purchase a copy from an out-of-print book dealer advertised on ... I found that my resolve to read the novel, as well as the unexpected expense in securing a copy, was well worth the effort.<br />The novel is set in New York City during 1913-15, just as war has erupted in Europe, and deals with the family of Roger Gale, a successful businessman.  Gale is a widower who has raised, with varying success, three daughters.  Each of the sisters is selfish: the eldest is overly concerned with her immediate family; the second is overly concerned with the social inequalities of the masses, and the youngest is overly concerned with pleasure and the accumulation of luxury; each is blind to anything that disturbs their own world view.  The character of each of the three gives Poole full license to allegorize concerning the social ills of his day.  The main conflict within the novel is that of the individual family contrasted against the human family, or the mass of immigrants that had recently transformed the City from urban gentility into a modern metropolis.<br />The strenghts of the novel are Poole's character development and his use of dialogue.  Each of the major characters in the book are honestly drawn and become alive in the pages of the book: each acts and speaks as would be expected.  The major flaw is Poole's overly rhetorical ending (common in novels of this period) and his irritating verbatim repetition of the theme of the novel: \\"you will live on in our children's lives.\\"  The reader is forced to endure this thematic recapitulation at least two dozen times.  It is as if the author feared that his readers would not \\"get\\" his message and wanted to be sure that they ruminated on the question of immortality.<br />Although the book will appear to some contemporary readers as being \\"old fashioned\\" and dated in terms of technique and style, His Family offers an unique view into the life of an upper middle class family in the New York City of the early twentieth century.  For anybody interested in the social history of America during one of its most dynamic periods, I would recommend this novel.ortality.<br />Although the book will appear to some contemporary readers as being \\"old fashioned\\" and dated in terms of technique and style, His Family offers an unique view into the life of an upper middle class family in the New York City of the early twentieth century.  For anybody interested in the social history of America during one of its most dynamic periods, I would recommend this novel.	2001-10-21
US	49564918	R19QJKFC5L4W2A	0679727248	196467006	Glory	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Glorious!	I always pick up one of the &quot;Russian&quot; novels by Nabokov with a certain thrill of anticipation. Not only is the reader about to be thrust into the Russian emigre population that moved into the large European cities following the Revolution of 1917, but is also to me made party to the evolving literary genius of the young Nabokov.<br />In this book, which the author describes as soaring &quot;to the heights of purity and melancholy that I have only attained in the much later Ada,&quot; he deals with the themes of alienation and the romantic musings which accompany the lives of the lonely and unspectacular individuals who make their way through this world. For Martin Edelweiss, the main character of the book, life has become a series of romantic possibilities: &quot;a necklace of lights&quot; seen from a train in the French night, the woman who throws a brief glance in his direction, footpaths dissolving into a forest - all these become possible &quot;gallant feats,&quot; if only in his mind.<br />Although Nabokov downplays the similarity between the background of Martin and his own, there is a great deal in this book that is autobiographical. The author's years of emigre life in various European cities, his university days at Cambridge, and his period of manual labor in the south of France all find their way into this novel. Perhaps because of the author's emotional involvement with the book, Glory brings to life a softer Nabokov, one who is content to let the book follow its own winding path and who refrains from interjecting the tautness of his earlier efforts.<br />As a stylist, Nabokov is incomparable and to read one of his books is an experience of sheer wonder. If this book does not rank with his highest achievements, it certainly demonstrates a more mature author at work, one who is on the brink of greatness.	2001-09-21
US	49564918	R1KR1QCTCBFUJC	0671633201	462819321	MOVING ON: A Novel	Books	1	8	20	N	N	Just like the flag of Texas - A Lone Star	At the time McMurtry started this novel, he had established himself as a regional writer of some talent.  His first three novels were turned into screenplays, and two of them, &quot;Hud&quot; and &quot;The Last Picture Show,&quot; did quite well at the box office and with the critics.  Perhaps to shed this regionalist mantle, McMurtry began writing what would be a series of &quot;urban&quot; novels centered on characters associated with the Houston area.  After reading the first of his urban novels, I think that he should have stayed with the subject matter he knows best: the frontier areas of Texas.  Very seldom have I encountered a novel that was so misconceived, overblown, and poorly written.<br />It is as if McMurtry had two novels in mind when he began writing: one about rodeo and the other about graduate study at Rice University.  That he tried to combine the two themes into one novel was foolhardy.  The amalgam that resulted is a strange creation (almost embarrassing), imploying all the hackneyed tricks of pulp writers: the incongruous interconnection of characters, unbelievable crux moments, and titillation.  Thus you have a world champion rodeo star, a Black Panther type, an English professor at Rice, graduate students, a cattle queen, a Hollywood screen writer, a rodeo clown, hippies and an overbearing Houston socialite all sharing each other's lives.  Such unlikely relationships result in even more unlikely denouements.<br />His main character is Patsy Carpenter, a sort of trust fund debutante with no visible means of support who spends her life worrying about what &quot;fetching&quot; or &quot;wild&quot; outfit to wear; how to furnish her new home (formerly owned, it just so happens, by the Rice English professor); taking care of her baby; giving orders to her maid; rescuing her drugged out sister from Haight-Ashbury (naturally); matching witicisms with her acquaintances; learning how to be an adultress; trying to decide to divorce her shiftless husband; reading all the important authors (boy, those Texans can read); and crying.  In fact, she cries so much that she could easily replenish half the empty tanks in West Texas.  No wonder Jim ran off to California with that red headed siren, Clara Clark (love those alliterations).<br />But I think I might have been able to at least accept some of the improbabilities of the novel if it had been better written.  McMurtry has talent and has a fine sense of place.  When he writes about the Wagonner ranch, he brings the reader along.  His descriptions of early morning at the ranch are wonderful.  Everything he writes about becomes palpable, from sound to smell.  Unfortunately, the ranch scenes represent an infintesimal proportion when compared to the rest of this huge, rambling book.  More frequently, McMurtry is content with describing banalities and making very poor literary witicisms.  These drove me to distraction and filled the novel.  Just to give an example from the last chapter.  He writes of &quot;motherly mouthings&quot; and &quot;being dogmatic about dogs.&quot;  I'm sure the author felt that these would bring smiles to the faces of his readers.  To me, they were like fingernails on a chalkboard.<br />My biggest question was whether to give this book one or two stars.  I tried to remember all the redeeming qualities of the book, trying to be judicious in my judgement (God, McMurtry is rubbing off on me!) but could only think of all the time wasted reading this book when I could have been enjoying other things.  Sorry, Larry.  Just like the flag of Texas: a lone star.reading all the important authors (boy, those Texans can read); and crying.  In fact, she cries so much that she could easily replenish half the empty tanks in West Texas.  No wonder Jim ran off to California with that red headed siren, Clara Clark (love those alliterations).<br />But I think I might have been able to at least accept some of the improbabilities of the novel if it had been better written.  McMurtry has talent and has a fine sense of place.  When he writes about the Wagonner ranch, he brings the reader along.  His descriptions of early morning at the ranch are wonderful.  Everything he writes about becomes palpable, from sound to smell.  Unfortunately, the ranch scenes represent an infintesimal proportion when compared to the rest of this huge, rambling book.  More frequently, McMurtry is content with describing banalities and making very poor literary witicisms.  These drove me to distraction and filled the novel.  Just to give an example from the last chapter.  He writes of &quot;motherly mouthings&quot; and &quot;being dogmatic about dogs.&quot;  I'm sure the author felt that these would bring smiles to the faces of his readers.  To me, they were like fingernails on a chalkboard.<br />My biggest question was whether to give this book one or two stars.  I tried to remember all the redeeming qualities of the book, trying to be judicious in my judgement (God, McMurtry is rubbing off on me!) but could only think of all the time wasted reading this book when I could have been enjoying other things.  Sorry, Larry.  Just like the flag of Texas: a lone star.	2001-08-22
US	49564918	R30LGVSXUA18BK	0684801523	193175702	The Great Gatsby	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The 2d Most Important 20th Century Novel written in English?	When I learned that the Modern Library Board had selected the Great Gatsby as the second most important novel to be written in the English language in the twentieth century, my first reaction was &quot;Uh-oh.  What did I miss.&quot;  So, after twenty-five years, I picked up the novel again.  After reading the novel for a second time, even with the Board's lofty ranking always in my mind, my original opinion remained unchanged.<br />Although I have always been astounded by the beauty of some of Fitzgerald's prose, I considered his story of ambition, the &quot;American Dream,&quot; and lost love as somewhat trite and predictable.  That opinion did not change with this reading.  I still saw the plot as being too contrived, the characters too thinly drawn, and his theme of the corruption of the &quot;American Dream&quot; better handled by Dos Passos, Dreiser or even Nabokov.  So why did the Modern Library give this novel such a high ranking?  I am still unsure.  And I might be so presumptuous as to suggest that even Fitzgerald would be surprised; after all, during his lifetime the book nearly went out of print.  I guess that many critics, following the lead of Lionel Trilling, see the character of Jay Gatsby as standing for America itself, and the novel as the most American of American novels.<br />Even though my opinion of the novel remained the same after two readings, my overall impression of the author grew.  I have always associated Fitzgerald with wealth, as an author with whom I could have no connection.  This prejudice affected my reading of Tender is the Night, and has remained for twenty-five years.  Now I see Fitzgerald in a more human light, a man haunted by the same desires that drove Gatsby, and like his chief character, a man who could not give up his dreams, or his &quot;old warm world.&quot;  Both Gatsby and the author lived lives of silent desperation, moving slowly toward thier dreams, passing through the ash heaps of American society under the sightless eyes of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg.ess eyes of Dr. T. J. Eckleburg.	2001-06-03
US	49564918	R3FGMFOIL9Z5I6	0446385166	795362268	Seven Summits	Books	2	7	10	N	N	&quot;The Mountains Win Again&quot; - John Popper	I must admit, I approached this book with extreme prejudice.  I had read some reviews and listened to the opinions of my friends who had read the book and made a mental note to pass on this one.  Then, as a present, I was given the book.  As I make a point to read any book given to me as a gift (I may rethink this policy), I threw all caution to the wind and began reading.  Right away I was gritting my teeth.  The two protagonists, Dick Bass and Frank Wells, I found to be insufferable and left me thanking my stars that I never was stuck with either of them in a tent.<br />Both men were used to getting their way in the business world (although Frank Wells couldn't operate a microwave or buy his own clothes), pushing people about, and letting money do the talking.  When the idea occurred to them to climb the highest peak on each of the continents, they naturally thought that their characters and a little physical conditioning would meet with success.  Amazingly, they were successful - thanks to skilled climbers who risked their own lives to allow these two men to try to fulfill their Seven Summits dream.<br />Rick Ridgeway, the hired pen for this book, treats his benefactors, Bass and Wells, as if they were modern day heroes: men who constantly fought against adversity and always persevered, as well as men who tackled the continents' highest peaks by spending an obscene amount of money making sure that they had a good chance at the summits.  The tone of his prose is almost hagiographic when he describes the mental anguish the two men underwent as they balanced their multi-million dollar careers with the cost and time involved in climbing each of the peaks; and unintentionally comic as in the descriptions of the camaraderie between Bass, Wells, and their new found climbing buddies as Bass recites Robert Service's poem, &quot;The Men Who Don't Fit In&quot; (incongrous since Bass and Wells are the consummate insiders).<br />I must admit, I did gain some begrudging respect for Dick Bass.  After all, in his fifties, he did climb each of the seven summits.  However, one must consider if the success of this enterprise didn't in a way contribute to the overcrowding of the 8,000 meter peaks and to disasters such as the one described in &quot;Into Thir Air.&quot;  And of course there are the mountains, and they save the book from being a total bust.  I wish that Ridgeway would have given them center stage rather than Bass and Wells but, then again, mountains don't deal in money.t for Dick Bass.  After all, in his fifties, he did climb each of the seven summits.  However, one must consider if the success of this enterprise didn't in a way contribute to the overcrowding of the 8,000 meter peaks and to disasters such as the one described in &quot;Into Thir Air.&quot;  And of course there are the mountains, and they save the book from being a total bust.  I wish that Ridgeway would have given them center stage rather than Bass and Wells but, then again, mountains don't deal in money.	2001-04-17
US	49564918	R1O7IEPZUNE5G5	0451525116	530114217	Selected Stories (A Signet Classic)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A good representative collection of Chekhov's stories.	This collection of stories and tales are drawn from the years 1883-1898 and offers the reader a good sampling of Chekhov's prose style, as well as his insight into the nineteenth century Russian character.  The characters that occupy places in these stories represent every segment of Russian society: from land owner to peasant, from the scholar to the merchant, from the honest to the perfidious.  Chekhov was a doctor by education and training, and this scientific background allowed him to approach his subjects with an objective detachment with little inclination to make his characters &quot;grow.&quot;  Therefore, Chekhov portrays his characters as they actually were, and never makes a moral judgement as to any weaknesses that might be uncovered.<br />Chekhov wrote hundreds of these stories and tales in addition to his work as a dramatist, and this element of detachment runs through both genres.  If, however, the author assumes a detachment from his characters, he never loses hope for a better day when poverty and ignorance will be eliminated.  This theme is also repeated in his dramatic works.<br />The translation by Ann Dunnigan is a good one and enables the non-Russian reader to fully enjoy Chekhov's simple but beautiful style.	2001-02-14
US	49564918	R3BU8I83W3Q5IW	1557831629	114348069	Chekhov: The Major Plays	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Chekhov's greatest plays.	While other Amazon.com reviewers of Chekhov's plays have been concerned with the quality of the translation, I would like to place my emphasis on the quality of the plays.  These four great plays: The Sea Gull, The Cherry Orchard, Three Sisters, and Uncle Vanya represent some of the most influential drama written at the turn of the twentieth century; their impact on the development of modern theater is well documented.<br />Chekhov brought drama out of its conventional Victorian setting and made human character the pivotal point of his work.  Plot becomes secondary and what is important is how the various characters respond to situations which usually take place off stage.  There are no convenient denouements or deus ex machinas with Checkhov.  His characters are flesh and blood and do not undergo dramatic character changes during the play; they are usually the same at the end of the play as they were at the beginning.<br />Common threads run through these four plays.  The dramas are set in provencial Russia with the recurring theme of a longing for a life that is just out of the reach of its characters.  Especially moving is the masterful Three Sisters in which the sisters become more and more certain that their dream of returning to Moscow is never to be realized, and that they will spend the rest of their lives in an isolated garrison town where their talents will never be recoginized.  Also, for the first time that I am aware, nature is given central stage.  Chekhov takes his plays out of the drawing room and sets them in nature with detailed set descriptions describing the time of day and the nature of the weather - all of which gives his plays a palpable realism.	2001-01-18
US	49564918	R8TAUNMV69XKE	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Absolutely brilliant!	Having been born and raised in the American South, the Civil War has always been in my consciousness.  I sat through all the obligatory units on the War Between the States in high school, gazed at the ubiquitous Confederate monuments, visited the battlefields, and heard my grandmother talk of her grandfather who served in the Army of Tennessee.  But regardless of the closeness of the Civil War it never struck a personal chord with me, remaining only a list of names, battles, and dates.  Then I read Shaara's book.<br />I can't remember the last time I was so thoroughly capitvated by a book.  What I expected to be a typical war novel became in short time to be one of the best books I have read.  The author who undertakes to write historical fiction must be confronted with problems from which the general novelist is exempt.  The balancing of historical fact and fiction is the primary concern, but when the novelist enters the minds of long dead historical characters things become even more problematic.  To his credit, Shaara balances the facts beautifully and brings his characters to life.  The reader is made party to the thought processes of Lee, Longstreet, Chamberlain, Armistead and others, and those thoughts attain a reality that is remarkable.  The reader is left with the impression that he is in the entourage of the various generals, and is an eyewitness to the action of those days of 1863.  The intimacy that the author creates between the reader and the events of almost 150 years ago is a palpable as it is judicious.  He knows that he is treading on fragile ground and avoids the pitfalls of bias and pedantry and makes every effort to present a balanced account of the events at Gettysburg.<br />Shaara writes beautifully.  His style is reminiscent of the conciseness of Hemingway and the descriptive powers of Thomas Wolfe and he is a joy to read.  His description of the sunset on the battlefield of that last day is so moving and elegantly written that it brought tears to my eyes.ars to my eyes.	2000-12-26
US	49564918	R29S0K7LE4W38B	0679748148	942831312	Sanctuary: The Corrected Text	Books	4	11	11	N	N	&quot;a logical pattern to evil&quot;	This novel was written in perhaps Faulkner's most creative period.  Simultaneously, he was writing, re-writing, or revising The Sound and the Fury, Flags in the Dust (Sartoris), As I Lay Dying, and several major short stories.  It is not surprising that elements of these other works find their way into Sanctuary.  Although Faulkner maligned the original text and the published novel quickly gained a reputation for senationalism and a certain lasciviousness, it is an important work which probably ranks right behind the author's masterpieces.<br />When Faulkner began to revise the galleys of the original text, he was supposed to have been upset at the poor quality of the novel and concerned about possible legal suits from a puritanical reading public.  His revision was to remedy both deficiencies.  However, if a comparison between the original and revised text is made it becomes clear that Faulkner left all the lasciviousness in but worked hard to change the way in which the narrative was told.  In the original version, flashback was the main instrument of narration (indeed, in many cases flashback within flashbacks) and bore an uncanny similarity to the style of Flags in the Dust (the original text of Sartoris).  The revised version attains something of the feel of a detective novel: straightforward prose with concrete nouns and strong verbs, action, stock characters and sex.<br />However, when Faulkner re-worked his galleys and centered the action around Temple Drake, the character of Horace Benbow is relegated to a supporting role and I think that in the end, this change in emphasis robbed the novel of some of its complexity and deprived readers of some of Faulkner's most serpentine prose, prose as thick and profound as the wisteria Faulkner describes growing around the eaves of the Benbow family home.	2000-11-27
US	49564918	R1F3NUOH7XIZA1	0345417984	501452642	Setting Free the Bears (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An impressive first novel.	This book has a great deal of mediocre writing, poor character development, and forced humor; however, it was a very enjoyable and stimulating read.  I think that this paradox is part of the enjoyment, in that a book that begins so poorly could grow on you to the point that you don't want to put it down.  All the later themes and symbols of Irving's more mature work are here: bears, motorcycles, conspirators, Vienna, the sudden unexpected catastrophe, and the story within a story.<br />The novel is divided into three parts and is concerned with Siggy's plan to free the animals of the Vienna zoo.  While this story line is central to the book, it is the flashback, or the Notebook section, that is the strongest part of the novel.  The notebook section is in many ways a precursor of &quot;The Pension Grillparzer&quot; of Garp and deals with the Anschluss era of Austrian history and Yugoslav civil strife during World War II.  This section is written with the same humor, compassion and clarity that are to be found in his later works.  Freedom in all its manifestations (and its inherent disadvantages) is the apparent theme of the novel and this theme is dramatized with the freeing of the animals of the zoo.  This idealistic, but irrational, act proves that one man's (creature's) bars are another's security.<br />Perhaps giving this book four stars is a little generous, but after I had finished the book I was surprised by how much I was moved by the novel and amazed at the young Irving's ability to manipulate his complex material into a coherent satisfying whole.	2000-09-21
US	49564918	R2BLGYHHXO1TLJ	067972723X	586150064	The Eye	Books	3	9	13	N	N	A slightly fractured house of mirrors.	Years ago, I was given Pale Fire by a friend, and for almost three months  I read and re-read that wonderful creation and developed an admiration for  Nabokov which has remained to this day.  I am presently reading his early  Russian works, and while they might not be on par with his later writings,  they are definitely worth reading.  He is a master of both the  Russian (I  assume this from the superb translation) and English languages and to read  him is one of life's great pleasures.<br />The Eye, written in 1930, is  concerned with the nature of identity and how the overly self-conscious  individual is defined only by how he perceives himself seen by those around  him.  Although an interesting, gorgeously written book, and hinting at  greater books to come, The Eye is the work of a young artist who has only  partially honed his craft.	2000-08-14
US	49564918	R2GAR59VYJWGOQ	0671753819	896219190	The Last Picture Show	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Not as good as the movie.	I remember back in the seventies watching an incredible movie, directed by Peter Bogdanovich, that was one of the best expressions of teenage angst, small town boredom, and adult malaise I have ever witnessed.  This movie  made an indelible impression on me, but I had not read the book on which  the movie was based until now.  I'm sorry to report that the novel does not  measure up to the movie.<br />The Last Picture Show is the story of coming of  age on the northern plains of rural Texas, an area full of dirt, mesquite,  incessant wind, and dingy, hopelessly sad small towns.  I still remember  the opening scene of the movie and the feeling of loneliness it immediately  imparted to me.  One would think with such a backdrop, that McMurtry would  have created a work that would have investigated the hold such an  environment has on its inhabitants -- why some people are able to leave and  why others never do.  The book has a promising beginning and a powerful  conclusion, but the middle hundred and fifty or so pages are more  interested in fanciful sexual liaisons and convenient plot twists and  relegate the more important questions to a few (although powerfully  written) parenthetical asides.<br />After finishing the novel, I rented the  movie again.  Once more, I was deeply moved by Bogdanovich's beautiful  grainy and over exposed black and white creation.  The question that  remained with me as I re-wound the tape was how I could like the movie and  screenplay so much more than the book on which it was based.  After some  reflection, I decided that McMurtry's novel is in great need of a good  editor, something that the screenplay inherently enjoyed since it was a  collaboration between McMurtry and Bogdanovich.  I think given the time  constraints of a movie, McMurtry had to start chopping and the things that  got removed (such as an improbable senior trip to San Francisco and the  ludicrous tryst between Sonny and Lois Farrow) made the story much  stronger.  Sometimes I feel that McMurtry is more interested in the process  of story telling than he is about the story told.<br />I am giving this novel  three stars only because of the powerful foundation that McMurty laid, a  foundation that was built on by the McMurtry-Bogdanovich collaboration to  create a unique and powerful work of art.imes I feel that McMurtry is more interested in the process  of story telling than he is about the story told.<br />I am giving this novel  three stars only because of the powerful foundation that McMurty laid, a  foundation that was built on by the McMurtry-Bogdanovich collaboration to  create a unique and powerful work of art.	2000-07-31
US	49564918	R2HLVIPX7EDIFN	0195033817	213986428	James Joyce (Oxford Lives S)	Books	5	15	16	N	N	A masterful biography of the enigmatic James Joyce.	Don't let the size of the book (including 67 pages of footnotes) daunt  you; this is a beautifully written account of one of the most enigmatic  figures in literature that combines precise scholarship with a  straightforward narrative style into a model for the biographic form.  Scholars of Joyce have undoubtedly read and re-read this book; however, for  those readers who are just now approaching Joyce, or for those readers who  have been frightened by the prospect, this biography will make the  introduction painless as well as pleasant.  Ellmann's biography treats  every aspect of Joyce's life including family, friends, and the creative  processs that resulted in his masterpieces.  As Ellmann remarks in his  preface: &quot;In working over these pages, I have felt all my affection  for him [Joyce] renewed.&quot;  The reader of this judicious work will  close the final page with this same sentiment.	2000-07-10
US	49564918	RJN7COAKGVY4K	0345346491	189337677	Walking Across Egypt	Books	3	40	40	N	N	Some butterbeans, a few biscuits, and a helping of schmaltz.	All to often, &quot;Southern&quot; novels seem to dwell upon the darker side of humanity and to be fascinated with the macabre.  Faulkner and O'Connor immediately come to mind.  Walking Across Egypt is the antithesis  of this reputation.  The novel is sweet, full of wholesome characters, set  in a Mayberry RFD-like community where even criminals have their good side,  and is full of descriptions of good home cooked Southern meals.<br />Mattie  Rigsbee is in her seventies &quot;and slowing down.&quot;  She is the  mother of two unappreciative (and unmarried) children, goes to church  regularly, and loves to cook for anybody who happens to drop by.  She also  has a propensity for helping the unfortunate and gets another chance to  help when she becomes involved in the life of a juvenile delinquent.  The  story of that encounter is told with humor and with a genuine affection for  the characters involved.  If the story is somewhat schmaltzy and the ending  is predictable right from the start, this only lends to the charm of the  novel.<br />The book is very simply written and can be read by readers of all  ages.  Edgerton doesn't have one bone of pretentiouness in him and his  story is related in a straightforward manner chiefly through dialogue and  the thoughts of his characters.  The dialogue is excellent -- it is as if  the author turned on a tape recorder in his grandmother's house during  Sunday dinner and later transcribed the conversation.	2000-06-30
US	49564918	R1MG261XI1KI01	0375752331	166079745	In Search of Lost Time, Vol. III: The Guermantes Way (v. 3)	Books	5	25	27	N	N	The third part of Proust's In Search of Lost Time	The third part of the novel follows the narrator into the aristocratic salons of turn-of-the-century Paris, and comments on such matters as the Dreyfus Affair, art and literature, and the disappointments which invaribly  follow the achievement of goals sought after with unbridled desire.  Whether The Guermantes Way is better or worse than the earlier parts of the  novel (or those parts to follow) is not important as a recommendation or  criticism; it makes up an integral part of the novel and cannot exist  without the other parts.<br />Proust is not easy reading and demands the  undivided attention of the reader; as I am becoming aware, the effort put  into reading the novel is eminently rewarding.	2000-06-26
US	49564918	R1P4C68OK4WOM5	068480087X	787497119	Postcards	Books	3	3	4	N	N	The disintegration and alienation of the Bloods.	After reading Annie Proulx's Pulitzer Prize winning The Shipping News a few years ago, I was convinced that I had come across a writer who demanded further reading.  I picked up Postcards, her first novel, with a sense of  excitement that I would encounter the same narrative quality, character  development, and descriptive powers that pervaded her award winning novel.  Unfortunately, this was not the case.  Postcards is the story of the  disintegration of a Vermont farm family, the Bloods, and is told through a  series of vaguely interconnected postcards and narratives.  The novel  focuses on the eldest son, Loyal, who has to leave the farm after killing  his lover and who spends the remainder of the novel in aimless drifting.  The other members of the family strive to remain on their farm, but without  the industrious Loyal to hold things together, their efforts are in  vain.<br />My main criticism of the novel is that it is too episodic.  Because  Proulx's background is with the short story, her first novel might be  expected to display elements of this form -- but in moderation.  Postcards  never becomes a novel.  It consists of related and unrelated episodes, too  many characters that add little to the narrative, and a story line that  seems contrived to find a neat conclusion to the Blood history.  The Blood  family, with the exception of the mother, is unsympathetic and  uninteresting, and the reader loses interest in their plight.  I understand  that one of Proulx's themes is the isolation and alienation inherent in  modern America, but she chooses the wrong character to demonstrate this  theme.  It is Jewell, the mother, and not Loyal who fully experiences this  alienation.  She undergoes a liberation of sorts, learning to drive and  becoming independent, while watching as the family farm is turned into a  trailer park.  Unable to leave the farm, and alienated from all the changes  that are taking place around her, Jewell takes up residence in one of the  trailers that now desecrates her land.<br />Proulx demonstrates her powerful  descriptive powers throughout the book, especially in her description of a  mine cave-in, a tumbleweed storm, and a ground blizzard, as well as in the  John Dos Passos inspired &quot;What I See&quot; sections interspersed  throughout the text.  The reader cannot help but be moved; however, these  descriptions -- no matter how powerful -- still remain nothing more than  episodes and lend only little to the novel.trailers that now desecrates her land.<br />Proulx demonstrates her powerful  descriptive powers throughout the book, especially in her description of a  mine cave-in, a tumbleweed storm, and a ground blizzard, as well as in the  John Dos Passos inspired &quot;What I See&quot; sections interspersed  throughout the text.  The reader cannot help but be moved; however, these  descriptions -- no matter how powerful -- still remain nothing more than  episodes and lend only little to the novel.	2000-06-13
US	49564918	RREGPKOBLKGJ9	0394716795	28667543	Death Comes for the Archbishop	Books	3	48	68	N	N	Cather's landscape of New Mexico	When I first moved to New Mexico, I was told that two books were prerequisite for anybody new to the state: John Nichol's The Milagro Beanfield War and this book by Willa Cather.  I first read Nichol's book  and loved it, but procrastination set in and it has taken me almost twenty  years to get to Death Comes for the Archbishop.  After finishing the novel,  I am uncertain as to whether its merits are in line with its  reputation.<br />The novel is based (some would say loosely) on the life of  Archbishop Lamy and his efforts to increase the authority of the Roman  Catholic Church in New Mexico after the Territory was ceded to the United  States.  As such, Cather paints the picture of a missionary church on the  American frontier making in-roads into the native Mexican and Indian  populations while increasing the reputation of the new Diocese in Santa Fe.  The story telling is straightforward, written in unabashedly simple  language with hagiographic tinges.  Unfortunately, the characters of the  novel are never developed (with the possible exception of Father Vaillant)  and remain as either stolid churchmen or stereotyped parishioners.  Indeed,  the main character of the novel, Bishop Latour, is more similar to the  statue of Lamy in front of the Santa Fe Cathedral than to any flesh and  blood model.<br />There are passages of profound beauty in the novel,  especially when the author is expressing her own feelings about the special  and un-definable qualities found in New Mexico.  In these instances, the  reader gets a vivid picture of the wide spaces, mountains and light that  have captivated visitors and residents for centuries.  However, I found the  book to be episodic to a fault.  The action jumps about, chronology is all  but dismissed, and the novel never achieves a tightness which characterizes  the great works; instead of a great novel, I was reminded of the  &quot;picturesque&quot; novels so popular in 18th Century England.	2000-06-07
US	49564918	R2YASB151XEUK2	0671681028	988319449	IN A NARROW GRAVE: Essays on Texas (A Touchstone book)	Books	2	7	19	N	N	A collection of essays about Texas and Texans.	In this collection of essays, McMurtry treats various aspects of Texas life from bestiality to the loss of the frontier, but in the end he is only moderately successful in uncovering the spirit of his subject.  The writing  is uneven, and not surprisingly, those essays that dispense with  intellectual analysis and reflect the author's emotional feelings are by  far the strongest of the collection.  In particular, the essay on the  McMurty family captures the sense of loss of a way of life in a way that  intelectualizing could only muddle.<br />A major cause for the unevenness of  the writing is due to the author's internal conflict over the appropriate  way to record his observations: by non-fiction or through fiction.  In  those essays in which he attempts to intellectualize his prose, it becomes  stolid and loses much of its impact, while the prose of those essays that  deal with the textures and emotions of the subject rival some of his best  writings.<br />About a quarter way through his book of essays, McMurtry muses:  &quot;... In writing this chapter I have begun to wonder if it is possible  to write a discursive book about Texas which will not turn out to be simply  a book for Texans, or more narrowly still, a book for Texan  intellectuals.&quot;  I think that this, along with the author's choice of  prose style, becomes the central conflict for the author and at the book's  end this uncertainty remains.	2000-06-05
US	49564918	R2SVJ4OA3BDF54	0394438183	912444309	New Orleans Sketches	Books	2	7	12	N	N	A collection of some of Faulkner's earliest prose.	This collection of short prose pieces was originally published in the _New Orleans Time Picayune_ in 1925; however, I'm not sure that Faulkner would be entirely pleased that they have been re-exposed to the light of day.  The writing is rough, even amateurish, and the story lines of the pieces  are often trite and stock.  But in spite of the general weakness of the  writings, there are thematic elements and character types in the pieces  that would reappear in Faulkner's mature writings.  What is absolutely  amazing is that just two years after the publication of these mediocre  writings, Faulkner had published two novels and was deeply involved in the  creation of his masterpiece, _The Sound and the Fury_.	2000-06-01
US	49564918	R3OAI1HLE0UJNZ	0679727221	916996744	The Defense	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Sui-mate!	It would only seem natural that given the interest Nabokov had with games and puzzles that he would write a story about chess.  Originally written in Russian and published in 1930, Nabokov's third novel deals with paranoid  obsession and how the game of chess becomes hopelessly confused with  reality.<br />The novel is a &quot;biography&quot; of Luzhin, an alienated and  morose child who, in an attempt to deal with his daily life, turns to  chess.  He soon becomes a child prodigy and rises to rank of grand master;  however, he is emotionally devastated when he is unable to complete a  championship match as his elaborately contrived defense fails him.  The  aftermath of his breakdown is a confused period of time in which therapy,  the devotion of his new wife, and the mundane combinations of his everyday  life becomes confused with the combination of moves in a chess match.  His  only defense against this perceived attack is to stop the clock on the  game: to commit suicide, or as Nabokov sardonically puts it,  &quot;sui-mate.&quot;<br />Although Luzhin is one of Nabokov's most  sympathethic characters, he is also one of the most boring.  After the  pivotal chess match, the novel tends to drag to its anti-climatic  conclusion, and if it was not for the author's masterful prose (Nabokov  could describe a proctology examination and make it sublime) I would have  been hard pressed to finish the novel.	2000-05-30
US	49564918	R2P5JYHJE6Z7F5	0060976241	591681693	The Lone Ranger and Tonto Fistfight in Heaven	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Stories, prose poems &amp; vignettes of Reservation life	My son sent me this book in the mail and recommended that I read it.  He said that he was loving the book and &quot;laughing like a madman.&quot;  Since I enjoyed the movie, Smoke Signals, which was losely based on the  book, I took my son's recommendation.  The first thing that struck me about  Alexie's writing is that although there is much humor, it is a kind of  humor that elicits guilty laughter: the kind that when you do laugh you  immediately look around to see if you are being observed.  At first I was  not sure if this uncomfortableness was because I was a white reader or if  Alexie (knowing that he would have a large white audience) was just  displaying his anger.  And there is a great deal of anger in this book; but  there is also a great deal of humanity, and by the end of the book I  decided that Alexie is not grinding his ax, only describing a life that he  knows in every detail.  It is up to the reader to make his own  interpretation and his own moral examination.<br />This is not to imply that  the book is not enjoyable.  It is eminently readable and Alexie displays a  style that combines poetry, mysticism, and an understanding of the human  condition that is remarkable.  He describes life on the Spokane Indian  Reservation with poignancy and without any trace of pathos that permeates  similar works.  His characters are fully drawn and occupy real space, and  the reader feels that he has actually spent time with them.  To repeat, it  is an angry as well as a funny book. The reader's decisions to laugh out  loud or surreptitiously will probably be an indication of how well that  person is comfortable with hiw own moral framework.  I think that Alexie  would want his readers, both Indian and white, to laugh &quot;like a  mandman.&quot;	2000-05-26
US	49564918	R19MA5BL8XB1WN	0679720200	882163178	The Stranger	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of the classics of existential literature.	For me, The Stranger, is one of those books of which I have heard and read much about, but which I have never actually read from cover to cover.  The fact that the book now appears in an &quot;American&quot; translation  encouraged me to finally pick up the book and read it.  From its famous  first sentence through Meursault's final musings as he awaits execution, I  was totally entranced.  Several times I castigated myself for not reading  this book sooner, because I think that it is an important statement that is  as relevant now as it was when it was first published.<br />Meursault goes  through life dispassionately, seeing the choices of his life as being of no  importance, and never concerning himself with social conventions.  He has  only one credo: to be honest to himself and to others.  Ironically, this  normally admirable quality often offends those around him and brands him as  being immoral.  Therefore, the fact that he does not cry at his mother's  funeral is seen by his prosecutors as being just as criminal as the  pointless murder Meursault commits &quot;because of the sun.&quot;  While  most existential literature is cyncial and pessimistic, The Stranger offers  readers a semblance of hope in facing the &quot;benign indifference of the  universe.&quot;  Meursault realizes at the end of his life that he has been  happy and that his death, just as his mother's, will not be greeted with  tears.	2000-05-24
US	49564918	RIBIKBT59XBD8	0060928336	859404350	Divine Secrets of the Ya-Ya Sisterhood: A Novel	Books	2	7	8	N	N	A male takes a look at the Ya-Yas	A couple of months ago, my sister called to inform me of a novel set in our hometown of Alexandria, La.; so unaware of anything ever written about good ol' Alex, I had to get a copy of the book and start reading.  Somebody, somewhere, reviewing this book said that, &quot;the only  prerequisite to fall in love with this book is to be female ... and it  helps to be Southern, too.&quot;  Well, I'm a Southerner, but the last time  I looked, a male, and since my reaction is vastly different,that reviewer  must be only half correct.<br />Although I admit that there were some powerful  sections in the novel, for the most part I found it to be predictable,  trite, and boring.  I liked Vivi, but for the most part, the rest of the  characters (especially Sidda and her pre-menopausal angst) never came to  life.  Hmmmm.  Maybe she deserved all that abuse.  And the men?  As long as  they remained single, they were handsome, intelligent, sensitive -- the  perfect male specimen.  But once matrimony entered the picture, the male  species disintegrated and the husbands (with the possible exception of  Chick) became lazy, irresponsible, insenstive and/or Gay.  The question  that was in my mind as I finished the novel was: will the demigod, Connor  McGill (love that name), follow the other males into ignominy?  But what  really upset me about the novel was the way in which the author repeatedly  &quot;Harlequinized&quot; her story which left me wondering when a  Fabio-like character was going to make an entrance.  I think that Wells is  too good a writer to make these cheap excursions into sentimentality and  feminine melodrama.<br />Did I like anything about the novel?  Yes.  I did  enjoy revisiting my hometown (although I would have liked to have spent  more time there), remembering the tast of crawfish etouffee (no respectable  Cajun would ever call in crayfish) and games of bourree.  And if any of you  Ya-Yas out there ever wondered what is so special about Community Coffee,  well be advised, Ms. Wells got that one right.l be advised, Ms. Wells got that one right.	2000-05-22
US	49564918	RKMQVCG8LLVZA	0140168125	146741920	Big Sur	Books	4	24	27	N	N	Kerouac's novel of self-vivisection.	Big Sur is the story of Kerouac's mental and physical breakdown while on &quot;retreat&quot; at Lawrence Ferlinghetti's cabin at Big Sur.  Having obtained instant fame after the publication of On the Road, Kerouac was not  prepared for the adulation and pressures that accompany success.  Pushed,  pulled and used by various &quot;hangers-on&quot; on his return to San  Francisco, he retreated to Big Sur to try to find solitude and to escape  the hectic world of the city.  While there, he is able to find the peace he  was seeking, but in the end is lured back to the city where he begins a  period of heavy drinking.<br />Several characters from On the Road appear,  like Neal Cassady and his wife, Carolyn, and give this novel a sense of  continuity with the earlier books.  The writing is similar to Kerouac's  other efforts, but the prose in Big Sur is tinged with a certain urgency  and sense of calamity.  The climatic scene in the novel is Kerouac's vivid  description of his delirium tremens after several weeks of very heavy  drinking.  I think this represents some of his best writing as he deals  with his own anxieties and a variety of frightening hallucinations.<br />Not  surprising, this novel received the best reviews of any of Kerouac's  novels.  But just as he was beginning to receive some mainstream  acceptance, his experiences in San Francisco and Big Sur (as well as his  new found fame) turned him away from the writing experience.  Kerouac  remarks at the end of the novel: &quot;Books, shmooks, this sickness has  got me wishing if I can ever get out of this I'll gladly become a  millworker and shut my big mouth.&quot;  Although a few minor books were to  follow Big Sur, they never lived up to his earlier works.<br />Kerouac's poem,  &quot;Sea: Sounds of the Pacific Ocean at Big Sur,&quot; is appended to the  end of the novel.	2000-05-17
US	49564918	R2K9XO55GL7L9S	0060830476	882375795	Giants in the Earth: A Saga of the Prairie	Books	3	25	41	N	N	Pioneer strife and hyperbole on the prairies of South Dakota	Originally written in Norwegian, this novel is a self-proclaimed &quot;saga of the prairie&quot; that traces the Norwegian settlement of southeastern South Dakota in the latter part of the nineteenth century.  What is unique about this novel is that it adheres to Norse literary  traditions as it tells an inherently American story; and although the  results are not always completely satisfactory, the novel offers an  interesting reading experience.<br />This combination of Norwegian-American  influences makes for some interesting literary devices.  Often nature is  personified (the sun lives in a house), many of the male characters become  combinations of John Wayne and Thor, and the women stereotypically dutiful,  loyal, and good-hearted pioneers.  One character breaks away from the  stereotype.  Beret, the wife of Pier Hansa (the consummate pioneer) does  not fit the immigrant profile at all.  She is constantly homesick,  melancholy and afraid.  Her first ipression of the prairie is that  &quot;there is no place to hide.&quot;  During the time she spends in the  sod house on their Dakota farm, her melancholy becomes chronic and she  begins to withdraw from her family, has visions of her dead mother, and  contemplates the sacrifice of her youngest child.  Although she has a  religious rebirth and regains her sanity in part, religion becomes an  obsession with her and ultimately leads to the tragic conclusion of the  novel.<br />Rolvaag is interested in the psychology of the immigrant pioneer,  and as long as his attention is centered on this aspect of his characters,  the author is successful.  However, when he becomes concerned with simply  moving the narrative along, he is less successful and the novel becomes  trite, almost comical in its hyberbolic story telling.	2000-05-15
US	49564918	R1TCX6NIS6F87W	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	5	570	607	N	N	More than a hiking narative.	This is much more than a travelogue of two neophyte hikers on the Appalachian Trail, and readers looking for a blow by blow account of the travails of Bill Bryson and his companion, Stephen Katz, will be  disappointed.  Hiking provides only a backdrop to a heartfelt discourse on  the social condition of America, local history, the environment, and the  complexities of friendship.  The pretext for the book was Bryson's return  to the United States after twenty years in Britain, and his interest in  &quot;rediscovering America&quot; after such a lengthy absence.<br />The vast  majority of the reviews of the book cite its hilarity (one reviewer called  it &quot;choke-on-your-coffee funny&quot;), and indeed there are very many  funny parts.  However, the deeper I got into the book, I detected a strong  shift in the author's sentiment from satire to deep introspection.  His  observations became more acute, more angry, and more individualized as his  long hike constantly brings to his mind the fragile environment of the  Trail, the insanity of bureacrats entrusted with the AT, and his own  personal limitations.<br />This was my first encounter with Bill Bryson, and  while I found him entertaining, a beautiful writer, and an astute observer,  some readers will be put off my his sharp satiric wit.  It is certain that  he will offend somebody.  A friend of mine, who also read the book, was  very much upset by the fact that Bryson and Katz didn't hike all 2,200  miles of the Trail, and that somehow their &quot;failure&quot; should  prevent the telling of the story.  This is utter nonsense and just throws  more manure onto the present dung heap that has accumulated from the  participants involved in peak bagging, wilderness races, and experiential  therapy groups.<br />Bryson and Katz at least tried to hike the entire AT, and  they returned from their hike as changed men who learned many lessons about  the wilderness and friendship.  Towards the end of the book, the two men  are talking about the hike.  When Katz remarks that &quot;we did it,&quot;  Bryson reminds him that they didn't even see Mount Katahdin, much less  climb it.  Katz says, &quot;Another mountain.  How many do you need to see,  Bryson?&quot;  I agree with Katz (and ultimately Bryson).  They hiked the  Appalachian Trail.re talking about the hike.  When Katz remarks that &quot;we did it,&quot;  Bryson reminds him that they didn't even see Mount Katahdin, much less  climb it.  Katz says, &quot;Another mountain.  How many do you need to see,  Bryson?&quot;  I agree with Katz (and ultimately Bryson).  They hiked the  Appalachian Trail.	2000-05-10
US	49564918	R22GWCJ7VJA23Y	0679600299	674102062	In Search of Lost Time, Volume 4: Sodom and Gomorrah	Books	5	31	31	N	N	The fourth part of Proust's In Search of Lost Time	Four years ago, I decided that I would begin reading Proust'sIn Search of Lost Time; however, the idea of reading straight throughall seven parts of the novel was somewhat daunting and I decided toread one part per year.  Of course this plan had its drawbacks.  How would I keep all Proust's characters straight?  How could I recall after a year's passage all the details that the author so painstakingly included in his work?  After finishing the fourth part, I am amazed to discover that not only were characters, which were introduced to me three years ago, recalled with ease, but the narrator's intense musings were as equally accessible.  Proust's ability to paint indelible images and ideas onto the memory of his readers is probably his greatest talent.<br />The fourth part of the novel follows the narrator as he returns to Balbec for the second time and is introduced into the world of homosexual activity (which Proust refers to as &quot;inversion&quot;) and the affected salons of provencial France.  In this volume, The Baron Charlus assumes a major role in the novel and Marcel realizes that his jealousy of his lover, Albertine, is reflective of the jealousy of Swann for Odette (it might sound like a soap opera, but it is definitely not).  Whether Sodom and Gomorrah is better or worse than the earlier parts of the novel is not important as a recommendation or criticism; it makes up an integral part of the whole and cannot exist without the other parts.  Proust is not easy reading and demands the undivided attention of the reader; as I am becoming aware, the effort put into reading the novel is eminently rewarding.  So pour yourself a little Pernod and begin an undertaking that you will never forget.	2000-05-09
US	49564918	R1STJUZ26VDGI1	0451522346	115107087	Lord Jim (Signet classics)	Books	4	122	131	N	N	Conrad's novel of guilt, atonement, and self-absolution.	This is one of those books that anybody who has been throughhigh school should have been exposed (or at least exposed to the CliffNotes on the novel).  I remember being assigned this book as a junior or senior and bluffing my way through without really reading it.  I even got a literature degree without reading it.  Finally, after many years, I felt that I should give the novel its due, and picked up a copy.<br />The novel is the story of Jim, an overly romantic seaman, who during a moment of crisis loses his courage.  He is first mate on a pilgrim ship bound for Mecca and after the ship collides with an unseen object and is in danger of sinking, he abandons ship leaving the human cargo to fend for its own.  He is dogged by his guilt and spends years drifting around the East trying to find the right occasion by which he might redeem himself.  Eventually he ends up in the forests of Malaysia where he becomes a god-like protector of the indigenous people and is given the title of &quot;Lord.&quot; But no matter how successful Jim might appear to his followers, and to the omnipresent narrator of the novel, he still cannot forget his moment of weakness.  Jim's self-centeredness prevents him from moving forward with his life and condemns him to a life of voluntary exile, all the time proclaiming that he is not good enough to live in the outside world.  He is willing to risk all future happiness and fortune to be able to face his demons once again without losing his nerves. Ironically, it is his last &quot;heroic&quot; act that destroys all the good that Jim has painstakingly built up, essentially bringing chaos to his Eden like world.<br />Published at the very beginning of the twentieth century, Lord Jim, in many ways anticipated the experimental writing techniques that would be brought to fruition in the works of Joyce, Faulkner, and others.  Conrad is not only interested in telling a tale, he is interested in different points of view, nonlinear narrative techniques, and solving the complexities inherent in a &quot;tale within a tale&quot; formula.  Although some readers might find Conrad's prose a little tedious, perseverence and careful reading will reveal passages of unexpected beauty that will cause the reader to pause -- then slowly re-read.nd solving the complexities inherent in a &quot;tale within a tale&quot; formula.  Although some readers might find Conrad's prose a little tedious, perseverence and careful reading will reveal passages of unexpected beauty that will cause the reader to pause -- then slowly re-read.	2000-05-08
