US	49568439	R2J6SV6A38L8MB	0812550706	401439625	Ender's Game (The Ender Quintet)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	INTENSE and UN-PUT-DOWN-ABLE	I don't read SF.  But despite being an outsider of the genre, I heard such rave reviews that I decided to try it out myself, and see if it's an all-around classic or just a well-known work of science fiction.  When I started the first page, I didn't realize I was gripped.  I was only 'testing' or 'tasting' the feel, but chapters passed, and hours ticked by, before I resurfaced enough to realize I was hooked.  It was going to be midnight and so I attempted to be firm and put down the book so I could get some sleep.  But I wasn't just curious about what would happen to Ender, I was still living Ender's life, and I was still tied irrevocably to the book.  The light went back on and out came the book, and I didn't try to stop even as it became 2am and went onto three.  I was only satisfied when I had finished the book - and that, quite frankly, is only because necessity forced me to: I didn't have the sequel with me.   ENDER'S GAME is written in an easily readable style that can convey intensity and subtle human emotions better than the finest vocabulary.  I'm not six, nor a genius, nor ever was a boy; I'm not a SF reader, I have no military experience, I don't do simulators and computer games...In short, I have nothing in common with Ender Wiggins.  But his experiences are so real that they became a part of me, and for a short time I WAS him, and I shared his victories, defeats, despair, self-doubt, and invincibility...   I am definitely reading the sequel.  And the book after that. And the one after that.  I hear that they aren't as action-packed and hard-edged.  But those are the mere trimmings of the book and there is more truth to the story than that.  I hope you read it and I hope it's an experience you'll look back on as formative.  I think it will have a strong impact on whomever reads it.  Here's to Mr. Orson Scott Card, and may he write many many more intense, knowledgable, HUMAN books!	2000-11-08
US	49568439	R2Y77O0N3Z296M	0345396545	798168467	Ilse Witch (The Voyage of the Jerle Shannara, Book 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	It's a success!	This book is great!  It's a Shannara book through and through!  I am so, so relieved and happy because I had been really unimpressed by Brook's last Shannara effort, First King.  However, this one has all the magic and characterizations of the Classics and the Heritage, though the plot seems to have taken a turn from the usual.  Interesting.   It is really neat seeing our Walker Boh become The Druid, enigmatic and secretive, though he has many passages through his own point of view.  I like all the main characters from vivid, confident Redden Alt Mer (the captain) to the bizarre Truls Rohk (a strange creature) to clever, thoughtful Bek Rowe (THE main character) to cheerful Quentin Leah (Bek's cousin and weilder of the sword) to tough and easy, beautiful Little Red (Rue Meridan, Redden's half-sister) and so on.  They are all likable and the Ilse Witch is an intriguing mystery.  However, you don't really get to know the characters very well except for Walker, Hunter Predd (I like him, too) and Bek.  This whole book, while fun and exiting, was somewhat introductory and so I can't wait for the next, in which I assume we will know everyone better and get to sink our teeth into the characters and plot.   In this one, roughly half the book is about rounding up the characters and the brisk, exciting preparations for the Jerle Shannara.  And the other half is about traveling to the islands and trying to untangle their mystery and that of the keys and the castaway map's purpose.  Lured onwards by the promise of a great magic, the crew and members of the quest may very well be flying into a trap.   It's a good book and better yet a reassuring one, proving to us fans that Terry Brooks can still write Shannara well and true.  It's also a mere prelude to the next!   So read it and prepare to impatiently wait for the next!	2000-10-04
US	49568439	R15T1XFFRKOB6O	0886774446	505816167	The Madness Season (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	It was really excellent!	Wow, this book was great!  I'm not usually one to read hard SF but with CS  Friedman the writer, who can resist?  I'm so glad I did read it.  The plot  was incredibly intriguing and gripped me closer as the story progressed,  until it reached a point that made it literally un-put-down-able.  The  action is exciting and strange enough to give it that SF feel.  I loved the  Marra, which are a kind of pre-Iezu species.  They were very, very cool.   Daetrin was a sympathetic character.  I mean, you become pretty drawn in to  his story (unlike In Conquest Born, I might add) and care about his  feelings.  The timefugues he experiences were totally amazing!  They're not  only glimpses into his unique past but an excellent experience-bank that  give you better understandings of certain situations, certain scenes.  I  love the way the author ended the book.  It was kind of disturbing, very  effective, but then there's the last sentence, which is so ridiculously  in-character, that you can't help laughing, so that event though the story  has taken you to dark places, and even though the main character is  emotionally scarred, you end with a smile on your face! (If you've read the  complete Coldfire Trilogy then you will understand what I mean.  Damien has  a similarly irresistable, humurous last-line in Crown of Shadows.)   READ  THIS BOOK.  IT IS SO WONDERFUL.  And it's like a prequel to This Alien  Shore (1998 SF Friedman book), so when you're done reading The Madness  Season, you'll probably want to read or re-read This Alien Shore.	2000-09-12
US	49568439	R18V3D04RKTF2I	0886774446	505816167	The Madness Season (Daw Book Collectors)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Wow	Because others have already written great reviews on the contents of this  book, I won't even try.  Instead I'd just like to share my excitement and  enjoyment over this, a wonderful C.S. Friedman book that possibly  (POSSIBLY) tops her amazing Coldfire Trilogy.  I'm not really into SciFi,  which is why I was really disappointed with This Alien Shore and In  Conquest Born (more of the author's work) after I discovered the incredible  semifantasy trilogy.  Because of my early disappointments I didn't even try  to get hold of - and read - The Madness Season, which I thought would be  just another SciFi let-down.  Big mistake.   One day, just months after  acquiring the coldfire trilogy forever and ever, and in this way optimistic  and full of hope towards Ms. Friedman's other works, I saw it sitting on  the shelves and thought I should finally give it a chance.  I'm glad I did.   Yes, this is hard science fiction, but there are other elements  interwoven, such as vampires &amp; shapechanging.  This is what immediately  drew me in, thinking &quot;Neat-o!  Is this guy a kind of  pre-Tarrant?&quot;  He wasn't, but the concepts of vampires in the hands of  Ms. Friedman are endlessly fascinating.  I liked Daetrin.  His humor  reminded me of Damien and his pasts and present were pretty fascinating.   But to my great surprise, it was the SciFi aspects of the story that was  most involving.  I was drawn in by the alien races, fell in love with the  un-embodied Marra species (even Kost, who has some really funny scenes with  Daetrin; especially Kirri, who makes this the first almost  &quot;happily-ever-after&quot; ending I've ever read from Friedman; and  really that &quot;priest&quot;-Marra, he was adorable in the last scenes.)   The Tyr, the enemy alien race that had subjugated Earth, was terrifying and  a fascinating mystery.  The Raayat-Tyr that Daetrin dubs Frederick, thus  teaching him something of individuality, was intriguingly bizarre and  somewhat endearing, while always just a little frigthening.  The  originality and creativity in the whole book, not to mention the quickening  pace and sense of approaching climax, made this book a real must-read.  I  found it extremely hard to put it down and my mom complained that I was  totally out of it when I was reading, responding automatically but without  conscious thought, and really too busy chuckling over occasional moments of  humor in the book.  The best thing about this book to me is that it's the  first Friedman book I've loved and felt a connection to with the Coldfire  Trilogy, surpassing it in areas such as plotting and pace.  And because of  this I'm suddenly sure that if I reread This Alien Shore I'll really like  it - that this excellent scifi will have somehow shown me how (and that  sounds pretty dumb, but it's true).  So now I get to look forward to  whatever new books Ms. Friedman decides to write, whether SF or Fantasy,  and have every expectation of loving it!	2000-09-07
US	49568439	RMOOWODHDUZRK	0312867514	915491164	Prophecy: Child of Earth (Symphony of Ages, Book 2)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	the plot thickens	But better yet, it does so without going off in innumerable directions!   I'd like to congratulate the author (without sounding presumptious) for  keeping focused and sticking to an honest trilogy.  A lot happened in this  book, moving the story forward -not sideways, answering many questions  while still leaving enough room for speculation on the conclusion.  Ms.  Haydon has a good imagination, a way with words and nice sense of pacing.   Being a sequel, it can't match RHAPSODY in freshness, but that's as it  should be.  I began this book at dawn (amn't I an early bird?) and finished  at dusk, only taking the occassional break to assure my disapproving family  that yes, I am alive, and to do those little neccessary things that prove  it.  But otherwise I just sat and read until I finished it.  Which goes to  show my interest.  So why am I not raving and calling this the very best,  most wonderful fantasy out there, and why did I give 4 stars and not 5?   This is the tricky, personal part.  First of all: yes, this book is good,  and the author is good, and I was very very interested.  But okay, it's not  perfect.  While I did grow to like Ashe, I didn't care very much about him.   And as he's an important, emotional character, I should have.  I mean,  generally I would, and usually an author can make me.  But passion and  passionate words was all I got as an incentive (and that doesn't work on  me) and before that an awkward, inadequately explained friendship that was  unreal (not like Achmed and Grunthor or even Jo's).  Also, I still didn't  feel inclined to cry during appropriate moments (I'm used to more empathy  than this author makes me feel).  There were frustrating parts when long  explanations that the reader had already read was repeated for a character  that hadn't been present or who learns same info through different means,  and that frankly was not neccessary.  However, these are only minor and  personal problems, and not something that seriously detracts the reading  worth of this book.  I'm definitely curious about third-and-last book  Destiny: child of sky.<br /> P.S.: I'd just like to add that Rhapsody's  incredible beauty becomes a lot less irritating.  It's part of her  character and less of a blind now.	2000-08-23
US	49568439	R250HBMQAANMHF	0441004385	739800863	Winter Rose	Books	5	69	71	N	N	A poem, a riddle, a dream	Ms. McKillip has woven magic into this book.  A tale of falling sunlight, drowning roses, shadowy green eyes, sweet perfumed water, cold winter days,  half-seen images: of fey and the ordinary, of a hidden secret, a hidden  sorrow in the Lynn legends.  This is the story of Rois, the untamed,  witch-like daughter of a farmer, and how, by loving the fey Corbet Lynn and  ferreting out his secrets, following him through dreams and reality, she  finally becomes human. A poignant tale, I cried at times, swept away by the  emotional power of Ms. McKillip's poetic prose.  I have never read anything  so beautiful.  So sad.  I love this book very much.  Not only was it  amazing trying to follow Rois and Corbet through realms beyond, but trying  to distinguish what was dream and what was reality.  The imagery used, the  symbolism, was so otherworldly in its significance, in its beauty, that I  was awed  as well as moved much of the time.  I wish Patricia McKillip's  other books were as this one.  By making it a first-person-narrative you  never lose focus of the character while becoming adrift in the world.   Again, this really was very beautiful (there is no other word; it's like a  melody that stirs the soul) and I was spell-bound.	2000-08-17
US	49568439	R3BMNZLWG2ACD6	0553296841	528573501	Femmes Fatal	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Not bad	Not as good IMHO as the first three, this Ellie Haskell mystery is still a  funny and enchanting diversion.  With moments of warmth, hilarity and  suspicion, this book has the same winning blend that makes Ms. Cannell so  popular.  When the Chitterton Falls women sign up to join a club that  promises to bring the passion back into marriage, with its helpful  counseling and incredibly funny handbook of hints, things don't go as well  as they should.  Not all husbands seem thrilled with the change in their  wives.  And sudden deaths halt the fun and games when murder makes its  dramatic appearance.  I must say that a character I had long found  irritating and dislikable dies in this book and I wasn't a bit sorry  (though I did experience a moment of terror when I feared the evil deed had  in fact not gone through).  Anyway, this book was entertaining and worth  several laughs as well as some puzzled thought as to whom the murderer  might be, and how many of the deaths were caused by him/her?  A nice  addition to the series.	2000-08-15
US	49568439	R3NSSUE8YIF6HO	055357468X	213985247	God Save the Queen!	Books	3	9	16	N	N	Disappointing but not without its good points	I liked Flora and Vivian even though they were rather colorless and drab  compared to Ellie Haskell's world.  But I was just so shocked by the  story's mostly negative difference, that I don't think much of this book.   I KNOW the author can do better than this.  Don't I have the Ellie Haskell  mysteries as proof?  But this wasn't too bad and being shorter it was  easier and quicker to get through than that other, Down The Garden Path.   However the mystery was an utter flop.  I'd guessed who the murderer was  almost as soon as we learned of the butler's death, and though I did falter  briefly in my conviction due to suspicious behaviour on an innocent's part,  I knew it all.  Which is downright spooky and says little for the story's  merit, since I'm the kind of person that doesn't think and reason when she  reads a mystery but shuts her brain up and lets the main character do all  the figuring out!  But no, it wasn't terrible...not really, though still  very disappointing...and nothing like Ms. Cannells' other books.	2000-08-15
US	49568439	R2VYO9VBAAO1AZ	0886771986	169918572	In Conquest Born	Books	4	60	66	N	N	Brilliant but I didn't like it	I feel forced to give this book its due.  This was obviously a very well-written, intensely gripping, original work, even though I completely  failed to enjoy any of it.  I had no sympathy for the characters, which was  disappointing after my attachment to Damien and Tarrant (characters from  the author's other work).  If you are considering reading this book solely  because you absolutely loved the semifantasy Coldfire Trilogy, just as I  did, then DON'T read this because it's not only very different, but geared  to a different audience.  If on the other hand, you like hard and dark SF  with alien races and ancient, futuristic hatreds, and savage people and  barbaric civilizations...then this is a great book.  The pacing was  excellent, if bizarre, as the author gives us the viewpoints of different  characters without being immediately clear as to what the narrations are  doing there, and who these people are, and how in the world do they fit  into the story?  That comes later.   Putting aside my dislike for all the  corruption that made this such an &quot;adult&quot; book, I am left  thinking this story very, very bizarre.  That isn't neccessarily a bad  thing; it's just a very confusing thing, and also makes the story haunt me,  which is why I'm writing a review a year after reading the book.  I didn't  understand the end.  Or perhaps I should say, I understood the end, but  didn't understand why it had to happen.  I still don't like the story, but  that's me, and YOU (whoever you are) might like it, so I'll refrain from  making a biased statement and just say that if you meet with the  abovementioned requirements, you should like this, and if you're just a  fellow Coldfire trilogy fan you shouldn't.  I hope this all helps but I'm  having my doubts as to my clarity. :)	2000-08-15
US	49568439	RMQ7UNHM87H7Q	0152016090	396228917	Court Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book II	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Infinitely satisfying	...which isn't to say I couldn't take more! :)  I loved this book, loved these characters, and had fun reading of the courtly duels that took place.   Meliara, that spirited young thing, is trying to behave as befits a  Countess as she visits court to privately determine who is worthy of the  throne and thus her support.  (For she flatly refuses to acknowledge that  arch-enemy, the excellent marquis, Shevraeth, can possibly be fit as King)  What ensues is more than she ever expected.  Hailed as heroine by the  court, she's surrounded by admirers and the ill will of those who are  jealous of her sudden and complete popularity.  Shevraeth hangs around a  bit, but the sparks must always fly when he is near, and they never do get  along.  Instead, a mysterious correspondance between Meliara and an Unknown  is formed, where ideas are exchanged until ofcourse love blossoms, though  severely hampered by a lack of identity.  This is a sequel as sequels  should be, a continuation of Meliara's story which is smooth yet utterly  unlike the wonderful first, drawing upon other elements for danger and  action.  When you are finished, you'll probably be grinning stupidly and  raving, as so many others have, over the wonderful Shevraeth! :)   This was  a great story, the kind that can be read by many ages, being neither too  juvenile, nor adult.  I wish the author could write another book of Meliara  (and her hero :)) but as this was a duet, this is sadly unlikely.  Instead,  I merely hope that Ms. Sherwood will write a book of similar content, a  charming fantasy with that winnig touch of romance!	2000-08-15
US	49568439	R2D6M5JKULO2LR	0140266232	267522077	Down the Garden Path (Tessa Fields Mystery)	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Disappointing	I'm not sure what happened here.  I actually wanted to rate this two stars  and a half, but that's not possible, so I've decided to be generous.  For  the characters in this book were likable enough but the plot and story was  slow and awkward, and frankly, I became very bored halfway through the book  and had to put it down for a few days before I could finish it.  The  strange thing is that when I read Ms. Cannell's next book, a second Ellie  Haskell mystery, it was so good, exactly the quality I had been expecting  from Down The Garden Path.  I think Ms. Cannell's Ellie Haskell books are  her best and there her talent shows.  But as for the others...quite  frankly, God Save the Queen was even worse than this one in it's way.	2000-08-15
US	49568439	R359IDWRJFX48A	0886776066	45546370	To Green Angel Tower, Part 2 (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 3)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Great stuff	This is where it all ties in.  All those loose strands, those confusing  tidbits that didn't yet fit in...well, now they do.  You'll finally figure  out who the false messenger is. Simon will be knighted, and with Princess  Miriamele atlast reunited, Prince Josua and his men get a second chance at  making a stand, King Elias' madness begins to make sense, the Sithi finally  join in the battle against the Norns, and all the same great characters  (except, ahem, for those who died) are back, and as lovable as before!   This has also got to have the most action of the trilogy.  What with  battles, personal quests, raids and the like.  Better yet, Simon is growing  up, though still the same ole Simon.  There's magic and intrigue in this  really fat book, same as the others, but here is the conclusion, where  instead of more questions being posed, we get some long-awaited answers.   (Such as about the significance of the ring Morgenes gifted to Simon and  the passage about Prester John's defeat of the Hayholt dragon) So return to  Green Angel Tower and the confusing catacombs that riddle its foundation  and feel the tension mount as the ending nears!  Now the only question  remaining is whether or not I should go on to read the new OTHERLAND books.   I'm not crazy about computers (don't understand them overmuch) and SF  isn't my thing, but on the other hand, it's by Tad Williams so it's got to  be good, right?	2000-08-15
US	49568439	RYXKR1KHQ4XH3	0553569511	896784966	How to Murder Your Mother-in-Law (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Lesson: never plan your mother-in-law's murder in public	The elder Mrs. Haskell is back, only we've just discovered that legally she has no claim to the name, having never actually married Ben's Jewish  father due to religious differences.  Now she's determined to stay with her  son, Ellie's husband Ben, until the elder Mr. Haskell makes up with her -  which doesn't seem to be about to happen in a hurry.  Ellie is neigh driven  to distraction by Ben's martyred mother and finds out to her surprise that  she isn't the only one suffering from a severe affliction of Mother-in-law.   Three other women in the town have similar problems and when they meet up  (quite by accident) at a local pub after Ellie had stormed from husband and  home, they fantasize over how to murder their mother-in-laws to let out the  tension that had built up within them.  When they finish their make-believe  plotting they disperse, feeling the better for it, though somewhat guilty.   However, when not long afterwards the first mother-in-law dies by the  method determined safest by the bitter daughter-in-laws, they are guiltily  horrified.  Worse, relations between Ellie and the senior Mrs. Haskell had  just begun to show promise when her life is suddenly endangered!   More fun  with Ms. Cannell! This is another great Ellie Haskell book.	2000-08-15
US	49568439	R1WH0KVCW4RCC6	0809900033	483496444	The Dragonbone Chair (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn Book 1)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Warning	The Memory, Sorrow and Thorn trilogy is up there on my list with the best.   For classical fantasy it tops them all.  On the same level with Melanie  Rawn's breath-taking Dragon trilogies, but less geared towards adults  alone, this book and this author is great!  Now, please do not  misunderstand me.  These books are NOT for every one.  If you don't  appreciate too much detail, then take caution.  If you don't love words  &amp; words and a classical style of writing, then again: maybe this isn't  for you.  For in spite of the battles, dragon, runaway princess, walking  horrors and fairy Sithi, this isn't the type to be classified as an  adventurous romp.  This is in many ways far too seriously developed and  pain-stakingly woven to be discarded as a &quot;fun&quot; tale.  Not  everyone will like it.  Not everyone likes classics.  But those who do,  persevere through the first chapters and you'll discover a gold mine.  The  writing style is not as intimidating as I'm making out (I first read these  books when I was either 11 or 12) but I'm trying to make a clear warning to  those who won't like this so that they won't read it, fail to appreciate  it, and then make a lot of disparaging comments.  I personally adore this  trilogy and treasure my copy.	2000-08-14
US	49568439	RPET2GQQPOFU0	0312194110	151354544	Evan Help Us (Constable Evan Evans Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	So cute and homey	This book is cosy and even though I'm a city girl and far from Welsh, the  whole thing reeks of Home.  It's funny and light and the characters a  delight.  The mystery is good and the pacing as well, but no: this book is  not a thriller or nail-biter or really dumbfounding, shocking or complex  mystery.  Doesn't make it any less a good book or nice read, however.  Try  it.  I'm enjoying all four books of the Evan Evans series so far.	2000-08-14
US	49568439	R3H93PO1CL9DQ2	0152016082	642896985	Crown Duel: The Crown & Court Duet, Book I	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Lovely and Very Fun	This is great writing.  The action is fun and exciting and the story is the kind that not only teen-girls would like, but adult women can and do  appreciate.  Yes, a female audience will enjoy this naturally more than any  guy.  After all, there's a hint of possible romance and quite a bit of  chemistry between heroine and er-villain?-ally? the Marquis of Shevraeth.   Doesn't that name just roll off the tongue nicely?  The personality behind  the name is as enjoyable.  He's got to be one of my all-time favorite  heroes (from junior books), such as Sheftu from Mara and Howl from Howl's  Moving Castle.  The sequel is more staid but just as well-written.  In  fact, I heartily wish Ms. Sherwood Smith would write more books like this  instead of the SF books she's working on with Andre Norton (I'm biased, not  being a fan fo SF).  I've enjoyed her Wren books, too, but this Crown and  Court Duet is for a larger audience and is quite her best work (IMHO).	2000-08-14
US	49568439	R6BTOWL04UXWL	0425176134	195593194	Evanly Choirs (Constable Evans Mystery)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	As good as the others	I'm following these mysteries with interest and enjoyment.  The plots are  good but it's the characters that are the real draw for the book.  Ms.  Bowen is adept at creating a warm atmosphere and likable, humorous  characters.  And Evan Evans is such a wholesome, good guy that it's a  heartening reading about him after a bit of darker literature.  These books  are my guaranteed pleasant reads and I'm happily looking forward to the  next.	2000-08-14
US	49568439	RNH4W279I8KK3	0886774802	931140449	Stone of Farewell (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 2)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An Epic	Stone of Farewell - one really excellent book.  A great, fully-realized sequel to Dragonbone Chair.  I originally read this book before Dragonbone  Chair because as usual the excellent (hardcover)cover had caught my eye and  the first book wasn't immediately accessible.  The way this one plunges  into the story straight away helped me read the Dragonbone Chair later  without finding it tedious or being impatient with the slow development of  plot.  Osten Ard and especially the forzen mountains of the troll-folk were  excellently described.  This book isn't the normal action-packed, paperback  fantasy with sword-fights and ripped-guts galore, (which can be fun in its  own way, I grant you) but a very special, very real classic.  A lot happens  in this book on a grand scale and the author isn't afraid to kill  characters, which kept me holding my breath and not daring to form  predictions.  I really like his characters.  I love Simon, not because he's  a great hero, because he isn't; nor because he's cool: he isn't.  I like  him because he feels real and because Williams makes us understand him and  feel the story.  The supporting characters are great!  I love adorable  Binabik and his hilarious troll quotes and his funny speech.  Duke  Isgrimnur is a bear of a gem.  Prince Josua is intriguing and his queer  humor and scholarliness sets him apart from the usual run.  The only main  character that I'm not all that crazy about is Princess Miriamele, but  she's no where as bad as some of Robert Jordan's female creations!	2000-08-14
US	49568439	RCA57P59S6R16	0812570812	953091978	Rhapsody : Child of Blood	Books	4	43	47	N	N	Good enough...	..But not without its share of flaws.  The strongest aspect of this book  is its imagination and a certain originality that awakes your curiosity (I,  personally, am waiting for the sequel with mounting impatience).  The  supporting cast of characters are very good.  The intriguing characters of  Achmed the Snake (who is very cool and my favorite character in the book)  and his sidekick, the giant and cannibalistic Grunthor were really the best  thing about the book.  The humor was great if, yes, occasionally juvenile,  but it worked, right?  The pacing was surprisingly excellent for a story  that spends several centuries travelling in a monotonous Root. :) The  heroine herself, of whom all rhapsodize in a very annoying manner, was a  different story.  By herself, I would probably consider her the perfect  fantasy female protagonist.  After all, she didn't whine (too much) and she  wasn't overly self-centered, but neither was she some arrogant princess  with a lot of &quot;spunk&quot; or a toughy-tough warrior woman, the equal  of every and any man.  No, she was human, but better yet, feminine, while  still holding her own, being capable and sympathetic, and not thrown in for  romantic interest.  So where does she go wrong?  When the author keeps  sticking down our throat how wonderful Rhapsody is and when she suspends  our belief by transforming her late into the story into a really  irresistable, completely gorgeous, surreal being.  Please, Ms. Haydon, what  purpose did that serve?  I was deprived of getting an honest reaction from  the people (especially men) who encountered her ever afterwards, and  couldn't add to my understanding of the character, because no one reacts to  HER anymore, just to her stunning beauty.  That was a bad move in my mind  because her meeting with Ashe, which should have been special, was just  made really disappointing and commonplace instead.  But if the author  actually has a reason for this transformation (it wasn't neccessary in the  least; Rhapsody was already naturally beautiful and winning) then I guess  it's not a real problem.  After all, normally something so irritating as  Rhapsody's utter gorgeousness would have been devastating to the story plot  and interest, but the book takes it in stride and somehow continues to be  worth the reading.  So, I'm recommending this book I guess, and pretty  strongly.  Though I never cried (and usually I do), I did laugh a lot (and  in all the right places) and was drawn effectively into Ms. Haydon's world.	2000-08-14
US	49568439	R1SS5UBJYBQMQ5	0312864299	197126237	The Last Dragonlord	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Pretty good	Actually, and this will no doubt come as a shock, I don't care particularly for dragons and Pern was only a passing fancy in my childhood.   Okay, so I'm not as old as I'd like to make out after that prominent  reviewer stated that the only ones who can enjoy it are 15 years old or  younger...I'll have you know I'm a whole year older than that. :)    Truthfully, I grabbed this book because it was the only fantasy book I  could reach in a hurry and I only had mystery books at home, which I find  stifling, since I prefer to get a dose of magic and adventure every once  and awhile.  And really, as soon as I checked it out, I began to have an  anticipation that warned me this might be as good a first book as The Green  Rider.  Not excellent perhaps, but good.  And it was.  It was very colorful  and full of life.  I find too often that fantasies these days are filled  more with death and so such.  But this one had villains I could actually  bear reading about.  Ones who weren't the disgusting psychos best-selling  authors have gleefully created.  These were more interesting.  Dark - yes,  ofcourse, they are bad after all.  But they weren't crazed and frothing at  the mouth or dreaming sickened, perverted dreams (though they did have the  obligatory evil cunning).  That was refreshing to me.  And the romance in  the story kept the story's pace brisk and sympathetic, adding more depth to  the characters.  It was a good story because it was enjoyable.  I'm not  saying it's a masterpiece of literature nor am I saying it's a candy for  babies.  It was well-written.  I'm reccommending it with my four stars but  I'm also having some doubts as to the sequel, whose excerpt I read with  fading eagerness.  The author still seems worth the watching.	2000-08-10
US	49568439	RED9A8G66RDNH	0886775272	892244184	Black Sun Rising (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	5	51	60	N	N	AMAZING - and this is only the beginning!!!	Oh God, I love these books!  I've read the whole trilogy and I've reread  it and then reread it again, and it still haunts me!  I never tire of it.    Some people complained that there wasn't enough depth in the characters and  that made me laugh a lot because sure at first you don't know them that  well (how can you?  this is book one) but as you progress through the  trilogy the character development is amazing!  Believe me, when you are  done with all three, you will know these characters inside out and they  will fascinate you, and you'll feel for them.  The author does an EXCELLENT  job of slowly building up empathy among the readers for main characters  Damien Vryce and Gerald Tarrant.  At first I thought I could never like  Damien because I hate the burly warrior types but he's more complex and  solid than I ever guessed and to my surprise I began to treasure his wry  humor and to admire his strength.  The priestly side of him is a good  balance for his warrior skills and rough experience.   As for Gerald  Tarrant...oh God!  You'll fall under his spell instantly even though he's  pretty evil, and I mean: EVIL.  He fascinates and repells at the same time  and he's just too cool for words.  He's got so many vices: vanity,  arrogance, ruthlessness, but somehow the author already begins in this book  to hint at something underneath very complex and far from all bad.  Which  is why I love the sequel (When True Night Falls) so much.  That is the book  where the characters have their surfaces rubbed off and you see what they  really are like!  Gerald Tarrant is amazing and C.S. Friedman is even more  amazing for creating him!  I wish there were more Tarrants out there (in  books I mean) but he's a very original character.   Anyway, my message to  you is KEEP READING THESE BOOKS and I promise you won't regret it.  There  are a lot of dark currents and a lot of action but the best is the  interaction between hero and anti-hero.  With Tarrant around, you don't  even need the villain, but then again, if the villain didn't exist, Tarrant  wouldn't become the amazing hero he is!	2000-08-03
US	49568439	RZD2UVK5NHV38	0886778247	174499108	Green Rider (Green Rider Trilogy Book 1)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A fun read!	Once again it has been proved to me that an attractive cover IS a good judge of a book.  I picked this one off the library shelf in a hurry,  inside flap unread, because the cover art caught my eye and I was in a rush  because my sis is not known for her great patience.  I am happy to say that  judging the book by the cover, in this case, did me no harm but a lot of  good.  It was fun reading!  The beginning is harmless and light fantasy  stuff, entertaining but hardly gripping, yet as the story progresses it  picks up pace, and by the second half I was glued to the pages.  That  tantalizing hint of romance-to-come in the ending makes me very curious to  read the sequel.  I am also so glad that unlike a lot of other new  fantasies, there was no obligatory excessive gore, no droning on and on  about the scenery, but still giving you a fine sense of setting, and even  better: decency!  Thank God!  There has been such a prolific amount of sex  rampaging through fantasies these days that I've been despairing of ever  finding a &quot;nice&quot;, slightly romantic fantasy devoid of all that.   But enough of my requirements, let me simply say without further ado, that  this was a good book with the key word being &quot;promising&quot; and that  I was SO disappointed to find that this is the first-and-only book by  author Kirsten Britain.  Hope she changes that soon!	2000-08-03
US	49568439	R3NX02A68TJG3L	0441006698	730572933	Exile	Books	2	9	12	N	N	So-so	It was readable but I did almost give it up at one point in boredom.  Neve's &quot;strength&quot; is her adamant and childish desire to become the next Guardian, so whenever she rises to the occasion so to say, you  have to read through her spoiled-brat resolve, but otherwise she's an okay  kid.  I admit that I didn't find the story at all romantic.  I disliked  Ash, the &quot;hero&quot;, too much.  I had just finished rereading  Guardians' Key in happy anticipation of this sequel, and I guess that was a  big mistake, because it reinforced standards, and made Gespry, the  monkey-demon, much too fresh in my mind for me to digest Ash in a romantic  light(he's a sailor with monkey-like feet and Gespry's way of talking).  It  was like reading a version where Dara hooks up with Gespry, except that I  liked Dara better than Neve, and the setting of Guardians' Key was  obviously more fascinating, as was the plot.  When I was finally done with  this book I did have a question: why doesn't Neve seem to consider herself  Dara's daughter?  Sure she thinks of Dara as 'mother', but when she thinks  along the lines of who's child she is, she always thinks of the Nexus and  Vanian.  (BTW: It WAS nice having a few scenes with him in, though I wish  those scenes included Dara, since I so love the way they interact).   I'm  sure I've by now made it evident that my liking for Guardians' Key has  perhaps made Exile so disappointing, but Exile doesn't just suffer in  comparison.  The plain fact is that Exile is not a &quot;good book&quot;.   It's not exactly horrible though either.  Still, I suggest you merely  reread Guardians' Key if you want to revisit the Crystal Keep and reread  Lord Vanian and Dara's adventure if you want a fragile romance.	2000-07-27
US	49568439	RXNDF1M7PV74O	0886776090	325059269	Sable, Shadow and Ice	Books	5	7	7	N	N	I really loved this book.  It haunts.	Somehow the story won't leave me and every once in a while I return it, to re-meet Aroha aka Andrew and Marisa all over again.  I haven't ever read a book with the same emotional feel and deep imagery as this one.  All of the  characters are complex, are struggling, are flawed.  Andrew was an  interesting hero, being the most complex of the lot.  Marisa made a great  heroine, she was easy to identify with amd she felt things strongly,  without being handicapped.  And most amazing was how important she was to  the outcome, how unexpected her role was.  The ending was sad and kind of  sweet.  It was a great book.  I'm hoping that Cheryl J. Franklin will write  another non-tech SciFi-fantasy book, like this one.	2000-07-27
US	49568439	RE79V4FYBA1TL	0553277944	79110751	The Widows Club (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	YAY!  More Ellie!	You have to read this, if just for the hilarious wedding of our dearly beloved couple from The Thin Woman: Bentley T Haskell and Ellie Simons!  This book is so many laughs and the Tramwell sisters from Down the Garden  Path show up in their roles as FLowers Detection Agency.  The murderer was  a real surprise and the clues were clever, but as always it is the sheer  delight of the characters that make up the heart of the story.  It's a real  joy to read, so treat yourself to it!	2000-07-27
US	49568439	RMFPTXFKIQEJ6	0886777305	633895046	The Mageborn Traitor (Exiles, Vol. 2)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	Tantalizing	It was wonderful reading more from the world of Exiles: the Ruins of Ambrai.  Melanie Rawn pulls off the upside-down order of things with skill and aplomb.  She has created a world where the women are in charge and the  men need to start a movement akin to the Feminist one in our world if they  are to protect their rights.  (Being a complex and very intricate book,  this is just the setting and not the plot)  She makes it convincing because  she doesn't just switch roles but she adapts and experiments, finely  distinguishing the differences of man and woman and how they would react in  reversed situations.  But besides all that, there are the characters I have  come to care so very much for: well-loved Collan, struggling Cailet, and  the more self-possessed and clever Sarra.  The mystery of the mageborn  traitor had me despairing and on the very edge of my seat, my suspicions  lurching from left to right, until my convictions were contradictory and I  was as frustrated and confused as Cailet was over the secrets of Josselyn  and Jored.  This book, as most of Rawn's work, was a bit too adult for 16  year old me, being too lusty and loose for my comfort, but I will admit  once more that Ms. Rawn knows how to create a world with great detail.   Names of characters can get confusing because there are so many minor ones  that will continue to pop up, but the author has thoughtfully provided  much-needed glossaries about names and patron-saints.   I laughed, cried,  became furious and despaired over the course of this book, which is no more  than I have come to expect from the author since reading her Dragon  trilogies.  The book will leave you with a lot of questions, foremost ones  about dear Collan.  I am now waiting for Captal's Tower, the anticipated  third book, but I hear it shall be a very long wait indeed.  Cruel, cruel,  but atleast this gives us time to reread the first (and very thick) books  many times prior to Captal Towers' publication.<br />PS: as an indication of  Melanie Rawn's wonderful writing ability, I'd just like to add that not  only did I love the book, but I loved the Author's Note too!  I laughed  very hard and it is possibly my favorite part! :)	2000-07-27
US	49568439	R1PYT2LJ6817EK	0679889159	237644619	Page (Protector of the Small, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	When can I get my hands on the next one?	This book was great!  More Kel, more Neal, more Cleon, and some new kids too, like Owen, who's immediately likable.  The years passed by in a flash and now I'm dying to know who will take Kel on as his squire?  Sir Raoul?   I don't think Alanna would just yet since Kel is still in a sense proving  herself and you want her to stand on her own two feet- but I could be  wrong.  Also, will Neal reciprocate Kel's feelings?  And if he does, will  it be another passing-by Jon-and-Alanna kind of thing, or the more lasting  attraction of Numair &amp; Daine? (BTW: someone miscounted Neal's beauties.   It's just Daine, Uline and the Queen! :)   The big question is: what in  the world is Joren up to?  I don't trust him one whit.  He is way too  suspicious; but what taught him subtlety?   Tuck in and enjoy!  Too bad  it's so short.  Let's hope the next will be longer and that it comes out  real soon!	2000-07-27
US	49568439	R1M80VQ5MQ8T1O	0553286862	302962227	Mum's the Word (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	15	18	N	N	Absolutely Adored It!	Oh to have Ellie's wit and narrative powers!  Dorothy Cannell does a superb job with another Ellie Haskell mystery, this one every bit as fun as the ones before, if not more!  It was delicious having Ellie visit the  States and reading her reactions to its vastness and people.  The clever  little plot was devious and interesting, a mystery revolving around the  expose of a famous actress in best-seller Monster Mommy.  More delightful  characters!  I don't know how Mrs. Cannell does it, but her creations are  an ongoing pleasure!  I mean, here's a sample of who you'll meet (they're  all contestants for some cookery Mange):  Kid Prodigy named Bingo and his  fashion-less mother, French countess and magician husband, goodhearted  cooking witch who makes love potions, and a nice, warm housewife with a  broody and paranoid husband.  Then there are noncontestants, such as  Valicia X, and the infamous, scandalous Theola Faith, and wretched daughter  Mary.  Then you've got the setting of a Gothic atrocity used in a movie  called Melancholy Mansion (which, yes, had starred Theola Faith) and a  narrow-minded town called Mud Creek with more eccentric characters,  including a Diethologic reverend. This mystery is cunningly appropriate for  a pregnant woman (Ellie) and is a successful farce.  Do read it!	2000-07-27
US	49568439	R3UEA2YBLIJ5YO	0886777178	870845551	Crown of Shadows (The Coldfire Trilogy, Book 3)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Absolutely a must for  those reading the Coldfire Trilogy	Oh but you utterly cannot skip this most important, conclusive book in the trilogy.  It's got wonderful twists, some heart-wrenching scenes, more excitement, some sorrow, and a heck of a lot of surprises.  I loved it,  truly!  Some more great Tarrant-Damien stuff, though there is a new (but  known) main character which takes up a few scenes.  I was a bit impatient  with that character becoz by then I was attached to Damien and Tarrant and  just wanted to know what happened to them, who cares about anyone else, but  that character is crucial to the ending and stuff, so don't skip his part  until you're rereading! :)   Anyway, the end of the book is pretty  emotional (for the reader) and like someone else said, I was crying AND  laughing at the end.  Adored it.  Adored all of these books actually.  So  do read it and buy it if you are so lucky as to be able.  These books are  so easy to reread again and again.<br />P.S.: Has anyone noticed that really  cool and hilarious note among the copyright page, which says normally  enough at first: this is a work of fiction.  any resemblence to characters  living or UNDEAD is coincidence (or blah-blah).  It cracked me up!  Check  it out.	2000-07-18
US	49568439	R1GG782T2SMMYB	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Really really great	I've read the first three Harry Potter books ofcourse, and enjoyed them alot, but it was this book that turned me into a Harry Potter fan!  No other author than JK Rowling could write 734 pages worth of story and have  kids finish it in two days!  I love fat books and always prefer having a  fantasy pages 400+, but even though I've read a lot of really good (and  really fat) fantasies, this is absolutely the first fat book to have NO  boring or slow or less than riveting parts and this reads like a short  story.  You don't even realize how long it is because everything moves so  fast.  What I love about Rowling is that even though teens, middle-aged  adults and older all are hooked by this book, it's not because it's  &quot;too adult&quot; for children, but because it is beautifully  &quot;ageless&quot;.	2000-07-17
US	49568439	R2QUNT3TDJX2SG	0553291955	954709557	The Thin Woman (Ellie Haskell)	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Definitely Reccommend This Book	Not only is it a lot of fun trampling about in search of hidden treasure, but it's such a cosy, light-hearted and well paced book with moments of snorting hilarity and chortling humor.  The cast is utterly adorable; the  plot terribly enchanting and very mod-fairy tale.  Ellie says some of the  most delightful things written, Ben is perfectly drawn, and Dorus was very  chipper and jolly.  Really, this is something of a must read.  Exactly  appeals to the female nature.	2000-07-11
US	49568439	R2CIMU6UV7MJDA	0886776155	723082796	When True Night Falls (Coldfire Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	I'm going to cry!	Don't ask my why.  This book is very emotional and intense and very action-packed, and the end, well, the end made me cry.  I don't want to give anything away, but let's just say that this book  gets you attached to  the characters and to feel the desperation of certain situations, and so,  when something sad happens, it's very very sad.  But I'm giving a wrong  impression.  This book is far from a tragedy.  It's the fast-paced sequel  to Black Sun Rising, that most excellent of books, though this one is  better, being more effective.  In this book you learn a lot more about  Erna, sacrifices, the turning of Tarrant: how a man revered as  &quot;prophet&quot; could become the &quot;Hunter&quot; a vampire-like  adept.  I adore passages in this book that were so descriptive that I was  there alongside the characters and the dialogue between Damien and Tarrant,  those antagonistic allies, - well those are priceless. I keep rereading  chapters over and over, getting a thrill over how closely attached I feel  to this world and this cast.  The mix of theology with SF and fantasy (even  a skillful dab of horror) kept the story original in a genre that is  afflicted with formulaic creations.  The author's imagination in creating  the fae and a character so utterly &quot;cool&quot; but complex as Tarrant  (the Hunter) is pretty astounding.  If I've convinced you that this book is  as great as it is, then you must first read Black Sun Rising and after  reading this one, read Crown of Shadows.  I assure you, the Coldfire  Trilogy is worth it.	2000-06-28
US	49568439	RUBA8UN1JFRWP	0446607010	401508883	The False House	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A  real charmer!	This book is an absolute gem.  The characters are incredibly delightful and very likable replete with all sorts of odd quirks in their personalities.  The setting, The High House (Evenmere) and the multiple  brilliant and varied countries within the White Circle, and the False  House, a bizarre ordered counterpart to Evenmere,were absolutely  fascinating!  I was riveted by the details of my(imaginary)surroundings and  found this book as full of charm and quaintness as its predecessor, The  High House. Yet James Stoddard has outdone himself.  While I found the  first book vastly original and entertaining, this second one is evidently  superior, with a wider cast of lovable main characters(I adore Carter's  wife, Sarah)and a plot more driven and un-put-down-able!  This is an  irresistable book, and that's &quot;a scientific fact, like osmosis and  steam engines&quot; to quote my fave character!  So read this book for it  is well worth it, and buy this book for it is much deserved, and I don't  doubt that you will enjoy it quite as much as I did.	2000-06-27
US	49568439	R20YXSQ49507II	1575662442	234808980	Country Comes To Town: A Laura Fleming Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Very Interesting	This book wasn't as cute as the one right before (Trouble Looking For a Place To Happen)because Laura's funny husband Richard was not there in person, and only Thaddeus of the Byerly relations was present (the story  taking place in Boston), but I found the mystery more gripping.  Richard  still features in it via phone calls and quotes more than Shakespeare, and  you meet a suspicious, unbreakable group of Laura's former college friends,  who have started a very elite and self-destructive company (SSI).  The  characters had more history and motive than previous Laura Fleming books,  and an uncomfortable relationship that in ways made it more disconcerting  investigating them for murder than it would be investigating friends (such  as in Down Home Murder).  Anyway, this book was pretty good and this series  is quickly developing into a Southern delight.   Oh, BTW, Thaddeus gets a  Yankee girlfriend!	2000-06-02
US	49568439	R2Z0U3D1CHR6LB	0312890559	771783313	In Legend Born	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Vivid story	I am very impatiently waiting for the sequel (have been for a year now).  Even though it's been awhile since I last read this book, I still remember it clearly due to the vivid writing style, and the colorful and realistic  characters.  Just recalling it makes me impatient for In Fire Forged, and  starts me wondering about the fates of the main characters all over again.   The heroes have their weaknesses and yet the story does not get bogged down  with heros' problems, self-recriminations and so on.  The pacing keeps the  excitement going and the whole 'cause' is believable and worthy.   The only  reason why a star is missing in this review is because one development in  the story I found unneccessary and off-putting.  This development, however,  does not ruin the book.   So read and enjoy!	2000-05-23
US	49568439	R97YFD2NHVLRT	0441006868	666787553	Galveston: A Novel	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Uh...WHOA	I have just this past moment finished this book, so you'll have to forgive me for being a little overwhelmed here.  I won't be very intelligibile, so newly released from a book that has held me so emotionally tight, and so  am, quite frankly, reeling.   Hmm...do I reccommend it?  That's a tricky  question.  Rating it five stars for 1)vivid prose, 2)living characters,  3)gripping emotion, 4)effective storyline and 5)excellent execution, is one  thing but...dare I thrust this shocking, draining book upon an unsuspecting  amazon customer?   Can't say I'm sure.   In my humble opinion Sean Stewart  is a mixed blessing.   You have to admire/respect his imagination and skill  but personally I quail before his ability to hold me fast in sympathy with  characters I don't even identify with, and that knack he has sometimes of  stripping them bare until YOU are feeling exposed and almost sick with  empathy. (Er, sorry, make the emphatic 'you' read 'me')   His is a harsh  treatment.  Sometimes beautiful, sometimes twisted, it has this stamp of  being so brutally real that one feels it is the truth and the life you lead  is the fantasy.  I don't know how he manages it!  It may be due to the way  its a contemporary novel  (though strictly speaking it's futuristic).   An  added discomfort for me is that he has a few characters who swear a good  deal, but I'm sure this won't bother anyone else.  That ruthless (or maybe  wholly compassionate?) unveiling of an infirm character, that robbing of  someone's pride, well, that's very effective and shocking too.   I spent  the whole day reading this book completely enthralled - not always  pleasantly.  I believe it is brilliant.  Creative, bold, real, tightly  wrought, thoughtful...you name it.   I also think that you have to be  really brave to read it.  'Course that could just be because I'm a young  and naive coward.   Told you I wouldn't make much sense.   Nevertheless, I  hope I have imparted to you the fact that I was moved in a million painful  ways by this exciting book.  (Somehow I cared so much for those lousy  people!)   So, if you are willing to give it a try and start an unique  experience, I say pick up the darned book!  After all: &quot;it just  doesn't get better than this!&quot;   Hee, hee, hee...(those who have read  Galveston will appreciate my evil chuckle and quote)	2000-05-19
US	49568439	RZCE2XXNHGQOV	0515106534	826013597	Spy Wore Red	Books	5	5	8	N	N	This was a lot of fun!	And the amazing thing is that all of it happened in real life!  I mean, this is movie stuff - pure drama, great pace, witty dialogue and very strong, very interesting characters.  With all the glamor of titles and good looks, and all the excitement of quick thinking and dangerous enemies!   This is really very delightful and easy to read, once you start, you can't  really stop for longer than a food break until you're done!  I warn you as  one reader to another, that you will irritate family and friends by  shutting yourself up with it, and you won't get any sleep became you'll be  too awake and forget the time in all the action!  Very recommended, do read  this!	2000-05-10
US	49568439	R2ZF8YYV4OWA49	0886775981	551793199	To Green Angel Tower, Part 1 (Memory, Sorrow, and Thorn, Book 3)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	A Humanized Tolkien	I am trying to read the LOTR trilogy, but am finding it somewhat difficult because it is pure fantasy in the sense that it is about races other than our own: hobbits and dwarves and the like.  It makes for entertaining read  but I miss the shared involvement I got when reading these books by Tad  Williams.  I loved the Memory, Sorrow and Thorn trilogy because the writing  was truly superb, and classical.  The description of Osten Ard was real and  provocative.  When I think of To Green Angel Tower, I can feel the cold air  of the unending winter brought upon by the Storm King, and I can see the  delicately wrought Green Angel Tower, and the hidden halls that Maegwin  discovered, and the ragged rebel army gathered on the Stone of Farewell,  the parting place of the legendary Sithi and Norns, cheering and making  merry for each small victory.  I loved Tad Williams' characterizations most  of all.  Each of his characters were individuals, leaving a different  imprint on mind and heart, and easily brought to life due to the excellency  of its drawing.  Scholarly, defeated Prince Joshua, not understood by his  honest followers, with his odd sense of humor and his strong ethics.  Simon  the former scullion, still full of ideals and a strange mix of experience  and unexpected-humble- wisdom.  More than the usual &quot;naive hero&quot;.   But there are too many characters to get into detail. There is Miriamele,  the runaway princess who has grown painfully during her adventures,  Cadrach, her companion, a false monk who has connections to the League of  the Scroll, and lost his faith in all, Binabik, a little mountain troll of  surprising knowledge, who is utterly adorable and rides a tame wolf, Duke  Isgrimnur, of a Viking-like clan, cutting off pagan oaths for his newer  religion adopted when he served the great Prester John, Sithi Prince Jiriki  and his sister Aditu, the young of an ancient fey, with a fascinatingly  bizarre manner, and Tiamak, an educated, determined small swamp man who  lives in the backwater marshes and holds a key to the Leagues' mystery, and  Maegwin, struggling daughter of a dead cheiftain, ruler of a broken, noble  people, and Vorsheva, a vivid, fiery, brave woman, and Elias, the weakened  tyrant king, lost in his own sorrows, wanting desperately that which he has  lost (his dead wife), slowly being ruined by his sorcerous, hairless,  scarlet-robed advisor Pyrates.  And of course many many more!   If you want  high fantasy, a richly detailed world with a history that incorporates our  legends, and a magic that is not raw power blazing out of finger tips, but  a mystic touch and a boundless imagination, then you really must read these  books.  It starts with the Dragonbone Chair, goes on with the Stone of  Farewell and ends here, To Green Angel Tower.  If you have already read the  other books then read this one too, and don't let the huge size stop you!   Unlike Robert Jordan and sadly many other fantasy authors, Tad Williams is  forever going forwards, maturing his characters and covering vast chapters  of quest, making his every word worthwhile (and this is the biggest book he  has written yet).  So don't hesitate if you want something classical, but  full of human emotions, and delight in a finely crafted tale.	2000-05-08
