US	49580421	R2JYWQMAXY2XX4	0821776142	38681798	Wanting Something More (Stepp Sisters, Book 3)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Strong ending to a terrific trilogy	I have been eagerly awaiting Marty Stepp's story and like the previous books in Kathy Love's Stepp Sisters trilogy, Wanting Something more was another heartfelt and humorous read.<br /><br />Marty is coming home to Millbrook, Maine. It's storming out and the first person she encounters is her nemesis and most hated citizen of Millbrook, Nathaniel Peck. He once hurt and embarrassed her horribly in high school, starting what would be one of her first disappointments with the male species. She's not any happier to encounter him on the stormy night. But... something's different about him, and the more time she spends in Millbrook, getting reacquainted with the town, the more she is coming to find out that something changed the night he was attacked in his home.<br /><br />For his part, Nate would love to get to know Marty. She's smart, sassy, beautiful of course, what model isn't, but beneath her jaded exterior, he senses a soul just as vulnerable and lonely as his own. He wants to prove to her, to all of Millbrook, that he has changed, that he's no longer the jackass they knew and hated. He also wants to find out who attacked him, for his own piece of mind. What will happen between these two? Well, you'll have to read to find out!<br /><br />If you've read the first two stories in this trilogy, you know that missing Marty's story would be a grave mistake. Once again, Ms. Love has created a story with a very sensual thrust, while at the same time, creating a deep and abiding love. This is really a true romance at heart. And besides, who can resist a story where the heroine once detested the hero? Nate's tale is tragic, but it is what he has made of his life since that night that shows what a great man he is. I fell a bit in love with him myself. The one qualm I had was that it seemed like he had become TOO good, in order to make up for being so cruel before. He turned almost too perfect, but I suppose that isn't necessarily a bad thing in a romance story. He was still a great guy, a soft touch, and a man willing to do anything for the woman he loves.<br /><br />I was very happy with the subtle nuances of this story, and especially with Marty's quest to change her own life around, to become someone she could respect. Her story is a nonstop page-turner.<br /><br />You won't want to pass on this story! I guarantee it. The great thing is though, whether or not you've read the first to Stepp sisters stories, you'll still be able to understand this story quite clearly, something most romance fans will appreciate.till a great guy, a soft touch, and a man willing to do anything for the woman he loves. <br /> <br />I was very happy with the subtle nuances of this story, and especially with Marty's quest to change her own life around, to become someone she could respect. Her story is a nonstop page-turner. <br /> <br />You won't want to pass on this story! I guarantee it. The great thing is though, whether or not you've read the first to Stepp sisters stories, you'll still be able to understand this story quite clearly, something most romance fans will appreciate.	2005-07-07
US	49580421	R1CPL45T4YQYX7	0345476255	397813117	To Die For (Blair Mallory)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	One of her best in a long time!	I've been anxiously awaiting To Die For for quite a long time and I have to say, I wasn't let down. This book was a hoot and the heroine, Blair Mallory was a pleasure to get to know.<br /><br />After witnessing a murder at the gym she owns, Great Bods, Blair is drawn back into the life of police Lieutenant J.W. Bloodsworth, a man who dumped her two years ago after only three dates. She's still mad and isn't about to let him get the best of her.<br /><br />But Wyatt knows that Blair is the woman for him. Though he once backed away from her, knowing she would be too high maintenance, when he hears about the murder at Great Bods, he's stunned and fearful that it could be the sassy Blair who was the victim. He's very relieved to find out that Blair is safe and sound, but now he knows he has to ensure that she stays that way. She was the only witness to the murder, thus it's more than likely that she might be the next victim.<br /><br />Wyatt hustles her into his house where he can protect her, while she proceeds to drive him up the wall. Though they grow closer the more time they spend together, the case is going no where fast. There are no clues, no witnesses and it looks like that Blair might have been the intended victim in the first place. How will they solve this and keep Blair safe? Will Wyatt be able to prove that this time around he's going to stick?<br /><br />To Die For is very reminiscent of Howard's story Mr. Perfect. There is lots of humor, lots of romance, and a good mystery. This book is written in the first person point of view however, so the only thoughts the reader gets are those of Blair. Despite this, Blair is a great character with lots of witty asides and plenty of sass to keep the novel rolling through its almost 400 pages.<br /><br />This is not a typical romance for Howard however. There are no hot and heavy love scenes, which have become trademarks of Linda Howard's books in the past. Blair doesn't go into the details, but there is still plenty of romance between these characters, it's just not what the reader has come to expect from Howard.<br /><br />The secondary characters of Wyatt's mother and Blair's family are also wonderful additions to this story, adding to the humor and to the zaniness that is so much a part of Blair's world.<br /><br />The one criticism I have is the fact that Blair's perkiness can get a bit annoying part way through the novel. I just wanted to tell her to tone it down a bit at certain points.<br /><br />Despite this though, I was thrilled with this novel, especially after how disappointed I was with Kiss Me While I Sleep. Though it's not serious drama that many readers have come to expect from Howard, it is a great story that will hold your attention from the first page to the last. I am hoping that Howard might write more about these characters as I think Blair and Wyatt have more stories to tell.till plenty of romance between these characters, it's just not what the reader has come to expect from Howard.  <br /> <br />The secondary characters of Wyatt's mother and Blair's family are also wonderful additions to this story, adding to the humor and to the zaniness that is so much a part of Blair's world. <br /> <br />The one criticism I have is the fact that Blair's perkiness can get a bit annoying part way through the novel. I just wanted to tell her to tone it down a bit at certain points.  <br /> <br />Despite this though, I was thrilled with this novel, especially after how disappointed I was with Kiss Me While I Sleep. Though it's not serious drama that many readers have come to expect from Howard, it is a great story that will hold your attention from the first page to the last. I am hoping that Howard might write more about these characters as I think Blair and Wyatt have more stories to tell.  <br />	2004-12-30
US	49580421	RR14LFQGTW893	0385338252	453044037	The Immortal Highlander	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Adam was magnificient!	I've been waiting for Adam's story for what seems like ages, in reality, only a couple of years. I was worried how it would play out, but I have to say, it was wonderful. KMM just continues to improve as a writer and storyteller and Adam's story proves that not only can she write erotic romance, but she can spin a good story too, filled with all the things we'd expect in fairy tales and time travel stories.<br /><br />Gabrielle O'Callaghan can see the Fae. It's a gift she's had to hide her entire life, but when she catches a glimpse of oh so sexy Adam Black, she can't help giving him a second glance, which he notices.<br /><br />Adam has been punished by the Queen of the Faery for helping the MacKelters, humans. He's now a human himself. When he realizes Gabby can see him, he convinces her to help him in his quest to gain Queen Aoibahel's attention. He uses whatever means necessary to gain her help, and in the process both start to feel things that they've never felt before. In Adam's case, he's never felt human emotions, and now he can't help wanting Gabrielle more passionately than he's ever wanted any woman before. Soon their quest begins, taking them on adventures in Ohio and Scotland. In the process, both start to fall deeply in love. But Adam is immortal and Gabby's human... how can they ever hope to be together?<br /><br />KMM answers a lot of questions in this book that have been raised in her previous Highlander books. She also leaves plenty of questions unanswered that hopefully will be answered in upcoming Highlander stories.<br /><br />The Immortal Highlander really is KMM's best work to date. It's steamy and sexy and everything you'd expect from the Black Fairy. Adam was truly a memorable character and she did a wonderful job of showing his growth from arrogant fairy prince to humble human man in love.<br /><br />Gabby was also a great heroine. I love KMM's heroines because they are all strong capable women who do great on their own, but when they meet the Highlanders of their dreams, they manage to show their vulnerabilities a bit more. Gabby has never quite fit in anywhere her entire life, due to her ability to see the Fae, but when she meets Adam, she finally meets someone who can share her life with her and understand what she's gone through in life.<br /><br />From beginning to end, I was impressed with the story Karen Marie Moning weaved. The ending was just superb, something I didn't see coming at all, though in hindsight I should have as there were a lot of clues.<br /><br />If you're a fan of KMM's previous works, then run to get your hands on a copy of The Immortal Highlander. If you're new to KMM, this book is a great place to start, though reading the previous stories might help to understand this story.en they meet the Highlanders of their dreams, they manage to show their vulnerabilities a bit more. Gabby has never quite fit in anywhere her entire life, due to her ability to see the Fae, but when she meets Adam, she finally meets someone who can share her life with her and understand what she's gone through in life. <br /> <br />From beginning to end, I was impressed with the story Karen Marie Moning weaved. The ending was just superb, something I didn't see coming at all, though in hindsight I should have as there were a lot of clues. <br /> <br />If you're a fan of KMM's previous works, then run to get your hands on a copy of The Immortal Highlander. If you're new to KMM, this book is a great place to start, though reading the previous stories might help to understand this story.	2004-08-12
US	49580421	R23XF84GY14O4P	0373691874	369212844	Underneath It All	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Fun, sexy, and an entertaining read!	Nancy Warren has done it again. She just keeps getting better and better and her latest Harlequin Temptation Underneath it All showcases her talent.<br /><br />When Darren Kaiser becomes Manhattan's most sought after bachelor, he needs to escape. He can't stand the women chasing him, leaving him flowers and candy and proposing to him. He wants out of it all, so he quits Kaiser Image Makers, his father's company, and moves incognito to Seattle where he starts working on his computer programming business, designing a program to help children learn to read.<br /><br />Below his apartment lives Kate Monahan, a beauty consultant and high school drop out. She is busy saving all the money she can in order to finish high school and then move on to college. She isn't thrilled with her new neighbor Dean (aka Darren). He seems to be a bit of a jerk, ignoring her polite greetings and acting like... well like a dork. He wears bright Hawaiin print shirts and has thick glasses and she can't get over the impression that she has seen him somewhere.<br /><br />Soon though, Kate sees that underneath it all, Dean is a great guy. They build up a strong friendship, but both can't help the strong attraction they have to each other. On the night of her birthday party, things reach a boiling point between them and they make love. They can't get enough of each other, and Darren finds that he wants to relinquish his bachelor status if only Kate will agree to stay in his life. But he knows time is running short. What if she finds out the truth, that dorky Dean is really hunky and rich playboy Darren Kaiser? Will she still love him?<br /><br />What I really loved about this book was how natural the relationship between Darren and Kate was. They started off as friends but saw that they desired something more with each other. This was not a rushed relationship, Nancy Warren did a great job of showing their evolving relationship. I also just plain loved the characters. Kate was so determined to make herself better, to try to improver her life, even after some bad breaks. Darren wanted to be there to help her. He might have started off as a playboy, but by the end of the book it was obvious what a caring and loving man he was. He had just never let that side of him show.<br /><br />This was a great read, very fast, but very enjoyable. Nancy Warren has joined my list of must-buy romance writers.ined to make herself better, to try to improver her life, even after some bad breaks. Darren wanted to be there to help her. He might have started off as a playboy, but by the end of the book it was obvious what a caring and loving man he was. He had just never let that side of him show. <br /> <br />This was a great read, very fast, but very enjoyable. Nancy Warren has joined my list of must-buy romance writers.	2004-08-09
US	49580421	R1EE0A12HNAZ7X	0060096160	664876635	Teen Idol (Teen's Top 10 (Awards))	Books	3	7	13	N	N	Where did Cabot go wrong?	I'll be honest, I just wasn't that impressed with Teen Idol. I enjoyed All-American Girl so much more. I felt it was a much more interesting and fun book.<br /><br />Teen Idol involves Jen Greenley who is everyone's best friend basically. She is the perfect girl-next-door who everyone likes and who is nice to everyone. She also happens to be the Clayton High School's answer girl, Ask Annie, but nobody knows. One day she is called to the principal's office and told she that teen celebrity Luke Striker is going to be following her around for two weeks as a transfer student, in order to better understand real life high school for his upcoming movie role.<br /><br />With the arrival of Luke, Jen's life goes insane. She is forced to keep a major secret from her best friend Trina and on top of it all, Luke begins lecturing her about becoming a force for social changes in high school. She doesn't take him seriously until his identity becomes known and her entire high school freaks out. Suddenly, Jen isn't the perfect student, now she is saying what she thinks, even if it hurts her best friend, or she is helping the unpopular girl Cara, in order to help her have a more pleasant high school experience. Jen really does become a force to be reckoned with.<br /><br />The things I did like about Teen Idol include Jen. At first she seemed too perfect, a goody-two-shoes in a way. But, once Luke got to her, she changed for the better. She really did try to help others and not just placidly sit by while her classmates were being made fun of. She took Luke's ideas to heart and I think really did help Clayton High.<br /><br />I also liked Luke. He was a great character. He definitely wasn't the cliched Hollywood teen actor. He cared about Jen as a friend and wanted to see her help others and herself, even if it meant shaking things up a bit. Meg Cabot didn't portray him as a stuck up jerk, but just as a normal guy who had had a bit of luck with acting. He was my favorite character in the entire story.<br /><br />I also enjoyed the honesty with which Cabot portrayed high school. She really did have an accurate image of what goes on in contemporary high schools, from the bullying to the wannabes to the different cliques.<br /><br />Things I didn't like include Trina. I thought she was an immature snotty brat who didn't act like a best friend at all. I understand that friends have fights and get mad at each other, but when it comes right down to it, you stick up for your friends and you try to help them. She leaves Jen out to hang on her own, getting yelled at by her choir teacher and verbally abused by choir members. She is the worst best friend I have ever seen written in a book, she really just seemed very uncaring and selfish.<br /><br />I also didn't like the storyline involving Betty Ann. I won't go into it all, but I have to say, I felt really bad for that teacher. I'm so glad Jen saved the day in the end. It was a horrible prank and I thought it really proved how careless and mean people can be.<br /><br />Overall, I didn't think this story had the same humor or good plot that the Princess Diaries, All-American Girl, or her many other titles have had. I am glad I didn't buy it in hardcover and that I rented it from the library. I will probably buy it in paperback just because Cabot is a favorite author of mine, but I feel buying it in hardcover is a waste of money.<br /><br />Nevertheless, it was a pleasing read that if you can get your hands on a copy, should be entertaining for an hour or two.acter in the entire story. <br /> <br />I also enjoyed the honesty with which Cabot portrayed high school. She really did have an accurate image of what goes on in contemporary high schools, from the bullying to the wannabes to the different cliques. <br /> <br />Things I didn't like include Trina. I thought she was an immature snotty brat who didn't act like a best friend at all. I understand that friends have fights and get mad at each other, but when it comes right down to it, you stick up for your friends and you try to help them. She leaves Jen out to hang on her own, getting yelled at by her choir teacher and verbally abused by choir members. She is the worst best friend I have ever seen written in a book, she really just seemed very uncaring and selfish. <br /> <br />I also didn't like the storyline involving Betty Ann. I won't go into it all, but I have to say, I felt really bad for that teacher. I'm so glad Jen saved the day in the end. It was a horrible prank and I thought it really proved how careless and mean people can be. <br /> <br />Overall, I didn't think this story had the same humor or good plot that the Princess Diaries, All-American Girl, or her many other titles have had. I am glad I didn't buy it in hardcover and that I rented it from the library. I will probably buy it in paperback just because Cabot is a favorite author of mine, but I feel buying it in hardcover is a waste of money.  <br /> <br />Nevertheless, it was a pleasing read that if you can get your hands on a copy, should be entertaining for an hour or two.	2004-08-07
US	49580421	R34UKQD9VD1JXZ	0373124104	139920133	The Sheikh's Convenient Bride (The O'Connells) (Harlequin Presents #2410)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Romance Junkies says...	Sarah at Romance Junkies says: &quot;Sandra Marton has another hit with THE SHEIKH'S CONVENIENT BRIDE. Each story in the O'Connell saga gets better and better and Megan and Qasim's love story is no different. The sparks leap off the page when these two characters are together and it is obvious that they feel more than desire for each other, though they are wary of admitting it. This is a powerful story that examines a woman's role in a country that believes women should be submissive, and though this isn't the main focus of the story by any means, it definitely is examined through Megan. Nevertheless, it is love that makes this story so great, and THE SHEIKH'S CONVENIENT BRIDE is a truly remarkable love story.&quot;	2004-08-03
US	49580421	RR02DWMESOSHC	0758205856	44760340	Bad Boys Down Under (Bad Boys Series)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Wonderful stories of some passionate Australians	Bad Boys Down Under is one of the best Bad Boys books I've read in awhile. I'm a big fan of Brava's Bad Boys themed books, but as of late none of them have really caught my attention. Well, that all changed with Nancy Warren's latest book. Each story in this book had me hooked from the first page to the last and I thought each story was truly original and entertaining.<br />My personal favorite of the three stories, \\"Sizzling in Sydney\\" was the first of the book. It features marketing wizard Jennifer Talbot and surfboard millionaire Cameron Crane. Cam knows he needs Jen's help with his campaign to provide surf boards to the U.S., he just never knew how much he would come to want sexy Jen for herself. Unfortunately, there are a few problems standing in their way, not the least of which is Jen's engagement to another man. Will Cam and Jen find their happily-ever-after?<br />Like I said, this was my favorite of the book. Jen and Cam were great couples and Cam was an amazing hero. He was sweet, funny, and not afraid to prove to Jen that he was the man for her. There were lots of laughs in this story, along with Nancy Warren's trademark sensuality. A great story that will satisfy any reader.<br />\\"Surfer Boy\\" is the second story in this book, and it is another great read. Steel worker Steve Jackson has taken a part time modeling career with Crane surfboards, to promote the boards in California. He arrives in California and has quite the first encounter with ad executive Lise Atwater. From then on, the heat just keeps going up as these two great characters fall desperately in love. But how will they be able to stay together, when they live on opposite ends of the world.<br />This was a great story too. You will not be let down as you see these two characters drop their masks in order to find happiness with each other.<br />The last story is \\"The Great Barrier\\" and yet again, this is a superb example of Nancy Warren's story telling abilities. Mark Forsythe is feeling down since his ex-fiancee, Jen Talbot, dumped him for Cameron Crane. He's determined to drop his good boy image and live it up in Australia because he doesn't think he has anything to lose. Women don't seem to like the good guys in life. Bronwyn Spencer is assigned by her half-brother Cameron Crane to watch over Mark while he's in Australia. She just never realized how attracted she was going to be to the accountant.<br />This is probably the steamiest of the stories, but yet again, it is filled with emotions and lots of love and laughter. There isn't a story in this collection that will leave you disappointed. I can only hope that future \\"Bad Boys\\" titles live up to Nancy Warren's Bad Boys Down Under.since his ex-fiancee, Jen Talbot, dumped him for Cameron Crane. He's determined to drop his good boy image and live it up in Australia because he doesn't think he has anything to lose. Women don't seem to like the good guys in life. Bronwyn Spencer is assigned by her half-brother Cameron Crane to watch over Mark while he's in Australia. She just never realized how attracted she was going to be to the accountant. <br />This is probably the steamiest of the stories, but yet again, it is filled with emotions and lots of love and laughter. There isn't a story in this collection that will leave you disappointed. I can only hope that future \\"Bad Boys\\" titles live up to Nancy Warren's Bad Boys Down Under.	2004-07-11
US	49580421	R3UGOKQPNBB7PR	0821776126	910412759	Getting What You Want (Stepp Sisters, Book 1)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	All around great romance!	This debut book by Kathy Love has become one of my favorite books of the year so far. Truly, it was a great read and I can't wait to read about her sisters.<br />When Abby Stepp comes home to Millbrook, Massachusetts after fifteen years away, she never knew that she would be so attracted to the town bad boy, Chase Jordan. Likewise, Chase never knew that he could find scientists so sexy. As they get to know each other, Abby has to reasses not only herself, but how she sees the town of Millbrook, a place she has previously associated with only pain and belittlement. But with Chase's help, she is starting to see that the citizens of Millbrook, who were once her cruel high school classmates, have grown up and moved on to bigger things that don't include making fun of others. Sure, not everyone has matured, but Abby certainly sees a new side of her old classmates when she moves back to town.<br />This story has it all: romance, laughs, nostalgia, and growth. Abby truly grows as a character as she realizes that her present day classmates and her old images of them don't always coincide. Not only does she fall in love with an incredible man who loves her madly, but she falls in love with Millbrook. This is smalltown, U.S.A. at its best.<br />This is truly a touching novel and you will really connect with the great characters of Chase and Abby. I was hooked from page one and I predict that any fan of romance will also be hooked.	2004-07-04
US	49580421	R22P9LD7AAKQM1	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Lots of laughs, little character growth	I will first start out and say that I really did enjoy Ten Big Ones. It had lots of funny moments that had me laughing out loud, and it was great to revisit Lula and Grandma Mazur and all the other characters that make the Stephanie Plum series so funny. I even enjoyed the storyline.<br />Stephanie saw the face of the Red Devil who has been robbing gas stations and the like, so she is suddenly put on the hit list of the Comstock Street Slayers, whose insignia funnily enough is that of a cat paw print. She's also being targeted by the hit man Junkman who is determined to make his kill. Stephanie needs some place safe to stay and she finds that in the home of Ranger who is currently away from Trenton. Nevertheless, she's still getting into plenty of trouble.<br />Like I said, I really did enjoy the plot, but I was hoping for more character growth. Stephanie is still involved in her love triangle, and though she did resist Ranger, I'm getting sick of this storyline. I think it's time she made a committment, and while that would seemingly signify the end of the series, I think Evanovich could still make it work. But let it not be said that there wasn't any character growth, because there was. We finally see Joe making a point of saying what he would like in a future wife, and we see Steph contemplating her future with Joe.<br />Also the ending left a lot to be desired. It was funny and it was interesting and it really did start out with a bang, but it quickly fizzled. I wasn't impressed and felt that there should have been another chapter or two to round out the book. Maybe that's just me, but I like closure, and I really didn't find any closure with this book.<br />Overall, this book had plenty of laughs and it was a quick read. Unless you are a diehard Evanovich fan though, I wouldn't recommend buying this in hardcover, wait for paperback. It was funny and an enjoyable read that did keep me hooked from page one, but I thought it could have been thicker on character developement.developement.	2004-07-04
US	49580421	R1S6AXC1B974FS	0446612952	446536630	The Cajun Cowboy	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Romance Cajun Style!	The Cajun Cowboy is a rollicking, rib-tickler of a southern novel. Charmaine LeDeux is having problems: she's on the run from a loan shark because she owes him $50,000, she's a born again virgin and her ex-husband Raoul &quot;Rusty&quot; Lanier is out of prison, and back to tell her that they're still married. So begins Sandra Hill's engaging tale about love's second chance. Charmaine needs a place to hide out, so she turn's to Raoul's ranch, the Triple L. She finds to her surprise that she owns half the ranch, so she figures this is her chance to improve the living conditions for the residents: Clarence the foreman, Linc the cowboy, and Jimmy, a fifteen year old boy Raoul is helping out. Of course, teasing Raoul is only a side benefit. Soon they are flirting and kissing up the storm, much to the pleasure of Tante, Lulu and the gang at the Triple L.<br />Charmaine and Raoul are wonderful for each other; they have a steamy chemistry, lots of scorching heat, and a love that survives a ten-year almost divorce. Neither want to sign the divorce papers, yet they are both afraid to recommit to each other. Raoul can't forgive Charmaine for conspiring against him with his father, a man he hated, and Charmaine still replays their parting words of ten years ago that continually tear her apart inside. She doesn't think Raoul will ever see her as anything but a dumb bimbo. Charmaine is an extremely talented and smart woman, the antithesis of the dumb southern debutante and Raoul is anything but the generic cowboy often portrayed in romance novels. They both work hard in order to solve their problems, money, love, family, and business combined. With a little Cajun luck, Charmaine and Raoul will find their way back to each other, regardless of their other problems.<br />This is a wonderful story, with plenty of southern charm and many laughs. Sandra Hill brings her characteristic wit and love to her newest Cajun romance. An appearance from past couples such as Sylvie and Luc, Rachel and Remy gives this spicy romantic novel extra Cajun flavor. There are tons of laughs from the hilarious Tante Lulu, but the main story of Raoul and Charmaine is what holds the attention of the reader. This is a charming story that will make you want to find your own Cajun Cowboy.<br />Sarah W-- [...]chel and Remy gives this spicy romantic novel extra Cajun flavor. There are tons of laughs from the hilarious Tante Lulu, but the main story of Raoul and Charmaine is what holds the attention of the reader. This is a charming story that will make you want to find your own Cajun Cowboy. <BR>Sarah W-- [...]	2004-06-20
US	49580421	R36W1LADSBIRMR	0446612847	840234339	Man Trouble (Warner Forever)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Man Trouble is all about fun!	Man Trouble is the story of Professor Molly Shaw and her double life as writer Sandra St. Claire. She's the author of the New York Times bestseller Pirate Gold, but nobody knows that but her close friend and colleague Carter McKee. Now he has a favor to ask her: seduce resort millionaire and playboy extraordinaire Jake Berenger. Carter wants the scoop on the ever so handsome and seductive Jake, a man notorious for his privacy. So begins Molly's crazy quest to help her friend. Though she is very reluctant to go along with Carter's plan, she finally concedes because he has always been there for her when she has needed him. Molly also thinks she deserves to spend some time on a Caribbean island at Jake's resort, Gold Bay. She also hopes it will help her research for her next book. She never dreams about the amazing discovery she will make.<br />Jake finds the odd Sandra St. Claire charming, if a touch odd. But it is the intriguing Professor Molly Shaw who really interests him, especially when she tries to get a part of his resort classified as a historical site. Then he just finds her annoying... and oh so attractive. She seems to be the perfect candidate to help him clean up his playboy image, to make him seem more like a family man. Until he discovers her deception as Sandra St. Claire and her plan with Carter, and a messy situation just gets messier. Will Jake and Molly manage to come clean with each other so that their newly budding relationship can blossom fully into love?<br />Melanie Craft's story is a great read, very emotional, and full of lots of interesting historical details about pirate life. Jake and Molly were both very real characters, very three dimensional and full of love, warmth, creativity, and a zest for each other and the causes they are trying to help. Man Trouble has lots of great secondary characters too who the reader will either love or hate. Jake and Molly both have some troubles they have to work through but in the end it is their love and happiness that they find to be most important, creating a very satisfying ending to a very good book.<br />Sarah W--[...]d happiness that they find to be most important, creating a very satisfying ending to a very good book. <BR>Sarah W--[...]	2004-06-20
US	49580421	RPSKVOO04BLVF	0425194574	188673615	Fair Play (New York Blades)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	More than fair	Fair Play is the wonderful follow up to Deirdre Martin's first book, Body Check. This book also has a hockey theme, but it goes way beyond the normal athlete romance novel.<br />Heroine Theresa Falconetti doesn't date Italians or athletes. Michael Dante, the winger for the New York Blades, the fictional hockey team, knew from the moment of meeting Theresa that she was THE ONE. But she has some baggage that makes it hard for her to trust any man, let alone another hockey player.<br />Theresa was nearly raped by a hockey player from the Blades and she has retreated from being a fun loving, romantic and silly woman to a woman who is serious all the time. She is trying to get her PR firm off the ground and finally agrees to take a job promoting Michael's restaurant. Theresa quickly comes to discover that she can rely on Michael, and she also finds that is extremely attracted to him, false front teeth and all. Unfortunately, Michael has competition in businessman Reese Banister, a jerk of the worse kind.<br />Martin's follow up to Body Check is filled with Italian zest, fun family camaderie, and a great romance between Theresa and Michael who is a great hero, both tender, macho, and sexy. He wants Theresa and is willing to go to any lengths to get her, but when the going gets tough, it's Theresa who turns to Michael. Theresa has a lot to overcome to trust Michael, but right from the beginning her strong personality, individual style, and amazing strength come through. If this book is any indication, Deirdre Martin definitely has the talent to take her writing career to the top.	2004-02-08
US	49580421	RYL8DZJT7I5L4	0380811081	206000474	Again The Magic	Books	5	34	39	N	N	Amazing story of a second chance at love	Lisa Kleypas's newest novel is a delight to read. The story of John McKenna and Aline Marsden is a romance to be cherished. This story will make you laugh, cry, and rejoice in the power of love.<br />McKenna was a stable boy at Aline's estate when she was growing up. They fell in love as young adults, but both knew that it could go nowhere. Nevertheless, they both hoped that their love would be able to stand the test of time. Unfortunately, Aline's father discovers their affair and forbids Aline to ever see McKenna again. She breaks things off with him, but knows that he will always be her true love.<br />Twelve years later McKenna returns to Stony Cross Park a self made man in America with more money than he could ever hope to spend. He plans to get revenge on Aline for her supposed heartless rejection of him years ago, but things don't go as planned as he once again comes under Aline's spell. A charming subplot involving Aline's sister Olivia and McKenna's business partner Gideon Shaw also make this story one not to be missed.<br />This story also features Lord Marcus Westcliff, Aline's older brother, who will be the hero in an upcoming Lisa Kleypas story. Again the Magic is just that, magical. I love Kleypas's writing style, her strong characterizations, and her ability to convey all the emotions of love in a very honest fashion. Again the Magic is a book not to be missed, and if you are a new Kleypas fan, this book would be a great one to start out with.	2004-02-08
US	49580421	RAFOHH0OCG46O	0312983751	70656303	Take a Chance on Me	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Take A Chance on Thomas and Hairy	This book was wonderful. It lived up to the standards set by Susan Donovan in Knock Me Off My Feet.<br />Thomas Tobin was an undercover killer for hire working for the Maryland State Police. He comes across the body of Scott Slick, and next to the body is little Hairy, a Chinese crested, a very tiny dog. So starts the hilarity that is Take A chance on Me.<br />Hairy is a mess, so Thomas (not Tom!) takes him to animal behaviorist Emma Jenkins. They immediately connect, but both are busy finding reasons why they shouldn't take a chance on each other. Emma has just gotten divorced from her louse of an ex husband Aaron, who is also an animal behaviorist. She also has taken in her deceased best friend's daughter LeeLee, a genius who is busy adjusting to Emma, her new life in Maryland, and her lack of a mother. Thomas sees his life as unfit to be with any woman, and he got burned very badly by his previous girlfriend. His inability to get past this, and Emma's busy schedule lead to a very mixed up courtship.<br />When Thomas hires Emma to help figure out why Hairy is acting so strangely, things really begin heating up between them. The secondary characters of Hairy (who has his own thoughts in the book, which is very cute and funny and not over used by the author), LeeLee and Emma's father Beck add a lot of good laughs and tender moments to the book. The romance between Thomas and Emma sizzles and the disco dancing is one of the best scenes in the book.<br />If you enjoyed Susan Donovan's previous book, you will love Take A Chance on me. If you are new to Susan Donovan, you will love Take A Chance on me. Her combination of romance, sensuality, hilarity, and plain fun make for a great read. A definite keeper, and the excerpt of her next book, Public Displays of Affection, also sounds equally promising.	2003-08-14
US	49580421	R331BA0MYXQQ0M	0373218966	98493556	Sullivan's Woman	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The innocence of first love...	Sullivan's Woman is a 1984 book by Nora Roberts. I think to enjoy Sullivan's Woman, one has to keep in mind that it was written in 1984, and that Silhouette and the world viewed romance novels different then. The man was always mysterious, domineering, and a total hunk who mainly only shows his love for the woman by the end of the book. Bearing this in mind, Sullivan's Woman isn't that bad.<br />The two main characters are Cassidy St. John, a struggling writer who takes odd jobs to pay the rent, and world renowned artist Colin Sullivan. He meets her at Fisherman's Wharf on a foggy night and insists that he has to paint her. So begins their relationship. Roberts does a good job of portraying the artist in Colin, how he forgets everything but the painting and how he has total concentration on the subject. Many would think that he only fell in love with Cass because she was his model, sort of a working relationship, but by the end of the book one does see that Colin really does love Cassidy.<br />A spiteful ex girlfriend helps to keep Cassidy insecure about her love for Colin through most of the book, but that does not mean she doesn't have a backbone, for which she does. She shows plenty of spirit and energy, most unlike a lot of the 80s heroines. She is insecure in her love, but I think this is an accurate portrayal of any relationship. Who isn't insecure about their love for their partner in the beginning? Roberts portrays the growing relationship well. I did become annoyed and frustrated with Colin's elusiveness in saying how he really felt, but like I said, this was part of the way romance was written in the 80s.<br />Though this is an early work of Nora Roberts, I still enjoyed it and saw it as a precursor for many of her better books to follow. It is a fast and pleasant read and a must have to add to any Nora Roberts collection.	2003-07-31
US	49580421	RW9LQUNMXEMOL	0451410904	155908831	Blushing Pink	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Great romance and hilarious wedding antics!	This book was great. I had never read anything by author Jill Winters and I picked up Blushing Pink on a whim, but I am so glad I did! The story of Reese Brock and Brian Doren was passionate, sexy, funny, and romantic.<br />Reese Brock was working on her PhD, helping Professor Kimble write his book, or ghostwrite it in any case, and semi dating Kimble's other assistant, Kenneth Peel when she comes home for winter break to help plan her younger sister Ally's wedding. Brian was the best man and Reese's secret crush for two years. She had met him at a New Years Eve party two years earlier and had gotten a passionate kiss from him, but the he disappeared, and they both assumed neither wanted anything serious.<br />When Reese and Brian meet again, Brian is struck by how wonderful and sweet Reese is. He also thinks she is incredibly sexy. Brian is struggling with some family issues and feels an incredible emptiness that only Reese seems to fill. They meet at Reese's work, a cafe/bookstore where Brian goes everyday for lunch and a friendship is formed, a friendship filled with a lot of lust.<br />But of course, something had to screw up a blossoming relationship, and in this case, it was Veronica, the catalyst, and Brian's ex-fiancee of eight years ago who all of a a sudden wants to get back together. But, on another level, the problem is the lack of trust Brian and Reese have in each other and themselves.<br />But love wins out in the end, of course. The wedding, the secondary characters (especially Joanna, Reese's mom, who keeps pushing her at Kenneth and volunteering Reese to be doing everything that supposedly she is the best at and no one else can even manage these things), a side relationship between oldest sister Angela and hubby Drew, all make for a wonderful story. I am eagerly awaiting Jill Winter's next story and I am on the lookout for Plum Girl, her first novel.<br />Plenty of romance, comedy, sex, and family time make Blushing Pink a great story that any reader should enjoy, romance fan or not.er should enjoy, romance fan or not.	2003-07-18
US	49580421	R17LOCB3EDGB2W	0768363365	411694501	Buffy the Vampire Slayer: Student Planner 2003-2004	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Not as good as previous planners	This planner is just not as good as the other BtVS student planners. It includes pictures from season 7, but only from the following episodes: Lessons, Beneath You, Same time, Same Place, Help, Selfless, Him, and Conversations with Dead People. The picture quality is not that good, many pictures are very dark or flat looking. It doesn't seem as if the pictures were improved or made to look better for the planner. Also, as in previous versions, there is just not enough space to write a lot of things each day of the week. They should have combined Saturday and Sunday. But, as I am a die hard Buffy fan, I choose to ignore these issues and buy it anyway. While not the best, it is one of the last things left of BtVS that I will have because there won't be any more new episodes ever.	2003-07-09
US	49580421	R3SIWOSR2XQ444	0743456173	147794316	Just the Way You Are (Lost Texas Hearts, Book 1)	Books	4	24	26	N	N	A story of Hope...	This is Christina Dodd's first attempt at contemporary romance and I have to say, she scored big. Just The Way You Are is a great story and if it is any indication, Dodd has a great contemporary future ahead of her.<br />This book is about Hope Prescott who lived in Texas until she was 16 and her parents were arrested for embezzeling, a fact which no one in the Texas town wants discuss. Her younger sisters and brother were seperated from her and put into foster homes and Hope drifted for 7 years until she decided to get her life back together. She came to Boston and enrolled in college and got a job as a telephone switchboard operator where she &quot;met&quot; Zach Givens.<br />Zach was enthralled by Hope's voice from the first moment he heard it, and being a rich man who always got what he wanted, he went after Hope, pretending to be his own butler. They got to know each other and fell in love. Unfortunately, events outside of their control pushed them apart.<br />The romance was the best part of this book. Zach and Hope had instant chemistry and it was great fun and very romantic to see their romance evolve. The owner of Hope's switchboard operation provided a wonderful secondary character, as did Zach's Aunt Cecily and Sven.<br />The only part of this story that put me off was the embezzelment storyline and the absurd &quot;kidnapping&quot; attempt at the end of the story. It just kind of ruined the buildup of the romance and all that had come before it.<br />But besides this minor story problem, I have to say this was a great great story. There will be a second one, and hopefully a third. Though I have always admired Dodd's historical romances, it takes great courage to break out of habit and Dodd's breakthrough into contemporary romance is a great one. She has a great future in both historicl and contemporary romance. This book is a keeper.	2003-06-08
US	49580421	R1N1W9SNFF5G4Q	0380820838	493470499	London's Perfect Scoundrel (Lessons in Love, Book 2)	Books	4	28	30	N	N	Anything but Saintly	London's Perfect Scoundrel is a good devil/angel themed story, but yet Enoch's newest has much more than the category romance fiction theme going for it. It is truly about a man who has an epiphany, has redemption due to the heroine of the story.<br />Evelyn wanted to make a difference in her life, so one day while passing the Heart of Hope Orphanage, she decides to volunteer there. But she has to get the board of trustees permission first, and the head of the board is Michael, the Marquis of St. Aubyn who is known as Saint for his unsaintly like ways. He ridicules Evie because he doesn't believe her efforts will amount to much, and that she is only volunteering for a diversion.<br />There are several skirmishes during the first half of the novel, that come to a head when Evie kidnaps Saint and locks him in the orphanage basement for a week.<br />While he tries to repent (half heartedly at first) he eventually comes to care very deeply for Evie and her cause. He too wants to make a difference and not let her down, so he has to find a way to keep the orphanage open and not have her be married off to Clarence, Mr. Avlington.<br />The only thing I didn't like was how Evie kept crying in the book. She really didn't stand up much as a heroine, she was kind of weak willed. She should have stood up to her brother, no matter how much she loved her family. Saint was a totally wicked hero, but he was wonderful too. I don't think I have ever read about a more jaded, cynical Regency hero. They seem mismatched, especially with Evie's weak-willed personality, but in the end, they did fit together.<br />All in all, a great story. I enjoyed the romantic scenes and the orphanage scenes which provided a lot of humor for the story. Suzanne Enoch has written another winner and I look forward to Lucinda Barrett's story, featuring Robert Carroway, Lord Dare's war tormented brother.	2003-05-09
US	49580421	R8P43KA1YTAY5	0373218192	514518766	Engaging The Enemy	Books	4	16	17	N	N	"Engaging" stories	These are two classic Nora Roberts stories, both very entertaining and light and easy summer reading.<br />Boundary Lines was my personal favorite of the two, but both are still great stories. Boundary Lines is about a family feud between the Barons and the Murdocks. Aaron Murdock and Jillian Baron are adults who have grown up with the feud, so when Jillian sees Aaron trespassing, so to speak, on her land, she lays into him because it has been so ingrained into her. But, both are deeply attracted to each other upon first meeting. Aaron wants to get to know her better, but Jillian fights the feelings developing between them because of her family loyalty. It is a struggle, and the conflict is mild, but the love story is great. A wonderful way to start off this \\"miniseries\\" of stories.<br />A Will and A Way is also a great story, with an interesting little mystery thrown into the mix to spice things up. Pandora McVie and Michael Donahue who are, according to the book synopsis, distant relatives, so take that as you will. They are both given bequests in their Uncle Jolley's will, and they have to live under his roof together for six months in order to fulfill the will. But, both decided to do it because otherwise, if I remember right, something would happen to their bequests that they didn't want to happen. Both figure things can't be that bad, but with the little mystery of who is trying to hurt them for their money, and the added romance, A Will and A Way is a great story.<br />Neither are Roberts best stories ever, but any romance fan should enjoy the theme of two \\"enemies\\" coming to terms in the best possible way: love.	2003-04-24
US	49580421	R35ZFX66QZ2YUN	0060006331	41038758	Signs and Wonders: A Harmony Novel	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Signs and Wonders in Harmony	I really enjoyed Signs and Wonders. I discovered Philip Gulley about a year ago, and have been hooked ever since. His Harmony series is a wonderful collection of small town ancedotes and home spun tales. The characters are true to life: you'll find a Dale Hinshaw or Sam Gardner in every town across America. His true to life stories are filled with sentiment for the easier days, and a love of God.<br />The only thing that really turned me off this book was Dale Hinshaw. In the previous Harmony novels, he was a likable dolt. Now, to me anyway, he seemed like a bigot. He was preaching and yelling and just not accepting anyone opinions but his own. It was annoying and by the end of the novel he really started to grate on my nerves. In Home To Harmony and Just Shy of Harmony, he was a person who always seemed to learn a lesson by the end of the novel, finally coming to understand something regarding religion and life. In Signs and Wonders, he seemed ignorant and rude and generally annoying.<br />Other than that it was wonderful to meet up with the characters again. I really want to see Deena meet a guy, almost as bad as the Friendly Women's Circle, and seeing Harvey accept his son's lifestyle and love him for it was nice. Gulley didn't try to press the issue of homosexuality, never saying whether it was wrong or right, but he did stress that love was important, and that was what I enjoyed. He really had a bigger lesson in this novel.<br />There were plenty of funny moments in the novel too: the pumpkin toss and the Furnace Committee and other moments. Overall, another great book by Gulley. I look forward to hearing more stories from the simple, welcoming town of Harmony, Indiana.	2003-04-23
US	49580421	R1F4H3UN1NPPRQ	0451208315	240564209	Lily (Flower Trilogy)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Loving Lily	I really enjoyed Lily. I had been looking forward to the story of Lily and Rand ever since I had read Violet, and I wasn't let down. Lily was waiting for her older sister Rose to get married before she could get married. They both thought Lord Rand Nesbitt was the perfect mate for Rose, but Lily had some deep feelings for Rand, feelings that Rand reciprocated.<br />But, Lily made a promise to Rose to help her snag Rand as a husband because Rose has always wanted a Lord of some kind for a husband. Unfortunately for Rose, plans go aray, and Rand and Lily announce their engagement. Lily feels bad for hurting Rose, but she wants Rand and they are both deeply in love.<br />Then Rand gets a letter from his father because his older brother died. Rand is now the Marquess of Hawkridge's heir, and he needs Rand to marry Margery, the girl he has raised as a daughter since her father died. Margery was engaged to Rand's older brother, a mean and pretty evil guy. Margery on the other hand was pregnant by a local Baron whom she was in love with. The Marquess was convinced Margery's lover was Alban's killer, and the plot just kind of took off from there. I won't give away more details, but the way that Rand and Lily figured out the answer was very interesting.<br />All in all, this was a pretty good book. I guess I thought it could have been a little more exciting because all in all it was a tame plot, but nonetheless, I enjoyed reading more about the Trentingham family. This story set up Rose's story which is due out in October and should be very interesting.<br />Oh yeah, and Lily's animal companions made for interesting characters in their own right. Very funny and imaginative and added a lot of humor to the situation. A great addition by Lauren Royal. She gets better all the time.	2003-04-04
US	49580421	R1TYF8ESU0W7NR	0060092130	43840938	Dance of Seduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 4)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Sexy and Fun!	I was really looking forward to this book because I wanted to see how the character of Morgan Blakely, aka Captain Pryce, would turn out. I was not in the least disappointed!<br />Morgan opens a fake fencing shop in London in order to capture the \\"Specter\\" (who was really kind of a lame \\"villain\\") for the Crown. His neighbor is Lady Clara Stanbourne runs the Home, a place where she reforms pickpockets and tries to get them a good position in a home where they can earn a living. She at once dislikes Morgan's shop, believing him to be a thief, and then a fencer (someone who sells stolen goods). She tries to get him to close his shop, but he won't because of his job to the Crown. They get into several verbal skirmishes which are just delightful to say the least. Clara could really hold her own against Morgan.<br />Of course, Morgan and Clara start to fall in love, but as with any romance, there are problems. Morgan is supposed to be staying out of trouble due to a bet he made with Lady Juliet, his sister-in-law, so he volunteers at the Home to help, as a ruse against his family's meddling. This throws him into even closer proximity with Clara and things really develop from there!<br />Lots of steamy love scenes, humor and wit, and two wonderful protagonists makes Dance of Seduction a wonderful book! Lady Clara really stood up to her cause and Morgan really admired that about her, instead of looking down on her for her work or thinking it less important somehow. They had to work out their relationship issues, such as Morgan's inability to live on land. He is afraid to stay in London and uses his Captainship as a way to get out of a commitment with Clara, though he proposes anyway, thinking that it will make everything ok.<br />The other characters are wonderful too. Aunt Verity was very funny, and her dogs were adorable, really adding a comic touch to the story. It was also wonderful to visit Lady Juliet and Sebastian Ravenswood from After the Abduction.<br />All in all, this was a really wonderful story! I really enjoyed it.l, this was a really wonderful story! I really enjoyed it.	2003-04-01
US	49580421	R2ECFRNTCOB58P	0758204280	950486991	Bad Boys On Board (Watson Brothers)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Hot and bothered!	Bad Boys on Board was a good combination of romance and sensuality and it is all thanks to the great stories of the three authors: Lori Foster, Nancy Warren, and Donna Kauffman.<br />My House, My Rules was my favorite out of the bunch, and the reason I bought the book. Sam Watson was a cop working undercover when his youngest brothers ex-girlfriend tries to rescue him in a bungled undercover operation. Ariel has loved Sam almost since she first met him, and Sam has been fighting his attraction to her since the the first time they met. But, he thinks she is too young for him, being 24 to his 36. And, he doesn't want to hurt his youngest brother Pete, who he believes isn't over Ariel yet.<br />After the bungled undercover operation, Sam takes Ariel to his house to get her fixed up a bit and the romance just takes off from there. She is willing to do anything to prove her love to Sam, even go by His Rules. They share a wonderful night together and Ariel is even more in love with Sam then the previous night. Sam too knows that he is in love with Ariel, but with the interference of younger brother Pete, the \\"relationship\\" falls apart and Sam has to convince Ariel that he is in it for the long haul.<br />A thoroughly romantic book with great characters. Lori sets up middle brother Gil's story in this book too, or so it seems anyway.<br />Going Down by Donna Kauffman was also a pretty good story. Callie is the executive assistant to a female executive and she devotes long hours to the company. Callie is asked to escort business associate Dominic Colbourne down to his car, but as they are going down the elevator, the power goes off and they are stuck together for the night. Some quite sexy things go on in that elevator and the two characters bare their souls to each other. They both have a lot of baggage that has prevented them from having a long term relationship. Though the sex in the elevator after only just meeting the guy seemed a little far fetched, it was nonetheless a good novella. Callie and Dominic were both characters who were well developed and interesting.<br />Nancy Warren's story A Fast Ride was my least favorite of the three stories. I just didn't like the hero's reaction to the heroine at the end of the story. Nell rescues a motorcycle accident victim (Wes) and she pretends to be his girlfriend. Like I said, not my favorite story, but it wasn't horrible by any means.<br />Bad Boys on Board was a good book all in all and I look forward to reading the next Bad Boys trilogy. These writers (especially Lori Foster and Donna Kauffman) seem to be getting better and better all the time.s a good novella. Callie and Dominic were both characters who were well developed and interesting.<br />Nancy Warren's story A Fast Ride was my least favorite of the three stories. I just didn't like the hero's reaction to the heroine at the end of the story. Nell rescues a motorcycle accident victim (Wes) and she pretends to be his girlfriend. Like I said, not my favorite story, but it wasn't horrible by any means. <br />Bad Boys on Board was a good book all in all and I look forward to reading the next Bad Boys trilogy. These writers (especially Lori Foster and Donna Kauffman) seem to be getting better and better all the time.	2003-03-26
US	49580421	R1DPA1L2H1V9AU	0060009241	418168365	See Jane Score	Books	5	0	0	N	N	See Rachel Score	First off I must say that I am a bit biased because I love hockey, and I really appreciate a good hockey hero. Luc Martineau is all that and more. He is definitely the epitome of the hot hockey player, but besides that he was a genuinely nice guy.<br />Jane Alcott was just assigned by her newspaper to be the sports reporter for the Seattle Chinooks, a fictional hockey team. She was quite happy as she thought this assignment would help her career. What is so great about Jane is that she is so realistic: about herself, her looks, her life. She knows her limits, but she does know that she is a worthy of a great love. She may not be the prettiest person, but she is definitely interesting, especially considering her other career, as a writer for Him magazine, writing the pornographic serial Honey Pie.<br />Luc does not know about this little career of hers, which causes trouble for the couple. But along the way there are plenty of interesting moments including the big hockey superstion. I will never look at the phrase \\"You Big Dumb Dodo\\" the same way again. She also bonds with Luc's sixteen year old sister who just lost her mother and who moved in with Luc, much to his initial displeasure.<br />What is so great about this book is that the characters grow. Luc, Jane, Marie, even Caroline and Darby. There are plenty of comedic moments, and the love scenes are scorching. Luc's tattoo of a horse shoe is in quite the interesting place. We also get a glimpse of Gibson's other hockey character, John Kowalsky and wife Georgeanne. This book definitely lives up to its title, and it is a definite great romance. The uncertainty of love and the happiness that follows it being acknowledged is all present in See Jane Score.	2003-02-06
US	49580421	R2DO8JHZSAURDN	0804119740	719225280	Lady of Desire	Books	5	3	6	N	N	All about Billy	Lady of Desire was definitely worth the wait. Jacinda and Billy were unforgettable characters who shined in this book. But above all, it was Billy Blade who made the book. His story of hardships and how he rose above them was amazing. I got tears in my eyes several times while reading about Billy. He was such a contrasting character: he wanted to be strong, but was also very needy, he wanted to be a leader, but was shy.<br />His amazing ability to adapt to the situations he was in was great. He definitely made this book. Jacinda was a good heroine, don't get me wrong, but I thought she was a bit stuck up for most of the book. It wasn't until the end when she realized she did love Billy that I truly began to like her. She was a spunky lady though, and I did like that because I don't enjoy when the female leads are weak and simpering. She stood up for herself, and won the love she cherished and needed.<br />Billy and Jacinda were great characters. Lady of Desire was a great follow up to the other Knight books. Foley's tantalizing glimpses into Lizzie and Alec were also great, making me wonder if they do get together or not. Once again, Foley shines!	2003-01-08
US	49580421	R6OTVNZXAW83	0373612567	500637348	Dancing in the Dark (Cooper's Corner, Book 7)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Romantic Reunion at Cooper's Corner	Sandra Marton's latest novel is the part of the continiuing Cooper's Corner line. This is the story of Wendy Monroe, Olympic skiing hopeful, and her lover, Seth Castleman, who seemed to have no hope of a good future when they were younger. Now, nine years later Wendy comes back to Cooper's Corner because famous orthopedic surgeon Rod Pommier is in town, and she wants him to agree to perform surgery on her leg, a surgery that is very risky.<br />She doesn't tell Seth that she is back, and he gets the surprise of his life when he finds out. After the accident that had destroyed her leg, she sent Seth away when he flew out to Norway to be with her. She didn't want to see him because of a secret reason. Seth is very mad, but still very much in love with Wendy. He wants her to give them another chance, and as the story progresses we see what a loving man Seth is and how Wendy learns to trust him again.<br />Both the hero and heroine are great characters, though Wendy's whining about her leg and her lack of accomplishments because she couldn't compete anymore did start to grate on my nerves. Seth was definitely one of a kind, a really great hero who helped Wendy to see that there were other things in life besides skiing. Dancing in the Dark is the story of their love and how they both had to accept that things had changed between them, while still being able to have a loving relationship. It was a great book, and I would definitely recommend it. Sandra Marton did a wonderful job with these characters.	2002-12-30
US	49580421	R2R34TSIKO8Y2I	0373218036	249319124	Truly, Madly Manhattan	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Lovely stories!!!	I enjoyed both of the stories in this book. They are both reprints, but they are great ones, and I think of all the Nora Roberts stories that have been reprinted lately, this duo really illustrates how she developed into such a great romance writer.<br />Local Hero is the story of Mitch Dempsey and his new neighbors, Hester Wallace and her son Radley. Despite the (in my opinion anyway) ugly name of Hester, this is truly a great romance. Hester is a bank manager and is a very careful and meticulous person who was hurt badly by love the first time around. She hardly ever hears from her exhusband Allan, neither does her son Radley. She is very wary of men. Mitch is a comic book writer/illustrator, who just so happens writes Rad's favorite comic book, Commander Zark. Mitch takes an interest in Radley right away, and volunteers to baby-sit him during the day when Hester is at work. By baby-sitting, he slowly integrates himself into Hester and Rad's life, falling in love with Hester in the process. She is very nervous, but reciprocates his love whole heartedly though she is very reluctant to take the final step of marriage. Mitch's time and effort to get Hester to love him and trust him back pays off wonderfully, in this classic romance. Definitely a wonderful story.<br />Dual Image is the story of soap star Ariel Kirkwood and script writer Booth DeWitt. She auditions for his newest tv show, and is cast as the female lead, the lead that just so happens to be based on his horrible and bitchy ex-wife. Booth wants to type cast Ariel in that role, but finds that hard to do as she is the complete antithesis of his exwife. She is loving and open, and unbeknownst to him has a secret that comes out at the end of the book. She falls in love with him almost right away, scaring him because he isn't used to such an emotional display. He evenutally accepts his feelings for Ariel and they fall in love, then her secret comes out, scaring Booth all over again. The minor intrusion of his exwife plays a small role in the book too. It is a very good book, and I really liked it being paired up with Local Hero. Definitely some great Nora Roberts's reprints!exwife plays a small role in the book too. It is a very good book, and I really liked it being paired up with Local Hero. Definitely some great Nora Roberts's reprints!	2002-12-28
US	49580421	R3O33CGR0BC8Y	0060520124	252779691	Christmas in Harmony (A Harmony Novel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Remembering Christmases Past...	Philip Gulley's Christmas in Harmony is an amusing tale of Sam Gardner's Christmas season. He is the Quaker minister in Harmony, Indiana, and the church is getting ready for Christmas. Dale Hinshaw, the churchs resident creative programmer. He insists that the people of Harmony no longer want the same old Christmas mass, and he decides to organize a Progressive Nativity, without getting anyone's direct agreement, as is usual.<br />Gulley works in elements of some of the downsides of Christmas, such as the mass marketing, when the Nativity scene gets bombarded by different signs from local businesses who won't let Dale use their things without a little free advertising. In fact, the whole nativity turns into a bit of a joke.<br />But, nonetheless, Gulley works into the story many refreshing Christmas thoughts. He is able to make the reader see both sides of Christmas, the mysticism and wonder that a new child feels, and the cynicism and splurging that goes on during the holiday season. As is usual with the Harmony books, he works little thoughts into the end of each chapter, just something to ponder about. This story made me laugh out loud several times.<br />Unfortunately, it was a rather short book, which is why I wouldn't recommend buying it. But if you are able, definitely check it out of the library. It is an amusing Christmas tale that evokes memories of each person's own childhood Christmas, and the wonderful scents, thoughts, gifts, feelings, and overall happiness that Christmas brings about.	2002-12-10
US	49580421	R27SV9IMBN6BHH	0373196318	659885424	Lionhearted  (Long, Tall Texans)	Books	4	35	36	N	N	Likable story	The last Hart bachelor is finally caught. This is the story of Leo Hart and Janie Brewester. I had been looking forward to this book for awhile, because I really enjoy Palmer's Hart brothers series.<br />As in all of her books, Janie is a 21 year old virgin and Leo is like 34 or 35. She has no experience with men, and Leo doesn't even like her to begin with. But of course, that changes throughout the book. While this book may sound typical of Palmer, which it is, it was also somewhat different. Janie really was much more independent than some of the other heroines in Palmer's books. I really liked Janie in fact. And I don't recall reading one &quot;Little One&quot; endearments in the book at all which was great as that term really grates on me.<br />Leo was definitely all male, and while he didn't want to fall in love with Janie, once he did, he made no effort to stop it. He even seemed to enjoy it.<br />As is typical of Diana Palmer's books, there was a scene where Leo totally insults Janie, but instead of Janie just falling into his arms right away, she does actually fight it and make Leo sorry. I also really liked how there were a lot of extra characters mentioned that will probably be getting their own stories sooner or later, such as Judd Dunn and Christabel, and Cash Grier, and probably Harley.<br />All in all, this was a good book. I think it is one of Diana's better more recent novels. I found the characters likable and not so annoying. The love scenes were very steamy too. A good ending to the Hart brothers books.	2002-12-07
US	49580421	R3SAYNO5XV9JD6	0373196318	659885424	Lionhearted  (Long, Tall Texans)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Likable story	The last Hart bachelor is finally caught. This is the story of Leo Hart and Janie Brewester. I had been looking forward to this book for awhile, because I really enjoy Palmer's Hart brothers series. <br />As in all of her books, Janie is a 21 year old virgin and Leo is like 34 or 35. She has no experience with men, and Leo doesn't even like her to begin with. But of course, that changes throughout the book. While this book may sound typical of Palmer, which it is, it was also somewhat different. Janie really was much more independent than some of the other heroines in Palmer's books. I really liked Janie in fact. And I don't recall reading one &quot;Little One&quot; endearments in the book at all which was great as that term really grates on me.<br />Leo was definitely all male, and while he didn't want to fall in love with Janie, once he did, he made no effort to stop it. He even seemed to enjoy it. <br />As is typical of Diana Palmer's books, there was a scene where Leo totally insults Janie, but instead of Janie just falling into his arms right away, she does actually fight it and make Leo sorry. I also really liked how there were a lot of extra characters mentioned that will probably be getting their own stories sooner or later, such as Judd Dunn and Christabel, and Cash Grier, and probably Harley.<br />All in all, this was a good book. I think it is one of Diana's better more recent novels. I found the characters likable and not so annoying. The love scenes were very steamy too. A good ending to the Hart brothers books.	2002-12-03
US	49580421	R3D3C70XZX3YHX	0373218540	185425774	Dangerous	Books	4	92	94	N	N	Uniting theme of dangerous works well...	This book contains three of Nora Roberts earlier novels, Risky Business, Storm Warning, and The Welcoming. This book is a REPRINT of the three novels, so be warned if you already own them. The uniting theme is danger, because each of these books contain some sort of mystery, in which there is some sort of danger.<br />Risky Business isn't one of my favorites of the three, but it isn't bad of course. What Nora Roberts romance is? This story is about Liz Palmer who owns Black Coral Dive Shop in Cozumel where she was raising her daughter alone because the childs father didn't want her. She hires a new diving instructor, Jerry Sharpe, but within two weeks of working for her, he turns up dead leading Liz to ask some questions. Jerry's twin brother Jonas shows up asking questions and making trouble for Liz. As each learn about what happened to Jerry, they fall in love, both having to reopen their hearts to the pain of love after failing the first time around. Good story for the most part, but I personally didn't care for Jonas. He seemed a little too detached for me.<br />Storm Warning is the story of Autumn Gallegher and her aunt's inn where she goes to stay. There, she meets up with Lucas, the man she had fallen in love with three years earlier and who had broken her heart horribly. He still seems to care for Autumn, which confuses her a lot, and makes her feelings stronger than ever for him. Meanwhile, one of the guests staying at the inn turns up dead, and everyone is a suspect. Autumn, though she doesn't want to, believes that Lucas might have done it. In between solving the murder, Lucas and Autumn mend their relationship and fall back in love. Good story for the most part, but it wasn't anything super special. It really didn't stick out in my mind too much, though I did like Autumn.<br />The Welcoming was my favorite of the three stories. Charity Ford runs a seaside inn, and one of her new guests is Roman DeWinter. He had come to her inn to expose a criminal organization that was based in her inn. He didn't expect that he would learn to care for Charity, and want something more with her. Charity was a great character, as was Roman. They both fell in love rapidly, and though Roman made a big mistake in not telling Charity the truth, the two were able to work it out for love. Both of these characters had strong convictions, and I thought the \\"mystery\\" in this book was the most interesting of the three.<br />All in all, a pretty good selection of books for Nora Roberts fans. Though not some of her best works, I really don't think any fan will be too disappointed in the stories as they are still romantic and filled with love. The only problem is that some of the romance themes seem a little outdated for todays more modern times.ization that was based in her inn. He didn't expect that he would learn to care for Charity, and want something more with her. Charity was a great character, as was Roman. They both fell in love rapidly, and though Roman made a big mistake in not telling Charity the truth, the two were able to work it out for love. Both of these characters had strong convictions, and I thought the \\"mystery\\" in this book was the most interesting of the three.<br />All in all, a pretty good selection of books for Nora Roberts fans. Though not some of her best works, I really don't think any fan will be too disappointed in the stories as they are still romantic and filled with love. The only problem is that some of the romance themes seem a little outdated for todays more modern times.	2002-11-24
US	49580421	R17W1KFUMHV7SQ	1551669498	660625217	Girls Night (STP - Mira)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Very Impressive!	I really enjoyed Girls Night. I haven't ever read anything by Stef Ann Holm, so when a friend recommended this book, I was a little leery, as I am with any new author. But, be assured, this book was in no way a let down! Girls Night is the story of Jillene McDermott is a widower living with her two daughters, Faye and Claire, and their dog, Sugar. Jillene runs a coffee shop called Java the Hut (I laughed when I first read this) that was originally opened by her late husband David. Jillene is really struggling to make ends meet. She has no money for anything, food, shoes, repairs for her shop. She is considering bankruptcy, but doesn't want to give in.<br />Then she meets local celebrity Vince Tremonti, a prolific true crime writer who has come back to Blue Heron Beach to get past some of his own demons. They meet in her coffee shop, and instant sparks. I loved the way they were atracted to each other right from the first, but Jillene was very shy, and neither thought it was the right time to get involved.<br />Vince was a great guy. He really struggled in this book. I won't say why, but the portrayal of his struggles, and his what he had to go through was very realistic. He didn't want to get involved with Jillene and her family, but he couldn't help himself. Love happens and there is not much you can do.<br />I was very happy with this book. It was a great story. It really portrayed Jillene as a strong, capable, modern day woman, who didn't have to rely on a man to fix things for her. She came up with her own solutions. Her daughters were great additions to the story too. They made wonderful characters. The side romance of Vince's father, Al, and a neighbor lady he had been in love with for a long time was just another great piece to this story. True, old fashioned romance was definitely alive in Blue Heron Beach. A well written story with good character development and plenty of chemistry.	2002-11-22
US	49580421	RYGXQ2OD9WFZ5	0373218400	675121255	Table For Two	Books	4	33	35	N	N	Oldie but goodie	This is another reprint of two of Nora Robert's older titles, Summer Desserts and Lessons Learned. I really like these books a lot, especially considering a lot of her reprinted stories aren't as good as you would expect them to be considering they come from Nora Roberts. This reissue on the other hand is excellent (in my humble opinion.)<br />Summer Desserts is the first of the two stories and it involves dessert chef Summer Lyndon. The hero, Blake Cocharan, wants Summer to come work at his new hotel kitchen in Philadelphia. They meet and instant sexual attraction. But of course they fight it, but Blake is willing to concede that he wants Summer, and proposes. Unfortunately Summer has so of her own issues from growing up that have to be resolved first before we see a happy ending. Definitely a good read, and will probably make you want to go and eat something sweet.<br />...<br />Lessons Learned involves Carlo Franconi, Summer's best friend, and his publicist for his new Italian cook book, Juliet Trent. Juliet knows of Carlo only as a playboy chef, a womanizer in some aspects. She doesn't want to get to know the actual man. But, Carlo, a great male hero in my opinion, shows Juliet that he is much more than the facade that he puts out to other women. He wants her to trust him, but Juliet can't. He falls in love with her, and she with him, but she is still afraid, and in the end, some strife occurs. But, I really liked this story nonetheless.<br />...<br />Both of these stories are very good I think. I loved the whole romance and food theme. Desserts and Italian food are both very romantic topics, and Nora Roberts writes about them well in these two novels. Definitely a great addition to any romance collection.	2002-10-30
US	49580421	R27JQZCKVYY1PE	0451206886	553991482	Violet	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Wonderful story!	I loved Violet. This book was amazing. I have never read anything by Lauren Royal, but that is going to change. She is definitely a rising star in the romance genre. Violet is the story of Violet Ashcroft, the oldest of the three Ashcroft daughters. She believes herself to be unmarriageable, because she is average. Not tall and beautiful like Rose, her middle sister, or Lily, who is a kind hearted soul, just plain average Violet.<br />When Lord Lakefield, Ford Chase, comes to stay at his property for awhile with his niece Jewel, she gets the chance to meet a scientist, because her youngest sibling, Rowan, becomes fast friends with Jewel. Ford shows Violet things she has never seen before, and he does some of the sweetest things in the world for her, such as making her glasses so she can see correctly. Unfortunately, both the protagonists have doubts though: Violet doesn't believe a man could ever love her without wanting her money, and Ford doesn't believe he is good enough for Violet because he doesn't have enough money.<br />As they find their way to love, the reader will be enthralled with the amazing research that went into this novel, and some surprising guest appearances such as Sir Isaac Newton, Robert Hooke, John Locke, and some other notable 18th century scientists. Lauren Royal definitely did her research on the Restoration Period, and it shows as historical information is weaved seamlessly into the characters' lives and interactions with each other. The reader even gets a tantalizing glimpse of her next novel, Lily, and what is in store for her.<br />All in all, a great historical romance novel. I picked this novel up on a whim, thinking it sounded somewhat interesting, and I was right. It was great! I am going to go back and read her Jewel trilogy now. If you are looking for a interesting, fresh perspective on the romance genre, then Lauren Royal is your ticket.	2002-10-13
US	49580421	R2VPDZUTD1S9QK	0373218486	898333241	Going Home: Unfinished Business/ Island of Flowers/ Mind Over Matter	Books	4	42	44	N	N	Another reprint	For those people who have been desperately searching for Nora Robert's older books, this has definitely been the year to do that. Many of her older Silhouette novels are being republished, and this is the case in the Going Home trilogy which contains Mind Over Matter, Unfinished Business, and Island of Flowers. I have read all of these books seperately and none of them really stand out in my mind as being superior stories, but they aren't bad. They are still enjoyable reads. Any fan of Nora Roberts books will enjoy reading these, but as I said, keep in mind that they are reprints.<br />Of the three, I liked Mind Over Matter best. Island of Flowers is about Laine, who visits Hawaii after her mother's death to meet with her father, a man she hasn't seen since she was a child. There, she meets and falls in love with her father's friend and business colleague, Dillion.<br />Unfinished Business was about Vanessa and Brady, high school sweethearts. They'd had a parting of ways 12 years ago, and now he wants to get back together.<br />Mind Over Matter is about Aurora and David. Aurora is known as somewhat of a \\"psychic\\" though I don't think that term is used in the book. She comes on to protect her mother who is a consultant for David's documentary, and so she agrees to help, and the sparks fly. Like I said, my favorite of the three.<br />All in all, an interesting package of book choices. It should leave any romance fan satisfied.	2002-09-25
US	49580421	R35S2DFSZVGC9K	0060092645	979727315	My Favorite Bride (Governess Brides, Book 6)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Enjoyable book	My Favorite Bride is Christina Dodd's latest book in her Governess Bride series. Like In My Wildest Dreams, My Favorite Bride has a theme that the reader has seen before. But, instead of Sabrina, we see the Sound of Music.<br />Samantha Prendregast was a pick pocket before she was rescued by Lady Adorna Bucknell, and recruited to be a governess. She is sent to the wilds of Cumbaria, in Northern England where she goes to work for Colonel William Gregory, a widower with six girls. The Colonel lost his wife when she was killed by thieves in Kashmir, and since that time, William has been trying to bring down Russian spies, whom he holds responsible for his wife's death.<br />Samantha comes in and interrupts his neat and orderly life. She brings happiness and laughter back to his house, and helps his children to be happy also. She really does wonders for the family, and she is really a great character. She has a lot of backbone for a female, especially an ex pick pocket. She is not afraid to stand up for what she believes is right, which was why she got dismissed from so many other previous posts.<br />Of course William can't resist Samantha's feisty ways, but he tries very hard. He even brings in his wife's best friend Lady Teresa Marchant whom he hopes to make his new wife. Conflicts abound in this story, but nonetheless it is very engaging. Samantha is a wonderful character. I really enjoyed reading about her antics and the way her and the Colonel fell in love. There is even a charming side romance between Lady Marchant and William's best friend Duncan which adds to the story.<br />If anything, the Russian spy plot took away from the story. I looked on it as more of an annoyance. I was much more interested in the romance between Samantha and William, and reading about how William changed from a dispassionate parent, to a man who was much more comfortable in the role of father. This is a great story. I would definitely recommend it to any romance fan. Don't let the Sound of Music like theme throw you off either. I was not very tempted when I heard how it was comparable to that classic story, thinking this book would turn out like In My Wildest Dreams, which wasn't very good in my opinion. But, in fact My Favorite Bride is a wonderful story that will have one wanting to march off to the wilds of England to find their own true love.nd of Music like theme throw you off either. I was not very tempted when I heard how it was comparable to that classic story, thinking this book would turn out like In My Wildest Dreams, which wasn't very good in my opinion. But, in fact My Favorite Bride is a wonderful story that will have one wanting to march off to the wilds of England to find their own true love.	2002-09-15
US	49580421	RTRQWX0IUTEBI	1551669382	866584603	Enchanted Afternoon	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Left me wanting more...	Well needless to say, I was disappointed in this book. It had a great plot, and I think could have been much better than what it was. In Halfway to Heaven, Helena and Michael's romance seemed so much more... loving? It was just hotter I guess. Maybe it was the illicitness that made it more romantic, it was just better in Halfway to Heaven.<br />In Enchanted Afternoon, we finally see Michael and Helena come together after 8 years. Helena has been abused by her husband, senator Troy Barnes, and she wants a divorce, so she contacts Michael. He won't help her until he sees their son William, who he didn't know existed. Helena didn't want to win Michael through an unexpected pregnancy, so she never told him.<br />Helena leaves her husband and settles at Moon Lake Lodge where she helps other woman who are in similar situations. This part of the story was really great. I definitely saw how Helena had matured, and how she was a dependable and caring woman. She not only tried to better herself, she tried to help other women become something.<br />Unfortunately, Michael and Helena's relationship just wasn't as good. They were definitely in love, but it seemed too long for them to get there. The story dragged in the middle for me. And then, when they do finally come together and admit their love for each other, the story basically ends. There really isn't a conclusion. I think an epilogue would have made the ending more realistic and given it a definite conclusion. To me, it ended much too abruptly.<br />I had been really looking forward to this book, and I was disappointed in some respects. In others, such as Helena's character, I was happily pleased. Unfortunately, Michael just didn't seem to gain the same maturity that Helena had. If you want to read Enchanted Afternoon, I would just rent it from the library or a friend. It just wasn't worth buying to me.	2002-09-10
US	49580421	R10TNCFHZ5PP36	0515120618	337464343	Montana Sky	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic Nora Roberts, classic romance	This book is one of my favorite Nora Roberts novels. It is also one of my favorite contemporary romance books. Montana Sky has everything: love, laughter, fear, romance, greed, passion... it doesn't disappoint in any respect.<br />Montana Sky is the story of the three Mercy sisters: Willa (the main character of the story) who was raised on Mercy ranch with her jerk of a father, Tess, the oldest who was raised in california and thinks Montana is as out of nowhere as any place, and Tess, the middle sister, who was in an abusive relationship and is on the run.<br />Montana Sky focuses on the three sisters and the men in their lives: Ben, Nate, and Adam. Each man is definitely dream man material, and are very strong characters. The woman are also strong, and are not willing to be ruled by their men.<br />The book tells about the year the sisters are forced to live on the Mercy ranch, in order to inherit, as stipulated by Jack Mercy, their father. Nora Roberts definitely did her research on ranch life, because as far as I could tell, it was all very accurate. She brings to life the hardships that occur being a rancher, especially a woman rancher, and she also manages to showcase the beauty that is Montana.<br />This is a wonderful novel that celebrates life. Though death is involved, and in a very grotesque way, it is a novel of finding family, and finding love. I was very surprised by the ending, as I had had no idea who was the killer. I have reread this book many times and enjoyed it more and more each time. The three sisters differences make an enjoyable cast of characters that any romance reader will love.	2002-08-30
US	49580421	R3HRE5JNFXGCWJ	0553583980	330622208	True Blue	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Wonderful story of friendship and love.	This was the first Luanne Rice book that I have ever read, and I thoroughly enjoyed it. The story of Zeb and Rumer is amazing, and it brought tears to my eyes on just about every page. I also enjoyed how there were three stories interwoven into one book: Zeb and Rumer, Quinn and Michael, and Sixtus.<br />Zeb and Rumer were childhood best friends, and were on the point of falling in love when Rumer's older sister ruined it. She married Zeb and created a big rift in the family. This story takes place after the divorce of Zeb and Elizabeth, when Zeb and his 17 year old son Michael return to Hubbard's Point.<br />The love between Rumer and Zeb is so alive in this book, it leaps off the pages. I am hoping that Quinn and Michael will get their own book, as their story was just as intriguing. Sixtus's (Rumer and Elizabeth's father) journey was also interesting, though not as great as the rest of the story. I now have to go read about Dana and Sam, Quinn's aunt, who had their own story.<br />If you like a good old fashioned romance, where boy meets girl and they fall in love, this is the story. It was wonderful, and I am looking forward to reading more of Luanne Rice's novels.	2002-08-28
US	49580421	R1DA1HFP859G9D	0060507365	720423107	When Strangers Marry (Avon Historical Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Good read for an early book	This is a reprint of Lisa Kleypas's first novel. I was very excited to read it, because she is one of my favorite authors. But, as excited as I was, I wasn't expecting her usual novels, because, well this was her first attempt. I hate to say it, but usually an author's first publication isn't as good as their novels now. Anyway, I really did enjoy this book.<br />I thought that Lysette was a strong heroine, and though she seemed to cater to Max's needs a lot, she was still an individual. Max allowed her to have her own opinions and thoughts, and wasn't as high handed as many husbands of that time could be. I also liked Max. He was so happy to be around his wife, and I really don't see that much in historical novels until nearly the end of the book. He took joy in being with her all the time, and he liked her for her individualism.<br />Max's sons, Justin and Phillipe, his mother, and the mystery surrounding his first wife's death all added to this book. But, I have to say that I guessed who the killer was almost from the first. Ignoring that fact though, this book has good characters, wonderful romance scenes, and a setting that I have never seen Kleypas use in her current books. I was pretty pleased with this book all in all, and I think it would be worth a read for any romance fan.	2002-08-08
US	49580421	RMO5OVP64YK5A	0373218397	575803812	Summer Pleasures	Books	5	17	20	N	Y	Great stories by Nora	Another two in one fron the Queen, Nora Roberts. Second Nature, and its sequel in a sense, One Summer, are classic Roberts. I personally prefered Second Nature, but One Summer is a good story nonetheless. Second Nature revolves around reporter Lee and her quest to get an interview from Hunter Brown. He agrees to the interview as long as she agrees to on a camping expedition with him. The trip turns out to be very funny. Lee is not at all an outdoors person, having come from the New York City if I remember correctly. She struggles to make it, and has a few funny moments, but she does grow as a character as she discovers a new side of herself. Hunter is a good Roberts Hero, and is a good match for Lee. But, she doesn't see it. Naturally there is some conflict, but it does work out. A great story all in all.<br />One Summer features Bryan and Shade, two photographers going on a quest across America one summer. They have to take pictures that involve America, from its fun loving and happy side, to the seaminess that invades some parts of it. Along the way, the both learn about each other, and fall in love. This was the first story that I had ever read that used Bryan as a girls name, and it took me awhile to get used to it. I did like this story though. Both of these stories are great, and I like how they are repackaged as one, a great benefit to any Nora Roberts fan.	2002-07-25
US	49580421	R3QCR3LYTE6KGC	0380818043	90358606	After the Abduction (Swanlea Spinsters, Book 3)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	A stunning story!	This was the first book that I had read by Sabrina Jeffries and it won't be my last! I loved After the Abduction. I picked it up at the library, not realizing that it was part of a trilogy. Now I will definitely have to go back and read the first two novels. The story of Sebastian and Juliet was wonderful! He adored her from the first, and I thought that was so great! I really didn't like Juliet at first, but as the story progressed, I did find her to be a good heroine. The different plot twists in this novel will keep any romance fan on the edge of their seats, and the [love] scenes are wonderful, sensual and romantic. I liked the scene where Juliet was taught to shoot a gun, because I had never really encountered that kind of scene in the romance novels I had read. Sebastian is a wonderful hero, and very alpha male. They have many sparring matches, but as is with romance novels, love wins out in the end!	2002-07-24
US	49580421	R3JPJO5WGL4P7X	0768358434	351750151	Buffy the Vampire Slayer Student Planner (2003)	Books	5	8	8	N	Y	I love it!	The 2002-2003 BtVS student planner is much better than the 2001/2002 version. There are a ton more pictures from actual episodes in season 5 and 6 that are really great to look at. Plus, it is just an all around nice planner to have because it is very pretty. The only complaint I have is that there really isn't enough room to write a ton of stuff for each day. Other than that, it is a great planner!	2002-07-13
US	49580421	RU4B1W2D4NU8Y	0380773554	781469885	Prince of Dreams	Books	4	5	6	N	Y	The transformation of love...	I was really looking forward to reading this book, and for the most part I was not at all let down. Nikolas was really a jerk at the beginning of the book. I mean, he loved Emma, he just didn't know it. But he behaved abysmally towards her. He locked her out of his life, and he treated his illegititmate son Jake like the worst kind of trash. I was shocked by his character, but I knew that Lisa Kleypas would find some way to bring him around, and she really did. His transformation was sudden, and sort of unbelievable, but it fit very well with the magical story that this book was interwoven with. I loved reading about Nikolai's transformation when he was back in Moscow in 1707. His Emelia really helped him to become a new man, and when this book entered its third part, I really loved Nikolas's character. He showed Emma how he cared, and became a good father to his son. The only part that really let me down with this book was the ending concerning Emma's former suitor. I just thought that it was kind of hashed together and didn't fit in very well with the rest of the story.<br />All in all though, if you love a good romance, particulary one that involves a past romance that transcends all ages, you will love Prince of Dreams.	2002-07-13
US	49580421	R14QXEYX71AA21	0373484836	931763727	Cordina's Royal Family	Books	4	9	12	N	N	Great stories!	I had previously read all of the Cordina triliogy some years ago when I rented them from the library as part of Nora Robert's Language of Love series. I never bought them though, so I was escatic when they were rereleased in one trilogy. My favorite story is The Playboy Prince. I love the characters of Bennet and Hannah. Command Performance is also a great read. The only story I wasn't so fond of was the rirst one, starring Garbriella and Reeve, Affaire Royale. But, like all of Roberts stories, the characters and plot are wonderful, and she does a good job (in my opinion) of portraying what royal life would really be like. If you are a fan of Nora Roberts you are going to love these stories, and even if you aren't a fan, this trilogy will still amaze you.	2002-06-24
US	49580421	R2L3MIX9XSTBRK	0373484771	399251595	Overload / If A Man Answers	Books	3	48	50	N	N	Love Linda Howard	The only reason I bought this book was for the Linda Howard story, Overload, which was amazing. She is a great writer, and I was really looking forward to reading this story. I was not let down. Elizabeth works in the same building as Tom Quinlan, whom she used to have a romantic relationship with, but she broke it off. One day (on a day with a heat wave) there is a power shortage and they get stuck in the building together. Tom is glad because he really wants to know what went wrong in their relationship. This story tells you that and more. It is amazing how much Linda Howard packed into less than 100 pages. The other story was ok, but like I said, I bought this for Linda Howard, and I was not let down at all in that respect. So, if you are a Linda Howard fan, I would definitely recommend this book.	2002-06-16
US	49580421	R1J52AXTHCMNT7	038082082X	724787021	The Rake (Lessons in Love, Book 1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Well... I was looking for a little more I guess...	I was really looking forward to reading this book ever since I read A Matter of Scandal, where Dare and Georgiana first were mentioned. This book wasn't horrible by any means. In fact, it was good, but I guess, after reading A Matter of Scandal, which was wonderful (I would read that entire trilogy first, but if you want to start with A Matter of Scandal, do it.), I was just feeling let down. I guess I didn't think this book had the same warmth and love that some of her previous books did. Georgiana and Tristan had a history starting when Tristan made a bet about kissing Georgie when she was 18. She was in love with him, and then she found out about the bet, which made her hate Tristan. So basically this book is about her plans for revenge, which of course go awry. It is not a great book, but I did enjoy reading it. Read it yourself and see what you think.	2002-06-10
US	49580421	R1ETRLD0FFP31M	0373835272	36302254	Once And Again	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Love the Buckhorn brothers!	If you didn't have the chance to read about Gabe (my personal favorite brother) Sawyer, Jordan, and Morgan (another great guy) then this is your chance. Lori Foster creates a wonderful family with these brothers. Not only are the stories highly sensual and sexy, but they are just good all around reads. The next two brothers come out in August. I'm not going to give much away here, but the stories are so much more than romance. They are filled with family, laughter, quirkiness, and love. Lori Foster has been one of my favorite authors for several years and with the Buckhorn brothers, she proves once again why she is so popular with romance readers. So, like I said, if you haven't had the chance to read about the Buckhorn brothers, pick these books up as soon as possible. You won't regret it.	2002-06-10
US	49580421	R2BXGW3QD1A6XQ	0821771175	560235468	Be My Baby Tonight (Zebra Contemporary Romance)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Interesting........ but there was something missing	I was really looking forward to reading this book because I had really enjoyed Love to Love You Baby. I thought reading about Jack's twin Tim would be hilarious. I was partitally correct. The beginning of Be my Baby Tonight started out promising I thought. But, because of the lies and deceptions between Suzanne and Tim, it got very muddled in the middle. There was no communication at all between them. It was like they were two totally seperate characters residing in one book. Tim managed to get better as the book went on. I found it hilarious how he went through the pregnancy symptons with Suzanne. Suzanne was a character I really did not like at all. She just was too... insecure, and mean too. She wasn't a very good heroine at all. The only reason I am really giving this book 4 stars is because I did enjoy reading about the characters that I had already met. Jack and Keely and Candy, and the new baby. Plus, the story of Margo the cat was cute too. I did think that the book got better right towards the end, but unfortunately the middle was something of a stumble for me. But, if you enjoyed Jack's story, I would recommend renting this at the library, or if you do buy it, buy it at a used bookstore.	2002-06-09
US	49580421	R1RKT4YEZL2ZFT	051513287X	228253288	Face the Fire (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Wonderful conclusion!	This book was amazing! It really brought a good end to the Three Sisters Trilogy. I loved the story of Sam and Mia, it was very emotional and heartfelt. I really sympathasized with Sam. He had a hard choic to make as a young man, and when he finally knew what he wanted, it was almost too late. I actually felt bad for him. Mia wouldn't give him a break. But, on the other hand, he could have been kinder to her when he broke it off with her to begin with. I loved seeing the interaction between Nell and Zack, Ripley and Mac, and Mia and Sam. The interaction between the couples wasn't as prevalent in the other two books, and it was wonderful to see how their lives were moving along, what the future held for them. I know that Ms. Roberts rarely does a continuation of her trilogies (except for the Chesapeake Bay trilogy, with Seth's story coming out this fall) but I think it would be wonderful to see a story from one of Mia's children, or even Nell's or Ripleys. All in all, this book was wonderful. Sam's role was something that I hadn't considered in the other two books, and it was nice to see that explored and developed. As much as I hate waiting for Ms. Robert's books, Face the Fire was definitely worth the wait!	2002-05-29
US	49580421	R1BS1W7HBGGT8M	0373122357	452404252	The Italian's Wife	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Not my favorite, but still good...	I did like this book for the most part. I really liked how Rio looked at Timothy as his own son, and what he did for Holly was really nice. Plus, Lynne had a little bit of a twist in the beginning of the book, which really you don't see too much of in the Harlequin Presents line. So, if you are a Lynne Graham fan, I would suggest reading this book.	2002-04-04
US	49580421	R27VP95OF9BMCI	0380819635	813843722	Lost in Your Arms (Governess Bride, Book 5)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good Read	I really enjoyed this book. I have enjoyed most of the Governess Bride series and this book was no exception. I really liked Kiernan MacLean as the hero. I thought he was very brave, witty, and just nice. Enid sort of annoyed me as a heroine. She was a good nurse, but I thought her reasons for refusing MacLean were just kind of lame. I enjoyed meeting MacLean's family though. Lady Bess smoking a cigar was very funny. I want to know what happens with MacLean's sister Caitlin, so I'm hoping we get a book about her next. Throckmorton and Celeste are revisited in this book, and whether or not you liked them in In My Wildest Dreams, I think it is always nice to revisit old characters. Anyway, if you want a fast read, but an enjoyable one, read Dodd's latest offering.	2002-03-07
US	49580421	R1FYJW4MK2RUVU	0373122020	95583156	Alvares Bride (The Barons) (Harlequin Presents, No. 2202)	Books	5	1	4	N	N	The Baron saga continues....	This was a great book. Carin and Rafe were great characters, and I loved hearing about Amanda and Nick too. It was a rocky start for Carin and Rafe, but they made it through. Though the book was her sort of usual &quot;girl hates guy, guy hates girl, they fall in love, then get mad at each other&quot; type of book, I still enjoyed it.	2001-08-31
US	49580421	R2QWHHG840IC7O	0768345065	484699193	Buffy the Vampire Slayer 2001-2002 Student Planner	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Good planner	Lots of writing space and cool pictures from the tv show. Plus, they offered cool quotes from the show. A must have for any Buffy fan.	2001-08-29
US	49580421	R1G6RIX9D00A3S	0373484410	983942105	Time And Again	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Good time travel	I love Nora Roberts books. She always makes a good story. But, I must admit that I was a bit leery about how she would work in the time travel bit. I haven't read much time travel romance, so I was leery of that to begin with. But, like most of Nora's books, I loved it. The Hornblower men were great heros. It was very funny to see how they reacted to what Libby and Sunny considered modern times, in fact, some parts of it were downright hilarious. And even though it is one of her original books for Harlequin, it definitely was good. I would recommend this book for any Nora fan or any one who is a fan of romance time travel.	2001-08-29
US	49580421	R30KXXHX3DW2O0	0768341868	173319531	Buffy the Vampire Slayer 2002 Calendar: 17 Full Months	Books	5	0	4	N	Y	Great calender!	I loved this calender. Calenders are great and this one really rocks. Good pictures of the cast and the 17 month thing is great.	2001-08-29
US	49580421	R2YDA98G9XUICI	037312189X	322790296	The Ultimate Surrender (Harlequin Presents, 2189)	Books	4	2	6	N	N	A good summer read	I really liked this book. I have been a fan of Penny Jordan for awhile, and this book just proved again why I liked her. At the beginning, I was a little turned off by the main characters, Marcus and Polly. Marcus seemed mean and Polly just seemed too weak, but by the end of the book, I liked them more. It was a fast read, but enjoyable too.	2001-07-31
US	49580421	R3THX1OCYW8CZ8	0671034421	305895234	Open Season	Books	4	12	15	N	N	A cute story	I was really hoping for a lot with Open Season. I loved Mr. Perfect. It was my first Linda Howard novel. Anyway, Open Season was not quite a Mr. Perfect, but it definitely wasn't An Independent Wife book. In other words, it didn't totally stink. I thought Daisy was a cute character and I did like Jack. The plot was good too. It is definitely worth a read. There were some cute scenes, like the condom part, which I thought was funny. Anyway, if you like Linda Howard, check it out.	2001-07-18
US	49580421	R330GM2LUNEO1T	0399147314	110294177	True Betrayals; Montana Sky; Sanctuary: Three Complete Novels	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Great books!	I own all three of these books, but not in one big volume. But, if I didn't, I would buy this book. All three are great stories, and worth buying! I love Nora Roberts and Montana Sky, Sanctuary, and True Betrayals are great romances with plenty of other things for readers.	2001-07-10
US	49580421	R1NC7U3YO16YZB	0373484429	666170685	Reflections And Dreams	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great books	I loved these stories. I had read both of them when they were part of Nora's Language of Love stories, and I think they were both sensational. But, in case you didn't know, these are reprints, but definitely worth taking a second look at again. I would have to say my favorite is Ruth and Davidov's story. It was very romantic and he is the kind of guy I could only dream of finding. Great stories!	2001-06-27
US	49580421	R526N3GTQ4QF1	0515131229	12771112	Dance upon the Air (Three Sisters Island Trilogy)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Great story!	I loved Dance Upon the Air. It combined romance and some neat witch craft quite well. I can't wait for Mia's story, and Ripley's too. Zack was an awesome hero and Nell, though a little weak at points, pulled through in the end becoming a very likable heroine. She was sweet. I enjoyed this story a lot. Any fan of Nora Roberts will enjoy it too!	2001-06-06
US	49580421	R2OVWKFFJMKV8H	0553493450	368002979	Where We Belong (Sweet Valley High Senior Year No. 29)	Books	1	0	1	N	N	Horribly Depressing!	I really love the Senior Year series, but this book just made me so mad! If you read it you will know why. All I can say is: Liz deserves so much better. I guess there is still a part of me that wants Liz and Conner to get back together, but then there are books like WWB that make me hate Conner. He is such a jerk! But, the Maria and Ken parts were good, though I thought that was almost more of a secondary story line, contrary to the book cover. It wasn't like the book was bad, but the plot line ruined any enthusiasm I had for the book. I hope Close to You is better.	2001-05-08
US	49580421	R1PGTZJ7UQ2LWJ	0671019708	691382940	After the Night	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Great story!	I loved this book so much! I had just started reading Linda Howard books from my local library but I was unable to get this one, so I ordered it online. I was not disappointed in the least! I thought Gray was the perfect Alpha male. He was so hunky! I'll admit that his earlier treatment of Faith wasn't the best, but he had his reasons. If you have never read a Linda Howard book, I recommend starting with this one, or MacKenzie's Mountain, another great LH novel.	2001-04-30
US	49580421	R34JKHOHPVGHG7	0373484119	138942609	Maximum Marriage: Men On A Mission (Silhouette Promo)	Books	3	4	4	N	Y	Not the best but not the worst	I like Annette Broadrick so I was excited to get three of her older stories in one. Now, this book wasn't a total let down, but it wasn't the best one around. I did not really connect with the characters in any way at all. But, if you are looking for a fast read, rent it from your local library or borrow it from a friend.	2001-03-15
US	49580421	R2YR3UMEL4AQCA	0373121636	138063230	Damiano's Return	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Pretty Good book	I liked this story for the most part, though it is not one of my favorite Lynne Graham books. I felt bad for Eden because she had to suffer through Damiano's family and all the gossip they spread about her. And of course he didn't believe her when she told him the truth, which is pretty typical of a Lynne Graham book I think. But in the end everything worked out okay. But in general, I liked the two main characters and I thought it was a pretty good book.	2001-02-18
US	49580421	R31ZW8YJOS3685	037312158X	312710613	Mission : Make - Over (Harlequin Presents, 2158)	Books	5	7	9	N	N	A good read!	I really liked this book. It was a fast read, but the story was pretty romantic, even if it had a typical romance story theme. The characters, Jake and Luce, were pretty likable and I felt sad that they felt they had to hide their feelings. At the beginning of the book, I felt bad for Luce because she really did not know how to act feminine, but I did think she was a somewhat weak female character. But that is just my opinion. But if you have liked Penny Jordan in the past you will probably like this book, even if it is similar to a lot of her other books.	2001-02-18
US	49580421	R3I9U6S9OYICY4	0553493418	589028746	Straight Up (Sweet Valley High Sr. Year(TM))	Books	4	4	4	N	Y	It was okay	I thought Straight Up was an okay SY book, not the best, and not the worst. It revolves around a scholarship from Ms. Senate. Tia, Maria, and Melissa (plus 2 other girls) get nominated. Not Liz which really upsets her. But she is picked to be a judge as is Ken, so things get pretty confusing. There are some cool moments in the book such as when Maria and Melissa are going at it in the hallway and Tia breaks them up. Jade starts to talk to Evan and her dad shows up so she is in a bad situation. I won't tell anymore, but it is worth it too read, even though Jessica is barely mentioned, or Conner.	2001-01-13
US	49580421	R1WTUPZIU161O3	0553104144	676623025	Riley in the Morning	Books	3	18	21	N	N	It could have been better	I was really looking forward to reading this book because I haven't read many of Sandra's earlier books. Unfortunately, this book was kind of a let down. I did not connect with the characters. And I thought her reason for leaving Riley was kind of stupid. If they had talked it out right away, the seven month seperation would never have happened. I liked seeing how they met, that was sort of romantic, their whole history I mean. But in general it was not that good of a book. I have definitely read better. I would recommmend borrowing this book from a friend or renting it from your local library.	2001-01-08
US	49580421	RX0LQP247GZRD	0373121407	935106324	Playboy In Pursuit (Australian Playboys)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Sexy and Sinful!	I really liked this book. I think it was my favorite out of Miranda Lee's Playboy series. The interaction between Val and Lucille is really catchy and fun to read. Val didn't seem like that much of a playboy, but he definitely had a tough time winning Lucille over. They had a secret relationship going on, but Lucille was afraid to go public with it. Val wanted to shout to the world that he was in love with Lucille. I thought it was very romantic and sweet. A good conclusion to her miniseries. Bravo!	2000-11-09
US	49580421	R225ATK7EAIYD4	0373121393	527607086	The Sicilian's Mistress (Harlequin Presents No. 2139) (Amnesia Christmas)	Books	5	14	23	N	N	A great, fast read!	I really enjoyed this book. It was a pretty unbelievable story I will admit, but the characters were very good. It was pretty emotional. I felt feally bad for Milly when she found out about her true identity. Gianni wasn't always the most sensitive guy, but I think he was still a good character. If you like Lynne Graham books, you will enjoy this story.	2000-11-06
US	49580421	R2V4A50G9V9XEV	0373709366	35864840	Born in a Small Town: The Glory Girl/Promise Me Picket Fences/Midnight Sons and Daughters (Midnight Sons #7) (Harlequin Superromance, No 936)	Books	3	18	21	N	N	An okay read	I really enjoyed Debbie's Hard Luck, Alaska series, so I was really looking forward to this new one about Scott O'Halloran. But to be honest, I was disappointed. The book was not that good. The love story between Scott and Chrissy was just not that interesting. I liked hearing about what had happened to the other characters in Hard Luck, but the main plot just didn't turn out well. I think she gave into him much too easily. He barely had to work for her love. But that is my opinion. You might just want to read this book to find out about the other characters.	2000-10-11
US	49580421	R15L7ZBW5Y9GTC	0590523481	923891004	Claudia And The Disaster Date (Baby-Sitters Club Friends Forever)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Claudia + Alan=FOREVER!	I loved this book! I love how Ann has gotten other teen characters involved in the stories, not just the members of the BSC. They finally have friends outside the BSC it seems (like Claudia and Erica, Stacey and Rachel, Kristy and Cary, etc.). Anyway, This book was good because it let Claudia have a little romance in her life. I think they make a cute couple. Alan is still a joker, but he tries to hard to change for Claud, which makes her act different. Finally they get it together, and at the end, Alan asks Claudia to be his girlfriend. It was really sweet. It is so sad that they are going to graduate, especially when the series is getting so good, not just focusing on baby-sitting. Also, Claudia gets a job at the Stoneybrook Public Library, and that creates tension with her mom. Definitely a must read for the die hard BSC fan.	2000-09-24
US	49580421	R32MM9BMH5HWHF	0373121288	922700077	The Playboy's Proposition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	A Fast Read	The story between Michele and Tyler was somehow predictable to me. Michele had known Tyler Garrison since her days at university. They were good  sparring partners, always arguing. But Michele was in love with Kevin.  Michele had an on-again-off-again relationship with Kevin, another friend  of theirs. Kevin decides to get married without telling Michele, to another  girl named Danni. Michele is heartbroken. Tyler steps in to save the day.  They pretend to have a relationship going to show Kevin that Michele  doesn't care that he married someone else. Now Tyler was supposed to be  this big playboy, but to me it didn't really seem like he was. He didn't  act all playboyish, he just seemed to really care about Michele, who was  oblivious of him. They get a relationship going and Michele falls in love  with Tyler. Tyler has been in love with Michele since university. He doubts  her love for him and then he catches her innocently kissing Kevin. It all  turned out good in the end, and it was a fast read. Not the best Miranda  Lee book I've read, but I am looking forward to the next book in the  series.	2000-09-04
US	49580421	R3P8RFT7WB0OWY	0373121008	88428062	Emerald Fire	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Jungle Adventure	I did not really enjoy this book. I love Sandra Marton and her stories  usually, but this was an exception. I guess I didn't like it because of the  jungle setting. To me, running from a wild tribe in search of a diamond is  just not all that romantic and conducive to falling in love. The characters  were good though, and they made up for the plot line, in my opinion. Slade  is definitly a hunk, and Brionny was a typical female character for Marton,  the kind that argues at every step with the guy. That got a little  tiresome, as it usually does for me. But if you like the jungle advenure  scene this book is for you. Unfortunately, it wasn't for me.	2000-08-22
US	49580421	R9L4SWG4IO6GN	0590523465	895018110	Welcome Home, Mary Anne (Baby-Sitters Club Friends Forever #11)	Books	3	1	4	N	N	An okay story	I thought this book was okay. I liked how Mary Anne helps Sunny and all, but I think that the book focused too much on Sunny's situation. It was nice hearing about the house and about Jeff though. I think it was very sad when her house burned down because they had so many memories of it. Dawn  seemed shocked by the changes at first, and Sunny was going hyperactive.  But the book really wasn't that good. The next one seems better.	2000-07-28
US	49580421	R2FGTVYO9KIHQV	0515128546	913543903	Tears of the Moon  (Irish Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Tears of the Moon	First off, I think this was a really good story. I enjoyed the main plot between Shawn and Brenna, but I also enjoyed the subplot that involved Carrick, Prince of Faeries. Brenna has wanted Shawn for a long time and she  finally decides to go for it, and I give her credit for that. Shawn, he is  a slow guy, not as intense as some of Nora's other male leads, much more of  a dreamer. He is shocked but they kiss, and from that point on, he can't  get Brenna out of his mind. The romance between them is a little slow to  develop I thought, but once it got going, it was very good. I liked how  Shawn was pretending to let Brenna court him towards marriage and such.  Also, you find out more about Jude and Aidan, how their lives are going.  Something big is happening for the Gallaghers' and it will continue on into  the next book, with Darcy. Big plans. It was a very enjoyable read and if  you liked JEWELS OF THE SUN, you will like the second book in the trilogy.	2000-07-03
US	49580421	RQQMBOFOUVVU	0373121172	929988055	Romano's Revenge	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Romano's Revenge	I liked this book for the most part. It was a good sequel to Matt's story in THE SEXIEST MAN ALIVE. Anyways, the book is about Joe and his new cook, who can't really cook, Lucinda, who he constantly refers to as Lucy (to her  utter annoyance). Joe's Nonna set them up in a big scheme that you will  understand if you read the book. Joe thinks Lucy is a lesbian, and Lucinda  thinks Joe is gay, but neither is gay or lesbian. They are very attracted  to each other. They had a really odd meeting, her jumping out of a cake at  a bachelor party for one of Joe's friends, and the story just progressed to  weirder as the book went on. Now, her female characters are a lot alike,  they all say they don't want the male character to kiss them and whatnot,  but they always succumb to temptation, so in that way, this book is very  similar to all her others. But nonetheless, if you like a quick read, and  you enjoy her stories, you will probably like this book.	2000-07-01
US	49580421	R1DXYYF9EMK4M3	0590523457	149319480	Stacey's Problem (Baby-sitters Club Friends Forever)	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Stacey's Problem	In this book, Stacey's Dad was getting remarried to Samantha, his girlfriend. Mrs. McGill was upset, which put Stacey in a difficult situation because she was happy for her Dad, but she felt bad for her Mom.  There were some surprises towards the end. Also, an old friend of Stacey's  appears. I liked the book because it didn't focus so much on baby-sitting.  It was good.	2000-05-20
US	49580421	R12VYREBB4G9IU	0373484070	106625251	Sons of Texas : Callaway Country	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Callaway Country	It was a good book. I like how it combined two plots in one, the story of Katie Callaway, and Sam, and the story of Clay and Pam. It took me awhile to get into it, but I really liked it once I started. I really enjoy the  Callaway series, and if you like the series, you will enjoy this book.	2000-05-09
