US	49586917	R1CEB15L87P3DZ	0060196742	43859328	A Changed Man: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Worth your time	Is it just me or are too many critics overthinking this book?  It's an enjoyable and interesting story involving a number of memorable characters.  Vincent Nolan is a screwed up guy who decided he doesn't want to hang with a bunch of skinhead white supremacists, so he steals his cousin's truck, some cash and pain pills and looks for a new life. <br /> <br />Why not go to an anti-hate organization run by a Holocaust survivor by the name of Meyer Maslow?  Perhaps they will hire him to convince other screwed up guys with little prospects to avoid hate and white supremacist movements.  Once he reaches the office, he is warily brought into the group but Mr. Maslow asks his fundraiser Bonnie, a divorced mother of two boys to live in an extra room in her house. <br /> <br />From there, it's not all that unusual.  We see the stress of having the family host Vincent.  We see the challenges the organization faces in using Vincent for their aims and the eventual attempt at revenge by the group he left behind.  We also see the interpersonal stresses and angst that plays out among all the characters. <br /> <br />It's some of the characters and their observations that make this book worthwhile reading.  The relationship between Vincent, Bonnie and her children made the book a winner for me. Along the way the raises a number of questions that will keep you thinking while you are reading and after you finish.  Can you actually change a man's feelings of hate or do people take on those feelings when pressured and just dump them when it's convenient?  Another interesting issue is the pressure of raising money for a good cause.  If it is a good cause how far are you willing to go to sell the cause for more money?   <br /> <br />In summary, this isn't a must have book that will change your life.  The plot is a little thin and predictable but the characters are likeable.  Still, it's well-written and worth your time and might cause you to think about some of the issues that are touchedon in the book.  <br />	2005-05-31
US	49586917	R1QGAK5W8WWOTV	0345472314	379682346	Oh My Stars: A Novel	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Fun Reading	Every once in awhile, it's fun to read a book that causes you to smile and forget about everything.  It doesn't always have to be a profound book that addresses society's biggest issues; sometimes some escapist fun is perfect for that long flight or commute on the train. <br /> <br />That tends to sum up my view of Oh My Stars.  It was fun, it included a number of great characters, a few plot twists, and a number of important observations about our country during the years just before World War II.  The observations include a perspective on racial relations, music and war but isn't overly political or preachy. <br /> <br />The central character is Violet Mathers, who looks back on her life's story.  She has an unhappy beginning with a mother who abandons the family, a cold and abusive father, and eventually a factory accident that costs her an arm.  Ready to kill herself, she instead begins a lifelong odyssey full of music, travel, and love.   <br /> <br />Although some people often think Landvik is a writer of books that appeal to women, I think her work is transcends that limitation.  I enjoyed her previous book, Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons and am interested in reading some of her other work too.  What I enjoy is her ability to write about a lifetime in a concise way.  Oh My Stars is actually a fictional biography of an entire life; in fact entire lifetimes about a number of characters.  She manages to cover decades in time without being shallow, and she does it with a sense of humor that often brings with it a unique Midwestern perspective.   <br /> <br /> <br />	2005-05-17
US	49586917	R25LREYG1Z9GTC	0312330529	649794517	Shantaram: A Novel	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Remarkable	It's rare when you read a 900-page book and seek additional pages, but that was my first reaction after reading Shantaram.  This is a remarkable epic that is worth reading in spite of a few flaws. <br /> <br />What makes it worth reading is the first two-thirds of the book that is centered in the slums of Bombay.  Obviously there is more than a little autobiographical information in this book, and in this case, the protagonist of the story lands in Bombay while on the run from prison authorities in Australia where he escaped from a maximum security facility. <br /> <br />The depiction of Bombay along with colorful characters such as a friend and benefactor named Prabaker are unforgettable and communicate a wonder and admiration for a new world by a person who is forced to renounce and abandon his existence. <br /> <br />This is the part of the book that I loved and doubt that it will translate well into a movie.  Eventually, the author's travails will take him deeper into a world of crime, the inside of a jail cell and fighting for the Muhadjeen in Afghanistan.  My sense is that some of these stories will make for a great film; they did make for great reading although it wasn't written in the same vivid detail as the first part of the book where the author attempts to fit into slum life in Bombay. <br /> <br />Also, I'll have to admit that I was somewhat troubled by its treatment of the war against the Soviets in Afghanistan.  The book is set in the mid 1970's and while there are brief mentions of the broader political issues of the Middle East, the author almost succeeds in writing a mostly apolitical book.  It's my own personal minor quibble, but any book written after 9/11 that deals with the issues of religion in the Middle East should address a bit more of the largest issues of our times. <br /> <br />All in all, it's a minor quibble, because I think this is one of the best books I've read in a number of years.  While the author has a remarkable story that canalmost write itself, he is also an exceptional writer.  It might seem hard to believe, this 900-page book is actually an easy read. <br /> <br />I wholeheartedly recommend this book and believe that you will be thinking about its content long after you put it down for the last time.  <br />	2005-05-09
US	49586917	R3JEBJ86WW6MMJ	075820776X	776146802	St. Dale	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Very Enjoyable	It's always great to be pleasantly surprised by a book that exceeds your expectations.  As a big racing fan, I was intrigued by the idea of this book and picked it up knowing absolutely nothing about the author.  My fear was that she would butcher the racing part of the book in telling a sappy story.   <br /> <br />Thankfully I was wrong on both counts.  It's a wonderful book about relationships and showcases beautiful characters.  I don't always read uplifting books that put such a big smile on my face like this one did.   <br /> <br />What made me even happier is that she did the racing parts right too. The book centers around a handful of people who are booked on a Dale Earnhardt rememberance tour.  Along the way, they actually watch two races and visit a number of racetracks where they lay memorial wreaths in memory of the great racing legend.  While that might sound stupid to some people, Dale Earnhardt's death had a profound effect on a large number of people.  It's rare for a great sports star to die while he is still a competitor.  It's much rarer when that star has such a bond with his fans and dies while in the actual act of competition.  For many people who never met Dale Earnhardt, they still felt as if they knew him and they suffered a great loss when he was killed. <br /> <br />While this book touches on all of this, it does so in a way that also hones in on the important things in life such as our relationships with those we love.  There are also a few passages that hint on religious devotion and faith and the impact of a \\"secular\\" saint such as Earnhardt.  Thankfully, that isn't overdone in the book and is done just right as everything else is in the book. <br /> <br />I've never read anything else by Sharyn McCrumb but plan to change that in the near future, because I liked this book so much.  I would recommend it to anyone, whether or not they are a racing fan.	2005-04-20
US	49586917	RJILOITAHOHYY	0316323942	993319687	The Crisis: The President, the Prophet, and the Shah-1979 and the Coming of Militant Islam	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Recounting of History	If you enjoy historical writing that tells a story instead of hitting you over the head with numerous footnotes and citations, this is the book for you.  Long before Al-Queda the US was forced to deal with Islamic Terrorism in the late-70's, and this book does a great job in explaning how it all happened.   <br /> <br />The writer, David Harris does a great job in extrapolating information from existing sources and a number of interviews with people who were involved in the crisis both in and out of the Carter Administration.  The strength of this book is his retelling of the human toll of the crisis and how a number of strong personalities were forced to work with one another. <br /> <br />For those of us who remember this time in history, it appeared as if the Carter Administration seemingly bumbled every possible opportunity in addressing the crisis. The book explains how it happened by examining what took place and who was involved both in Iran and the United States.  Thanks to his work, we get a better idea of what many hitorical figures such as Jimmy Carter, Khomeni, Zbignew Breziniski and Cyrus Vance were like. <br /> <br />As a result, I came away from this book leaning something and enjoying the reading while I gained the information.  Solid book that's worth your time.	2005-04-11
US	49586917	RJXIVMHB6095L	0670033448	9843603	The Inner Circle	Books	3	4	6	N	N	I Expect More from Boyle	I've been a fan of T.C. Boyle for quite some time.  Among my favorites of his are some of his short stories, Road to Wellville and Tortilla Curtain.  Along the way he has thrown in a few stinkers such as Riven Rock, but I respect him as a great writer. <br /> <br />In the Inner Circle, it reminds me a bit of Road to Wellville.  In that book, the main focus of the book was John Kellog of cereal fame and took on the issue of dieting and healthcare.  The story had a sense of humor and a number of challenging observations about the subject matter. <br /> <br />In this book the main focus is Kinsey and his pioneering work on sexuality.  It's certainly timely considering the movie, but this book falls a bit short on the subject.  The real protagonist in this book is Kinsey's assistant John Milk.  Milk and his wife Iris are somewhat sympathetic characters but the whole story fails to take life and fails to have that bit of farcical humor that I usually see in Boyle's books. <br /> <br />In some ways it amazes me that a book that is about the quest of the study of sexual behavior fails to excite, arouse or even bring a smile.  In fact, the book's perspective is especially dark and the story essentially focuses on how a man's obsession (Kinsey's) can eventually cause great harm to him and everyone around him. <br /> <br />Overall, I'll tepidly recommend the book because it is well-written and reseached.  It's an interesting topic and Boyle has the talent of creating prose that interests you no matter what the topic.	2005-02-24
US	49586917	R1OWS9QEJQGBCN	1594861617	870855375	Real Men Work in the Pits: A Life in NASCAR Racing	Books	3	9	9	N	N	Interesting but a bit shallow	Some people really know how to market themselves.  During the last few years, Jeff Hammond has went from being a succesful NASCAR crew chief to TV anlayst, pitchman, professional wrestler, rodeo competitor and now book author.  This man has quite an agent! <br /> <br />As for the new book, there's not a lot of new ground.  Although Hammond claims that he is willing to speak out and criticize NASCAR when necessary, there is very little commentary in the book about anything.   <br /> <br />Along the way he provides a number of interesting stories regarding his relationships and experiences with people such as Junior Johnson and Darrell Waltrip but it is merely a recounting of his career with little detail and insight. What I found somewhat surprising is that Hammond spent his last year as a crew chief working with Kurt Busch and for Jack Roush.  That was Busch's rookie season and he is now Nextel Cup Champ, but you won't get to learn a single thing about what the new champ is like from reading this book and very little about car owner Roush who has now won two championships in a row. <br /> <br />It's written well and an easy read but not a great literary work.  The good news is that Hammond is likable, the stories are interesting and it's probably worth the three hours or so that it will take to read this book. That being said, Waltrip's recent book is much more detailed and more worthy of your attention.  The even better news is that Hammond will remain on Fox covering NASCAR where he is one of the best in broadcast analysis of the sport.	2005-02-11
US	49586917	RXW02DCJC6LH9	0374281580	481407616	I Am Charlotte Simmons: A Novel	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Why?	Upfront I'll admit to being a big Tom Wolfe fan.  I loved Bonfire and Man in Full and think that some of his writing on non-fiction subjects are absolutely masterful.  That's why I was thrilled to see his third major work of fiction and was looking forward to being swept up in his incredible writing. <br /> <br />In my opinion, he is still the best writer in terms of advancing the craft of writing.  His prose is exceptional and he can make the description of any event or object very interesting. <br /> <br />The problem is that with I Am Charlotte Simmons, you wonder if his skills and talent as a writer are wasted on an almost trivial subject.  Having Tom Wolfe write about college keg parties and sexual mores would be similar to having Morgan Freeman cast in a Shaft movie.  Wolfe did a great job of chronicling the 80's in Bonfire and the 90's as well as the New South in Man in Full.  While both books had contrived endings, they were brilliant in depicting their time.   <br /> <br />I Am Charlotte Simmons attempts to provide us with a glimpse of today's college experience, thus giving us a window of our future leaders but it rings hollow.  The vast majority of America's college experiences revolve around large universities both public and private.  The small, private and privledged campus described in this book is rather obscure.   <br /> <br />Sure, some of the points that Wolfe makes about college sports, political correctness and peer pressures that are part of campus life ring true but far too much of his book exaggerate and reinforce stereotypes that miss the mark. I realize that's a literary tool but it misses the mark in this book. What's worse is that while he brings characters to life, they fail to make an impact with the reader.  Unlike Man in Full and Bonfire, none of the characters in this book become larger than life.  Instead they are shallow and fail to create much emotion either for or against them. <br /> <br />As a result, I felt that I was more ofa spectator rather than a participant in reading this book much like the fans that watch a basketball game that he describes in the story.  It was fun to read because he is a great writer but I didn't come away feeling that it was a great investment of my time. <br /> <br />Finally, unlike Bonfire and Man in Full, this book does have a somewhat logical ending.  In his two other books, I felt that Wolfe felt compelled to end them eventually and created forced endings that concluded the books but didn't make all that much sense.  This time we have a logical ending but a somewhat unsatisfying one.   <br /> <br />Overall, this is a disappointing book by a great author which makes it better than a lot of books that you can buy, but it makes you wonder how great it might have been had their been an important purpose or need for it.  Instead, I finished the book, wondering why?  What was the point?	2005-01-03
US	49586917	R1TZSX1G6OYCQG	0385507488	148160224	Ted Williams: The Biography of an American Hero	Books	5	4	4	N	N	I Want Montville to Write My Biography	I picked up this book shortly after the Red Sox improbable comeback against the Yankees and their World Series victory more our of curiosity than any great love of Ted Williams. After all, Williams played before I was born.  What I had read before of him was interesting and being a fan of baseball I realized that there are few people who rank higher in baseball lore. <br /> <br />This biography changed many of my opinions.  It takes an exceptional writer to captivate the interest of a reader when the reader is somewhat ambivalent about the subject.  After the reading the book, I can now say that I'm better informed about Williams (Both good and bad), understand the basis for his legend as a hitter, and am interested in reading more about him from other sources. <br /> <br />The bottom line is that I would recommend this book along with Montville's biography of Dale Earnhardt as well.  Montville makes dull subjects interesting and interesting subjects fascinating. <br /> <br />My only quibble with the book is that he fails to mention a Sports Illustrated Article in the mid 1980's that Peter Gammons wrote about a meeting that Williams had with Wade Boggs and Don Mattingly.  The article was a recounting of a night when the three great hitters talked about the science of hitting.  I was only 12 or 13 years when I read that article, but it always stuck with me because at one point Williams claimed that on rare occaisons when you hit the ball perfectly, you can actually smell a burning or smoke smell from the bat.  Until I read this book, it was the best thing I ever read about Ted Williams but Montville, a former Sports Illustrated writer never refers to it in the book.   <br /> <br />Nevertheless, it's a great baseball book that makes great reading.	2004-11-04
US	49586917	R3H4IVBYMI4YNK	0385497385	363263127	D.B.: A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Great Premise Falls Just a Bit Short	What a great idea!  A novel that takes on the legend of D.B. Cooper.  What if he did survive?  Where did he go and what did he do?  That's half of this interesting book by Elwood Reid and by far the best half of the book.  He has created a great historical fiction character that was worth the price of this book. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, the story of D.B. in this book gets intertwined with the life of a newly retired FBI officer who was actually on the Cooper case when it happened.  Years later, immediately after retiring he is pulled back into the case by another FBI officer who harbors a long-held interest in the case.  I won't reveal how D.B. and the FBI come together in this book, but I'm afraid it detracts from the story. <br /> <br />Every once in awhile you come across a book that is written exceptionally well but has plot problems.  This is one of those books where the main character comes alive, the descriptions and flow of the account is great but in the end, it just comes off as too improbable.  Moreover, the other characters in the book just aren't as interesting as D.B. himself. <br /> <br />Still, I liked the book enough to recommend it and will give the author another try in the future.	2004-11-04
US	49586917	R1KY58BNJFEGKC	1400040582	541010635	A Year at the Races: Reflections on Horses, Humans, Love, Money, and Luck	Books	2	10	14	N	N	Great Subject Matter - Disappointing Book	As a horse racing fan, I was looking forward to this book. I've read a number of Smiley's books including Horse Heaven and appreciate her interest in racing. <br />  <br /> The problem is that this book is about a lot more than racing. We hear about Smiley's other horses who aren't race horses. The problem is that she jumps from one subject to another and it's very hard to follow. Worse yet, we spend a lot of time talking about an &quot;expert&quot; who talks to horses and can supposedly communicate with them. Great idea and I'm glad it makes Ms. Smiley happy, but it takes away from the potential value of this book. <br />  <br /> The other annoying part of the book is her vagueness on some topics. She always refers to her trainer on a first name basis. Alexis happens to be Alexis Barba. Why not reveal her last name? Smiley mentions that Alexis Barba took over for Eddie after he died. Eddie is, or was, Eddie Gregson who committed suicide. Whether or not Smiley should have mentioned that fact is open to debate. Since it received extensive coverage in racing circles, I don't have a problem in mentioning it in this review. <br />  <br /> Then there are the other details such as costs. She mentions that taking care of a horse is like paying for the cost of sending your child to an expensive university. Why not tell us how much it is? What does it cost to employ a trainer, to pay for dental work and shoeing? What is the cost for a Lasix shot that must be supervised by a vet? How much is vet care when a horse gets injured? Instead of mentioning them in passing, why not delve into the subject? <br />  <br /> In summary, I'm not sure if I would be as tough on this book if I wouldn't have had such high expectations, but given Smiley's talent, lofty expectations shouldn't be surprising. What is surprising is that Smiley failed to live up to them.	2004-08-02
US	49586917	R1FHVMHHLRPENM	0060005726	767737564	Play Poker Like the Pros	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Useful Book - But Not the Only Poker Guide	Why all the carping and snippy reviews of this book?  One only needs to read the forward by the late Andrew Glazer at the beginning of Play Poker Like the Pros to understand the value of this book.  This is one of MANY poker books that are worth reading.  There is never any claim that this is the best or the only book on the subject. <br /> <br />Smart poker players read from as many sources as possible and try to learn from different perspectives.  Arguing about whether this book is better or worse than Brunson or other books is a waste of time.  Instead of arguing about it, read them both and learn a little from every author you can.  Most importantly if you think there is any book out there that will make you a winner without having to utilize your own judgement and ability, then I hope to see you at the casino so I can take your money. <br /> <br />As with any guide on poker, there are some parts of this book that are helpful and other parts of the book that I don't agree.  The strength of this book is in its strategy discussions for players who are fairly new to playing in casinos, online or in tournaments.  It's a big jump from playing in someone's living room to playing against strangers.  Hellmuth's basic tight/aggressive strategy is bound to be instructive to any poker newbie. <br /> <br />Where the book tends to be lacking is in its discussion of subjects other than limit hold em and seven card stud.  You can tell that the game of Omaha 8 baffles Hellmuth as it does most players and the chapters on Razz and regular Omaha add little.  The other shortcoming is in the discussion of No Limit Hold em. Many more casinos are offering this as a cash game along with tournaments.  You won't learn a lot about that particular game with this book. <br /> <br />The good news is that if you are new to competitive play, you will probably end up playing in a small stakes limit cash game.  This book will help you.  If you are a hardened, poker veteran who wants to improve your game, there are probably other books that you can find to suit your need.	2004-07-29
US	49586917	R3P8LW3C73G9N4	0618164723	392143634	Fat Land: How Americans Became the Fattest People in the World	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Thought Provoking	I know that whenever I read a book and it causes me to pause and think even a few days after I've finished reading, that it has been worth the time and effort.  Fat Land will certainly cause you to take the time to consider your own dietary habits as well as the habits of everyone in the United States. <br /> <br />In describing this book, it is helpful to remember what this book is not.  It is not a diet book.  It is also not an empirical examination of food and dietary policies throughout that last 25 years.  This is meant to be a book that can be read by anyone.  Those seeking more information will find a wealth of footnotes and resources that will direct you to a higher level of detail if you so choose. <br /> <br />What the author does is to raise a number of salient points about the United States.  Far too many of us lead sedentary lives and eat a diet that is vastly different than what was available only 30 years ago.  Since that time, food has been made more convenient.  With that has come more sugar and other ingredients that have made us larger.   <br /> <br />While many of us are cognizant of that and have made a conscious effort to remain healthy, others haven't received the message.  In fact, the author repeatedly makes the point that obesity and its subsequent problems are a bigger problem in disadvantaged communities.  The rate of Type 2 Diabetes among African Americans and Latinos are much higher than average.  Much of that is due to obesity.  This book does an excellent job of raising this type of issue and offering a few solutions to dealing with the problem. <br /> <br />My only disagreement with the book is that I don't think that it right to demonize the fast food industry or our farm policies in urging this country to slim down.  No one forces anyone to eat fast food every day.  While we need to do more to educate everyone on healthy food and exercise choices, I think it is wrong to criticize companies who do their best to maximize profits fromthe sale of legal products.  <br /> <br />Finally, one issue that isn't discussed by the author is the issue of changes in work demands in our society.  Many of us are working more hours and are commuting longer distances.  Fitting in a healthy diet and exercise is a tough challenge. Perhaps his future work can address this variable.  <br />	2004-07-27
US	49586917	R1KE0T8MI5VRQR	0312308906	858144620	The Clarinet Polka: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Great Book on Many Levels	Wow!  This book can appeal to people in so many different ways.  The book is about a Vietnam-Era vet who returns to a small town in West Virginia inhabited by Polish-Americans.  The main character, who spent the Vietnam war in service in Guam, returns to a different country and faces the challenge of reintegrating back into the general population. <br />That's the story in a nutshell but the author tackles a ton of issues along the way. There are great observations regarding the immigrant community, and the conflict of keeping traditions while being in a new country.  He also spends a lot of time regarding the problems of alcoholism and how it can impact relationships with family, friends, lovers and employers.  Also, while I wouldn't characterize this as a political book, the time period forces an examination of not only the Vietnam conflict but also of war in general and how WWII affected Poland. Finally, there is a love story in the midst of all this, and he manages to weave it all into the &quot;heavy&quot; subjects as well as great information regarding Polka music.<br />While there were times the alcoholism of the main character almost overwhelmed this book, the author does a great job of crafting an incredible story.   I didn't have high expectations when I first picked up by the book, and instead was overwhelmed by how much I liked it.	2004-07-01
US	49586917	R2YPUEZINNXJM9	1401352049	632318704	Booty Nomad	Books	2	5	6	N	N	Funny at Times but not Worth the Trouble	I'm not sure the world needs a male version of Bridget Jones.  That's especially true when you consider that the Bridget character had more going for her than the main protagonist in this book named David. For that matter, the same could be said for all the characters in this book who are all self-centered, clueless and without ambition.<br />Of course not all is bad;  the book has some excellent insights and can be very funny in spots.  The main character's work as a producer for a children's puppet show proved to be a great source for laughs and his infatuation with a co-worker was insightful. Unfortunately, the focus was on David's pathetic lovelife outside of work with a collection of women who he only remembered by nickname.<br />I'll skip trying to explain the plot of the book because there wasn't one of any substance. This is a book that is about as significant as a television sitcom.  It was funny in spots and entertaining every once in awhile, but you could spend your time so much more productively.  I'll give this writer another chance because he can be funny, but I hope he will spend some energy on characters who aren't as pathetic.	2004-04-19
US	49586917	R1XKJ05SYEIKSR	0855616539	935495611	The Potato Factory: A Novel	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Covers a Lot of Ground While Holding Your Attention	It's not an easy task to cover a multitude of characters over 50 years time and a few continents but Bryce Courtenay manages to do it with this book.  I was given the book by a friend who gave it to me after I visited Sydney for a short vacation.  I'm not looking forward to reading the next installment in this series.<br />The strength of the book is in its characters.  Mary Klerk, also known as Mary Abacus, is a true heroine who although flawed is someone you can root for.  She survives a debilitating attack, becomes a courtesan, goes to jail, gets sent to Australia, becomes a successful businesswoman and also adopts children.  That's a lot of ground to cover and to weave all those details together without losing the reader's attention is a challenging task.<br />The other main character is a rogue named Ikey Solomon, a thief and fence who you eventually come to respect and like.  Along the way you learn a bit about the early days of Australia and the strange practices of English law, order and justice.<br />My only complaint regarding the book is that it tended to dwell on especially lurid circumstances at times.  Courtenay is such a vivid writer that it provided quite a jolt at times and almost obscured the more positive aspects of the story.<br />Still I recommend it and look forward to more of his books.	2004-04-13
US	49586917	R3CWVQMDJNUZLI	0385505914	870481550	Train: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Racism is a Losing Proposition	This is a tough book to like.  None of the characters are all that redeeming yet I recommend this book because of its insights on the destructive results of racism and discrimination.  Dexter has an important perspective on the subject which tends to show how everyone loses.  He also tends to imply that as destructive as racism is, we are all vulnerable to being sucked into it.<br />The main character in this book is a caddy names Lionel &quot;Train&quot; Walk who is truly a great golfer and eventually is befriended by a policeman/hustler Miller Packard.<br />Being a black caddy in Los Angeles a number of decades ago was not a pleasant experience. During the book, Lionel will be wrongly arrested and will have problems keeping a job.<br />The one job he eventually lands is in playing golf for high stakes with Miller Packard who funds the entire enterprise while relying on Train's abilities.  Packard's experience with racism is exacerbated by the experience of his girlfriend, a social activist whose husband is brutally murdered.<br />Throughout the book, the characters will encounter a number of challenging events that often force them to reconsider their stands on race and relationships.  The only constant in the book is a dark and bleak outlook along with Lionel's stellar golfing.<br />As a whole, the book will not leave you with a warm feeling about humanity but will cause you to think long and hard about an important subject.<br />The only annoyance is there seems to be a few plot threads that are left hanging in the end.  Still, worth reading.	2004-04-12
US	49586917	R316NDC0O0IQ24	0553802941	899001110	The X-President	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Entertaining but could have been better	Time travel to go back in time and change history.  It's not the first time the idea has received literary attention, but the X-President might be the first time has ever written a story about time travel that features Bill Clinton and James Carville.<br />The end result with this book is that it is entertaining although just too over the top to maintain its credibility.  Luckily enough the dialogue from the James Carville character makes it extremely entertaining when it isn't considering the world tobacco wars.  Also the action when the main characters actually travel back in time keeps your attention.<br />The problem is the set up before the action when the main character a Clinton biographer meets with a 109-year old Clinton at his Presidential Library to author his biography.  Unfortunately the biographer's character isn't all that sympathetic nor believable.  Part of the problem is that the author of this book is male while the main protagonist in the book is female. Even the biggest fan of this book will have to admit there is a credibility gap.  It often reads like a man pretending to be a woman and just like in an internet chat room or like Gore Vidal with Kalki, it seems way too fake.<br />Once the preliminaries are over and the actual plot moves forward, it's an easier book to like.  Overall, I give the book high marks for creativity - it's a great idea, but it could have been so much better.	2004-03-25
US	49586917	R3JW7PLVNW49MC	1582343586	378018122	Hey Nostradamus!: A Novel (Coupland, Douglas)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Sometimes Unsettling but Worth Reading	This is not a novel that ties up every loose end and makes it clear what the writer's message or point is.  Life can be unsettling and it can be hard to understand.  That's especially true when high school kids start shooting each other.  When the unthinkable happens, most normal people start to question their long-held beliefs and wonder why such a tragedy can ever take place.<br />That's the backdrop of this book that covers a high school shooting that is set in the supposedly peaceful world of western Canada.  The aftermath of the shooting is told from the perspective of four different people.  It includes the perspective of one of the victims. her boyfriend and his father.  Along the way, the writer provides some interesting perspectives on religious belief, revenge and the animosity that humans can place on one another.<br />There really is no end to the book and it shows how the suffering from a violent crime can continue its impact long after the actual crime.  Sometimes those impacts are caused by people who react to the crime and try to &quot;fix&quot; things.<br />In summary, if you want to read a book that will make you think and will challenge you, then pick this up.  It's not overly ponderous and you can read it quickly but I guarantee that you will be thinking about it long after you are done reading it.	2003-12-08
US	49586917	R2G3C7UHYG6FU5	0375759778	530438268	Prague: A Novel	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Interesting Beginning but Then??	Rarely does one read more than 300 pages and wonder what?  What was the point?  Was there a point?  While I hate to admit this and fear that I might have missed something, I'm not sure what I just finshed reading in this book.<br />The protagonist (John) shows up in Budapest to hang out with his brother and a few other Amercian and Canadian expats who all have legitimate questions about life and their direction.  That's the hopeful beginning of this book (which is set in Budapest and not Prague) and could have kept my interest.  Unfortunately characters come and go in this book and in the end, almost everyone ends up disappointing you.<br />Somewhere in the middle of the book is the rebirth of a Hungarian publishing house after the fall of Communism.  While that sounds hopeful and uplifting, even the means of how it is reborn is somewhat shady and ethically challenged.  Perhaps this is kind of the theme for the entire book.  Life after Communism is full of promise and ideals but in the end, people do take liberties and look out for themselves.<br />The same thing happens with many of the relationships between the characters of this book too.  That's why I came away from the book disliking most of the people and wondering why I spent the time and effort to read the book.<br />In short, I hope you didn't find this review confusing and pointless, but if you did, it only reflects the lack of purpose and direction with this book.	2003-12-03
US	49586917	RHEZX8UC3NQ8G	1400046629	50661136	My Turn at the Bully Pulpit: Straight Talk About the Things That Drive Me Nuts	Books	4	19	23	N	N	Much Like Her Show - Informative and Entertaining	Maybe I'm biased but I've always liked Greta Van Susteren.  She is one of those people that when she is on television, you are drawn to watch her.  I think I feel that way because she is bright, articulate, and can engage an interview subject and challenge them without attacking them. Moreover, she can display a sense of humor and seems to have fun.<br />This book is much like she is on television.  It's concise and to the point and most normal people should be able to read the whole thing in a few hours.<br />My only quibble with the book is that the title seems a bit misleading.  While Greta does weigh in on a number of important topics such as patriotism, the death penalty, her plastic surgery, cable news, corporate ethics and even professional sports, she is smart enough to temper her views.  She rarely jumps on the soap box to take hard stances on most of the issues.  <br />Still I enjoy the book because in what she does write, she reveals more of herself. That works to her advantage because the same appeal she demonstrates on television comes through in the book.  This is especially true in the last chapter of the book that provides some examples of the e-mails she has traded with viewers of her show.  <br />This book won't go down as one of the most important books of our day but if you like Greta, it's worth your time.	2003-11-25
US	49586917	R3NOR0J66JEC3	0871139006	748412016	The Mammoth Cheese: A Novel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Fun to Read but the Story Falls Apart	If you have ever wondered what the real difference between fiction and non-fiction is, the answer is that good fiction actually has to make sense and be plausible.  Real-life, non-fiction often doesn't make sense but a good story had better make sense.<br />Sheri Holman's Mammoth Cheese is guilty of failing to meet the standard. That's not to say I didn't enjoy reading it and would even recommend it to some of my friends but there are too many absurd plot lines to be ignored.<br />The setting of the story is a small town known as Three Chimneys in Virgina.  In my opinion the main character is a farmer named Margaret Prickett who is a divorced, boutique cheese maker forced to make ends meet and raise a junior-high age daughter.  To say she is quirky is an understatement; she forbids her daughter many of the modern pleasures of current life including brand name clothing, fast food, and movies.  She often rails against corporate American and especially corporate farming being the death of the family farm.<br />That's not surpirising because her dairy farm is in foreclosure, so she gets behind a presidential candidate named Adams Brooke who promises to enact an amnesty regarding farm debt to save family farmers.<br />It's a pretty basic story but somewhere along the way we get to learn more about Three Chimneys.  One such person is a woman named Manda Frank who breaks the record for births after taking fertility drugs and being counseled by a local clergyman who happens to be the father of Ms. Prickett's hired hand.  The hired hand is also a history buff who likes to dress up as Thomas Jefferson and re-enact many of his speeches.  Somewhere along the line he mentions the idea of delivering a giant cheese to the new president based on something that actually happened to Thomas Jefferson.  The idea is pushed by his father who starts to feel some guilt regarding the advice he gave to Manda Frank.  Farmer-cheesmaker Prickett ends up making the big cheese for the President,but I will not reveal more of the plot.<br />The problem is that there is too much absurdity for all of this to work.  Multiple firms, Jefferson impersonators, big cheeses, etc.  One story device might have worked, but after all you wonder if the purpose is to come with a farce.  The good news is that Holman can write well so she takes you along and you have fun reading.<br />The problem is that it eventually fell apart when Holman moved away from the plot and dealt with human emotions. The middle school-aged daughter's relationship and feelings regarding her history teacher was somewhat offensive.  Ms. Prickett's relationship with her daughter and farmhand and ex-husband turned her from being a sympathetic character to one that I began to hate. <br />As a whole, it's an ambitious book but it lost me in the end.  After reading it, I didn't gain added sympathy or understanding for farming life which I think was one of her points.  Given the positive points of the book, I will probably read other works by her but this one is a tough one to like.	2003-11-10
US	49586917	R35Y8SRJ01LKLS	0553248642	709366674	The Haj	Books	5	241	252	N	N	Worth Revisiting Given World Events	Writing a historical novel about any period of time can be quite a challenge.  It requires a balance of facts with the need to tell a compelling story that catches a reader's attention much like any other novel.  Usually what happens is that historical novels fall somewhere within the truth/entertainment continuum and will either get criticized for being too factual and boring or on the other hand it gets blasted for playing to fast and loose with historical facts.  <br />The stakes get higher if the historical novel takes on something that is particularly controversial or still in the news.<br />Leon Uris' Haj is a perfect example.  Take a look at all of the reviews from other readers.  There are those who blast Uris for being pro-Israel.  These people claim that the novel is historically inaccurate and hateful towards Arabs.  (Most of these reviews are penned by people who refer to themselves as an Amazon.com customer and refuse to identify where they reside. <br />I'll be the first to admit that this should not be the only book that you should read about the Middle East, but it should be one of the first.  First off, eliminate the politics and read this for the great story.  There are vivid characters in this book which begin with Haj Ibrahim and the countless others he encounters in his life.  Along the way you get a lit bit of everything you would ever want in a novel including love, treachery, suspense and conflict.  Along the way you also learn a great deal about the Middle East.<br />Sure some of it is bound to be controversial but that's especially important in the post September 11 world we inhabit.  This book is set in the late 1940's but how much has really changed.  How many people have died and continue to die on a daily basis because of these religions that are yoked with every sort of prejudice known to man?  There is no doubt that some of the positions espoused by some of the characters in this book will offend some people and brings smiles to others.  Regardless of your political position, it will make you think.  Given the importance of the topic, can there be a better endorsement?<br />More importantly, once you get away from the big world political issues in the book, you will find that its an easy book to read.  The 500+ pages fly by quickly and you soon find that the characters such as Haj Ibrahim, his sons, daughter and Israeli Counterpart Gideon Asch come to life.  Here is where it is important to remember that the book is a work of fiction and a well-written book of fiction too.  Finally, I would reject some of the criticism that has been leveled against this book's ending.  I won't give it away but the ending is appropriate for the culture of the area and the story itself.<br />Mr. Uris recently passed away so now is a good time to reflect on his accomplishments and revisit his work if you read it a few years ago.  If you haven't read Uris in the past, now is the perfect time to get acquainted.	2003-10-15
US	49586917	R16XYQ31PJCVFV	0060531061	45935744	The Tattooed Girl: A Novel (Oates, Joyce Carol)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Fascinating Probe Into the Emotions of Hatred	First off, a brief summary of the story:  A wealthy heir/author who is rather eccentric decides that he needs an assistant.  The author hires a young woman who has been abused and has almost no self-esteem.  Her newest boyfriend is a white supremacist who often waits on the eccentric author at a local cafe. He hates the author who found fame by writing about the Holocaust.  He then spreads his hatred to his new lover, who is the author's assistant.  I'll avoid mentioning the rest of the plot and will not reveal the quirky ending.<br />The true appeal of this story is the way Oates' enters the mind of her two main characters.  The author and his assistant end up sharing a significant portion of their lives together and never connect.  Along the way, their relationship is marred by the stain of religious hatred.  The hatred is more subtle than the usual anti-Semetic, white supremacist vitriol. Most interestingly, it is captured by Ms. Oates in her examination of their thoughts and emotions.<br />Some people have criticized Oates for this in the past which seems ludricous because she's written this way for years.  You'll get your plot eventually and the story will move on, but only until you experience every change in emotion and confusing thought that comes to the mind of each major character.  At times it's unsettling but that's the nature of this story.<br />In the end, you are likely to be somewhat disturbed by the story and the ending, but if it has made you think about certain truths of life, than it was worth your time to read it.	2003-09-29
US	49586917	R13QZJQBKQQJFP	0743245237	188911420	The Rabbit Factory: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Fun Read	This is the first book I've read by Larry Brown and it won't be my last. It's good to see someone else who has captured the spirit of the White Trash South much like Harry Crews has in some of his books.<br />Much like a Sienfeld episode, this book tracks a number of plots and characters that inlcude a cop killer/drug pusher/loser, an older man and his young wife, a prostitute, a couple of memorable dogs including one named Jada Pinkett and a punck drunk sailor.  The stories and characters are all interesting, and funny at times.<br />Unlike Sienfeld, the author doesn't make a huge effort to bring these characters together.  And in the end, you kind of wonder what the point was behind the whole book. In my opinion, it doesn't really matter anyway.  This book is merely a glimpse of life among a slice of people that I'm glad I can read about without having to know personally.  Along the way, it gave me a few laughs and something to pass the time on my train commute.<br />The bottom line is that this isn't literary prize winning material but it's entertaining and much better than a lot of drivle that you can buy.  More importantly, he's a good writer who has no problem keeping your attention.	2003-09-23
US	49586917	R3HU7ZVJZFN4F6	0060195851	324890019	Double Deal: The Inside Story of Murder, Unbridled Corruption, and the Cop Who Was a Mobster	Books	1	8	16	N	N	Sleazy Loser Tries to Cash In	They might have a great sense of humor, or love their mother or support various charities, but in the end, most are cold-blooded murderers.<br />That descripion only fits the top mob bosses. Scummier still are the average hoodlums that make up a crime organization and that's where Michael Corbitt fits in.  A street thug ends up making a few friends that help buy a corrupt gas station business.  Next thing that happens is that he joins a corrup police force in Illinois and when the drunken chief retires, he is made chief.<br />Eventually, the law and his fellow sleazebags catch up with Corbitt so here comes his book.  Sure, the book is interesting, but Corbitt was never a main man.  He was just a very small player in a much larger organization.  What's shocking is that he was able to so as a top police official in Illinois, but given some history in that state, how surprising is it?<br />To summarize the book, you will find that Corbitt has killed people, he helped cover up a murder, he was involved in all kinds of other corrupt illegal activity, he stole millions from the taxpayers of his community.<br />Somehow I'm supposed to feel sorry for this scumbag or have sympathy for him?	2003-09-19
US	49586917	R31SH04UL0BMNA	038572179X	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	5	1	2	N	N	This Book Won Me Over	At first I wasn't sure how I would react to this story, but what a story it is!  The first section of the book that details the happenings of a summer night in 1935 is absolutely riveting.  It manages to do it even thuogh it is very hard to find a true hero or heroine in the book. The night is a tragic one that leads to false accusations of rape against an innocent man.  The rest of the book deals with the aftermath of the evening for many decades.<br />As the story moves on to World War II and beyond, the story becomes grittier and it eventually challenges you to think about a number of basic values. Values regarding family, relationships and the ability to move on from injustice.<br />It's a sad book but it will move you to think even though it takes a few pages to get hooked.  Once you meet the main characters and get to the first part of the action, you will find it impossible to put down.	2003-09-18
US	49586917	R1PPK1N967NTL8	097264010X	216762851	Betting on Myself: Adventures of a Horseplayer and Publisher	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Well Written Memoir from a Fascinating Person	Unfortunately, horse racing continues to decline in popularity and rarely gets mainstream attention.  If it did, this book might be a bestseller.  Steve Crist is one of the best horse racing handicappers in the world but will be mainly revered by most horse racing fans as the man who had the guts to take on the Racing Form a number of years ago and then to come in and save the publication from its decline.<br />During what has been a short career, Crist has went to lead horse racing writer at the New York Times,editor of the Racing Times, served on a statewide commission regarding horse racing and now is the publisher of the Daily Racing Form.  All of this is recounted in the book with prose that is easy to read and very informative.<br />The only minor quibble I would have with the book is that Crist spends very little time discussing the craft of betting on horses.  He spends a few pages talking about the Pick Six, an exotic wager that he has hit many time, but doesn't explain his strategy in all that much detail.  In some ways I don't blame him, but I sense that I could learn a lot from him which is why this book is worth buying.	2003-09-17
US	49586917	R17ZI6KUZL5AD0	0066212618	865652432	Mafia Wife: My Story of Love, Murder, and Madness	Books	1	15	18	N	N	Tired of Sleazy People Cashing In	Lynda Milito would like to have you believe that she is a tragic figure that has suffered because her loving husband was murdered.  She would like to have you believe that she is the victim and that the evil monsters of organized crime are to blame.<br />I'm getting kind of tired of these lurid tales of scummy people writing about organized crime.  Ms. Milito's husband was a cold-blooded murderer who drew his wife and his entire family into a life of theft, robbery and general lawlessness.  Ms. Milito was fully aware of what was happening and lived an extravegant lifestyle while her husband was alive.<br />Finally, it did catch up to her and she snivels about how the other mobsters hurt her.  What did she expect?  <br />The people whom I would recommend the book to would be to teenage girls who are thinking of dropping out of school.  Ms. Milito's life is a great example of what happens to you when you don't take education seriously.	2003-09-16
US	49586917	R1Z43BKB8GKD3T	0060197331	261519532	Roone: A Memoir	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Brought Back Memories	Every once in awhile you find someone who loves their work.  They don't mind putting in 18 hours a day on the job, because it's their life and it's what brings them happiness.  Such was the case with Roone Arledge.  Roone not only brought happiness to his own life but he brought a lot of happiness to viewers too.<BR>His recent death probably wasn't all that surprising because he had come to the end of a very long and productive career.  The end of the career in many ways was the end of his life.<br />His work in building ABC Sports and News will live on for decades.  Millions of people tune in every night to watch Peter Jennings' newscasts or to watch Monday Night Football or Nightline.  All of it can be traced back to Arledge's innovation and this book details how it all happened.<br />What I liked best about his book is that he was able to delve into the personal curiosities of many television personalities but he does it without rancor.  For example, Howard Cosell and Frank Reynolds were probably not the easiest people in the world to have working for you.  This book delves into those challenges but still does it in a positive way and you come away with respect for everyone in the book.<br />It's a great read and also a great resource regarding the history of television.	2003-09-16
US	49586917	R2CH9QHVJD6KBI	0805073213	778018824	The Latest Bombshell: A Novel	Books	1	2	13	N	N	Shallow Book Written By Talking Head	While I support our Presiden't strong stand against terrorism, I do understand some folk's concerns regarding the Patriot Act and some of the actions by the Attorney General.  Good fiction can take a stand on political issues as it tells a story and I sense this author has some serious reservations regarding the Attorney General, conservative talk radio hosts, and the military establishment.<br />The problem she has is that good fiction still needs to be plausible and the story needs to make sense.  This book, which is essentially about a government plot to frame a reporter on a trumped up espionage case fails those tests.  The story goes a bit too far over the top.  More importantly, the narrator's perspective as a PR professional/talking head on television is hard to take.  In this case, the writer has written a novel in the first person where the main character is shallow and unlikeable.  She comes off as a ditzy PR person more interested in fluff and yet another example of the Washington elite's lack of understanding of the rest of the world.<br />The positive part of the book is that it is paced well and easy to read.  Yes, you can read this on the beach, but the impression that it will make on you won't last as long as the tan or sunburn you might get while reading it.	2003-08-27
US	49586917	R1MDFQ2BATNNPI	0316341118	537841158	Forever: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Perfect, but Read It and Enjoy	...It's a fantasy story about an Irishman named Cormac McCarthy who gets to live for what seems forever and lives through about 200 years of New York History.  Key word in the previous sentence was fantasy.  No, the author doesn't detail the city's entire history.  No, the main character doesn't receive W2's or pay taxes.  Yes, the author has a few ideological biases, so deal with it!<br />I for one enjoyed the 200-250 pages of set up that leads the main character to New York and to his fateful future. If anything the middle of the book was my problem where the story just seemed to jump from one time period to another without warning.<br />The ending is somewhat unusual but saved the book for me and made the effort of reading it worthwhile. What shined through in the book was the author's love of New York and his principles as a journalist.  ...<br />For me, there were times that I didn't care for some of the author's biases or perspective, but I admire his ability to spin a great story which he does in this case.	2003-08-06
US	49586917	R872FIWUFI29L	0375504567	862994848	Pasadena	Books	3	7	11	N	N	A Very Sad Story	I wanted to enjoy this book but ultimately found it way too depressing.  In this book,  everything that is wonderful and good and successful eventually gets torn down and the is usually tragic.  Loves lost, fortunes destroyed, lives ruined.  Naturally life is full of tragedies, but there are times you wish that Pasadena would at least touch on a few positive themes.<br />The heroine of the book (if you can call her that) is Seglinde Stumpf who soon becomes Linda Stamp and eventually Lindy Poore during her short, tragic life.  Well before her premature death she gets to see the ugly side of life that includes the drowning death of her mother, the duplicity of her father, poor treatment from the men she loves, the death of her brother and the overall malaise of a once grand city.<br />Overall, the writer is talented and he does bring the feel of old time Pasadena and Carlsbad to life for the reader.  The characters are complex yet interesting enough to keep you hooked even if the flow of the events is sometimes hard to follow.<br />I would recommend the book to people from Southern California who have an interest in Southern California's history, but could be of limited interest for others.	2003-07-10
US	49586917	ROCJ7R843W678	0743242432	762027290	No Uncertain Terms: More Writing from the Popular "On Language" Column in The New York Times Magazine	Books	4	15	20	N	N	Remains More Current Than Most Collections	First off, it's somewhat intimidating to review a book authored by such a master of the English language.  While I am of the opinion that I am a somewhat talented writer, there are days when I covet the ability and skills demonstrated weekly by Safire in his language columns.<br />This leads me to the usual problem with books such as this one, which are compendiums of columns that have already appeared in the paper months or even years ago.  In this case, most of these columns were written during the height of the impeachment case against President Clinton.  In our current society where news is reported instantly via the internet, the news events mentioned in this book seem like they happened so long ago.<br />Still, due to the subject matter of focusing on language and its use, the information (or content as Safire points out) is still interesting, humours and educational. He also updates the columns with gotcha letters sent to him from fans around the world who love to catch him on his errors. <br />Also, for those of you who might bristle regarding his political views or history as a Nixon employee can put the bias aside and enjoy the book. I'm downgrading it from five to four stars because of the recency issue, but recommend it and also recommend his weekly column.	2003-06-12
US	49586917	R10NN08DV3BZF0	0375412174	107479604	Good Faith	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Well Written Story About Dubious People	I've had the pleasure of reading a number of Jane Smiley's novels and have often come away with a common reaction. I think she is a great storyteller and always finds a way to write a story that holds my interest.  The one weakness or at least the one thing I don't like about most of Smiley's books is that she always fails to create appealing characters.  <br />This time, our protagonist is a realtor named Joe Stratford. He's well-liked in the community but already has gone through one failed marriage and is sleeping with another man's wife who happens to be the daughter of one of his clients and business partners.  Along the way, (perhaps a commentary on the vapid 1980's) our main character manages to snort coke with yet another love interest and be incredibly self-absorbed and gullible.<br />He happens to be the most likeable character.  The most memorable character is Marcus Burns, who claims to be an ex-IRS agent and has a host of hare-brained, get-rich-quick schemes. <br />While I will refrain from giving away the story and ending, you end up getting a book that moves well, a plot that's interesting, but a story that contains a whole bunch of people that you wouldn't want as your friends.  <br />Given all of the recent attention on accounting, and other business scandals, it's a timely look back on a decade when some of the country lost common sense principles, but it didn't leave me all the warm after reading the book.<br />In short, Smiley is a great writer who can get your attention and keep it.  She is adept at writing about a host of different subjects, but I do hope she creates more positive characters in at least one of her books.	2003-06-10
US	49586917	R7SWH7F8XSZY6	0399149244	81364874	Tricky Business	Books	3	15	17	N	N	Enjoy It For What It Is	If you want to read a fun story that is an easy read and will make you laugh, pick up this book and enjoy yourself.  If you are looking for serious literature with important insights on the human condition and the meaning of life, I suggest you look elsewhere.<br />This funny story set on a gambling boat sailing in a hurricane is quite witty and creative.  Along the way Barry manages to skewer local news broadcasters, organized crime, backsliding professional musicians, senior citizens, and the primal urge to gamble.<br />The story itself which involves underworld drug dealing and profit skimming along with an action plot isn't all that important. It's merely there to give Barry an opportunity to make funny observations and create memorable characters.<br />The bottom line is that it's funny but I'm not sure I would recommend paying the full hardcover price for it. [...]	2003-05-29
US	49586917	R2YA7GHP7XSG3N	0345438825	898191940	Angry Housewives Eating Bon Bons	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Even a Man Can Like This Book	Ok -- I'm not part of the sisterhood.  I'm male and I'm straight and normally guys like me would be put off by a book like this.  Yet, I was drawn to it by its goofy title and ended up enjoying the book because of its memorable characters.  The short summary of the book is that you follow the lives of four housewives and neighbors who form a book club and meaningful friendships.  Along the way, you get a taste of the way the world changed between the 1970's and 1990's and you get to feel as if you know the main characters quite well.<br />What I found amazing is that you even get to like and remember secondary and supporting characters such as husbands and children. Most importantly all of this happens with a lot of humor, some insight and the occasional sappy story that might draw a tear or two.<br />My only fault with the book is that it seemed much more richer at the beginning of the book as the characters first learned more about each other.  Later on in the book, the human interaction seems to slow a bit.  In fact, the book club even adds a gay male as a member whose role as a confidant is important but seems to distract at times.<br />As a whole I enjoyed it a great deal and found myself laughing out loud more than a few times.  I also marveled at how close and important female friendships can be. Some other reviewers have mentioned that there are other books that cover this ground better.  While that might be true, I would endorse this book to just about anyone.	2003-05-02
US	49586917	R1YD9DWXU11VGM	0060510269	103340626	Slider	Books	3	3	5	N	N	A Pleasant Story -- Flawed but Fun	I'm somewhat taken aback by the negativity of some of the reviews that other readers have posted regarding this book.  Yes, there are inconsistencies but this isn't Bill James and the Baseball Abstract.  At its heart it's kind of a romantic novel that uses baseball as its backdrop in writing about setting goals and reaching them.<br />Focusing on the baseball content of this book and then criticizing it for it's lack of accuracy, would be about as stupid as watching Get Smart to do research on the CIA. <br />Instead, I would suggest that readers focus on some of the relationships between the characters in this book.  The interplay between star pitcher Jack Farber with his father and catcher make for great reading.  The same is true for the descriptions of the Northeast and some of the some small cities the Cape League plays their games.<br />Where the book does tend to fall apart is at the end.  The writer attempts to make a negative statement about the attitudes of professional athletes by concocting an unrealistic ending that is far too predictable.  <br />Still, I enjoyed reading the book and would recommend it to most people.  In fact, I would even it recommend it to most baseball fans with the exception of those geeks that spend way too much time with box scores rather than with real life.<br />Finally, another recommendation for a fun baseball book would be Summerland by Michael Chabon.	2003-03-26
US	49586917	R3QOPRF5J4E96M	0786888083	61020260	Confessions of a Dangerous Mind: An Unauthorized Autobiography	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Who Cares About Whether It's All True?	We can spend a lot of time arguing about whether or not the CIA ever hired Chuck Barris to kills Soviet Spies throughout the world.  We will probably never know the truth and maybe it's best we never find out.  <br />Still, there are a few facts about this book that you can't argue.  First off, Chuck Barris is a very funny person.  If you don't find yourself rolling with laughter at a few passages in this book then you have no sense of humor.  Even if you thought the Dating Game and the Newlywed Game were affronts to civil behavior, you will laugh at some of his recollections about those shows. The same is true for some of his memories about the Gong Show.<br />Another fact about this book is that Barris is very self-centered and narcisstic at times.  For that reason, you might come away after the reading this book with a negative opinion about Chuck Barris the person.  Still, you will do so with some fun because he can spin quite a yarn. Even if you don't believe any of his CIA stories, you will enjoy reading about them.  You might think Barris is either a jerk, a liar, or similar to the people you knew in college, but you will still have fun reading this book.	2003-03-26
US	49586917	R14GOWJATT3VVN	0684873230	581985231	Kingdom of Fear : Loathsome Secrets of a Star-Crossed Child in the Final Days of the American Century	Books	3	21	33	N	N	Nothing New Here	Much like an aging rock group that continues to pack county fairs and other venues by playing their old hits, Hunter S. Thompson continues to release new books with very little new material.  This book is billed as a memoir but you've already read what he's had to say in previous books.  <br />Once in awhile, Hunter gets on a roll with an interesting riff about an event in his life that will make you howl with laughter while he also makes a number of important observations.  The problem with his writing in general is that it only happens every so often.  The good part about his writing is that when he is successful, no one does it better.<br />Unfortunately, this book offers little in breaking new ground.  It's still worth picking up but pales in comparison to his classic works such as Fear and Loathing in Las Vegas. <br />My final comment is that Hunter has failed to capitalize on his standing to continue being a relevant voice regarding today's United States.  He could have easily used this book as a platform regarding Sept. 11 and President Bush's handling of the war against terrorism.  Thompson briefly touches on the issue and lashes out at Ashcroft and Rumsfeld but what he has to say isn't unique or particularly insightful. <br />It's indicative that time has passed him by, but many of us will still treasure and remember most of his older work.	2003-03-10
US	49586917	R19KTEGZJVS9R5	0525946500	364852082	Charleston	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Interesting Book in an Unexpected Manner	I've had the pleasure of reading two other books by John Jakes which I enjoyed and was expected to read something similar in Charleston.  I was somewhat drawn to the book because Charleston itself is somewhat unique in southern history.  While it suffered mightily because of the Civil War, the city did escape the worst of Sherman's wrath.  <br />I hoped to gain some insight on that in reading this book, but found that I didn't learn as much about the war and Charleston.  While I was somewhat disappointed toward that end, I did learn a lot about Charleston's slave owning past.  This book's story actually takes you back to the Revolutionary War and provides a long-range view of the city's history. I have to give exceptional credit for the way he treats the issue of slavery and racial politics in the south.  He clearly takes a strong moral stand without being preachy.<br />This is all presented as part of a multi-generational story of a prominent family.  The family story often reads like a soap opera but along the way Jakes provides an interesting recounting of history while spinning his tale.  In some ways,it reminds me of Edward Rutherfood's books on England such as Sarum.<br />This isn't Jakes' best book but it's worth your time and an interesting read.	2003-02-25
US	49586917	R3G5GGXLF7XE8L	0399148582	193057565	You Cannot Be Serious	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Could Have Been Better - Could Have Been Worse	When I listen to John McEnroe as a tennis commentator I often wish that other former athletes were as candid and insightful as he is.  I figured that his autobiography might provide similar insight and entertainment.  I can't say that the book succeeds in this regard but it is still rather interesting and entertaining.<br />The quick summary is that McEnroe grew up in a comfortable environment as a child and was able to transform tennis talent into a life of celebrity and athletic greatness.  He's bright and articulate but also rather shallow, extremely sensitive, somewhat self-centered, but has generally decent intentions.<br />For tennis fans and fans of McEnroe's, the book provides a nice recounting of his tennis career.  I especially enjoyed reading about his personal impressions of some of his opponents including his disdain for Jimmy Connors, his relationship with doubles partner Peter Fleming and his strange respect and awe of Bjorn Borg.<br />The problem I have with the book is that in attempting to reveal his personal life with Tatum O'Neal and his current wife Patty Smyth, he doesn't do himself any favors in terms of image.  He also doesn't reveal much about himself. In contrast we know how screwed up (in his mind) that Tatum O'Neal and her family are, but very little introspection on himself. <br />Indeed he even admits in the book that even in his playing days he rarely admitted that someone beat him.  Instead, he had some sort of excuse for why he lost.  In this book, he also has plenty of excuses for some of his \\"losses\\" off the court and gives off the impression that he would be fine to share a few beers with, but would be awful to have as a friend.<br />In short, if you were a tennis fan when McEnroe, Connors, Vilas, and Borg were the stars, read this book.  Otherwise, it's kind of interesting but you could spend your time better elsewhere.	2003-02-14
US	49586917	R3K6Z9WHPXQZWN	0805065881	345372324	Brotherhood of the Bomb: The Tangled Lives and Loyalties of Robert Oppenheimer, Ernest Lawrence and Edward Teller	Books	2	23	30	N	N	Great Subject -- Poorly Written	I've always found the subject of America's quest to build the atomic bomb to be one of history's most fascinating subjects. There are few things that have changed the course of world events more than the Allied victory in WWII and the onset of the nuclear age.<br />A number of years ago, I had the pleasure of visiting Los Alamos, New Mexico, and spent half a day at the museum near the lab that detailed the development of the bomb.<br />That's why I was excited to see this new book about Lawrence, Teller and Oppenheimer and quickly sat down to read it.  Now that I've finished it, I don't think I know much more about what happened than I did before picking up the book.<br />Sure, there are some fascinating passages about the scientists and their relationships with one another, but there is very little actual information on what happened.  Part of the problem is that the book is so clumsily written that it is too hard to follow.  The writer alternates between writing about the development of the bomb and writing about quest to prove Oppenheimer's loyalty and subequently fails to include enough substance on either subject.  To give you an idea, the actual detonation of the first atomic bomb in White Sands is given only a few pages.  Subsequent tests are barely mentioned at all.<br />Thankfully, the writer covers the issue of Soviet espionage and the questionable behavior of the Oppenheimer brothers but even that discussion seems to have the proper context.<br />I'll give it two stars because of my interest in the subject matter but I wouldn't recommend it to anyone else.	2003-01-29
US	49586917	R1XEGL1KEZTDSI	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Worth Your Time -- Stunning Debut	Yet again, another solid book from a graduate of the University of California Irvine Creative Writing program.  In this case, The Lovely Bones is one of the best new novels that I've come across in a long time.<br />When I first heard about the book I'll admit I was a bit skeptical.  The idea of a story told by the spirit of a murdered young girl (Susie Salmon) sounded gimmicky. Yet, this book transforms what could end up like a cheap gimmick into a moving story that is gripping, surprising and full of important messages and observations about loss, the importance of family and growing up.<br />In this case, the book details the crushing impact of violent crime on a family.  It's similar in some cases to Joyce Carol Oates' We Were the Mullvaneys and Donna Tartt's new book, The Little Friend.  Of those three books, this is the most personal. The characters of Susie's family, friends and the perpetrator come to life in a way that makes it hard to put the book down.<br />The only small complaint that I might have is that the book might have become a little too mushy and sentimental at times but my reaction at the end was that I was glad that I read this and heartily recommend it.	2003-01-28
US	49586917	R3UJVSYR5AV831	0452282829	872593606	We Were the Mulvaneys (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sad Story Worth Reading	Think you have the perfect American family? Honestly, how strong is it and where does it unravel?  Joyce Carol Oates answers that question in this riveting book about the impact of a violent crime on what was thought to be the perfect family.<br />First off, I should explain that this isn't a light read that will put a smile on your face.  While the ending provides a little ray of positive hope, you are dealing with a story that spends a lot of time on how people hurt each other. The physical victim of crime is only the first person to feel pain.  The impacts can then cascade to others and as a reader of this book, you will feel some of that pain.<br />Recently there have been a few other books that have explored this topic in different ways.  The Lovely Bones by Alice Sebold is one example and Donna Tartt's new book, The Little Friend reminds me of this book too.<br />What makes this book memorable is Oates'writing.  I've found that people either love her work or hate it with a passion.  Count me as a fan.  I'll admit that she could be more concise and she rarely writes anything too light and refreshing, but she never fails to elicit my emotions. In many cases, they are feelings that don't make me all that comfortable but they do make me think.  <br />This book is worth reading although it will upset and sadden you.  It's worth reading because you will react and you will examine a number of very important issues.	2003-01-24
US	49586917	R33OG0VNA46OA5	0679439382	39256491	The Little Friend	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Flawed but Worth the Time	Something smells fishy here.  The vast majority of reader reviews on this website for this book are extrememly negative and tend to repeat the same comments.  The negative reviews are given plenty of positive review comments while those who like the book are criticized. Also, almost all of the negative reviews have been made by people who do not have an Amazon account and can not be e-mailed.  I think we are seeing an organized effort to trash this book. Probably some fool on the internet trying to rally rancor for Donna Tartt.  Stupid lemmings.<br />I'll admit that this book has its problems, but I did enjoy reading it on a number of levels.  For those of you who criticized the book for being overly long, the length is necessary to develop the characters.  Tartt has succeeded in creating a number of memorable people including the protagonist Harriet Dufrenses, her family of eccentric aunts and the antagonist Ratliff family.  Some of the character devlopment might not have been necessary for the plot, but it made me more interested in the plot because I knew more about the people involved in it.  My only complaint is that she didn't do enough on some characters to make them more likeable.  For example Harriet's sister Allison could have been an important player in this story, but she was no more than a caricature.<br />As for the plot, the story which looks back on the murder of a young child (Harriet's brother) is a gripping one, once it gets started about 100 pages into the book.  Essentially the plot is a young child's reckless search for her brother's murderer. Along the way, Tartt makes a number of sound observations regarding the South. Unlike the misinformed ranting of one other reviewer, Tartt is very critical of the region's racist past.  In this book, white trash racists are ridiculed for what they are.  While the ending can be rather unsatisfying, unfortunately so is life when it comes to trying to understand the impacts of violent crime.<br />As a whole,I enjoyed this book on many levels and especially for portraying how the victimization that takes place because of a violent crime can cascade for generations.  In a similar vein I would recommend Joyce Carol Oates' We Were the Mullvaney's.  Of course, Oates is often criticized for being too wordy and for stretching ouit plots just like Donna Tartt is.  <br />In summary, if your idea of good reading is USA Today or Cliff's Notes and you are easily swayed by organized internet paranoia, stay away from this book.  On the other hand, if you can think for yourself and enjoy complex writing with a very tense plot that takes awhile to develop, buy this book.	2003-01-13
US	49586917	R22CIQI0781MWW	0375505423	271998417	Worth the Fighting For: A Memoir	Books	4	6	9	N	N	A Short Glimpse Into the Life of a Leader	This probably isn't the best place to start your search on more information on the life of Senator McCain. Other books have been written about him and by him that provide more information his past.<br />Still, this is a great book to garner information on the Senator McCain of today.  The book profiles some of the people that he has looked up to and emulated including Senator Scoop Jackson, baseball legend Ted Williams, Senator John Tower and Barry Goldwater.  <br />In doing so, McCain also covers a number of major news stories that have involved him including normalization of relations with Vietnam, his presidential run, and the Keating Five Scandal.  <br />What I liked about the book and what I like about McCain in general is his willingess to be open and tell you what he thinks.  I'm not sure I always agree with his opinions, but at least I have a good idea on what those opinions are. I especially appreciated his willingness to openly lash out and question the religious wing of the Republican Party.  (Now don't you nutball right-wingers overreact, he also is very critical of President Clinton's foreign policy. . .)<br />Of course the bottom line question is whether this book is worth the full price in its hardcover edition.  The answer is probably not so get it when its discounted, or in paperback. This is an interesting book, a sometimes moving book and worth reading, but it's not a must-have classic that you need to spend too much on just to read once and leave on the book shelf.	2003-01-02
US	49586917	R28NZRYBFEED63	0786867345	399419494	Carter Beats the Devil	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Fun Story -- Disappointing Ending -- Worth Reading	Let's face it:  it's hard not to be enticed by a story that involves a historical magician of some renown (Charles Carter) in a plot that involves the possible assasination of a president, Philo Farnsworth, Borax Smith and a team of bumbling Secret Service Agents that remind you of the Keystone Cops.<br />That said, it's often hard to take such an outlandish story and make it ring true in the end.  After reading chapter after chapter of a fun story, the ending was so strange that it almost ruined it for me. Still, I have to marvel at what an interesting book the author created. While disappointed with the ending, I enjoyed the journey or getting to the end.<br />Finally, I should close this review with an observation regarind the Creative Writing Progam at the University of California, Irvine.  The roster of published writers from that program is quite impressive (Aimee Bender, Michael Chabon, Richard Ford, and Louis B. Jones among others) and bodes well for future releases.	2002-12-30
US	49586917	RPL2OY1KQU2YW	0060008725	906069744	Tishomingo Blues	Books	5	11	12	N	N	High Divers and Civil War Re-Enactors -- Typical E. Leonard	Once again, Elmore Leonard has managed to put together a wonderfully delightful book featuring the antics of bumbling criminals and flawed heroes all in a strange backdrop of unique characters.<br />This time the setting is a casino in Mississippi and our hero is a high diver who is hired by the Casino as a sideshow to attract gamblers.  Along, the way, our hero will encounter alluring women, murderers, conmen, tough drug dealers, the FBI and crooked businessmen.  Like almost every Elmore Leonard book, the story is almost impossible to describe because it takes a number of strange turns that are impossible to predict.  You aren't always sure who are the good guys or the bad guys and sometimes the status of a hero or bad guy changes rather quickly.  Of course this all happens thanks to great dialogue and a snappy writing style that makes it hard to put the book down.<br />The strangest part of this book regards the \\"hobby\\" of Civil War Re-Enacting which becomes a critical part of the plot.  If you aren't familiar with this endeavor, I suggest you read Confederates in the Attic by Tony Horwitz.<br />In any case, pick up this book and enjoy it.  As usual for Leonard, this book won't win any awards for being serious literature but it is fun to read and I hope that it is treated well by Hollywood when they option the book.	2002-09-25
US	49586917	R1L6GV2CG0JET7	0312282575	635122671	Knight: My Story	Books	2	9	9	N	N	Great Coach -- Not So Great Book	Let's get my bias out of the way first:  I like Coach Knight.  While he has lost his temper at times, he is an honest person and a fine teacher of college men.  The vast majority of players who have played for him claim that they are better people because of him and I believe them.<br />That being said, I can't get quite excited about this book as I can regarding Texas Tech's chances in the upcoming basketball season.  While this book is full of many interesting anecdotes and stories, it lacks organization.  This is especially true as you near the end of the book.  Instead of following an outline or logical flow, the book jumps from issue to issue and story without logical transitions.<br />Overall, I would recommend it to people who are big Bobby Knight fans except that I would be surprised if there is anything in the book that would be all the surprising to a big fan. What I enjoyed was when he would share his opinions of other sports stars and coaches and even his opinions of political leaders.  For example we learn of his friendship with Ted Williams and hunting trips with President Bush and Stormin' Norman but that comes mixed between some other topics that aren't as compelling.<br />There have been other books written about Knight such as Feinstein's that might not be as flattering but might be more compelling to read.  I would recommend reading this book and one of the others and comparing them.  It would make for an interesting contrast.<br />In short, I'll be rooting for the Coach again this season, but it won't be beacuse of anything that I read about it in this book.	2002-09-25
US	49586917	R3QCWN0891YTER	0312282753	639616457	Money Wanders: A Novel	Books	2	4	7	N	N	More Narcissism By A Public Relations Hack	Why am I not suprirsed?  A public relations professional decides to write a novel that suggests that the power or PR is so pervasive and important that it can turn the fortunes of a mafia murderer.  Only a narcissist like Eric Dezenhall could suggest such a hypothesis.  In this case, the main character is a maligned campaign consultant (seems to be patterned after Ed Rollins) who is then hired by a mob leader to help his quest for a New Jersey gaming license.  <br />Suprisingly enough, the plot of the book and its unique characters almost are good enough to give the book a positive recommendation.  The pages turn quickly as you read through a story that includes a number of public relations stunts to boost the mobster's standing in the community.<br />In the end, there are a number of plot twists that give you a bit of a surprise ending but there were too many problems with the book for me to recommend. The biggest of the problems was that dialogue is not handled very well by the author.  There were far too many times where I had to put down the book for a few minutes and re-read passages to determine who was saying what in the conversation because Dezenhall did not tag the identifications well.<br />Finally, the main characters love interest with a musician who plays at his uncle's funeral just didn't work for me.  He attempts to use her as the connection to his past/family and how he got mixed up into the the mob, but it never seems very plausible.  While the ending is a bit of a surpise, it's not all that satisfying because it is a bit too contrived.<br />In the end, while most PR pros might think they are so good that they can make a murderer/mobster look good, the facts are that you can spin the facts only so much until people are on to you.	2002-08-19
US	49586917	RZ2S697RC3E8	0374129983	647099960	The Corrections	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unsettling Book is Worth Reading	Every once in awhile you confront a novel that forces you to re-examine your views on a number of important subjects.  Sometimes that realization doesn't come until after you complete reading the book, which didn't seem all that profound while you were getting through it, however at the end it hits you.  Such as is the case with this very unsettling novel \\"The Corrections.\\"<br />The story is in many ways a narrative of the Lambert family, comprised of patriarch Alfred, his wife Enid and offspring Gary, Denise and Chip. While Enid and Alfred have been married for decades, it's safe to say that the family is horribly dysfunctional.<br />The story reflects on the history of the family and mostly on the impact of Alfred on the rest of his family.  His decisions and choices in life impact the others for decades on end and provide the basis for the entire book.<br />Along the way the author touches on a number of hot button subjects including dementia, caring for the aged, drug abuse, mental illness, drug therapies to treat mental illness, stock manipulaton and greed, sexual feelings and actions of various stripes, the irrational expectations that families place on its members, parenting and an overall examination of the meaning of life.<br />The author weaves this story with a mix of humor and irony that sometimes is overwrought but it is compelling.  I've noticed that a number of reviewers have complained about the characters in the book but that's probably because there are plenty of kernels of truth in this book that probably remind people too much of their own lives.<br />The book made my very uncomfortable a number of times and I'm still grappling with some of its implications.  The issues of caring for aged parents and the sometimes related issue of mental health among seniors is not an easy subject to confront.  Luckily the book intersperses the uncomfortable with humor, but don't pick this book up if all you want is sweetness and light.<br />Overall, I recommendthe book and applaud the author for his courageous examination of these issues.	2002-08-05
US	49586917	RTQ01AH9AXVMB	0765300117	139444516	Too High	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Goofy Book is Hard To Put Down	I'll admit that I picked this book up when the author was compared to Elmore Leonard and Carl Hiasan.  Sounded like a good combination of suspenseful crime fiction added with Southern Humor.<br />This book which features a number of memorable characters including Digger Fitz and a fundamentalist milita member Jesus-Bob is alternately suspenseful, funny and a profound observer of southern culture (although the story is based in Kentucky which is on the cusp of being southern.)  The basic plot of the story is the unraveling of a murder of a family member of Digger Fitz.  In unraveling that mystery, the story takes all kinds of twists that include early American History and the militia movement in this country.  Although the story is a farce, I credit the author for writing a book that is much deeper than just its comedy.<br />In addition to the previous comparisons with Elmore Leonard, etc., another comparison could be made to Harry Crews.  However, unlike Crews' work there is a positive optimism in this book.  Yes, there are plenty of scummy characters in this book, but there are also some good ones that will put a warm smile on your face and give the book redeeming value.<br />It's not a classic but it's worth reading.	2002-07-08
US	49586917	RK0GWRT00CPK1	0743226070	565555697	The Rehnquist Choice: The Untold Story of the Nixon Appointment That Redefined the Supreme Court	Books	3	16	35	N	N	Good Read by Dubious Writer	Unfortunately I've come to notice that people tend to react to reviews on the Nixon Administration based on ideological positions instead of the actual review of the book.  What I think of Richard Nixon and my political are irrelevant, what you need to know is what I think of this book.<br />Given that preamble, I would warn you to avoid this book if you are hoping to read a scholarly analysis of how William Rhenquist was appointed to the Supreme Court.  What John Dean provides in this book is a well-written anecdotal review of Richard Nixon's Supreme Court selection process. What becomes obvious in reading the book is that Dean was pretty much out of the loop of the day-to-day operation of the White House.  While he would like you to think that he played an important role in Rhenquist's selection, he exaggerates his contributions.  More importantly, he offers very little personal insight to the history of the times (because he was out of the loop). This book is merely and attempt of Dean trying to cash in on his White House years. He's a gifted writer which makes the book easy to read, but he's also a lazy journalist.<br />What you get is a skillful retelling of what was recorded on the infamous White House tapes.  It's interesting reading and will keep your attention, but much of the information has been told in other books.  Haldeman's book is much more informative as is Anthony Summer's trashy and sensationalist expose.  <br />As for the Rhenquist appointment, Dean implies criticism of Nixon for being so political, but that's a criticism that can be leveled at many presidents too.  Given Dean's comparitively low standing in the White House, he doesn't have the needed perspective to evaluate Nixon's actions.  <br />Finally, it's very hard to have much respect for Dean on any level.  If you're a conservative you can loathe him for his disloyalty to Nixon.  If you're a liberal you can hate him because he was part of the administration.  What everyone can agree on is that he a shameless self-promoter whose impact on history will be much less profound than he realizes.  The real heroes and villans of the Nixon era (depending on your political views) filled important roles and positions in the adminstration and shaped a history that continues to affect our nation.  Dean was merely a bit player who now has the skill to recount events that happened that he barely affected.	2002-06-27
US	49586917	R2NSZXRXW44G5U	0345424719	685444613	A Widow for One Year	Books	3	17	20	N	N	I like Irving but this isn't his best. . .	Feel free to classify me as a big John Irving fan.  In my opinion, A Prayer of Owen Meany is one of the best books I've ever read.  Other great books by Irving include the Cider House Rules and The World According to Garp.<br />Unfortunately, this book isn't in the same class as the above-metnioned Irving classics.  First off, it's hard to warm to a book that involves writers as its main characters.  There's something self-centered when a writer spends hundreds of pages writing about other writers and it shows in this book.  Part of the problem is that most of the characters aren't very likeable.  The main protagonist is Ruth Cole who is saddled with a mother who abandons her (who eventually becomes a crime fiction writer), a philandering father (who is a children's author), a teen age boy (who grows up to be a novelist) that has an affair with her mother, a sexually free best friend (a journalist), and two husbands (one of whom is a literary agent). Ruth evenutally grows up and becomes a novelist of some renown.    <br />This book is broken into three parts with the first depicting Ruth's very young childhood.  The following two books deals with Ruth as an adult.  While all three of the books are tenuously linked, there are some disjointed components of the story that don't always match. The books go through Ruth's marriages, career and even a bizarre murder in Amsterdam's Red Light district that changes Ruth's life forever.  Regarding the three books, the first one lures you in with attractive sexuality, the second keeps the reader with its plot twists, and the third is an overly long conclusion and denouement that tried to tie up a number of loose ends.<br />The good thing is that Irving does his usual great job in describing events and drawing the reader into the story. Unfortunately, as you are drawn into the story, you find that you don't have a great deal of respect for most of the characters in the book.  In fact, the most attractive and likeable character is the only one who isn't a writer or involved in the literary field and that's a beat cop in Amsterdam. Perhaps Irving is longing for a simpler life that is unavailable to writers who are forced to create?<br />Finally, in addition to disliking the characters I came away disappointed because Irving's motive and message in writing this book seem so unclear.  While it's an engaging story, I'm not sure there was much of a point.  In the end, I was happy to have something that kept me interested on the train to work for a few days but disturbed that such a great writer failed to make clear why he even bothered.	2002-06-18
US	49586917	RHHBD1PK3WWRR	189322435X	228259683	Hughes: The Private Diaries, Memos and Letters	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Too Much Ground to Cover in One Book	Howard Hughes is one of the most interesting people to enter into the public consciousness during the 20th Century. Unfortunately his legacy is one of lunacy, political scandal, and a string of broken relationships with women and business associates. Along the way, the firms he controlled accomplished a great deal and could be studied by business students in great detail. <br />This biography by Mr. Hack tends to focus more on the personal side of Howard Hughes.  If you are interested in who he slept with and who he married, and what kind of drugs he took, this book covers it in detail.  In many ways it's a lurid story that we see in supermarket tabloids.  The difference in this case, is that Hack covers the issue quite well and you come away from the book learning more about Hughes.<br />If you are seeking to learn more about Hughes as a businessman or the business accomplishements of Hughes Oil Tool or Hughes Aircraft, this is not the book for you.  There are plenty of other business books that cover the business side of Hughes quite well.  On the other hand if you are looking for a well-done recounting of Hughes as a person, this book is worth the time.<br />My only real complaint is that it is impossible to fully cover anything about Hughes in just one book.  Most incidents in Hughes'history are given a page or two, but that's necessary to keep the flow of the book moving.  Obviously you could spend hundreds of pages discussing the antitrust case between Hughes Aircraft and TWA but it wouldn't provide the same mass appeal that this book targets.<br />Given the constraints, Hack does a good job and I would recommend it to most people.	2002-06-04
US	49586917	R1VUX763ILVT1K	078686866X	103082357	The Ride of Your Life: A Racecar Driver's Journey	Books	2	2	6	N	N	She's a Better Driver Than An Author	It's hard not to like Lyn St. James.  She wasn't the first woman to drive at Indy but until Sarah Fisher came along she was the most accomplished.  I was looking forward to a book that would recount her successful career and provide unique insight into her accomplishments.<br />She does provide that in this book regarding the amazing challenges she faced just to get into the field in her last race at Indianapolis.  For many underfunded teams, the challenge of qualifying can far surpass what happens on race day and St. James recounts the ordeal with great clarity.  <br />The problem is that the rest of her career is barely touched on in anecdotes about the past while talking about her last season.  I came away from this book learning very little about her life outside of Indy or even her racing career in other auto racing competitions.<br />More importantly, she failed to share many personal feelings or emotions in the book. The most personal story she tells is about how she lost a pet that was hit in a freak accident at a race track.  That story moved me, but little else did.<br />She also fails to discuss the overall state of racing.  Currently open wheel racing in the United States is in a shambles due to a split between sanctioning bodies.  She never talks about the issue and barely mentions the growing success of NASCAR.<br />Finally, the book contains a number of self-help types of advice throughout the book.  They're meant to be inspirational but come off as tired and hackneyed.<br />The book is a pleasant read and St. James is likeable.  The problem is that the book could have been so much more and falls far too short of what it could have accomplished.	2002-05-24
US	49586917	R264WIK9BUZJ4X	074344261X	998323193	Tickled Pink: A Comic Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Fun Book That Is Deeper Than You Think	I'll be honest in saying that I'm sure that this book wasn't written with someone like me in mind. This is a book about and for women and their relationships, and I'm a 35+ man.  Still I like Rudner's comedy and thought I would give it a read and I enjoyed it immensely.<br />This is not high-minded literature.  It's really just a fun book to read on a plane or on the beach.  What I enjoyed about it was the relationship and interplay between lead character Mindy Solomon and her father, her friends, her competitors and her love interests.<br />While much of it is predictable and it reflects many of her comedy routines, Rudner takes the reader through a number of funny scenes and touching commentary of the value of friendships.  The ending is a tad predictable, but you'll end it with a smile on your face and some positive memories that might prevent you from taking your loved one for granted.	2002-05-08
US	49586917	R183VDGSSSWU71	0060197269	819331822	Depraved Indifference	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Compelling, yet Flawed	The idea of writing a fictionalized account of the Santee Kimes case is a good one.  As is often mentioned, truth is stranger than fiction and sometimes more interesting too.  That's especially true of a case so depraved and evil as this one.  In fact, I would worry if someone could make up what happened in this case without knowing the previous facts.<br />Gary Indiana is a very talented writer and communicator and he proves it through much of this book.  The problem is that he isn't always that consistent.  There were times when I marvelled at how vividly he described a character or a scene.  There were times when I couldn't put the book down because the action of what was being told was so compelling.  <br />Unfortunately there were also a number of times when I had to put the book down and re-read passages to figure out where I was in the story.  I know some of the is done for effect and is part of his style, but there are times when I think that he needs to pay a little more attention to the actual craft and discipline of being a writer. While Indiana is describing events that are hard to reconstruct and retell and that he does so in different voice, he could have made it easier to read at times.<br />With that criticism, I still might seek out the other two books of this trilogy.  Depraved Indifference can not be considered as high-minded literature; in fact, it's about as lurid of a book you'll ever find.  Still, I'm drawn to it and think Indiana demonstrates unique talent.  <br />In summary, I guess I would recommend the book with my qualifications and look forward to new work in the future.	2002-05-07
US	49586917	R1GFWFG8EUOOG4	0375401253	285859776	Flinch	Books	2	1	9	N	N	Tough Book To Like	Sometimes, it's the little things than can turn your stomach regarding a book. It can be a minor thing that has little to do with the plot but it can gnaw at the reader.  This is my problem with Flinch. I'm quite familiar with the area's described in this book because I live in Orange County, California. I'm willing to bet that a majority of the people who read this book would gladly trade where they live where I live. Orange County is wealthy, clean and a desirable place to live.  There are nasty areas just like anywhere else.  It's just a shame that Mr. Ferrigno doesn't know the difference.<br />First off, I'm amazed the Mr. Ferrigno's biography includes a stint as a reporter for the Orange County Register.  During this book, Ferrigno demonstrates a complete ignorance of Orange County, California.  While he sometimes gets the descriptions right on the beach communities, he maligns cities such as La Palma and Fountain Valley.  These two cities are wonderful suburban towns to live and raise a family.  Yes, they can be boring and sterile, but they are much nicer than the treatment that Ferrigno gives them.  I won't even get into his description of Anaheim because it isn't even close to reality.<br />Now on to the book itself.  Ferrigno, knows how to spin quite a yarn.  This book which deals with various skullduggery by a bunch of doctors, pro wrestlers, and journalist Jimmy Gage can [pull] you in.  He has a knack for crafting great dialogue and the comparisons to Elmore Leonard make sense in terms of the way the book is written. The comparison breaks down, however, in that you find it impossible to like any of these characters.  With Elmore Leonard there is always a couple of sterling characters mixed in with the miasma of hopeless losers that give the book some glimmer of optimism.<br />In Flinch, everyone is a corrupt scumbag including the lead protagonist.  The ending is a surprise and has a few plot twists and I'm afraid we might see another book to continue thestory. In the end though, what you have is a book full of very scummy people who are often far too violent for most people's taste.	2002-05-03
US	49586917	R9RHDYZOBBBL6	0060621583	460574367	A New Religious America: How a "Christian Country" Has Become the World's Most Religiously Diverse Nation	Books	3	56	76	N	N	Too Much Celebration Without Critcal Thought	This book could have been a winner, and in many ways, it still is.  There is no doubt that America has changed and is now home to the most pluralistic religious environment in the world. Eck has done a great job researching the growth of American Hindus, American Buddhists and American Muslims throughout the United States.  Her anecdotes about visiting many of these congregations and the observations she has are very interesting and informative.<br />Overall, I can't give the book that great of a rating because Dr. Eck is so caught up in the astounding growth of these religions that she often fails to utter a negative comment about any of them.  Now I realize that every reviewer brings their own biases, and in my case, I'm very suspicious of any organized religion.  While I respect the power of religion to do an incredible amount of good in this world, on Spet. 11, we also saw the amount of evil that can be accomplished \\"in the name of God.\\"  <br />While this book was written before Sept. 11, she turns a blind eye to the bad side of religion.  For example, would the keepers of Islam's most holy places welcome an independent woman like Eckk in Saudi Arabia?  Another example of this problem is in her description of the Hare Krishna movement.  Finally, she recounts in a very sypmathetic manner, how some Islamic groups claimed government harassment when they were accused of financially supporting Hamas.  <br />Overall, I have no problem with Islam, or Hindus or Buddhists.  I just think that when criticism of these religions is warranted, it should be mentioned just as it should be with Christianity. The idea of religious plurality and tolerance is a great goal, the problem is that many religions are intolerant by nature, and Eck fails to bring that up in her book.<br />Finally, at the end of the book Eck recounts a news story from Garden Grove, California and quotes the city's Mayor.  Garden Grove is a city of more than 150,000 people and it is one of the nation's mostdiverse cities.  The Mayor, whose name is Bruce Broadwater, is identified in the book as Paul Brockwater.  That kind of sloppiness in a scholarly publication is disheartening and it makes me wonder if similar mistakes were made regarding others with whom I am not as familiar.<br />In suumary, this is an important subject which needs further study.  This book is helpful in providing a surface-level anecdotal approach to religious pluralism but is also a failed opportunity to achieve more.	2002-05-01
US	49586917	R45TAXIGTZZHU	0066620813	906417094	Inviting Disaster: Lessons from the Edge of Technology	Books	5	8	10	N	N	You Don't Need to be an Engineer to Love this Book	Let's face it:  our lives are dominated by technology.  Luckily we rarely have to give it all that much thought.  However there are those times when technology fails us.  Planes crash, disasters like Bhopal happen, let's not forget Three Mile Island adn the Space Shuttle too.  What happened?  How about similar disasters and problems throughout history and little known disasters such as oil rig blowouts?  How did our fail safe world fail?<br />The book Inviting Disaster attempts to answer those questions and does so in an entertaining and informative manner.  Written by an engineer who understands hot to communicate with everyone, this book is a fun read with anyone with an interest in this topic.  <br />I have absolutely no experience in anything mechanical, but came away after reading this book much better informed. In addition to the mechanical explanations, Chiles provides very informative glimpses into history.  He's a good engineer, a good historian, and a good writer.	2002-04-18
US	49586917	R26HV1Y6QQPRZW	1555534074	76262389	The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden, and the Future of Terrorism (Vol 1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	It's a Shame This Book Wasn't Noticed in 1999	I'm sure more than a few people read this book when it was released in 1999 and didn't give it much thought.  For far too long we ignored what was happening around the world as we focused on gossip. politics and other trivial matters.  When innocent people were killed in African embassy bombings or when the Taliban came to power in Afghanistan, we failed to react.<br />Author Simon Reeve did care and wrote this informative book that should have been taken seriously when it was written.  Today, everyone knows who Osama bin Laden is.  Today we know where cities such as Peshawar and Quetta and Kandahar are because thousands died at the World Trade Center, Pentagon and in Pennsylvania on September 11.  Had more people taken heed regarding this type of information, maybe Sept. 11 could have been prevented.<br />This book begins with a recounting of the first World Trade Center attack.  The intent of the terrorists that time were to cause an explosion that would collapse one of the towers into the other.  Later on that same terrorist, Ramzi Yousef thought about blowing a score of airliners out of the sky on the same day,  He hoped to do so with explosives similar to those used by the failed shoe bomber Richard Reid.<br />Sound like an ominous foreshadowing of what eventually did take place on Sept. 11?  Consider that this book was written in 1998.  Obviously the book isn't as fresh and new as it was when it was written but it's still a valuable resource regarding what we face today.  While there are other books with more information on bin Laden, Reeve does an excellent job explaining the roots of the terrorism we face.	2002-04-18
US	49586917	R2WAHPXY9YMF2Z	0066209463	250779400	Middle Age: A Romance	Books	4	50	50	N	N	Fascinating Characters Worth Knowing	First off, I find it hilarious when people criticize Joyce Carol Oates' work for being overly long... The business of every day living is often interrupted mercilessly by tangents out of our control.  Oates' writing often takes on that characteristic as it delves into the thoughts and feelings of its main characters.  Yes, it often takes away from the urgency of the plot, but the people in Oates' books are important and you get to know them at their pace.<br />This brings me to her newest novel, Middle Age.  What's fascinating about this book is that the main character, Adam Berendt is killed off in the first few pages of the book.  The aftermath of his fatal accident sets off a chain of events among his social circle which is comprised of the upper crust of an upscale enclave in New York State.  During this examination of relationships, the plot often takes a number of Oates' normal tangents.  At times, it's uncomfortable but it exposes you to the same state of mind shared by the characters.  <br />The reactions and subsequent foibles of these charaters is memorable and worth every minute you spend with this book.  Sure, some of these characters are vapid and have very little to offer the world but there's value in reading what happens to them. Others become so twisted based on the death of Adam Berendt that they come close to throwing away their lives. The book is billed as  darkly comical but I rarely laughed because I saw so many glimpses of real life in these people.  Some of it was inspirational, a little bit of it was funny, and some of it was disturbing.  In short, it's a lot like many of her other books.<br />The only downside of the book was after I finished and asked myself what she was trying to say in writing this book.  The overall ending and message left me a bit empty, although it could be described as being somewhat positive.  The future for many of the characters in this book, much like the future many ofus face in similar situations, is somewhat unclear and I don't think Oates' provided a strong sense of message or purpose.<br />That being said, I still heartily recommend this book much like I would for many of her books. The main body of the book reveals a lot about human nature and relationships and the stress brought on by tragedy.  This book is a winner but given it's ending I'm interested in seeing which direction she takes in her next work.	2002-04-15
US	49586917	R3L2DVNLZ4AQOV	0385503636	65248788	At the Altar of Speed: The Fast Life and Tragic Death of Dale Earnhardt	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Great Book for Casual Fans	First off, I need to explain that I'm a big NASCAR fan.  Every NASCAR fan, no matter what they thought of Dale Earnhardt when he was alive, understands what a terrible loss took place the day of his crash.  He is impossible to replace and was the one of the toughest competitors in all of sport.<br />That being said I looked forward to reading this book hoping to get a new insight into Earnhardt's life and the man.  Unfortunately, I didn't read much that I didn't already know.  If you were already a big fan of Dale Earnhardt and followed the sport closely, this book will add little to your knowledge.  Mr. Montville is a great writer and he does a great job in writing about Dale Earnhardt in this book. In many ways, this is much like a good article in Sports Illustrated that has been lengthened to fit a book.  If you are a casual fan or have just started to follow the sport, I would recommend the book to you. <br />As for myself as a long-time fan, what I liked best about the book was the stories about Dale and fellow races Neil Bonnett.  It brought out the human side of two very close friends who both left the world far too early. The problem is that there isn't enough of that in the book.  I already know about Dale's racing history and it's not hard to find out from many sources.  <br />In addition, I had a few problems with the book. The problems I had is that Andy Petree is misidentified in one of the book's photos and there seems to be an effort to smear Earnhardt's business manager Don Hawk. Yes, Dale Earnhardt managed to make millions of dollars in his career, and one reason that happened was because of Don Hawk.  It seems as if there is a bit of resentment out there because of Earnhardt's success off the track as well as on it.<br />While I recommend this book to new fans, I would urge long-time fans to find the article that Ed Hinton wrote in the Orlando Sentinel immediately after Earnhardt's death.  As this book brings out, Hinton and Earnhardt were often atodds with one another, but Hinton wrote a beautiful story that shared a number of great anecdotes about some of the unknown stories in Earnhardt's life.  That's what I want to read about and I wish this book would have had more of it.	2002-01-19
US	49586917	R2KGNLEWUKCT0A	0679432477	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Vivid Characters but a Sketchy Plot	I will heartily recommend this book to almost everyone because Iloved the book's characters who so vividly come to life.  Main protagonist Miles Roby, manager of the Empire Grill, is someone you just have to love even if he can be his worst enemy.  The other characters in the book are also vivid and memorable from the dislikable Mintys, to Miles' drunk and disheveled father, to the powerful Whiting family that owns most of Empire Falls including the Grill. <br />For more than 300 pages I was captivated by the characters in this book and yearned to read more.  Most of the action takes place at the Empire Grill owned by Ms. Whiting and along a backdrop of decades of history that tie the Roby and Whiting families together.<br />Along the way, Russo makes some very profound observations regarding the decay of communities and relationships and their eventual renewal.  The links are impressive and it's great writing.<br />My only complaint is that the plot failed to provide much in the way of action and conflict. While the people hooked me, the entire premise for the story, conflict, and eventual climax and conclusion was somewhat weak.  In the end, I almost felt that Russo had to create an ending just to finish what he had started. In short, he created wonderful, unforgettable characters that were all dressed up with no plot or story to play out.<br />It won't be the first time a prominent author has done it (Grisham and Tom Wolfe have had the same problems with multi-million dollar bestsellers. . .)  Overall, I'm impressed by Mr. Russo and look forward to future books.	2001-12-28
US	49586917	R1WMVQNBU3L9XN	0684802317	327792241	President Nixon: Alone in the White House	Books	4	8	10	N	N	History by a Syndicated Columnist	Open up a number of major newspapers and every once in awhile you'll find a column penned by Richard Reeves. Given the limited space available in a newspaper op/ed section, Reeves is rarely given a chance to provide a detailed analysis on any topic.  Instead, he writes intersting opinion pieces on national affairs that are usually worth reading even if you don't agree with him.<br />In his new book regarding President Nixon, Reeves employs a similar style in recounting Nixon's five plus years in the White House.  In many ways, this book is a compilation of anecdotes and brief historical passages that gives readers a glimpse of the Nixon White House and of Nixon himself.<br />The key thing to remember is that it will be little more than a glimpse.  If you are looking for a detailed study of the Nixon presidency, you might want to look elsewhere.  <br />The positive thing about this subject is that there are so many books regarding the Nixon years. If you lived through the era and have read many of the other books such as Haldeman's diary, Nxion's own autobiograhpies or even Anthony Summers hatchet job, you'll enjoy this book too.<br />My only complaint about the book is actually a central part of its premise.  The book centers solely on Nixon without examining his relationship with others.  For example, I would be surprised if there are more than 10 mentions in the entire book about Pat Nixon. There is also very little about his relationship with political supporters other than brief mentions about Watergate-related scandal. Part of Reeve's thesis, is that Nixon was very isolated in the White House and had little human interaction.  The recent theatrical movie also portrayed a very narcisistic human being too.  However, Nixon wasn't a hermit.  He did have friendships with Bebe Rebozo and others and had a enough people skills to set the record for being on the cover of Time Magazine more than any other person. I wish this book would have delved into that greater.<br />In short, this is not the definitive book on the Nixon Administration. Yet, it is an enjoyable read that will certainly bring this era in history back to life. Regardless of your political leanings, Nixon' presidency is worth learning more about and understanding.	2001-12-17
US	49586917	R1PXM4TJ4B18T0	158721427X	402730708	Eights & Aces: A Stock Car Racing Novel	Books	1	4	17	N	N	Great Subject, Lousy Book	Almost every day of the week, if you are a fan of NASCAR, you can read Mr. McGlaughlin's column on the internet. McLaughlin's columns usually take NASCAR to task for becoming a major league sport and wishes it could go back to the days of dumb hicks in the stands spitting tobacco while watching illiterate moonshiners drive beat up wrecks on a dirt track.<br />Thankfully the sport has moved on and is now the nation's fastest growing sport. It's left unsophisticated rabble like McLaughlin behind, yet he continues to spew his dribble on the internet and in this book.<br />Suprisingly enough he has crafted a book with an occasionally compelling story.  It's far too long and overwrought at times, but it's readable if you really enjoy motorsports and aren't predisposed to disliking McLaughlin because of his anti-NASCAR columns and tone.<br />If you're someone who longs for the &quot;good old days&quot; of NASCAR, maybe you'll like this book, but of course you might be illiterate so why would you be looking for books in the first place?  If you're a fan of what NASCAR is today, I would avoid this book like the plague.	2001-12-07
US	49586917	R3B9QWBCBAGBBQ	0151006431	510121269	Elvis in the Morning	Books	3	10	10	N	N	Decent Little Book Doesn't Need A Deep Analysis	There are times when people take things too seriously.  Buckley writing a novel about Elvis Presley!  Must be some deep thinking going on here.  According to my conservative local newspaper, this was quite an exceptional book that saluted Elvis' achievement but juxtaposed it with his demise in hedonistic behavior. <br />I don't think so.  <br />A cute story that is imminently readable from page one.  Most literate people will find this an easy book to read thanks to main character Orson.  Orson's childhood friend eventually goes on to become Priscilla, however the main interest in the book is Elvis's friendship with Orson.  <br />Far too many of the reviews have tried to find deep meaning in this book and have taken Buckley to task for not developing characters enough or having more meaning in the book and I think the criticism is unfair.<br />This is not a serious book that can be considered grand literature.  It's an entertaining book with a cute story that is kind of tribute to Elvis while also lamenting what might have been if it wasn't for his excesses.  Reading this book will not change your world or provide you with great inspiration or insight.  On the other hand, it will make a cross country flight or a rainy day go by a lot easier.<br />In short, I don't recommend this as a must-read book, but if you like Buckley, or Elvis, or if you are looking for a quick, light read, go ahead and read it.	2001-12-07
US	49586917	R1PWF21T3I5PR6	0743202767	216584809	Half-Moon and Empty Stars (Lisa Drew Books)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	I Shouldn't Have Liked This Book, But I Did and Recommend It	When I first picked up this book, my intial reaction was that I wouldn't like it.  I'm peeved by celebrities who cash in on their notoriety to get published.  I'm also not all that interested in Native American culture, and I'm not all that keen on books written by lawyers either.  <br />Even with three strikes against it, this book is a winner.  Most people scoff when confronted with the idea that an innocent person can be executed when our justice system fails.  Not surprisingly, that's more likely to happen to people from disadvantaged backgrounds.<br />Spence ends up spinning a very plausible story that shows how a major punishment such as the death penalty can be trivialized under wrong circumstances. Innocent men can be convicted and put to death. I mention this because I'm concerned about it in spite of the fact that I support the concept of the death penalty.  No matter what your position is on this subject, this book is worth reading because it will cause you to think in depth on the issue.<br />Where the book falters a bit is in its portrayal of injustice against Native Americans.  The main character of the book is a Native American named Charlie Redtail.  Spence tries to make the argument that Redtail ends up as a victim because of his partial Native American heritage. Redtail is in fact the offspring of a white mother and a Native American father. While his white mother is sympathetically written, Charlie Redtail and his brother Billy had lousy parents -- both of them.  Their mother was a hard-working waitress with no education and few aspirations, while their father was a drunk that ended up being kicked to death by a mean-spirited white businessman. <br />Charlie ends up choosing a lifestyle similar to that of his father while his brother Billy ends up going to college and becoming more of a &quot;white&quot; man. Billy ends up being a millionaire and is treated as a traitor to his heritage while Charlie does absolutely nothing productive and ends up being the hero of the book. A great deal of the book focuses on the oppression of Native American ways by the white man, and I'm afraid it failed to convince me. Sure, the book points out blatant discrimination against Native Americans, but it also points out many problems without a connection to race.  Billy succeeds because of his commitment to education - not because he's a white man.  Some of the subplots regarding sacred Indian lands and the threat to develop them also ended up being overplayed at times, and I failed to develop any sympathy for the Native American plight by reading this book.<br />In summary, if you are looking for a great story, read this book.  If you are interested in reading a thoughtful book about the death penalty, read this book.  If you are interested in new information regarding the struggle of Native Americans in the United States, try something else.  As a whole, I'll recommend it based on more positives than negatives.	2001-12-06
US	49586917	R3FLF9XR6KQJDE	014023828X	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain (Penguin Books with Reading Guides)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	A Very Thoughtful Book About A Complicated Issue	I happen to live in Southern California and am constantly reminded about the issue of undocumented or illegal immigration.  I love where I live and wouldn't move anywhere else.<br />In any case, the issue of illegal immigration in Southern California is a polarizing one.  On one side you have one group that doesn't seem to care one whit about borders and laws.  On the other side, you have people who might have a bit of a racist bent that want to ship out every Spanish speaking person regardless of their legal status.<br />The fact of the matter is that neither side has a monopoly on the truth. I believe that every major issue including this one and abortion and the death penalty have multiple shades of gray.  In this book, T.C. Boyle makes sure to avoid taking a specific position on undocumented immigration.  His characters can prove to be geinuses or bufoons and they can be on either side of the issue.  This is not a book that preaches at you with a hard-bitten opinion.  Instead, it's a book that makes you think and that's the beauty of it.<br />I've read all the other reviews on this site and sometimes have to laugh.  Perhaps if you live in Germany, this book loses some relevance.  And then there are those critics that want to critique Boyle's use of satire etc.  Then there are those who think he exaggerated some of the tragic circumstanes that befall the main characters (It's called humor!and in Southern California it's not all that far from reality)<br />Here is the bottom line. Immigration is a big issue no matter where you live in the United States. Boyle has written a thoughtful book that is sometimes funny, always thought-provoking and hard to put down due to vivid characters that come to life with sparkling dialogue.<br />Please read this book and allow yourself to think seriously about an increasingly important topic.	2001-12-01
US	49586917	R2F8K6P39NA343	0399146490	72041574	Smokeout	Books	1	1	4	N	N	Very Disappointing	Many commentators have often pointed out that the difference between fact and fiction, is that fictional stories have to eventually make sense.  Unfortunately, this book falls short in that category.<br />Yes there are some funny scenes and funny dialogue, but the story about sinister politicians and tobacco executives just falls apart at the end.  <br />Date has been compared to other political authors who can be humorous (Carl Hiassan) but it's a poor comparison. Hiassan is funny because he can slip in the unexpected.  Every once in awhile one of his characters acts out of type. Not so in this book, every tobacco executive is evil and every politician has a nefarious hidden agenda.<br />I am sympathetic to the anti-tobacco cause, but Date is so ham-fisted about the issue in this book.  Let's face it, people live their lives in various shades of gray and not black and white.  Some of our heroes have bad habits and secret lives and some of our villans can have a soft positive side.  The problem with this book and everything else I've read of Mr. Date is that you can tell who the good guys and the bad guys are only sentences after being introduced to them.	2001-11-09
US	49586917	R18WV2Z2ZSTPAU	0312186843	17928264	Show World: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Good Book by a Great Author	This is the first book I ever read of Barnhardt's.  I enjoyed the story and found the tale of Samantha to be very interesting.  Since I live in Southern California, the portions of the book centered on the entertainment industry hit home.  Unfortunately, at the end of the book, I wasn't all the satisfied with the story as a whole. It struck me as being very-well written but somewhat empty.<br />Given how sharp the writing was and especially the vividness of the characters, I decided to check out Barnhardt's other books.  Both Emma Who Saved My Life and Gospel are stunning achievements.  The only difference is that Gospel can be an overwhelming book given its length.  This book is easier to tackly and can serve as an introduction to Barnhardt.  Then again, you can be adventurous and proceed directly to his more substantive work.	2001-08-20
US	49586917	R1OHAMZUWI7K0D	0312869703	915781970	The Master Executioner	Books	4	4	5	N	N	A Good Book to Read Regarding the Death Penalty	Loren Estleman is known as an excellent storyteller.  In fact, even Elmore Leonard has praised him for the way he can craft a tale. The interesting thing about this book is that he manages to examine and address one of the more pressing social issues of our time.  This story about a hangman, takes a long look at the death penalty. Thankfully, it's done in a subtle matter.  On its face, this is not a &quot;political&quot; book.  Instead, it's an interesting read that will make you think long and hard about the death penalty when you finish the book at the end.<br />I downgraded the book to 4 stars because the chronological flow of the story was sometimes confusing, but overall, this book is worth the investment and would be a great book for discussion in a book club.	2001-07-16
US	49586917	RPEVPHG9J9KFY	0393048543	60371707	A Trick of Nature: A Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	This Book Will Scare You	No this is not a horror novel similar to something written by Steven King, but it scared me to death. Life can be wonderful and you can have everything going for you, but it can all be derailed with the most simplest of circumstances. If you don't believe me, read this book!<br />Ms. Matson has crafted a compelling story that should be read by anyone who might be a tad complacent in their work or family life. The story will grip you because it isn't over the top. It isn't far fetched. In telling that story, she also examines the importance of relationships and families in a way that is important and profound.<br />While it will make you uncomfortable at times, it's supposed to that. I strongly recommend this book to anyone.	2000-10-09
