US	49585811	R3IC6EKNE1S7UC	0441011357	57166220	Monument	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Good Old Fashioned Story---with a twist!!	Ian Graham's debut novel is a simple, yet wonderful story, told with a twist that makes the otherwise old-fashioned story just come alive in a new way.  You see, the \\"hero\\" of this novel is the most disgusting, loathsome, most unredeeming human being ever to be created in the pages of a fantasy novel.  The guy, whose name is Ballas, makes Thomas Covenant seem like Frodo Baggins!!  You can't help but hate this selfish, disgusting individual as he worms his through the book, betraying and selfishly destroying all those who come across his path. As I said, the story is not the least bit original.  It involves Ballas and his search to find a fabled land in order to escape the forces of tyranny and oppression when he's wrongfully accused of a crime.  I know, you've read it before.  Many times.  However, this time, you're actually rooting for the bad guys, because no matter how evil they get, they're still not as horrific as the \\"hero\\".    <br />     In most such stories, you simply wait for the disgusting protagonist to have a revelation and suddenly see the error of his ways, converting to the side of all that's good and righteous.  Not Ballas.  Time after time, Graham sets you up thinking that THIS TIME, Ballas will do the right thing.  THIS TIME Ballas will not act the coward. THIS TIME, he'll show nobility and honor.  Sorry.  I won't ruin the ending, but the beauty of the novel is in the waiting. <br />     The book hooks on the first page and it's hard to put down after that.  I enjoyed every page and will gladly read another Graham novel as soon as it appears.  In some respects, I compare his writing style to Robin Hobb, so that's about as high a compliment as I can pay anyone.  If you think you'll like reading an old story told in a new and refreshing way, this is the book for you.	2005-03-02
US	49585811	R2Z8I11F5LIY2K	0765307359	158972074	Gridlinked (Ian Cormac, Book 1)	Books	3	98	112	N	N	Fun and Gun, interesting first effort	Neil Asher's first novel, \\"Gridlinked\\", is an attempt to put the James Bond genre into outer space.  It doesn't wholly succeed, for most part due to the fact that the main character, Earth Security Agent Ian Cormac, has no character.  Asher gives us a good reason why.  It seems that he has been \\"gridlinked\\" or connected into the Artificial Intelligence Internet, for way too long and is more computer then man.  For the first part of the novel, Cormac \\"unplugs\\" himself off this 'net, and has to deal with the consequences of finding his humanity and solving the galaxy's problems the old-fashioned way.   <br /> <br />    Now if Asher had kept this train of thought going throughout the novel, it would have been a whole lot better.  Unfortunately, he gets caught up in the dealings of his psychopathic bad guy and his maniacal robot, along with the sudden inclusion of two alien life forms, and Cormac's inner struggle just disappears.  After a bad day or two, Cormac seems to completely readapt to his lack of easily accessible information and the whole point of the novel just goes away and is never mentioned again.  The rest of the novel disintegrates into a typical \\"chase the bad guy\\" story, with the usual tricks and clever tactics, etc. etc.  I wish the novel had stayed the course as first promised.  It would have been interesting had Cormac's cyber withdrawal actually had some bearing on the plot, but it really never does.  In fact, very little that goes on in the novel actually effects the plot or the characters.  It is a shame, as this was an excellent idea for a story and not bad, all things considered. <br /> <br />     I wish Mr. Asher success in the future.  I will be sure to read his next novel, in paperback, when it comes out.	2005-01-23
US	49585811	R2WD2A2Z85UOD	1582344167	481973042	Jonathan Strange & Mr. Norrell	Books	5	13	17	N	N	Not your typical Best Seller!!	I know I speak for many readers when I say that the vast majority of novels written in either the Sci-Fi or Fantasy genres are rather formulaic, predictable, hastily written and contrived solely for the purpose of creating an endless stream of sequels.  None more so then the usually pathetic attempts at creating \\"alternate histories\\". I am happy to say that Ms. Susanna Clark has broken through this morass of dullness by creating this wonderful novel of an \\"alternate\\" universe where magic is real, but only practiced by two rather diverse Englishmen.   <br /> <br />   If you only want to read one novel this year, read this one.  The writing style just jumps off the page at you.  The characters are rich, detailed and have definite lives of their own.  The plot moves briskly through different scenarios and through the course of a decade with not one bump in the road.  The story is laced with a wonderfully sublime sense of humor and you get the feeling that the author wrote this for the pure enjoyment of the effort.  It certainly pays off to the reader.  The whole novel is just a PLEASURE to read and even though it's incredibly long at well over 700 pages, it leaves you wanting more.  Please don't let the length of this novel stop you, nor the inevitable comparisons to the works of Jane Austen, from which the author does borrow heavily.   <br /> <br />    This is evidently the author's first attempt at the novel and I can only hope she does not listen to the pleas of her publishers and attempt to create a \\"sequel\\", which would be both unnecessary and detract from the beauty of the novel.   Again, please read this book and don't be ashamed to say you enjoyed something on the Best Seller list.	2004-11-26
US	49585811	R1O9DDRE5TU61C	0399152326	488819459	The Runes of the Earth (Last Chronicles of Thomas Covenant)	Books	3	19	36	N	N	Money Book	I called this review, \\"Money Book\\", because the sole purpose of the novel is evidently to make money.  I read the \\"interview\\" with Donaldson posted here on Amazon in which he uncovincingly states that the reason he waited so long to write a \\"Final\\" Covenant series was due to his need to grow as a writer.  Now, I first read \\"Lord Foul's Bane\\" in 1978 and I still have my battered paperback copy.  I firmly believe that this epic is one of the finest fantasy series ever written.  However, I doubt anyone who has read \\"Lord Foul's Bane\\" could compare it with \\"Runes of the Earth\\" and tell me that Donaldson has improved as a writer.  It's obvious he has not. <br /> <br />    First of all, the same tired themes permeate this novel, hardly adding anything new or exciting.  The supporting characters are flat, dull and either retreads of previous characters or have no life of their own.  The character of Liand, for instance, plays practically no role whatsoever and he is in almost the entire novel.  He mostly just stands around and gazes at Linden.  As for the heroine, she alternates her personality to suit the needs of the author.  She was a much more interesting character 20 years ago when Donaldson finished writing \\"White Gold Wielder\\".   There is very little of that Linden Avery left on the pages of Runes of the Earth.   <br /> <br />      There are many tell-tale signs that this once fine author has lost touch with his muse and has written this book for the sake of profit alone.  He drags the story along with ridiculous plot contrivances (there's actually a completely meaningless time travel segment in this book, which made no sense); the characters have no personalities and most of all, the book \\"ends\\" with a silly \\"cliffhanger\\", designed solely to get you to buy the next book. That was never necessary in the previous novels and I find it very unbecoming and beneath the talents of one of my favorite authors. I almost wished the book stayed in the \\"real\\" world, where all of these books start out.  That part was actually more interesting than the transition to the Land and I was hoping that the characters of Roger Covenant and Linden Avery would transition between the two worlds where they would battle over Thomas Covenent's ring through a legal battle in our world and in a more magical struggle in the Land.  Of course, that would have required an improved writer to make that work. <br /> <br />     It is said that the new series will cover four books, and if that isn't another money grab, I don't what is.  Donaldson may have to change his name to \\"Jordan\\" before he finishes. I have read the first series at least ten times over the years and the second series more then a couple.  I loved these books as much as I've loved any fantasy series outside of Lord of the Rings.  To see Donaldson stoop to this pathetic effort makes me feel sick and I certainly hope he can recover his brillance for the future works.  However, I sadly doubt it.	2004-11-26
US	49585811	R2JFDB34SCNYW4	0553578510	2891951	The Grand Crusade	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Not so Grand nor much of a Design	This book should be a lesson to all authors.  If you try to do something clever while writing your trilogy, like killing off the most interesting character in the whole book, then you better replace this character with someone or something even MORE interesting.  Unfortunately, Michael Stackpole did nothing of the kind in the final installment of his DragonCrown series and the whole epic falls flat in the end. <br /> <br />This was very unfortunate, as I really did enjoy the first two books and the third one appeared to be a promising endeavor.  Stackpole, however, just went through the motions with this one.  Stackpole took a big chance killing off the lead character in the second book and while at the time I thought this was very clever and exciting, it took the whole heart and soul right out of the ensuing novel.  This book had nothing to make it the least bit original, interesting or exciting.  The final battle scenes were dull, the final confrontation with the ultimate ice queen, who for some unknown reason wishes to rule the whole world, were entirely predictable.  The other characters in the novel lost their edge about one-third of the way through and never got it back. Characters such as Kerrigan never fully developed.  The whole romance/relationship between Alexia and Crow was not only unbelievable, but repetitive and boring.  (Way too many little, \\"I love you!!\\", \\"No, I love you more!!\\" scenes which were very annoying and added nothing to the book.) <br /> <br />    I was very disappointed in this effort, which seemed to be thrown together in a rush to just get the job done.  I know this author can do better.  In all fairness to Stackpole, at least he ENDED his fantasy series.  Unlike a few authors out there I can mention.  That's the reason he gets three stars instead of two. I hope that his future novels fare better.	2004-10-09
US	49585811	R1LN88N9NYLRZJ	076534713X	477200685	Voyage of the Shadowmoon (Book One of The Moonworlds Saga)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Inside this book, beat the two hearts of a vampyre.	For those of you who have read McMullen's &quot;Great Winter Trilogy&quot; and agree with me that it was one of the best Sci-Fi novel sets to come out in the past decade, then don't be put off by the author's switch of genres and go ahead and read this delightful Fantasy novel.  McMullen is one of the few authors around who can make the switch from Sci-Fi to Fantasy and not miss a beat.  Those of you who read both genres know how few and far between such authors are and I applaud McMullen's bravery in coming out and showing the world that the &quot;Great Winter&quot; books were no fluke.  <br />      In many ways, McMullen has taken the themes of his previous trilogy and simply moved them to an alternate universe.  McMullen stresses the dangers of power and the effects that too much power has on both individuals, nations and the environment.  This particular novel is about a power hungry king who uncovers a weapon of awesome power, which very predictably, destroys an entire continent in one fell swoop.  A mysterious group of adventurers sets out to stop him.  <br />     McMullen's strength as a writer lies in his characters.  He does not take his characters too seriously, but gives them a life and charm all their own.  In fact, McMullen's characters are very unique.  You never find those that are pure good or pure evil.  They are humans with both human strengths and failings, sometime extraordinarily so.  For example, one of the main characters is a vampyre that only preys on criminals and wife beaters and other people he feels need culling from society.  Other characters abound through this novel and all of them are interesting.  <br />     One really great thing about this book is that it actually ends.  It's not a &quot;Trilogy&quot; in the &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot; sense, it actually has a real ending, so you don't have to worry about when the &quot;next&quot; book will appear.   (Take a lesson, Robert Jordan, Terry Goodkind, et al.) I found the ending to beenjoyable and satisfying.  I recommend this book to anyone wishing to read a great, light-hearted book with a fun story and interesting characters.	2004-05-15
US	49585811	R3L1X2DPD7AYF2	0446527084	184357766	Fallen Dragon	Books	4	2	2	N	N	It sure takes that Dragon a long time to fall!!!	First, let me say that I thoroughly enjoyed this book.  In many respects, it was much better then the Night's Dawn Trilogy, which kind of put Hamilton on the Sci-Fi scene.  For one thing, this book has a much better ending then Night's Dawn and it doesn't try to do too much as that series did.  However, Hamilton's one fault as a writer is that he doesn't know when to stop.  The story of a 25th Century dreamer who is forced to become a low-level corporate enforcer in order to realize his dream of star travel is quite good and very imaginative.  I enjoyed Hamilton's vision of the future and found it quite plausible in many respects.  The book jacket has you believe that this is a story of three individuals, but in reality, it's the story of one and one only.  While other characters get their time in this lengthy novel, it's Lawrence Newton's story that forms the basis for the book and that's the one that Hamilton concentrates his themes and arguments on the direction our current society is taking.  (Yes, parts of this book are a little preachy, but it's well disguised!!)<br />      This book is too long and it starts very slow.  It takes a bit of effort to get through the first 100+ pages.  There are very lengthy flashbacks, which don't seem to have a point until you get to the end of the book.  Literally, the last chapter.  Hamilton's editor could have done us a favor and had him chop those flashbacks down a bit.  You get the point and the tricks early on and the details are not necessary to appreciate the author's argument.   Overall, however, be grateful that Hamilton is no Robert Jordan and he does end the book, with no sequel needed or requested!!  I do recommend this book.	2004-05-02
US	49585811	R2ISUSUYZAJYHB	0060577266	20998921	Over the Edge of the World: Magellan's Terrifying Circumnavigation of the Globe	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Not an Advertisement for a Cruise Line!!	When I was in Junior High School, my History teacher told us that Magellan took some ships from Spain, found the straits that now bear his name and then was eaten by cannibals in the Philippines.  That pretty much summed up my entire exposure to Magellan's journey until I read this fanatastic book.  Begreen tells the tale in such a way that would put my Junior High School teacher to shame and I would say that this should be required reading in high schools throughout America.  Not only does Bergreen write very well, but he puts the story of Magellan and his crew into the proper historical perspective by relaying what is going on in the world at the same time as this voyage.  The disputes and distrust between the Spanish and the Portuguese, the influence of the Chinese and Arabs on Southeast Asia, the effects of the Inquisition on the crew, are all brought out to the forefront of this story and this allows the reader to fully understand who Magellan was, why he and the crew did the things they did and why the entire mission almost failed.  <br />     At the same time, Bergreen totally immerses the reader into every detail of life at sea in the 16th Century.  I doubt anyone alive today could stand what those sailors had to survive, trapped aboard those leaking, rotting wooden ship, without proper food, healthcare, or even fresh water.  Anyone taking a Caribbean Cruise should read this book first to fully appreciate that life at sea is not one All-You-Can-Eat Buffet and shuffleboard.  Make sure your kids eat their fruits and vegetables, as scurvy is not a problem you want to have in your family!!!  <br />     I totally recommend this book.  It's a quick, enjoyable read that puts the reader right onto the deck of a 16th Century caravel for one of the most courageous and daring voyages ever undertaken by man.	2004-04-09
US	49585811	R32XQQX2NEOQ3I	0380820218	574423936	The Sundering: Dread Empire's Fall (Dread Empire's Fall Series)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	An honest hard SF book with a great story	Yet another great book from Walter Jon Williams, the most underrated SF author around.  This book is the second in the Praxis series and should not be read without having read &quot;Dread Empire's Fall&quot;.  The Sundering (not that I get the title) picks up right where the first one left off with our heroes gallantly trying to put down a rebellion that threatens the stability of a 10,000 year old empire.  The book starts off quick, stabilizes in the middle and finishes with a bang which leaves you wanting more.  The story is not over yet and while I have no idea how many more books WJW intends to write, one can only hope for about two more, in which he should be able to wrap up the story and get on with something else.  (I don't approve of endless novels).  There is also a wonderful sense of humor throughout this book, not the Terry Pratchett kind, but a subtle realistic humor that makes this book very unique and a wonderful read.<br />      WJW does a great job in showing just how hard it would be to stage a battle in space.  Fighting gravitational thrust, incredibly long distances, inadequate intelligence all make a much more realistic view of space warfare then what is usually seen in SF novels.  While other authors ignore facts of physics  or invent some magical contraption to negate the effects, Williams deals with them honestly and effectively.  This book is not only a great story, but it's not a cheat.  In other words, as Arthur C. Clarke and other great SF writers have shown, it is possible to tell a good story and stick to scientific fact.  While most other authors in this genre have conveniently forgotten how to do this in order to create boring &quot;space operas&quot;, WJW forges ahead in the path developed for him by the great masters of SF.  I only hope we see more of WJW soon and that he keeps writing great books like the Praxis series and &quot;Days of Atonement&quot;, which is one of the best time travel novels ever written.	2004-04-03
US	49585811	RD11KMKAOLT82	0553578537	869489956	When Dragons Rage (The DragonCrown War Cycle, Book 2)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Hardly any Raging Dragons, but still a good book	If you are looking for Raging Dragons, this isn't the book for you.  While dragons do make a cameo appearance at the end of the novel, they do not rage.  However, don't let that stop you from reading this wonderful book, the second in the series.  If you have not read, &quot;Fortress Draconis&quot;, please do so before reading this book or you'll be totally lost.  There is a &quot;prequel&quot; to this story call &quot;Dark, Glory War&quot;, which I have not read, and have not felt that I'm missing anything by not reading it.  Start with Fortress Draconis and move on from there.<br />     The author is clearly improving as a writer with this novel.  His story moves along at great pace and there's hardly a dull moment.  He is obviously not writing a Jordanesque series that will last for all time without coming to an end, so that is very good.  What would take Jordan four books to write, Stackpole takes care of in four chapters.  It's a fun read, goes by quick and is a perfect light read if you are interested in a good fantasy story full of swords, sorcery and those omnipresent bad &quot;orc&quot; like characters that are so easy to kill but seem to be endless in numbers!!  The bad guys are bad, the good guys are good, all the women are beautiful and the action doesn't stop.<br />      While I enjoyed the novel, I was a little annoyed at some frequently used plot contrivances, such as the &quot;Innocent, Ignorant, Beautiful Girl who Lives with the Bad People but Doesn't Know They Are Bad&quot;, as well as what will prove to be a trick ending designed to annoy some people.  There's also a rather awkward and unnecessary &quot;May-December&quot; romance, which does not make a whole lot of sense except that the girl may be looking for a father figure.  Outside of that, great book, enjoy it.	2004-03-27
US	49585811	R4H7Z95SU00K	0553801546	130881552	Fool's Fate (The Tawny Man, Book 3)	Books	4	10	13	N	N	I don't like happy endings	For anyone who hasn't read the Farseer Trilogy, which  Robin Hobb wrote back in the late 1990's, it's one of the best fantasy trilogies ever.  The best part of the series is the way it ends.  I don't want to ruin the ending for anyone who hasn't read the book, but the ending is more real, more natural then any the ending nearly any other fantasy novel ever, with the possible exception of &quot;Lord of the Rings&quot;.  It's neither happy, nor sad.  It's bittersweet, yet somewhat appropriate.  It was a great ending.<br />      Unfortunately the &quot;Tawny Man&quot; series, which continues the adventures of FitzChivalry Farseer, had a true fairy tale happy ending and it kind of soured me on what is otherwise a remarkable book in another remarkable series by Ms. Hobb.  Robin Hobb is by far the best fantasy writer today.   Her characters possess a realism that no author fantasy author can provide (yes, I am talking about you, Robert Jordan).  Even the most minor character leaps out of the page at you.  Her writing is crisp, beautiful and makes the book you read after it seem cheap and undesireable.  Why she doesn't get more credit is beyond me.  <br /> If this book was written by any other author, I would have given it five stars and never looked back.  However, I have come to expect more from Robin Hobb and outside of the middle third of this book, it just wasn't there.  Of course, it was well written.  Of course, the characters were as real and fragile as ever.  Yet, the book starts off slowly, basically just sort of continuing the slow ending of the previous novel, and it ends even slower.  The entire story basically takes place in the middle of the book, in which the plot and story lines basically come to an end.  What follows is about a 100 page denouement which gives a happy ending to Fitz' story, which just doesn't seem right.  <br />     Of course, it's the author's right to end her stories as he or she sees fit and if Ms. Hobb wanted to give Fitz a happy ending, then so be it.  However, I liked the bittersweet ending of the first Farseer Trilogy much better and was hoping for something similar.  Fitz was not a character that really seemed to know what to do with a happy ending to his life, so it seemed slightly out of character for the book to end this way.  <br />     Nevertheless, I do hope Robin Hobb keeps writing.  She should be awarded and commended for her body of work and I want to see her keep going forever!!!	2004-02-28
US	49585811	R1CMG6O34B5BQH	0743251334	491103802	Seeds of Terror: An Eyewitness Account of Al-Qaeda's Newest Center of Operations in Southeast Asia	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Don't Ignore this Book!	CNN Reporter Maria Ressa has written a wonderful first hand look at the links between Al Qaeda and the home grown Muslim Insurgency Movements in Southeast.  Anyone who is interested in this region or wishes to know more about terror networks should read this book.  In a rather short book (221 readable pages), Ressa provides a succinct and fact based treatise on the origin of fundamentalist terror networks in Southeast Asia and their links to Al Qaeda.  Anyone who doesn't think that such links exist, will most definitely change their minds after reading this book.<br />      While the book does not provide an in depth historical view, it does bring to light the development of these networks in the 1990's and how they were coopted by Al Qaeda.  To Ressa's credit, she does not write the book as if she were reporting from the front lines and the occasional references to her own experiences in the area only serve to reinforce her points.  Unfortunately, at the end of the book, Ressa does tend to get a little preachy and gets caught up in the anti-U.S. sentiment regarding the current war in Iraq.  While her points are well-taken and may be even proven correct eventually, they detract from the overall thesis she presents, which is that terror networks in Southeast Asia are the next battleground in the war on terror and one that will be much harder to displace then they were in Afghanistan or Somalia.  <br />    Most of all, Ressa, a Filipina-American, has been able to bridge the gap between these two cultures and enable all of us outside of this region to more fully appreciate its complexities and problems.  I would also recommend this book to anyone who will be traveling to this region.	2004-02-09
US	49585811	RJCSUSNV6L3JD	0765308835	495112953	The Peace War	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Not a mere &quot;Bobble&quot; of a book!	I think it's great that some of these &quot;older&quot; works are getting reprinted lately.  They are bringing a vitality back into Sci-Fi which is currently lacking.  As book stores seem to be filled with nothing more then Star Trek knock offs and bad fantasy novels (yes, this means you, Mr. Jordan), it's great to be able to come to Amazon and find an older book worth reading.  <br />     Vernor Vinge's &quot;The Peace War&quot; is such a book.  Although it was written over 20 years ago, it still comes across as fresh and vital (although you have to overlook the occassional reference to the &quot;Soviets&quot;).  Set in a futuristic, apocalyptic California, the story revolves around a guilty older scientist and a bright young genius who are attempting to stage a revolution against the benign dictatorship which has ruled the world for over fifty years.  (The government has this weapon called a &quot;bobble&quot; that has encapsulated all the old armies and weapons in a type of stasis field).  It's a great story, very interesting and in many respects, still totally believable.<br />      If there's a flaw in the book, it's that the author never really describes what the problems with the new Peace Authority are to begin with and why anyone should want to revolt.  There's also a sub-plot involving a crashed Air Force jet that seems to have been improperly edited into the book in the very beginning.  Just get past that and the story really takes off.  <br />      Again, I am happy to have read his book, even so long after it was published.  I was surprised that I did not read it when it was first published, which may only show that the problem currently affecting the sci-fi aisles in our book stores has been around longer then I want to admit.  Enjoy this one.	2004-01-22
US	49585811	RYB9CUJ3OTDF1	0316735655	960898638	Live From New York: An Uncensored History of Saturday Night Live, as Told By Its Stars, Writers and Guests	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Live from New York, and You're Not	The perfect book for anyone that has grown up watching one of the most successful television shows of all time.  It provides a a behind the scenes look at the creation and production of Saturday Night Live, through a oral history of the producers, writers and actors who have come and gone over the years.  The book has an interesting narrative style, which takes a bit of getting used to but totally makes sense when you think about the daunting task it must have been to compile all this information in the first place.  The book is not a critique of the show and generally lets the participants tell when they had it right and when they didn't.  It is wisely divided into time periods, which also makes sense when you think about it.  My only criticisms of the book is that it does not get into more critical detail of the show or how the writers and actors were treated and I also found the last chapter, a salute to Lorne Michaels, to be rather self-serving and unnecessary, as if it were a condition for writing the book in the first place.  <br />    Again, this is the perfect book for anyone who can remember watching the very first episode and who grew up staying up late every Saturday night just to watch this show.  A great job.	2004-01-18
US	49585811	R24KH29MTCNG9G	0765306298	407069479	New Spring: The Novel (Wheel of Time)	Books	1	83	136	N	N	Not just a useless prequel, a rerun of a useless prequel	So let's get this straight!!  The guy can't finish his own series.  The books just go on and on and never stop, then, when even his most hard core fans are standing on the cliff ready to pitch the ten book collection into the sea, Jordan comes out with a NEW book, which is nothing more then an extended short story that he ALREADY published???  Did I miss something here?  <br />    All those who think this is just a very feeble attempt to make a little cash please raise your hands!!  Thank you.  I did not buy this book.  I committed the Cardinal Sin of book reading and I read the first chapter in the book store.  That's when I realized it was something that I've already read.  That's when I realized that this author has totally lost it.  Shame on him and on the publishing company.  I hope Amazon doesn't get stuck with a million copies of this trash sitting in some warehouse in Toledo, Ohio, or Tar Valon, or wherever it is.  <br />     I look forward to the author admitting defeat and leaving the story untold!!  (I was in my 20's when I started reading this series when the first book came out.  I'm like, OLD NOW!!!)  I don't need a prequel.	2004-01-13
US	49585811	R2OH6D0NXYR59A	0380812886	362688168	The Beyond	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A beautiful story comes to a close	The Beyond is the third book detailing the heartbreaking story of Cley, the former Physiognomist from the mythical and fantastic world of &quot;The City&quot;.  Please do not read this story without having read the previous two:  The Physiognomy and Memoranda, if only for the fact that all three are wonderful stories, full of imagination and are unlike almost anything else you have ever read.  <br />     I can't tell you how much I enjoyed this book.  Cley's adventures through the Beyond are nicely juxtaposed with the parallel story of the Demon Misryx as he struggles to find his humanity and end his loneliness.  Ford has a fantastic imagination and a beautiful writing style which hooks the reader in from the beginning and just keeps dragging you along.  The books are almost impossible to put down and you totally lose yourself in this fantastic world.  <br />     Unlike most series you read now, I was sorry to see it end.  However, that is how it should be (are you listening, Mr. Jordan?).  The book ends, leaves you wanting more, yet wholly satisfied with what you have read.  Why this book has not achieved more praise is beyond me (if I may use that word).  The Fantasy genre needs more authors like Ford and Mieville and fewer Jordans and Goodkinds.  This is fantasy for the intelligent, imaginative reader looking for an original story without the neverending wait for a conclusion.  Keep up the good work, Mr. Ford.	2004-01-13
US	49585811	R2ZM6AZV006M6K	0765345129	203737362	Eyes of the Calculor (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hurray for Librarians!!	Another wonderful story in the Greatwinter Trilogy, but unfortunately, it's the last one.  McMullen is one of the freshest, most original authors to come along in a long time.  All three of these books were written for the intelligent Sci-Fi fan who was looking for something more then the usual space opera junk and war novels that seem to dominate the market right now.  Please don't read &quot;Eyes of the Calculor&quot; first, as it is the last book of a series that began with &quot;Souls in the Great Machine&quot; and continued with &quot;The Miocene Arrow&quot;.  These novels tell an original story of a futuristic earth in which machines are forbidden, librarians rule and death is a daily occurence.  However, such a simple sentence does not do justice to the fascinating and imaginative world that McMullen created, from the deserts of Australia, to the isolation of the Rocky Mountains, McMullen has created cultures and personalities that are wholly original.  Best of all, the tale does not take itself too seriously, and the author writes with a wonderful sense of humor which brings his characters alive in a way that only the best science fiction books can.<br />     If you are like me and have been longing to read an innovative work that brings you back to that time in your life when Science Fiction was new and exciting, then this is the series for you.  Why this series did not get more attention is only indicative of the sorry state that Science Fiction currently finds itself. I believe part of the problem stems from McMullen's Australian origins, but the real reason is that most book stores would rather carry yet another Star Trek Novel, or a Robert Jordan prequel then look for exciting, original material.  I look forward to reading other works by McMullen (also only found on Amazon, if I may plug this website) and hope that more authors like McMullen are inspired by his effort.  Keep up the good work.	2004-01-12
US	49585811	RY2I8CUQF38SS	0374528861	252597130	Pakistan: Deep Inside the World's Most Frightening State	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Wonderful Introduction based on experience	Much has been written about Pakistan since September 11th.  But as Ms. Weaver points out in her wonderful book about the only Islamic Republic in the world, much harm could have been avoided if only we were more aware of this country and its problems BEFORE the terrorist attacks.  Weaver's experiences as a journalist in this country form the basis and the strength of this book.  Having covered this country for two decades, she provides a depth of experience in tracing the recent social and political ills of this nation.  Her basic thesis is simple and seems chillingly accurate given current events.  She convincingly states the case that U.S. foreign policy set up the country for much of its woes by at first supporting Islamic violent jihad in Afghanistan in the 80's, then abandoning the country completely after the Soviets withdrew and the Cold War ended.  While it would be unfair not to assign some responsibility for their current predicament on the Pakistanis themselves, especially their failure to achieve economic growth and political stability, Ms. Weaver's writings on how the situation in Afghanistan destabilized Pakistan to the point where it is now practically as ungovernable as its neighbor is well taken.  <br />    Of course, other nations in the region can share the blame for this as well.  The chapters on rich Gulf Arab states and the conflict with India in Kashmir are particularly revealing to see how this country has been neglected by other muslim nations and neglected by the United Nations which has been horribly inept in dealing with Kashmir problem.  (One can make a convincing argument that Kashmir is the U.N's greatest failure, but that's for another book).  Also, the chapter on the Saudi Bird Hunting parties should be read by anyone with an interest in the Middle East.<br />      I heartily recommend this book for anyone traveling to Pakistan, and wishes to learn a bit about this country prior to their visit.  It's very well written and succinct.Overall an excellent read.	2003-12-29
US	49585811	R2SJED2X4AWEMC	0451459547	742364677	Deathstalker Legacy	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A Legacy paying too much homage to the past	While I really enjoyed the first five books of the original Deathstalker series, the latest installment seems to have been hurriedly put together for the sake of profit and does not hold together as well as its predecessors.  The original series was fun, light-hearted and never took itself too seriously.  It moved about briskly, quickly introducing new planets, perils and adventures for Owen Deathstalker and his band of rebels as they fought to overthrow the evil empire.  Deathstalker's Legacy, however, does not quite excite the way the first books did.  The book starts off slow, gets even slower and only picks up in the end.  The entire book takes place on one planet, the characters are dull and the plot is rather unbelievable, even by the standards of the previous novels.  There is also this ridiculous plot development in which the King's Best Friend falls in love with the Queen To Be.  This subplot has been done to death about, what, a million times?  It seriously detracted from the other subplots, which were not exactly original either.<br />     I was very disappointed.  I enjoyed the other series and I was eager to read on.  However, the author should have stopped there and not followed the &quot;Path of Jordan&quot; and keep writing for the sake of earning more cash.  Of course, much of the blame for this goes to the publishing firms and to we fools who continue to buy these novels.  However, I noticed that the next one in the series, Deathstalker's Return, will be out in hardback soon.  There is no reason to buy this book or any other in this series in hardback.  I hope the next one is better, but I doubt anyone cares, much less the author.	2003-12-29
US	49585811	R184AZTOMXH0NN	0553379194	541233613	Fortress Draconis (The DragonCrown War Cycle, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Good start	I thoroughly enjoyed this book and would encourage anyone looking for a nice light read to pick it up.  I disagree with the assessment that one must read \\"Dark Glory War\\" prior to this one.  I did not and understood the plot very well.  I did pick up Dark Glory War in the bookstore AFTER I read Fortress Draconis and in all honesty, it did not seem as interesting nor did it appear to be as well written.  I want to stress that Stackpole is not trying to imitate Tolkein or here with this story, although the usual Tolkein plot devices are there.  It is very action oriented and the characters are very predictable and seem to be very typical of the types of characters that pop up in these books.  There's the \\"Orphaned Thief who is really a Subject of Prophecy\\", a \\"Mysterious Long Lived, Wise, White Guy with a Beard\\" who provides guidance a la Gandalf, there's also the \\"Buxom, Sword-Wielding Babe\\" who fills out her breast plate, yet can hold her own.  Best of all, there's plenty of bad guys, to include  those wonderful types that seem to exist by the millions, even though they are extremely easy to kill.  Juar like Orcs.  The Prime Bad Guy is actually a Bad Girl, but her gender is more or less ignored by the book.  She has Nazgul like assistants who do all her duty work, one of whom talks in clever rhyme.  <br />    Like I said, not a bad read, lots of fun, one can hope this won't turn out to be another Wheel of Time series and last until we all die of old age.  Enjoy.	2003-12-11
US	49585811	R285S1T67AWB8T	0451453638	658733340	Shadows Fall	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Something Green This Way Comes	Shadow's Fall is one of those books that defines genre labeling, so it often gets overlooked by mainstream readers.  It's a neat little story, combining elements of a modern fantasy, which reminded me of a meeting between Bradbury's &quot;Something Wicked This Way Comes&quot;, and Baum's &quot;Oz&quot; stories.  The mythical universe of Shadow's Fall comes alive in this book and the reader experiences the best feeling that one could have when reading such a book:  you wish you could go there and visit the place for yourself.  Higher praise is simply not possible.  Green is better known for his fun, romping Deathstalker stories, but this one shows that the author can branch out and write a less traditional story (although in one of the Deathstalker books, there's a couple of chapters which reminded me of Shadow's Fall).  All in all, a good story and highly recommended.	2003-12-11
US	49585811	R2ATEWL9C0TM46	0446610577	952437072	Hidden Empire: The Saga of Seven Suns - Book #1	Books	2	5	7	N	N	No need for a sequel	I usually don't like to type bad reviews, but this book just plain didn't do it for me.  The plot itself, how a futuristic galactic society must deal with an overwhelming and incomprehensible threat, was a good one and caused me to buy the book in the first place.  I generally like Alien Invasion stories and from reading the cover, it seemed like this one had the makings of a great read.<br />    Boy, was I ever wrong.<br />    To sum it up, the book starts slow and goes nowhere fast.  The author seems to be writing a sci-fi version of Martin's &quot;Song of Ice and Fire&quot; series, but instead of introducing us to a few detailed characters at a time, he throws a whole slew of them at you, each one telling their story in 3-5 pages at a time.  Just as you start getting the feel for the character, the chapter ends and a new character comes into play.  Usually on a whole different planet and at a different time, so there's no consistency with the plot development.  Now, combine that with terrible writing, and an ever increasingly illogical plot and it just makes for a very mediocre read.  I have no intention of buying the sequel (IT'S IN HARDBACK!!!!! Like anyone would buy this in hardback??!!), so don't look for any further reviews on this series.  <br />    As soon as I forced myself to finish it, in the vain hope it would get better, I read Walter Jon Williams Dread Empire Fall: The Praxis, which is also the first book in a series and I breathed this HUGE sigh of relief.  It is such a pleasure to read a good book after finishing a bad one.  Sorry Mr. Anderson, I guess you should stick to copying Star Wars novels or whatever it was you were doing before writing Hidden Empire.	2003-12-10
US	49585811	R1J061BJFGFWIG	038082020X	600696241	Dread Empire's Fall : The Praxis	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Keep on writing, Walter Jon!!!	I've always liked Walter Jon Williams's novels.  A while ago he wrote a very underrated novel called, &quot;Days of Atonement&quot;, which still remains one of my favorite time travel books ever.  Prior to that he wrote some very good sci-fi novels, but recently has gotten away from that.  I am very happy to see him go back to his roots and write a hard core sci-fi series.  The Praxis is the first of a series that promises to be entertaining and rewarding.  I really enjoyed this book and can't wait for the next.  The characters were rich, believable and well placed within their culture and universe.  Williams does a great job of writing about a futuristic military where form takes place over substance.  The main character, Gareth Martinez is a wonderful personage and the best part of the book is watching him shake off his upbringing nad useless training as he figures out how to command a spaceship in an actual war.  How hard is it for an ancient and traditional service to actually fight a space battle when no one in the whole fleet has ever fought one before?  Well, read this book to find out.  I highly recommend this one for anyone looking for a good science fiction novel with a touch of humor so welcome as it is so lacking in many works nowadays.  I despise the term, &quot;Space Opera&quot; which is thrown around so frequently these days.  Read it for what it is and enjoy it.	2003-12-10
US	49585811	R1UCH59K5DQYQA	0345443020	981903971	Perdido Street Station (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Alas for the lack of a Sixth Star	I can barely write a review of this book, because nothing I write will do justice to this wonderfully crafted, fully enjoyable book.  It is not very often when one comes across a book that delights you to the very core of your being.  When I read this book, I was reminded of why I love to read fantasy/science fiction novels, although trying to put this book into a specific genre would be like classifying Moby Dick as \\"Fiction\\".  Mieville can write.  Even if you don't like books about other worlds and other peoples, you should read this book just for the writing, to simply enjoy the way the author makes a whole world come alive with his words, makes characters seem more real then the people you see around you each day and the way he makes emotions such as fear, love and hate just leap out of the page at you.  It's a great book.  <br />      I can only really compare it to Jeffrey Ford's Physiognomy series, as it has a similar style and flair.  But Mieville takes the ideals that Ford presented in his fine novels farther.  He keeps you guessing throughout the book and just when you think you have the plot figured out, he totally changes the novel about 1/3 of the way through, before wrapping it all up in the end.  I can't wait to read his next novel.  In fact, the only bad thing I can say about this book is that it makes the next book you read seem hollow and boring.  Not a bad criticism, I guess.  Read it.	2003-11-29
US	49585811	R3DUOFOCBQEDPX	0345442652	461045289	Wit'ch Star (The Banned and The Banished)	Books	4	22	24	N	N	IT ENDS!!!! YES, A FANTASY SERIES CAN ACTUALLY END!!!	I am very proud of James Clemens.  He wrote a nice Fantasy Series.  He wrote it well.  All the books were enjoyable and most importantly, IT ENDED!!!  Hey, Robert Jordan, Terry Goodkind, and the rest of you money grubbing hacks, TAKE A LESSON!!!  (Sorry, I just had to get that out).  I very much enjoyed this series.  It was full of great characters, lots of action, a simple, familiar, yet entertaining plot and when all is said and done, I was happy to have read the series and see it come to a satisfying conclusion.  There's nothing deep or conscience altering about these books.  But, if you are on a long trip or need a moment to relax and enjoy a good, lighthearted read, these books are for you.  Wit'ch Star completely wraps up the adventures of Elena and her friends in their work against those rather typical dark powers that seem to always crop up in these types of novels.  The book jacket seems to indicate that a new character named Harlequin Quail will have some pivotal role in the novel, but in reality, he doesn't.  The same characters that have kept the book going since the beginning are the real stars and the strength of the book relies on them, not on any new twists or turns.  I recommend these books and this series to anyone.  Especially those who like stories that have endings!!!	2003-11-29
US	49585811	R1LVWFUGRVFMRE	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A true Homeric Epic!!	Usually, when one reads the praise of other authors on the back jacket, you take it with a grain of salt.  On the back of Ilium, is a quote from Stephen King which reads, &quot;I am in awe of Dan Simmons.&quot;  After reading this book, so am I.  For once, the praise of another author is well-deserved and accurate.  I truly loved this book.  It's just as good. if not better, then Hyperion, which is one of my all time favorite Sci-Fi books and a true classic in the genre.  Finally, a science fiction book which takes into account the reader's intelligence, which puts together an interesting and original plot and hooks you from the first chapter.  I will say this about the book.  It does require a passing familiarity with the events of Homer's epic poem, the &quot;Iliad&quot; and it helps to know a little Shakespeare and Proust, as well.  However, just as he did for Keats in Hyperion, Simmons will make the reader long to explore the works of these great authors.  It is rare that you can find a book that pays homage to great authors of the past, yet clearly does not rely on that praise in order to tell a great story.<br />     If you want a plot description, read what's written above.  However, this will not do the book justice.  The book has three seemingly unrelated subplots, which merge into a single story, more or less, in the end.  To Simmons credit and skill as an author, the most &quot;human&quot; of his characters are two robots (for lack of a better word) that spend their time discussing the relative merits between Shakespeare and Proust, all the while displaying emotions and character traits that the other actual human characters in the novel must learn as they go along.  This subplot is the link between the other two, which makes the entire story flow right along to a very satisfying and exciting ending.<br />    There will evidently be a sequel, for which I eagerly await.  If it's half as good as this one, it'll still be quite a book.	2003-11-04
US	49585811	R2V0EFFDJP81R1	0812564758	173232144	The Centurion's Empire	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Roamin' Roman in the 21st Century	Getting books from Australia must be very hard, which explains how difficult it is to find Sean McMullen's works here in the States.  Centurion's Empire predates his Greatwinter Trilogy books and it appears that the author was still learning his craft while writing this novel.   The book starts slowly, which is normal in a time travel novel, but don't let the slow start get you down.  Once our Hero finally reaches the 21st Century, which is about page 150 or so, the book is non-stop action and becomes incredibly fast-paced.  I guarantee you'll like the book more after this point.  <br />    While I enjoyed the book, it is evident that this book was written in the mid-90's.  Like many books from that era, it overestimates the rise of computer and nano-technology to point where it becomes very unbelievable that the advances described in the book will be with us before 2030.  We have William Gibson to thank for this and it seems that McMullen tries to imitate that style and that maybe of Stephenson in Snow Crash, instead of exploring his own style, which is quite wonderful as anyone who has read and enjoyed his Greatwinter Trilogy can tell you.  However, I highly recommend this book and hope that this author continues to write and gets the recognition he deserves on this side of the Pacific.	2003-11-04
US	49585811	R1VW9PP7ZCVZMO	0380793229	25473859	The Isle of Battle (The Swans' War, Book 2)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Trilogy, Really?????.	This book is the second in the Swan's War Trilogy and should not be read without reading The One Kingdom first.   Like the first book, The Isle of Battle follows the exploits of people in the mythical &quot;Land Between the Mountains&quot; as they try their best to deal with the resurgence of three ancient sorcerors who have all risen from the beyond to wreck havoc and discord upon the land.  Or maybe not.  The beauty of the story is that you are never quite sure who to trust or what their hidden motives are.  The only sure thing is that the really, really bad sorceror (the others range from sort of good, to not so bad in some situations) is really, really bad and it is obvious that it will take the usual extreme effort of those involved to defeat him.  <br />    It's a pretty good book, full of adventure and a great deal of it takes place in an interesting enchanted swamp over which none of the characters have any control.  While the book does not have a &quot;cliffhanger&quot; ending, it does sort of just stop as if it were the end of a chapter.  I will look forward to reading the third one.  The author has a nice writing style and his characters are interesting and believable.  My only complaint is that toward the end of the book, the author threw in a subplot involving a fleeing noblemen which seemed unnecessary at the time and this story line was not brought to a proper conclusion in this book.  I am sure that it will resurface in the next, whenever it comes out.  Since the book is titled, &quot;Book Two of the Swan's War&quot;, I was not sure if this story was going to turn into some Jordanesque neverending story, but the inside cover refers to the series as a &quot;Trilogy&quot;, thereby giving me hope the story will actually end with the next book.  Why don't more Fantasy authors try this approach?	2003-09-06
US	49585811	R2WCJP9CH3ZCJC	055357342X	549456361	A Storm of Swords (A Song of Ice and Fire, Book 3)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Finally, the series gets somewhere!!	This was easily the best book of this series.  After forcing my way throught the second book, I was convinced that Martin was really Robert Jordan in disguise, but after reading the third installment of this slow to publish series I felt much better.  It appears that Martin is only getting ADVICE from Jordan, rather then actually being Jordan.  The plot moved along very well in this book, the new character viewpoints were interesting and made the book all the better and best of all, almost everyone named &quot;Stark&quot; gets killed off or at the very least, develops a personality.  In all seriousness, while there are many characters in this book, the only interesting ones are Tyrion, Jon Snow and Danaerys.  I hope the fourth book is just about them or at the very least, omits all references to women named Stark.  Unfortunately, in order to read the interesting, we also read the dull.  <br />    I expect that the fourth book may come out while I am still young enough to have the use of my eyes, but I won't count on it.  While I did enjoy the book, I will enjoy them all the more as soon as it becomes apparent that there is an end in sight.  While authors and publishers may think that they are getting their money's worth from hacks like Jordan, Goodkind and dare I include you in this category Mr Martin, these never ending long running series will only hurt the genre in the long run.  As editors are constantly forced to pore through endless and mindless tomes of repetitive fantasy text, the one or two authors with actual original ideas will most likely get left out in the cold.<br />    Read this book.  It's fun, but don't expect too much from the future.	2003-08-27
US	49585811	R28ELX0NYKIOV2	0886779995	613947698	In the Company of Others	Books	2	5	6	N	N	I Really, Really Tried	I admit that I WANTED to like this book.  I tried to like this book.  I kept reading this book even though I didn't like this book.  I kept hoping that somewhere, somehow, this book would click with me and just kept reading.  Well, my efforts were in vain.  I didn't like this book.  Not to be discouraged, I read two more Julie Czerneda books and didn't like them either.  She got her money's worth out of me, that's for sure.<br />     I think the main problems with her books is that her characters just don't have any character.  They are almost TOO REAL, which in order to make interesting in a SF novel, requires the talents of an exceptionally good author.  I think Ms. Czerneda borrows heavily from A.C. Clarke, which is good, but doesn't have what it takes to bring Clarke's writing style into the 21st Century.  The characters in this book are just plain dull, there is very little action to make up for it and the resolution at the end of the book doesn't really make a whole lot of sense.  Thanks anyway, Julie, I wish you luck, because I REALLY WANTED TO LIKE YOUR BOOKS!!!!	2003-08-26
US	49585811	R26AC54EFK013Z	0812589696	684152067	The Merchants of Souls	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Another Noble Barnes Effort	Another wonderful read by John Barnes.  His books are always enjoyable and fun to read and never take themselves too seriously. ... it was quite good and told an interesting story, although I will say the ending was a little too silly for me.  Don't read this book without first having read, \\"A Million Open Doors\\" and \\"Earth Made of Glass\\", in that order.  These books introduce us to the world of the 1000 Cultures and Giraut Leones, the first person protagonist of all the novels.  They are also enjoyable stories, set in a very believable futuristic world.<br />      Anyone who doubts Barnes \\"predictions\\" for Earth 900 years from now, just has to watch a kid play X Box or talk to those people who live in their role playing computer worlds.  Barnes just takes this desire of people to want to live in a fantasy world to its logical conclusions.  I enjoyed this book very much and can't wait for the next one in the series.	2003-08-26
US	49585811	R1AIS4EKVMFNND	0743471555	615518822	1633 (Ring of Fire)	Books	3	13	16	N	N	Thirty Years Bore	I must admit, almost guiltily, that I really enjoyed this book's predecessor, 1632, and looked forward to reading the sequel.  Alas, it seemed that Eric Flint found it necessary to write the novel with David Weber, which basically dragged both authors down into a long-winded mire of dialogue and politics.  Too bad.  The strength of the first book could be found in the simplicity of the plot:  what happens if you take a town of civilized rednecks from good old West Virginia and plop  them down in the middle of the 30 Years War?  It was a fun read, full of action, excitement and characters who seemed to act true to  form.<br />    That's all gone now.  The book is woefully lacking in any sort of action whatsoever, hard to believe in a book co-authored by Weber, but it's true.  The former Hillbillies have almost to a man turned into waxing philisophers who ponder the politics of their era using a language and sophistication they did not possess in the first book, nor one that they could have realistically picked up given their desparate situation.  I kept waiting for something to happen, but outside of a rousing sea battle at about page 200 nothing happened until a rather dull conclusion.  What's worse, is that two of the best characters from the first book, Alex and Julie MacKay, are almost completely written out of this one.<br />   There is way too much character development for a book of this genre and most of it is hard to believe (such as a discussion on the morality of Oliver Cromwell between a 20 something West Virginian and a former WVA football player) and there are way too many plot lines left unresolved.  This leaves us all pondering exactly how many years these two are planning on going.  Maybe Robert Jordan will co-author the next book with them and they can call it, &quot;January, 03, 1634&quot; or something like that.  <BR> <BR>     Mr. Flint, if you read this review, please write the next one by yourself and get back to the original point of the novel.Thank you.	2003-08-26
US	49585811	RFUI4ZJWSQJL2	0380792273	363051018	The One Kingdom (The Swans' War, Book 1)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Enjoyable, in	This is a very decent book, with a very decent plot, with very decent characters who do very decent things.  It's a NIIIICEEE Fantasy Novel (sorry, Romey).  While nothing in it will make you jump up and throw out your Robin Hobb books, if you are stuck on an airplane or something and need a nice, decent book, this one will do.  I bought the second novel and look forward to reading it.  My only fault is that the book needs a better bad guy.  I believe the evil sorceror/ghost/whatever he is will start to really rotten up in the second book, so that can only help.  <br />    If you want a description of the novel, read the back cover, it sums it up nicely and I didn't want to waste words on that here.  Again, while nothing about this is extremely original, it's a fun read and it doesn't look like it will get &quot;Jordanesque&quot; on us and last forever and ever and ever.....	2003-08-26
US	49585811	RE9TYYIPXR9W3	0812574729	245512363	Into the Darkness (World at War, Book 1)	Books	1	3	11	N	N	Wheel of Time meets WWII	I am sorry so many people liked this book.  I wanted to like it, but after reading about 200 pages of mindless ramblings, I just had to stop.  I think the book was a good idea, but the author tried to do toom much.  Also, since he has apparently written about 100 sequels, reading the books will most likely take longer then world war upon which it bases itself.  Maybe Harry Turledove is really Robert Jordan in Disguise.	2003-08-24
US	49585811	R3J509S2FATBPC	0765344556	31473389	The Miocene Arrow (Greatwinter Trilogy)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	About Time!!!	If you are like me, and have been looking for an exciting, original and interesting Sci-Fi series for quite some time now, then I whole heartedly encourage you to read this book and the others in this series as well.  If you are a fan of the various Star Wars books and other soft Sci-Fi, you best go back to scraping your pennies together so you can buy the next Harry Potter book or something as this book won't be up your alley.  <br />     The second book of the Great Winter Trilogy should not be read without reading the first, if only for the fact that you will have deprived yourself of some of the character development and the background for this novel.  I don't see how this book can stand on it's own.  Read, \\"Souls in the Great Machine\\" first and you'll enjoy this one all the better.  <br />    These books are original, interesting and have a way of hooking you into them.  It's been a long time since I've read a Sci Fi book that has been this much FUN to read.  Like other reviewers, I don't know why this book is not getting the attention it deserves.  Both books are certainly better then anything that has won the Hugo or Nebula in the past 10 years and I encourage anyone with a love of Science Fiction to read McMullen's work.  Don't let the fact that he's Australian stop you, which is the only conceivable reason that I can think of that has stopped this series from getting the praise it richly deserves.  Oh, that and the fact that most book stores only stock Star Wars and Star Trek knock offs and people who love those books probably wouldn't get McMullen.  Read and enjoy.	2003-06-24
US	49585811	R3IM1GWFHIQXIW	0765344572	930510576	Souls in the Great Machine	Books	5	12	15	N	N	One Hundred Years of Australian Solitude!!	It's about time someone in the Sci-Fi community wrote an original and interesting book.  This book was a fantastic read, very thought provoking with a great cast of characters.  The book is ambitious, and in the hands of a lesser author it might not have worked.  But McMullen, unlike many of his Australian counterparts, pulls of this work magnificently.  I can't wait to read the second book.  Looking at some of the negative reviews here, I imagine that this book is a Love It Or Hate It type novel, so don't feel bad if you didn't get it.  The novel is very reminiscent of books such as Destination Road, where the writing style and plot conveyances are not proscribed in a traditional fashion.  If I had to compare McMullen's writing style, I would say it most like Gabriel Garcia-Marquez and book has a real, &quot;One Hundred Years of Solitude&quot; feel about it.  If you like a good book and are willing to try something a bit different, this book is for you.	2003-06-09
US	49585811	R3L00NDPH7FNDY	081257639X	145563216	Faith of the Fallen (Sword of Truth, Book 6)	Books	1	2	5	N	N	Pointless Waste of Words	After thoroughly enjoying the  first few books of this series, I have been steadily disappointed as time has worn on.  I debated whether or not to even buy this one, and unfortunately curiousity got the better of me.  I read the first 200 pages, put the book down and have no desire to pick it up again.  It's awful.  The characters are predictable and annoying.  The grace and wit of the writer is long gone.  Too bad.  Another good Fantasy series sunk by greed and burn out.  That's it for me.  I'll stick to reading Robin Hobb.  At least she knows how to END a book.	2001-11-26
US	49585811	R3KICMT27JCGMH	0441007872	332040900	Forever Free	Books	4	4	7	N	N	As good as sequels get	First:  There should be more SF authors like Haldeman.  The man can tell a story succinctly and with feeling.  In a few short pages he can challenge your intellect and your heart.  Forever Free is a wonderful story and I can't understand why so many people didn't like it.<br />Second:  This is not a conventional sequel.  If Haldeman wrote Forever War as a challenge to Heinlein's Starship Troopers, then Forever Free is simply a response to REH's Job:  A Comedy of Justice.  To say more would give away the ending.  Beware, the cover summary of this book is slightly inaccurate and does not due the book justice.  Maybe that's why so many shortsighted people were disappointed.  <br />I wholeheartedly reccommend this book.  It's a great story, full of all of the material which got most of us hooked on SF to begin with.  It was refreshing to read such a book again.  I didn't think anyone could tell a good story anymore in under 300 pages.  Of course, most of the stories nowadays are well over 3000 pages and are not very good.  Just look at this websites &quot;Best Seller&quot; list.  <br />Keep writing, Joe.	2000-12-17
US	49585811	R3ACPUY8PCGDIY	0380792974	989597595	Ancients of Days: The Second Book of Confluence (Confluence Trilogy)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Imaginative, but not too interesting	I've read both books in this series and I'm not totally sold on all the  hype.  These books are OK, but not great.  The premise is interesting and  imaginative, but did hold my attention.  I think the main problem is the  author's confusing writing style.  His main character is a stereotyped  version of every other &quot;young hero with extraordinary powers, making  his way through a dangerous world pursued by evil/politically motivated  government/authoritative officials&quot;, that we've seen countless times  in modern SF.  His supporting characters are weak and uninteresting.  I  like the initial book's premise in which the goo and the bad sides weren't  so clear cut and the reader is still not sure if the hero is following the  right path.  With a little more attention to detail in the writing, this  series might pan out in the end.	2000-08-29
US	49585811	R1DK4SUZ6EFRZ9	0684859785	92435896	The DREAMS OUR STUFF IS MADE OF: How Science Fiction Conquered the World	Books	4	12	15	N	N	From Poe to Heinlein and Not Much In Between!	I applaud Mr. Disch's willingness to take on this topic.  Very few people have looked at Sci-Fi as a serious literary endeavor.  To that end, he wrote a fascinating and thoroughly interesting account of the origins of  the Science Fiction and the effect it has had on our society.  My biggest  complaint about the work is that it should have been longer.  Disch  stresses a few authors in his work, but leaves out a great deal of  territory that could have made this an even better read.  I enjoyed reading  about Poe and found that Disch has a compelling argument for annointing him  as the first SF writer.  However, I felt the author spent too much time on  areas that I feel are  totally unrelated to SF work, such as alien  abduction and religious cults.  I disagree with the premise that the  Heaven's Gate cult is an off-shoot of American SF.  I did not think that  this part of the book fit in with the theme.  <br />   Disch correctly points  out in his introduction that he will leave out many authors and works that  will anger or disappoint their fans.  It is important to remember that this  book is not a literary review or critique of the assembled works of SF, but  an attempt to fit the genre into the broader scope of literary endeavor.   That being said, I do think that Herbert's &quot;Dune&quot; should be  remembered more than just for the distinction of having been made into a  bad movie.  And while I truly love Heinlein, and I did get a kick out of  the author's apparent love/hate relationship with both Heinlein and his  political views, the book at times seemed more of an analysis of Heinlein  than of the SF genre as a whole.  I really don't think that too many people  changed their entire world view after reading &quot;Farnham's  Freehold&quot;.  <br />     Overall, this book should be highly recommended to  anyone researching some of the authors of the 50's and 60's as they make up  the bulk of Disch's work.  As stated above, it is not a review of your  favorite author.  In fact, if your favorite author is Ursula LeGuin, please  don't buy it.  However, if you enjoy seeing a certain female SF writer get  nailed in the teeth for a little hypocrisy, you'll enjoy at least one  chapter.	2000-07-17
