US	49585864	R1RRY0T3DSNJ02	0345464818	932499618	The Madman's Tale: A Novel (Katzenbach, John)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Amazing tale of madness and murder	This was my first Katzenbach novel too, but unlike other reviewers, I found The Madman's Tale to be engrossing and thrilling.  I had no expectations of what the book should be based on the author's past work and reviewed it only on its own merits.<br /><br />Told mostly from the perspective of Francis C-Bird Petrel, a former inmate of a nasty mental hospital, the book tells the story of a series of murders.  C-Bird is schizophrenic and mostly living a normal, if solitary, life.  Drawn back to the hospital more than 20 years after being imprisoned there, he's suddenly compelled to write down the story of the murders and the fantastic investigation he and a fellow inmate participate in.  In the process, he falls back into madness and memories with the past (and some ghosts) coming back to help and taunt him.<br /><br />The details of schizophrenia are amazing and I can only assume the author had some expert advice on writing it.  It all rings absolutely true, from the wry observations on side effects to the moments of utter lucidity C-Bird finds.  As chilling as it is to think of, there really were places like the fictitional Western State Hospital where you could end up more insane when you left than when you went in.<br /><br />I found the writing easy to follow, the jumps back and forth in time clearly marked.  From the moment the reader meets Peter the Fireman, you know why he's in the hospital, why he doesn't belong and what part he'll play in Francis' life.  Lucy the prosecutor was just about the only one-dimensional character in the book; I found her annoyingly strident and the bit about her own assailant linking with the current case was ridiculous.<br /><br />That said, I was completely fooled about who the killer was until the end.  I actually was convinced it was one of the main characters and fell into the same trap Peter and Lucy did, of not listening to C-Bird's observations.  The Hallmark-card ending was also a little weird, and while touching, it dropped the credibility of the book overall, as did C-Bird's ability to keep his voices even while we assume he was heavily medicated at the hospital.  The vast majority of this book takes place in someone's head, so don't read it expecting lots of action or much detail about the murders themselves.<br /><br />Overall, this was a very good book and easy to read.  I found it was one of the few books I could read a chapter or two of, put down and pick up again the next day without losing interest and having to reread the previous few pages to refresh myself.  C-Bird was an interesting and unusual choice to make the hero; Peter would have been a more obvious selection but I think in the end, it would have been a less satisfying story.overall, as did C-Bird's ability to keep his voices even while we assume he was heavily medicated at the hospital.  The vast majority of this book takes place in someone's head, so don't read it expecting lots of action or much detail about the murders themselves.    Overall, this was a very good book and easy to read.  I found it was one of the few books I could read a chapter or two of, put down and pick up again the next day without losing interest and having to reread the previous few pages to refresh myself.  C-Bird was an interesting and unusual choice to make the hero; Peter would have been a more obvious selection but I think in the end, it would have been a less satisfying story.	2004-10-26
US	49585864	RO97B6FTI0LY4	0425196844	300331712	Jane's Warlord (Berkley Sensation)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Better than I expected; sexy fantasy delivers	I picked up Jane's Warlord out of boredom, thinking it would be at best, an okay way to spend a couple of hours.  I was happily surprised to find this was a really excellent book.<br /><br />Jane and Baran are both bigger than life as is the plot; this is fantasy, pure and simple, and not meant to be a treatise on time travel or future technology.  Jane is troubled by her past but strong, sassy and of course, gorgeous.  Baran is a trained assassin from the future, ruthless and sexy, determined to protect Jane no matter what.  Yep, they have sex pretty much instantly after meeting, but again, this is Fantasy, capital F.<br /><br />Knight keeps the pace fast, smart and steamy; there's lots of graphic sex but it always works within the context of the characters and is very explicit but never over the top gross.  The book is on the thin side, reading like a slightly long trade romance rather than a full-blown novel, but when I was done, I didn't feel the story lost any punch due to lack of page.<br /><br />All in all, this ended up being a perfect quickie book.  A gorgeous hero and heroine, a spunky smartmouthed sidekick and a terrific fairy-tale ending all added up to a fun, hot book that can stand up to multiple readings.  I was very, very impressed with Knight's writing skills and look forward to reading more of her work soon.	2004-10-14
US	49585864	R3OYEOMLO16R9E	0515138304	996286807	Truth or Dare	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Bland, bland, bland	Jayne Ann Krentz and all of her literary alter egos have always been hit or miss for me and this book was most definitely one of the misses.<br /><br />The beginning promises some dark paranormal thriller mixed with Krentz's generally heavy duty romance, but the book fails to deliver either.  Instead, it's a muddled mishmash of characters who never gel on the page; instead of focusing on heroine and hero Zoe and Ethan, the author distracts with supporting characters that I couldn't have cared less for.<br /><br />Zoe's supposed to have big angst from her time in a psychiatric institute and her ability to literally read the walls of a house.  Both could have been devices to ramp up the drama, but instead Krentz can't get a psychological grip on Zoe and winds up turning the character into a confused and lifeless cariacature.  Ethan gets the same short shrift: what could have been a deep, dark and sexy character is instead insecure and disrespectful and not all that sexy.<br /><br />The mystery is so convoluted that there's no way for a reader to be engaged in solving it.  The clues come and go, red herrings that don't make sense keep popping up and just when you think the story is moving along, bam - Krentz switches gears to one of the incredibly boring subplots involving the supporting characters.<br /><br />I hate it when authors push out books for the sake of having something on the shelves.  Truth or Dare feels like Ms. Krentz's editor wanted a contemporary paranormal book (and a sequel to an existing book) of a certain kind and rushed this into print even though the author herself didn't have a cogent storyline for it.  Every single aspect of it seems rushed and as if the author herself didn't care much how it came out; if she doesn't care, the reader won't either.	2004-10-05
US	49585864	R277LBZPCD6455	0425198243	55431338	Incubus Dreams (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	31	43	N	Y	Three books in one could have used focus	Incubus Dreams reads more like three books smashed together into one, which may be why it's getting such poor reviews from a lot of people.  It's length (a boggling 658 pages and 82 chapters) is unwieldy; combined with the pace, it makes me wonder if the author has seen an end to the series coming and is pushing the reader there in a hurry.<br /><br />This book isn't nearly as bad as I expected from the reviews.  It's true that there's a glut of rough sex, group sex and public sex, but if you can get past the descriptions and see it metaphorically, it's not as graphic as you'd think.  I found the book divides up into three main areas that would have worked pretty well on their own as standalone books: Anita recognizing her own monster and accepting it enough to drop most of her defenses and create actual relationships, the consummation of the original triumverate and creation of a second with unexpected powers manifesting themselves and a setup for a final showdown wrapped up in a stripper serial-killer case that's left hanging at the end.  All of this takes place in about three or four days; there's very little sleep taking place in this book.  Yes, there are major, major characters and plotlines from past books that are unresolved here - but this book covers such a short length of time and already involves so much and so many people, to add them in would have been unmanageable.  Asher, Belle Morte, Damien and Jason are all there and I'm sure will factor heavily in the next book based on the setup here.<br /><br />The typos, missing words and one rather disgusting conversation Anita has with Richard all detract from the quality of the storytelling and I'm hoping, the direction the author is pushing her readers.  I got the sense that this was a bridge book, one meant not to advance the storyline so much as to set us up for the final couple of stories left to be told.  Either Ms. Hamilton has abandoned Anita for her Merry Gentry series and this will all just fizzle out or she's brilliantly building up her characters for a monumental climax.  If you read the book carefully, you'll see that the stage is being set for a confrontation with Mother: the addition of warrior vamps, the increase in the triumverate/s and their power, Anita's new ability to raise the dead and the tease of the serial-killing head vamp on the loose with ties to Belle Morte.  I thought the sex had begun to get a lot out of hand, but it served to put all of the characters here in line to finish things up in a way that should satisfy loyal readers of the series as a whole.<br /><br />All in all, I don't think this deserves a five star rating, but it's better than a three.  In spite of the shoddy editing, Ms. Hamilton has a gift for graphic storytelling, action and dialogue (with the exception of Anita yelling at everyone to *f* her during sex).  Without coming out and spelling it specifically, you get the impression that all the characters are headed for a crossroad of their own: Anita is melancholy and a little bitter, Jean-Claude is unsure of himself and Richard is buried under his own (and Anita's) anger and self-loathing.  As if that weren't enough, Nathaniel discovers a dominant side, Damien becomes needier than expected, Jason turns out to be more mature than you'd think and Micah is deeper and more tormented than even Anita guesses.  There's a lot of emotional upheaval in this book and while I missed the longer hardcore police investigations from earlier books, it would have just been too much to add to this already busy story.<br /><br />Because of its length and dependency on the element of shock, it would be a hard book to read repeatedly, but it does feel like a necessary step to the conclusion that I desperately hope Ms. Hamilton delivers.  I wouldn't recommend anyone not familiar with the series start with this book; the best way to enjoy all of Ms. Hamilton's books is to start from the beginning and read through in order.  For fans of the serieswho want to find out how it all ends, as long and tedious as it can be, I still think this is a book you'll need to read in order to follow the characters to the conclusion.ends, as long and tedious as it can be, I still think this is a book you'll need to read in order to follow the characters to the conclusion.	2004-10-05
US	49585864	R21MDCGMVN3MOB	0451459008	139111417	Silk	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very disturbing, odd book	I'm not really sure what to say about Silk.  I've never read Poppy Z. Brite, so I can't compare this to her books, but Silk (in the spider passages) is similar in gory tone to American Psycho and in creepy crawly goosebumps atmosphere to early Peter Straub.  It took me about a chapter to get used to the fragmented sentence structure, but eventually I didn't notice it and it didn't detract from the story.<br /><br />I wasn't sure if I felt sorry for Spyder or if she was a monster; at the end, I still have no idea what the connection was between Spyder, her father and the black widows, nor could I figure out if the spiders obeyed her or were fighting her.  There was quite a bit of muddiness at the end, where the sentence structure practically dissolved; I'm sure the author was using the frantic pace to add to the feeling of the story, but it got a little hard to follow.  The author went from following one character mostly (Daria) to following another (Niki) a little more abruptly than I thought the story called for.<br /><br />There are some gory scenes (I really didn't need all the pus references) but the best parts of the book are the details of the goth/drug/rave scenes (music, hair and clothing especially) and the dialogue.  Kiernan writes very vividly in a sort of oblique style and while the book in particular wasn't something I'd read all the time, it was definitely interesting in a disturbing, memorable way.	2004-09-28
US	49585864	R10WT1RCLO1LMQ	077832074X	904158631	The Presence (MIRA)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good book, but too many different styles	I enjoyed reading The Presence, but it did have some problems that might bother other readers who aren't already fans of Ms. Graham's.<br /><br />The story is a blend of historical romance, contemporary thriller, light humorous romance with a little ghost story tossed in too.  Each of the elements is okay and the author blended them all in an interesting way, but the book would have been better if the author has perhaps used one or two less of them and concentrated more on the others.  I was left with the impression that three short stories by different authors had been shuffled together.<br /><br />The paranormal part was perhaps the weakest to me.  The heroine is supposedly a very, very strong psychic and the opening chapter is pretty dark and violent.  It leads you to believe the rest of the book will be similar, and there are parts that are, but mostly, the seriousness of the opening isn't carried through.<br /><br />The main portion of the book is made up of the light, contemporary romance of the new Laird MacNiall and heroine Toni.  Of course, both are the spitting images of the old Laird and Annalise, setting up the ghost story.  The relationship between Toni and MacNiall is written well and is the best part of the book.  Their dialogue is funny and the romance is steamy.  MacNiall is a very old-fashioned hero most of the time and Toni is probably the epitome of a feisty American.<br /><br />The worst parts: the big serial killer murder mystery is a huge dud.  One victim isn't even a victim, the killer has the strangest motive, there are implausible red herrings and resolutions everywhere and the supporting characters are inconsistent (Gina, Ryan and Thayer, in particular).  The promise of a dark paranormal psychic story is unfulfilled for the most part; the heavy and atmospheric quality of the psychic storyline is diluted very heavily by the other areas.<br /><br />This was still a good book and was an easy read over the course of an afternoon.  I liked the lead characters a lot, but felt overall the author muddied up their story in the interest of producing a paranormal story similar to Kay Hooper's writing.  This appears to be the beginning of a series, also very much like Hooper's, with an older man heading up a group of psychic detectives.I liked the lead characters a lot, but felt overall the author muddied up their story in the interest of producing a paranormal story similar to Kay Hooper's writing.  This appears to be the beginning of a series, also very much like Hooper's, with an older man heading up a group of psychic detectives.	2004-09-27
US	49585864	RZLMGJBBPMS4U	0399151273	890960277	Retribution	Books	5	6	6	N	Y	Easily one of the best thrillers I've read this year	Retribution, the first novel by Miami prosecutor Jilliane Hoffman, promises in its jacket to be one of the most thrilling commercial fiction debuts in years, and for once, I agree completely.<br /><br />The book tells the story of a lead prosecutor in a grisly murder case in which the suspect just happens to be the man who raped her 12 years earlier.  Chloe has changed her name, her looks, her address and her life; suddenly, all of it comes down around her as she struggles to balance ethics with her need for vengeance and justice.  Mixed in is a believable romance with a handsome cop working the case and enough details about the criminal justice system to reassure you that the author knows her stuff.<br /><br />This is an absolutely haunting book; the descriptions of Chloe's rape, the murders of the young women in Miami and C.J.'s eventual mental disintegration are written intensely, precisely and with an ear for believability.  The dialogue is crisp and never awkward and the plot moves along at a very fast pace for the book's entire 420 pages.  The multi-chapter account of Chloe's rape literally gave me the creeps.<br /><br />In Retribution, the lines of justice are blurred; these characters don't necessarily follow the rules of the court and anyone expecting a black and white legal thriller will be disappointed.  It is, however, a deeply emotional story, one where the characters are so vividly drawn that you can understand why they do what they do and maybe even cheer them on.  There's an element of vigilantism here, but it works well within the storyline.<br /><br />I recommend this book very highly if you enjoy the early Patricia Cornwell Scarpetta books, Lisa Gardner's legal series and New York sex crimes prosecutor Linda Fairstein's novels.	2004-09-20
US	49585864	RUZFML0LKNC9R	0451411528	445424368	You Slay Me (Aisling Grey, Guardian, Book 1)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Funny and hot (and I'm not just talking dragon breath)	You Slay Me is a hilariously funny cross between a sizzling little Silhouette novel and a (lighter) Laurell K. Hamilton Merry Gentry.<br /><br />Heroine Aisling (pronounced Ash-lin) is a Guardian, which means she's supposed to be able to call up demons, open and guard portals and do all kinds of other witchy type things.  The problem is, no one's told Aisling.  On a trip to Paris to deliver a ancient artifact, she stumbles into a murder scene and a seriously strange underworld society of dragons, Wiccans, demons and other assorted magical creatures.  Not only does Aisling lose the artifact, it's stolen by a wyvern, who just happens to be her dragon-mate.<br /><br />Obviously the start of a series, You Slay Me deftly wraps a whodunnit into a paranormal package.  A fair bit of the book is spent explaining who and what various people are, what Aisling's powers are supposed to be and descriptions of how she learns to use them.  Those passages are woven seamlessly into the story though, and never seem to be obvious or boring.<br /><br />The dialogue is very funny, especially Aisling's conversations with her French taxi driver, who teaches her some hilarious French phrases to use when people bother her.  Macalister injects humor throughout the story, with a clothing store named after a rotten apple, a hotel called the headless woman and more.  Aisling is what you'd expect: smart, resourceful, brave and beautiful.  Her dragon Drake is sexy, powerful and mysterious and Macalister does a great job at firing up the sparks between these two.  The handful of sex scenes are steamy without being grossly graphic.<br /><br />This is a very funny book, a lot like the Undead and.. series by Mary Janice Davdison in both characters and tone.  I am looking forward to the sequel due to come out next spring; this book resolves the murder mystery but leaves enough open to have me eager for more of the story.	2004-09-15
US	49585864	RM3KBAOCL8NTU	0743244850	264539370	Are You There Alone?: The Unspeakable Crime of Andrea Yates	Books	4	7	10	N	Y	Troubling look at Yates case	An intimate portrait of the disintegration of Andrea Yates leading up to the murder of her five children, if I had one complaint about this book it would be that it fails to take a long, hard and critical look at Rusty Yates.<br /><br />Eloquently portraying Andrea's long history of mental illness, O'Malley gives the reader a tightly-written accounting of Andrea's continual mis-diagnoses and the disturbing tendency of her family to turn a blind eye to her obvious distress.  Adding to the pressures of a diffident and immature spouse were religious fanatics who I sincerely hope are suffering some consequences for the things they said, saw and encouraged Andrea to do.<br /><br />O'Malley obviously came to know the Yates family fairly well, Rusty in particular.  While she does talk about some of his shortcomings, she loses her objectivity and fails to hold him as accountable as she does many of the other people involved, including Andrea's doctors and a medical system that was not equipped to manage her mental health care properly.  Rusty is portrayed as a sort of bumbling victim himself, always trying to do the right thing but always falling short in an innocent way.  A very large part of the book is dedicated to telling Andrea's story and describing what was happening around her at various stress points in her life, but in essentially choosing Rusty's side and perspective, O'Malley fails to capture any real emotional sense of Andrea's illness and its effect on her.<br /><br />This isn't a lurid account of the crime itself, but more of a study of most of the people, behaviors and systemic failures that contributed to Andrea Yates' eventual collapse and the murder of her children.  It's not an easy book to read, more because of its content than any problems with the writing itself.  I encourage anyone seeking a rounder picture of the Yates' marriage to read this; the general media has never done such an in-depth look at all of the contributing factors.<br /><br />Sadly for Andrea, the moderately hopeful note the book ends on, with her correct diagnosis and medication, has apparently not continued.  As of a couple of weeks before this review was written, Rusty had filed for divorce and Andrea was hospitalized because she had stopped eating in prison, her mental illness reportedly uncontrolled again./>Sadly for Andrea, the moderately hopeful note the book ends on, with her correct diagnosis and medication, has apparently not continued.  As of a couple of weeks before this review was written, Rusty had filed for divorce and Andrea was hospitalized because she had stopped eating in prison, her mental illness reportedly uncontrolled again.	2004-09-13
US	49585864	R3BTFJDTXBTWVN	0316286567	382067351	Dracula, Prince of Many Faces: His Life and His Times	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Excellent overview of Romanian history during Tepes reign	More a study of the region than of the prince who inspired the Dracula tales, this book offers a rich picture of the circumstances of Vlad Dracul's era.<br /><br />Thick in geographical data, this book only falls short if you're looking for a book that focuses on Vlad Dracul himself.  This is more of a study of the people and circumstances that spawned him than a deep look at the man himself.  While battles are detailed, this is not an account full of gory details or one that gives much emotional impact.  Even while describing the Prince's work ethic, religious beliefs and family history, you don't get much of a feeling for Vlad the man, who he cared for, why he hated the people he did and why he was rumored to be so bloodthirsty.<br /><br />This is a superb look at roughly 50 years of Romanian history in the mid to late 1400s, but there are better books out there if you're looking for a more graphic and personal view of Vlad the Impaler.	2004-09-13
US	49585864	R2A7JM42EB05T6	0060519134	490902723	Savannah Blues: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Enjoyable summer reading fling	Somewhere between airy chick lit, Janet Evanovich and Elizabeth Lowell, Savannah Blues is an easy read, perfect for the end of summer.<br /><br />The characters are deliciously drawn here; I could easily see myself befriending Weezie or Bebe or even human tornado Merijoy.  The love interest Daniel is not just gorgeous, he's also funny and sweet; the dirtbag ex-husband Tal is not just a piece of scum, he's also pathetic and whiny.  Andrews  has obvious fun with some of the names of her characters (twins Ross and Rachel, Tripp, Flip and Phipps), but their personalities are so earnestly described that you can almost imagine Savannah filled with such people in real life.<br /><br />The loving attention to details of antiques is worked so seamlessly into the narrative that you don't realize you've learned some oddball tidbit about glassware or furniture until you've finished the book.  Andrews also shows how much she enjoys the local cuisine, with descriptions of food and recipes that will make your mouth water - Daniel's seafood bisque in particular.  The writing is superb, the plot moves pretty quickly, the dialogue is smart and funny and the characters are interesting and compelling.  The romance is sweet and believable, moving along at a good pace with a nice backstory.<br /><br />I'd have liked to give this book a 4.5 - the only thing holding it back from a 5 star rating is the utter implausibility of the police investigation into the murder (or non-investigation).  While I don't expect total reality in my fiction reading, it struck me as strange that the author would choose to make the police so utterly uninterested in solving any of the crimes that were uncovered.  It's a minor quibble, just one thing that nagged me long after I'd finished reading.	2004-09-13
US	49585864	R250KW2KFBQ5NZ	0553574566	872257758	A Monstrous Regiment of Women	Books	5	88	92	N	Y	British mystery done properly	Second in terms of release date but third in terms of the timeline (O Jerusalem should actually be read second, its story taking place right before the end of The Beekeeper's Apprentice when Mary is 19), A Monstrous Regiment of Women finds the brilliant Mary Russell approaching her 21st birthday, questioning the nature of her relationship with Sherlock Holmes.<br /><br />In an effort to distance herself from him a bit, Mary renews an Oxford friendship and finds herself drawn to the charismatic leader of a feminist church/society movement, intellectually and spiritually.  A series of deaths attached to the society sends Mary and by proxy, Holmes himself into the investigation.<br /><br />As with the first book (and the following books), Regiment is primarily about Mary.  Finally at an age where she inherits her parents vast estate, she struggles with her newfound freedom, the burden of responsibility and starts to look at parts of herself and Holmes that she'd been able to avoid when she was a girl.  Mary is exposed to the seamiest sides of London as she tries to balance depending on Holmes with wanting to do things her own way.<br /><br />A lot has been made of the romance between Mary and Holmes - something the author could have avoided entirely if she'd have just not mentioned Mary's age.  She's written as far, far older than her calendar years; it also wasn't that uncommon around the turn of the century to find a young woman married off to a much older man.  I'm not a Sherlock Holmes purist, which enables more suspension of logic, but the romance is still sparingly written and is actually kind of sweet.  If anything, a reader looking for passionate clinches and sex is not going to find it in these books; even compared to the tamest of today's romance novels, the scenes here are the mildest of mild.<br /><br />The mystery itself is well-written and paced, with the exception of the middle section about the society which are a little dull.  The clues, confrontations and eventual solving are interesting, the extra little details about London in the early 20's is fun to read.  There's a long passage towards the ending where Mary falls into the hands of some criminals that I thought was particularly well done; it goes a long way towards the aging of Mary and towards her understanding of Holmes.<br /><br />This was a really enjoyable and fast book to read.  I recommend it for anyone who likes authors as diverse as Agatha Christie, Patricia Cornwell, Elizabeth Peters, J.D. Robb and P.D. James.  A Holmes purist would probably have some issues with Mary, but if you like the idea of a tough, intelligent and capable feminist solving crimes, then you'll enjoy these books.ntations and eventual solving are interesting, the extra little details about London in the early 20's is fun to read.  There's a long passage towards the ending where Mary falls into the hands of some criminals that I thought was particularly well done; it goes a long way towards the aging of Mary and towards her understanding of Holmes. <br /> <br />This was a really enjoyable and fast book to read.  I recommend it for anyone who likes authors as diverse as Agatha Christie, Patricia Cornwell, Elizabeth Peters, J.D. Robb and P.D. James.  A Holmes purist would probably have some issues with Mary, but if you like the idea of a tough, intelligent and capable feminist solving crimes, then you'll enjoy these books.	2004-09-11
US	49585864	R2465NNMDQ6TFA	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	4	124	147	N	N	Almost as good as the first several Scarpetta books	Make no mistake - this is not the great writing and plotlines of the early Scarpetta books, but it's also not as bad and maudlin as the last two have been.  Cornwell seems to at least be making an effort to push Kay Scarpetta back to where she came from and it mostly works in this newest book.<br /><br />Like the last few books, there's far less Scarpetta than in the early series.  The book is fairly evenly divided up into quarters between Lucy/Rudy, Marino, the bad guy and Scarpetta.  Benton makes a handful of brief appearances, although his character continues to loom larger than the few words written about him would lead you to think.<br /><br />Written in a slightly stilted third-person style with too many short and choppy sentences, Trace tells a convoluted story about the connections between a young teenager's death, an attempted assault and Scarpetta being summoned back to Richmond on a case that she (as usual) never gets the whole story about.  If you've read past Cornwell books, you know the perpetrator is a sick puppy, you know Scarpetta is hip deep in weird political games, you know Marino will get into trouble because of his bad attitude and you know Lucy will manage to make the whole case about her.  The more Cornwell explores the Lucy character, the more I dislike her and this entry in the series is no exception.  She continues to be written as a selfish, headstrong, self-obsessed snot and her \\"woe is me\\" act about her sexual preference is wearing beyond thin.  The character has gone out of control and it's no fun to read about her or care what mess of misery she'll land herself in next.  Cornwell's increasing focus on Lucy makes me wonder if she's planning on phasing out Scarpetta to focus on her - I really hope not, because she's strictly become a one-note character.<br /><br />There's a series of scenes between Marino and Scarpetta that on the surface seem a little sexually and emotionally gratuitous, but they're necessary for the plot development of the book here and their relationship development in any future books.  Cornwell finally lays Marino's feelings for Scarpetta out there for the readers, even if the doctor herself remains mostly in the dark about them.<br /><br />For the reviewer who thought Marino was made hunky: absolutely not.  He's still the same obnoxious, alcoholic, racist, misogynist homophobe, although he's finally lost some weight, taken to wearing all black and shaving his head and has mostly quit smoking.  If Cornwell hadn't taken care of the weight and heart health issue, the Marino character would have no place to go in future books except the morgue, since she had him near death from them in the past.  Nowhere did I ever think Marino was a hunk and there's not a whisper that Scarpetta thinks so either; she comments that he's lost weight and that's all.<br /><br />The writing is good if not great, the characters are pretty much where we left them at the end of the last book (I strongly recommend you read at least the last few books to figure out where the characters stand in this one) and the forensic details are stellar and interesting.  The ending is, as always with Corwell, a little abrupt and pat, the takedown bloodless and unsatisfying and you (as always) never really get an idea that the main cast of characters has learned much from all the angst.  I was at least satisfied at the direction of the Benton/Scarpetta relationship; it's the first time in a long time that I've read a Scarpetta book and not ended up smacking myself in the head.<br /><br />If Cornwell picks up anything from the reviews about this book, I hope she finds a way to increase Scarpetta's appearances, go back to her first-person narrative and tone down Lucy or eliminate her altogether.  If she can do that, then I finally have high hopes again for this series that I thought was deader than anything on Scarpetta's table.<br /><br />The Scarpetta, Benton and Marino sections of the book rate a 5 to me, the Lucy, Rudy and Henri sections a 2, with the overall plot, forensic detail and redeeming of Scarpetta raising my score to a total of 4 stars.forensic detail and redeeming of Scarpetta raising my score to a total of 4 stars.	2004-09-08
US	49585864	R1OYA8A09EDWIK	0743262530	613538594	Vamped: A Novel	Books	4	19	22	N	N	Fun, frothy and utterly forgettable	I liked this book a lot, and I'm a fan of a wide range of vampire fiction, from the silly to the serious.  That said, this is probably one you could wait for the paperback for.<br /><br />Vamped tells the story of disillusioned and bored vampire Marty, who's decided it's time to join the really, really dead.  On his way to death a la reckless driving, he comes across the improbably named 6-yr. old Isuzu Trooper, who's just witnessed Mom getting turned into Vamp Snacks.<br /><br />So in a world where the vampires outnumber the humans badly enough that Spaghetti-O's are repacked as lemur food and human children are an expensive delicacy, of course Marty is going to take little Isuzu under his batwing and plump her up.  And of course little Isuzu is precocious, intelligent and tasty-looking, setting up a whole book's worth of Marty's internal give and take about what constitutes family vs. what dinner is.<br /><br />The ensuing hijinks (skating in Alaska where even the dead make puffy breaths in the cold) are funny and sweet and Marty is mostly cute as he comes to have fatherly feelings for Isuzu.  The real fun in this book is in the daily details (like why vamps have pets, eBay business in Count Chocula is booming and the workings of the BBQ).<br /><br />The drawbacks of this book are that we don't really get to know Isuzu much, since the book is told from the rather scattered and careless perspective of Marty.  This is chick lit without the chick.  Huge, huge passages of time are skipped, with Isuzu suddenly aging quite rapidly here and there.  The totally sexless Marty suddenly finds vamp love near a convenient point towards the end and I'm not sure how much logic I can suspend to really let slide the fact that a child can be cooped up for nearly 12 years straight with only limited freaky television and a couple hours with her guardian for company and not end up utterly insane.<br /><br />The near-ending of the book is inexplicably darker and more sinister than the entire rest of the story and it sort of jars the reader into expecting the end to have more punch than it does.  I probably was expecting too much of the author, but the ending was just not as powerful or as memorable as it could have been and it made the overall experience of the book disappointing for me.<br /><br />This is a fun book, sort of flaky and goofy and not bad if you're looking for something to read on a boring afternoon.  In my opinion, it's really not something you read more than once and it's not something you'll think much about when you close the last page.  Like Chinese food, when you're finished, you'll know you had something but not really care much what it was or if you'll order it again.  I wish this would have come out in paperback first so I could justify spending the money on something that really didn't leave much impression one way or another.than the entire rest of the story and it sort of jars the reader into expecting the end to have more punch than it does.  I probably was expecting too much of the author, but the ending was just not as powerful or as memorable as it could have been and it made the overall experience of the book disappointing for me. <br /> <br />This is a fun book, sort of flaky and goofy and not bad if you're looking for something to read on a boring afternoon.  In my opinion, it's really not something you read more than once and it's not something you'll think much about when you close the last page.  Like Chinese food, when you're finished, you'll know you had something but not really care much what it was or if you'll order it again.  I wish this would have come out in paperback first so I could justify spending the money on something that really didn't leave much impression one way or another.	2004-09-07
US	49585864	R39LY9H06QO1X2	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Amazingly vivid story	Year of Wonders begins with a bang, letting the reader know that a catastrophe has befallen the inhabitants of a small mountain village in England.  Seen through the eyes of Anna Frith, a young widow who serves the village's minister's house, we witness the horror and death sweeping through the area during the year of the plague, 1666.<br /><br />Brooks writes this story with an elegant, yet powerful touch.  The details of village life and the real effects of the plague are tangible and stunning.  This is literally a film played out on the page, with scene after scene so richly written that the line between fact and fiction becomes blurred.  As the seasons pass, Brooks expresses the fear, anger and eventually, numbed grief turning to hope (some of it warped) of the village and Anna.  The plague itself is written almost as a character; it lives and breathes and there are many times when I found myself holding my breath, wondering what it was going to do next.<br /><br />Anna is splendidly written, a mix of feminism and the Puritan values of the time.  From the beginning, you know she's destined for more than working the fields or washing dishes.  While it would have been easy to turn Anna into some kind of saint, Brooks does a wonderful job of showing Anna's flaws without making them larger than the story itself.  In addition to Anna, the character of Michael Mompellion is compelling and strongly written.  At the end of the story, I was shocked by some of the revelations about him but found them to be completely believable and relevant to the story.<br /><br />The one area (and it's a small one) where I felt this story veered off track was the final chapter.  Maybe I was missing something, but given the year and the role women played in society, I found where Anna ended up to be implausible and a little bit too pat.  Maybe it could and did happen, but compared to the tone of the book before it, it was odd.  I did think that she ended up with the life she deserved, but the way it was written seemed hurried and needed a little more suspension of belief than I expected.<br /><br />This was an amazing book, one I will definitely read again and recommend to my family and friends.  When I finished it, the one thing that surprised me the most was that the book was only just over 300 pages - this reads like a huge, epic story.ed, but the way it was written seemed hurried and needed a little more suspension of belief than I expected. <br /> <br />This was an amazing book, one I will definitely read again and recommend to my family and friends.  When I finished it, the one thing that surprised me the most was that the book was only just over 300 pages - this reads like a huge, epic story.	2004-09-07
US	49585864	R3JFVYN3WX5KPS	042519485X	806820342	Undead and Unwed (Queen Betsy, Book 1)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Hilarious vamp tale	Take 3 parts Stephanie Plum, toss in a sprinkling of Ivana Trump, a dash of Anita Blake's Jean-Claude, a dribble of Dave Barry and you come up with the newly-undead Betsy, Queen of the Vamps.  The only thing is, Betsy's more interested in some seriously serial shoe-shopping than being the boss of a bunch of Anne Rice devotees.<br /><br />A huge fan of the vampire genre in general, in Laurell K. Hamilton in particular, I was very hesitant to read this book, afraid that it would be missing the serious vamp vibe like Charlaine Harris's books.  I was very pleasantly surprised to find this an enjoying, fast and still-memorable read.<br /><br />Davidson has a knack for witty dialogue that rivals Janet Evanovich and a shoe fetish that may be unmatched.  The repartee between Betsy and her potential vamp boyfriend Sinclair is funny, sexy, maddeningly ditzy and occasionally touching.  The storyline in this book and its sequel, Undead and Unemployed, is interesting without being heavy and complicated, light enough for a quick weekend read but sturdy enough to still be fun on a second or third glance.<br /><br />The character of Betsy is a joy to unfold, but it's the discovery of Sinclair and how he learns how to tolerate and like Betsy in spite of her personality that's the true treasure here.  I laughed at Betsy, but after the first book and into the second, it was the scenes with Sinclair that I really dove into.  He's a serious character, struggling to figure out how he got dumped into a Three Stooges skit, almost symbolic of a hardcore vamp fic reader trying to figure out what to do with this fizzy little Jimmy Choo-filled romp.<br /><br />There were only two quibbles I had with this book, and they're minor enough that it didn't lower my rating.  I wish the other characters would ease off on their complaints about how shallow and vain and obnoxious Betsy is.  She's all of those things, but she's also sweet, funny, kind when you don't expect it and more intelligent than she's given credit for.  I realize that her airheadedness is a main ingredient to the story, it's just that by the end of the book, I started feeling a little sorry for Betsy and more than a little ticked off at the other characters for the way they treated her.  The only other thing I wished for were more romantic scenes; I didn't want the book to turn into some Harlequin novel, but I wished the author would have given a little more page time to the relationship between Betsy and Sinclair.  This book could easily have been puffed out with another 100 or so pages of the two of them without feeling padded.<br /><br />Overall, this is a really fun, happy and sparkly read that shouldn't be dismissed by serious vamp fiction fans because it's too bubbly.  I think Davidson and the Undead series is a great balance to the darker, longer and more intricate paranormal fiction out there.t than she's given credit for.  I realize that her airheadedness is a main ingredient to the story, it's just that by the end of the book, I started feeling a little sorry for Betsy and more than a little ticked off at the other characters for the way they treated her.  The only other thing I wished for were more romantic scenes; I didn't want the book to turn into some Harlequin novel, but I wished the author would have given a little more page time to the relationship between Betsy and Sinclair.  This book could easily have been puffed out with another 100 or so pages of the two of them without feeling padded. <br /> <br />Overall, this is a really fun, happy and sparkly read that shouldn't be dismissed by serious vamp fiction fans because it's too bubbly.  I think Davidson and the Undead series is a great balance to the darker, longer and more intricate paranormal fiction out there.	2004-08-19
US	49585864	R2Q6YPSZV1JYSO	0743233476	695751496	Monday Mourning: A Novel (Reichs, Kathy)	Books	4	86	90	N	N	Reichs heads back to the formula that works	There are some authors whose books you buy just because you've read the rest in the series and you can't help but keep buying them, as bad as they sometimes get (Cornwell's Scarpetta books are a perfect example).  Reichs' Tempe Brennan series is like that for me and I'm relieved that while she didn't knock my socks off with this one, she didn't disappoint like the last couple of books either.<br />Tempe is back in Quebec for this installment, thank heavens.  The interplay between Tempe and her Canadian colleagues always seems to sizzle, while the American connections drag and bore.  The usual players are all back in action, including the oddball Chardonneau, cranky Claudel and of course, on again/off again love interest Andrew Ryan.<br />The story is tightly packed into what seems like not as many pages as usual.  The forensic details are exquisitely presented, apart from three yawn-inducing lectures about carbon dating, among other things.  While there are a whole lot of implausible plot lines I can swallow in the genre, I have a hard time believing Tempe's boss LaManche has never heard of carbon dating.  The basic plot line is interesting, the crime being solved is, sadly, easy to believe happened.  The solving of the crime itself moves along at a relatively believable pace, although with others, I think the decision to have Tempe and her girlfriend investigate the crime themselves a la CSI was a poor decision on Reichs' part.<br />Where this book fails is exactly where the past few have failed.  The \\"romance\\" between Ryan and Tempe is not particularly interesting, no matter how blue Reichs wants to make his eyes.  He's inattentive and secretive, she's snotty and throws tantrums.  I don't know what on earth these two see in each other, unless it's all physical (Reichs makes sure we know Tempe is a gorgeous size 4 and Ryan is a tall hunk).  The reason for Ryan's distraction is offered up on a silver platter right around page 120 or so, although we the readers aren't supposed to get it until the jarring end of the book.<br />I can easily recommend Monday Mourning to any Reichs fan and to fans who've been turned off of the Scarpetta books because she lost focus on the forensics.  Reichs is well-credentialed in forensic anthropology and it shows without reading like a textbook (apart from those three preachy parts).  The Ryan romance angle could be dropped and I think both characters would be better for it.  If Reichs really has to have some kind of sexual tension between her leading lady and someone, I would rather see her explore the odd hate/hate relationship Tempe has with the prickly but sexy Claudel.  There was a glimmer of something hinted at in the final pages of this book, one that had more heat than all the scenes between Tempe and Ryan combined.n't supposed to get it until the jarring end of the book.  <br />I can easily recommend Monday Mourning to any Reichs fan and to fans who've been turned off of the Scarpetta books because she lost focus on the forensics.  Reichs is well-credentialed in forensic anthropology and it shows without reading like a textbook (apart from those three preachy parts).  The Ryan romance angle could be dropped and I think both characters would be better for it.  If Reichs really has to have some kind of sexual tension between her leading lady and someone, I would rather see her explore the odd hate/hate relationship Tempe has with the prickly but sexy Claudel.  There was a glimmer of something hinted at in the final pages of this book, one that had more heat than all the scenes between Tempe and Ryan combined.	2004-07-09
US	49585864	R2TL7UP1HHZYOQ	0843950501	848324717	Dark Destiny (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 11)	Books	4	215	230	N	N	Good Dark entry, just not the best	If we're really being nitpicky about how many female Carpathians have been featured as leads, there have been more than two: Francesca, Desari, Syndil (not necessarily a lead, but she had her own story) and Savannah. I don't think Destiny really counts, since she was born human and was converted.<br /> I had mixed feelings about this book. I would of course recommend it to anyone who's a fan of the series already, because while Feehan does tend to go off on her &quot;cause&quot; tangents, Dark Destiny still works well as part of the series and furthers the storyline of the Carpathians in general. I'm not sure anyone reading this as their first &quot;Dark&quot; book would be all that impressed though, and that would be a shame since there are some really wonderful books in the series, books that are better than this one.<br /><br /> The pluses: Destiny has more backbone than nearly all the previous female lifemates combined, although we have to rely on Feehan telling us so every few paragraphs rather than on any actions she takes. We see very little of Destiny's hunting skills, although there are a few scenes where it's refreshing that the hero actually lets her fight. Of course, as per the usual, in the end, the heroine needs to be saved by one of the menfolk (rolling my eyes here), but up until that point, Destiny has more autonomy than any other Carpathian woman except maybe Desari and Francesca.<br /><br /> I wasn't even remotely attached to any of the human pals this time around and found the whole lost lifemate story thread to be a snooze. We already heard what happens when a lifemate goes unclaimed in Shea and Jacques' story with Shea's mother; rather than feeling any sadness for the lifemate here, I thought the character (and her sister) were unnecessarily corny and cliched. The priest was a yawner too, despite what we find out he knows - if the intent was to create a new Father Hummer, Feehan failed. The biggest quibble I have with Dark Destiny is introducing a character like MaryAnn and then doing absolutely nothing with her. Let's face it, we read these books not for the sidekick humans but for the Carpathians - why bother shoving a character on us as hard as Feehan does MaryAnn and then have it utterly fizzle out because there aren't enough pages to tell two stories?<br /><br /> I only have one thing to say about the choice of names for Nicholae's brother - Vikirnoff? Surely Feehan realized that the name was close enough to a brand of vodka that it would induce giggles? The other irritant was having Feehan introduce a &quot;new&quot; line of ancients and have us believe none of the rest of them knew about it, not even the other ancients. I realize Feehan's running out of characters mentioned in previous books, but there still has to be more than a dozen Carpathians running around; I'd rather hear about them than have her make up more ancients just because they're the most powerful (and I guess she thinks that makes them more interesting).<br /><br /> The romance between Nicholae and Destiny is sweet and given her issues, proceeds in a believable way. I didn't find the whole victim mode Destiny keeps going into as annoying, given that she's been basically alone her entire life. I'd be more unhappy if she turned out to be well-adjusted and fell into her lifemate relationship easily.<br /><br /> Ultimately, this isn't the worst book in the series (that honor goes to Dark Gold) or the best (three way tie between Dark Prince, Dark Magic and Dark Fire). It falls somewhere in the middle, probably close to the Carpathian/Scarletti hybrid, Dark Symphony.<br /><br /> I find it quite amusing that any review not wildly adoring of these books gets a lot of unhelpful ratings. I happen to love reading Feehan's books, especially the Dark series, but think it's absolutely ridiculous that some of Feehan's fans are doing such a disservice to other fans and potential readers by deliberately skewing the reviewers' ratings. I can't imagine any author approving of the kind of rabidly blind loyalty that doesn't allow for honest discussion of the merits of a book and I think it's unfortunate that some very good reviews keep getting lost because they're rated so poorly by people who really don't want to hear an honest discussion.blind loyalty that doesn't allow for honest discussion of the merits of a book and I think it's unfortunate that some very good reviews keep getting lost because they're rated so poorly by people who really don't want to hear an honest discussion.	2004-07-09
US	49585864	R1C37LO30F3Z5W	0312289723	1827617	Ten Big Ones (Stephanie Plum Novels)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Not the best Plum, but still a good, fun read	By now, faithful readers of Ms. Evanovich will already know the plot: goofy bounty hunter mediocre Stephanie Plum, in the midst of some bond enforcement shenanigans, ticks off the wrong person and is targeted for car fires, smacking around and death.  Mixed in are some fighting with Morelli (will Steph commit or won't she), lusting after Ranger, abuse of Rex the hamster who only seems to get fed junk food and lots of zany sidekick action from Lula, Connie and the infamous Grandma Mazur.  Ten books in, Evanovich sees no reason to mess with a winning formula, and it works again, only sort of this time.<br />Defying all logic, inept Steph manages to locate and infiltrate the Ranger Bat Cave, keep ahead of a major assassin, string Morelli along one book longer and yet again encounter the strangest people the burbs have to offer.  The laugh-out-loud moments are fewer than in any other Plum book, but there are enough of them to keep you interested, if not glued to the pages.  If you've read any of books 1-9, you already know the ending and you already know there won't be any resolution of the relationship issues.<br />Writing a long-term series strains the talents of even the best authors (J.D. Robb, Sue Grafton and Patricia Cornwell, among others), so Evanovich can be excused for some of the plot fatigue.  I just can't help but think these characters should be moving along beyond the limits set within the first few books by now rather than replaying the same old schtick.<br />Ten Big Ones is a well-written and well-crafted book that reads fairly quickly.  What disappoints is that it could and should have been a lot more.  I hope Evanovich takes a little extra time with the eleventh installment and gives her loyal readers a better story next time around.	2004-07-07
US	49585864	R1WP90O17VTU2C	0060572965	661385357	Dead Witch Walking	Books	1	75	107	N	N	A blatant rip-off	This book isn't just reminiscent of Laurell K. Hamilton, it completely and utterly rips her off, not to mention a few other authors along the way (Hamilton gets the honor twice as both Anita Blake and Princess Merry and their friends get copied).  The author thanks her editor for her suggestions - she ought to be firing her for not pointing out that this book has been written at least once before by better authors.<br />You've heard the story before.  Tough, sexy, not-quite-human woman with overly curly hair working for quasi-government agency to bring in other rogue non-humans engaging in illegal behavior quits job to go solo, hooks up with sexy vamp and other various non-humans and gets into a lot of trouble.  The plot twists and heroine's planning skills are both seriously flawed and make any assertion that this woman is some kind of wondergirl absolutely ridiculous.<br />I assume in some sort of attempt to sex up this completely asexual and antiseptic book, the author threw in a ludicrous lesbian vamp/witch subplot; the subplot itself isn't the problem, it's that the author neither commits to nor gets rid of it.  It hangs over the story like a bad smell, surfacing when some kind of tension needs to be manufactured.  Getting a vampire upset, wearing an item of their clothing, talking about their family with them or following them into another room are all vamp foreplay according to the book of vampire dating dos and don'ts in this story.  In one fell swoop, the author manages to turn both Ivy and Rachel into slaves to their hormones and non-human reactions and then almost instantly has Rachel falling into fits of disgust at the thought of maybe having sex with another woman.  It's insulting to the reader, to anyone in a same-sex relationship and to the characters that the author should have cared more about.<br />With so much of the story and characterizations appearing to have been lifted from other places, it's almost impossible to critique the actual writing skills of the author.  The book is what it would have to be, given the number of material sources: choppy, schizophrenic, confusing, frustrating and ultimately, because I've read better from the original authors, boring.<br />The last few chapters leave more loose ends and improbable but convenient plot devices than I've ever seen in a book before.  Who or what are Nick, Keasley and Kalamack?  What's the deal with Ivy and why did she lie to Rachel (and how did Nick know?)?  What happened with the demon mark - was it paid or not, how did Nick manage to deal with the demon on Rachel's behalf and why would Kalamack think Rachel sent one to him?<br />In the hands of a more competent and original author, I'd stick around for what is an obviously planned book 2 to find out, but in this case, I found that I just didn't care about the answers.  I have a feeling if I re-read a few of my Hamilton books, the answers are already in there anyway.skills of the author.  The book is what it would have to be, given the number of material sources: choppy, schizophrenic, confusing, frustrating and ultimately, because I've read better from the original authors, boring.<br />The last few chapters leave more loose ends and improbable but convenient plot devices than I've ever seen in a book before.  Who or what are Nick, Keasley and Kalamack?  What's the deal with Ivy and why did she lie to Rachel (and how did Nick know?)?  What happened with the demon mark - was it paid or not, how did Nick manage to deal with the demon on Rachel's behalf and why would Kalamack think Rachel sent one to him?<br />In the hands of a more competent and original author, I'd stick around for what is an obviously planned book 2 to find out, but in this case, I found that I just didn't care about the answers.  I have a feeling if I re-read a few of my Hamilton books, the answers are already in there anyway.	2004-07-01
US	49585864	RF8G1M8ZV13KW	0743467434	75797710	I Thirst for You (Primes Series, Book 2)	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Should have been a better book	Having read other books by the same author, I found I was more than a little disappointed in this one, especially as part of an ongoing series.<br />The book itself is fairly short for the genre at 325 rather largely-typed softcover pages.  As necessity, the character development, especially of Marc the hero, is stunted.  If you haven't read the first in the series, you probably spent at least a couple dozen pages scratching your head and wondering what the heck a \\"Prime\\" was.  There's a miniscule explanation, which doesn't at all do justice to what was a major plotline in book 1 and looks to be in book 3.<br />The heroine is typical: sexy, spunky, a little extraordinary, willing to accept a lot of strange behavior from a guy who looks good in a towel.  What we know of the hero is also standard fare: sexy manly man with lots of secrets.  That's about as deep as it gets, with barely a glance at his all-important family and clan lines.  I'm not really sure why Sizemore chose to focus so much on the familial demands in the vamp hierarchy in book 1, only to nearly completely drop it in book 2.<br />The bad guy is interesting in a sort of mad-scientist cliched way and Sizemore keeps one theme constant that I appreciate: that the vamp isn't necessarily all-powerful, able to leap buildings in a single bound while never getting tired.  Other than that, this book could easily have just appeared as one of the Harlequin books of the month.  There's not much in here that is deserving of either the romance or the horror aisle, just enough of both to make it readable until the new Laurell Hamilton book is out.<br />I would only recommend this for die-hard Sizemore or vamp romance fans.  It's not particularly well-written and the story won't stay with you for much more than an hour or two past finishing it, but it's okay for a painless, quickie beach read.	2004-07-01
US	49585864	R1KJCEHKQK4I5Q	038531129X	905531819	Mary Queen of Scots	Books	3	190	199	N	Y	Wonderful book bogged down with annoying problems	It probably is unfair to compare the writing styles of Fraser and her counterpart, Alison Weir, but having just read what seems like a mountain of books by both of them, I can't help but do so and find Fraser ahead on some points, behind on others.<br />Fraser has a methodical style wherein each sentence is so cram-packed with detail that her books probably improve on their second or third readings.  She takes a comprehensive, relatively non-biased look at her subject here and provides an interesting biography of a woman who has been characterized as everything from a near saint to a scheming, treasonous viper who deserved her eventual beheading.  While Weir seems to take the position that Elizabeth I was some beloved angel who eventually had to sully her hands and cut off the head of her cousin for national security, I think the truth is somewhere else, as does Fraser.<br />In terms of historical accuracy, I think Fraser probably has the edge over Weir, notwithstanding both authors' impeccable research.  Weir allows story to take precedence over fact, something that doesn't seem to happen as much with Fraser.<br />Which brings me to my list of quibbles with this book.  Fraser may write factually, but in doing so, she comes thisclose to having written a book every bit as dry as the ones I steered clear of in school.  It was torture to get through some of the passages and I put the book down more than once, not to pick it up again for days.  I wasn't compelled to finish the book and find out the rest of the story the way I was with Weir's.<br />My second issue was with all of the passages in untranslated languages, French primarily.  A few years ago, I'd say I spoke French fluently, but even I had to look up some of the phrases here.  It wouldn't have hurt the narrative to provide a parenthetical translation for those of us not fluent in multiple languages who don't feel like getting up to run the thing through Babelfish.  Intended or not, it gave the author an air of arrogance and was my main stumbling block to enjoying this book as fully as I wanted to.<br />Overall, it was a detailed biography, probably as accurate as anything else that's out there, without the apparent author bias that's seen in Weir's book.  This is not easy reading though; the story is unevenly written, overly laden with minutiae where it's not necessary and filled with passages and important comments that a lot of people won't even be able to decipher without help.  I'd give it 4 stars for credibility, 2 for accessibility, for a final 3 stars overall.f arrogance and was my main stumbling block to enjoying this book as fully as I wanted to.<br />Overall, it was a detailed biography, probably as accurate as anything else that's out there, without the apparent author bias that's seen in Weir's book.  This is not easy reading though; the story is unevenly written, overly laden with minutiae where it's not necessary and filled with passages and important comments that a lot of people won't even be able to decipher without help.  I'd give it 4 stars for credibility, 2 for accessibility, for a final 3 stars overall.	2004-04-11
US	49585864	RQIN4X0HBD36	0802136834	405327590	The Six Wives of Henry VIII	Books	5	7	9	N	Y	Stunning, fascinating book	I cannot recommend this book strongly enough to anyone who's even slightly interested in the story of Henry VIII and his six wives.  This is a gorgeous, cohesive book, easy to read and full of historical detail that enriches the story rather than overwhelms it.  There were many times when I forgot I was reading non-fiction, the story was so cleanly presented.<br />This is a far cry from the dry, confusing history lessons I had in high school.  Weir makes these women (and the men around them) come back to life, warts and all.  Normally reading a book like this, I'd need a flow chart to keep track of all the dukes, duchesses, ladies, lords and scheming religious zealots, but I had no trouble at all remembering who was who, even during the period where every woman was apparently named Katherine, Anne or Elizabeth.  It was especially interesting to see how kind history has been to Anne Boleyn, a woman who may actually have been deserving of the executioner's axe.<br />My one miniscule gripe (not enough to drop my review from 5 stars) is that once in a while, Weir puts the story ahead of the timeline and will insert details out of sequence.  One example of that is that during a segment discussing the latter years of the marriage of Henry and Anne Boleyn, there's a short paragraph discussing a gift Anne gave to Henry early on in their relationship.  There really wasn't any reason why that tidbit couldn't have been presented chronologically; the only thing I could think of was that perhaps the author didn't want to interrupt the narrative about the acrimony between Anne and Katherine of Aragon by tossing in the bit about the gift. There are about a half dozen or so instances like this, and while they don't at all disturb the flow of the book, they struck me as a little annoying given the meticulous detail to the timeline in every other instance.<br />This is a truly masterful book; I plan on immediately purchasing Weir's other books in this genre.	2004-03-18
US	49585864	R1LSU2PGRMQRF6	0743227441	512398584	The Other Boleyn Girl	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	A good book, with reservations	Personally, I think the story of the Boleyn girls and Henry VIII is dramatic enough on its own and doesn't require the added fictionalized details to make the story better, but this was still an interesting book.<br />I agree with the another reviewer who remarked that if you take away the Tudor setting, Gregory is not all that different from your standard romance novelist.  Mary was an interesting choice as narrator, but too many times I found myself wanting to smack her for her behavior.  Somewhere around mid-book, she evolves into some sort of beloved saint; whether that's true or not, I don't know, but it didn't endear Mary the character to me.  Anne, originally a complex and flawed woman becomes a shrieking cariacature by the book's end.  When she finally loses her head, it's almost anti-climactic.  Given her portrayal, you want something worse to happen.<br />Aside from the birth order debate, there are some other small inconsistencies, like the spelling of Mary's daughter's name and the ambiguity surrounding her son's parentage and where he ends up.  Would Henry VIII really allow his second son to just trot off to a farm with another man playing daddy?  It was a point that bothered me throughout this book; Henry was desperate for sons and I found his complete dismissal of Mary's son to be odd.<br />Historically, Mary did marry William for love and they did go on to live relatively happily ever after.  Sadly, for me, Gregory lapsed back into romance novel-speak in that last part of the book.  The language was so flowery, the situations so improbable that I had a hard time finishing this book.  There was no evidence that I've ever read that Catherine/Katherine was present with Anne at her beheading, and the notion that some guy on the street would be allowed up on the scaffold to haul one of the ladies in waiting away was simply ridiculous.  The story could have been told just as dramatically without those devices.<br />All in all, this is a very good book and full enough of historical accuracy that I'd recommend it on that basis alone.  I would, however, also recommend one of the excellent non-fiction books on Henry VIII and his wives as an accompaniment to put some of the events of this story into true perspective (Alison Weir's book is especially good and easy to read).full enough of historical accuracy that I'd recommend it on that basis alone.  I would, however, also recommend one of the excellent non-fiction books on Henry VIII and his wives as an accompaniment to put some of the events of this story into true perspective (Alison Weir's book is especially good and easy to read).	2004-03-18
US	49585864	R2LLZ0Y7IIXX3D	0399151060	728441185	Remember When	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Roberts vs. Robb: can you be pitted against yourself?	I won't comment on the plotline of the book, which has been more than adequately covered in several other reviews and the synopsis.  The story is pretty much as described and to me, was formulaic romance/thriller stuff.<br />I'm a big fan of the Robb alter-ego, not so much of the recent Roberts' work.  This book turned out to be no exception, as I found myself flipping through the first half of the book in my haste to get the the second half.<br />I was completely unimpressed with the storyline to begin with - there are only so many times we should have to hear the story of some plucky little heroine with a charming rogue of a daddy who did something bad and sent the family into ruin.  It's been done to death, and Roberts adds nothing new to it.  I was not intrigued or interested in the pairing of the two romantic leads, mostly because they just seemed so bland and I felt like I'd probably read about them before in one of Roberts' other books.<br />Skipping ahead to part 2, we're treated to Eve Dallas being brought into the storyline, which perked it up considerably to me.  I disagree with others who say this was the same old, same old from Robb.  This was a wonderful chapter in the continuing story of how Eve and Roarke are learning to live with each other and how Eve is starting to let people get close to her while still maintaining that tough cop attitude that is so much fun.  The whole wrapping up of part 1 by Eve in part 2 was boring, but that had more to do with the bad start than it did to the Eve/Roarke characters or the &quot;Robb&quot; writing which is as crisp as ever.<br />I was pleased to read more Eve and Roarke, but sincerely hope Roberts doesn't pull a stunt like this again and try to merge her two writing personalities.  They don't go together and when she forces the two side by side, we're reminded again that this woman has written so many books (a great many of them wonderful) that characters and plots are all starting to sound alike.<br />I'm looking forward to the next Robb book, less than happy that now that she's been &quot;outed&quot; as Nora Roberts that her publisher decided to start printing those in hardcovers too.  There is such a thing as having too many books out at once, something I hope Ms. Roberts and her publishers realize before putting out something like this again.<br />The first part of the book got a 2 from me, the second half, a 4.5, with a median score of just over 3 in total.  I'd recommend the book for someone looking for some mindless romantic reading, but this really isn't one of Roberts' best efforts.looking forward to the next Robb book, less than happy that now that she's been &quot;outed&quot; as Nora Roberts that her publisher decided to start printing those in hardcovers too.  There is such a thing as having too many books out at once, something I hope Ms. Roberts and her publishers realize before putting out something like this again.<br />The first part of the book got a 2 from me, the second half, a 4.5, with a median score of just over 3 in total.  I'd recommend the book for someone looking for some mindless romantic reading, but this really isn't one of Roberts' best efforts.	2004-01-23
US	49585864	RKWR4OB20T71	0345453417	554884676	Cry No More	Books	4	7	10	N	N	A wonderful book..just not a thriller or traditional romance	I'll start out by saying I thoroughly enjoyed reading this book and would happily recommend it to others.  However, the story was not at all what I expected, nor what the jacket or editorial summary promised.<br />The bare bones of the story are mostly as described - a happily married new mom living in Mexico is brutally attacked and her baby stolen.  Fast forward ten years as our heroine is now divorced, running a non-profit organization that helps to man searches for lost people and desperately trying to find the son who was kidnapped (despite family and friends wanting her to give up and move on).  There's not a lot of plot or relationship building that helps us get from point A to point B, but to move the story along, Milla just happens to stumble across the one man who can help her find her son and (shock) he's studly and silent and brooding, just like her.<br />The book jacket promises that Milla is extraordinarily gifted at finding children, but apparently the editors forgot to leave that part in the book, because apart from one brief and not particularly suspenseful search, we never see Milla find anyone.  Ms. Howard tries very hard to make us understand that despite her outward tough girl, Milla is a girly cream puff, longing to be a housewife and mom.  I didn't really see any tough girl, but I guess the fact that Milla wears a lot of fluttery pastel blouses and sundresses supports the latter.<br />The hero is sexy in a surly, sort of dusty and menacing sort of way, and apparently he has a sweet inner self that Milla manages to unearth.  Surprisingly for Ms. Howard, the sex scenes were fairly bland to me and I found myself enjoying the perspective of the hero and how their relationship affected him more than anything from Milla's point of view.<br />As for the villains, I'm no Einstein, but I figured those two out by the first quarter of the book.  There was nothing at all surprising, interesting or fulfilling about their exposure and while I don't expect every loose end tied by the end of the book, what happens to these two was remarkably...nothing.<br />All that said, the final 60 or so pages of this book were completely riveting.  No contemporary romance author writes angst and pain better than Ms. Howard and I found myself with tears on my face for most of those 60 pages.  Those pages alone elevate this book from a formulaic romantic suspense novel to a really good study of the devastation caused by the loss of a child, the sweetness of giving a gift even though it tears your soul out and the road back to living.  The final page (the final paragraph, really) was touching, even if it was predictable.<br />Don't buy this if you're looking for a suspenseful mystery or thriller, because that's just not what this.  There's not a lot of background detail, not a lot of scene detail and parts of the characters are less nuanced than I've come to expect from Ms. Howard.  But as a really touching story of one woman's journey from obsession to peace, this really is a book that works.very loose end tied by the end of the book, what happens to these two was remarkably...nothing.<br />All that said, the final 60 or so pages of this book were completely riveting.  No contemporary romance author writes angst and pain better than Ms. Howard and I found myself with tears on my face for most of those 60 pages.  Those pages alone elevate this book from a formulaic romantic suspense novel to a really good study of the devastation caused by the loss of a child, the sweetness of giving a gift even though it tears your soul out and the road back to living.  The final page (the final paragraph, really) was touching, even if it was predictable.  <br />Don't buy this if you're looking for a suspenseful mystery or thriller, because that's just not what this.  There's not a lot of background detail, not a lot of scene detail and parts of the characters are less nuanced than I've come to expect from Ms. Howard.  But as a really touching story of one woman's journey from obsession to peace, this really is a book that works.	2003-12-14
US	49585864	R38HL21E1RB8EL	0312987625	744880350	Midnight Pleasures	Books	2	37	39	N	Y	A snooze-fest from authors who should know better	Given the three major authors involved in this (plus one I've never heard of), I expected something really good to great from this collection of short stories.  It came up far short of either of those.<br />The editorial review summarizes each plotline well enough, so I'll just offer some comments without delving into spoilers.<br />In the first section by Amanda Ashley, there are some serious plot and timeline flaws.  The characters literally manage to set off on a short quest one day and by the following page, we've spanned three seasons.  In this story especially, the brevity is jarring and unpleasant.  I'm still scratching my head at how these two came to love each other in about 20 pages of descriptive narrative and I have no idea what Darkfest is supposed to actually be.  Reading this, you will have many questions - don't bother looking for the answers in the story, they're not there.<br />Maggie Shayne's story is confusing, not particularly sensual or interesting and I was mostly glad that it wasn't longer.  The heightened tension was completely forced and the quickie ending was just strange.<br />Sherrilyn Kenyon's story is the only one of the four that I would have loved to read in longer form.  I liked her heroine and liked that the hero was seriously flawed.  There's an attention to detail that Ms. Kenyon uses that makes you forget you're reading a short story, and I found everything she said about witchcraft to be plausible.  This would have been an outstanding long book and encourages me to look for more books by this author.<br />The final story by Ronda Thompson was just strange.  I know the point of these stories was that they're full of &quot;otherworldly&quot; characters, but the writing doesn't have to be bad, does it?  So many words are crammed into each paragraph, it's frustrating when there's still no storyline advancement a dozen pages later.  This may have been included because of the werewolf angle, but it really is not any kind of otherworldly romance, it's just a poorly written short story that is unsatisfying.<br />Finally, overall I was left with a feeling of, &quot;and that's it?&quot; when I finished this book.  None of the stories were at all satisfying or anything original.  You'd do better to read Laurell K. Hamilton for vampires, werewolves and fairies.dly romance, it's just a poorly written short story that is unsatisfying.<br />Finally, overall I was left with a feeling of, &quot;and that's it?&quot; when I finished this book.  None of the stories were at all satisfying or anything original.  You'd do better to read Laurell K. Hamilton for vampires, werewolves and fairies.	2003-11-18
US	49585864	RXXWVTNC68BMB	0486217507	380212053	Jewelry Making and Design: An Illustrated Textbook for Teachers, Students of Design and Craft Workers	Books	1	34	42	N	N	Disappointing	I was pretty disappointed with this book.  From the one review posted, I thought it would have some interesting information about techniques and equipment that I could translate into my own jewelry-making.  Unfortunately, most of what is included is unusable for anyone except the professional crafter who has a significant amount of money already invested in equipment like kilns, soldering tools, polishing benches and a melting furnace.<br />I didn't expect perfect pictures and illustrations in a soft cover book, but the images contained are one of my biggest peeves with this book.  They're grainy, dark and not useful for showing technique or design at all.  The illustrations are better, but don't always match the chapter they appear in, making it hard to decipher exactly what lesson you're supposed to be learning from them.<br />There is scant attention paid to basic jewelry making.  This is almost entirely a metalsmithing book.  Unless you're interested in casting, pouring and soldering, there isn't much here to attract the casual jewelry-maker.  The final third of the book talks about the elements of design and function, which any high-schooler who's taken art class probably already knows.  Concentrating mostly on how to translate shapes from nature into jewelry, I wouldn't call the designs in this book &quot;traditional&quot; in any sense.  While not abstract or modern, the shapes that make up the bulk of this book do not appear in traditional, simple jewelry.  This stuff is ornate and overly-large and (dare I say it?) tacky.<br />I'm searching for something positive to say about this book, but about the only thing that comes to mind is that it gives you a good idea about how the professionals go about making jewelry from raw base metal and metallurgic powders.  I'm hoping a second reading of the design section will reveal something new to me, but the first 3/4 of the book discouraged me so much, I'm not sure I'm interested in reading it again.	2001-10-24
US	49585864	RV5NTSDUR0NR	0967164605	483777299	Strike It Rich on Ebay: The World's Largest Online Internet Auction Site	Books	1	18	18	N	N	If only Amazon allowed a zero star rating...	This book would get it.<br />What dreck!  If by some small chance, after you've read the other reviews posted here and are still thinking about buying this book, slap yourself and move along to the far better choices like eBay for Dummies.<br />The only one in danger of striking it rich with this book is the author, which is frightening.	2001-05-01
US	49585864	R3MB3IM4SCSCB5	1551667835	921681958	Blind Faith: The Miraculous Journey of Lula Hardaway, Stevie Wonder's Mother	Books	4	10	12	N	Y	A passable romantic suspense novel	I really wish I could endorse this book as heartily as everyone else who reviewed it, but the truth is, I found it difficult to read at times, and midway through, considered just not finishing it at all.<br />I do give the author big points for effort, and for a fairly intricate plot line.  It fell short for me in characterization and plausability.  I found Nick's remarkable change of heart regarding Kelly jarring, too easy, too quick and just not believable.  He literally did a 180 in his attitude about her in less than four pages - maybe if the specific situation that makes him change his mind would have happened later in the book after I got a chance to know him, it would have made more sense.  Up until that point, he had only appeared briefly and the only background we got was that Kelly had worked with him before.  I was still in the first chapter when I got the distinct impression that there was supposed to have been a book before this one (and maybe there was and I just missed it).<br />Again, my apologies to the readers who really liked this book, but there was just something off about the situations and characters here.  When I read the author biography, I thought maybe I had stumbled across what it was - the author is French, although it said she lives in New Jersey now.  It seemed to me like many, many passages in the book were similar to bad dubbing - I could see the characters doing something, but the words that were coming off of the page didn't match.  Kelly is by far the most interesting character in the book, but the writing seems so self-conscious that it was hard to see her personality come off the page, something that authors like J.D. Robb and Catherine Coulter do remarkably well in the same genre.  Nick seems like a caricature, sort of the handsome, funny, sweet cop with a heart of gold - not much of a foil for Kelly, in my opinion.<br />I may be too picky about my authors, but this just wasn't a good read for me, despite the interesting plot (which is what garnered this book a 4-star rating from me).  I just never cared much if Kelly and Nick got together.(which is what garnered this book a 4-star rating from me).  I just never cared much if Kelly and Nick got together.	2001-02-23
US	49585864	R2U09GBR0RCUDY	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	Outstanding tale of one writer's journey	I picked up this book expecting a mediocre &quot;how to&quot; manual from a favorite author, but ended up being pleasantly surprised.  &quot;On Writing&quot; is a thoughtful, intelligent look at one man's life and what he learned about writing along the way.<br />In the first part of the book, King does his best to examine the aspects of his life that helped shape him as a writer; in doing so, he reassures all of us would-be writers that we, too, have it in us.  I found myself laughing out loud at some of King's anecdotes - while I haven't kept up with some of his most recent work, reading &quot;On Writing&quot; reminded me of all the reasons I used to devour his books - a lovely, fluid style of writing that really does grip the reader, pull him in and drag him along on King's ride.  This book, while non-fiction, does the same thing.<br />When King relates the phone call where he learned of his advance for the paperback rights to &quot;Carrie&quot;, I could barely read fast enough - I can clearly see how this one small call was a turning point in his life and career, and I have to say, I feel like I know the author a little better after reading it.  If there is a single section in the book I would say is the best, this is it.<br />The &quot;how to&quot; section of the book is equally well-done, written in King's loose, just-chatting style.  Frankly, I wish I'd saved the money I've spent on other writing style books and found this one first, because I think I learned more in just three or four chapters from King than all these other self-help authors combined.  In a nutshell, King's philosophy of writing is like Nike's - just do it.  He offers a few basic tips (things you put in your figurative &quot;writer's toolbox&quot;) but spares the reader the kind of technical lectures you'll find in other similar books.<br />The final section of the book is dedicated to the accident King was involved in: how it changed his life and how writing (along with a smart paramedic and brilliant surgeon) saved it.  I was moved to tears in several areas - the pain King felt is palpable and he does an incredible job conveying it.  This section is a bit difficult to read, not because of the writing, but because you can so clearly see how hurt King was by the accident - I don't know that I've ever read an author who was better able to convey actual feeling and emotion through sentence structure.<br />If there are two constants in this book, they are King's love for his wife Tabitha and his love for writing.  This thoughtful, well-written memoir-slash-help book manages to introduce us to the man behind the bestsellers while helping the reader believe that if a normal guy like King can make it, maybe you can too.<br />A definite must buy for any aspiring writer or King fan.c and brilliant surgeon) saved it.  I was moved to tears in several areas - the pain King felt is palpable and he does an incredible job conveying it.  This section is a bit difficult to read, not because of the writing, but because you can so clearly see how hurt King was by the accident - I don't know that I've ever read an author who was better able to convey actual feeling and emotion through sentence structure.  <br />If there are two constants in this book, they are King's love for his wife Tabitha and his love for writing.  This thoughtful, well-written memoir-slash-help book manages to introduce us to the man behind the bestsellers while helping the reader believe that if a normal guy like King can make it, maybe you can too.<br />A definite must buy for any aspiring writer or King fan.	2001-02-05
US	49585864	RUKWB6Q1MCG04	0425176940	780656814	If I Had You (de Piaget Family)	Books	4	9	11	N	N	Sweet tale of true love	I have been sporadically reading Kurland's books for a while now, and have been getting them all out of order.  I just now finally got to Robin and Anne's tale, although I've already read all of the subsequent books - and overall, it was delightful to finally hear how the two found each other.<br />Kurland writes some of the sweetest romance stories I have ever read, and &quot;If I Had You&quot; is no exception.  Her characters are sublimely human, flawed with self-doubts and lots of angst, which should be hard to read but never really is.  I was completely caught up in the story here, wondering when Robin was finally going to accept his feelings for Anne and sort out his relationships with his family.  The plot synopsis written above the editorials really does sum up the storyline, which is a little sparse for the 433 pages it takes to tell it, which seems to be a Kurland signature.  Her books are incredibly character-driven and intricate, with the actual plot of the story coming in third, behind the characters and the historical details.<br />The tale is very engrossing and sweet, which you don't normally find in most of the historical romance books published these days.  It wasn't until after I finished the book that I thought about what I didn't like.  I agree wholeheartedly with the reviewer that gave the romance a &quot;G&quot; rating - there literally is no sex in this book.  It is alluded to, but the characters go from having one kiss and determining that they are going to consummate their relationship, to waking up the next morning and looking back fondly on the events of the night before.  It's a little strange, and after finishing the book, I think Kurland did her readers a disservice by not giving us at least a small glimpse into Robin and Anne's bedroom.  However beautifully written, this is a sanitized love story and leaving out that aspect of their relationship makes the characters seem a little untouchable.  While other romance books are full of highs and lows between the characters, this story really is full of middles.<br />Overall, this was an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon, and I don't regret buying the book.  I probably won't read it again, simply because I never really made an attachment with the characters beyond what was written, but I definitely recommend this book for anyone looking for romance that is sweet, tender and not particularly involving.s and lows between the characters, this story really is full of middles.<br />Overall, this was an enjoyable way to spend an afternoon, and I don't regret buying the book.  I probably won't read it again, simply because I never really made an attachment with the characters beyond what was written, but I definitely recommend this book for anyone looking for romance that is sweet, tender and not particularly involving.	2001-01-08
US	49585864	R2QL18PR4REXOU	0843944382	310074431	High Energy	Books	5	10	10	N	Y	Fun and sexy - what's not to like?	This was my first Dara Joy read, and I can't wait to pick up the next one.  High Energy was funny, sweet, tender and erotic all at once, and when I got done, all I could think of was &quot;MORE&quot;!<br />Zanita is sort of a stereotypical ditz - a little loopy, cute in a oddball kind of way, but not dumb.  I expected Tyber to be her exact opposite, and was delighted to find that he was just as nuts as Zanita.  Granted, the man is a rocket scientist, but Ms. Joy has gifted him with a mischevious nature, bizarre housemates and an incredibly sweet, romantic heart.  The book and characters really should not have worked in a romantic setting, but the author has really worked a miracle here.  I understood perfectly why Zanita appealed to Tyber and boy, did I understand why Tyber was so attractive to Zanita.<br />The subplot about Xavier LaLeche is mildly interesting, but the best parts of the book are the interplay between Zanita and Tyber.  The dialogue sparkles, the romance is beautiful and the lovemaking is hot, hot, hot without being too graphic.<br />When I finished the book, I found myself wishing Joy had carried the story for another couple hundred pages, because I had genuinely come to like Tyber and Zanita.  While it looks like Mills and Gregor will be having their own books, I would really, really like to see Tyber and Zanita have their own series.  If you're looking for a light romantic story that is surprisingly moving, I highly recommend this book.	2000-11-15
US	49585864	R38AZCTGHFFOK7	0671002031	910941653	Temptation	Books	2	58	77	N	N	This doesn't belong in the Romance genre	It goes against all of my instincts to give any Jude Devereaux book a less-than-stellar review, but I just can't recommend this book for the purpose it pretends to have.<br /><br />This is not a romantic book, at least not in the traditional man-woman way.  The storyline is enjoyable enough - an intelligent, attractive woman who is clearly ahead of her time meets a cranky, handsome man, who is clearly behind the times.  As a story of personal growth, the book works.  Temperence learns that in order to give, you have to take a little; James learns...well, I'm really not sure what James learned.  He seems strangely dishonorable, disdainful and a whole lot of other \\"dis\\"-es I can't come up with right now.  This is a book about Temperance and her journey, and James is almost an afterthought, more of a plot device to move Temperance along than anything else.  I've rarely read a book where I wasn't remotely interested in the main male character, but this has the dubious distinction of being the most memorable example of that so far.<br /><br />I could count on one hand the romantic or intimate scenes between the two characters, and even those felt stilted and awkward.  Temperence and James would make good friends (or heaven forbid, brother and sister), but lovers?  Not that I could see.  After reading the book twice, I still don't have a clue why either of them are supposedly attracted to the other.  There was no build-up, no feeling that these two had any passion for each other.  When they do get together, it's forgettable (apparently for them too), uncomfortable and unsettling and James is insulting.  It just felt wrong, for reasons I can't articulate.<br /><br />I agree wholeheartedly with the reviewer who felt the ending was jarring and unsatisfying - none of the characters act remotely like they did throughout the rest of the book.  I won't spoil it, but when I saw the date written on the last chapter, I actually said, \\"HUH?\\" out loud.  I still don't get it, and plan on dumping this book off at the nearest reseller to make sure I don't read it again by mistake.<br /><br />Buy this book if you are interested in one woman's experience in the early days of the women's equality movement, but save your money if you are looking for a passionate or tender romance with characters you know are destined to be together.  You won't find it here.f at the nearest reseller to make sure I don't read it again by mistake.    Buy this book if you are interested in one woman's experience in the early days of the women's equality movement, but save your money if you are looking for a passionate or tender romance with characters you know are destined to be together.  You won't find it here.	2000-11-14
US	49585864	R2PZGHIFS239QF	0505523892	406492827	Dark Magic (The Carpathians (Dark) Series, Book 4)	Books	5	111	116	N	N	A &quot;magical&quot; story	I had the same feelings as Ketsia as I picked up this book.  All of the previous books were so wonderful, but I had been waiting for Gregori's story and was really afraid Ms. Feehan would not be able to pull it off.  Boy, was I wrong!<br />First things first - don't read this book if you are expecting a vampire tale a la Ann Rice or even Amanda Ashley - there are elements both of those types of stories in Feehan's books, but they really are their own genre.  Vampire purists will not enjoy these stories, but if you like a book heavy on romance and intimacy, with a paranormal twist, you'll absolutely love Feehan.  As purely escapist fiction, I rank the Dark series at the top of my list!  Very much like J.D. Robb's Death series, these are characters who are larger than life and stories that will have you reading the books over and over.<br />I won't summarize the storyline, because the book reviews have already done it, and the overall plotline really isn't what makes these books anyway.  The interplay between Gregori and Savannah is the focus, as each comes to terms with living in the other's world.  Gregori rivals Robb's Rourke as male perfection - no woman (or reader) could resist either of them, and it's so moving to read of him finally discovering his emotions again; Savannah is one of Feehan's better heroines, feisty and strong, much like her mother Raven.<br />If you decide to read this series, it really does help to begin with the first book, Dark Prince, and work your way through them in order (Dark Gold was my least favorite, and pretty much could be skipped).  It builds familiarity with the characters, and in each of the books you'll find glimpses of all the Carpathians that help flesh out the characters - when you do finally get to Gregori's story, it will be much sweeter for having met him in earlier books.<br />I'm already anxiously awaiting Julian's story in November (the first chapter hints that maybe his lifemate is someone very close to Gregori), and hope Feehan continues the series for a long time.and hope Feehan continues the series for a long time.	2000-10-31
US	49585864	RHYAD5GIA4QVP	078601153X	715744091	Blood of my Blood (Vampire Legacy, #4)	Books	1	6	9	N	N	Save your money	I have been avidly searching for books in the vampire genre for a while, and when I stumbled across this one, I decided to buy it on the basis of the reviews I saw here.  It was the worst waste of [money] I've ever seen.  Unless you've read and enjoyed the other books in the series and have some attachment to the Deirdre and Matt characters, I cannot imagine anyone thinking this was a good book.<br />The first person narrative is always a little hard to pull off, but in this case, it was done excruciatingly poorly.  Taylor jumped from Lily's to Deirdre's perspectives at random, and in every single case, I needed to be several pages into the narrative to know which character I was supposedly reading about, which I hope was an intentional writer's trick to make the reader think Lily and Deirdre were alike; if not, then I hope Taylor finds a better editor.  I didn't have any idea if I was supposed to like any of these characters or not; we're apparently supposed to hate Deirdre for her sins (and she is immensely unlikeable in every scene in this book), but then suddenly the author seems to be trying to tell us Lily is the villain.  Matt is completely an afterthought (and other than a strange plot twist at the end, completely useless and nearly unmentioned), and based on this story alone, I didn't see any reason Deirdre was supposed to be so in love with him, nor why the description on the back of the book seemed to hint that he would somehow be involved with Lily.  Deirdre's &quot;Cat&quot; alter-ego was so confusing, eventually I skipped over every reference, trying my hardest just to reach the end of the book with my sanity intact.  Don't bother getting attached to any of the sub-characters; they are either killed off, vanish abruptly never to be mentioned again or are used strictly as a plot device and never fleshed out.<br />The story just dragged on and on..I think this might have been a good idea for a magazine-length piece, but it doesn't work at all as a full novel.  The ending is incredibly bizarre; after all the figurative foot-dragging of the plot line, the ending was sudden, jarring and unsatisfying, coming literally out of nowhere then just leaving the reader hanging.  Supposedly the way it ended we'll be seeing another sequel, maybe from the Victor/Lily angle, but this is definitely a series I will never buy from again.<br />As I said in the beginning, if you have some strong attachment to the Deirdre and Matt characters from previous books, maybe this will make some sense to you, but for a first time read, I can't stress strongly enough how much I wish I had just picked up any other book.ovel.  The ending is incredibly bizarre; after all the figurative foot-dragging of the plot line, the ending was sudden, jarring and unsatisfying, coming literally out of nowhere then just leaving the reader hanging.  Supposedly the way it ended we'll be seeing another sequel, maybe from the Victor/Lily angle, but this is definitely a series I will never buy from again.<br />As I said in the beginning, if you have some strong attachment to the Deirdre and Matt characters from previous books, maybe this will make some sense to you, but for a first time read, I can't stress strongly enough how much I wish I had just picked up any other book.	2000-10-25
US	49585864	R2Q6MLZUAWCOQR	0399146253	109258524	The Last Precinct (A Scarpetta Novel)	Books	3	77	81	N	N	A new Kay Scarpetta	By the time I had read The Last Precinct, I had already seen Patricia Cornwell give several interviews about it, so I had a certain expectation about what kind of book this would be.  For the most part, her descriptions were accurate, which is unfortunate.<br />From the beginning, this is a completely different Kay Scarpetta than we've read about before.  Cornwell claimed in her interviews that this could be a stand-alone book, that it wasn't necessary to read the previous books to understand this one, but I disagree strongly.  It literally picks up where the last one left off, and if you didn't read Black Notice, chances are you won't have a clue what's going on.  There are half-hearted attempts to bring the reader up to speed on the various characters, but they seem forced and uncomfortable.<br />The storyline is much the same as in previous books, despite Cornwell's assertion that this is the first time we see Kay in professional jeopardy.  There's a bad guy, Kay gets personally involved, Lucy goes off on some weird tangent, Kay's professional judgement is called into question..the bare bones of this story are the same as the others.  What bothered me most about this book was the extremely sudden and startling change in the way we see Kay, and through her, all the other characters.  She suddenly analyzes every thought, every emotion; we see all of the characters in a new light, and it is almost without exception, unflattering.  Suddenly we are literally forced to consider Kay's sexual orientation, Marino's weird attraction to her; even the deceased Benton is re-examined and somehow comes off looking the worse for it.<br />Cornwell said in the interviews I saw that she doesn't model Kay after herself, but there are several aspects of this book that almost feel voyeuristic.  The forensic and investigational parts of the book almost seem like an afterthought.  The main purpose of this entry in the Scarpetta series seems mainly to explore her psyche; at the end of it all, I've lost my respect for the character.<br />I had a hard time deciding how many stars to give this book.  Taken alone, simply judging this book's writing style, plot and character development, I would have given it 4 stars; as part of the Scarpetta series, comparing it to past books, I would have rated this one a 2, so I split the difference and gave it a 3.  Fans of the first books in the Scarpetta series who were upset after Black Notice probably won't be any more thrilled with this entry; fans that haven't read the first few books in the series and liked Black Notice probably would find this an interesting follow-up.it all, I've lost my respect for the character.<br />I had a hard time deciding how many stars to give this book.  Taken alone, simply judging this book's writing style, plot and character development, I would have given it 4 stars; as part of the Scarpetta series, comparing it to past books, I would have rated this one a 2, so I split the difference and gave it a 3.  Fans of the first books in the Scarpetta series who were upset after Black Notice probably won't be any more thrilled with this entry; fans that haven't read the first few books in the series and liked Black Notice probably would find this an interesting follow-up.	2000-10-18
US	49585864	R19UI9ZLB3LSNW	0373484100	216534554	Night Tales: Night Shift/ Night Shadow/ Nightshade/ Night Smoke	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A solid Roberts outing	I too am a huge fan of the J.D. Robb &quot;in Death&quot; series with Lieutenant Eve Dallas and her husband Roarke.  I haven't read much of the author's &quot;other&quot; works as Nora Roberts, but given the reviews saying this was quite similar to the Robb books, I gave it a try.<br />I have to agree with Georgia's review - if it were possible to plagiarize oneself, Roberts has done it with these characters.  That's not a bad thing, given how wonderful Eve and Roarke are, but these stories left me wanting more.  Much like candy, I gobbled them up but was left unsatisfied at the end.  The characters are very much Eve and Roarke-like, down to the coffee addiction, attitudes and habits, although to her credit, none of the characters physically resemble Eve and Roarke.  The storylines are just the right length for these kinds of romance novels, not too long, but I would have loved to see longer versions of Deborah and Gage's story and Thea and Colt's.<br />For anyone who hasn't read the Robb books, these are an excellent introduction - you'll get a little taste of the kinds of characters you can expect and a lighter version of the storylines.  To belabor the food analogy, these are a great appetizer - but for a real meal, skip to the Robb series, from the beginning.	2000-09-25
US	49585864	R1SGMJ01HF73F5	0399146180	824996605	McNally's Folly: An Archy McNally Novel	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lardo gets points for effort, but falls flat	I was thrilled to see the new McNally book, not realizing that Lawrence  Sanders had passed away and missing the &quot;Vincent Lardo&quot; at the  bottom.  I regret missing it, because when I began the book, it took me all  of two paragraphs to realize something was amiss, and it was actually an  effort for me to keep reading.<br />I did read the book through, wanting to  give Lardo a chance with a character and style that would be difficult for  any author to pull off.  Lardo tries hard to capture Archie's sparkling wit  and wardrobe, but just can't quite manage it.  It is definitely a case of  comparing apples and oranges, and while Lardo truly did an admirable job  under the circumstances, for me it was a painful read.  I was constantly  aware that Sanders was not the author, and the few flourishes of foppism  that Lardo injected seemed stilted and awkward to me.  The storyline was  only so-so, which was also the case with Sanders' McNally, but it was just  more obvious this time around.<br />I'm not saying this is a bad book in any  way, but readers expecting Sanders' trademark style will be sorely  disappointed.  I wish I had read the cover more carefully before buying  this book.  Fans purchasing this book should be aware that it is NOT  Sanders' McNally.	2000-09-03
