US	49588959	R1LRTC50VFREZ	0743488458	987212414	Cally's War (Posleen War Series #4)	Books	4	10	12	N	N	A new direction for the Posleenverse	Well, gosh.  I've never heard carnography used as a word. <br /> <br />Cally's War gives us a glimpse of post-Posleen War Earth, and into the soul of Cally O'Neal, now the Bane Shidhe's top assassin; she's so bad, she can take hours and hours of torture, keeping her cool, until she gets a miniscule chance and turns the table on her torturers. <br /> <br />But, she's lonely.  And that leads into a whole lot of fun and interesting things. <br /> <br />On the whole, I enjoyed Cally's War.  I don't typically enjoy spy or romance novels (I read the Anita Blake books for the monster-slaying!), but this was pretty good.  The most effective part, I thought, was the view we're given of American society after the war; bounty hunters make their living off of Posleen heads, while armed convoys worth of the Car Wars universe move between cities, and the Darhel rule the roost through corrupted public officials.  They're opposed only by the Bane Shidhe, who move through the shadows in their valiant fight for...something that isn't Darhel domination. <br /> <br />There were two parts to this book I didn't really like.  No, not the Vast Quantities of Sex.  First, the ambush of one of the Bane Shidhe ops teams wasn't written very well; not only was it confusing, but it didn't really mean that much, since we didn't quite know the characters and didn't have an attachment to them (Cally's team, of course, we do, if you've read the Posleen Wars tri/quadrology).  Second, I wasn't particularly thrilled by having the last act take place on Titan Base.  Sure, I understand why; after all, there has to be SOME challenge to the task.  However, really, Titan Base is boring, and I missed seeing the future Earth. <br /> <br />If you're looking for Desperate Last Stands against swarms of opponents, this is absolutely not it.  However, even fans of carnographic settings like the Aldenata universe or the Starfire universe can like this novel.  I did, after all.	2005-06-01
US	49588959	RBV57HFP9XJ4S	0786932783	255827845	Races of Stone (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Relief of Stone	I've always liked dwarves.  There've been a great many d20 racial splatbooks, few of which I've liked, and the only one I own is for dwarves.  Now, WotC has decided to do its own racial splatbooks, and the first effort, detailing dwarves, gnomes, and a brand-new race, the goliaths, is actually a very good product. <br /> <br />One of the striking differences between Races of Stone and, say, the Planar Handbook, is that the primary focus of this product is what's known as \\"fluff\\"; i.e., information that is not strictly related to rules, but that details things like history, mannerisms, behavior, etc.  For example, dwarves make a great variety of their clothes from root fibers!  This has no real game effect, but it's nice information to have.  There are sections for each race in this book, with the goliath section being a tad longer, since they're new to Races of Stone. <br /> <br />Speaking of goliaths, they're a primitive nomadic mountain-dwelling race; they're almost like evolved apes.  They're very competitive, and quite strong.  Their society is detailed in a lot of detail, and there are rules aspects that are non-obvious; despite having a Dex penalty, for example, they have a great fondness for ranged weapons. <br /> <br />Also included are variant races...chaos and whisper gnomes, dream dwarves, stonechildren, and feral garguns (who're relatives of the goliaths that live in even more unpleasant circumstances). <br /> <br />However, there is a very nice proportion of game mechanics goodness to be found (this is known colloquially as \\"crunch\\").  There are many new feats that are appropriate for the given races, new equipment (like exotic armors!), racial substitution levels (where you get an alternate class ability in place of a standard one, but only if you qualify by your race or other factors), and quite a few nifty prestige classes.  There are a few spells and magic items (like forges that let non-casters create magic items, with some severe limitations), too.  There are even adventure seeds that are more appropriate for the races of stone, as well. <br /> <br />Quite possibly the best new thing is that they don't assume you just have the Player's Handbook, as there is support for the Expanded Psionics Handbook, in the form of additional psionic feats and powers!  This is very new, and very welcome, to boot. <br /> <br />I'm quite pleased with Races of Stone.  It certainly washes out the bad taste of certain previous releases.  I wholeheartedly recommend it.	2004-08-30
US	49588959	RKNI46ARGPS3L	0786932813	338074125	Miniatures Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons Supplement)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Icing on the Cake!	I like this book far too much for my own good, and I don't even play the miniatures game.    Why do I have it, then?  Outside of a desire for completeness?    Well, about one quarter of the book is filled with useful goodies for D&D itself.  There are four new core classes, all but one of which are spontaneous casters.  There's the Favored Soul (a spontaneous divine caster with ALL GOOD SAVES), the Healer (which, predictably, specializes in healing...it's been referred to as the \\"girlfriend class\\", and even gets a unicorn companion!), and the Warmage (who throws damage spells like they're going out of style).  There's also the Marshal, which helps the other party members do their jobs better.    The prestige classes are very good, too.  In fact, the real reason I'm so in love with this book is the Skullclan Hunter, which is a rogue prestige class that can sneak attack undead.  This is wonderful, as normally undead are immune to sneak attacks.  The SkH is still useful, too, outside of that specialty.  Other notable classes are the unfortunately-named Tactical Soldier (great for people who thrive on teamwork, and wonderful for your cohort to go in), Havoc Mage (a short PrC that lets you cast in armor and at the same time you make an attack), the Warchief (leading tribes of humanoids, making them tougher and getting more charismatic), and the Warhulk.  The latter is also quite fun; it's for Large and bigger creatures, has NO Base Attack accumulation, but gets +2 Strength/level and nifty special attacks that're modeled after Sauron's attacks from the Fellowship of the Ring prologue.  Sadly, it's easily abused, but I like that sort of stuff anyway.    The new feats are quite nice, letting your re-roll initiative, add damage when you charge, and giving you extra five-foot steps.  A new concept is included in the magic section, the swift action, which is like a free action, in that it doesn't interfere with other actions in the turn, but you can only do one/turn.  The spells are generally nice; Snake's Swiftness, which lets the target make an attack, is exceedingly useful.  Magic items are also pretty neat, though some have an annoying \\"wear this for 24 hours before it works\\" limit, which makes no sense on a helmet.  And, finally, the monsters are cool; this includes the Aspect, which is a weak avatar of a deity, and good for fighting.    Now, bear in mind that the above fills the first quarter of the book.  The rest of the book is devoted to the D&D collectible miniatures game, which I don't play, but it's apparently fairly popular.  Also, the concept art and photos of miniatures are sprinkled throughout the book, which might make you read the miniatures section anyway.    I am quite happy with this book.  Despite the gaming material being only a quarter of the book, it's good enough that I believe it's worth it.  The miniatures stuff is just icing on the cake for me.	2004-08-12
US	49588959	RHZD9FGHUJ2DX	0786934298	223801535	Planar Handbook (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	73	84	N	N	Wasted Potential	So, we have a book intended primarily for players to experience the planes.  What do we get? <br /> <br />One of the cruddiest books that WotC has ever put out, that's what. <br /> <br />Allow me to explain...it's not ALL bad.  The new weapons and magic items are nice.  There are new monsters, many of which are intended to transport players through the planes.  Some of the prestige classes are interesting...the Ardent Dilettante itself is VERY creative, and makes sense for what it's supposed to do.  Also, the substitution levels are neat; the idea is that you can trade out a certain level of a class for an alternate version with different benefits.  It's a very nice idea, and will probably be used again.  After all, what rogue wouldn't want to switch out a +1 bonus to Reflex saves vs. traps to be able to sense gates and teleports within 30 feet? <br /> <br />However, there are things that are unpleasant to downright stupid.  For example...we see the aasimar and tiefling, AGAIN.  This is their third appearance (in Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting and the 3.5 Monster Manual), and this really doesn't add anything.  At least the Bariaur has been altered, and is different...but still, reprints get annoying.  Also, the feats, in general, are horrendously boring.  I can't see any reason to take any of the feats presented. <br /> <br />And, last but not least, you have the Planar Touchstones.  I'll admit, it was a nice idea to give people a reason to go plane-hopping.  Personally, I'd think being able to fight new and different monsters and get different sorts of treasure would be reason enough, but hey.  However...the idea that going to a place gives you a nifty power is kind of, um, silly.  Not only that, but they waste 33 pages on this.  They make more sense as web enhancements than as a list of stuff that will most likely not get used.  Those 33 pages could have been used for more prestige classes, more feats, more monsters, more items, or, heck, even more descriptionon planar cities, and would be more all-around useful.  This is the what absolutely kills this book for me. <br /> <br />I'm not...quite...sorry I bought this, but if I could clip out the 33 pages of the touchstones and get my money back, I would.  2.5 stars, rounding up out of misplaced generosity.	2004-07-26
US	49588959	R21P6CN7VWUYW8	0786928808	268019209	Complete Warrior (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	40	42	N	N	A noticeable improvement, but...	The Complete series is WotC's new line of D&amp;D 3.5 splatbooks (books devoted to a certain class or group).  However, this line is more for concept rather than class; the Complete Warrior is not just for fighters and monks, since they have new combat options for everyone (even new spells).<br />There are three new core classes; the Hexblade, which looks okay but really does stink (its powers are too short in duration to be useful), the Samurai, who's more of a two-weapon intimidating fighter, and the Swashbuckler, who's a bouncy light fighter.  There are also a LOT of prestige classes, many of which are reprints from previous books or Dragon magazines.<br />Unfortunately, the reprints, while sometimes necessary, are really kind of bland, and often lower the power level from previous incarnations.  The new prestige classes, though, are usually pretty cool.<br />There are also a great many new and revised feats, and the same holds true; the revised feats pale in comparison to their previous versions, while the new feats are pretty good.  Especially welcome are the Tactical feats, which allow the characters to set up situations and gain certain bonuses.  For example, Elusive Target (my favorite) lets you avoid bonus damage from Power Attack from your dodge target, while Giantbane lets you emulate a certain elven archer's feats of climbing onto larger opponents.  There are also weapon style feats, which seem to be mostly to encourage suboptimal weapon use.  Neat in theory, but the return on investment isn't that great.<br />There are a few magic items, though not nearly as many weapon/armor types as one would think.  There are also a few spells, and a few new domains for the included warrior-only pantheon.  Advice is given for running a warrior-heavy campaign, and also on using warfare and a mercenary setting.  Finally, more rules for epic play are included, including new and revised epic feats.<br />I'm not sorry I bought this.  However, I'm not nearly as excited about it as I thought I would be.  It's nice, and useful, but not very cool.  I'd be tempted to give it three stars, but the tactical feats (again, the coolest thing in here) make me raise it to four stars.	2004-06-19
US	49588959	R1YTDJO16PRS28	0786933011	907482724	Expanded Psionics Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	The Sum Totality of D&amp;D's Psionic Might!	So, back in 2001, WotC released the Psionics Handbook, which was the D&amp;D Third Edition manual on psionics.  It was reasonably good; I, personally enjoyed it.  However, with the revision to D&amp;D 3.5, and several years of play, it became apparent that the psionics rules need revision.  Thus, we have the Expanded Psionics Handbook (often acronymed XPH).<br />And I like it.<br />This expansion/revision changes quite a bit, and adds, too.  Gone are the psions who had to have high scores in every attribute.  Psychic warriors make more sense now, and the soulknife was expanded to a core (20-level) class, which is rather nifty.<br />Powers are different, too.  Psionic combat is GONE, and good riddance.  Instead, the combat modes have been rebuilt as powers and seeded into the power list.  The number of powers needed has dwindled, as many powers now scale based on the resources you devote to them.  For example, many direct damage powers allow you to spend more power points to increase the damage inflicted.  Psionic characters are now the kings of flexibility, and leave sorcerers sitting in the dust.<br />There are many more prestige classes, too.  I rather like the elocator, which floats off the ground and specializes in movement, as well as the Pyrokineticist, which does what you might expect; one of their entry requirements is &quot;Must have set a building on fire just to watch it burn.&quot;<br />There are many more psionic and even regular feats in here.  One of the new limiting factors is psionic focus, which is used as a replacement for the minimum PSP balance (which discouraged people from using their resources).  Some feats require you to keep this focus to use their benefits, and others require you to expend it.  It's a neat feat, and gives the player a lot of power, tempered with the need to use it wisely.<br />Psionic items are mostly the same, though there are a few updates.  Amusingly enough, psionic weapons do breach n/magic DR, though that's easy enough to change if you like.  They've revised and expanded the creatures.  I like the Unbodied, a race of incorporeal shapeshifting telepathic brains.<br />I'm getting a lot of use out of this book, and I highly recommend it.	2004-06-19
US	49588959	R1EONWFIB6BQ4R	0786931361	208048527	Book of Exalted Deeds (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	So, you're on a mission from Heaven?  Step right this way...	Finally, we have something to stick in the Demon Princes' craw.<br />The Book of Exalted Deeds (commonly acronymed BoED) is the counterpart to the Book of Vile Darkness.  Named after a nifty artifact in the game, this greatly-welcomed tome brings you the ability to play, well, &quot;goody little two-shoes!&quot;<br />The book is set up rather like Book of Vile Darkness, with sections I'll title Discussion, Stuff, Feats, Prestige Classes, Magic Stuff, Big Huge Celestials, and (Mostly) Friendly Monsters.<br />The Discussion section talks about how being Good (not good) works, and how it can expand your enjoyment of the game.  This includes ethics and examples of heroic types.  Stuff includes relics, Ravages and Afflictions (Evil-targeted poisons and diseases), and some alternate rules, including the explanations for the Vow of Poverty, Vow of Nonviolence, and Words of Creation feats.<br />Speaking of feats, there are quite a few here, some generally useful and then one or two per class.  There really need to be more, for reasons I'll get to in a second.  This has some quite nifty things, like Sacred Strike (sneak attacks rise from xd6 to xd8 versus evil creatures) and Sanctify Martial Strike (gives extra damage against evil creatures, and allows your weapon to breach n/good damage reduction).  These are often necessary to the Prestige Classes, many of which are built on one or two of these feats as prerequisites.  I rather liked the Slayer of Domiel (a LG assassin-type...no, really), the Initiate of Pistis Sophia (Exalted monk), and the Fist of Raziel (uber-smiting paladin-cleric).<br />The Magic Stuff includes quite a few new spells and domains, though some are revised (like Glory).  This book introduces the Sanctified spell, which has somewhat greater effects for its slot, but at the cost of some sacrifice from the character (usually ability damage or XP).  There are nifty new magic items, which can be a tad problematic; one, the Retributive Amulet, reduces damage by half and returns that half to the attacker as damage, which, at 56,000 gp, is a bit cheap for the effect.  However, these are generally nice items.<br />(Re-)Introduced here are the Higher Celestials, the Good counterparts to the Archdevils and Demon Princes.  You probably won't ever see them, and they don't accept worshippers, but they do have small followings (sort of like saints in the Church).  Also included are quite a few new and revised celestials, most of whom appeared last in the Planescape setting, like the Hollyphant!<br />On the whole, I enjoyed the heck out of this.  There are a few things that could make it better, like more Exalted feats; only having one or two per class means that you will, eventually, run out if you take the Vow of Poverty feat (which grants bonus Exalted feats every other level).  Feat chains built for each class would be very nice, indeed; some higher-level ones would be most welcome, especially if they supported multiclassing in their requirements.	2004-06-19
US	49588959	R2ZB1SEV55ZKCV	0932813526	541651432	Atlantis in America: Navigators of the Ancient World	Books	3	20	24	N	N	Flawed, Yet Serviceable	I'm a sucker for &quot;Pre-Ice Age Civilizations&quot; books, and have been ever since discovering Graham Hancock.  I think the idea is just incredibly cool, especially since there's more and more evidence surfacing that the idea isn't just a glean in a madman's eye.  And, so, when I found this book in a used bookstore, I figured I'd make up the difference in my trade-ins with it.<br />Well, this is okay.  Not great (like, say, Graham Hancock's Underworld), but okay.  Why?<br />The authors kind of turned me off with their railing at the Inquisition and how the Roman Catholic Church purposefully molded the views of Western Civilization.  They write in such a way that I continually expect the next sentence to say &quot;...and I believe the Church knew and surpressed this information!&quot;, but they don't, possibly because they'd have no way of proving that.<br />Also, the authors are guilty of a crime of which they accuse mainstream archaeologists:  Drawing conclusions on too little evidence.  They state that the pre-Deluge Atlantis was a place of peace and contentment, and that the fact that the Mayan and Aztec cities weren't walled proved this.  Actually, that just proves they didn't have walls; the Maya and (especially) the Aztec are known to have practiced limited and ritualistic warfare, and it'd be folly to assume that was just an invention of the Aztec.  However, the authors state as much.  Also, we know that violence is intrinsic to human nature, so unless Atlantis and its colonies *and* those cultures it came in contact with were all fabulously wealthy, someone would've been fighting someone.<br />Finally, they get entirely too worked up about the supposed ancient Bronze Age trade routes across the Atlantic, and shipping tin and copper to the Mediterranean.  Contrary to what they say, copper and tin are not THAT rare in the Mediterranean hinterlands.  Were the Native Americans exporting copper and tin to the Phoenicians, SURELY they would have made tools outof it, as it's demonstrably superior to using stone tools in most cases.  That they didn't suggests their trade theory is a bit overblown.  Even if the Phoenicians were only trading for the raw materials, surely the Natives would've been suspicious of what these could be used for!<br />Don't get me wrong; it's a nice fun book, and they do bring a lot of reasonably hard data (mostly in the form of stone navigational aids and archaeological dating), but they rely entirely too much on supposition to get more than 3 stars.	2004-06-11
US	49588959	RJEQBBS7EKNHS	0786928840	893358208	Draconomicon: The Book of Dragons (Dungeons & Dragons)	Books	4	84	87	N	N	Oooo...dragons...	Long-time D&amp;D players will note that this is the second Draconomicon, the first being a AD&amp;D 2nd Edition softcover that covered dragons in nowhere near the detail that this does.<br />This version of Draconomicon goes into great gobs of detail about D&amp;D dragons...their life, death, anatomy, and psychology.  They also discuss how dragons can fit into a campaign; not only as opponents, but as NPCs, cohorts, or even PCs.<br />There are also quite a few new dragon-centered feats, skills, magic items, spells, and prestige classes, both for dragons themselves and for the mortals who cower in terror/awe around them.  I personally like the Initiate of the Draconic Mysteries, a monk-themed class that starts to hit REALLY HARD as you go up in level.  Some material has been reprinted, such as epic feats from the Epic-Level Handbook.<br />There are also quite a few new monsters in this...while the vast majority are of the Dragon type, or dragon-shaped, there are golems and undead, as well as one irritating little vermin.  You'll also get to enjoy sample hoards, to get an idea of what that dragon might normally have in its bed and or/couch.  Finally, in the back, you'll find stat blocks and write-ups for 120 separate dragons...10 kinds of dragon (all the chromatics and metallics) and 12 age categories.  Each of these can serve as an opponent, a client, or an ally, or sometimes all three.<br />In summation, this is an incredibly detailed source on dragons, and it's quite nice.  Both DMs and players can use it.  However, if you don't like or use dragons much, don't bother, and stea... borrow a friend's copy.	2003-11-17
US	49588959	R1XPKY9OEXM2DS	078692649X	262809047	Arms and Equipment Guide (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Accessory)	Books	4	48	53	N	N	It's like Nicholas the Gift-Giver left his sleigh!	I love equipment books.  They give you more options, more TOYS to play with.  Properly done, they're great for any game.<br />This is fairly well done, too.<br />Arms and Equipment Guide (A&EG) descends from a long line of D&D equipment/specialized rule books, such as Aurora's Whole Realms catalog, Of Ships & Sea, and, of course, the AD&D2 Arms and Equipment Guide.  It also collects a lot of things that have appeared in print in other supplements, like weapons from Sword & Fist and magical vehicle equipment from Dragon magazine; while you're (possibly) paying for the same thing twice, you get it all in one place, which is quite handy.<br />If you're looking for anything that can be remotely construed as a possession, this is for you.  There are new weapons, new armors (and materials for each), new adventuring gear, detailed rules for mounts, hirelings, and vehicles, and the required magic item section...at 56 pages, the longest section of this 160-page hardcover.<br />The magic item section has elicited most of the comment.  There are a bevy of new special weapons, the special properties of which are easily reverse-engineered for use elsewhere.  There are a lot of new wondrous items, rods, and rings as well, many of which are rather cheap for what they do.  And, of course, you can also now add armor enhancements to your Bracers of Armor, which will be loved by rogues and wizards everywhere.  New rules for creating intelligent magic items are included, which have long been needed.  Many named intelligent items (such as Black-razor) are included, and there are a few new artifacts (like the Regaliae of Good and Neutrality).<br />In summation, really, it's a nice, nifty book.  Just take the things in it with a grain of salt, and get your DM's final say before you make your paired Ringweapons so you can wear four rings at once.	2003-03-28
US	49588959	R337X8C0YJUKWA	0786926481	843013916	Savage Species: Playing Monstrous Characters (Dungeons & Dragons Supplement)	Books	5	69	71	N	N	Rrrargh!  Umber Hulk SMASH!!!	And that's something you'll never, ever have heard a PC utter before, but you might now.<br />Savage Species is, as the notes say, the D&D 3e sourcebook on playing monster characters.  Not necessarily hideously evil psychopaths (that's where Book of Vile Darkness comes in), but non-standard races...anything from the bugbear up to a stone giant.<br />Monster PCs have two things to concern themselves about...hit dice (i.e. how many hit dice they naturally start with) and level adjustment (having abilities that are worth a class level or two on their own).  For example, our umber hulk friend has eight hit dice and a level adjustment of +6, for an ECL of 14...so an umber hulk is theoretically equivalent to a 14th-level Player's Handbook character.<br />So, the authors go through and list a chart of almost every existing monster in the game that has an ECL of 20 or below, along with official level adjustments for templates (lycanthrope, celestial, half-dragon, etc.)  They also discuss letting a player start as a first-level monster, which must get to its base statistics before multiclassing...there's no using a minotaur's base stats at 1 HD, because they don't get them until they reach their final hit die.  There's a 52-page appendix of sample monsters' ECL broken out into class levels, which is fairly nice.<br />You'll also find feats suited to monsters, new prestige classes, new gear, a lot of new templates (my favorite's Gelatinous...a semi-ooze creature), and new and/or reprinted creatures, including a long list of anthropomorphic races, such as dog-men and wolverine-people, the desmodu and loxo from MM2, and the half-ogre starting race.  There are also rules for transforming characters between races and adding templates.<br />Something like this has been needed for a long time.  Not only does it follow in the footsteps of AD&D2's Complete Book of Humanoids, but it answers rules questions that have popped up ever since the first PC got infected by lycanthropy.  Somecreatures will be less-playable than others, simply because their level adjustment is so high that they won't have the hit points to survive combat at their ECL.  And there are a few questions, too...for dragons, do they require XP to gain hit dice, since they grow by aging?  After all, 10 years can go by in a game fairly quickly, and that young dragon can become a juvenile and get stat and HD bonuses...<br />This is a great supplement, and I highly recommend it.  It's probably most useful if you're going to start a new game, but it'll be useful for everybody at some point.	2003-02-17
US	49588959	RTD604H6SW4XB	0972359931	71815644	Ultramodern Firearms (d20 Modern Roleplaying)	Books	4	24	28	N	N	Guns, guns, guns!	I do have to make a disclaimer that I don't own the d20 version of this book.  That's because I don't need it; I have the old Millenium's End version, and I don't personally see the need to buy a new version with d20 stats in it.<br />However, if I didn't have the old version, I'd've had this the day it came out.<br />The primary utility to this book is that it lists vast quantities of modern firearms, and PROVIDES PICTURES OF THEM.  This is very important; everybody knows what an AK-47 and an M-16 look like, but if I don't know what a Sig-Sauer P226 looks like, how can I visualize my character using it?  Better instead to use a Glock (which, again, is seen fairly often in movies), or for the truly hardcore, a Desert Eagle .50AE, one of the largest handguns in production today.<br />It helps to also familiarize people with lesser-known guns.  One of my favorites would be the Calico series (a pistol and a SMG), which look seriously cool; they've got a big helical magazine on the back of the gun, that just looks really, really cool.<br />I only have two quibbles.  First, it's kind of expensive for its list price; a lot of the artwork is left over from the original Millenium's End product, and I'm not sure I'd want it in hardcover.  Then again, gun books consistently get looked at more than a lot of other supplements, so extra durability would be a plus.<br />Second, the d20 stats are kind of...lame.  The original Millenium's End system has a lot more graininess than d20 does, so some weapons could be incrementally better than others, while in d20 there isn't enough difference to justify one being better.  This version's stat lines are really almost identical to each other, which is kind of boring.<br />Really, most stats probably don't even need to be in there; a page explaining damage per caliber (9mm = 2d6, for example) and standard range increments would handle most of what was required, and note in with the individual entry what would be different.<br />Note thatthis is NOT compatible with Spycraft; weapons in that game do somewhat less damage than the equivalent d20 Modern weapon.  If you don't intend to use d20 Modern, but do intend to use Spycraft, you'll want the Modern Arms Guide for Spycraft, which is in itself quite nifty.<br />All in all, if I didn't have the first version, I'd pick this up with only a little bit of hesitation.	2003-02-07
US	49588959	R82E3V1JR54HU	0952614766	943180751	The Biggest Secret: The Book That Will Change the World (Updated Second Edition)	Books	2	10	22	N	N	A remarkably deep subject...	Well...<br />This was an interesting read.<br />Mr. Icke states that the world is controlled by a group of extradimensional reptilians (\\"Reptoids\\" has been used, and I'll use it here, since it sounds cool), through their possession and domination of certain European aristocratic, easily possessed bloodlines.  They amass power for the purpose of keeping themselves happy and keeping us (i.e. the \\"people\\") down.  Among their horrendous activities are starting wars by manipulating the instruments of international finance, human sacrifice with purposefully-bred children, pedophilia, drug running, and other sorts of things.  They killed Diana, Princess of Wales, in a sacrifice because she was too nice.  Oh, and the Reptoids are chronically unloved, so, by loving them, we can stop them from being mean.<br />There, that's the 115-word synopsis of about 500-plus poorly-written and poorly-edited pages, full of snide remarks (E-lizard-birth is a prime example...), innuendos, defense that he is not, in fact, an anti-Semite, and spurious reasoning.  After all, when the world is dominated so thoroughly by a pack of Reptoids, taking along some French gendarmerie as escorts during Diana's ride home that night would only serve to make the NWO choose another tactic, like exploding a tanker truck.<br />Is the world controlled by a pack of Reptoids?  Maybe.  I don't get enough from Mr. Icke to make me think that, though.  His writing style leaves a lot to be desired, and I'm just generally unimpressed.  It does make dandy fiction, though, and would be quite useful in a modern-day role-playing game (like d20 Modern).	2003-02-06
US	49588959	R3SYO1DMM53WYP	0786926643	729011611	The Wheel of Time: Prophecies of the Dragon	Books	2	25	31	N	N	One of the poorest adventures I've yet seen!	It's not a supplement.  That'd've been useful.  It's a big adventure set.  That could've been useful.<br />Then we met the Demon-Bear.<br />Allow me to explain.  In d20, animals don't get feats.  One of the early mini-adventures has a BIG bear that has lots of bonus feats...and a party of first and second-level PCs is supposed to defeat it.  When it can kill a PC with one swipe of its paw.  Right.<br />That's emblematic of the problems with this adventure set.  It's written with little attention to rules or game balance, or even party survival.  Some adventures throw opponent after opponent at the PCs, but with such poor healing capability, you'll inevitably have PC casualties.  While those aren't necessarily bad, having the odds stacked so heavily against you isn't fun.<br />Another flaw is that, in many instances, PC decisions don't matter.  You are, in fact, on rails in a good many adventures, and that's BAD.  The adventure in Falme, in particular, comes to mind.<br />It could've been good.  Really.  Almost anything would've been better than the ... introductory adventure included with the main book (1st-level PCs...against 3rd-level trollocs that outnumber you, and, oh yes, have high strength and high-crit-range weapons!)...save this.<br />If you're intending to GM Wheel of Time d20 adventures, save your money and look elsewhere.  You can come up with stuff that's easily better.	2003-01-20
US	49588959	R3ENIBYJAL5HSQ	0786928360	730031101	d20 Modern Roleplaying Game: Core Rulebook	Books	3	10	18	N	N	Surprising...	I was kind of looking forward to this.  Sure, Spycraft is out, and is a great modern RPG, but surely WotC, makers of the d20 system, could come up with something great?<br />Eh.<br />In a synopsis, it's boring.  Now PCs start out in one of six attribute-centered classes, with low saves and base attack.  You can then move into an advanced class if you qualify for one, but those are currently fairly rare.  They've factored in the extra human skill point, so everybody now has odd skill points/class.<br />New to the d20 system is the Wealth rating.  This is an attempt to represent modern finance, which is rather more complicated than piles of gold pieces.  The idea is that one rolls against one's Wealth rating to purchase an item, which has a variable DC based on expense and rarity.  It's a nice concept, but I'm not all that happy with it, mostly because it's possible for a 1st-level PC to not be able to afford to purchase duct tape.  (No, really.)  I'm not sure of a better way to represent modern wealth, but I'm not happy with it.  The general trend is that one gets rich as one rises in level, and in practice, one skill point/level will get devoted to Profession (which is partially used for Wealth checks).<br />Most of the other rules are similar, but new to d20 are action points, which one gains every level, and which are used to add to rolls and, if I'm not mistaken, activate critical hits.  Unfortunately, there's no mechanism for regaining them that I could see, which makes them less useful than the action dice from Spycraft.<br />The other new thing is Fx, which actually isn't new; it's weird stuff, like magic or superscience, that can be plugged into the game.  However, there's not a lot of description about magic and almost none about superscience, which might be because it's a basic book.<br />However, ALL THREE of the settings included in the book are supernatural to some degree, two with magic and one with psionics.  It's at this point that I decided that d20Modern had failed, because the Urban Arcana setting is, for all intents and purposes, D&amp;D with less capable PCs (in that their base attack and saves are lower, so they're easy fodder for that mind flayer!).  That also seems to be the first one they're developing for its own setting book.  Shadow Chasers is a less magic-intensive, lite-horror setting, similar to Buffy the Vampire Slayer and shows of that ilk, and is fairly good.  The psionics setting is okay, but was better done as part of GURPS Psionics.<br />Honestly, what they really needed was to drop Urban Arcana and put in a good, regular setting that didn't involve magic, just to show how it would be done.  You can have more or less regular games without magic or psionics, but you can't look to d20 Modern for that.  Try Spycraft first.	2002-12-13
US	49588959	RC25843OJ3ULY	0786926503	717693810	Book of Vile Darkness (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	3	31	38	N	N	The definition of NOT FOR PLAYERS!	I'm serious.  The only person who can get anything remotely useful out of this is a DM.  Players, unless they're in a \\"Hey, we're bad guys\\" campaign, have nothing remotely resembling a reason to have it.<br />Then again, I picked it up.  And a mild case of nausea, to boot.<br />This is the sourcebook on evil and villainy for D&D.  It includes descriptions of evil acts, what constitutes evil, ideas on making villains, feats and prestige classes and equipment for villains, lots of new spells, and a lot of new-to-3e monsters as well, including the demon princes.<br />The good...er, outstanding parts:  It has a high production value, and it's clear that they've put a lot of thought into this.  (The author's foreword:  \\"I'm not a bad guy.  Really.\\")  It's also easy to make bad guys your PCs will want to stomp.  Some of the equipment, properly rinsed in holy water after filing the serial numbers off, would be great for regular PCs.<br />The bad...er, negative:  Way too many of the prestige classes are devotees of the demon princes and archdevils; that's boring.  The corrupt spells (really Evil spells that any caster can use) are kind of stupid; they inflict heinous attribute damage on the caster and don't do enough damage.  One of the villains, the Dread Emperor, has a suggested attack pattern that's impossible (just try to cast four spells in one round without being in epic levels...you have a standard action to cast Haste, cast a regular spell with the partial action from haste, and then one quickened spell/round), this from the system guru.  That unnerves me a little bit.  Finally, the demon princes and archdevils are, if anything, too weak.<br />So, in the final analysis, it's okay, and definitely worth a look, but don't even bother if you're a player.  It's not at all useful for those, and not even that interesting.  And, if you're the type that's easily offended by descriptions or depictions of gore, then, by all means, stay as far away from this as you can.	2002-10-21
US	49588959	RAVXOOYJGMJU9	0786916427	720656250	Character Sheets (Dungeons & Dragons Accessory)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not bad, but scarcely necessary.	On the one hand, they're such nice character sheets.  They're quite high-quality, and are fairly well-designed.<br />On the other, gosh, they're expensive, and the only one I've ever used was the multiclass sheet.  Often they're too focused on the class.  ... if you do get it, it's fairly nice.	2002-09-18
US	49588959	R1NHELHYZFTXQS	0786928735	813281855	Monster Manual II (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	4	24	24	N	N	And here you thought you'd fought everything under the sun..	At long last, the second Monster Manual has appeared, to give DMs and players more opponents and allies for their D&D3 games.  As stated in the pre-release material, it definitely focuses on the higher end of the CR scale...the highest CR is 28, if I recall correctly.<br />In this rather nice-looking book, you'll find many, many new and gently used monsters...all the way from the ash rat (a perpetually smokey rat who causes fires) to the phoenix (which, literally, cannot be killed if it has an action), and beyond.  One entry I appreciated was the linnorms; in real life, a cryptozoological lizard from Scandinavia, but in D&D3, the most downright unpleasant types of dragons you'll run into...greedy, selfish, and downright meaner than the chromatics, though, thankfully, they don't age.  Wizards has shown an interesting predilection for worms of late...first the Worm That Walks template from Epic-Level, and now the fiendwurm (the demonically-infused earthworm with a gate to Hell in its gut) and the psurlons, a race of intelligent earthworms.<br />Also included are some monsters who've appeared before.  Most of the giants were in AD&D2, as was the banshee.  In fact, it appears a great number of these are from the old out-of-print Dark Sun setting.  There are a few monsters that have appeared in other 3e media...like the Legendary animals, first appearing in Masters of the wild, and the catoblepas, which just appeared in Dragon in September's issue (and is, itself, an update from earlier editions).  The celestials (all two of them) appeared in Planescape, as did, undoubtedly, a number of the demons and devils as well.<br />Finally, to round out the specific creatures, they include new templates...such as the dreaded death knight (undead warrior), the tauric (two creatures together...like a centaur), the chimeric (a creature with additional goat and dragon heads), the spellstitched (magically-enhanced undead), the warbeast (a martially-trained animal), the creature of legend (so it's not a minotaur, but *the* Minotaur), and, finally, the half-golem.<br />On the whole, it's a very useful book.  Lots of new creatures give the DM and the players added variety in their encounters.  I especially like the kelvezu, an assassin demon.  I wouldn't mind more ally-like creatures...more celestials would be welcome for cohorting and for GPA or GPB spells.  However, my real concern is that a fair number of creatures have already appeared in print in 3e, and I'm vaguely unhappy about having to pay for them again.  Of course, that's a minor concern, and it's still a book I'd recommend the DM purchase.	2002-09-18
US	49588959	RU8WYC73QI2WP	0738700509	346323460	Monsters: An Investigator's Guide to Magical Beings	Books	5	18	20	N	N	On Things That Go Bump In The Dark	This is one of the most fantastic books I've read in ages.  Note that this has very little to do with cryptozoology; most of the creatures discussed are not always material.<br />In this surprisingly readable book, we have a discussion of various common preternatural and supernatural monsters.  Not all of these would ordinarily be considered monsters (such as mermaids and angels), but are classified as such for ease of use.<br />Mr. Greer covers a lot of very useful ground, such as investigative techniques for the amateur monster hunter, a detailed explanation of the different levels of reality that is the most internally consistent I've ever seen, and one of the best bibliographies in print today.  He freely admits that many so-called monster sightings are, in fact, possibly something much more mundane.<br />The meat of this, though, is the section on actual monster descriptions.  Here, we learn the nature of real vampires, what Nessie *really* is, and what demons might have to do with mental illness (and no, it's not necessarily a cause-effect relationship, either...).  Information is given on the history of said monsters, various sightings, and what to do if one encounters said monster...realistically, most are treated as any other rare creature (i.e. be quiet, look, take notes and pictures if you can).  Finally, he also discusses vulnerabilities and has a section on quick ritual magic if one does, in fact, have to go all Buffy on that vampire.<br />In summation, this is one of the best New Age/magical book I've read in years.  He writes very well, and very entertainingly, and keeps a very level head.  If you're at all interested in supernatural creatures, this is one of the best books for you.	2002-09-05
US	49588959	RBD8M3DXC5CFR	0786707933	706751596	Mammoth Encyclopedia of the Unsolved	Books	4	14	15	N	N	A great primer...	...on weird and unexplained things.  I like to think that I'm up on all my oddities and weird occurrences, but this had a few that I'd never heard of (Fulcanelli, Rennes-le-Chateau), and some others that had new information on them (Kaspar Hauser).<br />However, this is by no means a definitive work.  As another reviewer pointed out, some of the authors' information is a bit dated.  Also, the authors tend to get a lot of their exercise jumping to conclusions based on very little evidence.<br />It's an enjoyable book, definitely; I appreciated it immensely, and was glad I purchased it.  However, it's not the be-all and end-all of unexplained mysteries.	2002-08-22
US	49588959	R3HGIGQGP65YAX	031220955X	834423358	The Psychic Battlefield: A History of the Military-Occult Complex	Books	3	11	11	N	N	Hemispherically Split	If I could give separate ratings to the parts of a book, I could.<br />This book is about the interaction between military needs and paranormal ability, and purports to be a history thereof, reaching back to biblical days all the way to the present-day.<br />On the whole, I've read worse (see my review of Psychic Warrior...interestingly, Mandelbaum goes into a few extra details about David Morehouse that I found illuminating).  This book really hits its stride right after World War 2, when the U.S. government starts its secret research on ESP for military uses, concentrating on the use of clairvoyance (which the military calls \\"remote viewing\\").  He comes to some very interesting conclusions, particularly about current government research and use of remote viewing (summary:  Yep.).<br />Unfortunately, the first half of the book is, as far as I can tell, a complete and utter waste of tree pulp.  I never get the impression that he's done any serious research on any of the pre-gunpowder era uses of magic or ESP.  To be fair, there's very little evidence one way or another, but he treats anything and everything as hearsay, and notes that it couldn't possibly work.<br />My other concern is that Mandelbaum is, to be blunt, a very snide and sardonic writer.  He constantly interjects comments in parentheses (like some hack writer), and belittles almost everything and everyone he writes about.  In some cases, like Morehouse's, it's deserved.  In most, I see no reason at all for it.  His disparagement of anything he has not seen work, or what trusted friends tell him will not work, is disheartening.  Finally, he really seems to enjoy showing off his personal beliefs and vocabulary, in a manner that makes me really, really not like him.<br />In short, this is okay, if only for the part about modern-day remote viewing.  I'd flip through it a bit in the bookstore before buying it, though.	2002-08-22
US	49588959	R29JGTKS9EKFG3	0786926589	146361328	Epic Level Handbook (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	64	67	N	N	Breaching the 20 barrier	Now we finally know what's on the other side of the 20th-level wall.<br />This sourcebook, a mammoth tome if there ever was one, is all about D&amp;D characters after 20th level.  It includes character information, new magic, new items, advice on running epic-level games, new monsters, and a new campaign setting designed for epic-level play.<br />The heart of the book is the character section, detailing all sorts of options for people to try after 20th level.  They've looked at classes, core *and* prestige (from DMG), and tried to find patterns to extrapolate from.  Those that don't have easily extrapolable abilities get more feats than those that do.  It does seem that they try to ignore some things...rogues, for example, get no more special abilities, though that's clearly a pattern starting at 10th level.  They also include suggestions on how to advance other prestige classes not in the DMG.  <br />Next, we have epic skills and feats.  Well, the epic skill section is a list of new possible checks to make, such as the Balance DC-120 check to walk on a cloud.  The epic feats are a mixed bag; some are really cool, others aren't.  They do tend to assume that people play in a certain pattern...for example, druids are assumed to focus on shapeshifting, and clerics to focus on positive/negative energy channeling.  It's written conservatively, with suggestions that if you want to change something, do so.<br />Next, we have epic spells and magic items.  Epic spells require research and experience to create, and a Spellcraft roll to cast, but are often worth it...like Nailed to the Sky, which puts the target in orbit, or Contingent Resurrection, which resurrects the target if s/he dies.  Epic magic items are also interesting; most of the wondrous items and weapons are extrapolations from previous items (i.e. gloves of +12 Str), but the rods and staves are very creative.  There are also a few new artifacts, most of which are actually reprints.  Interestingly, arcane casterscan make items more easily than divine, which may or may not be intended.<br />Now, the most fun part of the book...monsters!  After all, your epic-level character needs something to fight that isn't another character, right?  So, now we have official 3e stats for things like the Demilich, the Winter Wight, and the Blackball (aka a high-speed, homing, teleporting sphere of annihilation).  There are new monsters, like the colossus (really, really BIG golems), and a variant pseudonatural template (which jacks the CR of a creature up by 10-15 points!).  A new type of monster is the abomination, which is the disfigured offspring of a deity and...something else, like the infernal, born from a deific/infernal or abyssal union, or the anaxim, a twisted mechanical creation.  These tend to be mean.<br />Advice for running epic-level games is given, including official sanction of making the PCs pay for overly creative abuse of the Wish spell, but in general encouraging fun.  The new setting is an interplanar city, called Union, full of portals and potential adventure.  I think they might've gotten better results with Sigil (from Planescape), but Union works too.  An introductory adventure is included, and ELH stats for high-level Forgotten Realms and Greyhawk characters are included.<br />All in all, this is a very good book.  You'll need it sometime.  However, be aware it tends to be kind of conservative, and that you may wish to jack the power up even more.	2002-07-18
US	49588959	RHF18IBKRDUJC	0812579569	74115197	Domain (The Domain Trilogy)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Interesting, could have been much better	Ah, the Long Count and it's end on an eerily convenient day (in this, it's listed as 12/21/2012, but I've seen it in Shadowrun as 12/24/2011...I'm not sure how that happened).  It's such a wonderful doomsday prophecy, and it's no surprise that it gets used fairly often.<br />The end of the Long Count drives the plot of this novel, in which the son of an archaeologist, unjustly held in the mental health system for his assault on the man who caused his father's heart attack, befriends a psychiatric resident and gets her to help him avert the end of the world.  Meanwhile, deep unpleasantness plays itself out on the world stage.<br />On the whole, it's not a bad book.  The fringiness is rather fun, and the portrayal of contemporary scientism* is dead-on.  <br />However, the resident, Dominique, is best described as a wishy-washy blithering idiot, who waffles more than certain previous Presidents.  Also, the author's knowledge of military hardware and procedures is sadly lacking; the most egregious mistake is \\"setting ICBMs to cruise mode\\", which is most implausible.  Ballistic missiles don't fly at treetop level, and don't have that option.  And, also, writing it in present tense is a tad...odd.<br />Not a bad paperback purchase, and there's a very good chance it'll be a movie.<br />* - Scientism is the tendency to dismiss or ignore things that the science community in question does not believe to be plausible, without the testing which would normally be part of the scientific method.	2002-06-28
US	49588959	R3NYLHKGV45B3W	0786919647	389699698	Magic of Faerun (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.5 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Mmm...useful magic...	You know, I didn't really mind paying for this.  Sure, it's overpriced, but it's darn useful.<br />This book is, rather obviously, intended primarily for Forgotten Realms.  I still think that the setting is on the rather obnoxiously silly side, but the material is more or less first-rate, and thus easily stealable for better d20 settings.<br />The meat of this book is the massive number of new spells, a great number of which are useful.  There's Speed Swim (1st-level spell, gives a Swim speed of 30), Hunter's Mercy (ranger spell, 4th-level, if the arrow hits, it crits), and the utterly awesome Wieldskill (1st-level spell for clerics of Gond, gives +10 competence bonus to ANY skill, or a half rank in one skill you don't have, *or* any feat).  All classes get good spells, and some are multi-use; Mace of Odo, for example, can be used for damage or to block incoming spells.<br />You'll also find a good chunk of the book devoted to the various methods and practices of magic in Faerun, including sample temples, mage guilds, mage fairs, and odd schools of magic.  These are okay, but not particularly great.<br />There are also nifty prestige magic-based prestige classes, like the mystic wanderer, mage-killer, and the Harper Mage and Harper Priest.  There are mostly okay, though some are too dependant on the setting to be useful elsewhere.  The Guild Mage of Waterdeep is an almost exact copy of the Mage of the Arcane Order from Tome &amp; Blood.<br />Magic items and stuff are also well-represented.  There are a great many new weapons and armor enchantments, as well as specific varieties of items.  Some aren't particularly useful; the Rod of Cats springs to mind as one of the more pointless items (yes, darkvision is nice, but there are easier/cheaper ways of doing that...).  The magical materials available are greatly expanded, including special weapon/armor materials and gems that enhance spells.  Last, but not least, you'll find a selection of monsters and templates that appear in the setting.<br />All in all, this is a pretty decent book.  The production value is very high, and they obviously put a lot of effort into it.  If I liked Forgotten Realms at all, it'd get 5 stars.	2002-06-13
US	49588959	R3D2368Y2610T5	0786919965	651574096	The Wheel of Time Roleplaying Game (d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	47	48	N	N	Begging for an Expansion	Let's just say I was pleasantly surprised that there wasn't a system for handling chronic upper respiratory infections.<br />This is the d20 system role-playing game for the Wheel of Time system, at least for the first six novels...the character stats given are as of the end of Lord of Chaos.  It offers a more-or-less complete game system that's surprisingly good.<br />Included are entirely new core (i.e. 20-level classes) and prestige classes, such as the algai'd'siswai (Aiel spear-fighter), armsman, wanderer, woodsman, noble, initiate, and wilder, which are more appropriate to the world than those listed in the D&amp;D PHB.  They use the standard skill and feat system.  There are two playable races, humans and Ogier (the big guy on the cover); humans get an extra skill point and an extra background feat, in a fashion similar to the Forgotten Realms campaign setting.<br />Feats are mostly standard, but include the various channeling feats and Lost Feats, which are limited by the need to take a precursor feat before taking the real feat, which should keep them rare.  Equipment is mostly normal, with mention of power-wrought swords and other wondrous items, such as masterpiece weapons and armor (like masterwork, but better).<br />Channeling...ah, channeling.  As others have mentioned, it's put in as a spell slot system, but the available slots represent a safe limit.  You can overchannel all you want, but sooner or later it'll cost you.  The weaves listed have variable effects based on the slot used, which is nice.  They have a decent way of handling linking and angreal and sa'angreal, but I'll get more into that later.  And, for male channelers, there's the joy of the Madness mechanic.<br />Included are character descriptions for most of the major hero characters (Rand, Mat, Thom, Lan, Moiraine, etc.), as well as MM-style descriptions of the various beasts and exotic animals found in the setting.  Sadly, no Forsaken are depicted, yet.  One will also find standard rules, some setting information, and advice on running the game.<br />On the whole, I'm quite impressed.  It's a nice and coherent system, and works better than I thought.  I can't find much to complain about, other than some minor quibbles...such as some of the character write-ups being wrong (some people not having abilities that they demonstrated in the novels, or equipment, etc.).<br />What I'd like, of course, is an expansion or two...obviously, they'll have to do one the farther the storyline goes.  I think that short prestige classes for each of the Ajahs might be nice, and lists of where Portal Stones and the Ogier Ways are would be very helpful (aside from GM fiat).<br />But, what I'd really like is an Age of Legends expansion...with all sorts of lost weaves and feats for item creation.  Gosh, that'd be cool.les, some setting information, and advice on running the game.<br />On the whole, I'm quite impressed.  It's a nice and coherent system, and works better than I thought.  I can't find much to complain about, other than some minor quibbles...such as some of the character write-ups being wrong (some people not having abilities that they demonstrated in the novels, or equipment, etc.).<br />What I'd like, of course, is an expansion or two...obviously, they'll have to do one the farther the storyline goes.  I think that short prestige classes for each of the Ajahs might be nice, and lists of where Portal Stones and the Ogier Ways are would be very helpful (aside from GM fiat).<br />But, what I'd really like is an Age of Legends expansion...with all sorts of lost weaves and feats for item creation.  Gosh, that'd be cool.	2002-05-09
US	49588959	R4DL701YL07GW	0786926546	44226739	Deities and Demigods (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Supplement)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Not bad, but a little dense and dry	You think your characters won't ever face a god?  Think again!<br />This, of course, is the long-awaited sourcebook on creating and playing D&D divine beings, from quasi-deity einherjar all the way up to supreme nameless deities. It has gobs of information in it; each deity's entry takes up almost two double-columned pages. You'll find out how to build your own deities, and to find out what they can do and how they can do it, and what the DM can do with them. Make no bones about it, this is a book purely meant for the DM (as one can tell by the blue cover). It does give option for PC deities, but those are kind of sparse, like they were really reaching for them.<br />What's good? It has mass quantities of data, and that's always a good thing. It's got great artwork, and it provides some good adventuring material; if nothing else, it gives the PCs something to shoot for. It also serves as sort of a preview for the Epic-Level Handbook; the divine salient abilities are often just several epic-level feats rolled up into one.<br />What's bad? Not really much. After a certain point, mass quantities of data lose their usefulness. I would've liked a bit more information on the default D&D pantheon's temples and clergy, but for the other pantheons one can find out more information at one's library.<br />All in all, it's a pretty good book for the DM. I'd like something like the Book of Priestcraft for more detail on the pantheons, but that's a campaign-specific issue.	2002-04-25
US	49588959	R2M2SGZG0DSA38	0786926538	902998649	Masters of the Wild: A Guidebook to Barbarians, Druids, and Rangers (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying Accessory)	Books	5	26	29	N	N	Last, but not least!	It's like they do their best work for divine spellcasters.<br />Masters of the Wild is the last of the D&D3 character class splatbooks, being for the barbarian, druid, and ranger.  I happen to think that it's the best one of those that they put out, too; loads better than Sword & Fist or Song & Silence.<br />You'll find the usual content:  Discussion of each class's party role, stereotypical interactions with other classes, and ideas for play strategy, new feats, new magic and mundane items, new uses for skills, prestige classes, and new spells to cast.  New to this supplement are the legendary animals...amazingly tough animals to replace dire animal companions when your druid gets to a high level.<br />What's good?  Almost everything.  The prestige classes, which I've always thought were the best indicator of quality of these books, are very nicely conceived and presented, and are in fact quite creative.  I'm particularly enamored of the Tempest (the ultimate two-weapon fighter).  Even those prestige classes obviously meant for NPC usage (Eye of Gruumsh, Bane of Infidels, Blighter, Oozemaster) are good.  They have a tremendous feat selection, many of which are applicable to all classes.  The legendary animals are useful (our party currently includes two), and the magic items and spells are good.  Even the class discussions are entertaining and have good insights.<br />What's bad?  Honestly, nothing to prevent me from giving it 5 stars.  The Deepwood Sniper pales in comparison to Arcane Archer (from DMG) or Order of the Bow Initiate (S&F), and the Watch Detective suffers from something of a too-modern viewpoint in regards to evidence, but that's it.<br />By and large, this is well worth your purchase, even if you don't play a barbarian, druid, or ranger.  (If nothing else, you never know when your character will wind up in a Bane of Infidels' wicker man...)	2002-03-12
US	49588959	R3H9BDTCIKKQUA	0671318489	671131382	Shiva Option	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A Study in Predestination	In this, the sequel to In Death Ground, the Grand Alliance takes its vengeance and eradicates the Bugs from the galaxy.  This, of course, is not a spoiler, as it is made abundantly clear in Insurrection (the first published Starfire novel, which takes place last chronologically) that the Bugs are smashed by the Terran Federation and its allies, the Orions, Gorm, and Ophiuchi.  We see the Alliance smash Bug hive after Bug hive at grievous cost to itself, and are introduced to the Star Union of Crucis, an interstellar multispecies polity (like the Alliance) that is on the other side of Bug space.<br />Now, over the course of this novel, we witness a great many space battles, many dwarfing the magnitude of previous battles.  Unfortunately, they are rarely detailed as much as previous examples, mostly because there are *so* *many*.  In fact, it becomes somewhat repetitive...the warp point assault, followed by the fighter/gunship clash, the gunship/battle line clash, the fighter/battle line clash, and, to end with, the battle line/battle line clash.<br />To be fair, there's not that much they can do to avoid the repetition; when one is fighting a powerful enemy, you'll have a great many individual battles.  They do try to liven it up with ground combat and other options.  Also, luck has a way of benefiting the Alliance far more than the Bugs...but, then again, the Alliance does make a lot of its own luck, and the Bugs get some very good luck of their own.<br />All in all, this is a good book, and I'm not sorry that I bought it.  If you're uncomfortable, check out the Baen website, which has the first ten chapters, and see what you think, or wait for paperback.	2002-02-15
US	49588959	R173GMFFORLE6Q	0345379098	44157935	Morningstar	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Another good (sort of) stand-alone?	Of course, there's a reference to one of the characters thinking about fleeing to Ventria, so you never know if the island of the Ikenas and Highlands aren't northwest of Drenai...<br />However, that's not the point.  This is an excellent book about the nature of heroism and legend that twists and turns throughout history.<br />Unlike most of his books, Morningstar is narrated in the first person, in this case by one Owen Odell, a bard/magician who meets and befriends a rakish thief named Jarek Mace, and tells us his story.<br />As others have said, it's a decidedly different manner of writing for Mr. Gemmell; every other of his books that I've read have been third-person, before and since.  It's a very good read, and quite fast, too; it's much thinner than his normal books, and read much faster, which is sometimes a good thing.  <br />All in all, I rather enjoyed this novel, and highly recommend it.	2001-12-26
US	49588959	R2JMK0S3VAFOGV	0786918365	439626629	Forgotten Realms Campaign Setting (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying, Forgotten Realms Setting)	Books	4	11	14	N	N	The Gold Standard for setting books	I do have to say that I don't particularly care for the Forgotten Realms.  The setting is implausible and silly, and gets more attention than I think it really deserves.  It loses a star for this.<br />However, I can belatedly understand *why* it gets all the attention it does...or at least why it would now.<br />This is as complete and detailed a setting book as I've ever seen, yet it leaves so much open for the DM to play with.  Thumbnails of countries and organizations paint good pictures while leaving room for improvisation.  Classes and prestige classes and feats and spells are useful for almost anybody, as are the massive lists of deities and domains (including the orcish, dwarven, elvish, gnomish, halfling, and drow pantheons, left out of the main game aside from their head) and creature descriptions in the back.<br />You also have detailed write-ups of many major characters from the Realms, from Elminster to Drizzt Do'Urden to Szass Tam.  Unlike previous supplements, these conform almost entirely with published rules, save that the Epic-Level Handbook is nowhere on the horizon (used for many of the very high-level characters, and for which we can glean a little bit from a snippet here and there).<br />This is the model for what a setting book should be.  If it were attached to a setting I liked more (such as Birthright), it'd be perfect.	2001-12-19
US	49588959	R26L3QYQ0NF7HC	0449005593	64754507	Knockout: USA vs. Militia	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A surprisingly good book and series despite themselves	By most standards, this series should be horrible.  There are glaring factual errors (such as, in one previous book, using a Harpoon anti-ship missile as a surface-to-air missile), little attention paid to time and continuity, and relatively rough characterization.<br />However, it's cool.<br />I've read the entire series of the Freeman universe, from the WW3 books to the USA vs. Militia books.  They're fun, exciting, and just plain entertaining books, and are written so the problems I highlighted at the beginning are treated as advantages, not disadvantages.  This novel is no exception.<br />In previous novels, a great deal of the United States Militia Corps' (which I will not refer to as USMC, not wishing to taint Marines with the perversions of rebel traitors) manpower was captured and incarcerated in a detention camp at Fairchild AFB.  The driving plot of this novel is Lucky McBride, the militia's greatest warrior, and his attempt to force the government into releasing those prisoners.  This develops into a series of disastrous encounters for both the government and the militia, requiring the intervention of General Douglas Freeman.<br />One of the striking features about this series is that the fog of war affects both sides equally; rarely does any plan go off without a hitch, and neither side is favored.  Also, while the characterization is rough, it's often very good...particularly, in this book, Maddin.  And, finally, there is a great deal of humor in the series, the intention of which I'm not sure about (though you should see Force 10 for the best examples of that).<br />All in all, this was another enjoyable book of a good series.	2001-12-19
US	49588959	R38KLQAMYJHRKM	0786918500	74184571	Manual of the Planes (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	5	21	23	N	N	One of the DM's best books to have...	Really.<br />I borrowed my Birthright DM's copy, since, well, I'm not DMing, don't plan on doing so anytime soon, and had no need to purchase it...but it'd still be interesting, I figured.<br />I found a detailed guide to the default D&amp;D cosmology, suggestions on alternate cosmologies, decent prestige classes, new monsters and monster types, new spells, and...a write-up of every single plane in the standard cosmology...even alternate material planes!<br />Note that this book is really only of use to DMs, not players.  There's not enough there for you to justify the expense.  But for DMs...oh, yes.<br />You have three basic types of non-material planes:  Transitive, Inner, and Outer.  Transitive planes are those whose main purpose is to get you from one plane to another...such as the Astral, Ethereal, and (new to this book) Shadow.  Inner planes are the elemental planes...fire, water, earth, air, plus the paraelemental planes (where the infinite planes meet), as well as the positive and negative energy planes.  And, finally, there are the outer planes...where the celestials and fiends and other outsiders live.<br />Each plane has a standard format, discussing specific characteristics of that plane and any special effects (like the 3d10 points of fire damage/round an unprotected person receives on the Elemental Plane of Fire).  There are also non-standard planes included as options, such as Faerie, the Elemental Plane of Wood, and the Far Realms (where multi-tentacled insanity-causing monstrosities dwell).<br />Creatures range from new celestials to new fiends, including a new (to 3e, anyway) category, the yugoloths.  There are also new templates...half-elementals, axiomatic and anarchic creatures, etc.  There are also non-psionic versions of the githyanki and githzerai...some people might not like buying two versions, but not everybody uses psionics.<br />The book is of uniformly high quality...the art is great, the writing is great, and it all just *works*.  I can't think of anything bad about this book.  If you're planning on running a D&amp;D 3e game and it might involve the planes, you owe it to yourself to get this book.	2001-12-13
US	49588959	R77IUHT89UYEE	0786918578	833649401	Song and Silence: A Guidebook to Bards and Rogues (Dungeon & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	It would probably help if I liked bards...	I waited for this with baited breath.  My current character is a rogue, and after seeing the Blade Dancer in Oriental Adventures, the idea of having my character be a Thief-Acrobat was all I could think about.<br />And so, when I heard it was at my friendly local gaming store, I ran to get it.<br />And I'm just a tad disappointed.<br />Basically, this is the bard &amp; rogue splatbook for D&amp;D3.  In it, we find 10 prestige classes, rules for creating traps, new uses for skills, new feats, new items, both mundane and magical, organizations, role-playing tips, and new spells for bards and assassins (because, you know, assassins are rogue-like...).<br />Things that I liked, well, the dungeon delver, royal explorer, and thief-acrobat prestige classes were pretty cool.  The skill discussions and feats are nice and useful, and I like having a system for creating traps that's not painfully stupid (thankfully, no treadmills here!).  The bardic organizations are quite interesting.<br />Now, unfortunately, the remaining prestige classes...I consider them uninteresting at best (Virtuoso, Outlaw of the Crimson Road) or obscenely stupid (Fang of Lolth) at worst.  Most of the prestige classes suffer from reduced skill points from what rogues have.<br />And...now, this is a personal bias, but, to be frank, it affected what I thought of this book.  I don't really care for bards.  I've thought about playing bards, but I can't, really.  I would've appreciated the parts devoted to bards to have been replaced with things that are useful to rogues.  I realize the classes are related, and that not a lot of people are going to share my disdain, but...still.<br />All in all, I'd really hoped to give this 5 stars.  I'd give it 3.5 if I could, but out of memory for my anticipation, I'll round it up to 4 stars.	2001-11-30
US	49588959	R3TYFFKHAC7OOG	1555603637	315379808	Man & Machine: Cyberware (Shadowrun)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Essential for anybody who doesn't play a mage...	...and some that do.<br />Man &amp; Machine is the &quot;tech&quot; book for Shadowrun, Third Edition (SR3).  It replaces Shadowtech and Cybertechnology, and collects all the myriad bits of cyberware, bioware, and chemicals into one easy-to-use volume.  There is no Shadowtalk, as this is, primarily, a rulebook.<br />What's in?  There are extensive discussions on cyberware and bioware, including a revised way of combining the two that reduces the interaction considerably.  While I'm not entirely happy with that, I can see the reasoning behind it.  An entire new category of equipment, nanoware, is included.  It's not the all-powerful nanotech of transhuman science fiction, but it's at an appropriate usefulness for a technology still in its infancy.<br />We also have chapters on chemistry and pharmaceuticals, from thermite and fuel-air explosives to new cocaine derivatives.  There are also rules for cybermancy, and a brand-new section on medicine, surgery, and healing for the game.<br />What's good?  Actually, the single best thing about the book is the chart detailing EVERY SINGLE PIECE of personal enhancement in the game.  It's almost like the nigh-deity-like chart from Fields of Fire.  The contents are uniformly of fairly high quality, and it's very useful.  It re-introduces bioware (which skipped SR2 entirely, save from using Shadowtech), and adds decent other material and rules, which are always good if they're filling a hole (as they are here).<br />What's bad?  Not much, really.  Just little individual bits...like the fact that cyberlimbs are, by and large, useless.  I have to agree with a previous reviewer that having a lot of marginally useful cyberware isn't very good.  The major part is revealed in the designers' notes...where they discuss what they decided caused Essence loss...and then proceeded to ignore it for a lot of items.  Their definition was nervous system interaction...which is all well and good, but bone lacing and peg legs have no nervous interaction whatsoever, and therefore should not cost Essence...at all.  And, I'm still a tad peeved that almost all of my SR2 characters would go into massive system shock and die upon conversion.<br />All in all, though, it's still a good book, and nigh-essential for anybody playing a Shadowrun game.	2001-11-14
US	49588959	R3KM4K9ZXHOZOT	0786903570	702573935	The Iron Throne (Birthright)	Books	2	1	3	N	N	Ugh.	This novel tells the story of Michael Roele, last direct descendant of Roele, champion of Anduiras, brother to the new god Haelyn, and Emperor of Anuire.<br />Unfortunately, it doesn't tell it well.<br />Our main viewpoint character is Aedan Dosiere, the playmate of Michael Roele, who is to grow up to be his high chamberlain.  We see how the Archduke Boeruine treacherously betrays him, leading to an 8-year civil war, and how Michael's sister, Laera, turns to darkness in a manner that will lead to the destruction of the empire at the hands of its greatest threat, the Gorgon.<br />This could have been a great novel.  However, several things stand in the way.  First, the writing, especially the dialogue, is quite clumsy.  <br />Secondly, the author apparently skimmed the background material and barely paid any attention to anything outside of Anuire; among other things, he confused the Rjurik (Celticy Vikings) and Brecht (Hanseatic League Germans) with the Vos (Russian/Mongol hybrids), and discussed awnshegh that weren't in the setting at the time (such as the Raven).<br />Thirdly, one could hear the dice rolling.  However, they didn't roll evenly; physical combat was blessedly free of gaming discussions, but magic, even AD&amp;D 2nd edition magic, has been handled much better in other novels.<br />I wanted to like this novel.  Really, I did.  Birthright is my favorite campaign setting.  However, this would almost be enough to make me forswear any more novels in the series.  Good thing I'm borrowing them.	2001-11-12
US	49588959	R3PNKG4JOPW9VD	0786918454	861877522	Tome and Blood: A Guidebook to Wizards and Sorcerers (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	An Improvement on what's come before...	I have never, ever played a mage.  As part of my policy of letting the people who make a habit of playing a mage worry about magic, I ignored this book for several months.  However, lately, I've decided that I might have to turn my hand towards magery.<br />So, what do we have in this, the splatbook for wizards and sorcerers?  Well, there is the obligatory mass of prestige classes, as well as new spells, metamagic feats, playing tips, and rules clarifications.<br />What's good?  I especially appreciated the discussion on item creation, which gives more detail on how it works and what happens, and better information on costs.  The metamagic feats are interesting, and some are downright mean; my DM sprang a sorcerer with a fire admixed cone of cold on us one time, doubling the damage output of the spell (but making it into a much higher level spell).  I especially liked the Mage of the Arcane Order, Arcane Trickster, Wayfarer Guide, and Bladesinger prestige classes.  The spells are also pretty neat, and the tips section is nice and thorough.<br />What's bad?  Aside from the four prestige classes I mentioned above, I barely have a use for any others.  They seem to be mostly meant for NPCs.  And of those four prestige classes, the bladesinger had to be heavily errataed on wizards.com, due to most of its abilities being left out.  If there were less...eccentric prestige classes, I'd be a lot happier.<br />A note about role-playing stuff:  At heart, D&amp;D has ALWAYS been a generic game.  Without a setting attached, you can really only do so much to create a background for a class, which is why I believe that WotC isn't pushing the roleplaying component in source material like this.  Sure, the default setting is Greyhawk, but the vast majority of people who I know play in any other setting that's been published, or made up their own.<br />All in all, this is a pretty good supplement.  WotC is definitely improving their line of splatbooks as they go along.  I can't wait for Song &amp; Silence to come out.	2001-11-12
US	49588959	R1SR38WGJ6PLYU	0345423399	497739972	A Kiss of Shadows (Meredith Gentry, Book 1)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Interesting start, though I blushed the entire way through..	In this novel, we find Merry Gentry, a faerie princess hiding from her aunt, the Queen of Air &amp; Darkness, Ruler of the Unseelie Court, who she believes will kill her.<br />As would absolutely have to happen, of course, her mother finds her.  Or, rather, agents of her mother do.  And, we find not all is as it seems.<br />This, in what is one of the most sex-drenched novels I've ever read.  I sincerely believe that the lack of sex scenes from Obsidian Butterfly is a direct result of this novel; Ms. Hamilton was saving them up, it seems.<br />What's good?  Well, first, Ms. Hamilton is a very talented first-person writer.  She's simply a pleasure to read.  Also, her alternate history gets fleshed out quite nicely, and the picture of a magic-heavy America is also a fun sight.<br />What didn't I like?  Hrm...some of the alternate history seemed a bit, well, lame.  (The fey in WW2 is what I'm thinking of here).  Also, it is a tad predictable at times.  I knew most of what was going to happen from relatively heavy foreshadowing.  And, of course, I'm not exactly happy with the sheer mass of sex present; it's not nearly enough to turn me away from this book (it did get a 4-star rating), but I'd've preferred it toned down.<br />All in all, I recommend this, especially to anybody interested in modern-day fantasy.	2001-07-07
US	49588959	R2HRQ31NY3Q6RH	0385485530	217694758	A Guy's Guide to Dating: Everything You Need to Know About Love, Sex, Relationships, and Other Things Too Terrible to Contemplate	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Smart, funny, and all too real	I'll lead off with why I bought this book.  I'd browsed it in the bookstore several times, giggling hysterically every time.  One time, I left off after reading that after getting married, instead of going out, married couples had dinner parties, and instead of beer, they had wine and cheese.<br />I get home that evening.  On my voice-mail is an invitation from a newly married friend, inviting me to a dinner party, and they'd provide the wine and cheese.<br />I bought this book the next day.<br />Honestly, this book really isn't that helpful.  After all, you don't need to know how to handle the opposite sex in kindergarten by the time you can read this.  However, their humor is insightful, clever, and extremely good.  And, as a bonus, almost everything they say is true.  You already know it, of course, one way or another, but it's still a good way of putting things.<br />Plus, it's the funniest book I've ever read.  I highly recommend it.	2001-05-29
US	49588959	RT3K0BZ7SGIFB	0671000713	641705705	Detachment Bravo (Rogue Warrior Series)	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Rogue, Twisting in the Wind...	Not quite as good as Echo Platoon, or previous works, but still a decent read.<br />The basic gist is that Dick has been exiled to running a joint counter-terrorist operation in England/N. Ireland with Mick Owen and soldiers from various services.  They're hunting the True IRA, a group that in Real Life is laughably incompetent but suddenly has an infusion of funds that they're using to do some really unpleasant stuff.  Things go wrong, Dick gets his face in the news, again, and he gets an assignment to hunt down a splinter group, the Green Hand Defenders, and to eventually get their backers, a pair of Irish dot-com billionaires.<br />Several themes stand out.  First, the Rogue Warrior (R) is getting really old.  He misses stuff he would've picked up on three books ago, stuff that's blindingly obvious to the reader.  His network of support is retiring, and his patron, General Crocker, is taking his terminal leave.<br />There's also more of a focus on Dick this time.  In past issues, his supporting cast was a lot more involved.  This time, though, it seems like they're just...there.  Even Mick Owens barely does anything all novel long.  Oh, they do stuff, it's just more glossed over than anything else.<br />Finally, the opposition...just doesn't have any caliber to it.  The dot-com billionaires are really rather pathetic, and none of the hired hands stand out as worthy opponents.  The method the tangos were going to hit Target # 1 with was impressive, to say the least, but that was it.  I'd really've liked somebody for Dick to fight who I could be truly worried would win.<br />This is, of course, a good novel.  It's entertaining, informative, and downright humorous at times.  It's not quite as good as those that have come before, though.	2001-05-21
US	49588959	R3D6ZXGQ31PJJ3	0786918403	224692788	Defenders of the Faith: A Guidebook to Clerics and Paladins	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Much Better than S&amp;F	Which, of course, doesn't tell us much about this, since S&amp;F really wasn't that good.<br />This is, as you may've guessed, the D&amp;D3 splatbook for clerics and paladins.  In it, you'll find a collection of roleplaying and character advice, new equipment, prestige classes, and spells.  There are also sample temples based on alignment, and a few other organizations.<br />What's good?  Well, for starters, the material is more substantive.  There's more here on almost every subject, leading to a lack of intentional filler material.  The prestige classes are decent, and I liked the advice on playing a paladin.  Having non-standard mounts is also a nice touch.<br />What's bad?  Not so much as S&amp;F.  Actually, very little specifically bad.  It seemed a tad dense to me, and a lot of the new abilities are rather...munchkin-capable.  (A member of my party uses one ability, I forget the name, that has him spend a turning attempt and get a massive attack and damage bonus...and his charisma is rather high)  Also, the appendix with monster religions is disappointing; while a nice thing to get you started, I wonder why each humanoid race has only one deity.  Check out the old AD&amp;D2 Monster Mythology, or for demihumans, the FR supp. Demihuman Deities.<br />All in all, not bad.  I wasn't disappointed, but wasn't that thrilled.	2001-05-15
US	49588959	R3BI2HU76IFO2W	0345432347	810015467	Sword in the Storm (The Rigante Series, Book 1)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Drenai?  What Drenai?	This was on my wish list for a long time, as it only just became available in America recently.  I'm not disappointed.<br />Basically, the novel follows the preordained rise to greatness of Conn, the titular &quot;Sword in the Storm&quot;.  He is noticed by the Seidh, a group of dangerous near-deities, who help him in times of trouble.  He leaves the lands of his native tribe and visits the mainland, serving as a scout in the armies of Stone, an all-conquering empire.  He comes back to strengthen his people for the coming onslaught, which is set up at the end of this book.<br />&quot;Okay, but what's it like?&quot;<br />Pretty darn good, actually.  I like Gemmell's way of focusing on the thoughts of minor characters as well as major ones, giving us a different perspective.  It is, of course, liberally drawn from European history; Conn's people are quite obviously Celtic, and the Stone are, of course, Rome.<br />One of the more interesting things I noticed was how Mr. Gemmell uses fate.  The liberal knowledge of geasa is one manifestation, and the other is the Seidh's interest in Conn.  As I mentioned, he is preordained for greatness...though I really suspect it's more of a &quot;preordained to keep the Seidh alive for a little while longer&quot; kind of thing, given that the Seidh are usually quite selfish in their faeishness (come on, you rearrange Seidh to get Sidhe...), and the epilogue seems to support this.  Of course, I'll know more come the sequel, in May.<br />I highly recommend this novel.	2001-03-31
US	49588959	R2UUGH2X0J540H	1556343477	325920961	Munchkins Guide to Power Gaming (Steve Jackson games)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	One of my favorite gaming books, ever	When we started our Shadowrun campaign last year, the GM mentioned that he'd be watching for people who took Phobia: Man-Made Satellites.  I, being a relative novice at munchkinization, asked why, and he pointed me to this book.<br />I've actually had this for a while, but it is, by far, the single funniest book I've seen or read in years.<br />The basic setup is pretty straightforward.  There's a chapter on general munchkin strategies, and them specific strategies for fantasy, modern, sci-fi, horror, supers, and live-action games.  There is also a section on dealing with munchkin players, intended for the GM.  There's even a quiz to tell you how munchkin you are, and how bad your players are.<br />Is there useful stuff in there?  Depends on your definition of useful, but it's all funny, and the GM section does give somewhat useful strategies.  <br />But, it is side-splittingly funny.  The first time I ever read it, my sides hurt from laughing so hard.  <br />If you get a chance, read it...it's great.	2001-03-23
US	49588959	R3TCVFV8462769	1556343604	849388161	Authentic Thaumaturgy	Books	4	21	23	N	N	Nice, fun, very opinionated	Does this let you do real magic?  No.  At least, I hope not...<br />What, then, is this for?<br />This is written as a guide by a self-styled Real World Magician on how to translate the magic he knows of into gaming terms.  Bearing in mind this is his perspective, and that what is &quot;real&quot; is not necessarily the best thing, this is actually a useful book.<br />He basically goes into magical laws (of which Murphy's has been included), the relationship between magic and psionics (see The Psionics Handbook for D&amp;D3 for a similar view), cultural references, and, finally, a rump magic system that's very calculation-intensive.<br />Is this for everyone?  No.  Mr. Bonewits has some very, ah, strong opinions that some might find irritating, offensive, or otherwise bad.  It also might not be useful to everybody, given that I know very few people who actually make up their own systems.  I bought it, but am not going to ever use it for anything other than reading material.  However, I am glad that I bought it.  You may want to do some quick perusing in the store first, though.	2001-03-22
US	49588959	R2ILWRCD7NE66W	1588461599	277910512	Relics & Rituals (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying, Scarred Lands)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Not Bad, Kinda Moody	First, if you didn't know this, Sword and Sorcery Studio is an offshoot of White Wolf...or so I've heard.<br />Second, the Scarred Lands setting is their grim'n'gritty campaign setting, which is actually kind of interesting.<br />Third, this is a fun and useful book, thought not a must-buy.<br />It can be divided up into several parts.  You have your prestige classes, all of which are magic-based.  Then there are a whole bunch of spells, followed by rituals and tattoo magic.  Rituals are cooperative spells, done by several (N)PCs, and all have an XP cost.  Tattoos are spell effects that are, well, tattooed onto the wearer, and usable under certain conditions.  Then you get your magic items and then artifacts, both minor and major.<br />What's good?  Well, it's chock full of information.  You can pick and choose at your leisure from the multiplicity of choices they give you.  The flavor text is nice, and gives a decent idea of what the Scarred Lands are like.  The layout and art are also pretty good, as well; it's very easy to read?<br />What's bad?  I didn't like the prestige classes one bit.  Granted, that's due mostly to personal bias rather than quality, but I thought the Vigilant prestige class was kind of overpowered.  Some the spells are kind of overpowered, too.  Heck, that's pretty much what this book is:  Overpowered.  Granted, that isn't necessarily a bad thing, but to some people, it's not going to be what they're looking for.<br />All in all, it's a good book that can be really useful, but it's not essential.	2001-03-21
US	49588959	R2VS85QET8Z34L	0786918357	625986745	Psionics Handbook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	The Best Psionics D&amp;D has ever had	Though, frankly, the last few systems have been, well, crap.  &quot;Why do I have to roll to activate my powers when wizards and clerics don't?&quot;  How on Earth did they come up with a &quot;Mental THAC0&quot;?<br />This book takes the approach that psionics is another form of magic, and so you can use spell resistance to save yourself.  This is a rather nice treatment, and fairly balanced.<br />There are several sections.  There are the base character classes, the psion and the psychic warrior; the psion concentrates on psionic abilities, while the psychic warrior is a fighter who has some small abilities.  We get rules for using psionics (every attribute is important), a nifty power list that looks amazingly like a spell list (because it is...pretty much), psionic items (Green Destiny, from Crouching Tiger, Hidden Dragon, would be a psionic weapon), new prestige classes (like illithid-hunters), and creepy-crawlies to kill.  The githyanki and githzerai make it into D&amp;D3, though, sadly, the thought eater is no longer a platypus.  Pity.<br />What's good?  Almost everything.  Unlike a lot of people, I like the presentation of the 3rd ed. books, and this is no exception.  It's a very good treatment of psionics, there are neat abilities, and it's just such a good gestalt it's not funny.  I absolutely love the psychic warrior class.<br />Bad things?  Well, for one thing, it really should be only...  For another, well, some of the higher-level psion abilities I'm told are overpowered, but I'm not that convinced of it.  The psychic warrior's abilities tend to be, um, oddly placed; most tend to be strength-based, but I'd like a greater blend of wisdom-, dex-, and con-based powers, for that Jedi feel.<br />All in all, this is a great book.  Try and get it someplace you have a discount, though.	2001-03-16
US	49588959	R66BD65P85OVZ	0786916575	501237295	Servant of the Shard (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 3)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	&quot;Now one-third less sanctimony!&quot;	One of the things I'd really like to see is a knock-down, drag-out fight between Jarlaxle and Drizzt.  The contest of skill versus flexibility would be an amazing thing to see.  And, with the way Salvatore's writing Drizzt these days, I'd root for Jarlaxle.  He's much more fun.<br />This novel is about three characters...Jarlaxle, Entreri, and Crenshinibon, the artifact also known as the Crystal Shard.  I don't think I've ever read such a good treatment of how D&amp;D artifacts can really act, as it slowly turns Jarlaxle towards its point of view, and as Entreri fights its encroaching influence off.  Eventually, they decide to destroy the artifact, and get the (grudging) assistance of Cadderly, late of the Cleric Quintet.<br />So, why do I like this book?  Salvatore's writing isn't that great; I didn't get a good picture of the fighting in my head, and the dialogue seemed forced in some cases.  The secondary characters are kind of sparse, too; the picture I get of Cadderly and Danica is much different than that from the Cleric Quintet.<br />Somehow, though, it all flows together.  We get to see inside Artemis' head, as well as Jarlaxle's.  We get more of both of their motivations, and, frankly, they're the most interesting characters Salvatore's come up with that I've read.  There's even the begining of another rivalry, between Artemis and Danica...though mostly on her end.<br />If this weren't a D&amp;D novel, it would stink.  But, as a D&amp;D novel, it's great.<br />Even Drizzt's journal entries aren't as bad as before.  Yes, he's irritating, and I'm glad he's not in the book.  I wonder, though...what'll happen when Entreri finds out Drizzt's alive?  Which, I'm sure, will be next book, next year.	2001-03-08
US	49588959	REQDVX5TB5FJ1	1555603106	182164068	Battletech: Technical Readout 3025	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Revised, Retooled, Reprinted	Way way way back, before the beginning of the end, FASA had Technical Readouts for its two major game lines, Renegade Legions and Battletech.  Renegade Legion is, of course, long since gone, but Battletech still thrives, and one of the most consistent sellers are these, the tech readouts.  And this was the first.<br />Well, not really.  See, the original 3025 readout had a bevy of 'Mechs you'd seen in other media, particularly Robotech (say, the Marauder, Warhammer, Locust, etc.).  Then, a few years ago, FASA was embroiled in a lawsuit over the use of the images, and things went poorly.  So, FASA can't put any more images of the contested 'Mechs in any product.<br />And so was born the 3025 Revised Readout.  All affected 'Mechs were excised, and replaced with Level 1 versions of the old Star League 'Mechs (like the Thug, the Black Knight, Flashman, etc.).  Background is inserted to make it seem like they've been there all along, and while there are still some mentions of the old 'Mechs (like Barber's Marauder 2s, a mercenary regiment), we'll never see the old ones again.<br />I give this a four because it is still the introductory readout, and pretty good.  If you can get the original, you should...but it's going to be very hard to find now, as they made the changes several years ago.  But this is definitely a book you want to have if you play Battletech.	2001-03-06
US	49588959	RJRCPO4IQU15Y	0786918292	827812529	Sword and Fist: A Guidebook to Fighters and Monks	Books	3	16	16	N	N	Really would've preferred more...	I bought this after a quick glance, seeing a few cool things that I liked.  It's probably a good thing I did, at least for WotC, because I would've held off for a while if I'd looked harder.<br />If you hadn't guessed, this is the fighter/monk handbook for D&amp;D 3.  It includes new feats, new prestige classes, new gear, advice on using skills and tactics, and, finally, schematics of various fortresses and vehicles.<br />What did I like?  Some of the feats were really useful.  The tactical advice was helpful, and the fortress information is very potentially useful.<br />However, this is a rather weak supplement.  They give examples of how to use two skills, when they should've put in more.  The prestige classes, by and large, are silly or useless.  As an example, take the Ravager, a (mostly) NPC class.  To join, you have to kill an existing member.  Therefore, through attrition, each band will soon be, as the recruitment ads so wonderfully state, &quot;An Army of One.&quot;  Most of the classes included are oriental in nature, which precludes them from play if the GM bases his game solely on European background.  Some of the feats are such that no fighter will *ever* be able to take them; show me a fighter with Wisdom of 19, and I'll show you someone who should've been a priest or a monk.  The weapons are all exotic, and kind of munchkiny.  The tactics section was far too short, and easily could've been expanded, with a general discussion of feats and how best to use them.  And, well, while the buildings were nice, it seemed like they were just filler.<br />Sigh.  This isn't a bad book, it's just that it could've been so much better.	2001-02-06
US	49588959	R2HNOCS1V2HB4J	1555603815	779523387	Maximum Tech, Revised Edition (Battletech)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Proof Positive!	At least, in that FASA has charted out the Battletech universe for a while.  Why?  If you look in the Field Manual series (go ahead, check out FedSuns and Lyrans, I'll wait...), you'll notice they include new technology.  Most of this new tech was included in MaxTech, except for the Lyran new stuff.<br />Basically, this is, as they say, an official house rules book for Battletech.  They add in a bevy of alternate rules, new accessories (Light Gauss Rifle, Medium-Range Missiles), and new systems (gasoline-powered AgroMechs, anyone?).<br />It's a pretty decent book.  Most of the new equipment is experimental, and not that useful, but could be fun for short-term use.  They also include a nifty Battle Value Calculator, and give ratings to each and every published 'Mech and vehicle as of printing.  There are also nifty tables listing every single thing you could possibly put on a 'Mech you're building, which is also helpful.<br />If you play Battletech, this is a useful purchase.  It's not a must-have, but I'd recommend it.	2001-02-06
US	49588959	RT6ZV0VU2SK5A	0812555171	647047632	Expiration Date	Books	4	7	11	N	N	&quot;You got your Last Call in my Expiration Date!&quot;	I read Last Call, and thought it was wonderful; if I ever go to Las Vegas, I'll be sure to watch the patterns the smoke makes around the poker table.  The Tarot imagery was great, and the entire book was just one big cool concept.<br />I read Expiration Date, and thought the ghost-chasing and eating plots were wonderful, especially since so much of it derived from known eccentricities.<br />And then, comes Earthquake Weather, where the protagonists from each novel meet and work together to raise the King of the West from the dead, along with a host of new characters.<br />It's not a bad novel at all; that's why it gets four stars.  As usual, Powers writes very well, with good characterization and intelligent plotting.  <br />My issue with it is...it's a team-up book, like Spiderman Vs. Superman.  Part of the fun is the learning experience of the main characters, as they figure out what the heck is going on and how to survive.  We see that from the main character, but then we have the characters of the previous two novels, who should know what to do...but don't.  Somehow, that aspect bothered me far more than I'd've thought.<br />It's still a good novel, but I'm pretty sure it could've been better.	2001-01-31
US	49588959	R16UIUQE9YU8ZZ	1555603866	365688265	Mechwarrior, Third Edition: The Battletech Roleplaying Game	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Third time the charm?	Mechwarrior has had three incarnations.  It's had very good sales, mostly because it's part of FASA's Battletech juggernaut.  However, one of the problems it's had is that while the sales are good, the number of people who actually play the Mechwarrior RPG is much smaller than you'd think.  Most people use this as a reference book, or light reading (I'm one of the latter).<br />Many companies wouldn't care about that...they'd look at the sales numbers, throw a party, and not worry about it.  But FASA does (or did...given that they're soon to be out of business).  So, they retooled the Mechwarrior RPG in an attempt to make it more than just &quot;what the 'Mech pilot does on his/her off hours&quot;, into an actual sci-fi RPG.<br />How'd they do?  Not bad.  Character creation is reminiscent vaguely of Traveller, and also of FASA's old line, Renegade Legion (which was a fun universe...check your local used bookstore!), in that your character is run through several lifepaths, depending on what they start out as.  Some parts of it are confusing, in that I'm *still* trying to figure out where the bonus points go.<br />The system is okay, but nothing to speak of.  The largest chapter, after character creation, is combat, of course.  You also get equipment, example characters, a nice little vignette, and, of course, the required Big Honking Mass of Universe Information.<br />That, of course, is the meat and potatoes of this book.  It's a great universe, and very well-developed.  This is more of an introduction, though; there's so much to know you literally cannot place it in one book.<br />Good things:  It's a neat little rpg, with a good background and okay mechanics.<br />Bad things:  I'm still not clear on character creation, and I *still* don't know anybody who plays this.<br />Bottom line, it's definitely worth a look, and it's a great introduction, but it's not the best thing out there.	2001-01-30
US	49588959	R1K1RUA1TZAHCJ	0345379047	573010579	Quest for Lost Heroes (Drenai Tales, Book 3)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Gemmell at his finest...	I could've sworn I already wrote this up.  Oh, well.<br />Chronologically, this is set after The King Beyond the Gate, and before Winter Warriors, making it the next-to-last book in the Drenai Saga.  It is set in New Gulgothir, the pitiful remnant of the Gothir nation, that we first saw the Nadir crush at the beginning of Legend.<br />In this novel, a boy's quest to rescue a fellow villager from slavers crosses that of Chareos, Maggrig, Finn, and Belzer, the four survivors of an epic stand against the Nadir horde, led by Tenaka Khan.  Ever since, the mysterious circumstances of that survival have dogged them, and now they learn the vast cosmic reason for their survival.<br />This is, in my opinion, Gemmell's second best novel (only to be bettered by Legend).  He writes best about how people go about dying...not the &quot;littering of bodies&quot;, necessarily, but the decisions and reasons people make, and the circumstances they face, and how they present themselves.  It's an utterly beautiful novel, and it sets up another great story that's itching to be told.<br />I heartily recommend this novel.	2001-01-30
US	49588959	R3HY5862G0FVUG	0786916478	531912204	Hero Builder's Guidebook (Dungeons & Dragons d20 3.0 Fantasy Roleplaying)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	Really good for new players, so-so for experienced players	On the whole, it's not bad.  If I'd never played D&amp;D before, I'd've really appreciated it.<br />Basically, the book details character races and classes, and helps out with background information.  There's also a nifty alignment test to take, as well, so you can figure out which alignment would best suit your character.<br />Now, most of this information will be old hat to anybody who's played much at all...everybody knows what dwarves are supposed to act like, elves, etc.  Any experienced player should be able to generate their own background, and act like their alignment...but it's still handy, anyway, just for a few things you may've forgotten, or ideas when you can't think of any.  The best thing to do, as has been mentioned, is to have one person buy it, and then everyone reads it at their leisure.	2001-01-17
US	49588959	R4JKURJEBB7R6	0671000705	314458397	Echo Platoon (Rogue Warrior)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Great fights, clever plots, great voices	This is still one of the best-written series I've read.  In a long, long time.<br />I'm still surprised I picked the first one up, but I kept getting each one as they came out, and Mr. Marcinko and Mr. Weisman are now on my hardback list.  Each of these novels is consistently entertaining, and I heartily recommend you read the entire series; there are references to events in previous books, and while each book stands alone, it's nice knowing exactly how some things happened.<br />Now, on to Echo Platoon.  It follows a similar formula to the other books in the series:  Dick winds up in a sticky situation, investigates, identifies the bad guy, and deals with him/her/it in a spectacular fashion.  In this installment, we find Dick on a training/intelligence mission to Azerbaijan, where they suddenly find themselves having to rescute hostages from an oil rig.  This develops as Dick finds out that Russia and Iran both have agents on scene trying to influence the tiny nation, and between them both is the Sirzhik Foundation, run by a not-entirely-honest Steve Sarkesian.<br />There are familiar faces and new, and lots of political commentary and military insight.  We also see loved ones die, and some people who'll never fight again.  And, of course, lots of creative and intelligent fight scenes.<br />I like these books; I sometimes use them as fodder for my Shadowrun character to imitate.  The only flaw with this novel was, really, that the ending felt a bit chopped off.  Other than that, it's a great read.	2001-01-16
US	49588959	R27VLKKFNDLNTZ	038072846X	840982049	Last Call	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Wow...	When I go to Vegas, I'm definitely going to have to pay attention to the cigarette smoke.  Not that I expect things in real life to happen like the events and magic in this book, but it's so good, I expect it to.<br />It starts being about people playing poker.  It ends up being about a battle for the Kingship of the West, with a immensely powerful Tarot deck as the weapon.<br />Beyond that, you'll have to read the book.  I highly recommend it, both because it's a really good story, and because Mr. Powers' writing is very well done.<br />In the event you're a role-player, I have a definite feeling this is one of the roots for Unknown Armies, and it has a major influence on Kenneth Hite's writing (in the Suppressed Transmission).  It makes me want to play a UA game so bad, it isn't funny.<br />Read it.	2001-01-15
US	49588959	R3UDY22F7YP5MW	1556344236	405017034	Suppressed Transmission: The First Broadcast	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Best Column from the Best Online Magazine	If you're a gamer, it's a good idea to subscribe to Steve Jackson Games' Pyramid online magazine...if nothing else, because you get to read the Suppressed Transmission, Ken Hite's weekly column on fringe theory for gaming.  This book is a compilation of the best columns, covering a variety of subjects, from pole shifts to the Tunguska blast to, and this was my favorite, the occult nature of Coca-Cola.<br />Mr. Hite has a distinctive writing style; it's slightly dense, a tad erudite, but very, very readable, and downright funny, when you think about it.  When I go to Pyramid every Friday, his is the first column I go to.  <br />If you're at all into gaming, or fringe theory, this is a great book.  It's easily the most useful gaming product I've purchased in the last two years.	2000-12-28
US	49588959	R10UK9JNZHIN9Z	0441304834	453010069	Guilty Pleasures (Anita Blake Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Actually, pretty darn good...	...or so says someone who thinks that vampires make fun hunting subjects in Werewolf: The Apocalypse games.  And, I watch Buffy, too, and really don't see what people like about leeches.<br />But that's beside the point.  It doesn't hurt that Anita Blake is the area's licensed vampire executioner, though, at 24, she's a *tad* young for that, I'd think.  It also doesn't hurt that the viewpoint character thinks *all* vampires are monsters...some less than others, but all are bad, just the same.  <br />For all intents and purposes, this is a great start to a series.  The writing and characterization are consistently high-grade, and the plots are fairly well-thought-out.  The heroine, who isn't a high-octane walking death machine, has to use her wits and tools to achieve her objectives, which is usually fodder for better stories.  The alternate history is also quite good; she doesn't tell us, she shows us, in seamlessly dropped-in references:  &quot;Wait, I thought lamiae were extinct!&quot; (from a later book, mind you).  <br />The only thing I wasn't particularly enthusiastic about is the sexuality; I tend towards prudishness in my reading, and while there's nothing particularly bad in this book, as the series goes along, I keep getting the feeling I'm not the target audience.  Yet, I still keep buying additional books.  It's that good.	2000-10-31
US	49588959	R17LDNZ2LGHI5H	1555603963	298678232	Classic Battletech: Field Manual: Lyran Alliance (FAS1720)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Well-Done, Bad Subject...	The Lyran Alliance is, IMNAAHO, a carnival of traitors.  Well, no, that's not true, Katherine Steiner-Davion is.  But reading the Lyran Alliance  book, I don't get the impression of honor, courage, and proficiency that I  get from the FedSuns, Combine, or even Capellan militaries.<br />This is the  last of the Field Manuals.  As such, it follows all the various  conventions, with military information, unit histories, so on, and so  forth.  It also includes new equipment and tech.<br />My impressions were  fairly negative.  Don't get me wrong, it was well-presented, hence the four  stars.  But, near as I can tell, the Lyrans, as presented by FASA, are a  bunch of idiots.  Their military is woefully inexperienced, comparatively,  which does go with their tradition; you'd've thought they'd've learned  *something* from fighting the Clans, and working with the most competent  military in the Inner Sphere.  The Heavy Gauss Rifle, while also in keeping  with the Lyran character, is rather... cheesy, really.  The Light Engine is  okay, but the background proves Katherine's sheer idiocy.  The Fenrir armor  just looks incredibly stupid; I wonder where on earth the trooper would fit  into the armor, if at all.<br />If you see the Federated Suns review I wrote,  you'll know I really like them.  I used to like the Lyran Commonwealth,  too, but, now, with the plot going the way it is, not any more.  I might  have to start reading the novels now.	2000-08-31
US	49588959	R1YLR82FLUV4NO	0609802232	333501354	The Mars Mystery: The Secret Connection Between Earth and the Red Planet	Books	4	35	45	N	N	Positively Striking	Graham Hancock, if you hadn't already noticed, is a tad off his rocker.  He has a bad tendency to leap to conclusions from minimal evidence, and,  so, I wouldn't always agree with everything he says.<br />However, he is two  things:  Entertaining, and sometimes right.  This book is no exception.  It  has a rather broad focus, leaping from Mars to Earth and outer space and  back again.  His main thesis is that Mars was terrestrial and habitable as  recently as 20,000 years ago, with a similar civilization to his version of  Atlantis, and that related catastrophes destroyed the Martian civilization,  while severely crippling the Terran one.<br />On the whole, his theories are a  tad shaky.  Yes, Cydonia looks like it's artificial, and that might be the  most likely solution, but there's still nothing proving it.  Even the  mathematical ratios the researchers found are still not beyond the vale of  coincidence.  Similarly, his evidence for Atlantis isn't decisive, at least  to my mind.  I'm inclined to believe him, but mostly because the idea's  just really cool.<br />The one thing that I don't have any trouble believing  is his theory about the Taurid meteor swarm.  Noting that the Tunguska and  Canterbury events, as well as several other large meteor strikes, happened  in the same time, convinces me that we *do* need something to watch for  NEOs.  (The incredible thing is that he never even comes close to the idea  that the Tunguska blast was an alien ship...he's not that kind of  lunatic)<br />This is a good book to pick up and read, if you get the chance.  He might not be entirely all there, but he's entertaining, and he asks some  very interesting questions, which often he has the best answer for.	2000-08-30
US	49588959	RSLSWU9TVHAXA	0345379020	84321723	Ghost King (The Stones of Power)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	The First I Ever Read...	Well, one time I was coming home from school, and wandering through the  Cincinnati airport looking for something to read.  I ran across this book,  and devoured it on the way home.  (For some reason, the little kiosk in the  &quot;Puddle-jumper&quot; concourse of the Cincy airport always has good  books...it's uncanny, really)<br />For all intents and purposes, this is a  re-working of the Arthur story, where we meet Arthur as a young Romanized  Briton.  He gets taken in by a near-immortal Atlantean warrior after his  father is killed by other nobles, and trained to take care of himself.  He  then goes on a quest to find the sword his father threw to the Lady in the  Lake, in an alternate universe ruled by an insane Atlantean  sorceress.<br />What's really interesting is that Mr. Gemmell weaves a lot of  real-life history into his work, making it very realistic.  It is indeed  far more likely that the &quot;real&quot; Arthur was simply a Romanized  Briton, fighting after the Empire's exit from the Isles.  The Legion that  he finds in the Mist was actually destroyed, except for its auxiliary  cavalry, in the Iceni revolt; instead, in this, they were exiled into the  Mist in a fit of pique.<br />The Sipstrassi stones are also interesting...they  allow magic, but a limited supply exists, which is a good limiting  mechanic.<br />This is a very good book to pick up.  The second in the series  is a sequel, and then the next three are the rather unique John Shannow  (post-apocalyptic gunslinger) novels, which are worth their weight in gold.   They're set in the same continuity, also.  Much of the cosmology  (particularly the cataclysm bits) derive heavily from modern fringe theory.   I won't go into that, but to say that it's never had a better use.	2000-08-28
US	49588959	R1S6EPET43GMBZ	0345379071	674907247	Waylander (Drenai Tales, Book 4)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	First Redemption	Note:  There are a few spoilers.<br />I once read an interview from Mr.  Gemmell stating that this was his first attempt at writing a redemption  story.  As such, there are some areas that are, well, less than his normal  stellar writing.  Then again, I consider him leagues ahead of most writers,  so he gets 4 stars.<br />The basic plot is that the Drenai are being  ethnically cleansed from the face of the earth.  Waylander, the  protagonist, helped start the war by assassinating the king of the Drenai.   As a means of atoning, he is commissioned by the father of the dead king to  find the Armor of Bronze, which will rally the Drenai against the invaders,  win the war, and save their nation.  Along the way, he falls in love,  indirectly leads to the creation of the Temple of the Thirty, and helps  redeem several other characters who, like him, operated on the edge of  society.<br />Sounds trite, no?  Well, yes, actually, it does.  The key to Mr.  Gemmell's writing is that he's very good at characterization.  Everything  seems natural, nothing is forced.  He's always a joy to read.  The  consequences of his characters' acts sometimes ring down for  generations...in one moment, a single act leads directly to the creation of  one of the world's greatest forces for good.  Likewise, Waylander still  faces repercussions from his slaughter of the Drenai king 50 years later,  in Hero in the Shadows.<br />Go.  Read him.	2000-08-22
US	49588959	R1OWS1TJLRLM95	0345432304	185956189	Winter Warriors (Drenai Tales, Book 8)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	As Always, A Great Read	This is the first book I ever purchased from Amazon, so I feel a special responsibility to review it.  <br />As other people have said, this does have a similar feel to Quest for Lost Heroes.  It's the latest in the  chronology, set some 200 years after QFLH, and the Drenai (a vaguely  Greco-Roman hybrid) version of Alexander the Great is off conquering the  vaguely Persian empire.  As the book opens, the older warriors are being  sent home, as their enlistments are up.  We're introduced to the three main  characters, and the book goes from there into the obligatory great magical  threat.<br />The writing is very good; Mr. Gemmell only improves as he goes  along (aside from the fact that Legend still was his masterpiece), and  certain scenes are enormously powerful, such as one of the main character's  self-sacrifice.  <br />One thing I noticed is that the cosmology of the Drenai  keeps changing.  We've had the Source and demons, but the depiction of the  demons in this novel, as the Windborn, is more than we've ever had.  It  does explain their love of being summoned, but at the same time, I found it  a bit...odd.  It doesn't detract from the book at all, but it's worth  noting.<br />All in all, a great read, especially since it's paperback.	2000-07-13
US	49588959	R2DIMQMC4HN476	1555603572	472502374	Classic Battletech: Shattered Sphere (FAS1712) (Battletech Series, 1712)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Very Useful	I don't know about you, but I have neither the financial resources, time, or particular desire to try and keep up with the novels.  FASA realizes this, so they give us Shattered Sphere.<br />Basically, this book is a status  update, similar to the long-out-of-print 30-year Update book, published  just before the Clans appeared.  It doesn't go into great detail on  anything, but is very general about everything.  It's told from the point  of view of Victor Steiner-Davion's intelligence chief, so there is a bit of  bias there (i.e. Draconis Combine's okay, but the Capellans and Katherine  Steiner-Davion are EVIL).<br />It's a very, very handy book.  It should be a  required purchase for anyone who owns Mechwarrior 3rd edition, and if  you're at all interested in the politics behind the universe, for  Battletech fans, too.  If there'd been more (like, say, if it'd been twice  the size), it'd've gotten five stars.	2000-07-12
US	49588959	RV8FIAB0Y01FB	0140096507	169053954	The Price of Admiralty: The Evolution of Naval Warfare from Trafalgar to Midway	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Beautiful!	I always loved the Navy; I'm not sure why, but I loved the idea of ships duelling each other.  I imagine that if I had one past life, it'd've been on the deck of a Royal Navy battleship, fighting the Franco-Spanish fleet  at Trafalgar, or the German High Seas Fleet at Jutland.<br />I rather enjoyed  this book, if you hadn't guessed yet.  It's an intelligent analysis of four  major fleet actions (counting a convoy as a fleet), discussing how  technology changes the constraints and requirements of naval warfare.  <br />I  particularly enjoyed the accounts of the first two battles, Trafalgar and  Jutland.  The latter two were less enjoyable, since I already knew a great  deal about Midway, and wasn't that interested in submarines.  However, all  four accounts are instructive.<br />If you're at all interested in military  history, and especially in naval history, this is a wonderful book for you.   Anything that Keegan writes, actually, is good.	2000-07-11
US	49588959	RXPXPZIQABSSU	1555603718	874993518	Shadowrun (3rd Edition)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Very good, could've been a wee bit better	Way back in 1990, I wandered through the bookstore and saw Shadowrun, 1st edition.  I got it.  It was an enjoyable game, but I never really got to play it until 2nd edition, Freshman year, which was *all* I played in  college.<br />So, I have most, if not all, of the sourcebooks, and I consider  myself a diehard fan.  When I saw the new edition, I had mixed  reactions.<br />Some of the good points are that it looks nicer now, and that  character creation has been cleaned up and improved...suddenly, metahumans  are a lot more common than they used to be.  They cleaned up a lot of  rules, and rationalized things, which happens when you've got a bunch of  supplements for each area out there.<br />Bad things...well, I'm not convinced  they've fixed magic quite the way they want to.  The skills are kind of  odd...I like having the background/knowledge skills, and the extra skill  points, but certain decisions are just odd.  There's no good reason to have  separate skills for shotgun, rifle, and assault rifle, as they work the  same.  I'd've used something like Millenium's End's way, which has skills  for smallarms, longarms, and autofire, and use the lowest of the  appropriate skills (i.e. if I'm using a rifle, I use longarm, but if I'm  firing a burst, use autofire).<br />All in all, it's a good book.  The system  had gotten overly sprawling, and this reboot was pretty much necessary to  rationalize everything.	2000-06-30
US	49588959	RZMUILVFJLDEA	0786914041	333113678	The Spine of the World (Forgotten Realms:  Paths of Darkness, Book 2)	Books	3	14	18	N	N	Starts out slow, then suddenly better	I picked up this book in paperback, because while the first couple Drizzt books were good, the last few have, well, stunk.  I'm actually rather glad he's not in the book, and I'd've appreciated it if those journal entries  were gone.  Oh, well.  The last novel was only readable because of Wulfgar  and Artemis Entreri (who I believe is the focus of the next novel...which  should be good).<br />In this novel, Wulfgar's story is interspersed with that  of a peasant girl in a small realm in the North.  Obviously, they come  together at some point, and the book actually doesn't get good until after  Wulfgar and his friend leave Luskan.  Before that, he mostly wallows in  self-pity; while understandable, 200 pages of that is rather uninteresting.   <br />The book becomes much more pleasant to read once Wulfgar starts  confronting his problems, rather than avoiding them through massive  drinking bouts.  The end is rather satisfying, actually.<br />Problems with  this include the dialogue; I'm not that convinced that Salvatore writes  dialogue well.  The peasant boy, Jaka Sculi, is an acute case; while I  suspect Salvatore might be trying to convey his feigned romanticism, he  doesn't do it that well, and this character's lines feel forced.  The other  characters are spotty, and Salvatore could really do better at imparting  their motivations without using a brick.  <br />All in all, a decent book.   It's not literature, but it's not meant to be, either.	2000-06-27
US	49588959	RPJAET198MHX4	0520215990	302932467	In Search of the Trojan War, Updated edition	Books	5	28	32	N	N	A Classic Classicist	Here's the thing I like about Wood; he gets excited about the little things.  It comes through best on the BBC/PBS specials, but when going through the book, you see it shine through as well.  He absolutely *loves*  what he writes about, and as a result, he's one of the most entertaining  authors I've come across.<br />I read this book for one of my mythology  classes, and it's one of the few that I kept.  It's very well-written, and  just utterly fascinating.  It's interesting to know just how sophisticated  Bronze Age civilizations really were, and that we're not that superior to  them after all.  Reading about the Hittites made me want to visit Turkey  (after hitting Hissarlik, of course!).<br />The best part, though, was an  anecdote about a clay tablet found still in an oven, composed by a king  calling for assistance from his overlord.  Reading the emotions of the  writer between the lines, thousands of years after this tablet was made,  was incredibly moving.<br />Darn, I love this book.	2000-06-15
US	49588959	R5EBO2B73CAQQ	0671877399	419839825	1945	Books	3	15	18	N	N	Surprisingly decent, once the action starts	I borrowed this and read it in a day, because, well, I had to go back to school.  <br />Amazingly enough, I did enjoy this, up to a point.  After the &quot;gimme&quot;, it sets up an interesting premise (which I won't bother  going into).  Unfortunately, the dialogue and writing are atrocious, for  the most part.  I'm fairly sure real people did not and do not speak the  way they do in this novel.  Also, the writers are rather tech-happy, too  much so for their own good.<br />Now, the saving grace in this book is the  raid on Oak Ridge.  Forschten/Gingrich wrote this very well, and I was  deeply impressed.  I also thought the political element (i.e. the locals  taking to arms to defend against the raid) were nicely put, but not  obtrusive.<br />It is unfortunate that the sequel, Fortress America, never  found a publisher.  Oh, well.  Maybe in a few years, it will.	2000-06-09
US	49588959	R3J9JGTNQAY8JW	0679746641	606133912	Fields of Battle: The Wars for North America	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Utterly Beautiful Traveling Book	This is my traveling book.  I bring it with me anytime I go on a long trip, precisely for the way that Keegan writes about his travels in the U.S.  It is a change in style for him, yes; however, it's just as good as  his normal style, albeit in a different way.  <br />For those who haven't read  it, it basically goes over four major battles in American/Canadian  history...The Plains of Abraham, Yorktown, the Seven Days, and Custer's  Last Stand.  The latter, as someone else mentioned, I thought was the most  useful, simply because I knew very few of the details involved.  Yorktown I  thought was the weakest, though it was also the broadest, discussing the  end of the Revolutionary War.<br />If you get a chance, get this book.  Maybe  you should preview it from the library at first, but I found it a very,  very good book.  I'm just upset I didn't get the hardcover.	2000-06-09
US	49588959	R1LJZ6EZ8NUSEU	0312964137	282604606	Psychic Warrior: The True Story of America's Foremost Psychic Spy and the Cover-Up of the CIA's Top-Secret Stargate Program	Books	2	4	11	N	N	Sooooo Glad I Got It From The Library...	In this autobiography, we read about Mr. Morehouse's experiences as a part of the U.S. military's remote viewing project.  I picked this up because I like the idea of psionics and psychic powers, and thought it might make interesting reading.<br />Sadly, I was wrong.<br />Without going into too much detail, I cannot believe what the author is trying to tell me.  There are too many inconsistencies in his reactions and what he tells his readers.  One example is his &quot;borrowing&quot; classified information to serve as possible protection later...when he says he had no inkling he might have anything to worry about from being a part of the project.<br />He also isn't the best of writers.  This can be fixed with judicious editing, but that seems to be lacking.  Yes, he probably isn't trained to write dialogue, but the effect is to make the dialogue unbelievable, and convince me that he's not being entirely honest.<br />Perhaps I'm being too harsh.  I don't think so, though.  I *laughed* reading this book.  It's not supposed to be funny.  I wanted to like this book...as I said above, I like the idea of psychic powers, but reading this book is almost enough to convince one that they don't, in fact, exist.	2000-05-22
US	49588959	RO4019OVW35Y7	1555603750	828231855	The Cannon Companion: A Shadowrun Sourcebook (Fasa)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	So Many Weapons, So Few Hands	The single best sourcebook for SR2 ever, IMHO, was Fields of Fire.  While this doesn't overshadow FoF, it's good in its own right.<br />First, it gives updated stats for a lot of handy forms of equipment...things like  collapsible batons, scuba gear, and other such things that didn't make it  into the base set.<br />Then, you get new rules, like martial arts (eh), BTLs  (which I haven't found a use for), and, of course, the gun-building  rules...which are geared towards custom jobs, rather than mass-produced  weapons.  I and my friend ate up this section, of course.<br />Next, there're  rules clarifications, much of which originated in FoF.  The Strength-based  recoil-reduction rules have been toned down so they're less open to abuse,  which I grudgingly admit is a good idea.<br />Finally, there's a humongous  table listing weapons, armor, and other equipment.  Sadly, they don't  include cyber- or deckerware for completeness.  <br />This, however, is a  great and beautiful book.	2000-05-19
US	49588959	R3JDB8CP9Y7M2	0345432231	130373336	Hero in the Shadows: A Waylander the Slayer Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great!	David Gemmell is one of the best fantasy authors today.  I only regret that we don't get his latest work here in the U.S.  He really shines at writing about the last days of older characters...books like Legend and  Quest for Lost Heroes exemplify this.  He's now on my Hardback-Must-Buy  list.	2000-05-03
