US	49580074	R1QV8ATIMC6BX1	0738205613	98456062	Microchip: An Idea, Its Genesis, And The Revolution It Created	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Not Worth Your Time	It always seems to be a shame to see such a great story, the development of the microchip, turned into a sort of turgid exposition of bad writing overlayed with the veneer of a strained plot.<br /><br />The essential problem with this book if twofold in my estimation:<br /><br />1) it lacks any central defining thesis or reocurring thematic elements in which to group the story of semiconductor design and development.<br /><br />2) There is a strained attempt to overlay the background of the \\"exciting individuals\\" and entrepeneurial hype associated with these people as a central element of the book. Although I am sure that there are some interesting anecdotes here about some rather idiosyncratic personalities, authoritarian personalities and science/tech nerds, the stories aren't told too tolerably well.<br /><br />Also annoying is the lack of any diagrams to describe any of the features and fundemental designs for the semiconductors. I am not talking about circuit designs, I am talking about schematic diagrams common in any well written pop-science book. If the writing was clearer the prose could stand alone even without such diagrams, but as it was I had to give up on the text after about half way through.<br /><br />In sum, the author is trying to tell a narrative history of the semiconductor. But the story just does not come off and I am left sort of shaking my head not exaclty knowing what it is I am getting from the investment of time in this book. For better reads on technology I would recommend \\"ENIAC\\" and \\"Silicon Valley Snake Oil\\" for those who love exciting reads and clear descriptions of technology for the layperson.	2005-10-10
US	49580074	RLDPE4GH0DRG6	0330480650	244955233	The Imperial War Museum Book of the War in Burma 1942-1945 (Pan Grand Strategy Series)	Books	4	13	14	N	Y	The Best "Shorter" Introduction to the War in Burma	Although this is not one of the more famous books on the war in Burma, it is one of the best and covers nearly all of the war with tolerably good writing and extant reference and use of first-hand experiences from the British and Empire soldiers.<br /><br />No major geographical area of the war is left out: Preparation and contact with the ememy and the fighting withdrawal is well described. The amphibuous operations in the Arakan, the mountainous warfare in Imphal/ Kohima, the follow up and eventual capture of Mytkylia, the fall of Rangoon and the final operations in the Pegu Yomas are all here providing a well written overview.<br /><br />The main goal of the Imperial War Museum Books series is to use first-person accounts as much as possible in the text. I would say that the usage can at times be rather thick but it does not take away from the general flow of the narrative.<br /><br />Reminicenses of Empire soldiers, especially the Royal Indian Army, that made up the bulk of the attacks in Burma are lacking, and Thompson is the first to admit and regret this... there is simply not that much written down... (in fairness I am sure that there is a lot of memoirs in India, but they are not readily available in England and Thompson was using what he has from the Imperial War Museum).<br /><br />Also there is little on the operational views of the Japanese but that requires a historian who is capable of reading Japanese sources... once again Louis Allan's book \\"Burma: The Longest War\\" is the definitive read on Japanese intentions and assessments).<br /><br />There is also a curious aside on what must be one of the most hotly debated subjects of WWII: the effectivness and supposed genius of Major Gen Orde Wingate. I will say little of this, but that this is again an Army man (Thompson) evaluating him in Army terms.... I agree with his analyses. I will leave it at that as the discussion is quite long and involved for a book of this length.<br /><br />All in all the best intro to the Burma campaign available in print.in all the best intro to the Burma campaign available in print.	2005-10-10
US	49580074	R2QX3PNE1ROVVL	0192802542	922502319	Dada and Surrealism: A Very Short Introduction (Very Short Introductions)	Books	4	25	25	N	Y	A Very Good, Well Balanced Overview	As a person with an enduring fascination and respect for the early Dadaists I found this introduction offered a very good and (despite the title) in-depth coverage of most aspects of Dada and Surrealism.<br /><br />The theme is comparison and contrast and also the development of thematic elements in both currents: how they rose to, or challenged each other and society. The basic differences in Dada as Anti-Art and Surrealism as Art-for-arts sake is well considered. The latter bourgoeise taste was very much derided by the original Dadas. The political development of both groups is also analysed, their stances on feminism, colonialism and mass movements.<br /><br />The one thing that I found not covered in this book -- and is also not covered in most books on this subject is, how two movements with such anti-establishment themes fared in the sometimes authoritarian societies that spawned them... how for example were the German Dadaist allowed to escape the Freikorps and later the Nazis? What did Franco think of Dali and Picasso? Some French Dada/Surrealists such as Andre Breton were able to escape from Vichy France to America, but what about the others...?<br /><br />In short, although both streams rebelled against the main thoughts that dominated society -- they were almost all consumate individualists -- how were they able to do so? Since most Dadaists survived WWII I must surmise that either Hitler left them alone, or they lowered their profile to such a degree that they become insignificant. But again, since they were at the forefront of criticising the automaton man that society produced in WWI, the question remains, how did they manage to avoid getting it in the neck when the rest of the world was racing headlong into the twin dispairs of Fascism and Communism?	2005-09-05
US	49580074	R36BMVFZBKG6QB	0140187650	256512110	Eichmann in Jerusalem: A Report on the Banality of Evil	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Eichman and the destruction of European Jewry	I approached the book with a mistaken notion that the book was a formal analysis of evil using Eichman as touching point to focus on analytic issues.     I was surprised to find out the book is really a history of the destruction of European Jewry using Eichman as a counterpoint to discuss the entire German policy towards Jews, its relevance in a context of international war tribunals -- both moral and legalistic. Arendt weaves an interesting historical-geographical narrative of the holocaust, continually bringing Eichman into the Nazi policies -- what he could have know and not known, what he could have done and not done -- and his reaction to the twists and turns of Nazi logic and mass murder.     The end result is an analysis of a man who, while not standing for everyman, certainly points out how the mind of a person could engage and justify conduct in some of the world's worst crimes.     Eichman is no cut-out posterchild for evil. Arendt being brutally honest, shows Eichman as a person with human emotions who is clearly making conscious moral decisions on a daily basis: the problem of course is his role in making decisions based upon process -- at times Eichman focuses on how it is important to be faithful to the right process of shipping the jews, seeking to place his role as that of the shipper, since he never did any direct butchering himself.     At other times Eichman portrays himself as an admirer and potential saviour of the Jews -- he was an ardent exponent of the transshipment of Jews to Madagascar as new colonisers, he also believed that his actual role allowed him to \\"save some Jews\\", thus mitigating an even worse outcome. Such are the utilitarian and Kantian arguments that Eichman used, and in which he actually believed.     But there is also the side of the man who was distressed when he learned that trains may be leaving empty from transhipment points in Europe, when they could be carrying Jews and Gypsies. Eichman had to be faithful to doing hisjob well. That meant full trains. The Eichman that chastised his superiors when, at the end of the war, they wanted to save their own skins and mitigated Hitler's orders to kill even more Jews. To Eichman, these men were traitors to the ideal because they disobeyed orders.     Arendt only once uses the phrase \\"banality of evil\\" -- the Eichman that emerges is one of the person next door, decent in civil life, incapable of harming an animal directly without remorse, yet at the same time allows him/herself to participate in appalling crimes against the conscience of Man. Someone who clearly is capable of advanced moral reasoning yet allows themselves distance from the killing, by careful twists and turns of logic. In fact it is clear to Arendt that Eichmann is in some ways a problem for modern man and present certain legal questions that are relevant to the perpetrators of crimes against humanity in places like the Sudanand the former republic of Yugoslavia.    The Eichman that emerges is pitiful in the extreme. He is clearly not a monster in a rouges gallery. This is the most shocking thing that Arendt raises -- his seeming \\"normalness\\". Arendt even writes in such a way that we seem to feel a sympathy for this man (surely there was some mitigating circumstance --- one needed to be a beastly rouge to commit these murders -- Eichman is not that!). Sadly that is the very point that Arendt is making -- one need not be born into evil, nor ascribe to it ends (as certain Nazi's most certainly did), one merely had to allow oneself through a series of bad decisions, ambition, casuistry, and weak personality to be a functionnaire for the greatest killing machine in history.	2005-08-31
US	49580074	R18XN3TKDFZET7	0679730052	754470002	The Age of Extremes: A History of the World, 1914-1991	Books	4	23	25	N	N	Insightful and Well Considered Text	Hobesbawm is the master of looking at history in general terms, extrapolating general trends and terms in a way that are so obvious but generally overlooked by most mainstream historians. Like the fact that in the span of two generations a university education spread from less than 1% of the population of the Western industrialised countries to more than 40% of the population. In an even shorter period of time in 1930 1 in 4 people worked on a farm. Now 1 in 100 do. WIth a little reflection we can see the breakneck pace of the the speed of this short 20th Century (1914 - 1991).     Although the above may seem banal it has implications for the entire planet and is reflective of the changes in the way the world feeds itself to the way that industry organises itself around the processes of efficiency.     Hobesbawm also notes the reoccuring theme of the fate of what used to be called the industrial working class and how \\"class\\" as a term has become increasingly meaningless -- with modern well pampered industrialised union workers voting for Bush, because they have more in common with him than they do with with those in society who are truly powerless -- such as those comprising the unfortunate term -- the underclass. This is a constant bugbear for those who, clinging to traditional marxist interpretations, think that the underclass and the working class are and should be, one and same. It should also serve as pause for consideration for anyone who simply considers Hobesbawn a \\"Marxist Historian\\" -- he may be, but I never found a shred of evidence to butress this supposed self-evident truth.     Hobsbawm also points out the rise of the underclass has been in direct proportion with the rise of industrial and economic efficiency and the importance of knowledge-based industries. In what he calls the \\"Golden Age\\" (roughly from 1940 - 1970) industry was able to utilise almost any working person in some way or another. Scales of efficiency, globalisation and the microchip, have meant that the record low levels of unemployment of those times are a permanent thing of the past. There will alwayse be a permanent group of unemployable or under-employable people in our midst that will always be subject to the will of \\"market forces.\\" Having lived in partly in both worlds I would strongly agree with him. The societal effects of this permanent group are less clear, and Hobesbawm does not pretend to know all the answers.     One person once recommended Paul Johnson's \\"Modern Times\\" as an antidote for Hobsbawm. While Johnson is a wonderful romp, his conclusions and observations and general historiography are totally different. Hobsbawn has trenchent and at times profound analysis on Man and his historical condition. Johnson comes up as a wonderful, yet clearly lightweight intellect.    The only thing I can cite as not meeting my expectations was the fact that Hobsbawn writes historiography and he is little tempted to delve in to anecdotal evidence -- he mainly cites scholarly studies solid historical first sources -- to build up a case to butress his mostly common sense arguments. This lack of anecdotal evidence, the mark of historians such as Barbara Tuchman, means that the text can be dense at times and there are, at times, too many profound thoughts to be digested in a single read. Therefore I had to balance the text with a lighter historical read. But that should not be interpreted as a weakness, it is however a good excuse to read the book yet again.     A major tour de force for any thinking person whatever their political stripe.	2005-08-23
US	49580074	R3FPIFWPYU54F2	067410417X	573701346	The Causes of Wars: And Other Essays, Second Edition, Enlarged	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Standard International Relations Textbook on How Wars Begin	There is a lot of muddle about why wars start... with the average bloke on the street and (sadly) the average soldier, saying that \\"it is all inevitable\\" or \\"part of human nature.\\"  <br /> <br />In Howard's book this is clearly not the case... he explores a number of classical reasons for the causes of war, from the classical liberal interpretation (wars are caused by misunderstandings) to that of realists (power politics and need for balance of power), in between there is adequate consideration and historical detail of other reasoned explanations for war, including consideration of the Marxist analysis of the causes of war (perhaps now thoroughly irrelevant), and the fascist notion of might=right.  <br /> <br />Howard's style is academic but never boring and he accepts nothing at face value, or as being inevitable. In one of the better quotes from this book he states that \\"nothing is inevitable until it happens\\" -- I think that is the lesson of this book. We make the decisions that either lead or avoid war. Sometimes the causes are not directly attributable to a single source. We control our own destiny. <br /> <br />Having said that I think that Howard is really a liberal synthesis sort of academic. He is really into the importance of interpreting and sending clear messages (something that Nixon and Kissinger and even Clinton were good at). He cautions against the temptations of ideology and has the classic liberal notion that nation states only achieve their freedoms when they fight for it themselves. No nation can ever be given freedom. Therefore he would not be in favour of the kind of ideologically driven foreign policy of the current Bush adminstration.  <br /> <br />Like most traditional liberals and conservatives he would be against the rather bombastic ideological leadership which is losing American yet another war and speeding its global decline.  <br /> <br />	2005-06-22
US	49580074	R1651O39XB8S7L	0192803875	4897038	Mission to Tashkent	Books	4	4	6	N	Y	Bloody Good Yarn!	The British really had it together. At the end of WWI with revolution all over Central Asia (and a lot of other parts of the world), the collapse of monarchies, and civil strife in most countries, Britain was in imperial overreach turbo mode... How to deal with all of these troubles simultaneously while retaining the Empire?     Bailey gives you an idea of the kind of person, military man, cool headed, well educated, politically astute, able to command men in battle, fair and just: a reflection of a mindset that battle and force are the last resorts to settle conflict. A few good men on the ground, grinding up their shoe leather, sending out reports and defining the risk, ensured that Britain got involved only when empire and country were threatened.     Men on the ground made this decision and Bailey is your classical \\"our man in Tashkent\\" -- the hero of Buchan novels (which sadly few read anymore). His story is one daring escape after the other, double crosses within doublecrosses, and the ubiquitous agent provocateur which could be anyone.....    Bailey's journey through Central Asia was to assess the status of roaming Central Power troops and bloodthirsty bolsheviks -- always wearing guns to intimidate, and always failing with our hero Bailey. Bailey is at a disadvantage because he does not often have an good idea what his govt. is doing and so he engages in light banter with Bolsheviks who ask him how he gets off on coming to the heart of Bolshevist Central Asian, Turkestan when British troops are fighting against the Bolsheviks in Archangel and Baku? Since Bailey realises that the Bolsheviks are often as scarce of data as he is, he injects doubt into the conversation? How does the Commissar know that these were actually British troops? This suffices not because the Bolsheviks buy any of it, but because they are too busy planting agents speying on him to learn his \\"true\\" purpose and whomsoever in the counterrevolutionary movement he may be dealing with.    Still this game can only be played so long and then it is time for Bailey to hide, and hide fast as the Bolsheviks want his head. In a number of disguises our hero goes through questioning while dressed as a local, passes the bolsheviks in a purloined Austrian uniform and, moving from safe-house to safe-house and knowing how to survive in the desert, he conducts espionage against the Bolsheviks and lives a life always just one half step ahead of the bolsheviks... sometimes they were literally yards away from him....     This true story by an incredibly self-effacing man has something of import for the modern world. I kept thinking that the situation at the end of the World War was at least as worse (or worse) than the present time in Central Asia and the Middle East. People in 1918 were worried Bolshevism would sweep the world order away as everywhere the objective facts seemed to support the inexorable rise of the Reds. But the British (more or less) kept their heads and deployed resources rather wisely. They built up whole generations of people schooled in the culture of the Empire. Say what you want about Imperialism in general, but the particular variant of British Colonialism engendered a respect for local languages and cultures, and a notion that there were firm limits on the extent of direct control by \\"boots on the ground\\" -- and if boots were not necessary, or simply too expensive then people like Col. Bailey were the men to monitor and look after British interests, by subterfuge and stealth -- they never had the luxury of overwhelming force.     His tale is moving, heart thumping in detail, while being understated -- this man wanted no praise.     As such I could not help thinking what went wrong and why the modern imperialists like the US lack even a single person of this ilk, and why their culture did everything possible to thwart the nuturing of such spies before 2001. The US emphasis today is upon brute and overwhelming force to shape the world its image -- it is inward looking. Bailey and his contemporary British officers realised that a good man highly educated in the local languages and cultures, aware of the world so to speak, in the right place could obviate the need for an armed expedition, look after national interests... and make for a ripping read.    There is much the US can learn from men such as Bailey.	2005-06-20
US	49580074	R1CBQ9CNS4LUK2	0304356794	339698930	Cassell Military Classics: Military Mavericks: Extraordinary Men of Battle	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Not a Serious Study, but I don't think it was intended to be	Rooney writes what he wants to write about and there is usually little ground breaking work in any of his books. They usually serve as general introductions into other subjects. So this books offers a little light intro into 12 Military Commanders of all time. There is little to unite them except to lump them into being \\"mavericks\\" of a kind... though Rooney does not give us a definition of Maverick.  <br /> <br />In addition the book carries no analysis and little compilation. If one were to do one's own analysis then we can reach the assumption that mavericks: <br />1) Lead from the front  <br />2) Are passionate <br />3) Have a meglomaniacal belief in themselves (with the exception of Guderian) <br /> <br />Beyond that I really do not know what the selection of this disparate group of people is supposed to prove.  <br /> <br />I had low expectations. I just wanted a military book to cover a few historical areas in short, light chapters to be used for bathroom reading. In this sense the book admirably fulfilled my expectations. <br /> <br />An interesting note is that Rooney also uses this book to plug his idea of the \\"brilliance\\" of Orde Wingate... I personally disagree with his passion and I find the continued reference to every military leader in comparison with Wingate a little disconcerting and, frankly... odd...  <br /> <br />	2005-06-09
US	49580074	R2D5NJUV5P1A8F	0871138425	77869369	A Storm in Flanders: The Ypres Salient, 1914-1918: Tragedy and Triumph on the Western Front	Books	4	2	2	N	Y	BRITISH AND EMPIRE HISTORY FOR AMERICANS	This patch of earth in Flanders has the distinction of having more blood spilt over it that any other place on the face of the earth. That is a frightful fact and one that Groom admirably chronicles.     For anyone raised in Britain or the British Commonwealth the term Passchendale has become synonomous with a slow, oozing death and futility on a grand scale. As a Canadian (same for Australians and Brits) we were raised with a sense of terrific awe of the horrific suffering popularly believed to be inflicted by the sclerotic mind set of the High Command on the hapless soldiers living in the waning years of the Victorian era -- when truth, science, servitude and sacrifice to tradition were all smashed to pieces in the minds of men luckless enough to endure this hell. My grandfather endured it for 4 yrs. In the British Commonwealth fully 1/2 of all militarily eligible males volunteered for this war. 1/2 of these were either killed or maimed in body or mind. For the western Anglo-Saxon world, there never has been anything approaching it. Despite Americas contributions two world wars, people seldom know that their neighbour to the North, Canada sacrificed 60,000 soldiers in WWI (the equivalent in population terms of 600,000 US soldiers dieing. US losses in WWI were about 75,000 killed).     The above is important because Groom is an American. In the introduction he writes that his book is written for an American reader with little understanding of effect of this slaughter on the British and Empire soldiers -- his goal is to educate the American reader. Therefore the backgrounder Groom gives contains a good measure of the political nature of the commitment of the Overseas Empire Armies, the ANZACS and Canadians, as well as good intro to the tradition of the British Regimental System and the initial naive assumptions that suffused the mindset of not just the high-command, but the soldiers themselves.     Groom details contain the standard descriptions of the waterlogged ground, the wounded and living literally drowning in mud, and the incessant shelling and attack after attack against German positions in the face of horrendous casualties and a British Political System straining under the weight of the dead: Lloyd George's ragings against the exhortations of Haig, but his eventual accceptance of almost every attack. The tragic grinding down of the British Army and then the grinding into the earth of the Australians and eventual capture of the town of Passchendale, a mass of waterlogged shell holes and concrete swept on three sides by enemy fire, by the Canadian Corps.    Because Groom can write his pen lends an evocative counterpoint to this carnage that developed some of the best poets of the early century. It was as if the mind rebelling at mere words to describe the horror resorted to the only medium capable of plucking at human emotion -- poetry and prose. Robert Graves, AA Milne, Robert Owen, Sigfied Sassoon and others were schooled in this rain of shells and morass of mud and gas.     Grooms book covers little new ground and it is not an exhausting coverage of the battle. That is done in other volumes, all readily available (Leon Wolff's being among the best).  But if Groom can convey to the American people that they have not been alone in their sacrifices, that nations they assume to be irrelevant in their conscience, that do not support the war in Iraq or Bush's America, if Groom can show that these nations sacrificed much more than America ever has in terms of blood in the cause of liberty, then he has done his nation an amirable deed..... it is, after all. the main reason he wrote the book.	2005-05-31
US	49580074	R2GBDW8YTS3ZH5	0786715472	130678589	A Short History of Progress	Books	4	48	63	N	N	Very Good, Entertaining, Well Written and Flawed	The Massey Lectures series always yields solid academic scholarship and head food of the most rich type. And the lady in the Squamish bookstore assured me that this \\"was the must-read book of the year.\\" After reading this flawed, but good (not wonderful) book, I got the same feeling as when I was sold the overpriced French Medoc... I opened it with nervousness and with a thrill of a new adventure in taste -- when consumed, though good, I realised that I could have done just as well with a good Burgundy.  <br /> <br />Wright promises a lot, but although the prose are generally very good, they boil down often to deterministic truisms, with a few trite comments thrown in to boot.  <br /> <br />1) Underdevelopment of central, interesting ideas. His idea of elites adherence to methods obsolete and destructive, even though the signs of decline are all around, is interesting in that it is not (usually) couched in traditional neo-marxian explanations. This idea needs to be more fully explored -- how is it that drivers of SUVs, and George Bush's energy policy, are unwilling to modify their behaviour when the outcome is so destructive to the environment? But the Wright offers no explanation.  <br /> <br />2) Wright talks of \\"progress traps\\" and how Rome and Babylon fell as a result of entrenched, successful cultural practises that built empires then lead to their eventual destruction; the very success of a method (in the case of ancient Babylonians their wet agriculture lead to increased food yeilds, cities and wealth, but also, eventually salination and death of the soil --- and eventually death of the culture).  <br /> <br />Wright asserts that in every case progress begets eventual destruction. This is of course deterministic as Wright would probably agree since any successful culture and empire eventually crumbles. But short of finding a time eternal culture I really do not know if Wright is saying anything meaningful -- merely stating a truism.  <br /> <br />3) Which ofcourse leads to another implication --- also an idea that Wright tries to develop -- that progress is never a prophylactic against eventual demise. Again I am not sure this is really saying anything meaningful. It does however have a harmful implication in that Wright cannot see any hope in technology saving the world (in fact it will kill us he argues).  <br /> <br />Such books are the stuff that led JM Keynes to say \\"in the long run we are all dead.\\" The real question is what can man and women do in the here and now that can make a difference? Wright prose is great for the mind, but short of comforting those with excessive nihilist tendencies, this book offers really nothing of note in original ideas.  <br /> <br />Moreover the ending of the book begins to wander and Wright puts in a few atavistic attacks on the nature of capitalism with an equally naive statement about the moral neutrality of socialism... and some rather annoying notions of the life affirming nature of the nobel savage (ZZZzzz...!). Such trite comments detract from very serious ideas he has to say.  <br /> <br />I am a person who likes pondering the great ponderables, nihilistic or otherwise, but I am sure that after reading this book, although it was an intellectual comfort on a cold Canadian winter, there was not the promised expression of new ideas. Although the writing is good, the theses, ideas, and presentation are old hat... <br /> <br />Having said that it is a good read and I would strongly reccomend this book to any thinking person. I would rate it as one of the top 10 reads of the year and it is slim enough to knock off on a ferry trip back and forth to Vancouver Island (which I did whilst on vacation).       <br /> <br />	2005-05-25
US	49580074	R30OOXWNJSLM6M	0142001910	441465322	Tank	Books	4	7	10	N	N	AN INTELLECTUAL HISTORY OF TANKS	One thing you should be warned is that if you are a person obsessed only with detail of gun calibre, armour thickness, speed and tank design; if you are a person who loves the clash of metal and the wide sweep of panzers across open spaces; if you locked yourself in the toilet reading endless stats on the various tanks of the century while waiting for a bowel movement (I sure did) -- then this book may not be for you.     This is a book about the meaning of the tank. Whether it is as oppressive Behemoth, crusher of will or the imposition of force on either the field of battle or internal control of dissendent elements, this book explores the place in the consciousness of mankind of the Tank.     That means that the book enters ground never covered before and it would take someone who really knows how to write to pull this off. Patrick Wright writes extremely well and keeps up the entry of new ideas surrounding the tank and develops them well while keeping mind several thematic elements through the whole book.     In this sense Fuller, Alistair Crowley, Punk Culture (a concept introduced to describe German tank crews in the Western desert)poets and philosphers -- this is all relevant in the intellectual history of the tank.     What you really have is a very, very rare work here that in my estimation is extremely underrated. It is difficult to communicate the importance of this work. It is, in short, a book that should be read by both those who enjoy femminist literature and those who like to read cheap war novels -- try to do a sell on this book to those two different kinds of people! It is next to impossible, yet both groups would enjoy it! Both would understand its import. But again, try selling a book names \\"Tank\\" to both groups -- next to impossible.     Thematic elements to be enjoyed are JFC Fuller the \\"recycled occultist\\" whose interest in unorthodox strategy mixes as counter point to his own bizaare interest in eastern religions and his support for Fascism and anti-semitism. Later Fuller would be equally studied by the great Israeli tank generals.     He also contrasts the external usage of conquering external threats and those of crushing internal dissent -- something present since the advent of tanks and their use against Scottish trade unionists in Glasgow in 1919.     There is also the notion of protection to sheild people within from the horror without. Whether it be the horror of using Russian soldier's body as ballast on sunken roads or the PLA killing their own people in China.... the tank sheilds the mind and conditions hopes and expecations of society, Poland, Germany and Israel are notable examples.     Finally I must note that the book is very well written. Wright knows how to ellicit passion and he also knows how to tweak us with poetry from time to time. He is able to go between diverse ideas of the tank over time.    If you are looking for a biography of tanks and their usage and expecting the clash of Panzers and reams of quotes from Guderian, Rommel, Hobart, or other great tank generals (Patton NOT being one of them), then this is not your book.... but you benefit by the intellectual exercise that this book imposes upon you, by the ideas that it exposes in the strength of the tank and the terror it has wraught upon the bodies and minds of mankind in the 20th Cen.	2005-04-20
US	49580074	RVSMGWTG63KX9	0813391539	159044226	Barbarians, Marauders, And Infidels: The Ways Of Medieval Warfare	Books	3	20	25	N	Y	Good But Flawed Review of Medieval Warfare	This is the kind of book that really turns my crank... obscure barbarian tribes, weapon use and tactics, tales of lost dynasties, imperial decline and the advent of new tribes, races and their own eventual conquest and submission.<br /><br />The book has all of that.. unfortunately it suffers from an incomplete development of almost all of its major theses. Its review of tactics is most notable and I was impressed with the detial of the political organisation, and military mobilisation that Santosousso uses, but was left wondering how he defined his major thematic chapters.<br /><br />The book starts at the end of the latter Roman Empire and the clashes between Rome and the Goths, then those between the Goths and Longobards, Byzantines and other barbarian tribes. These in turn switch to those of the Franks, the ascendency of the Muslim tribes and then the advent of the Medieval Christian warriors and their eventual demise with the nascent advent of citizen armies.  All of this is great, but the narrative is marred by<br /><br />1) lack of continuity: whole chuncks of history are leaped and interesting tactics and peoples totally ignored. ie. mongols are totally left out which is odd considering that there is a whole chapter dedicated to those perrenial losers of history, the Magyars.<br /><br />2) The author throws in the occassional bloody story, but really once he gets our blood up with anecdotal elegance he switches to military organisation descriptions. These are fine but one gets the feeling that we would rather be reading some tales of blood and glory.<br /><br />3) The description of miliary tactics and organisation, though good, omits a fundemental question: how were some of the tribes able to conquer others, and why did others decline?<br /><br />I did like the grand historical sweep of the book and it did hold my interest most of the time. I guess the real problem I had with this book is that I was just expecting much more than Santosousso offerred me... Ifelt slightly famished after reading it... like eating an appetiser and then being told it was really the main course...	2005-04-07
US	49580074	R26CH9AKFVGY5M	1560253274	369799627	Feeding the Rat: A Climber's Life on the Edge (Adrenaline)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Quite Simply One of the best Mountain Reads Ever	This book is really a homage to the not so well known British Climber Moe Antoine... by itself that it not enough reason to buy this book, but the fact that it has some of best adventure stories, personal experiences, packed into tight chapters --- that certainly is a reason to buy this book and it is the reason it is withing the top 10 of all mountaineering books I have read.    Since first reading this book about 15years ago I can still remember the horrid story of Moe and Al sleeping on a wide ledge in Italian Alps... and the whole ledge simply dissapearing into space whilst they are sleeping..... I will not give away how they survived this one... it was however pure luck or fate.     There are also some real lighter gems in the book as well. The climb of the old fogers on the Old Man or Hoy where the corpulant Don Whillans well into his 50s shows the younger hands how it is done...     This book is a kind of tonic for Alvarez to deal with the loss from cancer (at a very young age) of his climbing friend Moe Antoine. In that sense the climbing stories are always framed against the background of larger issues, personal relationships, love, aging, and the prospect of sudden death -- all shot through with a wonderful humour. Yet there are times when reading this book that one is forced to put down the book momentarily and deal with the larger issues of life...     The book is slim and when you finish it you feel a sense of loss, like a journey that ended... why more people do not read this book I do not know...	2005-04-06
US	49580074	R1UXW79J44KRT1	1904010326	883081135	Buffaloes Over Singapore: RAF, RAAF, RNZAF and Dutch Brewster Fighters in Action Over Malaya and the East Indies 1941-1942	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Thank God for People Like Cull	This book is a real delight. Take and obscure fighter aircraft flown by Commonwealth Air Units in Malaya and Singapore, combine it with an absolutely hopeless battle and you have the makings of a great read.  <br /> <br />The Buffalo fighter has won the appelation of \\"the worst aricraft ever manufactured.\\" Cull proves that although obsolete before it was even delivered to RAAF, RNAF and Netherlands East Indies units in S.E. Asia, it was clearly not a complete washout. Having read numerous works on the fall of Singapore and Malaya I had assumed that the Buffaloes were simply swept from the sky in the one fell swoop. It is amazing to learn that some units actually gave as well as they got from the Japanese.  <br />There are actually some confirmed kills of Japanese Naval Zeros!!! <br /> <br />The fighter leaked oil along the crank seals, was underpowered, slow, and most times the .50 machine guns would not fire most of the time. But on the other side of the equation, the aircaft, because of it weight, was fast in a dive an robust (your chances of coming out of belly landing were good as Cull renumerates in many accounts).  <br /> <br />They were largely unloved by their crews, and they could not stand up to even a Japanese dive bomber in aerial combat.  <br /> <br />It becomes clear that the fighter may have been capable if it had been better flight tested, uparmed, up-poowered. But even then it would still be outclassed by the Japanese fighters.  <br /> <br />Cull recounts numerous aerial combats with great detailed accounts from most of the suviving Australian, British and NZ pilots.  <br /> <br />There is a lot here. One is struck by the fact that British were so bamboozled by the Japanese aerial supremacy that they convinced themselves that they were actually fighting Germans and claimed engagements with numerous Me-109s??! The shock that Asians were really much, much better as pilots, had much better equipment was simpley too much for them to believe.  <br /> <br/>There are also larger issues that Cull does not explore, but these books offer wonderful jumping off points for further study.	2005-03-10
US	49580074	R1U3O4229U54T4	019280197X	998365087	Hegel: A Very Short Introduction	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Good Intro to Hegel	If you remember a series published by Oxford in the 1980s called \\"Oxford Past Masters,\\"  this is a revised reprint of Singers original outline in that series (also a good series worth searching for in any old bookstore).  <br /> <br />The style is good. I read two chapters on a mountaineering weekend by flashlight and as a result remember his entire idea about the struggle of history being a \\"striving for the realisation of freedom.\\" His whole definition of Freedom is also adequately layed out in the book.  <br /> <br />Although it is asking a lot in 122 pages to lay out Hegel's ideas, he does a good job. He connects Hegel with modern convervatism and you can see where the current obsession in the US Bush admin could come from and there is also the traditional interpretations of Hegal \\"being stood on his head\\" as understood by Marx. There is even an interesting section on freewill that has implications for modern marketing techniques.  <br /> <br />All in all this is a great book.	2005-02-16
US	49580074	R26RSQYQT5H298	185532296X	58082256	Sherman Medium Tank 1942–45 (New Vanguard)	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Too Short, Format Not so Good	Although I have invested quite a pot of money into Osprey publications, some of the series are better than others... one problem is if the subject matter is so long that it cannot be handled by the short page format.     This is definitely the case in this book: since the Sherman  tank became the unfortunate defacto standard for the western allies in WWII, it can potentially encorporate a lot of space and detail. Zaloga covers the advent of the tank and how it was put through it production paces. I also learned why the production run of the Lee-Grant tanks was so short --- it was an interim version between the Stuart and the Sherman -- the turret for a gun larger than the 37 mm had not been made, so the hybrid was the only way to get large amount of up-gunned tanks into the field quickly(even if they did look wierd).     There is a lot of detail on the many versions but I did find a few things that annoyed me:    1) There is no detail on the \\"why\\" of the choice of the Sherman. Surely a tank as critically flawed and used as long as it is either being defended by misdirected intentions, or it really has some solid points.     2) Although British and Cmmonwealth forces were using this tank in some of the largest engagements on the western front, there is little on the variations used by these forces. There is in addition no mention of any variations that may have been shipped to Burma.     3) As carrolary of the above there is nothing on the Firefly version with the 17 Lbr version of its gun. Certainly arguably the most worthwhile upgrade done on this tank.     4) No mention of the impact of model development and the impact on the field. The 17 pounder on the Firefly meant that the British and Canadians could match the Panzer IV and also score hits on the Panther and Tiger (though  still outgunned).     A good reference but I think that there was just too much info and the Osprey format was just too short.	2005-02-16
US	49580074	R1AAL8H2BBE2X0	1585672343	276140380	The Marauders	Books	5	19	19	N	Y	Warrior Poet Gone to Soldiering	This is really a haunting read. If you are interested in both heart thumping narrative and beautiful prose, this book brings it together with a flair borne in the passion and heartache of pesonal experience. Ogburn was communications officer for one of the three battalions of the original Marauders.    Ogburn covers a lot of ground in his 300 pages and this narrative brings together beautifully the macro political level intrigues and the intense strain of personal combat. I have read perhaps 2000 war books in my short 40 yrs, but there are parts of this book that I will always remember: his description of his first operations against the Japanese and the strain of patrol action and the actual realisation of battle hits a person hard. It is not death that is shocking, but the realisation that one is close to death without ever experiencing it --- that a line gets crossed somewhere, where you are conscience that you are in a completely different territory. For Ogburn that happenned on his first patrol when he noticed the first fresh footprints of Japanese patrols.     Ogburn is in fact one of the small minority of \\"thinking soldiers\\"  --- ones able to philosophise on morality in time of combat, draw judgements about right and wrong, but also to act with supreme daring. His quotes about viewing Japanese dead are haunting:     \\"viewing these dead, one wants to conjure some kind of image that foreordained them to some mortal sin. Some act or upbringing that marked them clearly as crossing over in the land of the wicked. That leant a notion of justice to their deaths and the fact that you still lived. You searched for it. But you knew there was nothing in it.\\"    Ogburn took part in two of the three hooking actions of the Marauders. After nearly slicing his foot off he missed most of the last operation at Myitkyina. For this operation he relies on the personal experiences of everyone in his unit and there is no flagging in the pace.     Since I have read more on the Chindits than the Marauders I really came to appreciate how much both units, formed seemingly for the same operation --- initially conceived to be under the command of Wingate --- became victims to the insidious greed of careerism that seems to be a defining mark of the US military. In no other western democratic military has there ever been such a thorough-going  willingness to sacrifice grunts for the ambitions of the supreme officer class. Stilwell with his pathetic personal vanity and pathological hatred of the English, meant that he would never ask for the British to support them with one of their free divisions at a time when the Marauders had ceased to exist as a functioning unit. He pressed medical orderlies to certify everyone as fit for battle at a time when the unit only could muster about 20% effectives. People suffering wounds, ameobic dystentery, fever and chronic undernourishment were flung into the battle of Myitkyina. (One officer continually passed into and out of consciousness from undernourishment while commanding his battalion, and still he was not certified for withdrawal). Stillwell placed the blame of the British Chindits for their \\"slow\\" advance from the south and failure to block the railway -- as Ogburn points out, it was a convenient scapegoat. In a tribute to clear and fair thinking Ogburn describes that the British were at this time functioning in very similiar, if not worse conditions (since they had to be 100% supplied from the air -- the Marauders had a road). One Chindit battalion could only muster two rifle platoons! Such was the intensity as Ogburn describes, that both the British and the Marauders faced.     But the one vital element was, that there were fresh troops that the British were willing to commit -- but Stilwell refused to for the sake of his personal vanity. The British therefore came to hate Stillwell, but Slim at least said that he could \\"work with him.\\"  The Marauders hated Stillwell more: one soldier, that we know of, drawing a bead on him with a rifle and almost shooting him \\"I could have shot him right there and no one would have thought it was anything other than a sniper.\\"    Ogburn also cites the irony of the American way of war where the number of soldiers in US uniform increases proportional to the distance from the front. At a time when Stillwell commanded 30,000 men in Burma-India he still kept rotating essentially the same combat troops and convalescences of the original 3 battalions (although in the end he eventually dragooned about 1000 construction and engineering troops to fill the void created in the Marauder ranks).     Lt-Col. Hunter, the defacto commander of the Marauders for a lions-share of the campaign (Col. Merrill suffered two heart attacks and was hors de combat for most of the campaign after Shaduzup), was also sacrificed and eventually removed by Stillwell from command with no reason -- accept to find a fall-guy for his inability to quickly capture Myitkyina. Eventually mutiny swelled in the ranks and whole sections of the front and rear areas became effective \\"no-go\\" areas for American officers.     The text of this book should serve as a tribute to the personal courage and individuality of the US combat infantryman and his rugged ability. It should also serve as a warning to those still in the US military on operations.... the tendancy of careerism in the senior officer class, right up to President, and the willingness to sacrifce the average grunt, has become noticeably worse since the times of the Marauders --- in this sense Ogburn is not merely a poet, but also a trenchent analyst of our own times as events that happened in the Burmese jungle 60 years ago...	2005-01-31
US	49580074	R27BNUX6K2BS2I	0898867789	892134820	Conquistadors of the Useless: From the Alps to Annapurna	Books	5	18	18	N	Y	Once Again Old is Better	If you have read my other reviews on many of the mountaineering genre you will find that I personally find it very hard to find a modern mountaineering adventure story. Mountaineering literature is so suffused with the quest for money, huge personal egos and quests for climbing garbarge strewn summits that there is little time to note the adventure.<br /><br />In old mountaineering books they almost never have enough money, they climb with holes in their socks and equipment that make modern mountaineers shiver. They also summit and do routes of incredible complexity and skill that even modern mountaineers find hard to match -- and they all seem quite happy to hang off the Eiger North Face on a single piton...!<br /><br />Terray fits this genre par excellence. He was famous in his day, but his name is not often mentioned around campfires today... (he is perhaps the French equivalent of Moe Antoine of Britain). He climbed some very technical routes with many first ascents, but throughout the book, the amazing thing is that he also does a lot of very hard climbs that most people, even in mountaineering circles have never heard of, nor want to undertake... Hence I believe the Title of his book -- the conquering of brilliant but largely useless summits.<br /><br />Terry offers great and nailbiting vignettes of his climbs all over the world. Starting with climbing the Walker Spur, the Second Ascent of the Eiger North Wall, and the French Classic climb of the first 8000-metre summit, Annapurna. Each chapter is a real page turner. When you are in the middle it is hard to put down... you can feel the tension build in some parts such as the numerous traverses on the Eiger, the uncertainty of route finding... the terror of the long run outs of rope... where downclimbing is about the scariest option one can think of..<br /><br />The early work on the Eiger is well recounted and the rescue of the Cassin Expedition. He also covers a lot of ground on the climbing of Annapurna with no overlap with Herzog's classic. I was particularly impressed with the amount of bushwacking Terray and crew had to do just to get access to the mountain glaciers. They were using maps and entering valleys no outsider had seen. This raw adventure, lower than summit peaks with its route finding conundruns, waterfall climbing, backtracking down blind valleys, is supremely exciting. It is in fact a joining of the exploration genre with mountaineering.<br /><br />The other summits are just as stupendous but less known. Terray saw the South Ridge of Mt Hunter in Alaska and thought it the most beautiful he had seen. He had to climb it. While not high by Himalayan standards this Frenchman set a new North American standard with his long and arduous ascent.<br /><br />Also there is one of the most exciting (and rare) accounts of Alpine Mountain Warfare that I know. At the end of the war he was attached to the French Alpine Regiment. Despite his knowledge that the war in the Alps would never hasten the end of the war even a single day, he fought as a good soldier should. But one does admire Terray in other ways. If this front would not be decisive in any way, why kill people he mused? He therefore devised daring raids upon German Mtn Troops. On one of them they scale a couloir, climbed a rock face and bivvied in a snow cave on the opposite side of a rock outcropping. The next day they set up their machine gun and duly strafed the German positions -- \\"not really aiming at anyone and hoping to hit noone.\\" After scaring the Germans silly he and his partner decamped and slid back to their camp. Mission accomplished and no one dead. His other exploits were not so bloodless as when they attacked a heavily defended German position up sheer rock faces under their supporting artillery fire --- but the effect and accurary required to pinpoint targets on ridges meant that most of the rounds missed and fell upon the cliffs with the resulting French Chaussers suffering their own friendly fire.<br /><br />I must add that there are a lot of pictures in the book about his climbs in Patagonia, but these only get a brief mention in the book. The fact that he was soon dead after this was published is also a tragic note on which to end. But here is pure adventure that this Frenchman lived and but that the rest of the world could discover his raw love for nature, the challengce of the climb and love for only adventure... A ripping yarn... Thank you Lionel!their own friendly fire.  <br />    <br />I must add that there are a lot of pictures in the book about his climbs in Patagonia, but these only get a brief mention in the book. The fact that he was soon dead after this was published is also a tragic note on which to end. But here is pure adventure that this Frenchman lived and but that the rest of the world could discover his raw love for nature, the challengce of the climb and love for only adventure... A ripping yarn... Thank you Lionel!	2005-01-25
US	49580074	RR1OLAKBNNI6C	1842127179	166238672	Trafalgar: The Nelson Touch (Great Battles)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another David Howarth Classic	David Howarth is one of those great historical narrative writers 60s style. All of this books have been reissued a number of times and there is good reason why: his style is fast, intelligent, and he is able to give you a wide-sweep of history while at the same time concentrating on the intricacies of a single historical event (usually a battle -- such as in his books on Hastings, Trafalgar, and Waterloo). All in a format under 200 pages.<br /><br />Writing like this is a lost art.<br /><br />Howarth begins buy giving the strategic situation and rightly concludes that England had already won the strategic sea battle long before Trafalgar. Trafalgar was the ultimate forordained denouement: France could not sally into the seas for trade or battle in either the North Sea, the Atlantic, or the Mediteranean. No Invasion of England could be contemplated. Moreover French (and their reluctant Spanish Allies) had conceded superiority to the British long before Trafalgar. The last act -- battle -- merely tactically sealed the strategic truths.<br /><br />Howarth still paints an intense picture of the motivations of the French and English. French and Spanish tars were less in training and commitment, but they did engage in equal ardour when it came time for the killing. Moreover Admiral Villeneuve is a very sympathetic figure and Howarth seems to have much the measure of the man for this slender volume... ironically there is more here on Villeneuve than in the longer standard versions of this battle (such as by Schom). Howarth has a special chapter on the Storm immediately following the battle, something that is either glossed over as an ending paragraph in much larger works or often omitted. My favourite part is when the ships are sailing close-hauled for their ultimate encounter. You can feel the tension build as they slowly close for battle.<br /><br />Keeping all in mind this is a great place to start a study of the battle, or the general strategic situation surrounding the Napleonic Naval Wars.<br /><br />There is a lot missing, Lady Hamilton represents three pages of dedicated text (quite enough for some readers), there is little review of the naval battles preceding Trafalgar, St Vincent, the Nile etc. and there is little on the long life of Nelson --- but all the essential elements are here!<br /><br />All in all this is one ripping read and if you love the clash of tall ships in battle and the feeling of wind whistling through the rigging, then this is the book for you.rrounding the Napleonic Naval Wars.  <br /> <br />There is a lot missing, Lady Hamilton represents three pages of dedicated text (quite enough for some readers), there is little review of the naval battles preceding Trafalgar, St Vincent, the Nile etc. and there is little on the long life of Nelson --- but all the essential elements are here!  <br /> <br />All in all this is one ripping read and if you love the clash of tall ships in battle and the feeling of wind whistling through the rigging, then this is the book for you. <br />	2005-01-24
US	49580074	R35HBLBXT5GHBD	0771029780	954958602	Future: Tense: The Coming World Order?	Books	5	67	74	N	N	Realism meets Classic Liberalism in International Affairs	Gwynne Dyer is an excellent example of a person with tremendous experience of international relations and an uncommon grasp of the broad sweep of history. When he turns his sights on events in Iraq his clear and clean non-ideological logic sees some pretty harrowing things:    1) The war on terror was never part of the agenda in Iraq. It was all about a small clique of neo-conservatives ideologues in the Bush administration that, for the first time had the ability to inflict their vision on universial American dominance on the world, irrespective of the needs and analysis of other countries and contrary to the norms of international law developed since WWI.     2) The Bush administation played directly into the hands of Al Queada by invading a sovereign nation that was no direct threat to the US (iraq), making America the bogeyman of international politics and the perceived oppressors of the Arabs.     3) That Americans have little ability to see that their place in the world has changed: it is no longer the dominant economy and it is no longer the shining beacon of freedom. New countries Russia, and Indonesia and even China are finding the path to a rough democracy. They all are doing it by themselves, they have had no help from America, nor do they require it -- why is Iraq different.      4) That unilateral action of the US undermines the norms of international order build up since WWI and central to any notion of stability in the new century. It is this future stability that is directly threatened by the actions of the US in Iraq.    Since the US economy cannot support a war of Pax Americana for a long duration and the US electorate can only tolerate small casualties, the US will inevitably be forced from this unilateral stance in the long run to either isolation and withdrawal from international institutions.    The only real question Dyer admits is how much damage will the US and its quest for Pax Americana do to the system of international laws before they are forced to either be isolated or allow themselves to be taken more within the international order of nation states supporting the UN and the rule of law? Sooner is better than later -- hence American needs to lose this war in Iraq.    Dyer says that it is in the interests of the world that the US lose the war in Iraq sooner rather than later. It is up to the world to help bring the US back into the international order by offering her a way out of Iraq with inducements and an expanded role for the UN in Iraq, and other hot spots around the world.     Dyer is really spot-on much of his analysis, but there is a really troubling point about this book: his cold lucid, non-ideological analysis is something that the rest of the democratic world considers a norm, but it is a style that is absent from the name calling, paranoid world of US Political Culture (if you disagree with me you must be a liberal of a conservative. This is a society where these two honourable terms have been turned into profane names by the polular media  --- remember that there are people such as Rush Limbaugh & Anne Coulter, Fox News, etc. whom people actually listen to in the US! -- just across the border in Canada one would be laughed at if one were to cite one of these people or media outlets as an authorative source on just about anything). But this culture of ideology, bad manners, selfishness and paranoia is what passes for debate in the press and the airwaves of the US. That culture excludes the kind of analysis that Dyer brings!     Dyer accurately points out that the ability to constrain the neo-conservatives was bi-partisan. Reagan, Bush and Clinton all repressed an urge to implement Pax Americana on the world. Bush Sr. specifically after Gulf War I.  But 9/11 was the trigger that allow the neo-conservatives to seize foreign policy. Terrorism was a means towards an ideological end and they were ready to stoke the ever burning fires of US paranoia to further their agenda of Pax Americana.In this sense both the terrorists and the neoconservatives served each others' ends... it seems ironic --- Pax Americana was extended, and Al Queada got the \\"Great Satan\\" to be in Iraq as a symbol of US oppression over Arabs -- both furthered their ends with 9/11.     The task now is for the rest of the world to help the US out of Iraq before it runs roughshod over what is left of international order. We must save the US from themselves or at least hope some sane international leadership comes to the for within the Bush Administration. The longer the logic of Pax Americana rules, the worse off the whole world.....	2005-01-19
US	49580074	R12WXRRMM1IN7T	0801864046	563874855	Spearhead: A Complete History of Merrill's Marauder Rangers	Books	4	16	19	N	Y	NOTE: THIS IS A REGIMENTAL HISTORY	This book is a real gem and a tribute to all those to who served in \\"Gallahad\\" force -- 5037th (one has to hand it to the Americans for the most uninspiring numbered regiment systems in the world).     The book reads well and there is plenty of action here for people to sink their teeth into. The detail is gritty extending down to descriptions for just about every combat casualty the force experienced in Burma. It is strung together in a chronological dairy-like style with actions denoted over certain days. For those seeking detail on the battles like Shaduzup and Myitkyina this is indespensible. Like almost all military books, it does not contain enough maps.     The book however lacks a lot of what a straightforward narrative would include: there is little backgrounder on the unit or the political wrangling that surrounded it from start to finish. Also lacking is any real assessment of it in the general overall battle that was developing in the jungles aroung Imphal and which later extended to central Burman Plains. There is also no analysis on the intentions of the Japanese during the engagements, beyond a limited reference to tactical details.     Like most American military history this book does a great job at describing the individual triumphs and failures of the unit and also of individual men. The good and bad outcomes of undaunted American idealism and individualism (as opposed to British stoicism and regimentation) are described in the actions and the effects of this unit.     There has been a lot of finger pointing by mainly the Americans historians (started by Stilwell's pathological anti-British rhetoric) that they felt \\"let down\\" by their British Allies on occasion: Stilwell taking the Chindits to task for not seizing Muangok to support the siezing of Myitkyina by the Marauders. I used to think that it was really a fundamental American misunderstanding of how stretched the Chindits were after serving 6 months behind enemy lines without adequate food and supplies. I learned from \\"Spearhead\\" that the Americans were indeed deluded, but one cannot fault them since they were equally suffering from the elements, poor food and supplies and a general wasting that brought effectives for the regiment down to 200 men from 3000. That is the same level as the Chindits and you can see how misunderstandings develop when both sides are fighting at the end of their tether in chronic undernourishment...     In the end the Chindits were pulled and disbanded. Ditto for the Marauders. Some people see their abandonment as stab in the back by the US govt. From this and other histories it is difficult to see what other choice the US Govt. had in the matter since the force as a fighting unit had already ceased to exist.     For those that served in Gallahad force what a long, strange and brave trip, it must have been... I would recommend the book as a vital reference to all those who are studying the war in Burma or Elite Fighting Units.	2005-01-17
US	49580074	RCPVJ1OPPLLVV	0385496931	302329004	The Life of Thomas More	Books	3	17	25	N	N	A Character Study	I enjoyed this book, but I do think that as a narrative history it is perhaps slightly flawed. The main strength (and problem) I have with this book is that the character study is so dominant that is completely ignores the larger historical picture that More lived within and, at times the dominant philosophy, that may have allowed a deeper understanding of More.<br /><br />The gnawing problem I have with this book is the main currents that More struggled against and the ideas he fought for are little outlined. The church that he so selflessly defended is little described beyond its social context in which More was raised. The central point of More was that the sublimation of the time honoured traditions (though admittedly flawed) could not be merely circumvented by mans personal appeal to God. Direct dialougue with God allowed a virtual pandora's box of interpretation and clash of beliefs that could only lead to mass bloodshed --- and he was right! This belief is left unexplored and the historical events, such as the peasants revolt in Germany that More abhored and used in his polemical tracts against Luther (a thoroughly scatologically unsavoury character) is not described. In addition Charles V sack of Rome and its influence on the relations with Henry VII are not considered relevant.<br /><br />So I feel dissatified because I am not getting a wide historical narrative. Although I understand the texture of the stones that he worshipped upon and the feel of the robes he wore, I have little feeling of the times that surrounded him. For the first-time reader of More, this may appear disconcerting.<br /><br />I realise that my critique cuts another way: if Ackroyd did write the larger historical narrative I wanted, he may have digressed into the narrative historical self-abuse of the 1000 page biography (only acceptable in the most exceptional of circumstances).<br /><br />I also get no sense of a building dennoument in the encounter with Henry. There is a annoying blase telling of the story with some bright moments -- the book gets better as one goes through it -- it is dense and quite frankly, a little boring in the beginning.<br /><br />ALso the Olde Englysh translations do detract from the flow of the narrative. Although it is easily understood ones reading flow slows from 700 words per minute, to 50 words per minute in the old English translations. He should revise it from the 16th Century vernacular to modern spelling.<br /><br />In final analysis I feel that I really did not understand the man. I feel that I need to get a hold of a better biography of the man. So if Ackroyd succeeded in doing this, then it was worth the read.ase telling of the story with some bright moments -- the book gets better as one goes through it -- it is dense and quite frankly, a little boring in the beginning.<br /><br />ALso the Olde Englysh translations do detract from the flow of the narrative. Although it is easily understood ones reading flow slows from 700 words per minute, to 50 words per minute in the old English translations. He should revise it from the 16th Century vernacular to modern spelling.<br /><br />In final analysis I feel that I really did not understand the man. I feel that I need to get a hold of a better biography of the man. So if Ackroyd succeeded in doing this, then it was worth the read.	2004-12-21
US	49580074	RHRZ4CV9HHYH0	068486309X	862019174	The FIFTH MIRACLE: The Search for the Origin and Meaning of Life	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Simply Astounding	This book is my Science recommendation for 2004. As usual Davies ploughes through a whole whack of cosmic data and implications to look at the question of life: How did it begin? What are the current theories of life? What are the necessary conditions for life forms.     It is interesting to note that all of these questions are pre-evolution questions, since we do not need a mechanism to add, refine or make life more complex -- natural selection does that wonderfully --- the central question of life is how did it arise in the most simplest of organisms.     In this wonderful read, Davies analyses first the physics of life, entropy, open systems and thermodynamic equilibrium. It is this approach that Davies uses that I find personally so fascinating since it is one that is often ignored by a lot of chemists and biologists, but is it germane -- what kind of physical properties are necessary in the universe for life to arise? This is a real good qustion and Davies gives us a good intro tour of the how complexity can arise in an environment which always seems to be striving towards thermodynamic equillibrium.     The second part of the book could be called the biochemical reasons necessary for life. Here Davies looks at elementary organisation and gives us a really good history of the experimentation in this area, from the elementary forces that may be required to bring about nucleotides, proteins and polypeptide strings.     One really interesting thing Davies does is trace back the evolutionary history of organisms and the current data that evolutionary forces were at work for almost 4 billion years. From this he describes ancestors from this time that may still be living on the earth (meso/thermophilic bacteria). A really great way of looking at evolution.     The last chapters sort of synthethise the physics and chemistry parts and look at the implications of the planetary forces, both gradual and catastrophic over the history of the earth and their potential to influence the rise of life and shape the evolutionary forces.     There is a lot of food for thought here and of course no one knows how life started, but it is clear that current theory and evidence are making science more interesting than even before. We may never know as Davies states, but in knowing more and more we are attaining the best goals of mankind.     A wonderful book with science as the only aim.     It should be stated that Davies has no political axe to grind with anyone and his writing is ideologically clean. But let there be no misunderstanding, when in doubt there is no evoking of blind forces in any or Davies books. His passion is science and reason and, like most people who think deeply, he regards the constant state of unknowing as a challenge as a never ending challenge.     For the person who says that Davies is not \\"open-minded\\" because he does not consider (notice I did not say believe) that a omnipresent God waved his hand and made us... that is simple. Personal belief has nothing to do with science since it yields nothing of benefit to Science. Even if Davies did personally believe that a God created life, that does not get anyone closer to understanding life... And this is the fundemental point that people who believe in Gods (or as with the current fashion, intelligent design) as ulimate cause fall into --- intelligent design, even if right is not science, it cannot be proved. It is a sterile end on the path of unknowing.     Thank God for people like Davies that can remind us that Science alone can yeild truth -- that it will never yield all of the truths is the central tenet of Science... and with that there is comfort, because it means that reason remains paramount, and man advances.	2004-12-12
US	49580074	R16UK3GVXO3JC3	0465038514	938064545	The Last Three Minutes: Conjectures About The Ultimate Fate Of The Universe (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Mind Expanding... (or is it contracting?)	This book overviews the current major ideas of cosmology and sets them against a logical background of ultimate fate. What happens to the universe ultimately depends upon whence we came. Davies takes several theories and then logically extrapolates the possible fates of the universe.  <br /> <br />One of the things to keep in mind is the fact that \\"infinity is a long time\\" and this reoccuring theme is central to the ideas he develops. If the universe is expanding, what eventually happens to matter? If the universe is contracting, what will eventually happen to matter? Where does matter come from? Can matter be created or destroyed over infinite amounts of time?  <br /> <br />Such ideas explored are the steady state theory, the expanding universe and \\"cold heat\\" death. The contracting universe and the eventual ceasing of all time, matter --- everything... The oscillating universe where matter can be created from \\"nothing\\" .  <br /> <br />Some of the info is a little dated -- I suppose this applies if you are a graduate student in the Astrophysic department of Cambridge University. But for the average bloke with an interest in cosmology, one need not be worried about reading \\"old\\" materials. In fact the popular science, current considerations about the universes initial inflation stage -- that fraction of a secong when expansion and matter may have formed --- is well described and should serve as an intro to other reading.  <br /> <br />The one thing that I really like about Davies is that his writing is clean and does not become a political tract: eg. Dawkins, Pinker and Dennet.  <br /> <br />This trend towards writing \\"polically\\" based appreciations of scientific theory is based upon two things in my estimation: 1) the rise of the irrational, Voodoo Science and stark raving mad religious fundementalists --- scientific authors often rightly feel that they are fighting a rear guard action against the forces of darkness, and: 2) amazing egos that need to be assuaged (Dawkins and Dennet) so they feel that they must always address all potential attacks, however inconsequential, to defend their \\"good name.\\"  <br /> <br />Davies is clean and can present contrasting and even illogical ideas (Bede's \\"Darwin's Black Box\\") in a non-political way -- and still make the guy look irrelevant to modern science.  <br /> <br />That is why, along with Matt Ridley, Davies is the best writer in popular science, worthy to assume the mantle of Carl Sagan.	2004-12-09
US	49580074	R1W7P5VDRNFJN8	1841766232	247453060	Cassino 1944: Breaking the Gustav Line (Campaign)	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	A useful reference for future reading.	Having walked the battlefield twice this book is something that I will carry with me on my future, third sojourn. The maps in the book, while less numerous than others, are certainly more than you get while reading a general overview of the battle. This book should be read, or consulted when reading some of the old classics of this battle such as Madjalay's, \\"Cassino.\\"<br /><br />I had been to the village of Cairo (where the American's successfully crossed the Rapido) and saw the bullet-pocked houses but had no real idea of scale until I read this book.<br /><br />The fighting was confused to say the least, but with the high ground commanded by the Germans and the allies need to capture it, the strategy is quite straightforward.<br /><br />The outlines of the four major battles fought here (two on the ridge, the one in the town, and the final crushing overwhelming offensive are outlined and should serve as a jumping off point for later reading.<br /><br />The one thing that this book does well is to set the battle in its general strategic setting. It well describes Cassino and its relation to Anzio. It also describes the composition of forces for the last offensive.<br /><br />I think it is balanced with an appreciation of the fighting capabilities of the French and Morrocans, and also details the forces following up the offensive such as the Canadian Armoured Corps, and the Gurhkas -- all of whom are hardly mentioned in the main histories concentrating only on the three forlorn battles to crack the line.<br /><br />A useful reference for future reading.	2004-12-09
US	49580074	RW494K0NVAAW	0786709863	283184913	Bloody Mary's Martyrs: The Story of England's Terror	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Just Barely Kept My Interest	I think that I am with Todd (see his review below) on this one. It is a great topic, but one that seems unduly light in the hands of Ridley. I do not mind the salacious aspects of the burnings at all. The problem is that Ridley cannot make up his mind if he is going to regal us with stories of grisly burnings till we can almost smell the burning flesh, or rather engage in a sort of mildly analytical narrative of the fluctuations of the Catholic vs. Protestant battles that went on in the hearts and minds of people in 16th Century England and Europe.  <br /> <br />Both objectives would be fine by me. But he really just starts on track and then quickly switches to another. I can handle the fact that he is merely regurgitating \\"Foxe's Book of Martyrs\\"  --there are a lot of august historians that make their honest living doing this well -- but Ridley really never pulls it off.  <br /> <br />There is of course some of the value judgements that rear their heads at obscure and incomplete times. At times Ridley reminds me of some of the disjointed conversations I used to have with some of my (ancient English) relatives on the perils of Popery! in the 21st Cen! --- One would think that we could get past that. In other passages Ridley talks about the struggle in the hearts of all people and the brutal \\"terror\\" of the burning -- which easily eclipsed the rather limited burnings of Henry VIII.  <br /> <br />Just barely kept my interest. I selected it as my ripping read of the week (you know, the one you read after you have grown bored with reading philosophy of science books and you can no longer concentrate on Hobsbawm -- the time where you just want to revel in the joys of Counter Reformation excess before crawling off to bed), but this book did not accomplish that for me....  <br /> <br />It was OK, but with a read like this it does not encourage one to read Ridley's other works.	2004-12-01
US	49580074	R3EK4ZKO816SMG	0060923083	517687688	The French Foreign Legion: Complete History of The Legendary Fighting Force	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A Lot of Legion Here: Really a Social History of the Legion	If you are looking for a complete history of the Legion with almost every hopeless engagement listed and the details of \\"faire Cameron\\" (the propensity of the legion to battle in hopeless battles to the death, then you may be a little disspointed. I say \\"a little\\" because this book is really a great read, but it is NOT a military history.  <br /> <br />It is strong on some aspects of the campaignes such as the early ones in Algeria, Spain, Madagascar, Mexico and latterally in Indochina and Algeria, but it does miss whole parts of campaigns in French North Africa and is a little sparse on WWI and WWII in my opinion(especially the sterling actions of the French and the legion at Cassino in 1944).  <br /> <br />This book is really a massive social history of the Legion. Its place in the hearts and minds of the French People, the legionnaire, and how the legionnaire was viewed by those whose lands he soldiered in and fought against. As such there is a very clever interweaving of the statistical information on numbers of recruits, dessertions, composition of forces. Porch uses the very much reoccuring theme of dessertion in La Legion to such an extent that dessertion in a sense defined the legion -- you were not considered a true legionnaire until you had tried to desert at least once.  <br /> <br />He analyses the mentality of brutality that seemed endemic in this force and although he finds it repugnant at times he does see it as necessarily standing outside the experiences of French Line Regiments.  <br /> <br />Another theme is the supposed reason for enlistment. For the majority of recruits over the entire time of La Legion, the main reason for people joining was to mainly for escape and the espirit du corps. This was augmented over time after recruits got in and they fought really only for the sake of fighting and protecting the name of regiment. In times like WWI and WWII when ideals motivated recruits, the traditional mindset of the legionaire often came into comflict with those of idealists. Therefore the effectiveness of the recruits may become compromised.  <br /> <br />I particularly enjoyed the frightening detail of the massive sweeps in Indochina and the feeling of absolute hopelessness in the horrific infantry battles in the jungles. Whole regiments getting wiped out in forgotten battles.  <br /> <br />This is a massive read. Porch is a solid historian and writes very well. I would read other of his books gladly.	2004-12-01
US	49580074	RBOHABB2OS475	0140170413	803838595	The Price of Glory: Verdun 1916	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Still A Classic After 50 Years	I read this book first when I was about 15. I remembered it still when I was 40. It is without a doubt the best book in English on the Verdun battle and perhaps a more accurate account with more detail will be written in the future, but it will still not eclipse this book for what it is -- quite simply a very accurate and moving account of a battle that had no sole purpose than to kill men.<br /><br />Unlike other battles where there is a specific political purpose achieved at the price of bodies, in this battle, the bodies themselves were seen as a way to beggar the enemy and force them into surrendering. In the logic of the German High Command it was reckoned that in major battle with Germany the French would loose around 2 soldiers for every 1 German that died. Since Germany had a larger population base than France the calculus was simple: bleed the French white so that they would have to sue to peace and abandon the war effort.<br /><br />The French, in good fin de siecle spirit rose to the occasion and decided to defend the vital fortress town, come what may... This was making of a colossal battle, lasting many months and with over 1,000,000 dead on both sides. It could be cited as the largest battle ever fought!<br /><br />With both side bying into the calculus of bodies, the count rose higher and higher and the fearful hell-like outcome was predictable. Despite the losses (the Germans were more or less correct) the Germans eventually broke off battle and left most of the offensive work in the war to the allies.<br /><br />The book describes well the actions of the French High Command, the political events and is very good on the mud-and-blood-in-your-face details of the common French polieu. In addition the descriptions, cameo explanations of core personalities related to the battle are concise and Horne has a flair in making them come alive in the few short pages we get as introduction for each.<br /><br />Of course there are \\"problems\\" with the book. Hornedid not have access to fine bios of Falkenhayn, or Joffre, or Petain. He also eschews the later style of heavy empirical fact, data based research that has become so much the standard of contemporary historians since the 1970s. But that does not make it less worth reading: each page of this book is a savoury sojourn into another era. While he may not encapsulate the order of battle well for both sides, one can and does gain a largely correct understanding of this battle. In that sense history has not changed. And if, as Horne does, one gets this in one hell of a ripping read -- well, so much the better for old-style history.<br /><br />If it is read with Leon Wolfe's in Flander's feild and Martin Middlebrook's \\"The First Day on the Somme\\" one can really get a flavour of the hell of the Western Front.<br /><br />Hands down one of the best books written on World War I. Stays with you.<br />(I just re-read the book now... when I am 52). It still stands the test of time.	2004-11-02
US	49580074	R32SZTMA43KM7R	0140165614	116378185	Guadalcanal: The Definitive Account of the Landmark Battle	Books	5	57	61	N	N	Definitive and a Landmark	Before going on a 6 month tour of the South Pacific Islands I was determined to get a good chronological understanding of every battle that happened there during WWII. Guadalcanal had always been a little difficult for me to get a good geographical grip upon: the island is large, but actual battle areas were rather small; the battle continued over 6 months before the Japanese broke and was characterised by a spasmodic nature; actions were rarely large unit and the fighting was largely not against well dug-in Japanese positions, but rather characterised by long marches and concentrations against the US perimeter, and by the US against Japanese troop concentrations, and --- no understanding of the land battle is possible without understanding the sea battles.     Frank is wonderful on all counts and can really write well. At a time when both sides were reaching out to each other to do battle right at the end of their supply lines, with little depth, it was the Japanese training and perseverance that really ruled the day on the sea. On land, although Japanese soldiers were perhaps the finest fighting infantry in war (General Slim's words, not mine). They tended to be blinded by their presumed superiority and racial arrogance. They were roughly handled by the marines at first and this punishment was followed up by the later army actions to clear the North-west part of the island.     What really dominated the land battle was success at sea -- and the Americans were very lucky indeed in the opening months that the Japanese never pressed their advantage once they had initial successes at sea. If they had of the result of the battle would have been an allied defeat. Few people remember that, in these waters, were fought the only real sustained large scale engagements of surfaces ships, battleships and cruisers -- minus carriers -- during WWII. Ironbottom sound got its name from all the (mainly US) ships sunk. But out of this the general US Navy complacency gave way to a grudging appreciation that the Japanese --- with or without radar -- were a force not to be taken lightly. Over the next few months Americans took their licks, then gave as good as they got, and eventually were able to hold their own in ship-on-ship engagements (particularly destroyer actions at night), which was quite and achievement for the Americans given their relative inexperience.     Unfortunately all this took much longer than should have been the case and the grunts on shore could have been paying the final bill but for the fact that the Japanese limited their attacks to shelling the airfield (as Frank describes), usually ineffectively, but enough to scare the hell out anyone on the receiving end of the Japanese 18 inch rifles.     Japanese land tactics are also well described. The landings and slaughter of the Ichiki and Kawaguchi units are there in detail. And well they should be since, unless you know what Kawaguchi-san was actually trying to do by concentrating his troops after a punishing march through the jungle... it can be very difficult to keep track of the action.     The relief convoys are also well described and the final successful withdrawal of the Japanese is a nail biter.     It is too bad that this battle ground today remains mired in a bitter civil conflict or it would be more accessible to those who wish to see the numerous remains of this battle (and there are a lot to see on land, and by scuba or snorkel at sea).     Hands down the best book on the \\"canal\\" as US forces called it, or \\"Ga-jima\\" as the Japanese called it. A good testament to the courage of both sides in what were for the US early days of WWII.	2004-10-18
US	49580074	RK92MQEQ94TVP	0815410220	338855770	Defeat Into Victory: Battling Japan in Burma and India, 1942-1945	Books	5	18	19	N	Y	Best Business Book You Can Read Today	It has become fashionable inside the business community to laud the efforts of certain military leaders and their emulation as a route towards supposed success. And so we have biographies on Patton and Schwartzkof purporting certain lessons that \\"business people\\" can learn from the greats --- though in the case above, the one a prima donna, and the latter achieving the military equivalant of a heavywieght prizefighter beating up a toddler, one wonders what we are learning.     Slim will probably never figure in a business seminar, but he certainly should. He was a person schooled in utter defeat and the lessons it teaches people. These lessons expressed in Slim's downhome, honest self-effacing style are really things that one can imbibe -- and learn a great chunk of military history to boot.     Slim was wary of theory over experience. Even in defeat he tried things first to see if they would work after making plans to implement then. During his retreat from Burma in 1942, he ran a test convoy up the roads with exactly the same wieght vehicles as he would withdraw in the future. This allowed him to see what would happen when he eventually had to retreat down the same road -- the importance of the dry run.     For Wingate fans you will find no blind adulation. Slim rightly recognised from a aerial perpective the waste of inserting men 100s of mile behind Japanese lines, rightfully insisting that they be better used and less expensively equipped as a regular fighting division. In the end he was proved right. A lesson in efficiency planning --- getting the best bang for you buck.     Slim kept a lean chain of command and did away with several levels inside his Army HQ, he refused to have a Chief-of-Staff as had recently been adopted by the British from the Americans. He was able to also cobble together chains of command that may have looked wierd on paper, but worked. His relationship with \\"Vinegar Joe\\" Stillwell the ascerbic American General who hated \\"limeys.\\" Makesgreat reading. Slim alone in the entire British Command could handle him.     Personal courage was also not found wanting. He was frequently near the front and made it his duty to make sure that he had strong intelligence of the Japanese and a personal respect for them as fighting \\"insects.\\" Noticably disturbed by Japanese attrocities against prisoners and wounded, he continually uses words of respect when describing Japanese resistance which was fantatical, yet \\"magnificent.\\" Others, such a Wingate would learn this later in hard lessons.    Besides the fighting, Stillwell had to supply an Army spread over 800 miles of Jungle at the end of supply lines thousands of miles long, with virtually no roads, in some cases only jungle tracks operating as the lines of communication. He did this a large part with American help and British self-sufficiency. But is was Slim's decisions that allowed those best suited for the positions to get on with the business of supply. And where he could not purchase such equipment, they improvised, such as in rivercraft and jute parachutes.     Most importantly he recognised that one can never insist on 100% perfection in battle (nor business),both are adaptive to the situation and one perpares as best as one can, but it is more important to plan for imperfection and dealing with situations, rather than to insist on everything going to plan. Slim knew that the Japanese in Arakan and Imphal would cut off the forward British/Indian Army elements. He made no plan to hold at all places. He realised however that if British troops could pull into tough defensive positions supplied by air that mobile forces striking from the rear would eventually exhaust the Japanese offensive as they outstretched their lines of communication.     Slim has probably the ultimate recipe to maintain espirit de corps: it is well laid out and easy to understand. He identifies it as a common goal that everyone can buy into. He states that the material needs of troops for good morale are \\"last, important, but clearly last.\\" He realised that fancy weapons, or fantastic incentive programmes can only supplement morale, the cannot built it.    There is also the combat story between the covers and Slim's personal confrontation with his inner being, failure has a way of stripping away a man's defences and forcing him to look at what he really is... and Slim was obviously on the edge at least once. But then he pulls it together and soldiers on... one is enlightened by his honesty and the plain humanity of the man, a trait almost never found in the overt ego-feeding  extravaganzas of business and military biographies stocking the shelves of bookstore \\"Business Sections\\".     A great biography that entertains with majesty and adventure and teaches us something about the rigours of command and how good leaders lead, without the theory, without the ego -- just Bill Slim, simple teacher from Northern England who found himself a soldier and, through Defeat turned his forgotten Army and forgotten campaign into the western allies greatest Victory....but if the US could come close to producing leaders half as great.	2004-10-05
US	49580074	R1DZMILLKQAWW1	0060933887	334558087	The Pope and the Heretic: The True Story of Giordano Bruno, the Man Who Dared to Defy the Roman Inquisition	Books	2	16	18	N	N	Unfocused and Unduly Light	I have a bad record of choosing books from the Airport Bookstores. I have made some really attrocious choices. This one is not that bad, but I could not recommend it to anyone. If I would have read the inside flap I would have realised that Michael White was the \\"Science Editor of British GQ Magazine\\" --- I did not know that anyone who read GQ would be even interested in Science, but if they are, there taste would be light to the point of idiocy, like this book.  <br /> <br />The title is inane enough. It lured me in like a sucker... I was interested in reading the counterpoint of what would be two personalities --- the Pope and Bruno. But the Pope does not even really appear in the book. <br /> <br />The main problem is twofold: <br /> <br />1) Lack of any discernable organisation. The book is a mess. It is hard to put together any discernable record of the like of Bruno after I read this --- was he in Frankfurt first and then Paris? Maybe it was the other way around?  <br /> <br />This means that White mixes everything up, chronology, main themes and the roles of people in the book. Ideas are not at all well developed. There is a sometimes peurile feeling about his writing style: when an idea is developed a little he switches to other things --- one feels that he is writing at times for the attention span of a 12- yr-old reader. <br /> <br />2) Weak development of themes inside the book. Scholastic ossification of the ideas of the Catholic Church is a great topic, but White's starts with a description of how Aristotle was always wrong on everything... and vaguely brushes him off as an almost personal hindrance to development of ideas. Such comic-book interpretations really show a lack of mastery of his subject. <br /> <br />White intimates a tremendous importance for the hermetic tradition, although he keeps this significantly nebulous (something that a reader of GQ or Omni might be interested in). As usual his work verges towards veneration for mysticism.  <br /><br />At the end of the day he should have marshalled his forces with more discipline and spent the time on making this into a serious work that it should be, and as Bruno deserves. It appears that he merely cranked this one out. He will pay for this as readers such as I will never buy another of his books.  <br /> <br />Back to the Thompson Twins Mr. White!    <br />	2004-09-06
US	49580074	R1O08JUFNOBVM3	0192803905	524758543	A Journal of the First Afghan War	Books	4	5	5	N	N	READ IT BEFORE YOU ARE DEPLOYED	I am surprised that I should be the first to review a book written in the 1840s that contains so much relevance for today. This is a story of one of the greatest epic expeditions ever to be completely annihilated at the hands of Afghan tribesman.     The first Afghan expedition has always held a certain romance for me... it is the ultimate failure. But that romance is tempered by the fact that the British Military incompetence (on this expedition at least) was more than profoundly flawed. They did almost everything wrong; split their forces and their command, cut deals with tribesmen who consisently either would not, or could not hold up their end of the bargain. Sited their encampment all wrong, and then, in the middle of winter, instead of sallying into the Forts of Kabul and wintering in the fortifications, they decided to take 5000 soldiers and 12,000 camp follower over the pass, in the middle of the Afghan winter -- back to Jalallabad and British India!     Of course they were slaughtered to a single man -- the sole survivor of almost 20,000 human beings --- Dr. Brydon, who wanders in, more dead than alive into the Jalalabad fort and safety.     Mrs. Sale describes the suffering of this force. The abandonment of the women and children, the wounded and weak. The absolute moral depravity the fugitives sank to... but she also describes the glory as well. Who can forget the glorious last stand of the 44th Essex Regt. at Gandamak -- where a force of 50 soldiers made a hopeless last stand on the top of a small hill, rallying to protect the camp followers in their midst. Then fighting, half frozen with rifle butts and bayonets as they were slaughtered and cut to pieces by the Afghan tulwars.     Mrs. Sale, the wife of an officer who eventually returned in the relief force 9 months later, was held captive by the wiley, yet probably largely sincere, partriot Ahkbar Khan -- the usurper of the throne (at least usurper of the British sponsored king. Khan was the son of theprevious king the British deposed).    It is all here: treachery, confusion, glory. But it is of course a lesson how NOT TO RUN a military operation. The basic nature of the scene is haunting --- the long military expedition to Kabul that stays a long time, brings and old king back to power (like today), then leaves and eventually nothing changes. It also shows you the fortitude of the simple Afghan soldier, their motivation, their unflinching support when they give their word, and their inability to unite, to always be divided along tribal lines... much like today. Mrs. Sale even concedes that although Ahkbar Khan may have wanted to protect the British fugitives, with his small force he would not risk outright war with local chiefs and the Ghzailes.    The action is fast and furious. Cavalry actions, large and small units actions with musket, sword and cannon. The book may not be so suitable for someone who knows nothing about British India or the foreign policy of Britain in India at the time. In addition the prevelance of India words for just about everything (as the British used to use back then) is confusing for people nowadays (how many non-Pashtu speakers know that a \\"Chupao\\" is a night attack?), but there is a marvellous glossary in the back for reference.     Mrs. Sale also writes well from a military angle and knows what is going on at all times, the tactics and is able to judge the effectiveness of each strategy the British use to survive... For all those NATO soldiers to be deployed in Afghanistan, read it before you are deployed.	2004-08-16
US	49580074	R1QXJH5G0I87B4	0375411569	597967363	Europe's Last Summer: Who Started the Great War in 1914?	Books	3	8	18	N	Y	THOSE CONNIVING GERMANS.... AGAIN!	I studied the causes of WWI in University in the 1980s. During this time the standard interpretations were based upon work done in the 50s and the 60s -- Fischer, Geist, AJP Taylor, Tuchmann and others were still the required reading for the time. They still are, so I asked myself throughout this book --- what sets it apart from that which it follows?     Fromkin did not dissapoint, but he did not supplant any of the previous historians either. Although the work of all the actors in this tragedy have been discussed, the real villians boil down to two people: Moltke and the Austrian Foreign Minister -- with supporting roles by the commander of the Austrian Army and the Geman Foreign Ministry.     The difference of this book and many others is that this small cabal actively propelled events forward at times when inertia would have held the powers in abeyance and a solution found (in much the same way that solutions were found in almost all of the crises that preceded the coming of WWI).     Therefore it was not a problem or \\"war by timetable\\" or an inane Kaiser and infantile Tsar. Nor was it that fault of that severely unbalanced race in the Balkans -- the Serbs --- that brought events rushing headlong into chaos (the Serbs actually were willing to cut a deal with Austria, when faced with overwhelming military might). And it had nothing to do with a Naval race between Britain and Germany Tirpitz knew he could not win so the German High Seas Fleet was always cautioning against war, until some time in the (yet unseen) future when Germany could really rival Britain.     No the real cause was Moltke in hand with the Austrian Foreign Ministry shaping events, withholding information, telling outright lies and giving pushes to individuals when necessary.     Moreover we find out how incidental Britain and France were to the whole process, only being forced to take action, when all other choices were clearly not options.     Again the German propensity to glibly play with thelives of Europe for some higher metaphysical purpose, emerges as a major cause of problems.    Overall I liked the book but the beginning has the feel of some worked over history notes -- short chapters and a text that does not flow so well. But the narrative roughly increases in detail and length the closer one gets to the actual declaration of war buy both sides.     Fromkin writes well, clearly, articulately and (Thank God!) succinctly; the text is a nice 300 pages without leaving anything out.     I would reccommend this book now as one of the best recent introductions to the causes of WWI (Forget Niall Ferguson!).But it does not detract from those greats that came 40 years before.	2004-08-15
US	49580074	R1J8VZCHAPDAYO	1859843824	583999917	Late Victorian Holocausts: El Niño Famines and the Making of the Third World	Books	3	61	87	N	Y	The Supposed Political Economy of Famine	Davis has created a book of monumental proportions, but in doing so he has put too much into the mix and tried to leaven it to  one thing -- economic imperialism causes famine.<br /><br />The sheer horror he describes is enough to make one shed tears in the opening chapters. The hardship of the Indian peasants and their harsh colonial overseers is shocking to imagine -- even by the standards of the mid 1800s.<br /><br />The central events Davis analyses are the major famines in India, China and Brazil in the 19th Century. With a major digression on the historicism of climatology and the advent of our understanding of major El Nino and Nina climatological events, Davis concludes that Environment exacerbated the climate, but that want was induced by the colonial systems, not climate by itself. Colonialism induced the following:<br /><br />1)widespread elimination of traditional modes of production. More village based and parochial gave way to more industrial, wage labour modes of production.<br /><br />2) a profound belief in Adam Smithian Economics and JSMill's notion of non-interventionism, which resulted in benign neglect or actions that actually exacerbated the famine.<br /><br />3) capitalism means that famine is actually not the lack of food. But the lack of the means of trade, the means of production to produce something in exchange for food.<br /><br />Ergo Capitalism in general and Imperialism in particular cause Famine.<br /><br />Davis has an excellent climatological history segment in the middle of the book. I really do not see how it is at all relevant to the above thesis. Besides being an interesting dialogue, if capitalism causes famine then why include a long climatoligical history at all.<br /><br />For Davis, as with all Marxists (and all idealogues for that matter, whether left or right) there is no room here in the explanation of actions for the role of human decision making. Humans only act in the way that economic forces shape them. It is of course the old charge against Marxism, of determinism writ large, and Davis suffers from this very much. Thus the Queen's Minister's in India, are responsible for the suffering (plausible), and her ministers make decisions purely out of economic motives. Even when they are moved to pity, economics overrides it and brings them back to being automotons driven by economics -- forced to do evil and strip the last amount of surplus value out of the Indian \\"riots\\" -- peasants. Thus all colonial officials and their local lackies are inescapable robots.<br /><br />The corrollary is of course that the local, traditional means of production were superior (the noble savage theory once again), but they were displaced by the newer modes of production, eg. Davis continually cites the fact the train lines and their spurs concentrated grain stores in single huge areas and did not distribute it as widely as the traditional Indian & Chinese methods. It is an interesting theory, but I do not know how he would prove it since his book includes no description of famines in pre-colonial times for any of the countries.<br /><br />Davis mentions briefly the famines in China in the 1950s / 60s directly instigated by the communist party. Yet, in true ideological style --- throw out common sense and flow with the dogma --- he makes the asinine statement that Mao's policies were driven with good intent, but he lacked a feedback mechanism to know what was actually going on --- millions died, but Mao's heart was in the right place.  This, in Davis' opinion, actively contrasts with the attitude of the British who actually engage in active efforts to make the famine worse.<br /><br />The above is plain idiocy, intellectually dishonest: contrasting the \\"Great Leap Forward Famine\\" with that of the British India Famines of 1877 and 1900, Mao created the famine and then mismanaged it. Even by Davis' own analysis, the British did not start such a famine.<br /><br />Also it is worthwile to note that in 400 pages of contrasting famines Davis does not once -- not once! --- mention the Stalinist famine in 1930s Soviet Union (where as many as 20,000,000 may have died). Such an oversight is done consciously and reminds me that Davis has put together a monumental book with a lot of original work, yet in final analysis it is a heavy ideological tract worthy of Lenin himself. Davis has his truth. It is that capitalism causes famines.<br /><br />I would caution Mike Davis to merely remember a simple fact. Both capitalists & Communists cause famine. The task is for the individual to respond morally in such times --- to say that actions are only dominated by economic theory is plainly wrong and not worthy of the observations of a well-read historian, which Mike Davis obviously is...to note that in 400 pages of contrasting famines Davis does not once -- not once! --- mention the Stalinist famine in 1930s Soviet Union (where as many as 20,000,000 may have died). Such an oversight is done consciously and reminds me that Davis has put together a monumental book with a lot of original work, yet in final analysis it is a heavy ideological tract worthy of Lenin himself. Davis has his truth. It is that capitalism causes famines.  <br /> <br />I would caution Mike Davis to merely remember a simple fact. Both capitalists & Communists cause famine. The task is for the individual to respond morally in such times --- to say that actions are only dominated by economic theory is plainly wrong and not worthy of the observations of a well-read historian, which Mike Davis obviously is... <br /> <br /> <br /> <br /> <br />  <br />	2004-08-13
US	49580074	R3NV7X7HOY0T67	0192854585	260617376	Jung: A Very Short Introduction	Books	4	13	13	N	Y	VERY GOOD INDEED	One cannot cover everything authoratatively in this series, but I think that the main goal is to stimulate further reading and interest in Jung and his works. This book succeeds.     Having read a lot of Jung in my early 20s I thought that it would be merely a review read, a sort of re-primer of my existing knowledge, which was, I must admit, clouded with a notion that Jung was little more than an interesting anti-rationalist, or -- at worst --- a dedicated metaphysician.     I was wonderfully reminded that even as Jung taps into things that are commonly regarded a perhaps a little flaky by those students of modern science, he always seems to raise a question of central relevance to humanity. It is these questions and his never ending quest to probe them --- not solve them --- that reminded me of why I was interested in this man in the first place.     A stimulating read.	2004-08-09
US	49580074	R1D0GJ4HWFFVWU	0471246905	990023836	"A Few Acres of Snow": The Saga of the French and Indian Wars	Books	2	15	17	N	N	Profoundly Dissapointing	The only way to approach this book is to start with the notion that you are interviewing your grandfather about his wartime experiences. His story will be good and it will hold your interest, but a lot of his story will be filled with personal anecdotes, wide digressions, and embellishments that test the bounds of credibility. So is it with Leckie in this book.     Leckie is a good example of a successful narrative historian that has let his success cloud his ability to write good books. At times this book flows well from page to page, but it a rare thing that is flows well from chapter to chapter. If there is any underlying organisation it is not evident. I think that Leckie was conceiving a book where he could narrate the events in Europe as a counterpoint to activities in North America. I am sure that this was the case because he offers a lot of detail about the riegning monarchs of the times and their internal stuggles in the UK and Europe.     But there is little connected narrative of any of these events and what happens in North America -- the chapters seem to float independent of each other --- events are jumbled and there is no undlying chronology that Leckie is aiming at.     Do not get me wrong. I am not expecting a scholarly read here. I am expecting an exciting read that at least is historically accurate and reflects the tenor of the times. But I wonder if I got that from this book. Large chunks of the book also seem dedicated to his own personal opinions about things as diverse as the US Marines in Iraq and the role of women in the the military nowadays (in a book on the French-Indian Wars??!). His footnote on women pilots is frankly bizaare and lacks any logic whatsoever or connection with the narrative. These should be banished from the text. Shame on the editor.     Another annoyance is that his storytelling is a little too interpretive for my liking. I understand, and like, that people try to read into the feelings of people at a certain time abouta certain situation. Thus we have people who can rather authoritatively state the mindset of Churchill or Washington, about a certain event. Or even, as in the case of this book, that Frontenac regarded the snow as beastly (probably a safe bet). But this conjuring goes too far in his description of the Dutch Settlers, constructing a whole dialogue in broken English with Dutch accents..... ditto at times for the French, he has them speaking in English with French accents!!). At times like these the book seems written for 13 yrs olds.     Also it is clear that Leckie knows no French (which is OK, I only have a smattering myself), he merely again lifted words out of other authors texts and then repeats them in his text. Some of the usage is plain wrong! Since the fall of Quebec is central in this history of Canada, I am sure that Mr. Leckie will not sell too many texts north of the border where basic French ability is assumed for any historian (or person).     In addition I checked Chris Hibbert's wonderful 1960 book \\"Wolfe At Quebec\\" and found that Leckie has literally lifted pages from that book and placed them in his book. Sure it is in quotes, but it shows that Leckie is really trading on his own former success to pump out garbage history and make few more bucks, a la Stephen Ambrose (may he rest in peace).        I would have to disagree with some of the comments about Leckie being either for or against the British. I think he is pretty even handed. Frontenac shines through and is a true Canadian hero. British (read American) military commanders are also taken to task and the French are quite rightly regarded as the best infantrymen and irregular fighter in North America at the time the story is told. The reason they lost having to do with the fact that French Canada was 1/6 the size of the British Colonies, and that they were run on a feudal economic model.     If you are thinking of reading this genre, do not waste time with this book. Read, \\"The Crucible of War\\" or, a lovely historical narrative from the early 60s by Thomas B Costains called, \\"The White and the Gold.\\"	2004-08-09
US	49580074	R1YBN47MJ9V64T	0156421178	802050474	Homage to Catalonia	Books	5	32	34	N	N	Getting Shot in the Neck in the Name of Anarcho-Syndicalism	Ever wonder what it is like be shot right through the neck? Ever wonder what it is like to stare over open sights at an enemy soldier with his pants down (literally) relieving himself? Would you shoot? Ever wonder what it is like to fight with allies that may be as worse than the common enemy? <br />Orwell experienced all of this and more as a member of one of the more obscure Spanish militias fighting for the Spanish Republic during the bloody internecine Spanish Civil War. He also became incredibly dissillusioned in the process. Finding his beliefs in revolutionary socialism, he was already jaded by communism and the cynical use it was put to serve Stalin's interests. He opted for a more loose organisation and therefore choose to enroll with the Anarcho-Syndicalists as a foreign volunteer in the Spanish Civil War. His particular group was called the POUMists (an acronym that I need not summarize here). <br />Ill-equipped and with no training, they showed what raw idealism can do against Franco and his fascist oppression -- they stopped fascism cold on the battle field and were never found wanting in terms of courage. What did defeat them was the United Front launched by the Cominterm against International Fascism. For those that did not tow the line, Stalin's advisors and compadours inside the Spanish Communist Party sacrificed. Denied weapons, ammunition and food, the coalition --- made up a broad spectrum of liberal-democrats, progressives, socialists, communists, anarchists (and every shade between) --- were defeated in piece-meal battles. Orwell was shaped and scarred by the experience. Although always a social progressive, he realised that idealism in its most extreme forms could be as bad as the fascism one was fighting against. This shaped his eternal mistrust of Communism (but not as some rightist's bizaarly claim, push him into being some kind of conservative demigod).<br />This book has it all: a trenchent analysis of political history, a serious war biography, a good slice of military narrative, and a chronicle of idealist growth, development and abandoning of a former way of thinking... <br />Without a doubt one of my top 5 war biographies and one of the top 25 reads of my entire life, so far....	2004-07-02
US	49580074	RXOX1T6BB5AYD	0140080686	3966194	A Portrait of Lord Nelson	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Nelson, the Man and the Myth	Nelson may be one of the top ten people who ever lived to have some many biographies written about themselves. The number is stupendous and someone, like me,  with no specialisation in his biographies would be daunted by the task of sifting through them. This paperback is now out of print. But it is readily available in almost any second-hand bookshop. <br />I think however that the vast majority of people do not read more than one or two biographies of Nelson in their lives. This was my second. The first was Hibbert's mass paperback. I liked this volume much better than Hibbert's. I think that I got a much more well-rounded opinion of the man and his leadership style. I do not know if this has so much to do with the fact that Hibbert uses more quotes from Nelson's personal papers than Warner, or whether there is really an interpretive difference. In Hibbert Nelson always seems like a love-blinded conceited wanker with almost prima-donna like pretentions. Warner seems to give a more balanced measure of the man. <br />The leadership style of Nelson is really something that all can learn from: world leaders or captains of industry. Being compassionate for the right reasons, but absolutely ruthless in insisting upon the best in his men and setting the standard himself. He was an unabashed believer in aristocracy and priveledge, but that rarely let him assume that he deserved more than he got. Warner describes this quality in well; he testified in support of the former Royal Navy captain turned Irish Rebel. The man had been a loyal servent of the King and Nelson could only attest of his good qualities while serving with him. He also saved an AWOL seaman from the gallows. This contrasts to his whipping of those, according to RN policy who had stepped out of line, or were found wanting in battle. <br />Warner stresses the entire definition of Naval Battle &quot;success&quot; changed under Nelson -- nothing less than decisive defeat would define the nature of sea battles,from Nelson's time to Jutland, Midway and Leyte Gulf. Until that time the old line-em-up-and-pound-each-other ship battles, continuing until one had had enough, became more and more a rarity. Those captains that did not close with the enemy to destroy him were roundly ostricised. The &quot;Nelson Touch&quot; now became the norm. <br />One is tempted to skip the chapters with Lady Hamilton (or hold one's nose). I think I need to read more of Nelson before I reach the conclusion that this greatest of heros was really fatally flawed when it came to his taste in women... but maybe that is one of the definitions of the most enduring heros.	2004-06-29
US	49580074	R1L0E9HIG94MWO	1559706562	844223850	Blood of Revolution: From the Reign of Terror to the Rise of Khomeini	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Five Stars for Sheer Entertainment	The \\"Whisper of the Blade\\" (The UK/ Canada title for this book) should serve as a cold shower for all of those who believe that revolutionary thought, processes or actions have ever added anything positive to the world. Healthy youth demands idealism (indeed one could say that a neo-conservative youth is by definition dysfunctional), but age and wisdome demands that cooler heads prevail and that the past serve as a guide to incremental change. When it does not, then the world goes out of whack very quickly and people get killed in ever increasing amounts as people try to pound people to fit their historical theories. Whether they be the forces of the French Revolution or those of Che Gueverra, they usually lead to the wholesale abuse of people and mass murder. <br />It is this phenomemon that Durkschmied convey with great brilliance. As a youthful journalist he felt the allure of revolutionary politics. In later days after reporting over 4 decades he has come to see the boneyard that revolutionary ideals has heaped upon man in the 20th Century and their sometimes equally bloody reactionary backlash.<br />The historical detail starts with the watchmaker King Louis XVI and his inability to change in any way to alleviate the suffering of his people early until it was too late. Even at the end when a little \\"whiff of grapeshot\\" and a reform policy would have staved off revolution, he ordered the Swiss Guard to lay down weapons to be torn to pieces by the French Mob. <br />Equal tragedies such as the Spartikist Revolution, the Iranian Revolution, the last days of Che Gueverra, and the reactionay palace coup of the Japanese militarists and the courageous, yet fruitless resistence of the anti-Nazi forces in July 44 are all well documented. <br />All of these events have been better written about by other academics and mass narrative historians. The real difference is that Durkschmeid is really looking for a time, sequence, event and decision, where the success or failure of a revolution or coup either failed or was made succeesful. In the French Revolution he does isolate the key role of the Swiss Guard. Frankly speaking, I think that Durkschmeid may be cutting history to fit his own personal dimensions. I really don't care. The narrative is so exciting. <br />How exciting? I carried this book on an ice-climbing expedition and could not wait until we finished the route and returned to the tent.... there, dog-tired, I ploughed through another 50 pages until my eyelids slipped and the adventure would be continued on the morrow. <br />(...)	2004-06-23
US	49580074	RNCLZ16LZV69G	1558215492	184757711	Annapurna	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Warts and All Simply the Best	When my Mum bought a beaten early edition back from the Hospital Auxillary Store it sat on my shelf for about a year before I decided to take it up. I had read tons of mountaineering literature before that time and much since, but this book is one of the benchmarks against which all others are measured. It is simply one of the greatest adventure stories. It is also proof that truth is indeed stranger than fiction. ( I am also aware of the fact that this is a very self-serving account of the expedition and that other players in this grande drama may have not recieved their due -- I will not address that in this review).    For those who are more familiar with all of the traditional British siege tactics used in the 50's, 60s and 70s will find French tactics and the general story familiar. What is different is the extended struggle for survival at altitude that is truly amazing. Having some mountaineering experience myself in extreme cold (though not at this altitude) I was constantly amazed by their ability to cheat death, just when you figure that they are all for the worms. Spending the night inside the crevasse is one of great fingernail biters of all time chapters. I am just left shaking my head that anyone could survive after a night without boots in extreme cold, at altitude --- and then attempt crawl off the mountain the next morning --- in stocking feet.     Of course they paid for it. Herzog himself supporating all over Nepal and Northern India, loosing digits and appendages for the glory of France.     This account is clearly colonial, sanitised in some points, and omits some of the fine climbing by other members of the group... so be it --- screw post-modernism, Jean Paul Sartre, and doubt. It is still one of the best ripping yarns in the mountaineering genre --- that modern climbers suffused with petty personal ego problems, the quest for personal gain and money could ever write so well --- that would be a miracle. Let the plain tales of the quest for rotten glory riegn.     Look for a worm eaten, faded copy. It will hold pride of place on your adventure shelf for many years to come.	2004-06-12
US	49580074	R2I9QO7UEFW5FH	0192854569	349608980	Galileo: A Very Short Introduction	Books	4	14	17	N	N	Sacrificed to Aristotle and the Gods of Philosopohy	In this slim volume is packed the central thesis of one of the foremost students of Galileo: <BR>1) that Galileo was not a victim of the inquisition but rather the Aristotelean method of reasoning particulars of Science from theoretical ideas. Galileo thought that experience, measurability and prediction should be the guide. Grand ideas he left to the Church and philosophers. Perhaps he was a little too naive in assuming that the inquisition would leave him alone. But it was in the defence of Aristotle that the inquisition indicted him. Not mere religious intolerance (which of course there was plenty). <br />The other observation was the in-fighting and jockeying inside the academic community for political and religious favour -- the competition for well-paying university seats was intense and Galileo was a direct victim of academics who ruthlessly pilloried him to gain favour. <br />2) Galileo was no crusader directly challenging the power of the church. He in fact had many freinds as high-archbishops and even a was a personal friend of the Pope. His desire was never to challenge the church and the church only very reluctantly charged him with &quot;teaching&quot; the doctrine of Copernicus and Kepler. <br />This is a great jumping off point for further studies on Galileo. I love this series.	2004-05-25
US	49580074	R81TPWCCYJDF	0094775605	553179332	Napoleon in Russia	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A Good Chew of Narrative History	This is a reprint of the 1965 released edition of Alan Palmer's classic introduction to Napoleon's Russian Campaign. This is probably one of the best overviews of the campaign. Palmer writes well and has a good grasp of the facts. He was the teacher of Sir Martin Gilbert so that alone should serve as an inspirational note.<br />The action is fast and intense. In his less than 300 pages, Palmer does just about everything right: he has a grasp of the Man and his tactics, a good overview of the campaign, the cut and thrust of battle (with some small unit actions) and a very good flavour of the major generals on both sides. As if that were not enough Palmer does exactly the same thing for the Russians  --- Tsar Alexander and Kutuzov come alive, and their rather enigmatic and uninspiring nature is well described. <br />There is almost nothing weak in this book and one can use it as a jumping off point of the campaigns before and after. For those that are looking for a good narrative on Napoleon and the Russian Campaign, this is a good place to start, or a good place to review and learn more about this most exciting campaign.	2004-05-17
US	49580074	R2LQW321L7ISZ8	0385721862	417958158	World on Fire: How Exporting Free Market Democracy Breeds Ethnic Hatred and Global Instability	Books	2	40	52	N	N	VERY DISSAPOINTING SCHOLARSHIP: NOT WORTH THE TIME	Wether you agree with Amy or not is not the point of this book. The quality of its scholarship is however: the book is badly written, poorly researched, poorly edited, and evinces all the traits of coffee-table dillitantes. Although Amy is a Lawyer, that does not necessarily preclude her from arguing tightly outside her discipline. Coming from a prestigious university however one expects A LOT more.<br />The problems are manifold: <br />1) No real reasearch: evidence is anecdotal and butressed largely with popular magazine articles with no journals and few scholarly first sources. <br />Even credible secondary sources are lacking. Of particular note is her citing of Jared Daimond's \\"Guns, Germs and Steel\\" (a good book, but hardly a historical reference) for describing the actions of Pizzaro. Seems like she just reached on the shelf for the closest book on anything dealing with South America. And this lack of feel for history extends virtually through even topic she covers. <br />She has the regular dillitante habit of citing personal anecdotes as \\"evidence\\" --- usually some dinner party, in-class student experience, or cocktail party question. But she doesn't really pull it off because most of her experieces are... well frankly boring.  People like Lawrence Friedman and Kaplan do this much better --- and they have actually been to the troubled spots of the world and have a story to tell. They also have deep understanding of the culture they are critiquing. Better to leave this type of story telling to those who really have \\"stories\\" to tell. <br />2) Amy shows all the worst habits of a particular (American?) scholarship that is gaining acceptance in its Universities ---the attempt to impose a subjective order on facts --- to take dissonant information and make it fit theories: every event seemingly magnifies her thesis, every exception proves the rule. One wonders is Amy Chou has ever read any Karl Popper? <br />Her thesis is that US Foreign Policy exports Globalism(poorly defined by Amy) and democracy is a volitile mix that supports economically dominant ethnic minorities and exacerbates tensions between then and the economic underclass in their respective countries. <br />I have no doubt that there is an element of veracity in what she says. But she is describing really: a) the nature of conflict, and b) ethenic politics. Both are historical constants. Moreover how is \\"Globalism\\" different from Colonialism and British supporting indigenous races ---- quantitatively different --- from what Amy proposes? To answer this would demonstrate a good grasp of history and a rigourous scientific approach to knowledge --- it would mean that she understands the importance of \\"falsifiability\\". <br />3) She has an extremely weak grasp of history. Good cross-discipline writers are not too hard to find: JK Galbraith, Bronowski, J Diamond, Isaiah Berlin, Keith Windshuttle, even Victor Davis Hansen (who suffers from other faults) and Paul Johnson. But Amy is really out of her depth here and it shows with her lack of citing primary and secondary sources of repute (sometimes no sources at all), and outright factual errors. Some betray a gnawing ignorance of the world. eg. She states that the \\"British\\" did not intermarry with local indians in their colonies like the Spanish did in the South American. For the English this remains true. For the Scots and Irish, this is patently false. Has Amy never heard of the Metis in Canada or the Black Scots of the Carribean (who still run some of the original cane plantations), or the Eurasians of Indian (once a dominant minority). <br />Trenchant social commentary with historical analysis requires long reading in many disciplines and an ability to subject your ideas to the scrutiny of piers. History is not like a legal argument. It cannot be made to fit personal theories with little regard for \\"truth\\". She needs to demonstrate a good appraisal of all ideas at hand, consider them  --- as a synthesis of ideas-- not a linear supportive argument in favour of her theories.   <br />4) No citing of the Foreign Policy drivers. There is no discernable connection between a foreign policy action and its effect. There is only Amy Chou affirming that US foreign policy, with emphasis on underwriting a certain policy, made a certain thing worse or shored up the economically dominant position of a specific ethnic group allowing them to dominate, persecute or be persecuted. There is little description or quantitative analysis of any US foreign policy (or any other country for that matter). This is the heart of foreign affairs writing and something that Kaplan and Friedman do well. <br />5) Poorly edited. The book reads like one very long newspaper article. In its present form it could very comfortably be stuffed into 150 pages. Nuff said on this point. <br />At the end of the day there is nothing that Amy could not be cured of if she took a good first-year course in History or Classics at almost any British University (or British Commonwealth University for that matter) and had to try to defend her central thesis. At its best Amy Chuo's writing exhibits all the worst effects of the rise of dilletentes in the making of US Foreign Policy. <br />The gruel was so thin that I could not justify my time in reading beyond 200 pages....Even Chomsky is much better than Chou, at least he is consistent and interesting, and makes one consider things -- even if he is wrong most of the time !	2004-05-13
US	49580074	R3OA2MBOT8C25J	0375508260	649819248	Paris 1919: Six Months That Changed the World	Books	4	3	5	N	N	The Ultimate Narrative History of Versailles	Review of British/ Canadian Edition (Title is &quot;The Peacemakers&quot;) <br />That such a narrative history could be feted by the world at large and be a best-seller in the English speaking world speaks volumes about the timeless nature of the search for international peace and, more importantly, the rich writing style of MacMillan. It is a very accessible book and one that should be read by the world's leaders and the general public. <br />The book tries to cover all aspects the peace conference dealth with. In 500 pages that is hard, but there are chapters on all relevant countries and issues: for every country from China Hungary. Not surprisingly some topics are dealt with better than others. I was a little surprised at the German Treaty. It actually takes up less than 100 pages in this book. There is so much to cover that it is not surprising that one feels a little cheated in details. <br />A few areas that are covered well is the attitude of Italy and is puerile histrionics at the talks and its boastful stance worthy of its eventual leader Mussolini. Hungary is the real orphan of the treaty with no friends at all. Rumania the great winner despite being on both sides in the war. China and Japan and the nacsent warfare between them boils below the surface with Japan's claims on China and the Shantung Penninsula. <br />I liked this book a lot, but I thought it was a little blown out of porportion. I have honestly read better history of the early 20th Century (eg. Piers Brendon's &quot;The Dark Valley), but I was still noticably impressed. <br />In our postmodern world where everyone is a critic judging the problems of yesteryear through the lens of today, this may look like a bunch of stodgy toffs of the leaders of western countries making imperialistic decisions on the broad unshaped territories of the world. MacMillan to her credit rarely judges. She, like most people who read and incredible amount of history, realise that there are rarely good choices devoid of negative consequences. There is only a whole lot of bad choices and an even greater range of worse choices. Even in the establishment of the Palastine Mandate it is hard to see what the eventual outcome would be. If anything the British come across -- again -- as the far-sighted imperialists, ruling indirectly, trying to square the circle between US idealism and French/ Japanese raw territorial aggression. Their experience meant that they usually knew the consequences of their actions. They also had much more of a mature democracy with an independent press that was less willing to give carte blanche approval to the imperial moves of national policy. This contrasts with the French and the Italian press, which were essentially arms of the national policy when needed (some may say this has not changed in the case of Berlusconi). <br />All in all a great book. worthy of plaudits, but I honestly do not know if it is as great as it is commonly touted to be.	2004-04-19
US	49580074	R151DXQNEIRZPH	0700612343	625448828	Hitler Strikes Poland: Blitzkrieg, Ideology, and Atrocity (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	17	19	N	Y	THE CORROSIVE INFLUENCE OF NAZI IDEOLOGY ON SOLDIERS	If you read the title you will see that this book is NOT a military history of the Polish Campaign. That in-depth history has yet to be written. Therefore let me warn any future readers looking for a detailed description of the campaigns and the sweep of the panzers, the gallant fighting of the Poles replete with maps, you shall have to look elsewhere. <br />The books central thesis could be summarised thus: historical interpretations of the Polish campaign have focused on it as the opening phase of a world war, where the harsh realities of battle on the Eastern Front and ideology of terror imbibed within Naziism did not give full vent. In fact as Rossino recounts, all the elements of Nazi Terror found expression from the first day of the war in Nazi occupied Poland. <br />- SS Order Police were fully integrated behind the line and were detailed to pick up political and Jewish leaders and members of the polish \\"intelligensia\\" <BR>- Nazi ideology served as a well-spring to preciptate attrocities and aggravate encounters that turned into ferocious expressions of violence towards men, women and children --- without ideology some of these soldiers would have been controlled by their officers, or restrained by other men in their unit.  <BR>- the tendency to view Poles and Jews as inferior to Germans, and German Culture, gave full expression by the wanton and unprecipated killing of Polish civilians for no reason other than personal pleasure.<BR>- in addition to SS and other terror elements, the Wehrmacht was equally responsible for the killing of civilians and POWs for no reason other than to terrorise the population or to \\"cleanse\\" it. And when reasons were lacking Poles were killed merely because they were viewed as members of a lesser race. Common sympathy were negated by ideology.<br />All of the above happened from Sept 01st. Although the mass factory killings are absent, it is clear that that is only a matter of time. The fact remains that Poland was the first testcase of a terrific expression of volience of the average German Soldier towards civilians and POWs. <br />Besides the general attrocities commited in this book particular to Poland, I think that Rossino hits upon a grander issue. That is the issue of the corrosive influence of ideology on the mind of soldiers. In some cases commanders tried to stop the killings or discipline German troops or the SS. In most cases it was not because of a common human sympathy for the plight of Poles or Jews, it was merely for maintaining order in the rear and discipline within the army ranks. These few people found it immpossible to go through regular military authorities to discipline German soldiers guilty of attrocities. The system, conditioned by ideology thwarted them. In addition the German soldier also knew that he could kill with impugnity, and without compassion, as long as he was killing those of \\"lesser races.\\"<br />This should serve as a chilling reminder or the importance of order in the ranks or any army during military operations, and the importance of dealing with any element that would think of the enemy as less than human. The German road to aggression in Poland is not a straight one to Auschwitz .... it is however, the start of the journey.	2004-04-08
US	49580074	R3G8V2QOQPAALC	0719565057	833214218	The Last Crusade: The Palestine Campaign in the First World War	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Too Dry and Nowhere Near Enough Detail	On this obscure subject it would not take much to please me --- this campaign is oft overlooked but full of interesting figures on the fringes of Empire and combines the Arab Nationalist Movement with Lawrence et al., with the grit of the British Army under Allaby. <br />The narrative is not so much dry, but is on such a scale that it fulfills no reasonable accomplishment of scholarly or pop history: there is little of the political machinations at the macro level and few personal accounts that lend a &quot;face&quot; to the fighting. Unit action is described at Divisional and Brigade Level, which is the worst level for military narratives -- that is the stuff of official Divisional histories --- but not the stuff that makes a good read. Narratives need to come alive and this one falls flat on its face. There are few military books that I do not finish. This one I had to give up after about 2/3 s of the way through. <br />A real shame because I think that this could have have been a real stirling effort. Even the divisional actions are really berift of enough maps with details (Some actions are decribed in the dialogue in villages that are not on the map). This is a problem with other military histories in general, but it is pathological in this book. Arabs are faceless and Lawrence seems more like a bureaucrat than a fighter.<br />I am sorry Mr. Bruce, you need to do better next time, especially with something as important as this campaign.	2004-03-24
US	49580074	RKZOZSO8NO9GH	0002726874	552381525	Quartered Safe Out Here: A Recollection of the War in Burma	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A CLASSIC ACCOUNT OF THE RECONQUEST OF BURMA	While Britain was ingloriously kicked out of SE Asia in 1941, their soldiers seemed to exemplify the worst effects of years of defeat and despair. The debacle of Burma and Singapore and the debilitating effects of defeat infected both the British, Indian and Commonwealth armies. After the defeats and the long road back is where George Mac Fraser comes in. <br />The British and Indian Armies has been integrated trained and tested in the rugged battles of Imphal and Kohima. The Black Cat Division full of men from mostly Cumbria, are ready to be tested in the long road back to Rangoon. Fraser recounts his role in the big push to capture most of Burma and then the mop-up operations with British Special Forces in the closing weeks of the war. <br />Fraser's autobiographical writing is characteristically wry and at times cynically humourous. At other times he evinces what one may call the \\"ugly\\" side of the racist feeling of the enemy that filled the heads of both sides in this conflict. Like a lot of authors of the same era, Japanese are \\"Japs\\" and they are a lesser form of humanity. Lesser because they kill, rape and murder and kill British POWs to a degree that the British soldier (and any normal human being) finds shocking. What happens is, in turn, a dehumanisation of the British/ Indian soldier and any notion of him being a gentlemanly warrior. Quarter is neither asked nor given. Killing Japs and more Japs becomes the end in itself. When the initial offence breaks the backs of the main line of Japanese defence, the Gurkhas hunt Japanese with their long Kukris, Indian troops kill Japanese wounded, and the British go for vengence.<br />At the end of the book Fraser is aware of the mentality engendered on him and his men. He makes no apologies for it. In one of his more famous quotes he asks if the British soldier fully cognizent of what the A Bomb would do the Japanese women and children would withhold bombing if giving the choice. He answers that if it could in someway end the suffering on the Burma Front by shortening the hell they faced, then the British Soldier would join in a single chorus that \\"yes use the damned thing....\\" <br />It is chilling in the sense what this war in the jungle did to them. Fighting far from home in a jungle with sparse rations, rotting clothes, little rest, constant wet of the monsoons or constant dryness of the central plains --- the wasting of the body and the mind is much in evidence in this book. <br />Fraser also loved his mates and the times he spent with them. Those days around fires on the Central Plains the intial rush to capture Rangoon before the Monsoon rains is very poetically detailed by this warrior Scot. Seven years after reading this book I can still remember his description of when the chase ends and the first drops of the monsoon rains come as the weary troops rest on the road to Rangoon. <br />The British Warrior poet is a much more developed genre than its American counterpart. In this war there are many good British haunting memoirs about the Burma Front and the \\"Fogotten War.\\"<BR>But this is still one of the best and stays with you a very long time.	2004-03-23
US	49580074	R3BBSAXBYNP4EZ	0375500618	891218312	Fire in the Night: Wingate of Burma, Ethiopia, and Zion	Books	4	20	21	N	N	NOT THE STANDARD WARRIOR GENTLEMAN	Having been brought up on stories from my early years about the brave and often forgotten exploits of the Chindits I was very enthused to tuck into this book. Orde Wingate has been the hero of many, not so much because he was a military successful warrior, but because he was wildly unconventional at a time when staid ethics and methods of war were leading to defeats of the western allies on all fronts. <br />A fierce Old Testament fear and learning of the bible bread in what would now be called a fundementalist christian family, he blended this with [...] eccentricities like, indifference to appearing nude before his collegues and newspapermen, a complete indifference to British Monarchy and the hierarchical class-bound society and way of thinking. An appreciator of new ideas and probably quite to the left of many of his superiors, he had no hestation in punishing and physically striking his recruits (no matter their colour), and could kill the enemy mercilessly, or order large groups knowingly to their death without a blink. <br />Wingate pioneered unconventional warfare with his notion that large unit groups can function in the rear of the enemy for long periods of time if they were self-sufficient and well trained. He eschewed the entire idea of \\"special forces\\" as they are often called nowadays. In the end I do not think that he squared the circle large unit action and special forces --- he wanted both and got really neither. His tactics worked rather well against the Italians (but that was no surprise he realised), but they were problematic against the Japanese. The first operation, \\"Long Cloth\\" was an unmitigated disaster, with enough adventures from its many participants to fill an entire library (they still make some of the most heart thumping reads available). The entire operation broke down and became in some cases, every man for himself. Wingate himself giving the order. <br />His second operation was more problematic. No doubt these operations had significant effect on the enemy and no doubt were very helpful in the taking of Myikyena and Mogang, but I really think that 14th Army would have rolled up the Japanese flank nicely anyway, as they did and win the Battle of Burma with overwhelming firepower and troops as well unmitigated air superiority. <br />In the end the Japanese in Burma were beaten by traditional large unit engagements. <br />That is not a defeat of the ideas of Orde Wingate, nor do they negate the incredible bravery of the men who served with him. What it does DO however is to put to rest the idea that Orde Wingate was a purveyor of \\"Truth\\" -- his ideas were worthy, but they were not the be-all end-all of jungle combat.  His developments were prodigeous and his personal bravery never in doubt. But I think that, like Moses, he got involved too much in fanatical devotion to one idea and was willing to sacrifice a lot for an idea. In the case of Moses, his people --- in the case of Wingate, it was often his own troops. <br />This books admirably chronicles the multifacted nature of Wingate. It is factual and comes across as neutral as possible, often citing critical sources and those men (also of incredible courage) that did not fall under his spell. <br />The narrative is tight and WELL EDITED. Unlike your regular 1000 page biography Smith and Beirman are able to deal with the subject adequately in 400 pages with nothing substantive missing. Also there is just enough detail of almost all of his life. The final 150 pages deals with the Burma campaign the authors are very skillful in their use of detail. They include all of the crucial elements necessary of his many campaigns. <br />I found the book to be a very admirable read. I think that it only deepened the questions I have about Wingate --- was he a daring experimenter or a madman? --- I think that one can add, bitterly-troubled person to the heap of other appelations surrounding this man.<br />I still ask myself, if this man were my commander would I succumb and become a convert? Would I stand aloof and protest that something is terribly wrong? I do not know, and cannot judge because I was not born at the time these events transpired. I was not a part of this great crusade, the glory they gained or the horrors they endured.	2004-03-18
US	49580074	R1LNFFSTQSJDK	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	3	94	102	N	N	ONCE AGAIN, NOT DAWKINS BEST	As a layperson of Science I have no critisism of Dawkins whatsoever. I agree with the fundamentals of all his points. As a major thinker in evolution biology it behooves me to listen to him. But since I have read the majority of his work I think that I can comment on how this volume stacks up against his other volumes.<br />I cannot help thinking that Dawkins is at his worst when he does two things: tries to assume a Carl Sagan-like mantle of the scientist who is describing the wonders of Science in general, and; when he issues a book that repeats in pale prose other ideas better introduced in his other works. It is this latter critisism that I would level at him him in this book. <br />I had the distinct notion that I had either read these essays before, or that they had been gleaned from assorted previously published introductions in other books. I have to say that from what I found in the English Edition of this book, there was no evidence to back up my predjudice --- still the feeling was always there and certainly the thematic details of several of his books were contained within the pages of this book, from the \\"Selfish Gene\\" to the \\"Blind watchmaker\\" to the importance of memes in the development of language and cultures. <br />Moreover I had this same uneasyness when I read \\"Unweaving the Rainbow\\" --- some parts were great, but some parts were absolutely uninspiring (the hedge sparrows were absolutlely  soporific). <br />This slender volume could not compare with the three classics, really the ones worth reading: \\"The Selfish Gene\\" \\" The Extended Phenotype\\" and \\" The Blind Watchmaker.\\"  <br />In a world where a lot of good books compete for our time, R. Dawkins works are important. But I think that one can get more out of concentrating (or even re-reading) the three books above by Dawkins and leaving his lesser works as possible introductions to his ideas (though once again, I think that his main works offer a better introduction to his ideas than these essays).	2004-02-29
US	49580074	R8PWWKMKQWN39	0965320855	886398405	Staring into Chaos: Explorations in the Decline of Western Civilization	Books	3	10	10	N	Y	A VERY GOOD OVERVIEW	This book deals with a subject that has been overlooked and often discredited ---the idea of Grand History, or the notion that history's trends, currents and eddies, are known, or can be known, charted, devined, and (in its broadest outlines) predicted. That was the thesis of the three grand history theorists discussed in this book, Spengler, Toynbee and Sorokin.<br />That such notions have been both discredited and dismissed in the modern world, is probably not surprising; there is little if any empirical proof that one can being to bear; interpretation as to where society is at any stage of development is highly subjective, and if theory only predicts in terms of epochs (of unmeasurable interludes) then predictabily becomes a fallacy.<br />And that is why any notion of grand history has been undermined. From Marx & Hegel to Samuel P. Huntingdon and Francis Fukuyama (writers whose ideas are not discussed in this book) all ability to analyse the past and present and predict the future is merely imposing the outlines of a particulary ideaology upon the society, or civilisation in question.<br />That being the case, like all thinkers there are certain timeless ideas that grand historical theory (commonly known as \\"historicism\\") brings into question. What defines a society?  When has the society or civilisation reached its appotheosis? What leads to its destruction and ascendancy by other societies? What stage of development are we currently living in?<br />These are legitimate, though perhaps unaswerable, questions. Each theorist has their own explanation. I found the book very interesting in that is does force one's mind towards thinking of greater questions about society and ascendent civilisations.<br />Thinking in terms of Toynbee, for example, is the US the new universal world imperium, increasingly insular and unable to adjust to the outside barbarians knocking at the door?Does the increasing rise of irrational religion and turning of people towards mysticism signal the return of a new dark age?<br />One has to be careful here. One is tempted to say yes to all of the above, but even cursory glance at US corporate domination reveals a fairly healthy ascendancy of science and technology that dominate and thrive in international world competition. Does that merely mean that the US is in the last stages of civilisation like the flowering of the Greek states before civil war and eventual supplanting by the imperium of Rome? Or does it just mean that these thinkers got it wrong and they have nothing to contribute in terms of modern thinking? I neither know, nor have the answer. Part of the beauty of the human journey is the survival of the individual and the society to adapt and feel comfortable with not having ALL of the answers, but never flinch in striving to understand --- even though you know that the effort is doomed from the start, the journey is more important than the arriving --- indeed one never arrives. That for me is the appeal of this book. It purports several journeys into historical understanding. Although I do not agree with the end result, the journey is exhilarating.<br />The following caveats apply to this book:<br /><br />1) It is an overview of the theories, not a critical appraisal. As such it serves as an admirable outline to the thoughts of these three thinkers.<br /><br />2) The critical analysis comes at the end of the book, but it does not include enough linkage with other modern exponents of Grand Historical Theory (Huntingdon, Kennedy, and Fukuyama) as well as other historical antecedents (Hegel, Marx and Nordau).<br /><br />3) It is well written, but at times I think that the author unconsciouly mimics the style of the historians he is describing. But that does not detract from the flow of the work.<br /><br />4) All of the three thinkers analysed attribute undue significance to the strength of Christianity in the development of the West. Its decline also signals its demise. I am sure that this isoverly simplistic.<br />5) In addition that selection of Sorokin with Toynbee and Spengler is also highly selective; Sorokin is not recognised as a historian per se. He was one of the fathers of modern Sociology. His inclusion is probably just the preference of the writer more than any overt similarity with the other Great Theory Historians.<br />6) There are also some serious typo errors, particularly at the end of the section on Toynbee. This needs to be corrected in future editions -- on some pages there are up to 10 typos.<br />In sum this book is great for those who like to think of eternal questions. Who love a good cup of tea late at night with a good book pondered long after put down. It is a book for those grasping at the edges of history, trying to find a pattern where there is none. It is a book for those who feel happy knowing that there are no good answers of absolute truth, only a whole lot of good questions. The joy of living is in asking the questions. The dark danger in living will always be with those who KNOW the answer.simplistic. <br />5) In addition that selection of Sorokin with Toynbee and Spengler is also highly selective; Sorokin is not recognised as a historian per se. He was one of the fathers of modern Sociology. His inclusion is probably just the preference of the writer more than any overt similarity with the other Great Theory Historians. <br />6) There are also some serious typo errors, particularly at the end of the section on Toynbee. This needs to be corrected in future editions -- on some pages there are up to 10 typos.<br />In sum this book is great for those who like to think of eternal questions. Who love a good cup of tea late at night with a good book pondered long after put down. It is a book for those grasping at the edges of history, trying to find a pattern where there is none. It is a book for those who feel happy knowing that there are no good answers of absolute truth, only a whole lot of good questions. The joy of living is in asking the questions. The dark danger in living will always be with those who KNOW the answer.	2004-02-29
US	49580074	R12RRU3NJ1JF7R	0898866995	94945383	Ghosts of Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	3	7	13	N	N	A Lesson on How Money is Replacing Adventure	This book allowed me to analyse why I have not read too many books on Mtn Climbing in the past few years. I am a climber and the genre was important to me for a big part of my life. Reading through this book made me realise how much climbing has not only changed from the days of Mallory, but even from the old siege operations in the 70s. Today the emphasis on gaining money and the machinations and business tactics that go into getting the dosh to go, take up not only the majority of the time making the ascent, but also the majority of the time (and lines of writing) in most mountain literature published these days. <br />Gone is the old style adventure: 1) adventure-for-the-sheer-fun-of-it, Joe Brown, Don Whillans; 2) adventure-of-the-tortured-soul, Eric Shipton, Joe Simpson; 3) adventure for Imperial gain, Capt Noel, Sven Hedin, or the early British Expeditions to Everest, (though to be fair, it is hard to ressurect this particular genre) and; even the 4) adventure-to-be-the-first-to-do-something, Bonnington and Hertzog, is relegated to second place -- now adventure takes second place to how much money and designer deals for broadcast rights and publisher exclusives can be done before, during and after the point when all the adventure takes place. <br />As such this book is very symptomatic of this new genre. There is all sorts of vignettes of the evil BBC and it reps and the business concerns of all the others who made crucial decisions tying their business fates to this expedition --- too much of this and too little detail both of the original British Expeditions the search expedition this books puports to write about. There is also precious little route description, how the route was put up and the actual \\"thrill\\" of the hunt to find Mallory. Fully one-third of the book deals with these machinations.<br />Even the people that the authors palpably do not like get off lightly. All of the people they like are usually gifted with some god-like aspect of physical prowess --- eg. barrel-chested, large arms etc. For those who have read Chris Bonnington's books on any of his expeditions, the slow burning personality problems that manifest themselves on so many of these expeditions are conspicuous by their absence in this book.  <br />In sum I liked the book. The good parts are two, and only two in my estimation: 1) the find of Mallory's body and 2) the ascent of the last ridge by the search party members. It is no coincidence that these two subjects are raw adventure and have nothing to do with gaining money or searching to personally skewer someone's personality. <br />I am glad I read it. But as an inspiration for further reading in the contemporary mountaineering genre, this book is symptomatic of how far the adventure genre has fallen, particularly in the past 10 yrs or so. Maybe you will like it. Maybe you will not. I am the kind of person who trekked the subsidiary valleys around Mt. Everest, but I would not go to Everest base camp --too many people, too much garbage and too many people following the populistic mantra of what passes for adventure writing these days... like the valleys around Everest these days, this genre has been tamed, beaten into submission, and transformed into a pablum for mass consumption. Better to settle down and re-read the Hertzog or Bonnington Classics.	2004-02-16
US	49580074	R3OMZ117AVFJ2Y	0142003786	630469625	Samurai William: The Englishman Who Opened Japan	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Rather Three-and-a-half Stars	The writing is pretty good and the text of this book is good for anyone with absolutely no understanding of Japan and the early exploration of the North Pacific. It does paint a rather broad canvas. This is selective and course history -- the bits have been ripped out and pieced together to paint a rather gory and exciting tale. The book really holds your attention and it a rather quick and surprisingly light read --- in that sense it is also a good introduction to the early contact with Japan. <br />If you like well written, light history, this will keep you turning the pages. If you are interested in using it as a starting point to dropping off in deeper reaches of exploration. <br />I enjoyed it. I am not sure it is good history however. But if you read enough history, then this is not a problem.	2004-02-05
US	49580074	R3F6ARRVRR9RVN	1556521103	598883383	The Death Ship	Books	3	8	15	N	Y	Style Too Thin and Fantastic	The mysterious B. Traven, may have been the son of the Kaiser Wilhelm, and he is quite a writer of interesting repute. Being a fan of the movie &quot;The Treasure of the Sierra Madre&quot; and the off-beat style of the movie, I thought that this novel would give me a realistic grit-eyed view of the labouring class in the 20s and 30s. What I got was a modern day Candide!<br />Now I love Voltaire as well, but the style is just not my cup of tea for a modern novel perporting to show you the real side of the industrial working class: although the death ship is a real rust bucket and a voyage of the damned, it is written in terms at time fantastic and at times deadpan comical Kafka-esque. The style does not work for me... maybe that is just me. If you are looking for grit and realism then this book clearly does not offer it. Like Candide the hero is washed from country to country and scenario to scenario with almost hilarious regularity. Although there is no sop to Dr. Pangloss, our hero seems to be both equal parts tragic victim and survivor... no matter what...<br />I was really kind of put off by Traven and you know about the old story of once bitten....	2003-12-08
US	49580074	R2RI8EH7L4YA5K	0140296476	263289727	Zero: The Biography of a Dangerous Idea	Books	4	1	2	N	N	From Simplicity to Ultimate Complexity	I remember wondering about Xeno's paradox. Although the answer to why a man running against a turtle with a head start was intuitively reasonable to grasp and answer, one hesitates to articulate an answer effectively. The reason is that one has to accept the dictates of the thought experiment about the necessity of infinitely splitting the distance between the man and the tortiose --- and therefore the apparent certitude that the man can never catch up with the turtle.<br />The reason is simple. Greeks rejected the entire notion of a zero. If you have no limit on a zero then you cannot delimit the thought experiment. This lack of zero, and, in the case of the Greeks, the absolute rejection of zero is the source of many stories. <br />Seife starts with a historical view and the idea of zero. Where it came from, from its place as a place marker in counters (not really a zero as we understand it) to its use to signify nothing by the Indians (the first real inventors of the modern notion of zero) to the development of the Calculus by Leibnitz and Newton (and Newton's rejection of the zero -- although his notation included all the zeros, making it impossible to read for most modern mathemeticians). <br />Latterly Seife relates the linkage between Infinity and Zero and explores the notion of black holes... It is really a nice mathematical smorgasbord. <br />There are only a few equations and proofs in this book and is readily understandable for those with a high-school education. A good read.	2003-12-04
US	49580074	R3IOWKG3Y382GU	0522850138	167570484	Ned Kelly: New Illustrated edition	Books	2	7	8	N	N	NOT THE BEST HISTORY	I picked this one up in Sydney and I was looking forward to ripping through it in a good interpretive read on Australia's most famous bad man. I found the style to be more than a little put-offish.... Moloney's quest he says, is to rescue Ned in the consciousness of Australia. <br />At least he is honest in his predjudice. Although there are many ways of re-evaluating Ned and his place in Australian history, Molony is really using myth to reinvent both Ned AND Australia. Ned becomes the repository of every Australian virtue and historical vissitude. At times the prose style waxes into a sort of critical literary interpretation of Ned. It is disconcerting and, for an avid reader of history, smacks of myth-making and grandiose visions. All that, I think, actually undermines Ned and his place in history; by asserting that he is a sort of time-independent Oz Zeitgeist we learn little of the real Ned and nothing real of Australian history.  <br />Such historical writing is not just subserviant to historical distortion, it also makes for not such a wonderful read....<br />For real Ned Kelly buffs this book is de rigour. But for those looking to get a better look at the real man and the cultural, historical themes that surround his life, I do not recommend this book. Almost any other title on Ned would be better to read.	2003-11-20
US	49580074	R22HT0I4V4NCEK	068482471X	877375023	DARWIN'S DANGEROUS IDEA: EVOLUTION AND THE MEANINGS OF LIFE	Books	4	10	13	N	Y	IT ALL HAPPENED NATURALLY!	There is a lot here, one could sort of call the book the Goedel, Escher, Bach of Evolution and that may be a good way to view it. Since Dennet is by academic discipline a philosopher his arguments are framed in logical ideas that run very smoothly together. <br />Two of the themes in this book is that natural selection by itself, contrary to some critiques by other scientists (real scientists, not creationists) can explain the complete evolution of life on earth. That no magical interludes or unknowns --- Dennet calls them \\"skyhooks\\" --- need to be entertained, evolution can do it all.... (this contrasts with Gould's hopeful monster theories, and the idea of singular mutation yeilding new species development in a very short period of time). <br />The other theme is the idea that natural selection is a design oriented process (not done with any end in mind, but designed completely by natural selection). Nature, by forced moves, endless review and learning processes is able to bridge large spans of time with evolution advancing and rejecting at the same time. He explains this particularly well in the his chapter on the elementary clay particles). <br />I found the beginning and the end of the book the most interesting. The first chapter is a review of the philosophical history of goal-oriented design (teleos) and the notion of Locke and Hume of the supposed necessity of God in design. It sets up the entire book. <br />The ending of the books deals with language and moral development. Dennet sees evolution essentially giving us the cranial mass to produce culture, through memetic evolution, which in turn, now dominates and constrains and determines human behaviour and genetic development (how much is a central question of evolution today) --- a squaring of the selfish gene argument if you will -- memetic evolution allow one to escape (to some degree) the constraints of \\"selfish gene\\" behaviour. As such the argument of Sociobiology also enters the fray. Therefore morality is not necessarily dependent upon culture, but culture can shape our morality away from sociobiological explanations for human behaviour. But, argues Dennet, that is no refutation of natural selection. <br />I enjoyed the book a lot. The only really boring chapters were two in the middle of the book on AI. But then again that is me, I still feel that I should re-read them. I still feel that this was one of the more profound books I have ever read on Evolution.	2003-11-13
US	49580074	R1NIYKZQA6I5UB	0304354570	11920435	Cassell Military Classics: Burma Victory: Imphal and Kohima March 1944 to May 1945	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Short, Concise Introduction	This book performs a very good role in describing the intracacies of largest allied land campaign against Imperial Japan. One that lasted 4 years and was the only land campaign to destroy a significant chunk of the Japanese land forces outside of China (the American Island Hopping Campaign, though brilliant, did not significantly deplete the fighting forces of Japan by land battle).<br />This campaign has been called the forgotten campaign. One wonders why is was forgotten? Especially while looking at the resources allocated for the eventual triumph of British Arms in Burma. Part of the reason, is because it was a confusing battle with disparate elements fighting inside a confused political situation. The polical objectives of the British (liberation of Burma, a former colony) did not jive with those of the Americans (supportin Chaing Kai Shek's corrupt regime in China) who were eventually underwriting the campaign in many important elements (but not however with many bodies on the ground). Eventually the British and the Americans reached a deal which delivered a compromise that ensured that the British and Indian sufferred for the sins of the politicians. <br />These political machinations and the very difficult personality of US General Stillwell are covered to a degree, but the grand strategic situation is lacking. <br />Also the twin counterpoint battles of Imphal and Kohima comprised of long marches through dense jungles by both sides, usually setting up roadblocks and then pressing for the kill inside the cut off boxes. These were large and permeable boxes with shifting pressure points. The descriptions, for those that are using this book as an introduction to the battle are hard at times to understand (though the book does, just barely, have enough maps). <br />The overview Kohima is well described and this should be a fine intro to those who are not already familiar with that pivotal battle (A better read is \\"Not Ordinary Men\\"). There is of course the old problem of lack of Japanese sources which also makes black holes appear in Japanese armies acts and intentions. But given the slender volume Rooney does more than should be required in this area and as historian who (presumably) does not read Japanese, the outcome of his citing previous Japanese sources is laudable.  <br />Of particular note is the rather central place that the Chindits take in Rooney's work. Rooney is an unabashed supporter of Wingate and imputes (in my opinion) undue significance to both the vision and implementation of the Orde Wingate Chindit Strategy. Moreover this book also is notable in that it is one of the few volumes that take General Slim to task in his evaluation and treatment of Wingate. Slim is described as \\"disingenuous\\" and \\"less-than kind\\" in his rememberances of Wingate. Although Rooney offers example and contrasting text, his conclusions are conjecture. It is surprising that anyone as familair with the campaign as Rooney undoubtedly is, comes down so unquestionably on the side of someone with obvious personality problems and a coloured history of treatment of his men (though his personal courage is never in doubt). <br />The problems of the book described above, still make \\"Burma: The Longest War\\" the definitive study. But that is one long book. This slender volume will suffice as an introduction.	2003-09-16
US	49580074	R19UQIUSRGXBJ	1585742155	756546648	The Battle of Okinawa: The Blood and the Bomb	Books	4	27	30	N	N	GOOD SOCIAL NARRATIVE -- NOT MILITARY HISTORY	It should be stated that this is really only tangentally a book of military history. There is no lead in or large diagrams noting units on the move, involved and their progression from beach-head to final battle. There is however a lot of very good first person accounts from soldiers from both sides and the civilians involved. <br />The whole point is to show how the horror of island hopping campaign that reached its bloody climax on a very large island with a very large civilian population. Although the charnel house of Burma, Tarawa, Peleliu, Saipan, the Philippines and other place names of the East Asian War were truly very much encounters largely between two brutal armies. In Okinawa we get this gigantic clash redux with civilians at the centre. <br />What Feifer does is describe this massive clash of arms on human beings, how humans behave in war and how civilians get the short end of the stick. <br />But let me be clear here: I have read a lot of Pacific War history and regularly join in the applause of the fighting prowess of the US Marines -- I have seen the battlefields at Okinawa, Peleliu, Saipan, Truk and many other sites of WWII horror. Feifer is honest in his discription of the horrors perpetrated by both sides. But he honestly points out in his introduction that the actions of the US pales in comparison with the cruelty of the Japanese. He spends most of his time on these attrocities and a VERY limited amount of time on those that Americans, through design or accident, perpetrated on Japanese POWs or Okinawan civilians (contrary to the other previous reviewer it is not at all a \\"rant\\" -- he should read the introduction again!). It is a fair and documented representation of what happenned and it is a sobering reminder of the responsibilities of democratic countries and their necessity to fight war always in a just manner and never to sink to the level of the opposition. <br />That is the one lesson of this book. The other one is that this is an excellent book for all nations to understand what happens in modern war when civilians get caught in the middle. It is a great book for those who seek a greater understanding of when the necessities of war cross over the elemental rights of civilians. It reminds us also of our humanity ---from the acts of kindness by a grisled Marine giving water and food to a child or an old woman, to the horror of an irrate Japanese commander willing to sacrifice people to a vain endevour and psychotic tribute to an obscurantist Japanese militaristic code. <br />I recommended it to my niece and young nephew. They are unlikely to read military history. But they will be much wisened by this book. As such who cares whether they know a toss about the 1st or the 5th Marines. What this book teaches them about humanity is much more than lines on a map and the order of battle.	2003-09-09
US	49580074	R2H8J7F61PV7LE	1854091964	699885874	The Colonial Wars Source Book	Books	5	11	11	N	N	SOLID IMPERIAL REVIEW	This is an impressive source of much of the very many little wars that surrounded the British Empire at the end of the 19th Century and the beginning of the 20th. <br />It has an impressive Geographical Listing of conflicts and, relatively speaking for a sourcebook, a detailed history of the genesis of the conflict, political developments, the course of the wars and the ultimate outcome. Some like the Boer War, are pretty well known. Others, like the Candy Expidition in Ceylon and the Northwest Rebellion on Canada are less known.  <br />There is also a good description of the various incarnations of the British and Imperial Armies (Indian, Australian, Canadian etc.) in each segment. It even goes down into the detail of the colonial regiments in obscure local areas of the British Empire, such as Fiji and Ceylon. The outline of the original home county regiments of the British Army is also a good quick reference (for when you are reading Hopkirk and you need to reference to see who exactly were the 44th Regiment of Foot).<br />The weapons section on colonial armies is not that exhaustive but it does have good references for those that want to know basic terms for weapons such as a &quot;screw gun&quot; and the what weapons were vouge at what time. Opposing Armies such as the Zulus, Pathans, Afghans, and Boers get their pride of place as well. <br />The glossary is good with a plethora of Indian terms and native Indian terms that were subsumed into the vernacular of the Imperial Soldier. <br />The one area that it suffers is the biographical section where the list of personalities is a little limited. Most of the people left out will be described and mentioned in many of the imperial conflict chapters but it would be better to have for example, more Napiers and Roberts in pantheon of Imperial Heroes and rougues. <br />It is quite and accomplishment as the efforts of one person. Although I can think of ways it could be bettered, I do not know of any other effort available out there today on the subject.	2003-09-09
US	49580074	R1GD3QNNUO3U08	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	2	12	21	N	Y	Shock Troops, Schmock Troops! Extremely Dishonest	(UPDATE OF PREVIOUS REVIEW)    I enjoyed this book at the beginning and the end when he postulates a vaugue and interesting idea.... but from the start the really annoying thing (and its gets more and more annoying the further you read) is his endless repetition of his thesis:     THESIS: The Western Tradition in war is the product of the Greek Polis and its continuance is manifested in the same ways as it essentially was during the good ol' days of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and whoever else they could fit around the table at the \\"Symposium\\": free citizen soldiers with certain rights to property, life, the ability to elect civic officials, and a scientific method of inquiry, all these qualities make better soldiers. Moreover they yeild a method of battle seeking to conclusively close with the enemy and defeat him in \\"shock battle\\" (I do not know how many times he uses that term).     Hansen offers cases studies in battles, but he draws them out WAY TOO MUCH.....! Therefore his best writing is at the beginning, when he introduces his ideas, and at the end, when he is forced to reach conclusions --- in both areas we are presented a lot of new, and therefore non-repetative, information.     Some concerns with this book are:    1) Extremely reductionist. Every battle cited is further proof of his thesis. Even Cannae, where an army not of the western tradition the Carthaginians (an extremely contentious statement since Carthage was founded by Phoncians who were at least culturally like the Greeks, but hey, who am I to argue with a classics scholar), defeated the Romans who were the very apotheosis of the western tradition.     Hansen has an answer however: the very fact they lost the battle was indicative that Romans were able to absorb enormous losses and then raise armies of free citizen soldiers again whilst those of Carthage were doomed to ultimately loose the war because they were ultimately an authoritarian state. Citizen soldier states win even when hey lose! The exception proves the rule as it were.... This is a supremely reductionist argument and one surprising coming from a teacher of the Classics. Every battle he picked (indeed, any battle he could pick) would serve as proof of his central thesis. Such is the essence of poor history and even poorer intellectual honesty...    2) War And the Liberal Tradition: Hansen rightly asks the question of what would happen if two nations of the western, classical tradition fight. Some notion is seen in the modern battles of the Somme, Passchendale, and Stalingrad. Hansen also reafirms the liberal assertion that democracies do not fight, but he also admits that there is little room for error in the future if they even do... But he does not go into the implications of this theory. There are only about 4-5 pages in the entire tome that deal with this subject.    3) Case Studies: His chapters on Salamis, Rourke's Drift & Midway are the best and although cliche at times, are supremely interesting and offer interesting perspectives on the nature of all combatants (I really liked his section on Midway and although I have read a lot on this battle, I found he had a lot new to say that was interpretive).     His worst chapter is the one on Tet, which seems almost tacked on the end of the book (he should lose it) and offers nothing new accept the currently \\"conservative\\" fashionable reinterpretation that America really did win this war. There is no mention about the fact that, agree or not, this was a popular war of liberation (waged immorally by both the North and the US); the utter mendacity of US Generals and soldiers in the field and; no notion that just and moral regimes supported by the people could and should really support and fight for themselves.    4) Morality: One point that Hansen states is that the western way of warfare, although more efficient, is no more moral than any other and much more bloody because it seeks decisive \\"shock battle\\" with the enemy. His examples seem to bear out his assertion about the amorality of the western military tradition. However with a system of battle that is so destructive it is incumbent on western morality (itself a product of the Greek tradition) to explain how morality in war is linked, how it can be linked, and how it SHOULD be linked. Moreover if the Greek Classical tradition produced both western morality and the western way of warfare, how are the two necessarily mutually exclusive as Hansen would have us believe.     I think that any discussion of western morality may muddy the water and would have lead to a much more complicated book, though perhaps one less repetative and much more interesting.     His ideas are merely interesting. There are enough holes (cited above) in his thesis to fire an 18 inch round from the Yamato through. And in this sense the value of his ideas are really to be found in the heuristics of such a study, to say that there is \\"truth\\" here is to impute far too much: the case studies range from Very Good (Salamis) to Extremely Bad (Tet) and just plain bad (Cannea and Lepanto).     Even though I disagree with a lot of what Hansen says, I still would say that he has established a worthy subject with a lot of hard questions that need answers. As a heuristic approach, his book is a tour-de-force.... Now if he could only get a better editor for the next book, he will find a willing punter in me, one willing to plunk the US $ 35 ...down on his next work.....   As long as Hansen can promise me that I do not have to read the word \\"shock battle\\" 10 times on the same page	2003-09-09
US	49580074	R2RHCAFFGDQB9S	0312989776	856139876	The Bureau: The Secret History of the FBI	Books	3	18	20	N	N	GOOD JOURNALISTIC PULP HISTORY	Kessler is a journalist and his writing reflects this.... \\"just like one long newspaper article\\" as someone described it. It is not an official history of the FBI though it is up to you to decide whether Kessler tries to be a historian or not in this book. Kessler had a lot of first hand contact with FBI personalities. Hard to rival his research, and he is most interesting when he weaves these people into the narrative. <br />He has his pantheon of heros and ghouls. Freeh and Sessions are subject to quite a thrashing for impugning the integrity of the organisation. Mueller is his man of the hour -- though how long that will last is anyone's guess. <br />The reading is fast and furious covering the almost 100 yrs of the organisation. There are Nazi spies in the US, the Rosenbergs, Hoover's crossdressing (he dismisses it), Watergate and the Valachi Papers of the Mafia. If you do not know much about these subjects you will be little better informed after reading Kessler -- he blitzes through these subjects with about a page on the Rosenbergs. He is better on later events, but once again, you will find little new on Al-Quaeda here and Sept 11th. His main strength is when he describes the problems of the internal organisation past and present. Hoover for example is assailed for abusing the organisation to perpetuate his rule, but is also praises him for building a strong professional organisation. <br />The text is badly organised and themes need to be worked more. The book tries to be all things to all people about the FBI. It was obviously hurriedly written --- typos are rife and he repeats himself more than he should. <br />That said, I still enjoyed it as my light read for the month. It flows well and does not demand too much attention, you can breeze through it easily. Do not expect too much.	2003-08-28
US	49580074	R2E4GMUH6KX7J2	1841765120	243383275	Peleliu 1944: The Forgotten Corner of Hell (Campaign)	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Bloody Forgotten Battle	A nice very easy access to this very bloody and forgotten battle with good maps. There is a very good section on how the battle figured in the overall strategic plans. Peleliu was a battle that need never have been fought. Monday morning quarterbacking is easy, but there are some real glaring inconsistencies that someone should have taken the blame for at the time. Not much of this is gone into with this slender volume, but it a wonderful accompaniment to a other more details volumes.   If aerial recce's were done of Peleliu they would have instantly reccognised the central ridge of about 200 metres in height poking out of the jungle/ Apparently aerial recce's never saw this feature according to the text. Bleeding the Marines in this battle gained the Americans relatively little and the great irony is the battle was overshadowed and then pushed off the front pages of newspapers when the landings on Leyte took place.   Better to have taken Anguar established their base there and left the rest of the Palaus alone. It would have worked because that is in fact what more or less happened: the landings at Peleliu and Anguar  left the main island and numerous lesser islands occupied but neutralised. Why not merely neutralise and not land on Peleliu as well. That is the central question that will remain unanswered. This Osprey Edition does a good job of the overview of the battle and the hell that both sides faced in this &#34;forgotten battle.&#34;Text is good but suffers from inaccurate rendering of Japanese names into Roman Script (eg. Taksgo is not a Japanese name should be &#34;Takasago&#34;). As do so many books on the Pacific war. The easy Japanese phonetic alphabet make such mistakes inexcusable.	2003-07-16
US	49580074	RJFS0M83ENOYO	0440131103	841614490	Goodbye Darkness: A Memoir of the Pacific War	Books	5	222	235	N	N	Poetic and Haunting	If one could read two accounts of the Pacific War written from the perspective of Americans this book and Sledges \\"With the Old Breed at Peleliu and Okinawa\\" would be the best that one can get. There are a lot of very good narrative history books on all aspects of the Pacific War, but the poet-gone-to-war genre is something that really the British usually do much better than the Americans. That is why when I stumbled upon Manchester's memoirs I was immediately sucked into the guts of wartime experience.<br />Manchester writes with passion borne from desperation and experience of long times in the firing line. He waxes from the lyrical experiences of a fireside chat on the battle-line with a student of philosophy (himself?) regalling the troops with an exposition on the nature of time. One is left with the images of hard worn veterans from small American towns, experiencing the wonder of ideas for the first time on the eve of battle. Their far off, empty stares as the philosopher marine finishes his exposition in sheer silence is something that one can almost feel. That very same night they cut up a large Banzai charge on Guam --- one can cut the atmosphere of the book with a knife. <br />Manchester can then go on an describe his visceral uncomfortable feelings of being close to the Japanese today. Their inability to admit to former attrocities is something that Manchester admits, planted the seed of dislike deeply inside him. Try as he might he cannot shake it and we are at least amazed with his honesty. This contrasts with the cerebral, fair-minded  Manchester we all know from his biographies. <br />I have read more than 200 narrative histories and memoirs of the Pacific War, British, American, Japanese, Indian and Chinese, Australian, Canadian ...  and this is one of the best. Like all good books, it stays with you for a long time....	2003-07-14
US	49580074	R15K9E7HUBMLPC	0141391332	430341469	The Fall of Singapore (Penguin Classic Military History)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Good General Overview	This book is a penguin reprint of a 60s publication. For someone looking for a general overview of the campaign, there is a lot here. The detail is most rich in this overview in the initial fighting in the North, Kota Bahru and the probe into Thailand to stop the Japanese. The way that Britain and the Commonwealth squandered their forces in defence of the penninsula makes for sordid reading of a campaign that never should have gone the way it did. <br />The initial invasion of the Island of Singapore is well dscribed but there are far too many questions not answered and not too many raised in the first place. The initial fighting on the island and the confused situation is not clearly outlined. It remained far from clear why the initial Japanese landing was so slowly responded to, why reserves were not commited quickly, and why vital supplies especially tanks and modern fighter aircraft were not allocated. <br />Exciting but not the definitive account of the campaign but a good place to start.	2003-05-20
US	49580074	RA34RUAG0NDYU	0425180840	905195727	The Boxer Rebellion: The Dramatic Story of China's War on Foreigners that Shook the World in the Summer of 1900	Books	4	5	6	N	N	A Good Introduction to the Boxer Rebellion	Preston does a very good job in putting together a highly readable imperial account of the seige at Beijing. <br />Of particular note is her description of the initial imperial dispositions of the Great Powers in Peking, and the battles that took place not only in the capital but also on the river and rail approaches to the city. The seige was not just a race to save foreigners in Beijing, but also a race to save China from completely disembowling itself in civil war. <br />Or course the actions, overreactions and the rapacious behaviour of the foreign relief forces is also well chronicled. Of particular note is the sacking of the Summer Palace. It is also interesting to see that the British viewed the Japanese as the most civilised of their relief allies and the French and Russians little more than barbarians. <br />I do not think that this is best account of the Boxer rebellion and it isn't the most fast paced. I think that the accounts in Chris Hibbert's \\"The Dragon Wakes\\" to be an altogether more fast-paced study of the war. <br />There are few Chinese sources as well, but then this is meant to be a narrative history, and not a full-blown scholarly enterprise. <br />A good imperial read.	2003-05-13
US	49580074	R361MNMYGFJH83	1403903166	488135184	A History of Hungary: Millennium in Central Europe	Books	3	24	25	N	Y	GOOD HISTORY, DRY READING	This is one of the most dry books that I have read in a long time ---and do not underestimate my ability to put up with boring prose -- I can go against the best of them.<br />Having said that I would not want to discourage people from reading this book. It is an academic history and tries to cut some new ground throughout. Of particular note in the introduction is the shifting nature of what really constitutes Hungary since its \\"essnece\\" unlike Britain, for example, seems to change over time and be both geographical and historically dependent. From fierce Magyar horsemen, to guardians of the cross against the muslim infidel to the Austro-Hungarian Empire and the present day Hungary divorced from its \\"traditional heartland of Transylvania,\\"  Hungary had always had a shifting disposition.<br />I did not the particular glossing over of the medieval period as I bought the book to learn more about this time. The author is really much better in his overview of more recent times and always keeps an cold analytical ear to the ground and informs you about the details of historical constants.<br />As the ultimate historical reference work on Hungary, this book will adorn my shelf, but if one is looking for a more flowing and exciting narrative, one would be better off with reading Paul Lendvai, \\"Hungary -- A 1000 Yrs of Victory in Defeat.\\"	2003-05-13
US	49580074	R3BIDS8JAS8Z3N	1568361270	697623546	Like Hidden Fire: The Plot to Bring Down the British Empire	Books	5	28	32	N	Y	BLOODY GOOD -- NOT HIS BEST -- BUT BLOODY GOOD	If you are a Hopkirk addict like me, you will breeze through another one of his exciting narratives of Central Asian History and love every minute of it. Fire up the kettle, throw on your fez and curl up in your favourite reading chair as Hopkirk takes you on a true-life tale of derring do against German and Communist Agents in central Asia in World War I. <br />Russia is the ally and the German is the new encroacher on British Empire and the Imperial Indian Raj. Hopkirk of course picks his cast with a loving hand and we have the usual sort of British imperial heroes, speaking the local language, gaining favour from locals with their fair and firm hand, and doling out the intrigue in dollops. <br />But... Hopkirk give us detial of the German Spies in this area as well. Some like Niedermeyer, the German Lawrence and his associate Hentig on their overland journey to Kabul to try to convince the Emir to throw in his lot with the Turkish and Germans and attack British India. The details of his adventures in the Persian deserts and his sojourn in Kabul make great, fast reading. The heebie-jeebies that his action caused the British and their reaction to it are also adventure writ large. <br />Hopkirk describes the German/ Turkish attempt to bring down the British Empire with a holy war orchestrated by themselves. It also shows what brittle fibre holy war is made from. In the end the respective ethnic groups in the muslim world acted in their own self interests -- the Persians had no love for a Turkish Empire, the Emir of Afghanistan kept checking which way the wind blew before deciding to remain loyal to Britain. And the Arabs decided that an Englishman (TE Lawrence) held the Key to independence, not their fellow muslims in Constantinople. <br />Once the mess of the Arab Revolt gutted Turkish Power the British find themselves out of the frying pan and into the fire and intervene in the Caucasus' to try to keep Russia in the war. <br />The British effort here and the emmiment Victorian personalities are well described and the perfidious Red Reaction and myth-making also exploded by Hopkirk. <br />In final analysis Hopkirk writes books alive with adventure. I think that Hopkirk had a major problem in delimiting the book. That is a hard thing to do in a work of this kind. Some things such as the British under seige at Al Kut and its eventual fall are directly related to the tales of our heroes on the ground the political outcome later described. Some other details might have made a shorter book (ie, the Zimmerman Telegram recounting) but they are still interesting and indirectly related to the tale Hopkirk is telling. <br />If you have the ability to honestly judge it then there are a few flaws that should be noted, but they do not at all detract from the flow of the read or the historical smorgasbord laid out before you. <br />In final analysis this book encorporates the widest canvas that Hopkirk has used to date, the World War. That necessitates more detail on distant, but related elements. These may not be as well organised as they could be, but, because Hopkirk writes them, are always highly interesting. <br />A good tea-time book. Something that one looks forward to....	2003-05-13
US	49580074	R345DQ3CQXIKH5	1570541175	944659909	The Most Incredible, Outrageous, Packed-to-the-Gills, Bulging-at-the-Seams Sticker Book You've ever Seen (Klutz)	Books	4	47	53	N	Y	GOOD STICKER BOOK	What is it with kids and stickers? It appears to be the most purposeless activity ever devised! --- pull a sticker off and put it ... well ... anywhere! <br />But be that as it may, you had better make sure you have lots on hand because your kids will want to have them. I bought this for my two-year-old daughter. She was little too young to appreciate the intricacies of the book (you can put all sorts of exagerated features on the heads of the Royal Family --- outrageous man!), and ended up putting stickers all over the place. <br />But that kept her attention for awhile and allowed us to keep her enthused for a six-hour-long flight. So I think that the book can be most widely utilised by kids 3-6, but there is still stuff there for your two year old. <br />A hearty reccomendation. And the book ain't all that big so do not be daunted by size.	2003-05-13
US	49580074	R2SNYQHDO1HV0	0674854292	116036272	Summer for the Gods: The Scopes Trial and America's Continuing Debate over Science and Religion	Books	4	10	14	N	Y	Making Monkeys Out of Americans	This the ultimate book on the Scopes trail and its depressing impact upon the US. If you are expecting a straight read about the forces of repression and ignorance battling the forces of science, reason, and tolerance you will be sadly disappointed. The Scopes trail had nothing to do with basic biology. It was a battle of lawyers, made for and persued by them for their own, at times rather personal motives. <br />This books chronicles the advent of trial in the Chemists Shop in Dayton Tenessee when a few leading citizens --- neither clever or passionate Darwinians, nor particularly blathering, foaming at the mouth fundamentalists --- unabashed opportunists who wanted to put an declining town on the map with the trial of the century. Scopes over sodas with both sides decides that he will &quot;have a go&quot; at making it a test case as to whether evolution can be taught in Tennessee -- so much for the repression.<br />From these humble beginnings starts a third rate farce with everyone wanting to get in on the act. Some were legitimate entities, such as the ACLU lawyers -- very dedicated and committed people -- perhaps the true heros of this saga. But others such as Darrow and Bryan, although obviously acting from deeply held emotions offered no basis to defend their beliefs. Darrow offerred little evidence of what we would know as natural selection, and Bryan could not defend his belief in a Biblical interpretation of the creation ofthe earth as given in Genesis.<br />The real argument became a legal one with Bryan defending the rights of the majority to teach whatever taxpayers thought they wanted to teach (whether it was correct or not!), majoritism, and Darrow defending the right of people to teach scientific based education, because it was unreasonable to teach majority held opinion if it was at odds with elementary understandings of Science. And this is where the debaters dug in their heels. <br />Bryan, nor anyone else, could prove that Genesis was true. Darrow could prove evolution, but that did not make him correct if the majority of people, choosing ignorance over fact, chose not to believe it. <br />The book does a good job at describing the minutea of the defence and cross-exacmination, the legal cases of both sides, and the trail itself. It also does a good job in describing the pre and post Scopes legal challenges launched by both causes in America. <br />Although the creationists were plain wrong, this is not a simple story of the light of science versus a bunch of southern rednecks. There are a lot of interesting vignettes: although Bryan did defend his idea of bible creationism, he was also worried about the evolving &quot;science&quot; of Eugenics and he rightly forsaw the potential to use evolution to relegate people into different classes as result of &quot;proper&quot; and &quot;improper&quot; breeding; some Southern Black churches also defended the prosecution on similar grounds. This was just the beginning of the hayday of Eugenics and Naziism, where transmogrified understandings of Evolution underwrote some horrible ideologies.<br />This book took the Pulitzer in History. It is not that good in my estimation. Fair and well researched, yes, but at times the narrative drags as Larson gets bogged down in legal historical details (such as the chapter called &quot;Jockeying for Position&quot;). Larson is a lawyer and confines himself to law and history. There is no review of natural selection as it was then interpreted, and, as Larson points out, Darrow had only a vague notion of its intrisic reasonableness. Darrow actually cited and conducted the trail on a largely (mistaken) notion of Lamarkian evolution --- a common enough mistake -- still.  <br />This is a book that I enjoyed, but it didn't set my heart racing. It offers an depressing read on the quintessentially American experience: how a society relatively free, a bastion of most scientific enlightenment and knowledge can allow such ignorance of science to the degree that people actually believe in a literal interpretation of Biblical allegory in the 20th and the 21st Century....and how Americans can allow both to be exploited for political grandstanding.	2003-05-07
US	49580074	R2E5JSSKQR6H0Y	0375705244	406271874	Founding Brothers: The Revolutionary Generation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Good Primer on the Revolution Generation	You should be able to tell how good a book is by how faithful it is to the task it sets up in the preface. In this case Ellis was spurred to write this book while reading (of all things) \\"Emminent Victorians,\\" by Lytton Strachey. He was motivated by Strachey's ability to mix multiple personalities in selected themes and do it in a way that allowed the reader to get an glimpse on what makes the people tick and, most importantly, to do so without being repetitious within 250 pages.<br />Here one learns a good cross section of the thoughts, ideas and group dynamics of the American Revolution's Founding Brothers. Ellis is best in teasing out the nuances in vital philosophical differences between the major figues and seeing how they coalesced about certain issues; from the ethereal, libertarian and high-minded ideas of Jefferson and Madison (Madison being the more earth bound of the two) to the very concrete, reality based pragmatism of Hamilton and Washington. The interactions were the foundations of fast friendships, gentle debate, ideological controversy and, at least in one case, the source of one duel leading to the death of Hamilton.<br />For those that are thoughtful one can see the ideological currents of America being set early. The reason-based ideas of Jefferson and the idea of uncompromising Liberty are here writ large; they appear as they are, idealistic and, at time anarchistic and not based upon life expereince (Jefferson still defended the French Revolution during the Terror, using some of the best casuistic arguments that defenders of Stalin would well recognise). Hamilton on the other side realised that strong central govt. was the sin qua non of any nation. He emerges as the central hero, or villian during the arguments of the Assumption Act. A hero because he realised a country was only as strong as its currency. A villain because he was associated with NY power brokers and British Merchant Lenders.<br />Above it all remains Washington. Flawed and at times not appearing too intelligent or gainly, but the man imposed practical reason and logic, based upon life experiences upon government. He had seen that unfettered freedom almost lost the revolution. The proper measure of liberty and central control was necessary for the foundation of the state. And so he remains a hero in this book, but not the hero of the revolution, a hero because of the words of warning in his farewell address.<br />There is also an overview on the section of Slavery. The topic was debated and then shelved. All parties realise that the cancer of Slavery could consume the nation, but the idea was that the topic would be considered later when the Union could endure the debate. We know with hindsight that such thoughts were naive in the extreme. At the time however the moderating influence of some of the Founding Fathers of the US merely prolonged the inevitable. But they could not have known at the time. Ellis notes and describes all of debates of the time for and against slavery and notes that they exactly paralled those of the 1850s.<br />Ellis writes extremely well. He has a knack for describing the thought processes of complex people long dead. At the end of 250 pages you get a feeling that you have understood not only something about these men and their times, but also something about the thoughts shaping the current America and its travaills.<br />It is not an \\"exciting\\" read per se, but it certainly holds one's attention.<br />A good read.at times not appearing too intelligent or gainly, but the man imposed practical reason and logic, based upon life experiences upon government. He had seen that unfettered freedom almost lost the revolution. The proper measure of liberty and central control was necessary for the foundation of the state. And so he remains a hero in this book, but not the hero of the revolution, a hero because of the words of warning in his farewell address.<br />There is also an overview on the section of Slavery. The topic was debated and then shelved. All parties realise that the cancer of Slavery could consume the nation, but the idea was that the topic would be considered later when the Union could endure the debate. We know with hindsight that such thoughts were naive in the extreme. At the time however the moderating influence of some of the Founding Fathers of the US merely prolonged the inevitable. But they could not have known at the time. Ellis notes and describes all of debates of the time for and against slavery and notes that they exactly paralled those of the 1850s. <br />Ellis writes extremely well. He has a knack for describing the thought processes of complex people long dead. At the end of 250 pages you get a feeling that you have understood not only something about these men and their times, but also something about the thoughts shaping the current America and its travaills. <br />It is not an \\"exciting\\" read per se, but it certainly holds one's attention. <br />A good read.	2003-04-24
US	49580074	R1BCGVR8IQLS4	1566633826	148129111	Life at the Bottom: The Worldview that Makes the Underclass	Books	4	18	49	N	Y	GREAT STORIES, NO ANSWERS	Ah yes.... Theodore Dalrymple... Well for those of us whose childhood was shaped by English relatives, Uncles, Parents, Grandparents, raised with pre-war, staid ethics, Dalrymple's bootstrap, let-me-sort-you-out young man, sort of philosophy will resonate well --- and be well understood. What it portends for actual understanding of the underclass mentality is quite another thing. <br />Dalrymple writes well. His annecdotes are equal parts funny and mortifying. Dalrymple also offers glimpses at a side of life that few of the Upper-class (whose prejudices this book apparently is geared towards) ever get to see. I can see how he has become the British doyen of what is now called \\"conservatism\\" in the US. <br />But for all the gems that pass as wisdom in this book there is precious little logic beyond the opinions expressed and even less attempt to justify the central thesis: that socially progessive people and intellectuals, in their attempts to tolerate everything, have wittingly or as dupes, contributed to the making of the underclass buy supplying it with ideas that justify the fact that they are not responsible for their own malaise. <br />Dalrymple offers no evidence beyond annecdote. The idea that one must take responsibility for one's thoughts and actions is nothing more than a truism. It is not something that has been proved by either the inductive or deductive study of Dalrymple. <br />Moreover it is not an idea that is exclusive to the underclass:<BR>we find business executives that blame the government, their sales force and even their secretaries for their downfall. We find the scions of the rich blaming government and trade unions for their inability to make money. Corporate malfeasence often finds everyone willing to point their finger at other people while not in the least taking account of their own actions -- this mentality from members who are not of the underclass. <br />Moreover reactionary thought often resorts to the reductionism of seeing the decaying hand of govt. as the ultimate agent of responsiblity for every misfortune known to mankind. One only needs to listen to Rush Limbaugh to realise that Clinton was responsible for everything from loose sexual mores to the war in Iraq. Vice is of course something that only a Democrat could be capable of....and graft only something that a Republican could dream of. <br />Also I find it interesting that Dalrymple would cite socially progressive people and \\"liberals\\" as responsible for the ideas that lead and justify the underclass' own misfortune; I think that with all of the Yobbos that Dalrymple has met he would have learned that when a yobbo says \\"I'm gonna bash your head in mate\\" that that person is not affirming a 20th Century version of contemporary feminism, or rational liberal inquiry. Such a statement has more in common with Fascism and the notion of the redeeming nature of violence than any neo-liberal ethic.<br />In final analysis Dalrymple suffers from the fact that although he TREATS the underclass he has never BEEN a member of the underclass. That doesn't make his stories less interesting. It just means that like our English Uncles and Grandfathers, Dalrymple is out of touch with the world and any philosophy that could better it beyond some ad-hoc bootstrap philosophy that passes as \\"wisdom.\\" It also underwrites the great lie perpetrated by the likes of George Will, Rush Limbaughs, Margaret Thatcher et al., --- all bootstrap philosophers raised with silverspoons who never had to leap across this divide, who are quick to judge and ascribe simple remedies based upon personal prejudice and ideological truths. <br />Dalrymple's book caters to this intellectual dishonesty and self-righteous blather that charasterises some of the world view of the upper-class; their flip side belief that they are responsible 100% for their success. <br />That should not stop anyone from actively reading and enjoying this book. I would rate it within the top 10 of the booksI have read this year. Like any good book you should be shaking and nodding your head in equal syncopation. But you would be sorely deluded, or maybe just feeding preconcieved notions if you think that you are getting any real insight into the explanation of the formation of the underclass.	2003-04-02
US	49580074	R2770CQKMI5HNO	081331951X	459752409	The Art of War (History and Warfare)	Books	5	30	35	N	N	Currently The Best Version Available	This is the best translation of Sun Tzu's work on the market. Sawyer is a deft scholar with the ability to approach the meaning most carefully in his text. Moreover the lenghty introduction to the text (three-quarters of the book) gives one a good description of the evolution of warfare in the the major dynasties of Classical China. Descriptions of everything from the development of the sword, chariot, and military organisation is included, all aspects of the the major military engagements described.<br />The text should therefore appeal to both those who wish to get a general outline of Chinese military history and the context that Sun Tzu (and other writers described in the book) defines his concepts of strategy.<br />This is a serious scholarship and there is numerous references to non-translated Chinese and Japanese first sources on the subject. Sawyer knows his stuff! There is also a full index with Chinese character translations of key concepts, events, people and places (since as any reader of Chinese script knows, there is no way the phonetic romanised spelling can convey adequate meaning). It is always good to have reference to the Chinese characters. .....<br />This is the translation for those who hope to take a whack at Chinese classical scholarship and military history.	2003-01-28
US	49580074	R3VR0KTD83TUX6	0870213113	396911357	Japanese Cruisers of the Pacific War	Books	5	7	11	N	Y	WAY TOO MUCH INFO.	This is one of the best bathroom reads I have seen in a long time. ...Stuff like the average thickness of every plate of every cruiser in the Japanese Imperial Navy makes this something that you just cannot put down. <br />It is the Mother of All Reference Books on Japanese Cruisers. There is nothing to compare with it. <br />It is quite simply stupendous and will garner more than few stares from inquisitive guests.	2003-01-27
US	49580074	R2SL4PDF4O06YC	0830813241	403041738	Darwin on Trial	Books	3	21	41	N	Y	Why You Do Not Want Lawyers Teaching Science	Johnson is a smart man and it may be a case of too much smarts of a certain kind, in this case the gift of rhetoric, that allows him to structure a sound, mathematically logical argument which unfortunately has very little to do with Science. <br />Johnson has no time for creation scientists. He defends an idea, as old as Aristotle, that could be called &quot;vitalism&quot; --- the notion that all things begin with the end in mind --- that within the seed of tree is the desired, pre-destined, end or &quot;Teleos&quot; of defined life programme. Such a notion of course is little more scientifically plausible than the idiocy that the world was created in 6 days. Therefore from the standpoint of Science there is little more to teleos than blind belief in a supreme being --- both are irrelevant to the ends of Science and what evolution actually is, since Evolution by its very definition does not &quot;strive&quot; toward anything. <br />To the layman however, repudiating the idiocy of Genesis and establishing the possibility of a creator somehow imbuing the world with purpose is somehow more &quot;plausible&quot; for those with very little understanding of Science. It is the thin edge of the wedge argument: if you can believe in ultimate purpose, you can believe in God, if you can believe in God you can then refute Darwinisn --- and that is the ultimate mission of this book --- to defeat Darwinisn and foist some crooked idea of teleos-based Science in its stead. Johnson would probably want that Science to also be Christian based, but to his credit, he does not push it that much. <br />He does however, through a series of straw-man arguments, establish a notion of ultimate purpose and the Godhead, both which are challenged most readily by Darwinism. The arguements are tight at times and smoothly linear. However his selection of facts is just that, his understanding of biology minimal, and we should forget his chapter on the &quot;Fossil Record&quot; -- it is clearly notbased on any clear paleaontological understanding. <br />In final analysis most of the arguments that Johnson uses are similar to that accepted by the prevailing Scientific community at the time Darwin in the 1850s. In that sense I found the book fascinating in its ability to represent old arguments very well. For anyone reading Mayer and any early histories of Darwin you will find many of the arguments interesting and equally stodgy and clearly relegated outside of accepted Science by the end of the 19th Century. <br />There is little Science here as the book is wholly rhetoric. With much of rhetoric, as Aristotle said, it is a tool but it is not truth. In this case you are very clearly seeing how an argument could be constructed against Darwin. It is very interesting from the standpoint of argumentation, however, like a logical argument against the law of gravity, there is nothing to recommend it. <br />I gave it a 3 because I think the rhetoric rates a 5 and the Science rates a 0.	2003-01-27
US	49580074	RAQA3RV6FZGRX	0700611282	942408696	Hell in Hürtgen Forest: The Ordeal and Triumph of an American Infantry Regiment (Modern War Studies)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A Solid Piece Of Interpretative History	This is a great example of how history should be written at times. I say, at times, because although the book is brilliantly written, for every act of empirical detail that strengthens Rush's thesis, there is a possibility that empiricism drags the narrative down a little, but only a little in Rush's deft hands. But this is no classical narrative of a battle. It is a specific empirical history of a regiment in some hard fighting. <br />There is a tendancy that once well-worn furrows of known battles are worked over, historians start looking further afield for more obscure battles or greater detail and interpretive analysis. Of late, a lot of historians have been concentrating on so-called \\"forgotten\\" battles --- I do not know if I would go so far as to say that about the Hurtgen, but the subsequent events in the Bulge and the Fall of Germany did relegate this battle to a \\"lesser order\\" in the minds of many historians. Rush's attempt to rescue the battle and the valour is well appreciated and represents perhaps the Sterling effort of this campaign. <br />Along the way Rush does an excellent job of demolishing several myths about the German Army --- akin to a belief that they could do no wrong, and were only beaten by mass weight of firepower and a storm of steel. Rush shows that the US really got it right in the area of replacements, constantly filtering reserves into understrength units instead of pulling units from the line to rest and refit. This made for weary and bleak fighting for those that remained in such units -- there was no rest, only the prospect of death, capture, mutilation and, if lucky, a wound that wouldn't kill one, but put one permanently out of action. <br />Germans let units run down and then amalgamated them with other units, in some cases they did withdraw and reconsolidate some new units. <br />The US method of supporting and not withdrawing units meant that the old hands could always be present, with ever building combat experience to call upon and to impart to new fills from the reserves. That meant one tough infantry unit. In the case of the 22nd Reg. some of the \\"old\\" soldiers had been fighting since June 06th 44. <br />It is a depressing prospect to realise that the US really had it right to not withdraw units from the line --- it ironically caused less casualties. That was pretty cold comfort to the old infantryman who sometimes knew that they were going into the \\"death factory\\" day after day with no prospect for relief. <br />Rush is right. The US really did have a superior method. I am not so sure that this dispells other so called \\"myths\\" of the German superman. German units could probably not be filled in the same way as Allied units anyway, because they simply did not have the men. <br />Also British and Canadian units also arrived at the same method of support. In the bloody battles of Caen and latter, they had attrition rates much higher than their US counterparts --- in some cases whole regiments were virtually wiped out after 2-3 days of battle. The US method of replacing casualties was also used by the Allies. It was also resented at the time by all parties. I think that Rush reminds us the alternatives to not withdrawing from the line could have been much, much worse, but were universally not recognised at the time from the Soldier's eye level.<br />Also there is still the disturbing fact that despite the German reserve method being substandard and the average German Landser being sub-par, they still managed to inflict frightful casualties on the flower of American soldiery for extended periods of time. Rush gives us a fresh look at the battle and the ramifications of the US casualty replacement method. How many myths he dispells will be left to the individual reader.	2003-01-20
US	49580074	R3M4PM3YATCMXN	0618056734	750191808	Unweaving the Rainbow: Science, Delusion and the Appetite for Wonder	Books	3	115	134	N	N	BE QUIET, SIT UP STRAIGHT AND EAT YOUR DNA	Dawkins the old Master is at his best and worst in this book. The premise of the bookis arranged around the idea that Poetry and Art are sometimes in fundemental opposition to science. But why should they be Dawkins asks? <br />It is a fair question and one must make allowances for some bad scientific allegories as well as plain bad poetry. Dawkins has started out with a wonderful idea and he develops it very nicely for about half of the book. Then the book begins to degenerate into something of a jumbled criticism of Steven J. Gould (nothing new there) and the wanderings and adapted characteristics of hedge sparrows and --- no surprise --- a defence of the selfish-gene theory. <br />In final analysis Dawkins starts out with one of the those cosmic-wonder-of-science books, and then it degenerates into borderline pedantry, with interesting bits of science thrown in around the sides. Dawkins is not the populariser that is Carl Sagan and his writing in this book shows it. <br />Dawkins is at his best when he has a specific point to prove in an area that he knows well. \\"The Blind Watchmaker\\" and \\"The Extended Phenotype\\" and the \\"Selfish Gene\\" are all par excellance when it comes to him arguing from a first premise in his area of expertise. <br />Dawkins is also an old crusty Oxbridge lecturer and it comes across in this book. I like that a lot! I think that some readers may be a little bit perturbed to be told what to think. But let's get it straight here. This man has one of the greatest minds in Modern Zoology -- it behooves us to listen to him. We have a lot to learn from him. His tone is also old-fashioned and may strike people as slightly pedantic, but there is no substitute for clear teaching techniques: Dawkins does not assume we are all geniuses and I really like how when he uses a word that is not all that common he encloses a meaning for it inside parentheses. It reminds me of those good scientific primers from the 1960s that one used to read, you read them tolearn something about the world and you expect to be told what to think. <br />Dawkins gives you the scientific, intellectual and vocabulary tools and he expects you to do the rest. He brooks no dummies. Some (American?) readers, raised with an insistence on \\"respect for other's opinions\\" -- however silly, may find Dawkins a little hard to stomach at times. We must remember that he comes from a long line of English intellectual thought; I see him as similar to Lord Whitehead, and Betrand Russel in that respect. Both were more than a little [ ] up on certain topics and both were extremely opinionated -- but they wrote well and the whole history of western thinking has benefited from the enormous ideas they espoused and the span of history and scientific thought that they have been exposed to --- Dawkins is from that same English intellectual stream, now frightfully close to being dried up.<br />In final analysis this is not the best of Dawkins' work. It does have very good vignettes of Science, from Newton's unweaving of the rainbow to those hedge sparrows, and it is obvious that Dawkins is also a connosieur of the romantics, particularly Keats and Shelly. That is also the mark of a well rounded human being, but the poetry and the science of this book could be better maintained, developed and connected.	2002-12-24
US	49580074	RRDDAOORWXM8N	0140058508	499822874	1066: The Year of the Conquest	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good 'Ol Fashioned Narrative	I really liked this book. I read this book before viewing the battlefield for the third time in my life. <br />Its a good introduction to the battle. If you are headed for England on a holiday and hope to visit Battle Abbey or be in the general area, it is a good authorative source on the events leading up to the battle, especially the battle of Stanstead Bridge where Harold defeated a Scandanavian Army before turning and force marching his army to the South. <br />Ironically it may have been this event that sealed his eventual fate. Williams warriors were relatively fresh, Harold's were tired from this tremendous military feat. Nevertheless they gave good account of themselves and the battle was held in the balance for a long time. <br />I do not think that there is anything wrong with allowing intellectual baises free riegn in historical works of this sort; the author, and ourselves, freely synpathise with the Anglo underdogs. In that sense it is no different from other historical events. The reviewer from Paris below, sees this as some kind of justification for genocide. Howarth's writing can never, and never have been the justification for the subjugation of others. It could never be with the democratic tradition that the is country gave the rest of the world. It set the standard that any other country has yet to eclipse.<br />That the Englishness created by the absorbtion of Norman Blood created a new England if a statement of fact. Just as new immigrants create new and ever changing countries, this first conquest of new immigrants contributed to a new and higher form of nation. We have both the Normans and the Saxons to thank. <br />A very good read of a genre less than 200 pages. Oh but more books were written with such breath, verve and conciseness.	2002-12-19
US	49580074	R17J4TSGRAZ59Z	0375404902	444606975	The Yellow Cross: The Story of the Last Cathars	Books	3	17	20	N	N	MARVELLOUS RESEARCH, LACKS NARRATIVE SWEEP	It appears that this review stands as the sole contrarian among the ranks so far. Let me start off by saying that the subject matter is smack-dab in the middle of my narrative interest. Weis is a consummate historian, his ability to produce narrative on the micro-style is VERY impressive. His reading of ancient scripts and texts has taken us quantitatively closer to this troubled era than most other scholars. As an academic work, this is a tour de force. <br />Unfortunately the book can also be classified as local history because most of the events occur within the ancient Cathar heartland straddling the border between France and Spain. The detail is, again, impressive in the extreme, but the problem is that detail seems to overwhelm the narrative for most of the text: there is endless discussion about what the perfects ate on many of their long journeys, much quoting of the everyday life experiences of the locals and much infering as to what must have happened given the facts that Weis generates from his reading of the medieval documents. Weis is off course right in all of this. But many times the subject matter is banal -- the honourable perfects must have slept in this loft in this particular house, or must have been offered such and such to eat, really begins to wear after 200 pages.<br />I therefore found myself wanting to break into chapters where the narrative builds as the inquisition closes in. Where traitors are dealth with preemptorily and where danger builds over chapters. I kept getting more detail about eating, sleeping, reading and toilet habits. When traitors are killed, as when one person is pushed off the top of a mountain, the events are dealt with in one or two paragraphs and then we back to the wonderings of the brother perfects. I gave it up after 200 pages. That is strange, because I almost never give up books on narrative history. <br />Therefore be warned -- if you are looking for the grand sweep of history, Weis will leave you hungry. <br />Also the Cathar revolt is a little overblown. As you find out later, the last inquisition never really faced any real military force as in the early encounters. The real battle was for the minds of informers and Cathars to act as confederates within the group and then bring them before the inquisition. The actual number of people involved, though some were influential, was actually small. <br />I would give this book 5 stars for historical scholarship and 1 star for keeping my interest. Overall it dissapointed me quite a lot.	2002-12-16
US	49580074	RX38WIJ2G6S6S	0781806739	797552465	Bitter Glory: Poland & Its Fate 1918-1939	Books	5	24	28	N	N	Classic Often Neglected Narrative	Although the name of the Poland in the interwar years is often invoked in many narrative volumes, there is precious little written about Poland in the interwar period. Best has gone a very long way in balancing the deficit. <br />There is also a lot of supposed truths of which scholars of the 20th Century take without critical discussion: Pilsudki was a dictator, Poland was anti-semitic, Poland was a loyal ally of other eastern European countries, Poland distrusted the Germans more than the Russians. <br />In fact Pulsudski was probably one of the most balanced authoritarian personalities in the 20th century, using force in the 1926 coup to rescue an immature Parliament, and acting as a balancing hand on the rudder of state to protect the right of Jews inside Poland. He never used political murder to further his ends. <br />This is important because it is often cited that Britain and Empire went to war for a country with anti-semetic background subject to pogroms. When Pilsudski died persecution of Jews started. Boycotting of Jewish shops was quintessentially Nazi-like --- but there the comparison ends! Polish Police were quick to move in whenever there was a threat of physical violence. Although shameful, the post 1936 Polish method, to remove Jews from Poland was one based upon economics only and not force --- no concentration camps ever littered the Polish landscape. <br />Poland on the other hand may have been too clever by half for its own good. Defeating the Red Army in 1920 Poland went on a foreign policy determined to make it a major power in Europe. All predicated on the notion that Poland would not take sides in any political or polemical conflict between Russia or Germany. <br />That strong-armed realist strategy gained her the southern lands of Lithuania, the German majority area of Silesia, and most notoriously, Poland took advantage in the wake of Munich to bully Czechoslovakia to give up Tsechen. It set a poor example and robbed Poland of some sympathy when the Germans pushed for the return of Danzig. Poland's objective was never to wipe a country off the face of the earth like Hitler's was for Poland. But it did lose Poland sympathy internationally and made it easier for Hitler to claim that all he wanted was the Corridor and Danzig. <br />The last days of Poland could have been described in greater detail, but Best goes a long way in answering the question of what went wrong with Poland and why, when the crunch came, it was so devastating. I do not think that Poland, even with the most consumate statemanship could have done much to survive. But there clearly were signs that Poland, with it tough infantry should have been able to withstand the nazi-Soviet agression longer that it did. <br />Best's descriptions are fast, lively and one gets a real sense of Pilsudski as a man, Smygly-Ritz, and foreign minister Beck. One also gets a better idea of the challenges this country faced being crushed between the Nazis and Soviet Russians outside, and imploding from lack of an effective Parliament and minority discontent.<br />One of the 10 best narrative reads this year for me.	2002-11-28
US	49580074	RR4M1MF22QSI7	0195067142	78132355	With the Old Breed: At Peleliu and Okinawa	Books	5	804	829	N	N	SLEDGE: THE ROBERT GRAVES OF THE MARINES	Although the cover and the title may not sound that eloquent or poetic, make no mistake, Sledge's elegy stands along perhaps 10 other wartime biographies written this century. He not only recounts war and the charnel houses of these two battles, but does it in a way that is both extremely moving in a prose style that is very reminiscent of the Robert Graves' WWI \\"Goodbye to all That\\" or WWII's Farley Mowat's \\"And No Birds Sang.\\"<br /><br />Sledge, who is not a professional writer like the above gentleman but writes, in my opinion, equally as well. As such Sledge has written the quintessential experience of the Marine in the Pacific War. it is one of the best, eloquent, haunting, and poetic reads I have every come across, and more than most war memoirs it is very, very scary.<br /><br />I think that one should be able to read through it quickly. I also liked it cause I ended up clawing through the jungle in the Horseshoe region on Peleliu and seeing nothing but gun positions, caves, and small human shaped holes in the coral landscape with Sake Bottles and used and unused cartridges in the holes.<br /><br />I took this book to Peleliu in 1998. The Jungle has mostly come back and there are few tourists on the Island, and none off the very few trails. The caves are littered with broken Japanese Army helmets, some rusted badly, others with the green in good condition.<br /><br />One can see nothing but jungle cleaved coral. After passing the usual \\"squid pots\\" (what the Japanese called the small coral caves and holes the dot the island), I was suddenly standing on an old oil drum, now rusted the same colour as the brown moss of the jungle. Then another drum.... rows of drums filled with coral. About at least 50 of them lined to a depth of three of four-deep covering the entrance to a coral cave. The front of the drums were torn and shredded by large calibre fire -- probably .50 calibre I surmise by the size of the holes. Despite its layers of armour I could not help but think that the Marines probably knocked the position out early, though it would have done them little good,as this position was covered by innumerable others.<br /><br />Sledge describes the caves and squid pots all up to the top of the ridge. Day after day the Marines in Sledges unit went into this horror. Okinawa was Peleliu magnified 10 times -- and they were dehumanised by the entire experience to a degree that those who have never, perhaps today few ever can, experience such a degree of fighting.<br /><br />It should be noted that the Marines and, later, the Army siezed the ridge after 4 months of fighting. 10,000 Japanese soldiers and about 2000 Americans died on this island 3 Miles Long and 1 mile wide. I came across their bones --- femurs, skull shards, and shredded bodies all over the island. All along I had Sledge's book to keep me dark company.<br /><br />And so I recommend you the book. In the same way that Robert Graves kept me company in my wet soujourns to Vimy Ridge and Ypres in Belgium, so too did Sledge keep me company in that hot hell in the South Pacific.bly knocked the position out early, though it would have done them little good,as this position was covered by innumerable others.    Sledge describes the caves and squid pots all up to the top of the ridge. Day after day the Marines in Sledges unit went into this horror. Okinawa was Peleliu magnified 10 times -- and they were dehumanised by the entire experience to a degree that those who have never, perhaps today few ever can, experience such a degree of fighting.      It should be noted that the Marines and, later, the Army siezed the ridge after 4 months of fighting. 10,000 Japanese soldiers and about 2000 Americans died on this island 3 Miles Long and 1 mile wide. I came across their bones --- femurs, skull shards, and shredded bodies all over the island. All along I had Sledge's book to keep me dark company.      And so I recommend you the book. In the same way that Robert Graves kept me company in my wet soujourns to Vimy Ridge and Ypres in Belgium, so too did Sledge keep me company in that hot hell in the South Pacific.	2002-11-27
US	49580074	R2R318AIB25UM	1855327236	151573155	Blenheim Squadrons of World War 2 (Osprey Combat Aircraft 5)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent Book on a Forgotten Plane	It gets 5 stars because it is about Blenheims. I bought this slender volume for my mate who was, when he lived, one of the few remaining Blenheim pilots. He flew them for over 3 years and loved them as a flying machine. He said that nothing could come close to the feeling of a sunny day in the Bay of Biscay with two engines humming -- as long as there were no German Fighters around -- if there were you were toast.<br />Although not a particularly effective fighter, in the bomber role it was used against shipping, and for recon. There were a plethora of squadrons across the RAF, RCAF, RAAF and Free French. This books gives you squadron designations, markings and the full kit of someone flying the rig. I actually still possess the flying suit for this machine in Canada. It also gives you their major varients, development their eventual disbandment. It includes a lot of reminiscenses from wartime pilots as well.<br />Athough my mate is now flying Blenheims of God's own eternal squadron, mere mortals like us can still enjoy the plane he loved so much when he was alive. A very nice volume.	2002-11-27
US	49580074	R3V0K7VG5M2XC0	0060931841	288480034	Rule by Secrecy: The Hidden History That Connects the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons, and the Great Pyramids	Books	2	23	42	N	Y	Marrs: A Sargasso Sea of Confusion and Ignorance.	In my quest for a conspiracy book that would stand up, against even common sense logic, Marrs, one of the giants of conspiracy theory, falls flat on his face. I bought the book on the assumption that maybe Marrs would come up with a workable definition of \\"conspiracy\\" or even \\"secret society\\" and then rigourously subject his examples to scientific rigour and logic. Maybe he would end up with a barely believable and thought provoking book.     Unfortunately this book will only appeal to those people who already have a paranoia that needs proving.     It is not even a particularly good read. Marrs seemingly starts with rough premise eg. Is the Trilateral Commission a secret society? He then produces a series of facts stating such banal things that this international organisation is made up of powerful people... who are international specialists. Well surpise on that one --- that is precisely why and what the organisation was founded for -- to study international society in order to stimulate cooperation and agreement across a number of levels.     The above example betrays a few traits of the muddle-headed thinking of conspiracy theorists:    1) Basic lack of any notion of political theory. Marrs had better read a few text books on International Relations. There the central question of IR is how does one resolve conflict in the era of sovereign states? One of the way to do this --- and it has been around since Hobbes and Kant --- is to discuss overarching levels of government to enhance cooperation and integration. The EEU and other international organisations are examples of this. Indeed it is one of constants of history that states emerge from county and regional entities. At some point with higher development of states it is stupid to think that one nation can 100% control its own destiny, it must cooperate and concede authority in certain areas to overarching political institutions (the UN, NATO, Red Cross, etc.) -- that is also one of the central issues of US and world foreign policy --- how does the the US deals with this challenge. This is a subject for political science and economics to work out --- it has nothing to do with conspiracy theories.    2) Marrs is not just a TERRIBLE historian, he has no idea of the discipline whatsoever (no adequate footnotes, a bibliography that includes ONLY secondary sources of his fellow conspiracy theorists, no first sources, and, what is worst, he has not cited a single authoritative reference for any historical event he decsribes --- you will find no authoritative sources on WWI, WWII, Vietnam or the Korean War.... or any other historical event he describes). His understanding of both international organisations and the events that spawned them is not just facile, it is plain puerile. Marr's Cook's tour of every historical event and organisation may sound interesting (I would never say convincing, because I would like to believe that the average reader is smarter than Marrs would have us believe); eg, His idea that Woodrow Wilson was a member of secret society that tried to foist the League of Nations on the US is plainly, forgive me, [dumb] in the extreme --- read some books on this era Mr. Marrs! WWI assailed the conscience of Mankind. It changed the way people thought necessarily, and forced them to look at the only real way of avoiding or dampening conflict --- a world body with the authority to censure members --- the League of Nations. It was before its time, but it is function of political and historical analysis, not secret societies.     3) Marrs obviously has no idea what constitutes science. He has not been taught to reason from a basic premise and subject his thoughts to scrutiny and empirical analysis. His ideas are all over the place. He can cite some facts, such as that the people on the trilateral commission are important and influential --- but not a shred of evidence that these people are engaged in a conspiracy.     Such is a real waste of paper. Everyone knows that politcally motivated people join groups: I can predict that the National Republican Committee is filled with influential people --- I cannot prove that it is a conspiratorial organisation. And Marrs has not a single shred of proof that these organisations are conspiratorial in the sense that they \\"engage in the secret planning for the detriment of the nation.\\"    Marrs' logic is very contradictory: he calls upon us to be open-minded and consider all examples \\"however crazy.\\" In the next paragraph he then states that his task is not to consider groups like Heavens Gate or other such societies since they are cleary inconsequential and local. I cannot think of a more whacked out group than Heaven's Gate, so why not analyse them? He then ends up by the end of the book throwing in every mythical, mystical group or concept ever invented since Shirley Maclaine went on an bad acid trip. Atlantis, UFOs etc. The only thing missing is the land of Mu and the tooth fairy.     4) Unlike books like \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail,\\" which have a somewhat interesting idea and analysis of a group that is developed with somewhat interesting historical detail --- you can learn something from reading Holy Blood! --- You can learn nothing from Marrs except how to think poorly about the world around you.     Once again a real good antidote for this book would be some popular science by Carl Sagan, a good read of any International Relations textbook, a good read of some history in general and a few editions of the Skeptical Inquirer.     As is so often the case with mystics and the crooked thinkers, Marrs thinks that a cursory look at a subject will reveal true knowledge and understanding. He is in fact treading on not just swampy logic but appears to lack even rudimentary knowledge of science, history or any other proper education that would innoculate him against the plague of gross mistaken thinking that he so admirably displays in this book.    As for Mr. Boylen and his Ph.D. (previous reviewer) --- is he serious --- which crakerjack box did he obtain it from.	2002-11-27
US	49580074	R2F8ZXQMVFL0IQ	0195103262	874448279	Karl Marx: His Life and Environment	Books	4	26	28	N	N	PURE AND PROPER INTELLECTUAL HISTORY	Let me say that if you are looking for a biography of Marx's life you had better look elsewhere. There are no long chapters about his school days, his relations with his Sisters, Mother or Father. You will not find detailed references to every argument Marx had or every aspect of his squallid and, at times, extremely personally irresponsible lifestyle. You must look elsewhere for those details. <br />This book is about ideas and the struggle between ideas. It is about Marx emersed in the ideas of his time and how those ideas shaped his thinking, whether changing his ideas, borrowing or regjecting them outright Berlin has a wonderful, at times unique grasp of the issues and the ideas of the times that Marx lived. <br />Starting with a broad description of the Rational-Empiricist debate and the Hegelian reaction to empiricism, Berlin describes Marx as a unique German Hybrid of British Empiricism married to a searching German Hegelian spirit, dissatisified with the traditional historical interpertations offered by Hegel and his German offshoots, the Young Hegelians. <br />Along the way Marx comes across a uniques set of millenarian and social theorists of his time; Proudhom, Bakunin, Engels, Lasalle, Feuerbach and others, whom all, even though perhaps disliking Marx personally, respected his argument style, his learning, and his deep insight into the problems of the time. <br />I would not classify this as a beginning book on Marx. There is a lot of ground covered here and if one does not have at least a thumbnail sketch understanding of the times, the social and political issues, then there will be a chance that the author will loose some of his readership. Berlin's prose has been described variously as dense and hard to understand. It may be for some readers. But Berlin is not excessively wordy (it is a slender volume), but he does have the ability to cover a lot of ideas and currents in a single sentence. It is this juggling and keeping in mind of a lot of ideas andconcepts in a single sentence that may necessitate one to reread certain sentences, or at least know the concepts to which he is referring. <br />If you do have general outline of the ideas of the age then you will love this book. I sat down thinking that this was my \\"serious reading.\\" I fully expected it to be a labourious process to get through this book. Instead I was profoundly surprised by the breath and depth Berlin covers in his lucid prose. <br />I found it hard to put the book down. <br />There is no analysis of whether Marx was right or wrong. Of how his ideas become to become the bible of the oppressed on the earth or how it eventually was transmogrified in some cases to justify the mass killing of those who stood in the way of historical materialism. This is a book of ideas, and as such the ideas discussed of Marx, his contemporaries, and his intellectual primogeniteurs are a ripping good read.	2002-11-21
US	49580074	R3ABHS1AB9YUQG	1580622240	626958013	Selling To VITO (The Very Important Top Officer)	Books	2	35	50	N	Y	Cheesy Tips for Cheesy Execs.	Being agressive is always good in most aspects of one's life but in entering a vital relationship with a senior executive there is often more at stake than a slick line and \\"yes I'll fix your problem attitude.\\" Most executives today are not the 1940s sterotypes that Parinello describes. Most executives are highly educated and sophisticated and respond to similar traits in sales people. The problem is that most sales people who try to sell to VITO are not highly educated or are not able to tweak the VITO's hot spots. More often the cheesy lines that sales people learn and use (some contained in this book) achieve exactly the opposite of what one wants -- VITO gets turned off. If one persists in this line one comes off as a used car salesman -- what one Australian reviewer called an \\"American\\" approach. I do not believe that even Americans are that immune to critical thinking and so happy-clappy that they can eat up all Parinello uncritically.<br />Parinello is unfortunately sophisticated neither in his writing technique nor his organisation. The writing is cheesy and reminds one of a vanity press at times. There is numerous repetition and really cliche stories to while away your hours. Parinello sells this book as a guide, but the organisation is so disjointed that it really cannot be said to be a \\"guide\\" as such. <br />Having said all of the above, Parinello does hit many of the vital points, handling gatekeepers etc. and these hard questions are what real intelligent sales professionals ask themselves. But the problem really is in Parinello's peurile and 1950s approach to solving these problems -- the answers are the problem, the questions are good.  <br />Vito is motivated to talk with people who can solve his/ her problems, that much is true. But they are interested in straight talking, honest and aware sales people as well. Not ones so focused on the sale that they betray their lack of sophistication. <br />VITO knows that his problems are too important to entrust to used car sales people.	2002-11-13
US	49580074	R22Q9E92LH43BT	088411631X	715807831	Brown on Resolution	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Read it Once and Remember it Vividly	I read it when I was about 16. Its images stuck with me for over a quarter century. It is a tale about doing duty, doing duty whatever the personal costs. It deals with a upbringing in Victorian England by a single mother of her son. She is determined she will make a career for himself in the Royal Navy. The son is the product of an affair with the German Naval Liaison Officer stationed in London before WWI. <br />She resolves to learn everything about the navy she can and raise her son to serve. And serve he does, until it takes him to a deserted Galapogas Island in WWI where he does deadly battle as a single man with a German Cruiser repairing in the waters after a naval action.<br />No happy endings, just haunting images that stay with you. For me this is one of CS Forester's best novels. Read it if you can find a rare old edition in the second-hand bookstore.	2002-11-05
US	49580074	R7Q42WQL7YDLV	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	3	35	55	N	Y	Shock Troops, Schmock Troops! Reductionist and Repetative	I enjoyed this book to no end, but from the start the really annoying thing (and its gets more and more annoying the further you read) is his endless repitition of his thesis:     THESIS: The Western Tradition in war is the product of the Greek Polis and its continuance is manifested in the same ways as it essentially was during the good ol' days of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and whoever else they could fit around the table at the \\"Symposium\\": free citizen soldiers with certain rights to property, life, the ability to elect civic officials, and a scientific method of inquiry, all these qualities make better soldiers. Moreover they yeild a method of battle seeking to conclusively close with the enemy and defeat him in \\"shock battle\\" (I do not know how many times he uses that term).     Hansen offers good cases studies in battles, but he draws them out WAY TOO MUCH.....! Therefore his best writing is at the beginning, when he introduces his ideas, and at the end, when he is forced to reach conclusions --- in both areas we are presented a lot of new, and therefore non-repetative, information.     Some concerns with this book are:    1) Extremely reductionist. Every battle cited is further proof of his thesis. Even Cannae, where an army not of the western tradition the Carthaginians (an extremely contentious statement since Carthage was founded by Phonecians whose roots may have been very similiar to Greeks, but hey, who am I to argue with a classics scholar), defeated the Romans who were the very apotheosis of the western tradition.     Hansen has an answer however: the very fact they lost the battle was indicative that Romans were able to absorb enormous losses and then raise armies of free citizen soldiers again whilst those of Carthage were doomed to ultimately loose the war because they were ultimately an authoritarian state. Citizen soldier states win even when hey lose! The exception proves the rule as it were.... This is a supremely reductionist argument and one surprising coming from a teacher of the Classics.    2) War And the Liberal Tradition: Hansen rightly asks the question of what would happen if two nations of the western, classical tradition fight. Some notion is seen in the modern battles of the Somme, Passchendale, and Stalingrad. Hansen also reafirms the liberal assertion that democracies do not fight, but he also admits that there is little room for error in the future if they even do... But he does not go into the implications of this theory. There are only about 4-5 pages in the entire tome that deal with this subject.    3) Case Studies: His chapters on Salamis, Rourke's Drift & Midway are the best and although cliche at times, are supremely interesting and offer interesting perspectives on the nature of all combatants (I really liked his section on Midway and although I have read a lot on this battle, I found he had a lot new to say that was interpretive).     His worst chapter is the one on Tet, which seems almost tacked on the end of the book (he should lose it) and offers nothing new accept the currently \\"conservative\\" fashionable reinterpretation that America really did win this war. There is no mention about the fact that, agree or not, this was a popular war of liberation (waged immorally by both the North and the US); the utter mendacity of US Generals and soldiers in the field and; no notion that just and moral regimes supported by the people could and should really support and fight for themselves.    4) Morality: One point that Hansen states is that the western way of warfare, although more efficient, is no more moral than any other and much more bloody because it seeks decisive \\"shock battle\\" with the enemy. His examples seem to bear out his assertion about the amorality of the western military tradition. However with a system of battle that is so destructive it is incumbent on western morality (itself a product of the Greek tradition) to explain how morality in war is linked, how it can be linked, and how it SHOULD be linked. Moreover if the Greek Classical tradition produced both western morality and the western way of warfare, how are the two necessarily mutually exclusive as Hansen would have us believe.     I think that any discussion of western morality may muddy the water and would have lead to a much more complicated book, though perhaps one less repetative and much more interesting.     His ideas are merely interesting. There are enough holes (cited above) in his thesis to fire an 18 inch round from the Yamato through. And in this sense the value of his ideas are really to be found in the heuristics of such a study, to say that there is \\"truth\\" here is to impute far too much: the case studies range from Very Good (Salamis) to Extremely Bad (Tet) and just plain bad (Cannea and Lepanto).     Even though I disagree with a lot of what Hansen says, I still would say that he has established a worthy subject with a lot of hard questions that need answers. As a heuristic approach, his book is a tour-de-force.... Now if he could only get a better editor for the next book, he will find a willing punter in me, one willing to plunk the US $ 35 ...down on his next work.....   As long as Hansen can promise me that I do not have to read the word \\"shock battle\\" 10 times on the same page.	2002-10-28
US	49580074	R2JNZNMGDYR37	0714643475	577057004	The Dark Invader: Wartime Reminiscences of a German Naval Intelligence Officer (Classics of Espionage)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	ONE OF THE TOP TEN SPY MEMOIRS	This is a real gem of a book. It was recommended to me by a friend and the very next day I found a 1938 Penguin Edition staring out at me in the second-hand book store. For the 50cents it cost me, it was one of the best reads in my life. <br />Von Rintelen was a German Naval Officer in WWI and was one of those cobbled together in desperate times to work on espionage eassignments all over the world. Speaking either North American or British English, he could disguise himself effortlessly as a businessman interested in buying armaments for the western allies in New York. While America was still neutral Von Rintelen planted bombs on transports and munitions ships, disseminated false imformation, and even organised his own labour union (inviting US congressmen to speak at some of its conventions) all usually with the help of disgruntled Irish Americans wanting to help cripple the English war effort. All the while he established a string of false companies to buy and trade in NY. <br />The vignettes are incredible and worthy of a hollywood thriller. He ends up at a hotel party in Massachussets and finds out that the British Naval Attache assigned to look for him is attending the same party that night. Von Rintelen, decides right away to join the party and introduces himself to the British Attache as .... of all people... a British Naval Commander sent from London on special assignment to apprehend this Von Rintelen chap! (Really himself). Of course without instantaneous email or transfer of pictures over the wire, the British Attache has no idea that he is indeed talking with Von Rintelen (hillarious!), while Von Rentilin, over drinks, proceeds to draw out all the information British Naval Intelligence know on hilself. <br />He was eventually arrested in the Channel while on a Dutch Liner heading back to the country disguised as a Swiss National. <br />This is WWI and the ruthlessness of later wars is not present. His opponents are mainly honourable &quot;genetlman&quot;where he enjoys the commraderie of other English Officers whilst in confinement in England. His first glimpse of &quot;democracy&quot; happens when he is shipped back to the US as common spy (despite the fact that this may have been technically illegal under international law --- even at the time) and incarcerated in Atlanta until 1921. That he only got 4 years for espionage and sabotage is a interesting indication how far the US has come: in 1917, during wartime,they gave German Spies guilty of espionage &amp; sabotage 4 years in jail. In 2002 the US is executing teenagers and the mentally handicaped for capital crimes -- progress?<br />His descriptions of Southern Jails is also interesting and his empathy with the criminals is an interesting refrain for this German gentleman. <br />A highly interesting and fast paced book that should be made into a movie.	2002-10-28
US	49580074	R385J83AXAGJLZ	0156468999	283082677	Keep the Aspidistra Flying	Books	5	7	9	N	N	One of Orwell's Best	My God! Whatever happenned to good old clean writing where one regards the scene, action, events and characters at hand, contemplating universals and dissonent examples to reach some higher, usually very personal, truth?<br />Thank God there is still Orwell? This is one of his best. Forget the literary critic's remarks about this being a young Orwell. Who cares? It is honest, clean and offers a valuable example of life of working poor in England in the 1930s. When you contrast it to our present circumstance you see a lot that has changed and so much that has not; two pound / month was just not enough to survive, but to slowly starve to death. But Gordon will not yeild to the Money God that he has delcared war against. While he is waging this war we glimpse at his self-induced problems along the way.<br />The ending poses that critical question; Is he a hero? Was he conqueror of, or conquered by the Money God?<br />There are a few dated expressions which add colour to the book in my estimation. The trash readers of the times he refers to are unknown to most of us nowadays. But it does not matter. We know what he means. You could just as easily substitute Danielle Steel with the names of the other trash authors of the 1930s. We would then get his intent.<br />A great read. A true modern classic.	2002-10-17
US	49580074	R2GHCVIXH3DNOX	0671792172	226539248	Pacific Campaign: The U.S.-Japanese Naval War 1941-1945	Books	4	20	24	N	Y	Good Primer of the Pacific War	The Pacific Campaign offers a very good overview of the complexities, personalities and actions in the Pacific. It does not break any new ground in what it offers to readers and, as a hefty primer, there is lots left out of its 400 pages. <BR>Having said all of that, if you are looking for a good long overview of the sea campaign, then Van der Vat offers one of the best. Main themes in this book include: <br />- an appreciation of the role of intelligence in both the Navy and Army in winning the war.<br />- an American distain for concentrating their forces and going for a single defeat of the Japanese Navy close to home. Instead Van der Vat maintains that the US unneccesarily lengthened the war by splitting forces into two: one for an island hopping drive across the central Pacific; the other to assuage the vanity of a prima donna Douglas MacArthur in his New Guinea, Philippines campaign. <br />- a readiness to call into fault some popular icons on both side of the war, looking at Admiral Yamamoto as morally culpable in the expansion of Japanese seapower and, by definition, the criminal regime of Militaristic Japan. His feelings on MacArthur have already been noted. <br />- the American shunning of all other allies in this crusade in the Pacific and their sometimes utter disdain for her allies, especially the wastage of the Australian Army, tying up some of the finest infantry in the Pacific in useless rear area campaigns. <br />The narrative read well and fast at times. It does lack detail on some very important aspects of the campaign that I found a little annoying: a cursory look at the effectiveness of the Kamikaze, a lack of the detail on the carrier-based operations against Japan and by extension, the actions of the tactically significant British Carrier group in the Pacific. <br />This is a narrative of sea and not land battles, but there appears to be no real formula for deciding which land battles to decribe and those not to describe. <br />I enjoyed the read, I would probably read one of Van der Vat's other books in the future. But if you are looking for something new in Military History you are unlikely to find it here.	2002-10-10
US	49580074	R32R7IE9QKFXMB	0850525934	935051814	Hitler's Jackals	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Revised Update	Rupert Butler has done a great favour to all those interested in Balkan history but for whom the skein of Balkan history appears at times much too tangled to unravel and certainly much too difficult to tackle in the single slender volume. <br />Butler's choice of organisation on a chronological and country by county basis follows the gradual growth of the Hitler Jackal Pack in Italy and Central Europe (Vichy France is excluded). This is straightforward enough but he also manages to consistently interweave select reoccuring themes. One of these is the way the general populous regarded Naziism and their country's growing relations with a party formed on racialist lines. It is clear that although there were large parts of the population that supported and aped Naziism in an attempt to ingratiate and carry out their own Nazi revolutions, there were also genuine patriots on the left and right with little time for the foolish pedantry of Nazi racial ideologues. <br />National parties in Romania and Hungary were at least partially successful in breaking the full force of Nazi attempts to penetrate all aspects of society: King Boris managed to keep Bulgarian troops out of Russia; Admiral Horty managed until 1944 to keep Hungary free from occupation by Germany and, both countries managed to hold off intially the full impact of the main ideological assualt from Naziism against the Jews. In many cases nationalism was the bulkwark against both Naziism and Communism with national parties consolidating power in the early stages of the war at the expense of home grown Nazi parties. In Rumania the forces of the right were actually able to purge and lock up Rumanian Nazis and institute a nationalist/ fascist regime while at the same time currying favour with Hitler. <br />Hitler's role was at first pragmatic. By using pressure tactics he was able to make a deal with nationalist parties in the Balkans in his persuit for their ultimate paticipation in his War against Russia and, at least tacit compliance in rounding up Jews. <br />But national parties, with the exception of Bulgaria, at the end of the day were still not able to avoid Hitler's demands of participation in the War against the Allies and specifically sending units to the Russian front. In addition, the progressive elimination of the Jews, so central to Hitler's foreign policy, could not be inevitably put off with scions like Heydrich, Himmler, Frank and Eichmann roaming the Balkans. When nations lost their nerve in the war they were directly occupied by Germany, as Hungary was in 1944, and national nazi-like parties given the riegns of power by their German masters. This allowed the latent Nazi killing machine to directly kick into gear and brought national anti-semites to butcher and kill with impugnity. <br />In all of the countries with the exception of Croatia (perhaps Hitler's most rabid jackal) the real terror and wholesale killing of political opponents and Jews began after the demise of national parties, such as when King Boris of Bulgaria died and when Admiral Horthy of Hungary was placed under arrest and power given to the Arrow Cross (Hungarian Nazis of a particularly brutal ilk).<br />Butler also traces the role of these countries as allies of Germany in WWII. Despite stereotypes the soldiers of almost all of the countries, particularly Rumania, fought well in Russia, moreover they produced their fair share of outstanding pilots. Their main downfall was lack of proper equipment and clothing for campaigning in Russia. Each country had no ideological axe to grind with Moscow but all profited in the early Nazi victories by adding significant slices of territory to their national boundaries. <br />The participation of all countries comes alive in this book and there is plenty to keep one interested. We see individual nations with their own domestic problems and achievements factored into their WWII role. Butler does not mash all countries together to yeild a grand theory. Continuums in fervour for the Nazi cause existed and come out in this book. On one side was the incredibly sadistic rule of Ante Pavelic in Croatia (it would be hard to find a more willing Nazi nation), to the national governments of Horthy (Hungary) and Antonescu (Rumania) struggling to maintain power along national popular fascist lines, while all the time keeping at arms length (and at times suppressing national Nazi movements); to King Boris of Bulgaria covetous of Northern Greece and parts Rumania yet determined to avoid war with Russia. <br />Despite the occassional stands of national resistence movements in the Jackal nations there is not too much to be proud of here for the respective countries. Although Hitler threatened and inveigled, there we far too many willing adherents to Nazi ideologies in these countries and they showed this in their willingness to profit on the territorial gains given initially by German victory and their zeal to exterminate Jews. Admiral Horthy has recently been ressurected in Hungary as a hero in the struggle against Germany, but it is clear from Butler's book that no amount of national re-examination or attempt to look for heroes in these times can erase the guilt and collective shame for the actions of the \\"Jackal Pack' in this desperate period.	2002-10-10
US	49580074	R2YGT78ETU1GTR	0140440844	584337600	The Fall of the Roman Republic: Six Lives (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	58	65	N	N	WHY THE REPUBLIC FELL?	I feel a bit strange writting a review about any classic. Its a bit like writing a review of the Koran or the Bible. There is a reason why all these books are classics, and the reason is that they give some glimpse at the immutable nature of mankind. <br />Plutarch describes a nation wracked by personal divisions during the Roman Civil War with chapters on some of the major participants in this conflict: a true fall from grace for both the people of Rome and the institution of republicanism. There is a lot here that is exciting, such as the war against the Parthians, Jugurthia and the personal rivalries between Ceasar and Pompey. <br />The writing moves from what I would classify as mildly interesting, usually at the beginning of each chapter as he relates the youth, familiar, and power influences on the personal development of each live, to ripping tales of combat, honour lost and found, and principled peoples meeting usually, bloody fates. Lives of particular note are Pompey and Cicero in this book, but my personal favourite was Crassus, his fight against the slave revolt of Spartacus and his eventual annihilation with his entire army against the Parthians. The other real character that keeps popping up in each chapter is Cato, a political idealist who commited suicide for his repulican ideals when there was every indication that Ceasar respected him and would have spared his life despite Cato's defection to Pompey. <br />There is lots here that is of course raw speculation: I think that it is unlikely that Ceasar really had dictatorship on his mind since his early youth, but Plutarch would have us believe that it was almost forordained that Ceasar wanted personal control of the State. <br />Plutarch is much more interesting to read than Ceasar or Livy. So if you are looking for a good place to enter the classics, this is one good read.	2002-10-08
US	49580074	R33T7607TI01V0	0674639065	634028169	One Long Argument: Charles Darwin and the Genesis of Modern Evolutionary Thought (Questions of Science)	Books	3	6	13	N	N	NOT REALLY AN ARGUMENT	I bought this book as a brief introduction to SJ Gould's opus &quot;A History of Evolutionary Theory.&quot; I have no idea how well it will prepare me because I have not yet tackled that tome.<br />Let me say a few things what this book is not about:<br />1) It is not an argument in any real sense of the term, at least the book does not give us a glimpse of the passions in the scientific community in the mid-19th Cen. Mayr's style is more descriptive. He describes the current thinking in Darwin's time and the, mostly philosophical, rational debates that Darwin's ideas were immersed. <br />2) There is no real background of description of the people around Darwin except to enumerate their thoughts in contrast or in support to him. We get some good background of Darwin's personal life when it is relevant to an idea, but this slender volume is about the battle of ideas, but at least in Mayr's work, the passion largely omited.<br />3) The work deals with Evolution and how Darwin and others around him reached rational scientific conclusions on certain ideas. It is testament to the intrinsic simplicity of the idea (its relative ease to being proved wrong -- yet was not) that motivated the personalities around him Darwin until Evolution became the firmanent for the scientific understanding of the origin of species and the rise of genetic theory.<br />4) The books lacks most of the later day varients of Darwinism, there is little about Gould's punctuated equilibrium or Dawkins' selfish genes. The reason is that these ideas compliment the theory and do not challenge any major central idea of the descent of man or the evolution of species --- all understood and accepted by the scientific community by about 1900. <br />5) This not a book about the &quot;debate&quot; between creationism and science. This is a serious scientific, philosphic study and those topics such as teleos and the saltation (spontaneous creation) theory of the origin of species are only discussed in relationship they had on the scientific mind of the 19th Century. By the 20th Cen. such ideas had been relegated to the fringe and off the scientific plate of ideas. A true testament to the brilliance of Darwin.<br />The reading style, while not like Gould or Matt Ridley, is pleasant but the emphasis on the philosophic underpinnings of Darwin means that the debate does not deal with any empirical issues. He is intersted in Argument and the history of the Scientifc Argument.<br />I gave the book an overall 3 because although I realise that Mayr is one of the best minds in the area of the history of evolution theory I found the book losing my interest at points. How it prepares me for Gould's Opus Major I will only know when I have the guts to tackle the whole 1800 pages of it.....	2002-10-08
US	49580074	RGGTW6YIJ1T73	0874779642	251799285	The Cosmic Serpent: DNA and the Origins of Knowledge	Books	2	11	31	N	N	Carlos Castenda Discovers DNA	The book is pure anthroplogical speculation that Shamans and other lost Noble Savages have been communicating with DNA in the metaphoric guise of snakes for centuries. <br />The formula goes like this: take an obscure speculation, buttress it with arcane and selective evidence (while ignoring all sorts of other details), then combine it with the the understanding that DNA is a helixy sort of thing and so are snakes. Now you have the makings of a book. <br />Somehow Narby believes that there is a plethora of shamanistic evidence that the lost secrets of DNA have been communicated to man. He catalogues this quite well, but really, as he readily admits, it is pure speculation in the extreme. His choice of evidence is also highly selective (I wonder how many shaman did not see snakes while in a trance, or those who saw other animals, or even humans in their trances). <br />Well what's next in this recipe of uncommon wisdom from drug induced states of consciousness? Crack and Marijuana heads divulging the truth about God?<br />At times an interesting read. I would however have enjoyed it more when I was 18 and this type of current \\"uncommom wisdom\\" held some interest. But I think that, to his credit, Narby is more or less honest in his speculation and admits that it is not in the least scientific. That is good, but if such is the case I can always buy a sci-fi novel.	2002-10-07
US	49580074	R1PKSGECRMI6PX	188292634X	339537917	Plagues of the Mind: The New Epidemic of False Knowledge	Books	3	33	40	N	Y	VERY AGREEABLE OPINIONS, BAD POLEMICS	Firstly let me say that really like what this book deals with. The spread of false knowledge and the use of reason and scientism, when grounded in false precepts yeilds a plethora of monstrous, even abominable ideas. These self serving ideas born in the sleep of \\"reason\\" are really the fruit of false precepts; the three that he deals with are the noble savage, romantic nature myths and Goddess myths. <br />Unfortunately agreeing with most of his conclusions does not mean that I agree with his methods: <br />1) His three myths are highly selective and he argues in a reductionist style: the Noble Savage Myth IS responsible for racical environmentalism and almost any other form of environmentalism from common sense saving energy to saving the Spotted Owl. He uses the myth to explain everything, and in the end undermines his own argument. Shades of Freud...? .... Marx..? <br />2) Moreover he could analyse all sorts of other \\"myths\\" as well: distrust of big government (a very American myth), say or, the \\"halcyon days myth\\" -- the myth that America (or any other country in the world) was once a peaceful, non-violent state of bliss that has been corrupted by modern man. These are certainly as responsible for as much false knowledge as anything Thornton cites. <br />3) Thornton has an annoying habit of drawing completely linear relationships of cause and effect from myths and the way people act or think today. So for example, he says that teenage pregnancy and reluctance of people to take sexual responsibility is a DIRECT result of the liberal democratic myth that knowledge will always ameliorate the condition of mankind. The sexual revolution of the 60s and the idea of knowledge liberating one from sexual mores is a common phenomomen. But the link, as any real thinking person knows, is far from linear -- there are many reasons for lack of sexual responsibility (the US Christian South has the highest by far, rates of teenage pregnancy), and this condition is far from new. Here Thornton falls victim to the conservative Halcyon Days Myth -- ie, there was a time when everyone was sexually responsible and children being born out of wedlock was not a problem. Thornton knows his history, so where in blazes does he draw such a warped opinion. <br />4) Thornton tars with the same brush a lot of people who really have not a lot in common, and whose opinions may not stem from faulty reasoning. Some people have always been strong environmentalists, but that has stemmed from the logical fact that there is so much to lose if science and man are wrong on a few vital questions of the environment --- human existance may end --- it has nothing to do with a pastoral concept of man in harmony with nature, but outright fear. <br />5) Some of the accepted empirical \\"facts\\" of Thornton's argument are not really \\"facts\\" but conjectural interpretation of the classics. As such, like all literary critisism, there is a lot of varience in interpretation. But this is great as an intellectual idea -- great food for thought --- but it is never be enough to \\"disprove\\" certain ideas of the present. His statement that Roman's and Greek held nature as foreign and evil is not a fact --- it is hotly debated. <br />6) In his critique of certain myths, Thornton attacks not only the myth, but the very virtue of reason! That very thing that he is trying to defend! This is a point that I found paradoxical and annoying all through the book. It almost verges on an anti-intellectual argument. <br />7) His statement that man is not improvable = evil, is also a value judgement. This is a big question itself and Thornton states \\"man is evil, merely because he can choose to be.\\" I am not sure about this. I am sure that it is one of those questions that people have contemplated for a long time, it is self evident to me that some men are evil, but not that man is evil -- that is a value judgement, not entirely backed up by empirical events. Cooperation and trust are the hallmarks of not only the traditions of US and European liberal democracy, but they also ensure that my order from Amazon gets delivered on time to my door 99.99999999999% of the time and that no one runs off with money. <br />8) Thornton also falls into another myth, that of the myth that people are always 100% responsible for their actions because they know the consequences of those actions. The consequences of this myth have wreaked a horrible toll on the US with youths committed to jail for murders done as teenagers, and six and seven year olds going to councilling because they looked up their female classmate's dresses. Thornton raises an important issue that we need to teach in society, personal responsibility, but we also need the balance of knowing that, sometimes, we do not 100% know the consequences of our actions. <br />One the other hand I really liked Thornton's honesty. He is probably most close to a traditional conservative (Edmund Burke form); he distrusts large corporations and their ability to manipulate the myths to get us to act out our narcisstic acts of rampant consumerism -- the ultimate act of self love and underfulfillment and the corporate dogma attached to the neccessary proliferation of information as detrimental to true learning. <br />There is much that is contradictory in this book. As to his value judgements, yes I agree with Thornton -- we would be sharing sherries all night around the fire and agree with each other --- but the logic of this book could be a lot tighter. A much better read in this genre is Keith Windshuttle's \\"The Killing of History.\\"	2002-09-30
US	49580074	R1SBVW4ZY8RR3Q	0471134473	972903154	Basic Physics: A Self-Teaching Guide	Books	5	158	168	N	Y	Pretty Good	Should bring you up to Grade 12 level in Physics or serve as a good primer for those middle age lovers of science whose occupations never test our knowledge of physics, but nonetheless  who  feel the need for a physics &quot;fix&quot; later in life. <br />This book is so good that I never have to ask my wife (an Engineer) for help. In that sense it is good for family relations as well.	2002-09-19
US	49580074	R16D9XL47JZMG2	0716733870	702232531	Why People Believe Weird Things: Pseudoscience, Superstition, and Other Confusions of Our Time	Books	3	6	6	N	Y	A GOOD READ BUT NOT THE BEST OF ITS GENRE	A Good Book aith a lot of interesting details on creationists, cult and UFO believers and generally anyone that never learned how to think critically.<br />There is in my opinion some interesting tidbits that you normally do not run into in this kind of book --- the section on the disease of holocaust denial and Ayn Rand believers (certainly not a disease, but a little disturbing nonetheless) are of particular note.<br />Shermer concentrates on the fallacies and crooked thinking inherent in the things that do not make the simple test of being empirical or subject to change given new data (the most basic requirements for any logical and scientific view of the world).<br />Richard Dawkins does a far better job of debunking creationism. Sagan, the man who predicated his whole life on the study of the possibility of extraterrestial life, does a better job in disclaiming any assummed probability that we have any shred of evidence through the ages for any rational belief in UFOs of massive world conspiracy theories.<br />The organisation of the book is also a little haphazard. In that sense it can still be highly entertaining by reading a chapter at a time and then returning to it from time to time.<br />All in all a very good effort and one that should be lauded when everywhere the forces of irrationalism and intolerance are on the rise.	2002-09-19
US	49580074	R1N15RUTAORKL3	0802713548	739246021	Lionhearts: Richard 1, Saladin, and the Era of the Third Crusade	Books	2	8	16	N	N	FAR FROM THE DEFINITIVE STUDY	Whether you like your narrative history insightful and intellectual or exciting and anecdotal you will not find enough to get your teeth into here. Sad because the title of the book holds out so much promise.<br />Regan is a good, solid military historian, and other of his works attest to this, but this volume lacks a real analysis of the line up of battle and how both sides reckoned on fighting and winning on tactical and strategic levels. Sieges seem to magically \\"happen\\" in an era where sieges were engineering marvels requiring money, technical innovation and access to certain resources to build siege engines.<br />We are told very little of the knights, how they funded themselves and what made them endure privations to fight for these two men, Richard and Saladin.<br />But one thing that clearly emerges in the book is that although the author is enanoured with both Richard and Saladin by his own description there is little to find really honourable in Richard. He was petulant, immature and prone to fits of rage which, although no doubt making him a formidable opponent, do not a military genuis make.<br />Also the record needs to be put straight on his killing of the inhabitants of Acre. The rules of warfare and the right of enemies who surrender to another were well known and developed in all societies and butressed with theological justifications even in the 12th Cen. One surrendering arms to an enemy gives over their protection to the other in return for laying down arms. For Richard to kill these innocents was nothing but cold-blooded murder for which he should be rightly vilified. There was no \\"moral courage\\" --- to quote Regan -- in any of Richard's actions at Acre. Regan I think is clutching at straws in an attempt to revive his personal hero.<br />Saladin comes across in almost an \\"Orientalist\\" image --- enlightened barbarian with learning, intelligence and compassion and moral judgement. So be it. Perhaps Saladin was, or perhaps we do not have access toenough Arabic documents which state otherwise.<br />The campaign in Outremer is also short-lived as is the campaigning in Rhodes against the wily King Isacc. The complicated political machinations and the role of the military orders is largely ignored.<br />The one good thing about the book is that it deals with historical fact and does not appeal to fringe non-intellectual themes (read: The first crusade was an attempt to restore the blood-line of Christ?!). This is a serious work, unfortunately it did not grab me like most other works on this period.<br />A noble effort but not on my top-ten of books read this year.	2002-09-19
US	49580074	RCSQEV0TPVSL6	0304351717	427404223	Cassell Military Classics: Salvo!: Epic Naval Gun Actions	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Good Naval History, Action, Excitement	The Cassel Series has been a very good source of Military Classics. The quality is generally very good, but this slim volume stands out. It offers some very unique actions between large-gun ships from 1894 (Sino-Japan War), to the latter stages of WWII in the Pacific (Leyte Gulf and the Surigao Battle). <br />The pace is gripping and the action ablely described by a person who obviously served in the RN in WWII. Even if you are an officiando in naval history you will like these stories and even learn a little. The fate of the Emden is well known, but the similar fate of the HMAS Sydney in nearby waters a quarter century later is less well known. <br />My personal favourite is the story including the brave little chase of the HMS Glowworn against the Admiral Hipper, reversing course and charging out of her own smokescreen at 38 knots in an attempt to ram the Hipper ranks as one the true heroic acts of a small ship against tremendous odds. <br />A very good read.	2002-09-10
US	49580074	R3UGR0AUR6OA1H	0060935502	897653726	Modern Times  Revised Edition: The World from the Twenties to the Nineties (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	64	103	N	N	Brilliant Prose, Highly Questionable History	The first thing to remember when reading Johnson is to forget about meaningless ideological terms like \\"conservative\\" and \\"liberal\\" (especially when used by Americans they come to mean the opposites they originally meant). The one thing that Johnston makes clear in his book is that ideology has been the bane of minkind in the 20th Cen. and the major cause of most man-made calamities. As such Johnson is asking us to return to a non-ideological world bounded by reason and common sense.<br />The book however is not narrative history writ large; it is more a \\"moral\\" history of the 20th Century with several leading themes which Johnston returns to with ever increasing import and relevance. The greatest of these is that ideology, left and right, has been the waster of mankind and the destoyer of moral integrity. <br />The greatest challenge he sets up for those who see the world in ideological opposites is the notion that there is really no functional and moral difference between Fascist, Nazi and Communist regimes (at least in what kinds of states they produce) --- all of them in practise have lead to dictatorship, a loss of basic freedoms, and, in their most striking characteristic, mass murder perpetrated by the state. He is most likely right in this assertion and no doubt historians looking back within the next 20 years will probably see the advent of ideological states of the extreme left and right as a symtomatic of the 20th century and make no real distinction between them, functionally they are the same (much in the same way as we now make little distinction between individual barbarian tribes who attacked Rome). <br />That these ideological excesses were perpetrated by the state because of some notion that the developments in science imbued, coloured these ideologies with the notion of the attainability of absolute truth once the underlying truths of \\"history\\" were found, that is another question. It is also one that Johnston comes most close to proving, since itis clear that ideologues with no understanding of such concepts such as natural selection --- Hitler, Mussolini and Stalin --- really believed that there were such things as \\"superior\\" forms of government and \\"superior\\" races of people. A conclusion that could not be reached by anyone with even rudimentary understanding of Darwin's tracts and the elementary gene theory (only then emerging). <br />So there is at least as much worship of anti-rationalism in the thought of Stalin (class enemies are everywhere), and Hitler (man finds his ultimate expression only when he submerges himself in the mass of the State) as there is in the notion that the world can be understood in terms of scientific determinism as formulated by politicians (read Stalist behaviourists and Hitler's misunderstanding of even basic laws of inherited traits).<br />The one really strange thing (frankly wierd in my estimation) is the sometimes emergent thesis that the power of the state to kill and take away rights has been a function of the growth of science and ideology which \\"disregards the traditional Judeao-Christian notion of individual responsibility.\\" <br />Although Johnston asserts this from time to time he never really goes beyond to prove it. Among other things he never defines what this notion of \\"personal responsibility\\" is, where it comes from and how it manifests itself. If we do not know what it is, it is difficult to know if we have lost it. Also, how does it explain the excesses of China and Japan in the 20th Century, two states with no Judeo-Christian tradition (or have they always been barbarian states? --- as Pat Robertson, the American Taliban, has argued). <br />The power of the state to wield total power has been greatly enhanced in the 20th Century, and therefore its power to kill. Horrendous societies and mass killings have however been with us before the 20th Century: how would one explain such horrors as the slaughter of the Cathars, of the Crusades, the Mongol invasions,the horrible excesses of the Hundred Years War and the slaughters in Chin Dynasty China? They have also been with us in the present where, as in Bosnia and Kosovo, individuals from two Judeo-Christian faiths receive absolution of personal responsibility directly from their respective Judeo-Christian faiths! Faith condones and actually encourages violence.<br />In all of the cases above, horror and state enforced mayhem either existed in Judeo-Christian societies or existed in areas where Judeo-Christianity never reached. That Johnson does not deal with these issues is I think, an even deeper knowledge that Johnston knows this point, although interesting, is ultimately nothing more than conjecture. <br />The true brilliance of Johnston is really in the details. His ability to look at different issues in a new light is really amazing. His style is novel, quirky (some would say highly idoesyncratic) and always refreshing to read. Whether you agree with him or not he forces you to think: \\"there is no moral difference between murdering a person because of their class or because of their race\\" --- statements like this strongly underline his main idea that Racist ideologies of Hitler and Mussolini are really even more disfunctional varients of communism. <br />After reading Johnston one realises that notions of mutually exclusive ideologies contain within then an underlying logic of increasing state power beyond the reasonable limitations of Parliamentary Democracy -- as such Naziism and Communism are both sides of the same coin --- Johnson does us a favour by pointing this out for us in cogent, intellectual, and ripping read. With prose like these one is liable to forgive most of his foibles (his defence of Nixon being an exception --- an extremely bad chapter, that should be removed).<br />All in all a very good read. Highly recommended with the caveats above.	2002-09-09
US	49580074	RZNDYYAMWQFR5	0060932902	730202454	Genome: The Autobiography of a Species in 23 Chapters	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	The New Sagan/ Gould	This book is really a gem. Maybe it is the best science read of the year for me. I bought it thinking that it was basically the history of the genome project. I was wrong and I am glad I was wrong. Ridley uses the mapped Genome as the motif for him to launch into a number of ideas associated with the Genome on every one of the chromosones. Since there are 23 chromosones there are 23 chapters and 23 themes. <br />Each chapter takes a gene on the chromosone and then links in into a general discussion on a whirlwind of topics in genetic research. He discusses thing like genes and fate. For example if you have the gene for Huntington-Chorea, you will get the disease --- there are no exceptions, you are well buggered in every second generation. But that is not to say that just because some characteristics are inherited that others are determined by genetics as well. Far from it --- and here Ridley describes how intelligence can and cannot be linked to genes along with other things like turning on and turing off serotonin levels inside onces brain. Nature. nuture? Well it is actually both -- there are no easy answers and for every answer a plethora of new questions are raised. That is the beauty and wealth of science and Ridley conveys the love of science magnificently. <br />Ridley goes the gamut and argues both coherently and with an appreciation for ideas that is seen in first-class science writers (he is really worthy of Sagan and Gould). <br />He is at his best in juxaposing ideas, describing the current thinking and reasearch, throwing in a cultural observation or historical anecdote and then letting you stew in thought. There are no easy answers for many of the classic questions of biology. One thing that could be said is simply that the old idea that there was on winner in the debate of nature vs. nuture is dead. You would have to be brain dead to 100% argue one over the other. <br />This is Science writing at its best. Ridley covers a very wide cross-section of research and does it well. This book should be appealing to the general reader with no biological background, but it should also touch topics that even a genetic researcher would not know (his scope is that wide) --- and both would enjoy his excellent prose. <br />More Ridley books are in the offing for me. I must say that sad though the passing of Gould and Sagan are as great minds of science, Ridley is young and there is a lot more in front of him. If all his books are this good I will be buying every one of them.	2002-09-05
US	49580074	R17QHNUVCAGFC5	037570759X	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Simple Realism for the Common Man	Kaplan is one of my all time favourite travel writers and cultural commentators. His \\"Balkan Ghosts\\" remains a classic of the region and its sequel, \\"Eastward to Tartary\\" is full of descriptions that will allow people to gain an good understanding of the cultural rifts and tribal bigotry that underline the chaos in this region. <br />In \\"Anarchy\\" however, Kaplan steps out of his travel realm and becomes international relations professor in a series of essays (most published before). It is an area that does not totally fit him well. His interpretations of international relations, although pithy and well written are nothing that could not have been sifted from a good introductory book in international relations, especially if it was written by Henry Kissinger. <br />Kaplan presents a start manichean world where good intentions often produce outcomes bad for humans and where hard-boiled realism is the best proscription for understanding and reacting in human affairs. Some of his statements, such as that not all colonialism is wrong if it protects the rights of minorities, or that intervention is warranted only when moral imperatives intersect with national interest, are not new. Charles Beitz and Henry Kissinger offer good interpretations for both. <br />But the real flaw is Kaplans division of motive into the two mutually exclusive forms of national interest and moral imperative. The two are not always necessarily different. Many times they are different sides of the same coin with many people in western countries seeing it as in their national interest to intervene for a moral purpose --- as most people viewed the intervention in Kosovo. Military force prevailed in persuit of a moral end. That is not to say that all interventions should or will be like Kosovo in the future. But it also means that narrow national interest far removed from the average person's everyday life is also not the only imperative for a successful foreign policy. Sometimes enlightened societiessee more imperative to national interest in the faces of the starving and those being slaughtered by Serb bombs than they do in perserving oil supplies. <br />The best essays are the two in the beginning. The rest are short and usually do not include enough to hold your attention (his essay on Special Forces is especially soporific). <br />On the other hand for all of those who love classics and the power of classical teaching to yield a superior understanding of world events, you will love Kaplan's love affair and well written appreciation of Gibbon's \\"Fall of the Roman Empire.\\" If you are thinking of spending money on this book it is clearly one that borrowing in the library or reading in the ... would probably be a better use of time and money.	2002-09-03
US	49580074	R9AM8O8SV36YW	1893554120	824181499	The Killing of History: How Literary Critics and Social Theorists Are Murdering Our Past	Books	5	105	113	N	Y	VERY GOOD POLEMICS: SOUND REASONING	If you ever wonder who killed truth and the whole nature of empirical history, even empirical science, Windshuttle has the answer and it is unequivocally the fault of the Post-Modernists. <br />If you ever wondered who exactly the PoMo crowd is, then Windshuttle will do his best to teach you, though he admits, even with the post-modern crowd, the hardest thing is arriving at a definition that everyone agrees upon: overly abstruse, opaque in their turgid writing style PoMo literary critics and social theorists have been creeping into the Queen of the Social Sciences --- History --- since Nietszche and Foucault. <br />Here in crisp, clean and logical style, Windshuttle makes a powerful polemic, wiping the slate clean and reclaiming traditional narrative, empirical history from literary critics and social theorists. <br />Some of the books highlights for me were:<br />1) The PoMo use of the the arguments of Popper, Kuhn and Lakatos, to reach a conclusion that purports, because science is relative then so is knowledge. Since these people are my heros I was very surprised to learn that their ideas could be used in a fashion they never intended. Windshuttle puts their ideas in their proper perspective. <br />2) That vast proliferation of any university course that has the word \\"studies\\" appended after it has always caused me concern; I have run into a lot of people, some from good universities, that have no idea about even simple ideas of science, morality and elementary history. But who lack elementary thinking skills (such as how to reason from a first premise, how to detect a fallacy or even understand the simple elements of science). In almost all of these cases, many of these people have graduated in one of the hodge-podge disciplines that seem to be proliferating in Universities --- disciplines that do not teach thoroughgoing knowledge in any discipline and therefore, more often than not, turn out graduates who have no credible thinking skills. <br />3) The fallacyof Great Theory History. Windshuttle reminds us by critiquing the Fukuyama \\"End of History\\" idea, that the goal of history is to make accurate descriptive statements about events in the past. That subscribing a single prime mover or explanation for diverse historical events --- whether they are the discourses of Marx and his economic determinism or the grand social theories of Victor Davis Hanson \\"Carnage & Culture\\" or Jared Daimond, \\"Guns, Germs and Steel\\" --- are merely poor attempts to pound history in the shape historians wants. <br />And that is one of the most stimulating and problematic elements of this book: I think that Windshuttle has as much problem with some people in his own discipline as he may have with others in the lighter \\"disciplines\\" of social theory.<br />Also, although I sympathise with Windshuttle and wince at the low number of people graduating from traditional historical disciplines and share his chagrin at the rise of Gender Studies, Cultural Studies, (and yes even Canadian Studies), I do not think that we are in danger of losing the \\"unappreciated\\" discipline or History. If I may use Canada as an example, in this least patriotic of societies, Canadians remain largely ignorant of their own history, moreover the ideas of the PoMoists fit in well with the state ideology of Multiculturalism (laudable but flawed). Recently however Canada has had an explosion of interest in her own history --- military and political, and history from the ground up (history of minorities and their contribution to the country) --- all of this has been at the cost of PoMo interpretations of the world, now seen as logically bankrupt. All of this research is traditional narrative research. <br />Also one look in any bookstore in either the US, Australia, the UK or Canada will yeild very few volumes of history written with a structuralist / post-modern slant, they are almost all traditional empirical narratives (and no one buys the books of literary critics).<br />Soalthough the debate between social theorists, literary critics and traditional empirical history may continue in the academic world it is certainly not much of an issue to the reading public, who continue to demand narratives based upon the old fashioned method of looking at empirical data in the form of records, sifting through known facts and documents, and then adjusting conclusions and narratives to objectively fit the facts -- and making sure that we are aware of our biases and deal with them honestly. Such is the proper role of history and as such it is alive and well.	2002-08-01
US	49580074	RMZ2R4HUSQ27	0522837271	73017217	Fear Drive My Feet	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Romance of the Coast Watchers	Quite simply one of the most exciting reads possible about one man on a large island (Bougainville) and the Japanese Army that gradually hems him in. <br />Plenty of heartstopping moments and many times after putting it down, you ask yourself... \\"what would I do.....?\\"<br />Jungle, deep inpenetrable, rough trails which traverse the island over high mountain ranges, waiting for resupply from air at night on a lonely hilltop, knowing that if you die, you die alone --- it is all here. <br />A shame books like this are not written anymore.	2002-07-30
US	49580074	R2WLJSEI77P2A	0060995068	183009402	Ordinary Men: Reserve Police Battalion 101 and the Final Solution in Poland	Books	4	133	154	N	N	Ordinary Men, Extraordinary Monsters	Browning has written a very important book. He looks at the Reserve Police Battalion 101 from Hamburg made up of mostly middle-aged men mostly of artisans and working class non-career police reservists. The kind of men that were either too old for normal front-line service and those who had no desire to persue a career in the police outside their role in this reserve unit.<br /><br />Browning uses incredible documentation from postwar German interrogations of men of this unit involved in wartime attrocities. He had access to more than 400 testimonies of the over 500 men that made up this unit during the war. As such he is able to analyse the actions and thinking in greater detail than most other German units.<br /><br />He describes the insidious use of these units as first guards on trains to transport Jews to extermination camps, to their eventual use in rounding up Jews in the Polish Ghettos, and their use as actual shooters in the extermination of whole villages.<br /><br />That this unit of 500 men --- made up of police reservists, not trained in combat, and seemingly tangential to entire holocaust programme --- could be directly responsible for the shooting deaths of 38,000 people and the transportion of 100,000s of thousands of others to their deaths, makes depressing reading indeed.<br /><br />Unfortunately, although Browning documents the horror of this representative small unit, he does not really answer his question of how a father with loving kids in Germany, with no combat experience could one day, be ordered to a village in Poland and in the small hours of the morning kill women and children just because they are Jewish.<br /><br />Browning may be begging the question when he says \\"ordinary men\\" --- one thing that may have made them far from ordinary was the corroding and infective influence of racialist Nazi claptrap that came to be accepted truth in German society in the years leading up to the war. Browning's book does not go into this question, andit is not covered by the interogators, nor certainly not volunteered by those who were interogated. It is however the central question of how an ordinary husband could walk up to children, women and old men and shoot them on the spot with little remorse or, at best, a casuistic reasoning. It is the central question that needs answering: how much can racialist ideology, condoned and encouraged by society, lead to turning ordinary men into extraordinary monsters. That is the horror of this book and one that one should be encouraged to find out the answer to.<br /><br />* Note this is not a light read. It will turn your stomach at times and wrench your heart.	2002-07-29
US	49580074	R3RMI8FMNVBO2N	1568360223	600103002	The Great Game: The Struggle for Empire in Central Asia (Kodansha Globe)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Great Game As Originally Played	This is one of the funnest books that I have read in a long time. The pantheon of characters is astounding, cut-throats, intellectuals, imperial spies both Indian, British and Russian. <br />Any of Hopkirk's books are a ripping read, but this one is particularly enjoyable. The section on the \\"Retreat from Kabul\\" of General Oliphant is one of of the more exciting chapters in imperial history. <br />The timeline of events takes us up to the adventures of Francis Younghusband and the entry of British Forces into Lhasa in the early part of the 20th Century. <br />Read this book if you love adventure, spying, intrigue all against the background of the vast expanses of the Himalayas and their varied peoples and their mystical way of looking at the world. <br />One is always imagining, what would one do in the case of the people described -- can you trust your guide not to betray you the locals, is he in the pay of the Russians, will you end up in a dungeon somewhere across the Oxus River? .... in the nether reaches of the then last unexplored regions of the world. <br />True imperial adventure at its best. If you loved the book Kim and the movie, The Man Who Would Be King, you will love this book.	2002-07-26
US	49580074	R2YNGDTCZAPKD4	0750924756	734222479	The Bloody Battle for Tilly	Books	5	5	8	N	N	The Very Sharp Point	While the Americans were engaging in a War of movement to envelop the bulk of the German forces in Normandy at Falaise the Canadians and the British were tasked with engaging the main German strength in Normandy. To keep the majority, and the best, fighting units of the German army from turning to block the American advance. Montgomery therefore had to push hard enough to keep German strategic minds on the area south of Caen. In the battle that followed hardened Panzer Grenadier, and SS Divisions lead by the most seasoned, battle-trained officers in the history of warfare fought against fresh-faced Canadian volunteer regiments getting their first taste of battle. In some units the casualties approached those their father's regiments had suffered in World War I. <br />Although the allies had superlative artillery support and control of the air, they faced an amazing disparity in other equipment: German arms were simply better and fired more quickly, more accurately and with a hitting power that could not be equalled in the immediate Normandy arsenal of the allies. The Tiger tank and the 88mm anti-aircraft-[gun]-anti-tank gun riegned supreme. In commanding positions, direct assaults on German postions around Tilly-la-Campagne garnered a frightfull harvest of death. Whole regiments were wiped out and Tout describes it with the eye of a survivor (Tout served in the Royal Armoured Corps during the Normandy battles). <br />He gives a good account of the Canadian action and recounts the battle honours of some of the oldest Canadian Highland and French-Canadian Regiments. He describes the relentless charge into Hell across Norman wheatfields of the Canadian Black Watch Regiment and its sudsequent annihilation. The unsuccessful and confusing night attack on Tilly by the North Nova Scotia Highlanders and the deadly game of cat and mouse played in abandoned iron mines between French Canadian Regiments and the 12 SS Hitler Youth. <br />As a previous reviewer points out this fighting was messy and confused. It was messy and like some WWI battles it just degenerated into a series of local actions until the Anglo-Canadian forces cracked the line. There were no massive flanking maneuovres; this was the anvil battle with the American hammer squeezing the forces. Equally important, and necessarily different. <br />But the task was achieved and the bulk of the enemy forces especially armour, never faced the Americans and were therefore unable to save themselves from eventual envelopment, it was a success in inter-allied cooperation between Anglo-Canadian and American forces. <br />As with most military history books, there never seems to be enough maps. Tout uses aerial photos taken during the battle and these are helpful but difficult to read. His writing style is easy and he really gives you a feel of what it was like to be on the cutting edge of the offensive facing an enemy better trained and armed.<br />It is also a little short on detail as to where and what the Americans were doing during this time. This is important because timing for all of the crucial operations in Tilly revolved around American movements. This would allow us to get a better feeling of the pressure on the Brits and Canadians to keep pushing, even at times when it was clear that frontal attacks against the well fortified villages, farm houses, orchards and hedges around Tilly were bound to have only a slight chance of success. <br />If you like military history narratives, this is a very good one.	2002-07-26
US	49580074	R3NGR7L21NW1ZG	0750924756	734222479	The Bloody Battle for Tilly	Books	5	4	7	N	N	The Very Sharp Point	While the Americans were engaging in a War of movement to envelop the bulk of the German forces in Normandy at Falaise the Canadians and the British were tasked with engaging the main German strength in Normandy. To keep the majority, and the best, fighting units of the German army from turning to block the American advance. Montgomery therefore had to push hard enough to keep German strategic minds on the area south of Caen. In the battle that followed hardened Panzer Grenadier, and SS Divisions lead by the most seasoned, battle-trained officers in the history of warfare fought against fresh-faced Canadian volunteer regiments getting their first taste of battle. In some units the casualties approached those their father's regiments had suffered in World War I. <br />Although the allies had superlative artillery support and control of the air, they faced an amazing disparity in other equipment: German arms were simply better and fired more quickly, more accurately and with a hitting power that could not be equalled in the immediate Normandy arsenal of the allies. The Tiger tank and the 88mm anti-aircraft-cum-anti-tank gun riegned supreme. In commanding positions, direct assaults on German postions around Tilly-la-Campagne garnered a frightfull harvest of death. Whole regiments were wiped out and Tout describes it with the eye of a survivor (Tout served in the Royal Armoured Corps during the Normandy battles). <br />He gives a good account of the Canadian action and recounts the battle honours of some of the oldest Canadian Highland and French-Canadian Regiments. He describes the relentless charge into Hell across Norman wheatfields of the Canadian Black Watch Regiment and its sudsequent annihilation. The unsuccessful and confusing night attack on Tilly by the North Nova Scotia Highlanders and the deadly game of cat and mouse played in abandoned iron mines between French Canadian Regiments and the 12 SS Hitler Youth. <br />As a previous reviewer points out this fighting was messy and confused. It was messy and like some WWI battles it just degenerated into a series of local actions until the Anglo-Canadian forces cracked the line. There were no massive flanking maneuovres; this was the anvil battle with the American hammer squeezing the forces. Equally important, and necessarily different. <br />But the task was achieved and the bulk of the enemy forces especially armour, never faced the Americans and were therefore unable to save themselves from eventual envelopment, it was a success in inter-allied cooperation between Anglo-Canadian and American forces. <br />As with most military history books, there never seems to be enough maps. Tout uses aerial photos taken during the battle and these are helpful but difficult to read. His writing style is easy and he really gives you a feel of what it was like to be on the cutting edge of the offensive facing an enemy better trained and armed.<br />It is also a little short on detail as to where and what the Americans were doing during this time. This is important because timing for all of the crucial operations in Tilly revolved around American movements. This would allow us to get a better feeling of the pressure on the Brits and Canadians to keep pushing, even at times when it was clear that frontal attacks against the well fortified villages, farm houses, orchards and hedges around Tilly were bound to have only a slight chance of success. <br />If you like military history narratives, this is a very good one.	2002-07-26
US	49580074	R1CKR52NG0FITG	0140432086	724452350	The Wealth of Nations: Books 1-3 (Penguin Classics) (Bks.1-3)	Books	4	58	76	N	N	A Classic Misinterpreted by Those Who Revere it Most	This Book is a classic. I would not go so far as to add it to the western Canon, but it contains the foundations of modern Economics. Its explaination for how economies work is still unsurpassed. Division of Labour, the invisible hand of consumer demand and the uses and mis-uses of taxation are all here. It should be stressed however, that this edition does not include books IV and V which concern the proper role of govt. It is also the section most ideologues forget to read and contains all the rudiments for a minimal welfare state and and active role for govt. in planning FOR competition, NOT the planning OF competition --- a very important distinction and one lost on those who see no positive role for the state in the economy.<br />It is unfortunately most used as a classic for those seeking a rationale for exploitation. Smith did not intend it as such and to see it as that is indeed to read it very selectively. The invisible hand is a useful interpretation for demand economics, but it is, like all other things only a description of market forces as they operate. It is not always the best way to organise everything as modern day ideologues would presuppose. It is of course the basis of business --- and it should be --- but Smith also has lots to say about how other economic factors operate in society.<br />One thing to make clear is this: Smith is not anti-State, as some ideologues in the US would like to think. He is balanced in his view of the state --- it is best left out of economic planning --- but it does clearly have an important role to play. The role of the State is to<br />1) create the conditions for the smooth flow of capital and its allocation into its most efficient uses and not to erect barriers in the process.<br />2) It also must necessarily collect taxes since the smooth and efficient operation of the state and the benefits its provide is in the interest of the accumulation of Capital.<br />3) The State also directly participates in the economy when projects which are obvious to the public benefit, but \\"which to no one would accrue an economic profit\\" --- he offers such examples as lighthouses and some roads and defence --- areas where there is an obvious public good, but to which no one would make a profit. Lighthouses are good examples, but like everything else in today's economy an interpretation for this could be made for universal health care and, of course, education; the mere fact that people do not have to worry about providing for education or health allows them to carry on in amassing capital in other endevours. Of course there is a slippery logic here but such is the rationale for the limited, but much greater role, the state provides in most developed economies outside of the United States.<br />4) Taxation policy is here as well. In the last book, Book V (not included in this edition), Smith describes the foundation of taxation and where it works best. He starts with the idea that \\"those who benefit the most from the smooth functioning of the state, should also be the ones who pay more.\\" While not a prescription for progressive taxation policies it is the right way to think about tax and certainly would never excuse preferential taxation policies for the rich (such as in the US) but could be used as a foundation for a universal flat tax.<br />Such a tax is perhaps the best, but as Smith points out, where and how to collect it is always the difficulty. He comes out more or less in favour of a consumption tax policy since it would approximate the wealth the people earn in the first place and would not, for example overburden companies or people with high income taxes when they may not have high earnings.<br />There is however little in here about social policy, but Smith does see it as the right of the State to, in his time, provide welfare in the guise of work houses (19th Century hell holes). But that was as good as public welfare got in those days so we can posit that Smith would have carriedhis logic somewhat forward and provided for some social programmes --- though the extent of them would be a subject of no doubt fierce debate.<br />Overall a book that every thinking person should have on their shelf. Like most things it has some warts over time, but it is still the logical Tome on which capitalism rests its bones. Not until Marx did someone really challenge its dictates --- Smith basically won the argument on most points. But willingness for those with an inability to think critically, to use this book as justification for the domination of the weak by the strong, has little to do with Smith --- it has everything to do with those who are looking for justification of Greed --- and Gordon Gecko and Adam Smith have little in common.carried his logic somewhat forward and provided for some social programmes --- though the extent of them would be a subject of no doubt fierce debate.<br />Overall a book that every thinking person should have on their shelf. Like most things it has some warts over time, but it is still the logical Tome on which capitalism rests its bones. Not until Marx did someone really challenge its dictates --- Smith basically won the argument on most points. But willingness for those with an inability to think critically, to use this book as justification for the domination of the weak by the strong, has little to do with Smith --- it has everything to do with those who are looking for justification of Greed --- and Gordon Gecko and Adam Smith have little in common.	2002-07-25
US	49580074	R4A6Z05SFROZJ	0061096865	155619329	Alien Agenda	Books	1	45	88	N	N	Lacks a basic understand of Science and Logic	I wrote a review on Marrs' conspiracy book and because no one could refute anything I said about the absolute inanity this guy writes, I got lots of arguments saying that I was wrong because I am Canadian (a very good argument that one I must remember it. Quite convincing! --- See the review on \\"Ruled....\\").    So let me keep this one short. If you are credulous and lacking any sense of critical thinking then you will like this book. If you have no idea what Science is, if you have never been taught to think critically or have an opinion grounded in logic, then you will also like this book. If you think that what constitutes proof if quoting other conspiracy sources (and looneys like David Icke --- barred from entry into Canada as a racist), then you will also like this book and even agree with it. That is not to say that Marrs might have it right. Anything is possible, but that is not saying anything, because if anything is possible, then there is nothing to recommend this book over any other. One has to ask oneself one question --- is it probable given the evidence and what we know about Science and Biology (and I am betting that not one person who thinks this is a good read has read very much science or even understands a basic biology textbook). The answer is of course an emphatic No! It is not true and those believing this will relegate themselves to the same mental class as redneck trailer dwellers and uneducated housewifes, afficianados of the Gerry Springer Show.    If you want to explore issues deeper than the poor second-rate mysticism Marrs offers, then please pick up some popular science books by Carl Sagan, Matt Ridley, or Stephen J. Gould. That will introduce you to a world infinitely more complex, much more difficult for us to comprehend, but ultimately more meaningful and rich in ideas which, like most things in life worthwhile, take some time to understand.     Science admits that there are no easy answers, just certain ways of evaluating and thinking about the world around you --- like using adequate and unimpeachable source material when you are trying to prove a point --- something Marrs never learned.     Poorly written with no research whatsoever and extremely poor organisation of his ideas it is a very good representative example of muddled thinking that is conspiracy theory.	2002-07-25
US	49580074	R1IVMMUE8F8GNB	085052492X	653959791	PRISONERS OF HOPE (Pen & Sword Paperback)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	The Last Big Chindit Operation	This is the story of the largest raid put together by British Commonwealth Forces in Burma in 1944. It represents the Apotheosis of Wavell's attempt to turn ordinary line regiments into independent, air supported brigades, ranging freely behind the lines to disrupt Japanese communication in Northern Burma, rolling up the Japanese flank from underneath whilst American-led Chinese forces pressed from the North on Myitkyina and its vital airfield.<br />The detail is tense and personal, Calvert was the youngest Brigadier in the British Army and this type of fighting meant that he personally participated in many of the unit actions. From the initial landing of the gliders at \\"Broadway\\" to their final withdrawal this was an epic of major proportions:<br />* Wavell reckoned on an average soldier fighting behind the lines without rest as having, at most, a three month capability before ultimately becoming ineffective. In reality they spent 6 months behing enemy lines in appaling conditions.<br />* From the initial blocking action of the railway, the action is intense. Calvert describes the actions of his East African, Gurkha and English County regiments troops in exquisite detail. We feel the quickening of the pace and our hearts beat faster as we come to realise that they are alone and there is really only one way to come out dead or wounded or alive --- the Japanese would be unlikely to take prisoners.<br />* Calvert covers the actions up the line as the brigade moves up towards the Myitkyina and their gradual wasting due to bad food, jungle diseases and incessent combat with Japanese troops. It is depressing to see these human skeletons that emerged at the end. In Calvert's brigade he emerged with less than 5% effectives when they were finally linked up with the Americans and Vinegar Joe Stillwell.<br />* Stillwell, although a tough US commander, really lets his Anglophobia cloud his judgement. His berating of Calvert and his Chindits betrays a gross ignorance about the real hell that Calvert and his men faced. Not to diminish the actions of Stillwell, but it really was beyond anything that Stillwell and his men, directly supplied and linked with base resources, ever underwent. My esteem for Stillwell, suffered severely. Calvert with typical British understatment offers us a good example of the stoic qualities of his race. Forbearance even after suffering horribly, is a lesson we can all learn.<br />Some may find Calvert's visceral hatred of the Japanese unappealing. But that to is an aspect of history and one that, given the circumstances, we may be able to understand.<br />This is one of the better personal accounts of the Burma War I have read.real hell that Calvert and his men faced. Not to diminish the actions of Stillwell, but it really was beyond anything that Stillwell and his men, directly supplied and linked with base resources, ever underwent. My esteem for Stillwell, suffered severely. Calvert with typical British understatment offers us a good example of the stoic qualities of his race. Forbearance even after suffering horribly, is a lesson we can all learn.<br />Some may find Calvert's visceral hatred of the Japanese unappealing. But that to is an aspect of history and one that, given the circumstances, we may be able to understand. <br />This is one of the better personal accounts of the Burma War I have read.	2002-07-24
US	49580074	R29CA6A1ARCWQP	0395925037	589962776	Mein Kampf	Books	3	49	96	N	N	Complete Rubbish, But By All Means A Must Read	What can one say. The person responsible for so much misery in the world. Who never contributed a single positive thing to the life of anyone. Why read his book? Well there is more here than meets the eye:<br />1) It is really impossible to understand the historical angnst gnawing at the entrails of a future mass murderer without knowing what motivated him. Hitler is the repository of every hatred and scapegoat idea that ever oppressed the mind of a human being or a nation (see present day Serbia).<br />2) It allows one to look at the future blue-print of destruction for Europe. Although nothing was inevitable about the Holocaust and destruction of European Jewry (until Hitler and his henchmen made it happen), it is amazing how much detail and rough blueprint emerges from his turgid prose. <br />3) It is conspiracy theory par excellance and shows how conspiracy theorists are able to take simple facts and inuendo and then turn them into mass edifices of supposed belief --- it is in fact the very antithesis of logical, scientific thinking. <br />4) It shows how, in extreme form (along with Stalin and Pol Pot et al), how people can be regarded by the leader as theory fodder: eager to advance a grand idea of German domination and racial purity (whatever that is?) ---- willing to pound people into theory and crush the lives of individuals, including women and children, under the wheels of history, all in the name of warped conspiratorial views of the world. <br />5) It is useful as a litmus test in benchmarking populist of today, from Mr. Pym Fortune to Pat Buchanan to Neo nationalists in China, Russia and the new Naziism of Jean Mari LePen. Of course, all are not the same. Some are more malevolent than others, but Mein Kampf offers a test in warped thinking and clearly allows one to make a distinction between the ideas of a populist and those of a megolomaniac. <br />----<br />I have had a copy of this book since I was 11 at my house. Of course I did not know how to interpret it when I was young --- it was a mere book written by an evil man. It is still a mere book written by an Evil Man, but it allows us insight in unmasking Evil and knowing its various guises. Mostly it allows us to judge between when people are engaging in merely shoddy thinking and when their thoughts turn evil.	2002-07-23
US	49580074	R368RECV4E5Y0Q	0750924802	305577673	The Savage Empire	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	Good Imperial History	Hernon continues with the third book in his trilogy of small 19 Century Wars. Besides being a good introduction to obscure, yet intensely interesting sideshows of the British Empire, Hernon takes a theme in each volume and in this one it is the notion of savagery that characterised these engagements. Savagery of the victor and savagery of the conquered. <br />Hernon tires to be objective as he cites the words of a contemporary British politician, calling the Opium War \\"one of the most shameful acts of agression in our history.\\" The actions of the Royal Navy in the 4 hour shelling of Zanzibar were no doubt directed at a despot and his supporters but that did not mitigate the effect of solid shrapnel and high-explosive against his helpless retainers (many of them children & women). The actions of early white settlers in Tasmania also makes depressing reading indeed and although intuitively one knows that the predations of conquering peoples are everywhere horrible, one cannot help thinking that the unabashed extermination of the Tasmanian Aborigine was one of the more barbaric examples of Man's inhumanity. <br />But this is no politically correct tract for new found leftist sentitment, or those that would believe that all societies waging war against elements of the British Empire were inherently noble.<br />The sacrifice and slave based societies of Africa where Blacks sold there fellow Blacks to other Blacks and Arabs was wiped out by British armed might. Of course citing the leitmotif of anti-slavery was very self-serving to Britain and increasing its markets. It did nonetheless have the resultant effect of wiping out the cruel practise. Also, although the British made money from Opium, it was never as much as those Chinese middlemen who acted as brokers. <br />So the exposition of this savagery, some unmitigated by any redeeming factor, is Hernon's central thesis. His backdrop is the obscure wars for empire where British and Imperial soldiers' bones lay in unmarked graves, in a jungle clearing, a desert, or in the waters off some unknown shore. <br />Ian Hernon's writing on these obscure wars is not just interesting, it is a good starting point for anyone wanting to get a better idea of how imperialism waged a war on \\"savages\\" (a term that seems to have been used as much in the 19th Century as the term \\"terrorist\\" is used nowadays) -- in far flung places: punative expeditions to far-off lands, fortified camps and naval blockades to isolate and capture insolent natives and unruly despots. Seems that some things do not change.	2002-07-22
US	49580074	R1XKTS6U1MNP0K	0345410408	950428116	Gallipoli	Books	5	35	35	N	N	The Classic on Gallipoli	Anything Moorehead wrote was golden, but this is arguably one of his best books. This has been reissued numerous times and it remains a classic. It is particularly good in its description of of the initial naval campaign and the general strategic overview. Although Gallipoli has rightly served as the emblematic battle where it is popularly thought that ANZACS were unduly sacrificed by the British in attempts at vainglory, Moorehead would be the first to acknowledge that there is no evidence that Australians were selected for slaughter over any other troops. The British (and most World War I strategist from all nations) were equal opportunity killers. In reality there were many more British troops committed, and killed, than ANZAC troops, and French losses were also considerable. Moreover the strategic aims were laudable. They were very nearly achieved. The bungling was not in the design, but in the fact that it was allowed to continue long after the jig was up, the British contained on the Penninsula, without a faint hope of forcing the straits with naval power. Moorehead, although an Australian, never bashes the British at all in this book. His exposition of Sir Ian Hamilton is also very incisive and offers a real glimpse into the mind of this man (a commander who felt for his troops, more than most in WWI) The fact that he was sacked, never to wield command in the field, is also testament to the fact that mistakes were made. Churchill's role is less clear. His initial idea was brilliant. He also did not want to commit land troops, thinking it too costly. He believed that the Royal Navy and her allies could force the straits and be shelling Constantinople within days.... And they very nearly did it. Unfortunately as Moorehead recounts, the political pressure of losing large, expensive battleships to mines was a price the British Cabinet would not allow Churchill to indulge and the pressure for a land based campaign therefore rose. It is really a pity because Churchill wanted one more chance to force the straits from the sea. There is every indication that he would have been successful and the costly land war averted. Plus ca change for Churchill.    PS: The cover photograph in this edition actually shows Canadian troops going over the top in a latter Somme Battle. Seems they could have easily found some original British or French pictures from Gallipoli itself??! I guess cover art was more important.	2002-07-22
US	49580074	R1B6HYGYOHHV2C	0060931841	288480034	Rule by Secrecy: The Hidden History That Connects the Trilateral Commission, the Freemasons, and the Great Pyramids	Books	2	47	84	N	Y	Believable to the Completely Gullible	Well where to begin with this one? In my quest for a conspiracy book that would stand up, against even common sense logic, Marrs, one of the giants of conspiracy theory, falls flat on his face. I bought the book on the assumption that maybe Marrs would come up with a workable definition of \\"conspiracy\\" or even \\"secret society\\" and then rigourously subject his examples to scientific rigour and logic. Maybe he would end up with a barely believable and thought provoking book. <br />Unfortunately this book will only appeal to those people who already have a paranoia that needs proving. <br />It is not even a particularly good read. Marrs seemingly starts with rough premise eg. Is the Trilateral Commission a secret society? He then produces a series of facts stating such banal things that this international organisation is made up of powerful people... who are international specialists. Well surpise on that one --- that is precisely why and what the organisation was founded for -- to study international society in order to stimulate cooperation and agreement across a number of levels. <br />The above example betrays a few traits of the muddle-headed thinking of conspiracy theorists:<br />1) Basic lack of any notion of political theory. Marrs had better read a few text books on International Relations. There the central question of IR is how does one resolve conflict in the era of sovereign states? One of the way to do this --- and it has been around since Hobbes and Kant --- is to discuss overarching levels of government to enhance cooperation and integration. The EEU and other international organisations are examples of this. Indeed it is one of constants of history that states emerge from county and regional entities. At some point with higher development of states it is stupid to think that one nation can 100% control its own destiny, it must cooperate and concede authority in certain areas to overarching political institutions (the UN, NATO, Red Cross, etc.) -- thatis also one of the central issues of US and world foreign policy --- how does the the US deals with this challenge. This is a subject for political science and economics to work out --- it has nothing to do with conspiracy theories.<br />2) Marrs is not just a TERRIBLE historian, he has no idea of the discipline whatsoever (no adequate footnotes, a bibliography that includes ONLY secondary sources of his fellow conspiracy theorists, no first sources, and, what is worst, he has not cited a single authoritative reference for any historical event he decsribes --- you will find no authoritative sources on WWI, WWII, Vietnam or the Korean War.... or any other historical event he describes). His understanding of both international organisations and the events that spawned them is not just facile, it is plain puerile. Marr's Cook's tour of every historical event and organisation may sound interesting (I would never say convincing, because I would like to believe that the average reader is smarter than Marrs would have us believe); eg, His idea that Woodrow Wilson was a member of secret society that tried to foist the League of Nations on the US is plainly, forgive me, retarded in the extreme --- read some books on this era Mr. Marrs!  WWI assailed the conscience of Mankind. It changed the way people thought necessarily, and forced them to look at the only real way of avoiding or dampening conflict --- a world body with the authority to censure members --- the League of Nations. It was before its time, but it is function of political and historical analysis, not secret societies. <br />3) Marrs obviously has no idea what constitutes science. He has not been taught to reason from a basic premise and subject his thoughts to scrutiny and empirical analysis. His ideas are all over the place. He can cite some facts, such as that the people on the trilateral commission are important and influential --- but not a shred of evidence that these people are engaged in a conspiracy. <br/>Such is a real waste of paper. Everyone knows that politcally motivated people join groups: I can predict that the National Republican Committee is filled with influential people --- I cannot prove that it is a conspiratorial organisation. And Marrs has not a single shred of proof that these organisations are conspiratorial in the sense that they \\"engage in the secret planning for the detriment of the nation.\\"<br />Marrs' logic is very contradictory: he calls upon us to be open-minded and consider all examples \\"however crazy.\\" In the next paragraph he then states that his task is not to consider groups like Heavens Gate or other such societies since they are cleary inconsequential and local. I cannot think of a more whacked out group than Heaven's Gate, so why not analyse them? He then ends up by the end of the book throwing in every mythical, mystical group or concept ever invented since Shirley Maclaine went on an bad acid trip. Atlantis, UFOs etc. The only thing missing is the land of Mu and the tooth fairy. <br />4) Unlike books like \\"Holy Blood, Holy Grail,\\" which have a somewhat interesting idea and analysis of a group that is developed with somewhat interesting historical detail --- you can learn something from reading Holy Blood! --- You can learn nothing from Marrs except how to think poorly about the world around you. <br />Once again a real good antidote for this book would be some popular science by Carl Sagan, a good read of any International Relations textbook, a good read of some history in general and a few editions of the Skeptical Inquirer. <br />As is so often the case with mystics and the crooked thinkers, Marrs thinks that a cursory look at a subject will reveal true knowledge and understanding. He is in fact treading on not just swampy logic but appears to lack even rudimentary knowledge of science, history or any other proper education that would innoculate him against the plague of gross mistaken thinking that he so admirably displays in this book.<br />I would challenge him to try to refute the above. My email is above.	2002-07-03
US	49580074	R2AZQAEWBEXXI8	0446391069	439686768	Leadership Secrets of Attila the Hun	Books	1	39	54	N	N	Do Not Waste Your Time: Low-Brow Business	Well... where to begin??? Wess Roberts is really a good example of an initial interesting idea milked and warped to horrible proportions; neither the historical metaphor nor the advice he gleans from it really ascends above the line of a comic book. Read the \\"Economists\\" review of this book and their trashing of its author -- who appears to be rather less than he appears. I can add little except to say that I bought it in a rush in an airport and then after the first page I realised there was something terribly wrong with this book (it is written for about someone who has a 12 year old reading comprehension level). <br />If you are a person who sees the world in a Manichean world view of \\"good and evil\\"/ \\"us and them\\" then you may ultimately see some kind of value in this book. All research however indicates that a successful business relationship is formed on the basis of honesty, trust and committment to a win-win relationship with the client. Without that fundamental understanding business and corporations do not advance. Those companies that practise the Attila mindset will ultimately remain Neanderthals and will condemn themselves to always being small-time, cheesy presenters with a life time of believing in the simplistic explanations for complex behaviour. <br />I would have given it a 0 if I could have. This book has the distinction of not even being worthy to grace the shelves of my personal business library. Spend your money on Drucker or even Napolean Hill. You will get a better return.	2002-07-02
US	49580074	R1NEKNGIM33PSA	0393322939	177646975	Redcoats and Rebels: The American Revolution Through British Eyes	Books	3	9	23	N	N	A Good Primer but Really Does not Answer the Questions	Ever wonder how the Americans mythologise their history. Read the chapter on the Boston \\"Massacre\\" and find out what really happened when a bunch of rabble-rousers in Boston confront and antagonise the British Army. Four people died and its a \\"massacre.\\" If such are the grounds for defining a profound historical moment, then American history could be accused of self-serving mythology on a grand scale. <br />This is a war that is really quite strange and I find quite at a loss to explain. It is American reaction against Tyranny, but tyranny is not that against those that would deprive one of one's civil rights --- in America it is a Tax that constitutes tyranny. What a lucky country where tyranny existed only in higher taxes and non-representation in parliament. <br />Who was right? Probably no one really. There was blundering on both sides. Those that took any action at all against the British were a singular minority. The rest either did not care or, when the issue was decided, lost all and went North to become Canadians or back to England. Too bad, just think if they had stayed: all of North America might now have the same high living standard as Canada, the US would have no problems with the entire concept of everyone having guns as a symbol of a progressive society. They would also possess a universal health care system (not to mention a real Queen as Head-of-State) --- not Hillary Clinton. <br />The mythology of the American Revolution purports that a Good was gained by succession from Britain. I and many other people can only see Loss. It is what America lost that Hibbert so admirably chronicles. <br />In other ways the book is highly flawed: it offers very little to presage the causes of the war; it omits whole segments of history and has very little on the war in the Southern States, and; despite the purported purpose of the book to show the English side of the war, there is little on the Tory majority or their contribution to the war, nothing on Quebec andthe British use of freed slaves, and very little on how this war was viewed in the grand scheme of strategy in London, having to take into account the actions of American allies France and Spain.	2002-06-25
US	49580074	R3T815GLP3LC5C	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	9	16	N	N	MUST HAVE A SHORT MEMORY....	I find it strange with all of the books now coming out based upon the presumption that history has been \\"forgotten.\\" Maybe I am a product of a good Canadian Education System which taught us all about King Leopold's lark when we were 12, but I thought this was all well known.     Also no one ever listen to Australia's rock band Midnight Oil before?    \\"...conquistador of Mexico... ...the Zulu and the Navajo... ...the Belgians in the Congo, Hey, Short Memory! Short Memory, Must have a, Short Memory\\"    And I think that is what is going on here. It comes as a \\"shock\\" to people that such attrocities were perpetrated in the backwaters of the Congo at the turn of the last century. The author does us a favour by reminding all of us in a good, ripping read about the inanity of King Leopold and his lackeys, from the higher-ups like H.M. Stanley, to those lesser govt. officials of \\"Heart of Darkness\\" fame.     It is not a attack on colonialism in general and to see it as such is projecting our values backward in time, though Hothschild needs to remind the modern reader of this more often than he does. It does show us rather that King Leopold and his morality was so out of step with the times that the other colonial powers, whose colonial systems were based upon less harsh (though perhaps equally) exploitive aims, had to take the colony away from him. In brief Leopold was so horrid that even the other colonial powers held their noses when they visited him in Laeken, Belgium.     Colonialism existed on a continuum and anyone familiar with the times will know that idealism and good intentions played as much in foreign policy implementation as the clearly manifest evil intentions of Leopold in the Congo.     The real builders of empire like Britian ruled, as an ideal, indirectly, integrated locals into the security and administation structure of the colony, and invested in their colonies while all the time taking profits from it. Rule of law was also developed and, although it might not have done locals a lot of good at the time, it was there as a nascent institution which sometimes served the newly independent countries well.    The Belgiums were on the other end of the scale: direct rule from the home country, no attempt to build up independent adminstrative and education branches, and therefore no attempt to integrate locals into the security forces of the time. It was simple and direct, rule at the point of a whip with no recourse to law. Strip the place bare and move on. Cut and run colonialism where the master never took the time to learn the language.     Therefore one would get a rather slanted view of colonialism if one thought that all colonies operated like the Congo. The Congo is noteworthy for one point alone, that it was viewed even then as a dysfunctional colony.	2002-06-25
US	49580074	R1W0G7UYRT7OH5	0440208025	63376284	Panzer Commander: The Memoirs of Colonel Hans Von Luck (World War II Library)	Books	3	7	32	N	N	...	Forget about judging that the man fought for the most morally bankrupt regimes in WWII...I picked this up expecting a good ripping read of tanks tearing up the county-side with gripping accounts of combat (a la Guy Sajer's \\"The Forgotten Soldier.\\" There is very little direct combat experience in this book. Moreover his writing style is dry and a little too removed from his subject matter at times. Whereas in other auto-boigraphies of War we should get a feel for the combat, the people, the will to live and the despair of battle. We get however dry narratives of journeys over hundreds of miles of territory without any detail. We get accounts of him travelling through Poland without any real account of his actual day to day experiences. When he really starts to get our interest with a nice anecdotal tale, like his POW tales and the fighting against the British & Canadians around Caen (much bloodier and tougher than anything the American's faced in Normandy) he breaks the narrative and switches to another front.<br />If you are looking for adventure Von Luck will leave you feeling like you have just eaten at fancy up-scale French Restaurant --- impressed but far from satisfied. <br />Now let's consider Von Luck's point of view as commander in an Army spawned from the most morally bankrupt ideology of all time. If life was hard in the Soviet POW camps he will ellicit little sympathy from most readers. No matter how hard, it was a holiday compared with Auschwitz and any lager that the Germans kept their Russian POWs. But Von Luck seems unable to make a moral connection and the effect of his internment does not force him to face a natural sort of epiphany and realisation that there is a reason why this has all this horror happened --- because people just like him, so called \\"gentleman soldiers\\" of the Third Reich, did not stand up to Hitler and stop the descent in racial murder and madness of their country. <br />It was far too easy to role along with the victories and think that just because Hitler won the early battles it is worth following him. <br />By the time he and other professional Army officers such as Von Staufenberg found out that they had hitched themselves to the wrong cart and that things were terribly wrong it was too late. Von Staufenberg had the courage to die for his failures. If Von Luck felt he had to fight then why no post war retrospective on what the war was about. Even if it was inevitable does he feel good that Hitler and even Germany was defeated? Does he feel good fighting for a regime based upon a pseudo-darwinian claptrap that lead to the extermination of several millions of men, women and children	2002-06-25
US	49580074	R3EO8KB6SHWZXF	0385500521	288543952	Carnage and Culture: Landmark Battles in the Rise of Western Power	Books	4	8	10	N	Y	Have Thesis, Will Make Facts Fit: Reductionist & Repetitious	I enjoyed this book to no end, but from the start the really annoying thing (and its gets more and more annoying the further you read) is his endless repitition of his thesis: <br />THESIS: The Western Tradition in war is the product of the Greek Polis and its continuance is manifested in the same ways as it essentially was during the good ol' days of Socrates, Plato, Aristotle, and whoever else they could fit around the table at the \\"Symposium\\": free citizen soldiers with certain rights to property, life, the ability to elect civic officials, and a scientific method of inquiry, all these qualities make better soldiers. Moreover they yeild a method of battle seeking to conclusively close with the enemy and defeat him in \\"shock battle\\" (I do not know how many times he uses that term). <br />Hansen offers good cases studies in battles, but he draws them out WAY TOO MUCH.....! Therefore his best writing is at the beginning, when he introduces his ideas, and at the end, when he is forced to reach conclusions --- in both areas we are presented a lot of new, and therefore non-repetative, information. <br />Some concerns with this book are:<br />1) Extremely reductionist. Every battle cited is further proof of his thesis. Even Cannae, where an army not of the western tradition the Carthaginians (an extremely contentious statement), defeated the Romans who were the very apotheosis of the western tradition. Hansen has an answer however: the very fact they lost the battle was indicative of the fact that the Romans were able to absorb enormous losses and then raise armies of free citizen soldiers again whilst those of Carthage were doomed to ultimately loose the war because they were ultimately an authoritarian state. Citizen soldier states win even when hey lose. The exception proves the rule as it were.... This is a supremely reductionist argument and one surprising coming from a teacher of the Classics (he must be a little short on his understanding of the Greek method of inquiry --- more Aristotle there Victor!)> Moreover, the Carthagians were at least as Classical Greek in their military tradition as the Macedonian Dictatorship of Alexander. <br />2) War And the Liberal Tradition: Hansen rightly asks the question of what would happen if two nations of the western, classical tradition fight. Some notion is seen in the modern battles of the Somme, Passchendale, and Stalingrad. Hansen also reafirms the liberal assertion that democracies do not fight, but he also admits that there is little room for error in the future if they even do... But he does not go into the implications of this theory. <br />3) Case Studies: His chapters on Salamis, Rourke's Drift & Midway are the best and although cliche at times, are supremely interesting and offer interesting perspectives on the nature of all combatants (I really liked his section on Midway and although I have read a lot on this battle, I found he had a lot new to say that was interpretive). <br />His worst chapter is the one on Tet, which seems almost tacked on the end of the book (he should lose it) and offers nothing new accept the currently \\"conservative\\" fashionable reinterpretation that America really did win this war. Yes it really was those damned liberal reporters and politicians that wouldn't allow the US to bomb the Reds and always limited US offensive capability. There is no mention about the fact that, agree or not, this was a popular war of liberation (waged immorally by both the North and the US); the utter mendacity of US Generals and soldiers in the field and; no notion that just and moral regimes supported by the people could and should really support and fight for themselves.<br />4) Morality: One point that Hansen states is that the western way of warfare, although more efficient, is no more moral than any other and much more bloody because it seeks decisive \\"shock battle\\" with the enemy. His examples seem to bear out his assertion about the amorality of the western military tradition. However with a system of battle that is so destructive it is incumbent on western morality (itself a product of the Greek tradition) to explain how morality in war is linked, how it can be linked, and how it SHOULD be linked. Moreover if the Greek Classical tradition produced both western morality and the western way of warfare, how are the two necessarily mutually exclusive as Hansen would have us believe. <br />I think that any discussion of western morality may muddy the water and would have lead to a much more complicated book, though perhaps one less repetative.<br />Even though I disagree with a lot of what Hansen says, I still would say that he has established a worthy subject with a lot of hard questions that need answers. As a heuristic approach, his book is a tour-de-force.... Now if he could only get a better editor for the next book, he will find a willing punter in me, one willing to plunk the US $ 35 ...down on his next work.....	2002-06-17
US	49580074	R288RM0H92Q95A	0684839857	481758019	Visionary Selling: How to Get to Top Executives and How to Sell Them When You're There	Books	4	10	10	N	N	SELLING TO TOP DECISION MAKERS	OK this one is easy.... Geraghty has compiled a very unique primer not just in selling, but in selling to top decision makers. The book's major spin is that one incorporates the corporate vision of the target client into one's sales spin --- by identifying with common visions and common ideals. The prospective client sees more of a common interest between your company and their own company and are (surprise, surprise!) more willing to plunk money down on the botton line and hire you/use you/ use your product/ services. <br />For that simple, but very effective advice Geraghty has created a book at least somewhat different from the standard sales tomes that litter the shelves in the low brow business section of bookstores (usually next to Zig Zigler). <br />The first half of the book articulates Geraghty's visionary Philosopshy and is the best. The last part tells how to incorporate the philosophy into actual presentation details. It is also good. There is a tendancy for the uninitiated or those with no sense of self-evaluation however, to present and merely mirror the image of the client company (I have seen this numerous times). What then happens is that one gets a simple syncophantic ramble from the salesperson doing the pitch. If the punt is as simple as the presenter a sale may result, but business people are rarely as simple and lacking in irony as some would suggest. More often a client who is brazenly and badly flattered can easily see through the scam to the two-bit sales person who makes such a pitch. <br />The real strength of Geraghty's sales approach is that it really adds another weapon to the the sales person's arsenal: when wedded with honesty, critical appraisal, and consultative selling style, visionary selling is a powerful tool. As such it should part of every current business library.	2002-06-13
US	49580074	R2R6UIGS6RII58	0304352322	206957202	Cassino: Portrait of a Battle (Cassell Military Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Succinct Overview	There may be many things that people can find wrong with this book: not enough perpective from the German side, not enough linking it to the general political strategies for the push in Italy, etc. It is however rightly regarded as &quot;The&quot; classic account of this battle. The book roughly describes the 4 phases of the battle that went on over 6 months.<br />1) The initial poorly prepared, and exhausted, American attack across the Rapido, how it was doomed to failure from the start.<br />2) The initial battle of the ridges behind the town and the rough complex night and day engagements on the ridge between the Indian/ Gurkha companies and the German Paratruops (now there is the very definition of tough fighting; Gurkhas and German Paratruppen).<br />3) The attack of the marvellously well-equipped New Zealand Division in the town and the brutal house to house fighting and close in urban combat that went absolutely nowhere.<br />4) The last phase where, after trememdous build up and a weaking of the German defences to shore up Anzio, British-Commonwealth, Polish and French troops pushed in and broke the line after some of the most intense bombardment of the war.<br />One should not forget that Majdalaney fought in these battles and has an eye for detail. He maintains that although the Germans were on the surrounding heights of the monastery, they were scupulous in trying to move out the civilians and priests and never violated the Abbey. But it was never necessary that they be in the monestary anyway since the high ground around the monastery more than met the German observation needs.<br />Majdalany also ties in the battle well with the events in Anzio and how the Cassino battle played in counterpoint with that on the beaches. I am sure that there will always be another 800 page opus on any battle, the product of our societie's obsession with the word processing software, that will offer ever more detail, but for a measured history covering all of the main points of the battle --- all in under 300 pages ---- then it will be hard to beat Majdalany.points of the battle --- all in under 300 pages ---- then it will be hard to beat Majdalany.	2002-06-12
US	49580074	R1IE7ZH0SFLI88	0060916575	372252081	Intellectuals:  From Marx and Tolstoy to Sartre and Chomsky	Books	4	14	17	N	Y	Highly Readable, Highly Enjoyable, Highly Flawed	First of all let me state that I really like the polymath approach that Paul Johnson takes on many of his books. There are few people that are as widely read as Johnson. I have read most his books, even ones that are out of print, and I will do so in the future. <br />Being enjoyable and being interesting is not the same thing as being both right and historically accurate. Johnson plays fast and loose throughout this book with his highly selective retinue of \\"intellectuals.\\" Also it does not mean that one should unduly discount Johnson because in some cirles he is the doyen of the new conservatives. Most of his opinions are not ideology driven, they stem from a deep attachment to the principle that people are more important than ideas (the very foundation of liberal democracy). Unfortunately he seems to forget this at times and he defends some rather odious individuals (his defence of Richard Nixon in \\"Modern Times\\" is one glaring case in point). <br />The salient themes raised in \\"Intellectuals\\" can be grouped as follows:<br />1) Biggest problem is the age old fallacy that fault of the man makes fault with idea. The two do not follow: just because someone is morally decrepid does not NECESSARILY make their ideas decrepid. If such a thing were so it would logically mean that people who were \\"nice\\" people also always had \\"nice\\" ideas. So while Johnson's speculations are great to read, you will never be able to pillory the ideas of Marx because he was personally fiscally irresponsible.  <br />2) Intellectuals are now the high priests of thought and of moral prescriptions for behaviour (taking over since the Reformation for the other discredited religious preists). Unfortunately Johnson unleashes his argument before he even defines what makes an intellectual. This problem of operationalisation is the one major hiderance in most of Johnson's books: if we do not know what it is that makes up an intellectual, how can we really know the real thing? <br />3) Intellectuals pay more heed to the \\"big idea\\" and reason than they do to actual empirical results and as a result are more ready to sacrifice individuals to an idea. Marx & Rousseau are the archetypical examples, but even people like Lillian Hellman and Noam Chomsky are more willing to defend the the use of force by decrepid autocrats and dictators than to defend the use of force by western liberal democracies. On this point he is \\"bang-on\\" and should cause people to pause to consider. It also puts him squarely in the English Empiricist camp rejecting the jaded claptrap of post-modernism.  <br />4) As a carrollary to the above, Johnson also sees that \\"intellectuals are more interested in the love of mankind as a whole than they are in the love of the individual in particular\\". As a result you get Rousseau sleeping around with everything that has legs and money and then dropping off his ... children at the local 18th Cent. orphange where the death rate was over 90% and; Marx loving the proletariat but not having two cents to rub together to feed his family (a sponger with clearly no sense of personal responsibility) and rejecting his own role in the birth of his son. <br />5) \\"Intellectuals engage in mendacity to a degree unknown to the common man.\\" This is where Johnson's research becomes selective and shoddy. He is rendering some very harsh judgements about certain people --- and doing it catagorically. Except in a few cases where the historical detail is widely know, it is supremely disingenuous for Johnson to render harsh judgement in cases where the jury is still out; Rousseau & Marx are well known but Hemmingway, Edmund Wilson, and Hellman are cases where such catagorical opinionising not based upon firm historical fact detract from the scholarly qualities of Johnson's journalism. <br />His pantheon of Intellectuals is highly selective and seems to reinforce his own conceptions of the personal failings of intellectuals. One could easily find examples of intellectuals manifesting sterling moral qualities. Whatever happened to Einstein or Orwell (two glaring oversights by Johnson of intellectuals with outstanding moral probity).  <br />His selective approach, at a certain level, betrays a certain ideological slide towards the currently fashionable, anti-rational \\"conservatism\\". In this sense Johnson's prose skirts dangerously close to advocating a \\"big idea.\\" In so doing it also, arguably puts him squarely in the very camp of intellectuals he publically excoriates.<br />But let's face it the man can write good history... and maybe writing good history requires historical license to produce prose this good.	2002-06-11
US	49580074	R39L68KZJS8IFN	006099486X	418849151	The Professor and the Madman: A Tale of Murder, Insanity, and the Making of The Oxford English Dictionary	Books	2	3	4	N	N	The Master of Prolix	(UK Title: Surgeon of Crowthorne) The initial story of Dr. Minor, is interesting and one worthy of being told. Unfortunately Mr. Winchester manages (like many of his books) to stretch this one out unduly. It is an unfortunate theme in popular history and one all too current that writers will look for a plucky or obscure theme that will initially hook a reader and then use their word processing software (and our patience) to stretch the thing out to ungodly proportions. In this case what better than a tale of an crazy American Surgeon traumatised by the Civil war and then incarcerated for murder in England. Add the unlikely possibility that this guy also found himself as one of the main initial contributors to the OED and you have a ripping yarn indeed. Unfortunately, even when you throw the penis debridement into the narrative, it still is a story that should run about 100 pages shorter. <br />Winchester repeats himself and also unfortunately dwells on events tangental to drag out the story. Although I have read other Winchester books, and will undoubtedly read more in the future, I am surely not at all tempted to re-read this book.	2002-05-24
US	49580074	R1MIJE6IFO5JRX	0850524865	55424509	Beyond the Chindwin (Pen & Sword paperback)	Books	5	6	9	N	N	Green Hell: Alone in the Jungle	Indo-Burma Front 1942: After being tossed out of Burma the same year, riven internally by arguments with their allies the US and the Chinese on the best strategy to persue, the British opt for a strategy of supporting the American push in North Burma. But with resources lacking they opt for a strategy of Long Range Penetration. The British will carry the war to the enemy by supporting columns of up to 200 men in 6 seperate columns. They will march through plain and jungle (most of it at night) and launch a series of hit and run attacks hundreds of miles behind Japanese lines --- they will be called Chindits after a mythical beast of Burma. <br />In theory this strategy seemed both efficient and strategically sound; small amounts of men getting a lot of bang for your buck. In reality the results were disasterous; columns first start to loose one or two people to the elements, then things get worse very quickly indeed; food drops from airplanes do not go as planned; encounters with the \\"Japs\\" lead to long marches to lose them; crossing rivers miles across leads to more loses for men who cannot swim. Columns split into ever smaller units until there are just 6-man units left. These then break into a free-for-all with all units told to do everything possible to survive. <br />In Fergusson's column alone almost half died or ended up as POWs (almost as bad as dying). Those that survived came into allied lines over the course of months. Some even found it easier to hike to China than to cross back into India --- and all for the result of blowing a single small steel span railway bridge that the Japanese no doubt repaired so the next train could cross safely on time. <br />All of this said the men who endured this trauma of marches in jungle, hidden ambushes, the possibility of a lonely deaths on a deserted trail next to the bones of others who went before them (many of their graves still unknown) is one of the more harrowing tales of bravery by men and a testimony to whatmen and women will endure when forced to endure. There was no evacuation for the wounded, one either coped or one was left behind on the trail for either unfreindly natives, the Japanese or both. The mere prospect makes one shiver. <br />It is also a good testiment to the mettle of British and Commonwealth Forces and their ability to stick together under one command. The Chindits were made up of men from the English country regiments, the Ghurkas, African Regiments but most all the members of the latter stages of the English Empire were represented in some form or other on this front from Canadians to Pathans from present day Pakistan. <br />The one bright thing that emerges is the mutual respect and admiration of the Chindits for the, mostly American pilots who braved every kind of weather to support the men on the ground. This feeling was reciprocal and as such represents one of the few examples of cooperation in a theatre that become notorious for irrascable incidents between the Americans and the British while fighting a common enemy. <br />There are many of my veteran friends that would disagree with me (especially those who served with the Chindits) but the fact remains that the strategic lessons of the Chindits remains limited in the extreme. What they teach us in courage however is rich and as such one will find it hard to put this book down.	2002-05-18
US	49580074	R2LQX1OT7EEWB2	0671790234	494868974	A Pocket History of the United States	Books	4	19	23	N	N	No Better Place to Begin	Being a Canadian not at all versed in the minutea of US History I decided on a solitary visit to the US one summer and, at the Smithsonian, purchased this book. Although my US history is certainly spotty compared to Canadian or British Imperial History I am well used to the &quot;Cook's Tour&quot; narrative style of this type of book; whether it applies to the US, Australia or India, it is impossible to encapsulate all relevant history in one text. How and what one does incorporate is important.<br />To see the text as politically motivated badly misses the point. People with extreme political blinders of the so-called &quot;right&quot; or &quot;left&quot; will always look for, and find, whatever they want to find. When reading history one finds out as much about the American people who consider this to be their history as one learns about the actual events themselves. The FDR Truman New Deal lives on and for people like me who only know FDR as the reformer he apparently was, this book only reinforces that view. The vagaries of the Robber Barons and Teddy Roosevelt's attempts to riegn them in are also wonderfully free of ideology --- old fashioned excesses of greed and lack of any positive government role being explanation enough. <br />On the other side of the coin there is also what an outsider would refer to as the typical &quot;pablum&quot; which every American was raised upon: Americans somehow suffering a great injustice at the hands of the British. An injustice that is really really not that self-evident: the Boston Massacre was not a massacre (the Americans absolved the troops and commander of any blame at the time); the &quot;battles&quot; of Concord and Lexington not being battles but being built into mythic proportions that persist to this day; and why did the Americans really get so rebellious about, of all things, a tax. Still, having said that, compared with comparable flag-waving narrative best-sellers in American history this book does not even rate.The authors even quite correctly describe the sound American drubbing and defeat in the War of 1812. Something that a lot of lesser Americans historians try to obsfucate. No unneccessary flag waving here.<br />The description of the vital American character is also included in the beginning chapters. The founding groups in the nascent colonies were vastly different from those groups who followed and built similar colonies in Australia, New Zealand and nearby Canada. The battle between dogmatic protestant religious offshoots and secular authority was a basic element of American society. Although religious groups remained strong (Commanger &amp; Steel describe the colonial Massachussets theocracy) their potential to deprive people of their liberty has always spawned a strong rational, reasoned opposition which ultimately wrote the constitution and established America as the strong secular nation she is today.<br />I would recommend this book to almost anyone without a narrow old-fashioned ideological axe to grind. The pre-1941 part of the book was originally written by pre-1941 people so necessarily includes their world view; the persistant use of the word, American &quot;Negro&quot; and &quot;savages&quot; reminds me a lot of the imperial literature of Kipling. One does not use such language nowadays and one is not influenced by it, but to try to retrospectively change the terminology is revisionism writ large, and one should always be on guard for such small-minded endevours. The book served its purpose for me and will serve as a jumping off point for further readings in US history supplied by its lengthy list of sources at the back of the book.	2002-05-18
US	49580074	R3HYH38UYVF728	0226320618	149681672	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	29	37	N	N	Liberalism Defined, Defended, and Rescued	Once again a classic that has had much of the goodness wrung out of it by political zealots who cite it but never really read it or have the historical understanding to understand the context in which it was written.<br />Written at the end of WWII, Hayek was worried about the rise of totalitarian governments in the world --- and he had first-hand experience in the vagaries of fascism. Hayek assumes that people reading his great work will know the historical context. Maybe in his day most people did. Now you have mindless people in the US (mostly, but not exclusively) calling<BR>themselves \\"conservatives\\" who cite the book as the main dogma for absolutely NO government intervention in ANY aspect of our lives. This argument is purely grounded in ideology and not any call to reason that Hayek intended, stated or believed. <br />Hayek is in fact a liberal in the original and correct meaning of that term (not how it is bandied about in the US press) and identified himself as such, citing all the rudiments of liberal democracy as his credo: individual liberty, minority rights, sanctity of public property, and, above all, a call to reason as a method resolving disputes. <br />In 1944 the world had been experimenting with two great dysfunctional political systems, communism and its ever more twisted cousins, fascism and naziism. Fascism was almost crushed. Its fallacies were all too plain to see. Communism was different story. The Soviet Unions role in crushing the Nazi beast it seemed that communism was a vindicated alternative hope to mankind. In western democracies WWII was an interlude following the depression and perceived collapse of any positive role for capitalism and the future to come. What would follow the war? State intervention had lessened the shock of the depression, even in America. Central planning had achieved a victory over Japan and Nazi Germany. State planning and Communism seemed to be triumphant. <br />Hayek was worried that people would strengthen their notion that strong government intervention in all aspects of life was the wave of the future. His entire book is an argument against such ideas and an attempt, largely proven, that active government planning of economies and peoples lifestyles is a bad idea that may (in some instances) lead directly to the blank mindless pit of Fascism and Communism. People should be careful when advocating a throughgoing role for central government in economies and in areas where they impact upon public liberties. <br />He states that there is no active positive role for governments in economies. This is made plain by Hayek when he states that the \\"state planning OF economies\\" should be avoided.<BR>States taking an active role in central planning of production, expropriation of industries, progressive taxation of companies and the planning of cities with no private input are all things that Hayek forbade because they COULD be the thin wedge of a future totalitarianism and lead to inefficient economies of scale. In short if carried to an extreme as in Soviet Russia and Mao's China -- they lead to Serfdom. <br />State planning FOR econonies and competition is, he describes, an honourable and old profession.\\" He is specifically advocates a positive role for the state in the improvement of capitalism and quality of life. Latter examples of where Hayek would agree with positive state intervention are in areas of, education, roads, infrastructure, public services which benefit industry, public health care. ALL of these measure prepare a society for a healthy environment where competition can thrive within. <br />It is debateable whether this book is dated. Hayek wrote for the times. As an economic liberal one has to agree with his general laissaz-fair policy. That appears timeless. <br />In other areas Hayek was wrong. Many post WWII governments experimented with strong central planning economies and did not become even mildly totalitarian. Canada, Sweden, the UK, postwar Germany all advocated and produced strong central governments and were paragons of liberty, certainly much more so than the US. Moreover they were able to abandon many pillars of state intervention by government fiat and the ballot box and return to a less government dominated economy. The election of Thatcher in the UK is the most striking example. <br />So as a text for right-wing, nonthinking ideologues this book will remain timeless. As an economic primer for why and how not to embark on central government planning Hayek will also retain appeal. As a dogmatic description of what happens when the government sets itself a positive role in the state it will fail to describe fully and account for the regenerative, cultural, and reason-based ideology that is liberal democracy. Ironic because Hayek was defending liberal democracy in the first place.	2002-05-18
US	49580074	RMJW3L0SBKYMC	0226320618	688914972	The Road to Serfdom: Fiftieth Anniversary Edition	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Liberalism Defined, Defended, and Rescued	Once again a classic that has had much of the goodness wrung out of it by political zealots who cite it but never really read it or have the historical understanding to understand the context in which it was written.<br /><br />Written at the end of WWII, Hayek was worried about the rise of totalitarian governments in the world --- and he had first-hand experience in the vagaries of fascism. Hayek assumes that people reading his great work will know the historical context. Maybe in his day most people did. Now you have mindless people in the US (mostly, but not exclusively) calling<br />themselves \\"conservatives\\" who cite the book as the main dogma for absolutely NO government intervention in ANY aspect of our lives. This argument is purely grounded in ideology and not any call to reason that Hayek intended, stated or believed.<br /><br />Hayek is in fact a liberal in the original and correct meaning of that term (not how it is bandied about in the US press) and identified himself as such, citing all the rudiments of liberal democracy as his credo: individual liberty, minority rights, sanctity of public property, and, above all, a call to reason as a method resolving disputes.<br /><br />In 1944 the world had been experimenting with two great dysfunctional political systems, communism and its ever more twisted cousins, fascism and naziism. Fascism was almost crushed. Its fallacies were all to plain to see. Communism was different story. The Soviet Unions role in crushing the Nazi beast it seemed that communism was a vindicated alternative hope to mankind. In western democracies WWII was an interlude following the depression and perceived collapse of any positive role for capitalism and the future to come. What would follow the war? State intervention had lessened the shock of the depression, even in America. Central planning had achieved a victory over Japan and Nazi Germany. State planning and Communism seemed to be triumphant.<br /><br />Hayek was worried that people would strengthen their notion that strong government intervention in all aspects of life was the wave of the future. His entire book is an argument against such ideas and an attempt, largely proven, that active government planning of economies and peoples lifestyles is a bad idea that may (in some instances) lead directly to the blank mindless pit of Fascism and Communism. People should be careful when advocating a throughgoing role for central government in economies and in areas where they impact upon public liberties.<br /><br />He states that there is no active positive role for governments in economies. This is made plain by Hayek when he states that the \\"state planning OF economies\\" should be avoided.<br />States taking an active role in central planning of production, expropriation of industries, progressive taxation of companies and the planning of cities with no private input are all things that Hayek forbade because they COULD be the thin wedge of a future totalitarianism and lead to inefficient economies of scale. In short if carried to an extreme as in Soviet Russia and Mao's China -- they lead to Serfdom.<br /><br />State planning FOR econonies and competition is, he describes, an honourable and old profession.\\" He is specifically advocates a positive role for the state in the improvement of capitalism and quality of life. Latter examples of where Hayek would agree with positive state intervention are in areas of, education, roads, infrastructure, public services which benefit industry, public health care. ALL of these measure prepare a society for a healthy environment where competition can thrive within.<br /><br />It is debateable whether this book is dated. Hayek wrote for the times. As an economic liberal one has to agree with his general laissaz-fair policy. That appears timeless.<br /><br />In other areas Hayek was wrong. Many post WWII governments experimented with strong central planning economies and did not become even mildly totalitarian. Canada, Sweden, the UK, postwar Germany all advocated and produced strong central governments and were paragons of liberty, certainly much more so than the US. Moreover they were able to abandon many pillars of state intervention by government fiat and the ballot box and return to a less government dominated economy. The election of Thatcher in the UK is the most striking example.<br /><br />So as a text for right-wing, nonthinking ideologues this book will remain timeless. As an economic primer for why and how not to embark on central government planning Hayek will also retain appeal. As a dogmatic description of what happens when the government sets itself a positive role in the state it will fail to describe fully and account for the regenerative, cultural, and reason-based ideology that is liberal democracy. Ironic because Hayek was defending liberal democracy in the first place.ced strong central governments and were paragons of liberty, certainly much more so than the US. Moreover they were able to abandon many pillars of state intervention by government fiat and the ballot box and return to a less government dominated economy. The election of Thatcher in the UK is the most striking example.     So as a text for right-wing, nonthinking ideologues this book will remain timeless. As an economic primer for why and how not to embark on central government planning Hayek will also retain appeal. As a dogmatic description of what happens when the government sets itself a positive role in the state it will fail to describe fully and account for the regenerative, cultural, and reason-based ideology that is liberal democracy. Ironic because Hayek was defending liberal democracy in the first place.	2002-05-18
US	49580074	R8ULLLSW0AILP	006092215X	750605926	George Washington's War: The Saga of the American Revolution	Books	4	2	8	N	Y	Leckie The Iconoclast	This history is both written to keep you continually interested in the subject matter... as all good narrative, non-scholarly histories should be. Leckie is a master story teller and here he uses biography as his canvas for the American Revolution. While weaving through the broad history he will digress as participants emerge from either side of the conflict to describe in interesting, flavourful biography, the personages and how they come to enter on the particular piece of canvas. <br />If you know about the American Revolution it is unlikely that you will learn much new in this text. It is made for people who are looking for an interesting primer or useful if you just want to review the war in active prose. <br />Still Leckie is a serious and iconoclastic historian. He, by and large, eschews the visceral, nationalistic interpretation of the era, and has no real time for arguments that the American revolution had anything to do about a struggle between Good and Evil: the relative moralism between the two countries had little to do with things like Liberty or Rights -- though those would emerge as the slogans of the time. America was essentially in conflict with one of the most advanced (though not so by our present standards) democracies in the world -- Britain. People were treated worse by some theocratic govts of the colonies than they were by Britain. Also Britain's parliamentary protection of the rights of French Catholics in Canada actually raised the ire and intolerance of Americans who found the Catholic religion a peril to be feared just to the North. Even at this time, Britain was also at the forefront of the anti-slavery movement --- a movement that they somewhat effectively used against the colonists. <br />No, as Leckie states, the tyranny that some Americans fought against was a particular variety, uniquely American -- it was TAXATION without reprentation. As Leckie points out, it would not have been a definition of tyranny from any other country in the world but for America. One would find it hard to see many countries in Europe, where tyranny was seen more in terms of arbitrary seizure of property and the right to life, fighting against such a tyranny. <br />Other traditional beliefs are also shredded: the Boston massacre was not a massacre ( an American Jury acquitted the British soldiers); the majority of the American population did not support the revolution (about 1/3 being active participants, 1/3 being Tories, and 1/3 indifferent); the British were the best trained soldiers in the world and not just defeated by superior Yankee \\"injun tactics\\" but a combination of American perseverance, and political bungling of the British, but, by and large, French and Spanish material help --- long before Saratoga.<br />Leckie seems to tell history really like it is and holds no punches. For an American he finds British valour and Yankee vanity (Franklin being a prima donna) equally easy to relate to the reader. <br />At the end of this book one is in even more in marvel of the US experiment and the US personality, how in the face of circumstances determined to make themselves a nation, to stamp into history their idea of Liberty. <br />As Leckie points out the US won but not all Americans won: many Loyalists eventually were driven out of the US and found their liberty back in England, or went on to found a country equally as free and tolerant under the English Crown in Canada.	2002-05-15
US	49580074	RO97NLI5JTBJ6	0140275142	211932010	Desert War: The North African Campaign 1940-1943	Books	5	41	41	N	N	Moorehead: A Forgotten Classic	If you are interested in the War in North Africa this is the read for you. It is absorbing and well written with a flow of a correspondent who is constantly moving to different parts of the front. I love and would recommend anything by Moorehead, but this is still a special book because he lived most of it. It is not however a history of the war. There are large chunks of the war that are not written about, time frames where whole battles are not directly refered to. That is because Moorehead was not there to cover the war. That does not detract from the flavour and action of the book. Moorehead is great in, among other areas, <br />* his description of the British Campaign against Italy in Ethiopia<BR>* his descrption of the early days of the war and also the Australian role in the war against Vichy France in Syria and then its role to nip a coup and Nazi support for Iraq, firmly in the bud<BR>* his description of the ebb and flow of battle that confused both sides, but ultimately was most boldly exploited by the Germans. The swirl of dust and whole lines of transport and tanks wondering either into or out of battle can almost be tasted.<BR>* the seldom written about race to Tunis at the end of the book, the sudden rush across Algeria and then bogged down fighting in Tunisia; tough battle that tested the Americans for the first time and one where, despite the public image, was still largely British in effort. <br />The book is also of note in that halfway through Moorehead leaves the front for India and covers the Scripp's mission on Indian Independence at the height of the Japanese invasion. I know of really few descriptions of the positions of all the major parties in debating future of India: Gandhi with his unrealistic notion of \\"sating the violence of the Japanese invader with the blood of pacifist Indians who merely submit to the bayonets;\\" Ali Jinnah's willingness to send millions of Muslim troops to support the British if Britain would grant defacto statusof the Muslim homeland of Pakistan. Somewhere between the two was the ever boxing clever Nehru. Moorhead met all these men and interviewed them in detail. <br />Moorehead also relates the loss of other correspondents in the fighting. The constant weariness and grind of the campaign that had Britain in the fighting for more than 3 years is apparent and there is a heartrending description of a British Tommy experiencing too much of the constant slogging and pounding of battle and not caring, in desperation, leads a forlorn attack in what was obviously a case of suicide.<br />This is one of the best books on WWII and war that I have ever read... and I may have read over 1000 since my early teens.	2002-05-15
US	49580074	R1V5JWAWUC3LZD	0812216555	47310672	The Hundred Years War: Trial by Battle (The Middle Ages Series, Volume 1)	Books	4	45	47	N	N	A Sterling Effort: I Bought Vol. II	Sumption's history of this sordid and bloody conflict will be the defining opus of this era. In this first volume of 600 pages he covers intimately all aspects of the war's first 10 years. He is mostly skilled at both the economic and diplomatic machinations of the conflict, emphasising how armies were fielded and then supported. <br />His scope is grand and he covers events as far away as Scotland, Flanders, Britany, and the Popes involvement from the Avignon palaces. <br />His strategic interpretation is superb, without equal. He has an ability to get into the head of participants and show their ultimate motivation in fighting. Why particular courses were decided upon are also fittingly reviewed; why a campaign in Flanders? Why get involved in Britany? How did England ultimately expand and prevail in Aquitaine when their foothold was so tenuous? Why were the French completely unable to exploint a fundamental postion of strength by working with their internal lines of communication? All of these questions are answered in good detail. <br />There are no real weaknesses in this work but there are a few things that readers should be prepared for:<br />1) Sumption is not writing a biography of any of the characters and although we understand a lot of their emotions in the heat of dimplomacy and battle, we hear little about the individual idiosyncracies of both Edward III and Philip VI. We learn almost nothing about their respective sons in this volume, which is amazing considering the future role they played. <br />2) Although this is a story of battle and slaughter, we are largely spared the details of the minutea of battle, who fought whom, the real intricacies of the weapons involved and the fate of those who were turned to bones. Sumption leaves that to other military historians who have written hundreds of pages on individual battles. There are however amazing revalations here about Crecy which deserve to be noted; Sumption notes that the repeat regrouping and charging of the English lines was not characterisitic of a disorganised French attack. As such this contracdicts the traditional version of the French falling over themselves in the battle. In the end the longbow won the battle. No new surpises here.<br />3) There is little actual focus on how the war effected the peasant. Perhaps because we know so little of them, but Sumption's research is so exhaustive that he purposefully concentrates on the diplomatic, military alliance structures and their respective figures. <br />This was a major project to get through. I had to admit that times I did wander in my attention span. But the detail in the text is rich and his coverage of the impact of the war in Britany and the northern English Marches against the Scots, is something largely ignored by other historians of this war. <br />I have already bought volume II and determined read all future volumes as he finishes.... although at this rate it will be a total of at least 10 volumes to get throught this particularly depressing interval in human history.	2002-05-08
US	49580074	R30QB3CWBK4WIZ	0440136482	598516960	Holy Blood, Holy Grail	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Read but Set Your Skeptical Level for "High Power"	A very exciting and wonderful read. Very much a good representative example of conspiracy theories. It could be used as a text book case. The real interesting thing is that one is almost sure that the authors set out to manufacture something that would appeal to the gullible and those without even a rudimentary understanding of how to think clearly about ideas, history and reasoning from first principles. For those who can see this as their true purpose, the book is wildly exciting and has all of the good elements of a detective sleuth story, with convoluted plots, existing theories turned on their head, dark unseen powers manipulating the central characters, and plenty of bad guys. <br />The central idea is that the blood line of Christ is alive and well and reposited and protected over time by a group of secret societies, mainly the Rosecrucians. But the Knights Templar, Cisterian Monks and other secret societies are also given pride of place in this pantheon of conspiracy vendors.<br />The line of investigation and reasoning moves very well and for those with a bent for medievalism, you will love the book, with a lot of the basic historical outline being true. But one would never take it as serious history. (If you are interested in the Cathars one should check out Johnathan Sumption's \\"Albigensian Crusade,\\" a good read and serious history).<br />Some out there may actually take its contents seriously. The authors leave subtle hints throughout that they are pulling our leg and that is one of the joys of the book. In addition it is interesting to pick apart the reasoning and leaps of logic that are sometimes subtle and sometimes outlandish and funny --- eg, the supposed leaders of those that have been entrusted to protect the blood line.<br />For those who want a good read that plays with your mind, this is a good read. For those who are gullible enough to believe conspiracy theories in general, I serious recommend that they re-read it or, if still beyond then, add some serious reasoning and skepticism to your diet, by reading some Carl Sagan, Richard Dawkins, or Richard Feynman.	2002-04-17
US	49580074	R1AWT4ZPBNT69K	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	3	33	41	N	N	A Far Fetched Tale of Adventure	(Formerly written by myself in 1999)<br />One should really never say never, but... Rawicz' harrowing tale of travel across the Himalayas smacks of an overactive imagination. The circumstances and events he and his mates were able to conquer would be impossible to replicate without everyone dying, and implausible on historical grounds.<br />1)He consistently states that he tried to travel and average of 20 -30 miles per day walking 8-12 hours and assumes that he actually achieved such an average. It is impossible to travel through the topography of the regions he describes, esp. the Himalayan foothills and achieve anything more than about 10 miles on an exceptionally good day (on flat ground with good maps). <br />His average should have been about 8 miles /day. I know this since I have travelled with light pack through much of the area Rawicz describes. With a 16 kilo backpack in very good shape I was able to make an average of 5 miles across rough terrain --- and this is with enough food on established trails. Rawicz states that most of the time they were not on trails. <br />2) The group was pretty desperate, but why walk to British India. Surely it must have crossed someone's mind to try to find the forces of Chaing Kai Shek and get transferred to the western powers operating in Eastern China. It would have saved them a lot of walking. You might say, Well he didn't want to risk hitting the Japanese or Chinese communists. But if they knew about the communists or the Japanese then they must also has known about a certain western presence and military support for China, or at least been able to find out about the political presence from someone). It might be hard to find someone who spoke a language they understood, but certainly worth looking for.<br />3) His climbing descriptions of the trails in the Himalayas bear no relationship to the real conditions and belie and true description of snow conditions in the Himalayas at the time of year he crossed into BritishIndia. Without maps or guides and adequate supplies, in the 1940s it was just not possible. Moreover they should have been picked up by either a Chinese Nationalist patrol or Nepalese govt. authorities long before they hit the British (where exactly he chances upon them is not mentioned -- we have no geographic details to crossreference his story. <br />4) He describees wandering around what is surely the Taklamantan Desert for 8 days without water. In this environment you'd be dead in 2 days, even if you were an SAS hardman with all the survival techniques in the world you would still be dead. <br />5) Perhaps the most damning indictment of his story is the fact that he was never debriefed by British intelligence, merely &quot;given a new uniform and sent to Africa.&quot; What was his unit. The Polish contingent was also not in Africa, but battling up the boot of Italy. It is possible that he did join a British Unit, but since he states that his English was not good, it is unlikely the British would have assigned him with unit outside of the Polish contingent attached to the British 8th Army. <br />It is stretching the boundaries of credibility to believe this man walks from a Stalinist labour camp across most of continental asia (an area where the British and Russians, though allies, have traditionally quarreled) comes crawling through to a British hospital and.... surprise, surprise, no official from British Intelligence debriefs him or his mates. <br />Believe what you want, this is an interesting tale but as a betting man, I am sure it isn't true. As a piece of fiction it reads quite well. If you want good tales in the same genre read &quot;Fear Drives My Feet.&quot; About the coast watchers behind Japanese lines, or the &quot;Gulag Archipelago&quot; to know what being in a Stalinist camp was really like. Those are real historical adventure.	2001-10-26
US	49580074	R2USR4HITNDZWQ	0060931302	108696261	Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Probably the Best Biography, But Not the best Read	If you are considering any biography on Hirohito then this is without a doubt the best in either Japanese or English. Bix' research is thorough, original, penetrating and incisive. He is able to use the best available Japanese sources and compile a credible personality profile of Hirohito which allows one to really get into the head of this enigmatic head of one of the 20th Century's truly militaristic society.     Bix' argument is that Hirohito was in turn both a product and an perpetuator of a society built upon, militaristic chauvinism, racism, a distain for liberal democratic values and institutions and an austere emotional wasteland, where virtue was framed in terms of endurance, forbearance, and suffering for the nation and ultimately the emperor.     As such Hirohito is as much to blame for what Japan was, when he was born, and what it later become during WWII; a country largely devoid of logic and compromise in its foreign relations, where any concession was viewed as weakness and, worse, loss of face. Hirohito was responsible for crimes of commission and crimes of ommission in the conduct of Japan before and during WWII (a fact that is only surprising to some Japanese): he indeed did alternatively aid, abett and encourage the military, while at the same time harbouring poetic ideas of universal world peace and a notion that other Asian races were really \\"brothers\\"  who would eventually see the benefit of cooperating with the bigger brother of Japan. In truth these gentler urges rarely overcame others in favour of lording it over other Asians and although he doubted his own divinity, he saw it as necessary to make Japan strong and to subdue, democracy, marxism, and any other value or belief that did not support emperor worship. A notion that dovetailed very well with the Japanese Army and Navy.     When this policy ensured Japanese aggression, the death of 50 Million Chinese and Koreans, the barbarisation of the Japanese army by a bloody code of \\"bushido\\", and, ultimately the destruction of Japan itself, it was clear to Hirohito that the psychology of militarism was really not a path that Japan could tread again in the postwar years. However, an apology was not forthcoming from Hirohito, and is still not forthcoming from his son, the current emperor. It is this inability to look the past squarely in the face that still convulses the Asian region with other Asian nations having little love for Japan and absolutely no trust.     This is largely an academic book. You will not find too many sweeping historical passages which really grab and hook you for long hours. We are given detailed examples of Hirohito's private life, education and influential personalities who surrounded him. It is not a text on modern Japanese history and despite the title \\"Hirohito and the Making of Modern Japan\\" there is little linkage and detail of general Japanese historical events... that is not the scope of this book.     There is also, as is so often the case, a lack of clear maps and  name lists of influential people surrounding Hirohito, which change very often. Such a series of diagrams would have added more to the flow of the text.     I read a lot of narrative history (see my other reviews) but I would not read this book again if given a chance. The main reason is the real academic nature of the prose with Hirohito being the nexus of every event. As such I at times longed to be given tasty tidbits and morsels of historical information on other peoples, places, and events marginally described in the book. That is not Bix' purpose of the text, but it would have made it a much more ejoyable read.	2001-10-25
US	49580074	R1GNG5DHBKI0TE	0618001905	966326914	King Leopold's Ghost: A Story of Greed, Terror, and Heroism in Colonial Africa	Books	4	9	15	N	N	Forgotten History?	I find it strange with all of the books now coming out with the presumption that history has been &quot;forgotten.&quot; Maybe I am a product of a good Canadian Education System which taught us all about King  Leopold's lark when we were 12, but I thought this was all well known.   <br />Also no one ever listen to Australia's rock band Midnight Oil  before?<br />...conquistador of Mexico... ...the Zulu and the Navajo... ...the  Belgians in the Congo,      Hey, Short Memory!    Short Memory, Must have  a,    Short Memory<br />And I think that is what is going on here. It comes as  a &quot;shock&quot; to people that such attrocities were perpetrated in the  backwaters of the Congo at the turn of the last century.  The author does  us a favour by reminding all of us in a good, ripping read about the  inanity of King Leopold and his lackeys, from the higher-ups like H.M.  Stanley, to those lesser govt. officials of &quot;Heart of Darkness&quot;  fame. <br />It is not a attack on colonialism in general and to see it as such  is projecting our values backward in time. It does show us rather that King  Leopold and his morality was so out of step with the times that the other  colonial powers, whose colonial systems were based upon less harsh (though  perhaps equally) exploitive aims, had to take the colony away from him. In  brief Leopold was so horrid that even the other colonial powers held their  noses when they visited him in Laeken, Belgium. <br />Colonialism existed on a  continuum and anyone familiar with the times will know that idealism and  good intentions played as much in foreign policy implementation as the  clearly manifest evil intentions of Leopold in the Congo. <br />The real  builders of empire like Britian ruled, as an ideal, indirectly, integrated  locals into the security and administation structure of the colony, and  invested in their colonies while all the time taking profits from it. Rule  of law was also developed and, although it might not have done locals a lot  of good at the time, it was there as a nascent institution which sometimes  served the newly independent countries well.<br />The Belgiums were on the  other end of the scale: direct rule from the home country, no attempt to  build up independent adminstrative and education branches, and therefore no  attempt to integrate locals into the security forces of the time. It was  simple and direct, rule at the point of a whip with no recourse to law.  Strip the place bare and move on. Cut and run colonialism where the master  never took the time to learn the language.  <br />Therefore one would get a  rather slanted view of colonialism if one thought that all colonies  operated like the Congo. The Congo is noteworthy for one point alone, that  it was viewed even then as a dysfunctional colony.	2000-05-08
US	49580074	RLPQXDWQKB0R8	1872197167	542227155	Nuremberg: The Last Battle	Books	1	45	183	N	N	Balderdash  &amp; Utter Rubbish	Were it not for the fact that David Irving cloaks himself in the guise of facts which seem to some to look like good scholarship, then this might be a valuable book. But that is like a scientist trying to prove there is  highly developed human life on Mars by citing reams of evidence concerning  the existence of microbes on Mars. This really is a trees-for-the-forest  type of book ---Irving puposefully selects sources, disregards those he  disagrees with, and concentrates on picayune details so that they seemingly  assume great importance in the case he is trying to make: who cares that  Hitler was having tea with a minor functionary on the day a decision was  made to exterminate European Jewry. The obvious reference being that a  subject of such importance being discussed on such a day would necessarily  entail the participation of certain higher party officials. It is like  saying that John Hinkley Jr. did not try to murder John Lennon because on  that day he was visiting his mother. But clear patterns of behaviour did  exist and they all point to the fact that European Jewry, and good many  more millions of innocent others were annihilated by a madman who is  rightly regarded as the archetype of evil.<br />Based on a clear pattern of  sheer and utter ideological terror developed and refined over the years it  is all the more amazing that he did not try to wipe out the Jews sooner.  Monsters and mass murders can not be considered rationale. Killing people  because they are different from you in some respect and then going home to  your loved ones and being a caring father is totally rationale to Nazis and  pathological killers.<br />Irving's mind and talent were, at one time,  obviously very good and I must say that as a child I enjoyed both his  earlier books &quot;The Trail of the Fox&quot; and &quot;The Destruction of  Dresden&quot; but he really is over the top on this one.<br />OK debate  whether the term &quot;holocaust&quot; refers to a special historicalevent, debate even whether it was 4 Million who died in the ovens or 14  Million, but never, ever debate that it happened....and never, ever forget  that it happened.	2000-05-08
US	49580074	R227YSJ2V0B4L8	0850527201	227781243	The Battle at Sangshak, Burma, March, 1944	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Account of a Forgotten Battle	For those who have read histories on the Battle of Kohima, this will appear at first anyway, as a small scale Kohima before the battle began. It is a short book and details the events leading up to the battle including  the overall plan, the approach of Japanese forces, and the disposition of  British Forces in Burma to meet the expected threat. Despite the fact the  everyone knew an offensive was coming, the British, including Slim, took  the view that the Japanese could only come one way. The forests for an  approach to attack British positions were seen as impassable by the High  Command. The British attitude is all the more amazing given the fact that  Japanese tactics and British experience in the Japanese way of war taught  one that the Japanese soldier was a master of infiltration, striking deep  behind at lines of communication and severing all support.<br />Sangshak just  happened to be the only sizable force directly in the way of two entire  (large) Japanese divisions. The battle that ensued is of Gunga Din  proportions with your standard motely collection of Soldiers from Indian  Army Paratrooper, English County and Ghurka regiments holding positions on  a hilltop against a vastly superior force, with little water, dwindling  ammo and mounting casualties.<br />This slender, and highly under-rated  volume is well written and is remarkably devoid of much of the Jingoism  that still afflicts many standard British accounts of their fighting  against the Japanese. Seaman himself faught at the battle, later escaping,  and he is very balanced in his recounting; he even goes so far as to  understandably praise the Japanese commander who rather  uncharacteristically, humanely treated the left behind British  wounded.<br />Seaman also makes some effort to use Japanese accounts of the  battle in interviews he had with several of his former enemy.<br />All in all  a good read and de rigour for anyone who fancies themselves and authority  on the Burma Campaign, or who just loves a good read about a desperate last  stand battle.who just loves a good read about a desperate last  stand battle.	2000-05-05
US	49580074	R16DBDDG2A76CV	0848805933	145175644	Cooper's Creek	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A Ripping Good Yarn by a Superior Writer	When I was about 11 my uncle who had spent 40 years in the Royal Canadian Navy, handed me slender volume called Cooper's Creek. Since I had no idea where Cooper's Creek was at that age I left in on my shelf where it  gathered dust for the next 25 years, and was lost in one of my many house  moves. <br />Over the course of the years I kept coming across some of Alan  Moorhead's books, on bookshelves in Canada, the UK, India, Hong Kong and  Egypt and even the United States. I happened to read another book of his  &quot;Gallipoli.&quot; He is a superb writer.<br />Cooper's Creek is exactly  the same. After reading more of Moorehead's work (including a history of  the North Africa Campaign) I resolved to find this book and read it. But  even in Australia it had been out of print. I found it in London, England  and hand carried it to Canada. The tale of imperial adventure warmed me  over a few long, cold Canadian nights.<br />In the 50s and 60s narrative  history was at its pre-postmodern highpoint. Moorehead's narrative flows  like a novel, there is plenty to get your teeth into and also interesting  tidbits. Also, unlike a lot of 60s historians Moorehead is not afraid to  pass judgment on anyone.<br />The folley and bravery of the Burke-Wills  expedition is recouted for all those unfamiliar with Australian history.  Attempting to map the interior of Australia was a dauting proceedure, and  was the equivalent of travelling twice the distance Lewis and Clark covered  overland in their American Odyssey. <br />Those unfamiliar with 60s narrative  may find the contemporary account of the aborigines to be paternal and  patronising, but that is projecting our values backward.<br />It is one of the  greatest true tales of adventure written, and ranks alongside the Scott,  Shackelton explorations in Antarctica and the first land traverse of the  North American Continent by Alexander Mackenzie. <br />A ripping good read and  well worth the effort to track it down.<br />Mooreheadby the way was a very  popular narrative historian of the 50s and 60s (a bit like a contemporary  John Keegan). He was also one of the foremost war correspondents in WWII  and worked for Newspapers in Australia, the UK and Canada.  An  autobiography of his life has just been re-published but I forget the  title.	2000-05-05
US	49580074	R2DBSBXTU24HX7	0028811062	897680668	A Connecticut Yankee in the 8th Gurkha Rifles: A Burma Memoir	Books	2	2	2	N	N	VERY GOOD MEMOIR	I have revised my review. I actually think that it was unfair to compare this to other bios of the Burma War. His American pespective is very refreshing.     In all the books that have been written on the Burma theatre of operations, this is one is perhaps not so stark and vivid as John Master's, \\"The Road Past Mandalay\\" or George Macdonald Fraser's  \\"Quartered Safe Out Here.\\"    It is noteable in two respects: It  details the training involved in making one an officer in the Ghurkas and  it also gives a good account of some of later fighting around Arakan and  final push against the Japanese in Burma. It is a vital memoir but it pales  in comparison to, Michael Calvert's \\"Days of Hope\\" or Bernard  Fergusson's \\"Beyond the Chindwin.\\"	2000-05-05
