US	49592031	R35FK4XMQH7PE0	0812570812	953091978	Rhapsody : Child of Blood	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Flawed By Its Flawless Heroine	Where to start?  _Rhapsody_ is a difficult book for me to review, because my thoughts about it are something of a muddle.  This does seem fitting, though.  It's a muddled book.<br /><br />I don't think that Elizabeth Haydon is a bad writer.  I think in fact that she has considerable talent, and that some of that talent shows itself in her worldbuilding, settings, and ideas; yes, many of the things in this book are stock fantasy, but not all.  I enjoyed the *concept* of a literal fire at the heart of the world and being reborn by passage through it.  The Axis Mundi was also intriguing to me--and I actually enjoyed the travels on the Root, although I think that despite all the page-space spent on them the passage of a large span of time was not well-conveyed.  How time works in this world is a fun little mystery.  The music-magic isn't a new idea, but has some promise regardless.  And the two main supporting characters were great, so much so that I'll probably get and read the sequels at some point just to find out what happens to Achmed.<br /><br />The shame here as far as I'm concerned is that the bright parts of this novel are considerably tarnished by its detracting elements... namely, a lack of plot and the great blazing Mary Sue that is Rhapsody.  The story is a meandering one, with no real antagonist in sight nor any driving purpose for the protagonists--once they're off Serendair and out of the Root, Achmed, Grunthor, and Rhapsody just kind of wander around, doing whatever.  I honestly have no idea why Achmed decided to become a king, and his ascent was, as others have mentioned, far and away too easy and conflict-free.  This is puzzling; even the really bad novels I've read usually have more plot than this.  I probably could have forgiven it in the end, however.  I've loved other books that seemed more accounts of the protagonists' lives than anything (Pamela Dean's _Juniper, Gentian, and Rosemary_, anyone?).<br /><br />Rhapsody is harder to get past.  I found her just painful to read about.  And you know, I think I could've overlooked the whole too-physically-perfect-to-be-real thing, maybe even the annoyingly over-the-top (and repetitive) reactions every character she meets has to her, if she had a single brain cell between her ears.  We're told that she's intelligent, but we aren't really *shown* that she is.  She has less common sense than the gods gave green apples, isn't exactly a shining conversationalist--and it occurs to me that even as 'selfless' as she's supposed to be, what with the adoring of children and whatnot, she comes across as self-centered.  What she wants and thinks is right is always what's important.  This might be easier to take if every other character didn't kowtow to her will within a paragraph or so.  It was hard to put up with the awe and worship shown towards this character when I was never convinced by the text that she deserved it.<br /><br />Add those upsides and downsides to a cluster of less major problems--including the prologue with its child sex and rather strange emotions, the events of which are pretty much irrelevant to the rest of the book; Grunthor's inexplicable Cockney accent; and the random side-quest with the wyrm--and you have, IMHO, an odd kind of story.  I also found it to be pretty slow-moving, unfortunately.  I can't say I'd recommend it as light, fluffy reading.  I do however think that the author and story both have promise, and might suggest picking it up at the library sometime; there are worse books out there, and you might find the secondary characters entertaining even if Rhapsody herself makes your teeth grind.	2005-06-30
US	49592031	R1K70RDEPURZ4A	044100069X	150984734	Deerskin	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Torn on What to Think	I find this a difficult book to review; I didn't hate it, didn't even dislike it, but was rather confused and disappointed by it.  I thought the early parts of the book were quite good.  When I started reading, I enjoyed the dreamy, fairy-tale quality, even with--especially with--its underlying grimness and sense of 'something is quite wrong.'  I'm familiar with &#34;Donkeyskin&#34; and went into the book knowing that the incest plot would happen (at least to some degree).  This didn't bother me.  It's absolutely horrific, yes, but fascinating in some of the same ways a Stephen King book can be:  I thought this was a sort of emotional horror story.  But even in that early section that I enjoyed, there were a few snags--lots of repetition, for one.  Which only got worse later, after Lissar has lost her memory:  I felt frustrated by all the clues dropped frequently about her forgotten past, because I hardly needed them.  My memory was still intact and I'd just read about it a few pages ago!  Also, the exact nature of Lissar's parents still confuses me.  Were they evil?  Then why did everyone love them so much, and why did they seem so good in the story of how they met?  How did they become evil later, if they did?  It's never explained.  And while I first interpreted their &#34;evil&#34; as severe selfishness instead, the book's climax seemed to support a &#34;pure villain&#34; reading of them.  Anyway, I could have lived with that and chalked it up to the nature of fairy tales, were it the only or main problem the book had for me.  It's not.  The main reason I stopped liking the book so much partway through is the whole puppies sub-plot.  Up until that I was still firmly interested in where McKinley was going with all this, but once Lissar gets to the puppies--it could be because I'm not a dog person, but this kind of annoyed me.  I'm not sure even a dog person would enjoy so many references to the puppies' bodily functions.  I quite liked Prince Ossin and the otherpeople Lissar interacted with, but all of a sudden the story was all puppies, puppies, puppies, and it turned me off.  The Moonwoman thing was much the same.  Where did that come from, and why was it there?  There's never really any explanation for these powers Lissar suddenly gains.  It's something that could have been interesting, but to me it seemed to come out of nowhere.  The less said about the climactic confrontation scene, the better, perhaps.  This review may read as if I just hated the book, since I found so much to criticize.  But that's not actually the case.  I sort of liked it... I definitely liked the beginning... and I may read it again, someday.  I don't consider the book a waste of my time and could recommend it to people who like dark fairy tale retellings.  Still, I might suggest that they check it out from the library first and buy it only if they love it.	2005-04-16
US	49592031	R3GBU1H06BWZY	0756402069	352643847	Exile's Valor (Valdemar)	Books	4	62	68	N	N	Hindered By the Mary Sue Element	I should start out by saying that I may have given this book more stars than it deserved, and was highly tempted to give it only three--the reason I didn't is that three seemed too low, just as four seems too high.  This is a difficult book to rate, because I believe how much a reader will enjoy it depends quite a bit on just how familiar they are with the world of Valdemar and with Mercedes Lackey fandom in general.<br /><br />Like several recent Valdemar books (and its own prequel, _Exile's Honor_), this one is set in a space of history which was alluded to in the early novels; now we have a chance to see just how the events unfolded, and get to know some characters--Selenay, Alberich, and Talamir, among others--in greater depth than ever before.  This can be a fun experience for the Valdemar fan.  I enjoyed seeing Selenay as a young Queen and Talamir as he is after the tragedy he suffered in _Exile's Honor_; the glimpse of Karathanelan and exploration of Selenay's doomed marriage were also worthwhile.  Alberich remains a colorful and interesting character.  I did think more space was spent on the game of Hurlee than it needed or deserved, which could have been better spent on plot... but then, I'm not a sports fan.<br /><br />These are the good aspects, and if you concentrate on those the book deserves four stars.  I should also mention that this wouldn't be a bad book for those new to the Valdemar series (though I'd suggest reading _Exile's Honor_ first if nothing else):  it's a light, engaging romp, and a decent introduction to Valdemaran governance--and if you haven't read many of the other books, you're less likely to be bothered by the many and myriad consistency errors here.<br /><br />This was one of my two main quibbles with _Exile's Valor_.  It appears that Lackey really, *really* skimped on her homework, and that no editor made any effort to clean up the mess.  As far as external consistency goes:  what happened to Karathanelan's nickname (previously 'Thanel,' not 'Karath') and eye color (Elspeth, whose eyes are brown, was previously said to have her father's eyes)?  And how exactly are two blue-eyed parents supposed to have produced a brown-eyed daughter anyway?  My erstwhile Genetics professor would probably have something interesting to say about that.  Also, _By the Sword_ clearly states that Karathanelan's father died *after* his son's antics in Valdemar and subsequent death--in fact, Thanel's hijinks were what caused his father's collapse.  So it's rather confusing to see Megrarthon kicking the bucket months in advance of the entire episode here.  Internal consistency doesn't fare much better; Lackey can't seem to make up her mind which of a pair of troublemaking students is a Herald-Trainee and which a Bard, and switches their roles twice!  First Mical was the Herald, then Adain, and then Mical again.  Shouldn't some editor have caught that?  Having so many errors makes the book look sloppy (IMHO) and causes some points of confusion where it openly conflicts with other volumes.<br /><br />The second quibble is another one which may be less apt to bother those who aren't so familiar with Lackey fandom:  the existence and predominance of the character Myste.  As other reviewers have mentioned and as Lackey has herself confirmed in the short story \\"After Midnight\\" (which appears in a DAW anniversary anthology), Myste is Misty Lackey herself.  She appears to go so far as to share not only the author's name, but also her physical build and possibly her general personality.  In fanfic this would be called a 'Mary Sue,' and probably looked down upon as self-indulgent.  I find it, if anything, even more self-indulgent here.  At least in _Exile's Honor_ and _Take a Thief_, Myste wasn't always at the forefront--but in _Exile's Valor_, she has the solution for *everything*!  Everyone relies on Myste to solve all their problems!  She's one of the heroes of the entire Karathanelan affair, never mind that this makes thelack of any mention of her up until the preface of _Winds of Change_ awfully hard to explain!  And she gets the male lead as her love interest!  Good gods, but that gets old.  I firmly believe this book would have been much, *much* better if Myste had not been in it, or at the very least if her role had been seriously downplayed.  Come on, ML--Selenay has a lot of scholars and Collegium Heralds at her disposal.  I found it hard to swallow that she or anyone else would really think to themselves that *only Myste* could possibly be able to untangle any of the knotty intellectual problems facing Our Heroes.  Jeeze.<br /><br />In short, this isn't the strongest Valdemar novel, and is unfortunately plagued by a host of minor problems.  However, it may be a fun read despite that--it depends on what the reader is looking for, and how much the errors bug him or her.  They bugged me a *lot* (obviously ;) but I still liked the novel enough that I look forward to rereading it in time.  My advice:  get this one in paperback or from the library if you like the sound of its story, but don't expect it to be either the best or the worst work that Lackey's ever done.  And if you decide to make this your first Valdemar novel, you may want to give the series another try by reading an earlier book (I would recommend the Last Herald-Mage trilogy) should you find this one not to your taste.	2004-01-21
US	49592031	R2X3GHDKLBX3KW	0399149422	685215703	The Cat Who Brought Down the House	Books	2	29	31	N	N	Not a Personal Favorite	I've been a fan of the Cat Who series for about twelve years now; I own quite a few of the earlier volumes, and have read every one of them, first to last.  Recently I've been rereading my copies--so I was particularly thrilled to spot _Cat Who Brought Down the House_ in my library, and I snatched it up with an enthusiasm that I might not have had if I'd been rereading the *later* books in the series and thus remembered their severe dip in quality.  Unfortunately, this book served as quite the refresher course for my memory.<br /><br />I realize that the focus of the series has changed somewhat over the years, and that I shouldn't expect a tight, suspenseful whodunnit; my quibble with the book thus isn't really its lack of a sound mystery.  (As with other recent installments, the mystery plot is very, very secondary to scenes and anecdotes about life in Moose County.)  What I have problems with is how *pointless* it all felt--not to mention how different Qwill and various other characters seemed from their old selves of even a few books ago, and how many of the characters in this book are relative newcomers to the series and in no way as engaging (IMHO) as the Old Guard.  The plot meandered here and there, not so much hard to follow as hard to stay interested in; and Qwilleran himself seemed almost unrecognizable.  Since when does he let everyone and their dog--literally!--into his home, when he once resented people wishing to come gawk?  Why would he become the special chum of Thelma Thackeray and spend so much time with her?  And speaking of which, why was it that in the beginning of the book no one seemed to know who Thelma was or whether she was even real, while in later chapters everyone Qwill talked to had something to say about her brother, her father, and her family history?  That sort of continuity error seems sloppy.<br /><br />And speaking of sloppiness, I question whether an editor even glanced at this novel.  Twice I found quotation marks where they hadno business being--such as in the middle of a dialogue sentence, as if the author had forgotten the character was already speaking.  Qwill's name is even misspelled once!  Meanwhile, there are a lot of little throwaway scenes that never amount to anything and aren't interesting enough to add character or flavor to the narrative (Burgess describing in detail the party that the kids on Pleasant Street will be having comes to mind); I found myself wondering in bemusement how this or that scene would later become relevant... and it never did.  The book might have benefited from having an editor more inclined to use his or her pruning shears.<br /><br />Finally, it's hard to imagine how this book contributes anything of lasting value to the series given how everything turns out.  (I can't say much more without spoiling the ending, but anyone who's read it through should know what I mean.)  I felt empty after reading it.  Granted, 'empty' is a better way to feel than 'completely disgusted,' which is how I felt after _Cat Who Saw Stars_, but given that I used to put down a newly-finished Cat Who book with reluctance because I didn't want to leave Qwill's vivid, lovingly crafted world, I can't help but be saddened by this development.<br /><br />Now that I've said all that, is there anything *good* about this book?  Well, yes... sort of.  Maybe.  It depends on what you're looking for.  Do you just want something light and quick to read, with a couple of engaging characters and a lot of mentions of delicious-sounding foods?  Then you might be fine with this.  It's nice, it's light, it's fluffy, and there's nothing wrong with that--so long as you go into it knowing what to expect.  Personally, I just can't recommend that anyone make this their first Cat Who novel (_Cat Who Could Read Backwards_ would be my recommendation there) or buy it in hardback.  I'm not sure I'd even suggest buying it in paperback, at least not without trying to find it at your library first.	2003-11-23
US	49592031	RIC91LZZAPTG8	0756401224	223452361	Joust: Joust #1 (Dragon Jousters)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Fun, Fast--But Not Terribly Original	I knew, going into this book, that I was probably going to find it similar to other things I've read; I'd heard a friend say of it, \\"Nice book, but Anne McCaffrey did it better.\\"  I decided to give it a try anyway, since I'm a fan of Lackey's and a terrible sucker for dragons.<br />I found that my friend had a point.<br />The main downside to _Joust_, in my opinion, is that it's so painfully similar to other books:  first to McCaffrey's _Dragonflight_ (I found Vetch's sudden reprieve from drudgery on the land his family had previously owned, and his introduction to life in the compound, *very* reminiscent of Lessa's Search) and then in later chapters to Jane Yolen's _Dragon's Blood_.  I know it's said there are no truly new stories under the sun, but this went beyond just using the same general themes--some of the scenes in _Joust_ echoed scenes in those other two books so strongly to me that I remain kind of amazed that Lackey got away with it.  The near-constant sense of 'Gee, where have I seen this before?' detracted slightly from my enjoyment of the novel.  It didn't help that ML recycled her own oft-used 'abused young person stumbles into a new life and discovers amazing talents that earn the respect of almost everyone' theme, either.<br />A secondary negative was that the editing job seemed a bit sloppy.  You should never find a sentence of dialogue followed by a random '%%.'  And whoever wrote the dustjacket summary ought to be smacked with a wet noodle--I kept thinking Kashet's 'growth spurt' was going to lead to some sort of plot twist involving the discovery that he was actually female, what with the jacket referring to him as 'she.'<br />However, these things aside, I really quite liked this book and found it difficult to set aside.  The pacing let the story move along quickly.  Ari may not have been fully fleshed out, but I enjoyed his scenes anyway; I'll be very disappointed if he doesn't turn up in the sequel!  The dragons themselves were fun to read about, the settings were well-described, and I found the pseudo-Egyptian culture of Tia engaging.  Too, I'm generally of the opinion that Mercedes Lackey is a talented author with a real flair for storytelling--and while I wouldn't say _Joust_ is as good as some of her earlier works (the Last Herald-Mage trilogy, most notably), she does show off her gifts here, and I'd recommend it to any fan of fantasy... at least in paperback.  As far as new SF/fantasy series go, one could certainly do much worse.	2003-07-13
US	49592031	R3VXMH226QZDSQ	0380809060	394892878	The Great Book of Amber: The Complete Amber Chronicles, 1-10 (Chronicles of Amber)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Come and Walk the Pattern	For the most part I'm going to reconfirm what other people have said about this book.  Namely:  should one buy it?  Oh, yes.  Ten books for under twenty dollars is a fairly amazing deal even if the books are only so-so... and the Amber series isn't so-so in the least.<br /><br />My favorite of this ten-book collection remains _Nine Princes of Amber_.  Of all, it seemed the book in which the most happened, and the book which was most self-contained; you get a fairly complete story within that particular novel, while many of the others come off as sections of a grand narrative rather than full tales in and of themselves.  (With an omnibus edition like this, that doesn't matter much, but I imagine it could be a bit of a bugger for the folks who read these as they first came out!)  The ending certainly begs for a sequel, but all the same, I find myself amazed every time I read it anew and remember just how much happened in that short span of pages.<br /><br />That isn't the only good book in the collection, though; far from it!  The four books which follow, and which complete the Corwin Series (the ten books are split into the Corwin Series and the Merlin Series, each comprising five), are excellent; they seemed less self-contained to me and did occasionally contradict each other in small ways, but by and large I enjoyed them.  Corwin is a great protagonist.  His sense of humor and innate style often had me grinning as I read.  The worlds and their system of magic were beautiful--the latter particularly intrigued me, and I can easily see why many modern fantasy writers say Zelazny was an inspiration to them.  Some of the supporting characters are also fun.  While Dara annoyed me from the get-go, I loved Random immediately, and I got a kick out of watching certain of the others change Corwin's perceptions of them from moment to moment.  For those first five books alone, this omnibus would be worth buying.<br /><br />The last five, however....<br /><br />I'm not sure whether it's just that Merlin isn't as engaging a protagonist as Corwin, or that the new settings aren't as engaging as Amber--both are true, in my opinion.  Maybe the problem I had with these lies primarily in that they don't take the series anywhere I wanted it to go.  Too many random people were thrown into the Amberite mix; the ability to walk in Shadow suddenly seemed common and overused; the Pattern lost much of its mystery.  I think, though, that what turned me off most about them is how sheerly confusing they were.  I just finished reading the final three for the first time, and I was left wondering what exactly had *happened*.  The plot moved too fast, jumped around too much, and had so many loose ends that it seemed to unravel as I turned the pages.  I still don't really understand what (or why) Ghostwheel was, why a certain thing happened to Coral, what Mandor's real game had been, where spikards came into everything... I hear there are some short stories which clear up some of these points, but it's a shame they weren't cleared within the actual book.  Or, alternatively, it's a shame this omnibus didn't include those stories.<br /><br />All the same, I would recommend reading the Merlin books, because even as confusing as I found them they were also interesting and provide one with another taste of Amber.  I personally find it better to almost think of them as having occurred in a different world, though--a Shadow of the real Amber, as it were, that we saw in Corwin's narrative.<br /><br />In any event:  this is a book well worth buying, well worth reading, and well worth rereading from time to time.  Come walk the streets of the One True City and learn why those who visit it through Zelazny's novels often love it as much as Corwin and his family do.	2002-11-01
US	49592031	R19LF26WFJJQ6E	0451458508	893895971	The Pillars of the World (Tir Alainn Trilogy)	Books	3	6	9	N	N	Not What I Was Hoping For	Like so many others, I came to know Anne Bishop's work through her Black Jewels series; I found the original trilogy spellbinding, and _Invisible Ring_ only slightly less so.  When I caught sight of _Pillars of the World_ on the shelves, I hastened to snatch it up, eager to read something by this new(ish) writer with such amazing skill.<br /><br />Unfortunately, _Pillars of the World_ left me almost entirely cold... enough so that I'd probably give it 2.5 stars if allowed.  Part of this is strictly personal:  from the beginning, I found myself rooting for the 'wrong' characters; I developed a fondness for a certain Lord and Lady of the Fair Folk, and found Ari's story only of marginal interest when they weren't in it.  As such, the direction the book took--particularly towards the end--was extremely unsatisfying for me.  (It didn't help that I felt a mild dislike of Neall from his first appearance on.)<br /><br />But while this certainly went a long way towards hindering my enjoyment of the book, it wasn't the only detrimental factor.  The main character never really showed what it was about her that drew the interest and/or affection of so many powerful people.  Dianna's shift from regal Lady to spoiled brat seemed forced, and Lucian suffered a similarly unfortunate if less drastic transformation.  As to the main villain... others have already remarked on his cliche qualities; I have to agree with them, but add that I think I would have found these easier to look past if it weren't for his name.  In the Black Jewels trilogy, the characters with the 'evil' names tended to be the white hats. Here, Bishop gave an name associated with evil (I drew a Hitler parallel immediately, once I learned the nature of his profession) to a black hat, and instead of making him more interesting, it seemed--at least to me--only to make him trite.<br /><br />I wish I could recommend this novel, but I can't do so without reservations.  I give it three stars mainly because I think, despite what I perceived as its flaws, it could be an enjoyable read for those who find themselves liking Ari and Neall more than I did.  Bishop fans may want to check it out, but I'd suggest looking for it at the library before spending money on a book that just can't quite compare with her other works.	2002-05-28
US	49592031	R1WUT84WJ63IK6	0380789035	337033298	American Gods	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Literature of the Gods	Having read Neil Gaiman's Sandman graphic novel series, along with his novels _Stardust_ and _Neverwhere_, how could I resist snatching _American Gods_ from the library shelf the moment I spotted it?  Of course I couldn't.  And now that I've stayed up far, far too late for two nights in a row to finish this dark and lingering masterpiece, I'm ready to say without reservation that it's thus far my favorite of all Gaiman's text novel-format works.<br />This is truly an ambitious story:  like Sandman, it deals with issues vital to humanity, and though the natures of religion and belief are its gist it's by no means limited only to those things.  It prompts one to consider what it really means to be alive, what price people might be willing to pay for peace in a chaotic world, whether anything in life is truly what it seems... and despite a number of historical (or faux-historical) anecdotes told as asides to the main story, it never really takes on the tone of a lecture.  Gaiman's art and skill keep the novel compelling and alive, and it can be appreciated both as a philosophical text and as a sheerly entertaining work of modern fantasy.<br />Its size may also work in its favor.  While I've enjoyed the other Gaiman novels I've read, neither of them seemed quite as epic or grand as the Sandman series--of course, neither of them were likely meant to.  _American Gods_ isn't quite on Sandman's scale, but it has a very satisfying sense of depth and weight to it.  Its conclusion was relatively satisfying and for once didn't leave me wishing Gaiman had gone just a little while longer.<br />I would absolutely recommend this book, particularly to those who've read and enjoyed Sandman; however, familiarity with that unrelated series is by no means necessary to understand _American Gods_.  I feel obliged to caution, however, that it does contain scenes with explicit sex, explicit gore, and occasionally explicit disgustingness.  Though such passages generally contribute to the atmosphere of the novel and serve the purpose of the plot, those who are particularly repelled by such things might wish to choose a different Gaiman tale.osphere of the novel and serve the purpose of the plot, those who are particularly repelled by such things might wish to choose a different Gaiman tale.	2002-05-28
US	49592031	R2Q70F89IHQV0M	0765342308	119454509	Briar Rose	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Left Wanting More	It was mostly pure whim which led me to pick up a copy of Jane Yolen's _Briar Rose_; I was familiar with the series it came from, having previously read (and loved) Pamela Dean's _Tam Lin_, but I had decided earlier that none of the other fairy tales that had been rewritten were of interest to me.  Still, _Briar Rose_ called out to me from the library stacks--and when I read the jacket flap, with its mention of the Holocaust, I thought that it might after all be worth a try.<br />I'm very glad that I finally read the book.  I devoured it in one evening.  It's a beautiful, haunting story:  Yolen raises the reader's curiousity about the grandmother to such a high point that you may not be able to put the book down until you learn the truth... even knowing that the truth is likely to be anything but pleasant.  The character of Gemma is simply marvelous.  Magda, likewise.  Becca... perhaps not so much, but that could my disappointment speaking; I wanted the story to be told from the point of view of Shana after the first chapter, so couldn't help but be disappointed by Yolen's narrator choice.  I really wanted to know more about Shana--and Sylvia, and Stan, and, and, and....<br />This is the main (really, only) problem that I had with the book: there's just not enough in it.  What happens with regards to Becca and Stan?  What's up with the sisters' marriages?  Where did 'Gitl' come from?  Etceteras, etceteras--it's easy to forgive the omission of certain details (including the Gitl thing), because it would be entirely unrealistic if we were able to learn *everything* about Gemma's past.  Still... the missing parts and dangling threads detracted a bit from the fairy tale magic of the tragedy for me.<br />However, I would still most definitely encourage anyone to read this book--including young adults, so long as their parents were handy to answer any questions that the narrative might inspire.  This is a fairy tale of the oldest kind, rather macabre and grim in places, and containing mature and sexual themes.  Yet its ability to give information and inspire curiousity about the Holocaust cannot be praised enough:  after reading _Briar Rose_, I not only have learned a new story, but I have developed a greater appreciation for the atrocities of Gemma's time and want to find out more.  If _Briar Rose_ can do likewise for children, that seems all to the good to me... and even if it doesn't, it's still a truly magnificent tale fit to horrify and (for lack of a better word) entertain.	2002-04-14
US	49592031	R2DGJ3JV0W74KV	0345362489	996644225	Diamond Mask (Galactic Milieu Trilogy)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Diamond Whose Size Is Its Only Flaw	It was Julian May's novels of the Pliocene Exile that first introduced me to her concepts of metapsychic powers and the Galactic Milieu.  I enjoyed them very much--but hesitated for some time before checking out any of the prequels of the Galactic Milieu Trilogy; I doubted they could be nearly as good as the others, lacking the hilarious antics of Aiken Drum.  And now I must confess to being a convert!  Aiken or no Aiken, _Diamond Mask_ and its predecessor won me over thoroughly.<br /><br />Imagine it:  in the not-too-distant future, humankind has learned that there really *is* life out there; moreover, that life down *here* is richer than was once thought.  Psychic gifts have finally been recognized, and are being trained to their highest potential.  New technology has made nearly everything we have today obsolete, and death has almost been conquered thanks to such miracles as genetic medicine and rejuvenation tanks.  However, some things never change... and the tendency of mankind to get into messes is one of them.  These ideas appeared in _Jack the Bodiless_, and continue to be brought to life by May's grand talent in this sequel.<br /><br />_Diamond Mask_ doesn't only have an intriguing premise and fabulous writing; it is also possessed of a plotline that's deliciously chilling without being frightening enough to give one nightmares.  The metapsychic monsters Fury and Hydra introduced in _Jack the Bodiless_ are still on the loose and as horrifying in their power--and their mystery--as ever, tangling now with entirely new characters.  Enter Dorothea Macdonald, a lady as interesting in her own right as any Remillard and another legend introduced the Saga of the Pliocene Exile.  While I can't say the Blessed Illusio was quite as I imagined her, it was certainly a pleasure to learn her story.  I look forward to its continuation in _Magnificat_.<br /><br />If the book has a flaw, it's that it's too short:  more information about Dorothea's early life would have beenwelcome; likewise, I wouldn't have minded a bit more insight into Jack and Marc's working relationship... or the lives of the various Remillards... or--well, all right, so it would have been nice to get more detail on any number of things.  Still, _Diamond Mask_ is a delightful page-turner that I'd thoroughly recommend to series fans and those new to May's Milieu (though the latter may wish to read _Jack the Bodiless_ first) alike.	2002-02-08
US	49592031	RYZ7MFCKT9J6J	0671319558	381908375	Beyond World's End (Bedlam Bard, Book 4)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not What It Could Have Been	When I first heard about this book, I had hopes that it would be something special.  Mercedes Lackey has been a long-time favorite of mine, but I've been a little disappointed in her most recent works.  I thought that perhaps the talents of Rosemary Edghill could balance this out, and together the two writers would come up with an amazing novel worthy of both.  Unfortunately, I don't think they've done so here.  Not quite.<br /><br />_Beyond World's End_ has problems.  Its lack of consistency alone costs the book a star; besides enough small errors to make me wonder whether an editor ever actually looked at this, there's a big issue with how time works.  Eric's been Underhill for twenty or thirty mortal years, yet the professors at Juilliard aren't surprised that he's back and looking twenty-five at most?  Ria Llewellyn's come back from healing Underhill for as many years, and yet when she returns to her company it's as though she's been gone for just a few months?  What gives?  This paradox took my suspension of disbelief by the scruff of its neck and shook it until the spine snapped, and that didn't make staying in the story very easy.<br /><br />Second, the first half to two-thirds simply disappointed me.  Too much text space was set up establishing details that were later unimportant.  Lackey and Edghill might as well have not bothered with the entire Juilliard storyline; it trailed off ingloriously long before the story was over.  And this first big slice of text is full of elements that readers of Mercedes Lackey will probably recognize.  Gorgeous young hero stuns everyone with how mature and powerful he's become, over and over again.  He meets up with a band of potential allies who, despite being powers in their own right, are oddly clueless and need the hero to tell them what's going on all the time.  (Really, the book would've been better in my opinion if the Guardians had just been left out.  I don't think it would've hurt the plot any, since they didn't seem to *do* anything.)  Everyone worships and fawns over him and his talents. Sound familiar?  I was getting _Lark and the Wren_ flashbacks all the time I was reading.  Now, I love Lackey's work, and find nothing wrong with a little wish-fulfillment now and then, but _Beyond World's End_ had me ready to yell, &#34;Enough is enough!&#34;<br /><br />However, there are saving graces which make this a book worth reading--a book worth buying, for that matter, though I'd wait for it to come out in paperback.  The subplot involving the psychotropic cocktail experiments was genuinely creepy and very well-written, with a solidness to it that seemed lacking from the rest of the text.  At least in that first half to two-thirds.  It's important to make the distinction, because after a point the story and pacing picked up enough that the whole thing finally started coming together.  Eric, Ria, and Jeannette became very interesting; the conflict was absorbing; I couldn't put the book down until I'd reached the end.  True, the climax did go very quickly and was a letdown after so much build-up, but if the rest of the novel had possessed as much energy and drawing power, it would've been one heck of a book instead of just a fairly good one.<br /><br />In short:  this is worth checking out if you've already read _Bedlam's Bard_ (or its two component parts, _Knight of Ghosts and Shadows_ and _Summoned To Tourney_) and want to know what happened to Eric & Company.  It may even be worth trying if you haven't, though without some knowledge of Lackey's urban fantasy world it would be easy to get confused.  But keep in mind that it isn't a story that is apt to draw you in or take off from the get-go; perseverance is needed to get the most out of this one.anything.)  Everyone worships and fawns over him and his talents. Sound familiar?  I was getting _Lark and the Wren_ flashbacks all the time I was reading.  Now, I love Lackey's work, and find nothing wrong with a little wish-fulfillment now and then, but _Beyond World's End_ had me ready to yell, &quot;Enough is enough!&quot;<br />However, there are saving graces which make this a book worth reading--a book worth buying, for that matter, though I'd wait for it to come out in paperback.  The subplot involving the psychotropic cocktail experiments was genuinely creepy and very well-written, with a solidness to it that seemed lacking from the rest of the text.  At least in that first half to two-thirds.  It's important to make the distinction, because after a point the story and pacing picked up enough that the whole thing finally started coming together.  Eric, Ria, and Jeannette became very interesting; the conflict was absorbing; I couldn't put the book down until I'd reached the end.  True, the climax did go very quickly and was a letdown after so much build-up, but if the rest of the novel had possessed as much energy and drawing power, it would've been one heck of a book instead of just a fairly good one.<br />In short:  this is worth checking out if you've already read _Bedlam's Bard_ (or its two component parts, _Knight of Ghosts and Shadows_ and _Summoned To Tourney_) and want to know what happened to Eric &amp; Company.  It may even be worth trying if you haven't, though without some knowledge of Lackey's urban fantasy world it would be easy to get confused.  But keep in mind that it isn't a story that is apt to draw you in or take off from the get-go; perseverance is needed to get the most out of this one.	2001-07-02
US	49592031	RT5AQWZLLCH12	0312874634	607551570	DoOon Mode (The Mode Series)	Books	2	40	43	N	N	Repetetive and Incomplete	Given how much I truly love the first three books of the Mode series, I never would have pictured myself giving the fourth, _DoOon Mode_, a negative review.  Yet that's what I find myself doing.  To be fair, this book suffers from several disadvantages:  longtime fans of the series have been waiting for it for years--some as long as eight, since _Chaos Mode_ came out in hardback in 1993.  My expectations were bound to be high after a wait like that, particularly when I learned that it was to conclude the series.  I can also imagine that perhaps Piers Anthony lost the feel of these characters, this reality; though continuity errors were few, _DoOon Mode_ didn't really seem in synch with its predecessors.  Now for what requires all those excuses.  For starters, I didn't get any sense of depth from any character, even Colene, which may have been partially due to the frequent perspective-shifting--and this time most of the perspectives were used a sum total of once.  I couldn't really get into the heads of these protagonists, only seeing a slice of the action from their view.  And while I'm on the subject of the action, it seemed awfully glossed over to me.  Many things were skipped, shown entirely off-camera; I got little feel for the wonderful variety of the Virtual Mode and instead have a hunch that Anthony was trying to cut travel scenes as short as possible.  Saving, mind you, for one Xanth cameo that seemed totally unnecessary.  The characters' conflicts weren't explored to any significant degree; plot threads turned up and were swiftly cut off, not appearing to serve any purpose in the meanwhile.  (If anyone can figure out the *point* of learning that Nona's joy cannot be depleted, or the motivation for her change of mind/heart with regards to her home reality, could you please explain it to me?)  Meanwhile, I also have problems with the amount of sex in this.  All of the Mode books are heavily into sex-related issues; it's to be expected, and I'm not complainingabout that.  What bothers me is that the sex seemed purposeless here, thrown in simply to have it present.  Even the new revelations about Colene's past trauma had the feel of something gratuitous.  And the sexiness of the young women was frequently described--something which was just the tip of the repetition iceberg.  Each new perspective brought yet another account of how the traveling party interacted, from a different and yet painfully similar viewpoint.  I lost count of how many times Colene was described as a &#34;vessel of dolor.&#34;  That, to me, was wasted space that could have been better spent on more depth of plot.  Which brings me to the most disturbing thing--while all of the characters do achieve conclusions, and those conclusions are marginally satisfactory, they're... well, shallow.  Given how much I came to care about Colene and Darius, I was terribly disappointed with the book's conclusion; sure, they got the ending we all knew was coming, but it was so anticlimactic that I was dismayed all the same.  (Not to mention that if there were a romantic scene that I wouldn't have minded seeing, it would be the consummation of that relationship--something which is entirely missing!)  I have no real sense of closure with these characters.  Their finale was quick, bland, and left a bad taste in my mouth.  It shouldn't be surprising that I don't recommend buying this one.  Certainly not in hardback as I did.  However, Mode fans will probably want to read it just to know how things turn out--and it *is* worth reading, for all that I've said; my opinion of it may not be the greatest, but I'm glad to have had one last chance to slip into the worlds of Colene, Darius, and their companions all the same.  Just don't make it the first Mode novel you read, and don't get your expectations too high.	2001-05-14
US	49592031	R22MZQOMUYRLHA	0441865038	157683246	Virtual Mode (Mode, Book 1)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Darkly Glorious Book That Pulls Few Punches	I sympathize with the reviewer who said that the first few pages of _Virtual Mode_ turned them off of the book.  I was given this novel as a gift when I was about eleven or so; I, too, read the opening passage and was disturbed into putting the book away, not touching it again for another year.  Yet once I really began to read it, I found myself drawn into a grim reality where even the wonders of magic cannot compensate for the horrors of the human psyche.<br /><br />I adore the protagonists:  Colene, the mentally and emotionally twisted young woman whose attitudes and perceptions have been skewed almost beyond recognition; Darius, a man whose rigid sense of honor threatens to strangle his chances of happiness; Seqiro, Prima, and all the rest.  Their conflicts and challenges may not be the stuff of epic fantasy, but they're interesting and can give one food for thought.  Most moving of all, at least for me, was the exploration of Colene's emotions, history, and motivations.  Anthony doesn't whitewash her situation:  she's a deeply disturbed individual, and one who has cause to be that way.<br /><br />I must admit, though, that as much as I love this book, I couldn't recommend that children--or possibly adolescents--read it without reservations.  The folk who've said that it's full of sex are right; further, there's blood, vulgarity, remembered rape, and a host of other such things.  While they add to the power of the story, they might (or might not) be considered inappropriate for younger readers.  I doubt my mother would have gotten it for me when she did had she known what it was really about... but then, I didn't have any problems understanding it and certainly wasn't traumatized by it.<br /><br />It's also true that the heroine is awfully young for all of the sexual situations she gets into, and that one could see the portrayal of women as sexist if one really wanted to do so.  I personally read and enjoyed the story without worrying about such things, but I think that anyone who says _Virtual Mode_ shows sexism just may have a point.  (Anthony *has* begun to disturb me in recent years with his fixation on the sexiness of very, very young women, but that's a subject better reserved for a Xanth review.)  If such things offend you, you may wish to give this a skip.<br /><br />Otherwise, I can say with enthusiasm that I feel _Virtual Mode_ to be a wonderful novel, one whose story and characters have stayed with me for years.  Readers who enjoyed Anthony's Incarnations of Immortality series may find this one especially appealing, as its resemblance to that saga seems much more pronounced than any to the perpetually punny Xanth.	2001-05-13
US	49592031	R3289447Z3ZI9J	0380784157	373198106	Competitions (The Blending, Book 2)	Books	3	8	9	N	N	A Decent Read, And Yet....	If you've ever read something that had an appalling number of flaws (particularly in characterization and pacing), romances that could come straight out of a bad dime store novel, villains who fit every stereotype you could imagine, repetition galore, flatness abundant... and liked it *anyway*, then you can understand what I mean when I say that I enjoyed this book almost despite itself.<br /><br />Sharon Green really must be a marvelous artist.  Her main characters are winsome and intriguing; her magical system, like the society she has built, is fascinating.  The ideas behind this particular book are interesting in their own right:  the heroes and heroines (as well as villains and villainesses) must each face tests of their elemental gifts that will lead to rich rewards if they win and certain destruction if they fail.  All the while, they're keeping an eye out for the machinations of the unscrupulous testing authority.  It's a very compelling premise, particularly for readers who enjoy stories involving elemental magic and its practice.<br /><br />It's just a shame that Green has chosen the method she has of presenting her world.  While some of the characters' relationships with each other are touching, one pairing seems to have no solid basis for existence and a second had me wanting to throw the book across the room in disgust.  (It did get better later, though.)  The dialogue is simply regrettable at some points--mostly made so by the one-dimensional nature of the villains... who almost all happen to be noble, and/or the parental figures of the protagonists.  I simply cannot believe that everyone except our heroes is evil, ambitious, and by and large essentially *stupid*, but that's what we're expected to swallow.  There were also small details that made me sigh; the animal 'friends' seemed like something straight out of Snow White, which at least was fitting with a set of protagonists who are innocent, selfless, beautiful and/or handsome, virtuous, powerful... the list goes on.<br /><br />However, I did enjoy _Competitions_ and have found the series difficult to put down despite its shortcomings.  I would tentatively recommend this book and this series to anyone who is fond of the fantasy genre and can put up with the negative aspects mentioned above for the sake of a truly (if puzzlingly) intriguing tale.	2001-04-05
US	49592031	R3HN383FIQDAJA	0380788098	765474313	Challenges: Book Three of The Blending	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Better Than the Last	As with the prior two books in this series, I tore through this one, finding it difficult to put down even when it was at its most exasperating.  However, I was not disappointed when I finished the story--as was not the case with _Competitions_.<br><br>_Challenges_ has everything its predecessor did:  lovable protagonists, a fabulous magic system, an interesting world, plus plots and plans and endless cups of tea.  It also has quite a bit of romance.  This time, though, the interactions are more plausible (even if I did groan at Jovvi and Tamrissa's 'sensual secret'); I actually found myself not repelled by the idea of Vallant and Tamrissa as a pair, and began to understand what she might see in him.  There's much less repetition; the characters have each undergone their individual trials, and we no longer see essentially the same tasks performed in five different perspectives.  Though the villains remain a bit stereotypical (and the insistance that *all* of the nobilit!y is evil continues), they've become much more interesting, and pulled off a twist towards the end that truly delighted me.<br><br>That's not to say that this is a perfectly written book by any means.  Its protagonists and antagonists continue to be either entirely pure of heart or entirely evil to the core, which is starting to become frustrating.  Also, there's enough obsession with sex that one might be turned off if they're more interested in the magical plot than the characters' relationships.  All in all, though, I really did enjoy it, and look forward on getting my hands on the fourth book when I can.  Anyone who's been reading this series and considered stopping after book two might want to give this one a try first!	2001-03-21
US	49592031	R2V887CVQ05YEA	0786902035	111528275	Elminster: The Making of a Mage (Forgotten Realms)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Confusingly Interesting	I picked up this book after being introduced to the Forgotten Realms setting by a friend who got me hooked on Baldur's Gate.  I was curious about the strange old man in the hat who went by the name of Elminster and seemed to pop up at unexpected moments.  I can't say this book entirely satiated my curiousity--but then, that's not the point.      Have no doubts, the story has flaws:  its main characters are, as has been said, distressingly powerful; it seems to be 75% fighting action to 25% plot; the supporting characters appear and disappear so quickly that we have no time to get a good feel for them.  Elminster himself seems rather unreal.  There were several opportunities for plot twists that weren't taken, which I thought was a shame.    However, it does well to keep in mind that this *isn't* a fantasy epic as such, and to expect any book based on an RPG to be as good as early Wheel of Time books or even the earlier works of Mercedes Lackey seems a way to doom yourself to disappointment.  Very few of them are deep and thought-provoking literature.  Instead, most--with this being no exception--would appear to be quick, fun romps through worlds of swords and sorcery, full of action and power, action and gods, history and action, action and more action... and what's so bad about that?  (Okay, so maybe a *little* less action might be nice.  Just a tad.)    _Elminster:  the Making of a Mage_ is a fine example of an RPG-based novel.  I was left wanting to read more about the Forgotten Realms and Elminster himself, which is probably part of the idea; I found it difficult to put down, and nothing that keeps me that interested can be all bad!  It's a decent book to start the series with, although readers unused to the style of RPG books (or who prefer their protagonists to be more on the puny side) might do better to begin with something else.	2001-03-18
US	49592031	R2NS44TZN6FO39	0345404319	177964798	Taltos (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	2	53	58	N	N	This Is the End?	If this book is taken as a stand-alone novel (which is difficult to imagine, as interwoven with its two prequels as it is), it deserves three stars.  If this book is taken as part of the Mayfair Witch series, it deserves no stars.  Therefore, I'm compromising and giving it two.<br /><br />What are the strengths and weaknesses of the book as a stand-alone?  Beautiful writing counts for it; Anne Rice is ever the talented author, and that shows through even here, in the weakest of her books I've read to date.  Mesmerizing settings, interesting characters, mystery, enchantment, the touch of the *outre*, sensuality, age and history--yes, those are all here too.  They're more tally marks on the 'pro' side of the ledger.  However, they can't really make up for the rushed, illogical ending, the consistency errors within the book itself, the disruption of plot and story caused by the constant jumping about from one set of protagonists to the other, and surreal pacing.  It's as though someone took most of the ingredients for a very good supernatural novel and mixed them with a few drops of castor oil, resulting in something that may be edible (or in this case readable), but leaves one vaguely uncomfortable and uncertain that it was such a good idea.<br /><br />That's nothing compared to its failings as the end of the Mayfair Witch saga, however.<br /><br />If you adore the change that began in _Lasher_, where the Mayfair history and the Mayfairs themselves showed signs of becoming secondary to the mystery of the Taltos, you might like this book just fine.  Because that's what we get here, multiplied tenfold.  There isn't really much about the Mayfair witches this time.  Rowan is *present*, but almost insignificant; Mona is a key part of the plot, but... she doesn't seem much like Mona anymore.  Mary Jane Mayfair is interesting and worth meeting, but she can't make up for the lackings in the other Mayfair characters.<br /><br />Then there's consistency--if _Taltos_ lacks consistency within itself, it lacks even more within the Mayfair series.  Do Taltos have souls, or don't they?  Do they reincarnate, or don't they?  Are they immortal, or aren't they?  Do they leave remains?  Do they not?  The answers may depend on which book you're reading, as do those to the questions of 'Is Michael a pervert?' and 'Is Mona big on wanting to be more adult, or wanting to be down with the younger witches?'  The character consistency is the worst of all; some of these people are almost entirely unrecognizable.  Others are absent.  None seem to live up to their promise in the original _Witching Hour_, or even in _Lasher_.<br /><br />Finally, the ending... there are just no words for the ending.  It's a cliffhanger--and as this is said to be the last Mayfair Witch novel, that seems rather pointless, and endlessly frustrating to the readers.  I have no idea what will happen to the Mayfairs after this; I'd like to know.  (I also have no idea what will happen to the Taltos after this, but to be honest, it would be hard for me to care less.)<br /><br />This is basically a book that I think should either have been written with an entirely different focus, and/or should at least possess a more conclusive ending.  Read it if you really want to know what happens after _Lasher_--maybe you'll even like it, depending on how you feel about the Taltos and the Mayfairs.	2001-03-02
US	49592031	RHGAM0EX20PPE	006105691X	114801696	Maskerade (Discworld )	Books	5	3	3	N	N	We Wear the Mask That Grins and Lies	Being a big fan of humorous fantasy, I've been in love with Terry Pratchett's Discworld almost from the moment I began reading it.  I adore Nanny Ogg and Greebo, Granny Weatherwax (to a lesser extent), Rincewind, the Bursar, the Librarian, and Death above all.  So it's really not much surprise that I loved this book.<br /><br />I think, though, that not only does it stand out among comedic fantasy books as all Discworld novels do, but it also stands out among Discworld novels!  For all that I don't know opera or Phantom, the jokes I did understand had me rolling, and the idea of Nanny Ogg writing a cookbook is so priceless that it would have earned the book four stars all on its own.  Toss in the translation of an opera verse and the little notes of maniacal laughter, and you've got enough funny stuff to leave a person gasping for breath between snickers.<br /><br />However, it's a valid point to say that this is a story that's probably much funnier if you have some passing knowledge of opera and Phantom; I had the feeling that I was missing out on chunks of it, and really, the plot with Agnes wasn't very riveting.  I thought the jokes I did understand more than made up for it, but that's a question of personal taste.  This is still one of the Discworld novels that requires the most background knowledge to make most of its hits; it seems full of in jokes, and if you're bugged by that sort of thing, you might want to try a different slice of the Discworld pie instead.	2001-03-02
US	49592031	R1SQEYSZC69UXZ	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Ford, You're Turning Into a Penguin.  Stop It	If you're looking for a book with a deep and meaningful plot, lengthy setting or description, or in fact much logic to it at all, keep going.  This is not the cult classic that you're looking for.<br /><br />If you're instead in search of incredible humor, a dash of surrealism, characters you'll never forget, and lines that it seems half the country can quote by heart, then you're in the right place.  Congratulations.  Pull up a chair and down these three pints of bitter quickly, before the world can end.<br /><br />HGTTG does have meaning; it does have messages--but no, the plot isn't really the point.  This is a story that starts off strange and stays that way.  It's hilariously funny, and its satirical elements are sharply intelligent.  It may very well make points that will stay with you.  But the reason, I think, that many people read it and like it is that it is simply hysterical in much the same way that Monty Python is hysterical.  Adams can't lose as long as he keeps pulling out one zany and unexpected surprise after another... and he does just that throughout.<br /><br />This isn't a book that takes days to read, so I'd recommend that anyone who's in the mood for something off-the-wall and humorous give it a try.  Who knows?  Maybe you'll join the ranks of those who know just what's so unpleasant about being drunk, what the secret to flying is, and the Ultimate Answer to Life, the Universe, and Everything.	2001-02-16
US	49592031	R3RF2SZCRYFAYU	0345397819	791939496	Lasher (Lives of Mayfair Witches)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Not a Stand-Alone	_Lasher_ marks a return to the magnolia-perfumed world of the Mayfair Witches, where incest, speaking with spirits, and the practice of psychic gifts are games the whole family can play.  Once again we meet Rowan and Michael, Aaron and Julien, Mayfair after Mayfair--and, of course, Lasher himself.<br /><br />There are a number of good things that can be said about this book.  Rice's descriptive powers remain at their usual height; likewise, the new characters she builds for us are strong, amazing, and intriguing.  (Some people love Mona, some hate her.  I for one like her plenty here--though in _Taltos_... well, that's material for another review.)  We're once again treated to a slice of the Mayfair history with its depth and richness.  The characters of Marie Claudette, Marguerite, Julien, Katherine, and Mary Beth are all fleshed out considerably.  And we finally learn what became of Rowan after her mysterious disappearance, and what will become of her now.<br /><br />However, though all of the aspects mentioned above make _Lasher_ worth reading for anyone who liked _Witching Hour_, it has many, many, many more weaknesses than its predecessor.  Yet again the pacing is clumsy; yet again the ending is abrupt.  Further, the characters no longer seem to be much like themselves.  I found that I no longer cared about Rowan or Lasher particularly; their sections bored me terribly, and I wished to skip on, to get back to the Mayfair history or the mystery of what is preying on the Mayfair women. Lasher's story lacked any attraction--it was more dull than anything else in the book had been (at least in my opinion), and finished the job of transforming this dark and powerful spirit into something almost pathetic in its childish cruelty.  At the final call, there just wasn't enough attention to detail in places--I was left wanting to know more, to know things that were hinted at and alluded to but which were never explained.<br /><br />Though it really is fairly dissatisfying, _Lasher_ gets four stars from me, primarily because of Mona; she, Ancient Evelyn, the historical Mayfairs, and the various 'cousins' ended up being the most interesting characters in this story for all that they weren't the main protagonists.  If you became hooked on the Mayfairs in _Witching Hour_, you'll have no choice but to read this--but be sure to brace yourself for a letdown.  You may very well enjoy it, but the dark seductive power that made TWH so intense and dramatic is largely missing here.	2001-02-16
US	49592031	R2C7006QQTAHY7	0394587863	470794658	The Witching Hour	Books	5	25	32	N	N	Dark Chocolate Laced With Arsenic	Rich and dark, sultry and humid, dusty and musty and perfumed with the sweet scent of decay... the story between the covers of _Witching Hour_ is all of these things.  It's a decadent toxin, luxurious and chilling all in one heavy blow.<br /><br />What does this book have going for it?  The better question is, what doesn't it have going for it?  Elegant prose--that's there.  Vivid description?  In abundance!  Strong characters?  You'll have to read it to believe it; not only are we presented with the magnetic couple Rowan and Michael in their modern-day psychic glory (and the reappearance of the intriguing Talamasca), but the history of the Mayfairs treats the reader to one tantalizing personality after another.  Sensuality?  If you know anything about Anne Rice, you really don't need to ask.  Suspense, horror, creepiness?  Oh, *yes*--these things coat almost every page, seeping into your mind like a slow contact poison.<br /><br />Good plot?  Good enough to keep me turning the pages long into the night, though I'll admit it faltered and dragged in places while zooming ludicrously fast in others.  An excellent ending... well, no book is perfect.<br /><br />In truth, all of the problems in this book seemed tied to the pacing and the ending.  The former was good, but not in keeping with the quality of the rest of the book; the latter seemed pure and simply too abrupt, too unbelievable.  It had an element of deus ex machina.  The change in Rowan's character seemed unbelievable to me.  Still, it's a good lead-in to the next novel in the saga, which is probably part of what Rice wanted.<br /><br />I give _Witching Hour_ five stars despite these faults due to its sheer spellbinding intensity and power, which I believe more than compensate.  This is a dense, thick, heavy book, rich to the senses and the mind; while it would make an excellent introduction to the works of Rice, or fresh new fare for those familiar with her well-known vampires, it isn't something I'd suggestpicking up for a light read.  Prepare instead to be mesmerized for hours by the intricate world and sense of mystery that Anne Rice will build for you.	2001-02-15
US	49592031	R1EQTKHSQE49MC	0451170385	887327600	Four Past Midnight (Signet)	Books	4	56	59	N	N	The Once and Future King	I never thought I'd pick up a Stephen King book.  The macabre is not an area which interests me; paper cuts produce enough blood to give me nightmares, thank you.  However, after watching \\"Langoliers\\" on television one evening, I decided I would take a peek at the source material just to see how it compared.<br /><br />I was honestly amazed.  King may be hailed as the Master of the Macabre, but this man is first and foremost a *good writer*--all four of his novellas in this volume drew me in and gave me no choice but to keep turning pages to find out what happened next.  It was a pleasant surprise to find so much wit and humor buried amidst the horror, and I can't help but be in awe of a man who can make you laugh out loud in a library one moment and make you hold the book out at arm's length with a mutter of, \\"Ew,\\" the next.<br /><br />Like so many others, I would call \\"Langoliers\\" my favorite--clever, engaging, and well-paced, it has a delightful coterie of characters and a Twilight Zone-esque plotline.  Next would be a toss-up between \\"Secret Window, Secret Garden\\" and \\"Library Policeman.\\"  I'm not certain why so many people dislike SWSG; Mort Rainey was perhaps the most strongly drawn character of the lot.  And while LP is certainly excellent, it had too much gore for sheer gore's sake to win an unchallenged second favorite slot.  (Some say that LP is nothing but perversion.  I would disagree.  Its scenario is revolting, yes; disconcerting, yes... and entirely too plausible in real life.)<br /><br />\\"Sun Dog\\" is probably the story that cost the book a star in my rating, for while chilling in its way and well-written by all accounts, it seemed the most shallow and downright absurd in retrospect.  (Yes, I take the licorice from \\"Library Policeman\\" into account when I say that.  At least the licorice had symbolism going for it.)<br /><br />At any rate, I'd suggest that any fan of psychological horror give this book a go.  I haven't been converted into a solid Stephen King fan myself, but I have a new respect for him and his talents after reading _Four Past Midnight_.en King fan myself, but I have a new respect for him and his talents after reading _Four Past Midnight_.	2001-02-02
US	49592031	R28AOM4KVXPMLJ	0345424603	867079822	The Masterharper of Pern (Dragonriders of Pern)	Books	4	38	43	N	N	A Good Read, But....	At the time _Masterharper of Pern_ came out, I was rueing the decline of the Dragonriders of Pern series.  After _Dragonsdawn_, the books seemed to lose a lot of their original magic and appeal; even _Dragonseye_, while certainly better than _Dolphins of Pern_, didn't quite live up to standard.<br /><br />The good news is that _Masterharper of Pern_ *does*.  This is a wonderful, vivid, emotional book, clear in detail, strong in character, and with settings one can easily get into.  It's a delight to get to meet the father of F'lar and F'nor; likewise, the insight on Fax and his ambitions is welcome.  Pern fans and non-Pern fans alike should be able to enjoy this one--it's not just another installment in the series, but a welcome and well-written tale in its own right.<br /><br />That brings me to the bad news.  While _Masterharper_ has all of the virtues I've named above, it has two major faults:  consistency and suspension of disbelief.  This book just doesn't match up with the earlier ones in some respects.  The character of Petiron here doesn't seem like the Petiron Menolly knew in _Dragonsinger_ (granted, age changes a man, but still...).  F'lon, while a fine man, does not seem to inspire the sense of respect and even awe that one can pick up about him in _Dragonflight_.  Robinton can hear dragons; why, then, was he so surprised to hear them again in _Dragonquest_?<br /><br />Which leads right into the suspension of disbelief:  Robinton, much as I admire his character, is *too good* here.  Not only is he a musical genius, not only is he polite and courteous and perfect in every way, but he hears dragons too?  Goodness, can't the poor man be allowed any flaws/lackings?  That's not the worst part, though:  I found that the ending scenes stretched my ability to believe beyond the breaking point, and this marred the book somewhat for me.  In fact, the last fifth or so of the pages seemed a cut below the rest; AM did her best work when she was showing us the historywe hadn't already seen, rather than history we knew from a new perspective.<br /><br />Still, when all is said and done, this is still a fine book that tells an excellent story.  Just be prepared to blink at it a few times if you're a long-time Pern fan... and if you're new to the series and more fond of flawed heroes than darned near perfect ones, you might want to pass this one up until you've read a few of its predecessors.	2001-01-15
US	49592031	R1MZDHNS24SES5	039609161X	517806394	Murder for Christmas	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Christie Turns Murder Into a Delicious Holiday Treat	No mystery written by Agatha Christie could ever be bad; even her worst is good, and _Murder For Christmas_ (or _Holiday For Murder_, the title under which I found it) is far from her worst.<br /><br />Ms. Christie's dedication states that she purposefully designed this story to be bloody--and so it is, but have no fear; the gore is not great, and it is handled with tact and a delightful use of familiar quotations.  Her characters will draw you in with their relative personality and depth... relative, because--as always--the story is really too short and too focused on plot and mystery to make every suspect live and breathe for the reader.  That's all right, though.  They're still interesting to read about, which is what truly matters. And as with every book she writes, Christie has also put together a delicious puzzle that will keep one turning the pages until the very end.  I did manage to figure out the culprit in advance,  but rather than being disappointed, I was delighted:  it's always a pleasure to beat even the great Hercule Poirot to the punch!<br /><br />This story will make a fine addition to the Christie fan's bookshelf.  I'd recommend it as a quick holiday read for anyone:  light, fast-paced, and clever, it's a pleasing tidbit that could serve as a great stocking stuffer, or as a gift either for another or yourself on any day of the year.	2001-01-01
US	49592031	R31VWJSS3MT2C0	0312859708	487574206	Juniper, Gentian, And Rosemary	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Not the Best To Judge Her By	After I read _Tam Lin_, I found myself intrigued by Pamela Dean's unique writing style:  her pacing, her characters, her use of allusions--all seemed to cry out for more study.  As such, I was very pleased to find _Juniper, Gentian, and Rosemary_ at the local library.  I was somewhat less pleased by the time I finished it.<br /><br />Now, don't get me wrong.  This book has its strengths and bright points:  Gentian herself is a wonderful character, and though she and her friends may be somewhat erudite for their age, it makes sense within the world of the novel.  The myriad references to the stars made me want to go raid my savings for the money to buy a telescope.  It was no chore to me to read about Gentian's daily life and mundane exploits.  If you come to be interested in her character, they are likely to entertain you similarly.<br /><br />The problem here is one which showed up in _Tam Lin_, but taken to greater extremes:  though alluded to throughout the book, the 'main' plot is one which only really shows up in the rushed and contrived ending.  And this time there isn't even an explanation given for it.  What precisely is Dominic?  What does he want to build a time machine for?  Why on earth would *anyone's* parents allow them to fall under an otherworldly sway for upwards of ten months?  The lack of outside interference could be believed with _Tam Lin_'s Janet, but here seems ridiculous.  Further, though Gentian solves her own problems, she does not consciously do so.  There is no sense of triumph after reading the climactic scene, only bemusement and one lingering question:  \\"What just happened?\\"<br /><br />I'm really only giving this book four stars because I was on the whole pleased with it until it reached its ending, and because three and a half stars isn't an option.  Anyone who is more interested in the plot of Sisters vs. Demon than in the character of Gentian specifically may wish to subtract a star; anyone who is also annoyed by puzzles, rampant literary quotations, and a dream-like fairy tale atmosphere would probably do better to read something by another author altogether.	2000-12-24
US	49592031	RRGMI2JP1UI5N	0152008667	8627718	Dragon's Blood: The Pit Dragon Trilogy, Volume One	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Fantastic Read For Any Age	There aren't that many authors who've mastered the art of telling a story that's simple enough that children can get drawn into it, yet complex enough not to bore adults or young adults.  J. K. Rowling is one.  Diane Duane is another.  And Jane Yolen, as she proves in _Dragon's Blood_, is definitely a third.<br /><br />Set in a vividly-painted world with a detailed society, _Dragon's Blood_ is a coming-of-age story that features dragons on par with McCaffrey's or Duane's when it comes to the ability to enchant.  As most such stories do, it has a happy ending... but not completely happy, and if Jakkin seems to have an unusual amount of luck on his side, Yolen still manages to tell his story in a way that won't make adults (who tend to be more cynical than starry-eyed young teenagers) roll their eyes and toss the book aside.  On the flip side of the coin, while concepts such as prostitution, maturity achieved through sex, and drug addiction are mentioned, this is done tastefully and with a definite message against all of the above.  I wouldn't hesitate to give this book to a child, though the very young or very sheltered might have questions about these issues after reading.<br /><br />With a strong plot, realistic characters, a colorful setting, and the perpetual delight that is (well-portrayed) dragons, _Dragon's Blood_ would give either a youngster or an adult a great introduction to the fantasy genre.  For those who are already fans, add this one to your bookshelf; you won't be sorry.  However, you might want to wait until you've read it before purchasing the sequels, neither of which quite measure up to their predecessor.	2000-12-18
US	49592031	RLYH3IQI8O160	0812509072	106666715	White Jenna	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good, But Not Without Flaws	Jane Yolen is a superbly gifted artist.  In _Sister Light, Sister Dark_, she introduced us to White Jenna, the Anna of prophecy and a young woman caught up in matters beyond her understanding; the end to Jenna's story is found in this sequel, _White Jenna_.  Here we see a continuation of a very intriguing, original theme:  the difference between myth, legend, history, and truth, where what really happened may strike historians as the incredible thing of all.<br /><br />It's a shame, though, that the story itself isn't quite as mesmerizing as the theme behind it.  The large role promised to Skada on the bookflap is never actually given; rather than sister, Dark Queen, and equal, she seems more like Jenna's convenient and helpful servant, showing up only in times of trouble.  Large spans of time are skipped over; the fast-forwarding through the rest of Jenna's life was particularly irritating.  Most of the characters either weren't developed as fully as they could have been or seemed like clones of earlier ones--there was remarkably little difference between Pynt and Petra, given that the latter originally seemed much more serious-minded.  And despite what I said earlier about the main charm of the book being its comparison of history and truth, myth and reality, Jenna really did seem to accomplish amazingly little for a woman whose coming has been foretold for centuries and who was supposed to be a Goddess's good right hand.<br /><br />Still, it's not at all a bad book.  People who enjoyed the first in the series should likewise enjoy this one, for even with all its flaws, Jenna is as intriguing a heroine as ever, Carum as winsome, and Skada as entertaining.  I probably wouldn't advise anyone to read this unless they've already read _Sister Light, Sister Dark_, though; whoever tries to do so is likely to end up very confused.	2000-12-18
US	49592031	R1P81G79H1GWK9	0812515285	646002347	A Fire Upon The Deep (Zones of Thought)	Books	4	60	73	N	N	Slow Going, But Worth Reading Anyway	This was a very silly book for the professor of my Intro to Sci-Fi class to assign at the end of the semester.  Not because of the page count, as relatively large as that is; not because it's too weighty or complex to understand, either, since it really isn't.  However, it *is* a book that moves somewhat slowly--and which will not, frankly speaking, keep you turning pages late into the night out of any fervent desire to see what happens next.<br /><br />Despite this, I'd still highly recommend it for the reader who doesn't mind possibly being in for a long haul.  The concepts introduced in _Fire Upon the Deep_ are fascinating:  Zones of Thought, Skroderiders, Powers, Transcendence--and particularly the Known Net, an Internet-like contrivance which links a good part of the galaxy together.  Balanced against these science fictional elements is the more fantastic setting of Tines' World, a medieval land inhabited by dog-like creatures who communicate through telepathy and have an intriguing method of genetic engineering.  Whether you're a fan of science fiction, fantasy, or just a good tale, there's something here for you.  Unfortunately, the rushed and anti-climactic ending does detract from what would otherwise be an excellent story.<br /><br />Know what to expect before you buy this book:  interesting--and fresh!--ideas, wonderfully vivid characters, a bit of humor, a bit of horror, technological exposition, and a good, solid plot. Don't read this if you're out for something quick and light, and be prepared to put it down now and then, maybe even picking something else to read before you finish.  This isn't a fast or easy novel to get through, but the virtues of it make it worthwhile to endure.	2000-12-09
US	49592031	R1F607KX51Z59O	0812523695	548399660	The Door Into Shadow: The Tale of the Five #2	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A Worthy Sequel	This is one of the very few sequels I would say honestly surpasses the original.  _Door Into Shadow_ takes the ideas introduced in _Door Into Fire_, and brings them further into the light:  Segnbora d'Welcaen tai-Enraesi is the protagonist, and through her eyes, the reader will meet the Queen who cheated death, face the darker side of spirituality... and make the acquaintance of a Dragon who could change one's perspective on that mythical species forever.  Wonderfully thought-provoking, _Door Into Shadow_ doesn't flinch away from any issues, instead facing them head-on and taking us along for the ride.  It would be worth reading for the chance to meet Hasai (and see what becomes of Herewiss &amp; Co.) alone; add in the songs, the legends, the magic, the tragedies, and the joys, and it becomes a literary jewel beyond price.  Buy it if you can find it!	2000-12-04
US	49592031	R6JB2DWVM5X7N	0812536711	548399660	The Door Into Fire (The Tale of the Five #1)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Door Into Thoughts; a Door Into Dreams	By a stroke of extreme good fortune that I did not even appreciate at the time, my mother picked all three books of this trilogy up for me on a whim just before they went entirely out of print.  Having learned to be wary of Mom's book choices, I wasn't at all certain that I would enjoy them, but I dutifully picked up _Door Into Fire_ and started reading.  What a benediction to my mind this chance gift has been!<br /><br />It's worth noting that on first read, this book is confusing; Duane has succeeded in making a society that's truly *different* from our own, and the rules may occasionally surprise.  However, persevere!  This is a tale of spirituality, romance, magic, loyalty, sacrifice, and power, all the things that a fantasy series must have these days--and all of them done *well*.  The portrayals of sorcery and religion are new twists on older ideas, making them at once familiar and startlingly new.  And Herewiss's explorations into his soul and those of his companions give plenty of food for thought--what would we see, if we had the ability to look into our own that way?<br /><br />If you can find this book, *buy it*.  There is so much that is appealing about it that surely everyone will find something worthwhile between its covers; if all else fails, it's a spirited, intriguing story, and one which will linger in the memory.	2000-12-04
US	49592031	RI5ZHZNPN6OK9	0441081223	369260481	Gnome Man's Land	Books	5	15	15	N	N	It Takes a Brilliant Mind....	...To write a novel as hilarious as this one.  I can't imagine how _Gnome Man's Land_ was ever allowed to go out of print; it's one of the most hysterical, unbelievable things I've ever read, and a book I find myself coming back to again and again.  The characters, the plot, the parodies--all are priceless, and the message of the ending equally so.  I have never seen anyone better than Friesner at delivering a moral without spoiling the spirit of a humorous story.  Not only will the reader quite possibly be in tears from laughter, but he or she should come away from this book with a sense of having read something meaningful as well as entertaining.<br />Five stars aren't enough.  I'd give this one ten if I could.  If you can find a copy of _Gnome Man's Land_ anywhere, snap it up--and then hunt down the two sequels, _Harpy High_ and _Unicorn U._  They'll all be worth your wait!	2000-12-02
US	49592031	R1RXOO79PJ4H5Z	0441317626	912295051	Harpy High	Books	5	6	7	N	N	If Only My High School Had Been Like This!	Continuing the story begun in Esther Friesner's _Gnome Man's Land_, _Harpy High_ is another twisted, warped, and thoroughly comic treat for the lover of humorous fantasy.  Timothy Desmond is back with a new cast of characters as well as our old favorites, set to battle Baba--pardon, *Bambi*--Yaga for the sake of all humanity.  Oh, and to keep her from producing her own line of fitness videos, too.<br /><br />It's possible to view these books as simple (if delightful) brain candy, but they're really much more than that:  _Harpy High_ is educational in the sense that it can introduce the reader to several figures out of myth and literature; sure, Friesner's take on them might be a bit... unusual, but there's something to be said for a story that whets the curiosity.  Further, there's a valuable lesson to be learned from every book in this series--and this one is no exception.<br /><br />In short, Esther Friesner has concocted a bizarre and wonderful mix of comedy, myth, and meaning in this book and its fellow trilogy-members, _Gnome Man's Land_ and _Unicorn U._  All three are most definitely worth reading--and buying--if you can find them.	2000-12-02
US	49592031	R2FVE5WJN5P5MI	0441378447	778154662	Unicorn U.	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Ragnarok and Roll!	I was given a battered copy of this book by a friend of mine in sixth grade.  Just two pages in, I knew I was hooked.  Words really cannot describe what an amazing gift Esther Friesner has for humorous fantasy--and this trilogy, of which this is the third volume, is her most side-splitting work.  _Unicorn U._ is arguably the best of the three.  The chapter titles alone are memorable; the puns are *awful*, and if the plot doesn't have you laughing out loud at least five times, I'll eat a bug.  The characters are funny enough that they'd be worth reading about if they did nothing but sit around all day... and, of course, they have considerably more to keep them busy than that.  There's an Apocalypse to stop, after all.  And as if these qualities weren't recommendation enough, _Unicorn U._ is quite possibly the novel of the trilogy that's richest in meaning, moral, and message--all without spoiling the mood or missing a beat.  While I might not put it into the hands of a child (a lot of swearing happens), I'd certainly say that it would be a worthwhile read for young adults.  It's funny enough to hold attention without lacking substance beneath the laughs.  If you can find a copy of this book anywhere, buy it.  Even if you haven't read the first two, buy it.  And then spend years hunting for the others if you must.  This is definitely my favorite comic fantasy series, and Esther Friesner deserves all commendations for being able to mesh serious issues with humor in a manner unmatched by anyone else.	2000-12-02
US	49592031	R2EZ7OKLQNM48	0345418794	742538295	Dragonseye (Pern)	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Delightful in Some Respects, Distressing in Others	I was first introduced to the world of Pern when I was ten; I devoured most of the series at eleven, and have faithfully read each new installment since.  _Dragonseye_ is not quite up to the level of _Dragonflight_ or _Moreta: Dragonlady of Pern_, perhaps--but it's far from the worst in the series, and while it does have problems for many readers, there are some positive aspects, too.<br /><br />Starting with those:  in _Dragonseye_, we are given the tale of Artist Iantine and newly-Impressed greenrider Debera; we learn how the Harper Hall was founded; we get a fascinating glimpse at life on Pern in the Second Pass.  The Chalkin plot was intriguing while it lasted.  The new characters were, for the most part, wonderfully constructed, and I wish that there were going to be more books about them.  I would love to find out how Iantine ends up!<br /><br />However, most of the negative things said by other reviewers are also true, in my opinion.  The cover:  it's... um... bad.  The portrayal of homosexuals:  also not what I would hope for; Anne has shown that she can write sympathetic and realistic gay protagonists before (K'lon comes to mind), but for whatever reason, she didn't do so in this book.  P'tero and M'leng are embodiments of too many negative homosexual male stereotypes--they seem more like living stereotypes than real people, in fact.  The portrayal of heterosexuals:  I'm not sure how many other people were bothered by the scene wherein K'vin and Zulaya 'realize their affections,' but the idea that women long to be sexually dominated by men wasn't one that thrilled me.  The plot:  the main plot of the book ends too soon, and in a way that was a little too pat for my tastes.  Everything afterwards seemed anticlimactic, almost unnecessary, even though it was interesting material in its own right.  And in general, there were just too many subplots for one book of this size; none were, I thought, handled as thoroughly as they deserved to be.  I was left wantingmore.<br /><br />I really wouldn't recommend that newcomers to the marvelous world of Pern begin their explorations with this particular novel.  _Dragonflight_ or the Harper Hall trilogy would be a better choice.  _Dragonseye_ isn't a book that the fervent Pern fan could possibly miss, though--and even those who are somewhat less fervent should probably give it a try.  It's definitely worth reading, even if it isn't McCaffrey's best.	2000-11-29
US	49592031	R1BY4A9YUL2ITM	0515127396	103586426	The Cat Who Saw Stars	Books	2	13	14	N	N	Ms. Braun, What Happened To You?	I honestly don't know what to make of this book.  Are the other reviewers right?  Has Ms. Braun retreated and allowed a ghost writer to take over?  I'm going to hope not; that wouldn't bode well for the rest of the series, and I'm enough of a fan of Qwill and Koko to look towards the day that their adventures end with dread.<br /><br />It shouldn't come as a shock to any fans of these books when I say that the mystery aspect has been going downhill for awhile. Qwill's adventures--whether with the Pickax locals or picturesque natives in the many places he visits--have been taking precedence.  I actually don't mind that; Ms. Braun has a masterful hand with characters, and Qwill's escapades in Moose County are sufficiently entertaining that one can forgive her for the less intense, less fascinating whodunnits.  (Mind, those who are reading the series for the whodunnits more than for the characters have probably been in for disappointment.)<br /><br />In _Cat Who Saw Stars_, though, the mystery isn't just weak, it's practically nonexistent.  Early on, a body is discovered.  Do we ever find out who buried it?  No.  Is it the focus of the plot?  No.  Are Koko and Yum Yum on center stage, as we've come to expect from the novels prior to this one?  Not really.  Is Koko an alien?  He'd better not be.  That might tempt me to sell my entire collection.<br /><br />Further, the characterization is seriously off-kilter.  Qwill believing in UFOs?  Giving the Siamese cutesy-folksy cat toys?  Somehow, I can't buy that.  And where are so many of the favorite characters?  I'm not about to mourn the absence of Polly (who I've frankly been wishing would be the  victim of some killer or other for awhile now), but there are other Moose County residents I'd love to see.  Now, granted, half of our old friends have been offed by now, but you'd think a few more of the survivors would merit a cameo.<br /><br />Even die-hard fans of the series might do better to give this one a skip if they can't find it at the local library.  It definitely shouldn't be the first Cat Who book for anyone interested in getting into them.  For someone who doesn't have many expectations, though, and is just looking for a quick and somewhat entertaining story, this might be worth picking up.  Even at her worst, Ms. Braun can still turn out a reasonably pleasant evening's reading.	2000-11-29
US	49592031	R95EP1IEKR1UC	0553258540	155744261	Dragonsinger (Harper Hall Trilogy)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Beautiful, Magical, Wonderful	_Dragonsinger_ is the second book of Anne McCaffrey's Harper Hall trilogy, and easily the best of the three.  We are taken along for the ride on the adventures of Menolly, formerly of Half-Circle Sea Hold, as she attempts to fit in at Harper Hall despite her gender and despite the nine fire-lizards that are her 'embarrassment of riches.'<br /><br />Something worth keeping in mind when you're reading this book is that unlike most of the Pern novels, it's geared more towards a younger audience.  When you stop trying to compare it to strictly adult novels, a lot of the perceived flaws disappear.  Yes, there are elements of wish-fulfillment fantasy in it--but it is tastefully handled, and even when the protagonist comes out on top (as you know she must), her triumphs are not unbelievable.  She will never cradle the whole world in her hands; she may never make her estranged parents accept her... but she can win the success she deserves.<br /><br />Apart from the charming plot, there are other points on which this book earns its laurels:  the theme of music is wonderfully, powerfully done, and can readily appeal even to those who are not themselves musicians.  The world of Pern is drawn in vivid and enchanting colors for the reader.  As for the fire-lizards... yes, Menolly has so many that it is difficult to keep track of them; yes, the book probably would have been just as good if she had a few fewer.  But who can resist these small, beautiful, dragon-like creatures, with their jeweled eyes and affectionate thoughts?  I couldn't--as an adolescent I dreamed of a fire-lizard of my own, before graduating to dreaming of dragons after I first read _Dragonflight_.  The characters are marvelously drawn, fully sympathetic, and colorful; I never tire of them, and I am sure that I never will.<br /><br />_Dragonsinger_, though best read after _Dragonsong_, would be a lovely introduction to Anne McCaffrey's world of Pern.  Even read as a stand-alone, it is an amazing, inspiring book, perfect for a young dreamer or an older one.  I would highly recommend it for children or young adults in particular, but it is well worth reading regardless of one's age., perfect for a young dreamer or an older one.  I would highly recommend it for children or young adults in particular, but it is well worth reading regardless of one's age.	2000-11-29
US	49592031	R2D9N6OZ4JWMPU	0441003052	51235035	Starmind	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Interesting Story; Unfortunate Conclusion	This was not a bad book.  Well-written, with intriguing new characters and a return to the ever-fascinating Stardancers, it made for pleasant reading and gave me a few new things to think about.<br /><br />Unfortunately, I'm still almost sorry that I read it.<br /><br />I have to admit that I think the Robinsons would have been better off ending the Stardancer saga with _Starseed_, a story that has all of the virtues of this one with few of the vices.  What are those vices, you may wonder?  It's difficult to clarify them without spoiling the book, since many are tied into the ending, but I'll do my best.<br /><br />Very little time is spent on familiar characters.  What time is spent is regrettable, given the ultimate fate of those we see again.  Certain elements of the plot did not seem resolved by the ending.  (Why did all the miracles of nanotechnology happen?  I for one was left wondering.)  That ending seemed rushed, almost unbelievable, anticlimactic--I have faith enough in the authors to believe that it wasn't really a 'rabbit out of the hat' resolution (the sort in which something is pulled out of thin air to solve the characters' problems almost by magic, and just in time for the last page too), but it seemed very similar to one.  And one of the themes I found most fascinating about the prior two Stardancer novels, the theme of choice and the willful surrender of humanity, was abolished here by the forcing of the issue.<br /><br />In short, _Starmind_ would have made a far, far better book in my opinion if the ending had been different--or at least handled differently.  I would still recommend that fans of the prior two books read it if they are curious about the ultimate destiny of their favorite characters; I would not, however, suggest that anyone begin the trilogy with this one.	2000-11-21
US	49592031	RTGL7F2L5RK4B	0446603775	972640933	Dawn (Xenogenesis, Bk. 1)	Books	4	104	127	N	N	Disturbing and Intriguing	After being assigned this novel for a college class, I picked it up expecting not to like it much; the professor had praised it as being exemplary of &#34;African-American writing,&#34; a phrase I am as leery of as I am of &#34;feminist writing&#34; or &#34;Asian writing&#34; or any writing at all that's judged and labeled on the basis of the author's ethnic background or gender rather than on the merits of the story.  However, _Dawn_ was nothing like what I had feared.  Its story does not seem aimed particularly at any target audience, instead being simply enjoyable science fiction.  There is no preaching in this book--only an engaging plot which draws the reader into its folds, the better to sink tendrils into the mind and make one wonder 'What if...?'  I don't know whether I *like* the ideas that Butler presents.  They disturbed me.  Yet I also found myself intrigued; there is plenty of food for thought in Lilith's relationship to the Oankali and in the Oankali's view of humanity.  It's a shame that the general portrayal of humanity is tainted enough to cost the book a star.  True, the thought-provoking nature of the novel is in part due to the subtle questions it raises about conformity and the truth of the saying about what to do 'when rape is inevitable'--but with the exception of Lilith, we are given no human protagonists with whom we can strongly identify, through whose eyes we can really explore these issues.  The males in particularly are portrayed poorly; for the most part violent, boorish, and sex-obsessed, they aren't what I would call the best representatives of our population.  Nor are the woman any better; most of them are either followers or conformists, allowing themselves to be drugged and subjected to sexual activities that they would not consent to of their free will.  These people aren't quite my idea of heroes or heroines.  All in all, though, this is a novel well worth reading both for the questions it raises and for the entertaining story itprovides.  And for those who find themselves drawn in particularly strongly, the sequel, _Adulthood Rites_, will serve to clarify and expand on the ideas found here.	2000-11-20
US	49592031	R30B0PU39LBTMR	0060114185	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	5	539	575	N	N	Mesmerizing and Marvelous	There are relatively few books that I've had to read for my college classes and truly enjoyed.  This was one of them.<br /><br />Now, be warned:  this is not a clear-cut story; the prose can be confusing, and the repetition of names makes it more difficult by far to keep track of who is who.  The novel does indeed cover one hundred years, so expect to see favorite characters die if they first appear early on.  There is no one protagonist.  The family is the protagonist--the family, and the town.<br /><br />Perhaps despite these potential confusions and perhaps because of them, Marquez has woven in this book a shroud of mysteriousness and magical realism that make reading it something like stepping into a dream; his Macondo is like nowhere else on Earth (or at least nowhere I have ever heard of), and things at once comic, tragic, and unreal can happen there.  You will find dreamers and would-be scientists, layabouts and soldiers, matriarchs and wantons in this enchanted household.  Enchantment of a murky sort hovers over the land like a haze, touching everything and separating the descendants of Jose Arcadio from the world as we know it.<br /><br />You may not want to read it in one sitting; you may find yourself putting it down for awhile, confused or exasperated by the latest turn of events, but it is quite likely that you will pick it up again in due course with curiosity drawing you back into the realm Marquez has created.  As classics go, this is one worthy of the title, and it is a story to be savored.	2000-11-11
US	49592031	R114X6PQCL3Q43	0441000916	632637589	The Laughing Corpse (Anita Blake, Vampire Hunter)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Not Quite As Jolly As the Title Might Imply	Like all of the Anita Blake books I have read so far (I've gotten up to _Blue Moon_, and stalled there; my dislike of Richard taints that book for me), this one was excellent.  Fast-paced, darkly humorous, exciting, and well worth buying even at the exorbitant price that paperbacks cost nowadays.  (Of course, I did buy it in a regular bookstore.)<br /><br />The potential reader should be warned, however:  of books one through seven (at least), this is the most gory by far.  _Bloody Bones_ is probably the only one to even give it competition.  Messy deaths are described in great detail... and it isn't always an adult who dies.  I'm not generally all that squeamish, but I still winced at a couple of the scenes in here.  And while there is a leavening dose of humor, _Laughing Corpse_ remains the Anita Blake novel closest to being traditional horror.<br /><br />Don't read this one first.  Start at the beginning, with _Guilty Pleasures_; if you can't find it, consider _Circus of the Damned_ as a starting point instead.  There's a great deal to be said for this book, but it stands slightly apart from the others in its sheer amount of blood 'n guts and its darker atmophere. Anyone who's looking to get into the series might be better advised to do so via another route.  Anyone who's already come to like Anita Blake probably won't be able to put it down.	2000-11-11
US	49592031	R2CTD9330IEAJY	0345361326	327881006	Those Who Hunt the Night (James Asher, Book 1)	Books	5	13	15	N	N	Vampires By Gaslight	Before I read this novel, I didn't care at all for vampire stories.  Barbara Hambly managed to change that.<br /><br />Dark and elegantly horrific, radiating the scent of old blood and the dust of time, _Those Who Hunt the Night_ is similar in many ways to Anita Blake's _Guilty Pleasures_, but is suited less to those who favor humor and urban fantasy than to those who are interested in darkness with feeling and depth.  Hambly brings her vampires to life for you--you may not understand them, you may not empathize with them, but they will seem real. Ysidro in particular has the power to fascinate, drawing forth the interest of the reader without ever slipping into anything much like humanity.<br /><br />James Asher is also an interesting character in his own right, even if he may end up playing second-fiddle to Ysidro by the story's end.  Lydia Asher could be reckoned as a heroine strong in her own right--for whatever reason, though, she was one character who left me cold.<br /><br />This book is well worth reading, as is its sequel, _Traveling With the Dead_.  _Those Who Hunt the Night_ is probably the better of the two; its dark and occasionally chilling atmosphere will linger with one for a long time after the final page has been turned.	2000-11-11
US	49592031	R1V4PWOJLRZCHH	1575001438	688305496	Survivor : The Ultimate Game	Books	2	2	3	N	N	Not Quite What I Expected	To be fair, this book was not meant to be a novel.  Nor was it intended to be a grand piece of literature (I would assume).  It's a companion to a network TV show, and so one's expectations shouldn't be too high.  Even so, _Survivor_ managed to not quite live up to mine.    It wasn't a terrible book.  I'm not sorry I read it.  (I'm a little sorry I paid full price for it, but I keep telling myself it's a nice souvenir of the craze.)  However, it is lacking in entirely too many respects.  There were, as other reviewers have mentioned, continuity errors.  The placement of the pictures can best be described as 'funky.'  Grammar and spelling errors are rife.  It does not give much new information; the behind-the-scenes look at the reward challenge that Kelly won was the only truly revelational thing that I saw.  As such, it doesn't live up to its potential--it could have been so much more than a rehash of the show.    It gets worse from there.  Don't expect an unbiased look at the teams or the individuals.  I was actually offended at a few points by the author's attitude:  not only did he clearly favor certain contestants, not only did he present things at a slant that calls what he says into question, but he also preached about his personal viewpoints.  The sections wherein he condemned the Tagi members for their view of Dirk's evangelism downright infuriated me; his assessment of all non-believers as flawed and pitiable was unnecessary and unappreciated.  And I won't even get into the oddity of the 'Chief Jeff' thing.    On the whole, I would say that this book makes a quick and fairly pleasant read for fans of the show who aren't apt to tear their hair out over the various errors, but the reader should be prepared for disappointment and possible offense.  Buy it used or get it at the library if you can.	2000-11-05
US	49592031	R2Y36WXGXZOK0F	0679736646	201087508	Ubik	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Mind-Dazzling Read	I'm not usually a fan of science fiction (fantasy is more my thing), but I'm taking a course in it this year, and one of the novels we were assigned was _Ubik_.  I picked it up this evening with a sense of reluctant duty... and put it down about four hours later, finished and wondering, \\"What *was* that?\\"<br /><br />I mean this in a positive sense!<br /><br />_Ubik_ reminded me, in some ways, of a very good mystery novel:  something is fishy in Denmark, and you're constantly tantalized with hints of just what it is and who is at fault.  This kept me entirely hooked into the book, and I was left dazzled by the possible meanings of the ending.  Sure, the prose might not be flawless, but who really notices when the plot keeps you turning the pages like mad?  I don't know a thing about the rest of PKD's work, but I'd certainly recommend _Ubik_, even for those who aren't enamored of the genre.	2000-10-18
US	49592031	R1XFQOQ4SDKDNV	0807062995	751041157	The Female Man (Bluestreak)	Books	3	16	20	N	N	'Startling, Outrageous, and Subversive'?  Well... Sort Of.	I'm a woman, but I still didn't adore this book.  (Just in case there were doubts that this is possible.)<br /><br />Not because of the message, really.  I'll give Russ credit:  though there were bits of heavy-handed feminism, *almost* to the point of preaching, she never devolved to the point where I wanted to throw the book across the room; her preaching, such as it was, was intelligently written and integrated well with the plot.  Insofar as there was a plot.<br /><br />This is where the book falls apart for me.  Maybe you will get more out of it if you're a fan of Faulkner-esque writing styles; for me, it seemed the next best thing to incomprehensible and entirely confusing, with the various elements (time travel, parallel universes, utopian societies, alternate histories, feminism, violence, vulgarity, and random sex) blended into one big chaotic stew.  I managed to finish it, only to find that the ending clarified little and was very unsatisfactory.  Russ might as well have dropped all the characters off of a cliff; at least then I'd have a better clue of what happened to them.<br /><br />However, I am giving _Female Man_ three stars, because it isn't unreadable and does have good moments.  I very much liked the character of Janet, and Jeannine was somewhat intriguing; Joanna's struggles were interesting to me, who did not live through her time period, and Jael... well, all right, she was deranged and disturbing, but who doesn't enjoy seeing the occasional murder-by-claw?<br /><br />In summary:  you might find it a good read if you're into Faulkner-type prose, or understand (and like) this brand of feminism better than I do, but I really wouldn't recommend picking up a copy unless you're bored or it's on sale at your local half-price store.	2000-10-18
US	49592031	R2LBXW9LRTEN0Y	0812544501	137004441	Tam Lin (Fairy Tale)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	O I Forbid Ye, Maidens All....	A lot of what the negative reviewers of _Tam Lin_ say is true.  By many standards, the book is heavily flawed... but it's still one of my favorites.<br /><br />I read _Tam Lin_ in one night--I couldn't bear to put it down; I never wanted it to end.  I would have been happy to be caught up in the world of Janet, Thomas, Molly, Nick, etceteras for all time.  The literary allusions were intriguing; the poetry was enchanting; Robin was hilarious.  This book, in fact, was one of the factors responsible for my decision to change my major to English (one which I don't regret).  It is a beautiful, spellbinding, memorable work of art.<br /><br />And you just know there's a but coming after that sentence.<br /><br />The ending is rushed, and seems contrived.  There are loose ends which are never tied up.  There are mysteries which are never explained to satisfaction.  Unless there is a sequel, which seems unlikely, we will never find out what happens to the secondary characters; further, the cliffhanger question at the end (which are the 'two dearer'?) is left unanswered.  Subplots are ended roughly and abruptly.<br /><br />The miracle of _Tam Lin_ is that I can see all this, recognize all of this, and love it anyway.  It's definitely worth the read--you may not come away with a sense of having read something perfectly crafted, but you will probably come away with the sense of having read something worthwhile.	2000-10-18
