US	49607028	R8EP1HCQM7IFA	1594480044	367597801	Ask the Pilot: Everything You Need to Know About Air Travel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If most of the pilots are like him, I'm safe	Patrick Smith's book, strictly speaking, is not for everyone. The prerequisite is to have some interest in air travel. You don't need to be a nut or an obsessive airliner anorak, but if you live in London and don't know what LHR and LGW stand for, or if the number 747 means absolutely nothing to you, don't buy this book. You will probably be bored. <br /> <br />It is true that there are some repetitions (the content is based on regular website contributions) - but then there are so many erroneous stereotypes about air travel that maybe it's worth rubbing the correct information in. <br /> <br />Overall, the book is a helpful reminder that someone who is flying your plane is more competent than a passenger and that slightly rougher landing does not mean that the pilot is drunk or had too little training; if you are stuck for an hour waiting for the gate this is not because the pilot is too dim to spot one or is enjoying himself sending text messages from his cellphone. <br /> <br />	2004-12-12
US	49607028	R2N8Y4CO45V0YD	0141013524	408435897	Time Out Guide to Tokyo, 3rd Edition	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Comprehensive, easy to use, focused - who could've thunk it?	I am usually less than impressed with Time Out - too concerned about being cool and hip; ocassionally preaching, sometimes overloaded with opinion.  <br /> <br />This is not the case with Tokyo. Yes, the guide sometimes slips into over-casual tone of oh-so-self-aware urban cool, which can be annoying, but overall this is a major success.  <br /> <br />I would say Time Out covers Tokyo better than Rough Guide Japan, by far the best guide to the country (where places OTHER than Tokyo are covered very well, and Hokkaido is just outstanding, but Tokyo chapter lacks punch and inspiration). <br /> <br />Eyewitness and Fodors, although more than adequate, are clearly behind on this front; Lonely Planet is just about OK, which is more than can be said about many of the LP guides. <br /> <br />Back to Time Out. I would say that maps could be better and some of the practicalities are sketchy, but overall description of the city, area by area, and why you would want to go there, are very good. <br /> <br />The guide, regrettably, overlooked the town of Narita, which, 40 miles away from Tokyo, is so much more than the location of Narita international airport, although the giant Tokyo is just too close and is steeling its thunder. Most of the other guides have a good description of the town and Narita has a good tourist office. <br /> <br />I found descriptions of restaurants good, but maybe too heavily biased towards foreign cuisine (why would anyone eat foreign food when visiting Japan, a paradise of gourmet adventures both cheap and expensive, is anybody's guess). <br /> <br />Hotel descriptions, I thought, were really among the most accurate. I have stayed in quite a few places in Tokyo and upon checking my experiences against this guide, I would say it is very reliable. <br /> <br />If you're only going to visit Tokyo, this is the natural choice. If you are touring Japan and have an all-country guide, this is still a book that you will not regret buying.	2004-11-01
US	49607028	R1MSMLF6NFTRE6	186450319X	976889858	Lonely Planet Unpacked Again (Anthology)	Books	1	8	11	N	N	Useful - but not in the way LP intended	This little book is an essential read for those who wish to understand why so many LP books are mostly naive, hysterical, biased waffle. It will show you, in great detail, the sad people who produce these poorly researched newsletters, and you will get a deeper insight into why most of the Lonely Planet books are a waste of money. <br /> <br />(Enthusiasts of LP can stop reading now and click NOT HELPFUL straight away. Thank you.) <br /> <br />A reviewer before me summed it up very neatly about the writers: \\"either drunk much of the time, naive beyond belief, or both\\". I could not say it better. <br /> <br />You read this book and you see this is all about getting drunk, missing the plane, getting drunk, not complying with immigration regulations, getting drunk, and then getting drunk some more. And always, ALWAYS going to the poorest countries and driving a hard bargain with the poorest people there so that afterwards they can proudly boast how they crossed India (2000 miles or something) for $11.50 when the going rate was $11.70.  <br /> <br />I remember reading, with disbelief, in LP guide to West Africa about how you can take a journey of over 100 km for $0.11 instead of $0.15 or something. Now I know what kind of dolts write these guidebooks and I perfectly understand them.  <br /> <br />Having no money is no sin; having no brain and no thoughts in your head and not seeing ANYTHING beyond the cheapest bus fare on a rusty bus (Oooh! I'm not going by taxi like all those disgusting rich people! I am so proud of myself! I think I'll meet up with Deanna Swaney and get drunk!) is not a sign of intelligence; but writing travel books when the ONLY thought in your head is saving money and getting drunk - this is just plain sad. <br /> <br />\\"Disaster Stories\\"? Yes. The biggest disaster is that most of those writers ever got their boarding passes.	2004-10-28
US	49607028	R35YBD4DHPIOFA	1858288592	685119279	The Rough Guide to Kenya	Books	3	25	29	N	N	Revamped, looks better - but where's the spirit?	Rough Guide definitely looks smarter today than it used to. Typeface and design overhauled, and even their hideous logo (which STILL looks like a fire exit sign) has been jazzed up into a more agreeable fuzzy pharmaceutical-looking symbol. There are more photos, and better ones. Information, from what I could see, is accurate, and there good practical tips, as usual. <br /> <br />The problem is their writing. They say in their preface that Kenya is a hugely rewarding country to visit - but there is no evidence of the authors having a good time. The text is dry, uninspired, shallow; again, it reminds you of tax return guidance notes.  <br /> <br />It does not FEEL like they liked the country; and, while it is evident that a lot of effort has been put in, it does feel like a 'contractual obligation product' rather than an inspired writing from someone who is genuinely connected with Kenya. <br /> <br />While I found hotel descriptions helpful, dining advice is the most disappointing aspect. People who know Kenya better than I do confirmed to me, with bewilderment, that restaurants appear to have been picked at random or, worse, still, their names have been copied from leaflets lying around in upmarket hotels. It is a real shame in a country where you can have the best Ethiopian meal outside Addis. <br /> <br />The section on getting to Kenya is hardly helpful - essentially lots of hot air on theoretically available airline options, prices which were out of date before the guide was even printed and a stubborn refusal to admit that these days, if anyone is too thick to check the price on the net, perhaps that person would be better off staying at home. <br /> <br />It is commendable that the guide is more open to all kinds of readers and does not presume that everyone only has twenty dollars a day to spend, but its value is diminished by the lacklustre writing. An informative and accurate guide does not need to be this boring.	2004-07-24
US	49607028	RLIQ3GVDBX0Q2	0060763957	967480762	Michael Moore Is a Big Fat Stupid White Man	Books	5	35	48	N	N	Accurate, candid, detailed: unlike Moore's prose and films	Yes, the most negative reviews come from people who have not read it. Don't you just love it? Now that Michael Moore's lies are documented, his apostles say &quot;OK but how does that affect REAL ISSUES?&quot; As if having a point justifies lies and fabrication. <br />  <br /> It reminds me of a TV programme where an anti-airline activist was caught casually exaggerating pollution impact of airline travel by exactly the factor of 10. When confronted that it was not accurate, she said: &quot;Oh but that's not the real issue. The real issue is that planes polute the atmosphere.&quot; <br />  <br /> If issues are real, surely they would be impressive enough presented using REAL figures and undoctored footage cuts? Except that real figures and undoctored footage might give a balanced and not-so-dramatic impression, and this is not Moore wants. He is a traditional scaremonger, hate peddler and doom merchant: he never lets truth stand in the way of a good, gloomy sermon or a war cry. <br />  <br /> The book does a brilliant job (with a help of some previously published articles from assorted press), exposing this narcissitic, self-important and shameless liar. It may not be the most entertaining read in the world (because it goes into detail - it has to), but the sight of this cynical scum crushed by methodical facts and figures is a delight. <br />  <br /> My favourite bit? Real stories about how Michael Moore hates the taste of his own medicine. How he sues reporters trying to research his activities... How he becomes irrational when confronted by someone other that the flock of his followers. <br />  <br /> The book correctly notes that Michael Moore has a semi-religious cult following, which does not say much for his &quot;issues&quot;, which are mostly figments of a very disturbed imagination. It is quite cute that so many people choose to pay good money to this flag-bearer of hatred: it feels right to see them punished by the figure of their adoration.	2004-07-22
US	49607028	R2JYNSAXNQM39E	0300060785	470785969	The Baltic Revolution: Estonia, Latvia, Lithuania and the Path to Independence	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Solid and opinionated, landmark of the era	This well-written, confident and elegantly worded book will not be the guidebook to the Baltics of today, but this is not why you would be picking this book in this day and age. 'The Baltic Revolution' is now firmly a part of the shelf looking at history - albeit a recent one, but history nevertheless.<br />It was fun to pick this book and leaf through it this week. My God - it was only written about a decade ago! So many things changed beyond belief (shops, houses, infrastructure, clothes - these are no-brainers; but also political life has matured incredibly, and Lithuania even managed to impeach its president caught with his hand in the till).<br />And then, even more bizarrely, you notice that so many things stayed the same. EXACTLY the same.<br />If you are in the Baltics for more than a week, this book would make a captivating reading: you will understand where Baltic ways of doing things, Balts' thoughts and idiosynchracies come from. In my travels, I found that studies of RECENT history of a country were the most revealing when trying to understand the national character. Maybe it is something about being able to see the process - see it 'to scale', so to speak.<br />The Baltic people are prisoners of their history more than they are willing to admit (and as a Lithuanian-born and Lithuanian-educated but UK-resident Lithuanian, I can say so without a fear of insulting sensibilities). In Lieven's book, you will read about the same character traits - but, visually, the countries really are nothing like those in which Mr Lieven lived when he used to write for 'The Times'.<br />Probably the smartest analogy I could think of would be as follows: imagine yourself staying in one of seven-star super-duper hotels in Dubai with plasma TVs and fish-tank walls and internet access in your shower AND while you're at it, read a book about the times when this emyrate was nothing but desert and camels.<br />It is, however, very sad to realize that, with a bit of luck, the Baltics may never again be in a situation where major newspapers would feel it is worthwile to retain a correspondent there. It is good news for the people of those countries that Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are no longer on the news map. They have developed into predictable democracies - unexciting but better for the people.<br />However, in the absence of seasoned correspondents, who is going to write books about them like Mr Lieven?Baltics may never again be in a situation where major newspapers would feel it is worthwile to retain a correspondent there. It is good news for the people of those countries that Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are no longer on the news map. They have developed into predictable democracies - unexciting but better for the people. <br />However, in the absence of seasoned correspondents, who is going to write books about them like Mr Lieven?	2004-07-14
US	49607028	R2HTTKN58KIKBS	067900890X	708249666	Fodor's Japan, 16th Edition: The Guide for All Budgets, Completely Updated, with Color Photos and Many Maps (Travel Guide)	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Very good, but there may be stronger contenders	Fodor's was the fourth guide that I bought for Japan. It did not disappoint, but competition is tough and others do a better job in some areas.<br />My biggest complaint would be a poor map of Tokyo subway (black and white, coding of lines difficult to follow even for someone who is not a complete newcomer), even poorer street map of Tokyo itself and no subway map for Kyoto. True, you can get free subway maps; and decent maps of Tokyo are available separately, but after investing money into a good guide you should not have to worry about this.<br />The guide sounds inspired and cheerful, sections about dining, culture and the language are better than adequate. It can be quite prescriptive at times, but it does not really stand in the way of enjoyment.<br />The guide does a good job countering small-minded myths about &quot;expensive Japan&quot;. To all those whining about $10 cups of coffee and $100 melons I say this: if coffee and melons and other comforts are so crucial to you, maybe you should stay at home to make sure you have cheap supply of these commodities. One recalls certain Lonely Planet writers who dedicate half of their time spent in Scandinavia to a search for cheap booze; they get very disappointed when they cannot find any and then they go on for pages and pages about it. Well, Fodor's guide does not get its foot into the same trap: when in Japan, do not try to recreate home experiences and you'll be fine. Still, I think the guide worries too much about Italian and Mexican restaurants in Japan: I do not think there are many people so strange that they would go half-way around the world and then try to get something that is available back home for a fraction of a price. Anyway, looking for an italian place in Japan is a bit like shopping for a computer in Ghana - yes, it is available, but why would you do it?<br />The guide is strong on directions to the attractions and descriptions are brief but accurate. I liked Hokkaido section which not all guidescover adequately (DK Eyewitness, for example, only managed to cough up a few pages - definitely not sufficient for the exciting land that is the north of Japan).<br />It is disappointing that Fodor decided not to cover Okinawa at all: many of travellers to Japan would want to go there. I understand this was done because they needed more space for Tokyo and Kyoto.<br />It is evident that the writers do not have the same fascination with Tokyo as they have with Kyoto. It is not a shortcoming because no-one really loves both the same way, yet you may find that Rough Guide does a more spirited coverage of the main city.<br />Overall, DK Eyewitness has much better maps (not so strong on anything else, unfortunately), Lonely Planet has solid descriptions and practical info of some more remote places and also covers kanji versions of placenames in a very convenient way, but overall Rough Guide Japan is still the strongest book for the destination (and I am not a natural fan of Rough Guide, but in Japan they really surpassed themselves and all others). <br />Fodor's Japan is good but not ideal unless you like their writing style and their indexing system (admittedly quite good, and goes some way towards compensating for less-than-adequate mapping) so much that you are prepared to ignore the shortcomings.	2004-06-21
US	49607028	R3MZY10OA4DA88	2067004328	48335196	Michelin Sicily Map No. 432 (Michelin Maps & Atlases)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Not up to standard, but alternatives are thin on the ground	The only reason to recommend Michelin Sicily would be that nothing much better is widely available. I drove in Sicily extensively and I was not impressed with this map: their printing quality looks cheap in this day and age, distances between points are confusing and preciseness leaves much to be desired. <br />Maybe I set my standards too high, but this is not an excellent product. If you are driving in Sicily, you will probably be stuck with this map anyway, just do not have inflated expectations.<br />For those who go to Sicily to look at Godfather and Godfather 2 locations - yes, it DOES have indications of both Forza d'Agro and Savoca (near Taormina, that's eastern coast). And yes, in Savoca they have Bar Vitelli where Michael Corleone talked to Apollonia's father, yes, that bar is still open, and yes, you can sit in Corleone's chair and yes, the curtain is still there, you can touch it.	2004-06-05
US	49607028	R2VBCX9W8UOIO2	0764567187	808254863	Frommer's Sicily (Frommer's Complete Guides)	Books	5	65	66	N	N	For Sicily, this is the definite winner	I had this guide as a back-up to my conventional choice of DK Eyewitness. DK let me down completely, and I had to rely on Frommer - and boy was I lucky I bought this book.<br />You may argue with the style of writing (for many, it is too patronizing and too prescriptive), but you cannot argue that they have done their reserch and then some more. If you are on a mission to set the world straight and if everything smelling of America appals you, you will not like it: Lonely Planet will make you happier. However, if you seek reliable information for your trip and generously extensive descriptions, Frommer's is your guide. <br />Good maps, and detailed (if very personal) descriptions for lodging and restaurants. Practical info is as good as you can get in often unpredictable and laid-back Italian south. Info about driving in Italy is honest. Writing style is lively and positive; you get overall sense of authors enjoying themselves and really being in love with the island.<br />This is Frommer's first guide to Sicily, and first guides are not always very strong - but this one is definitely a major success.<br />Frommer's does not often come as top of the list in my guidebook recommendations, but this is one occasion where it does so with flying colors.	2004-06-05
US	49607028	R2W3UT08C31VKP	0789495732	410173056	Sicily (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	2	21	42	N	N	Disappointing. Even DK can run out of steam.	How things change. Until now, I had only good things to say about Eyewitness Guides. They used to be top of the heap. True, there have been decidedly average jobs (Japan was one, beaten by unlikely contender, Rough Guide, hands down), but Sicily is a major disappointment.<br />The first and the main thing that is wrong with this book - not enough content, not enough informed text, and tired cliched writing at that, too. The appearance is still there: nice pictures, helpful layout, but there's nothing to read. Description of major attractions is superficial at best. History section (&quot;through the ages&quot;) is a bit better, but this is about the only strong point.<br />There isn't even a decent map of Palermo (tourist office gives you a better one for free), and the maps which are included cannot even be bothered to show a railway station. Information on airport transfers? Forget about it. Talk about sleeping on their laurels. <br />For comparison: a few years ago, a guide to much less visited (a far more difficult) Sardinia was sharp, well-researched and informative. It seems that they work so hard to enter the league of major guide producers to every popular destination, alongside with Lonely Planet, Fodor's, Frommers and Rough Guide, that they lost their sense of purpose and, most importantly, their pride of superbly produced, all-stops-pulled, product.<br />I used to commend DK on their cheerful style of writing, so different from a grumpy and grumbling world of Lonely Planet and Rough Guide. Now, it seems, they had taken another extreme: research is so superficial it appears not to exist at all, and practical advice so general they can apply to almost country.<br />Alternative? I had Frommer's as my second guide on my Sicilian trip, and I found it very good (actually, much better researched and deeper than their latest full-Italy guide). There are drawbacks, but overall it was extremely useful. More than can be said about this Eyewitness Guide.	2004-06-04
US	49607028	RAPIN3JTUHHLH	1740591305	109433072	Lonely Planet Dubai	Books	1	2	4	N	N	Incompetent little book of inaccurate information	Lonely Planet is capable of producing very good guides when it tries to cover a destination and not set the world straight. I have seen excellent guides by Lonely Planet, but this is not one of them.      This is not a guidebook to Dubai - this is a guidebook to the author's own busybody and killjoy brain. Disguised as pieces as 'another opinion', the text is littered with nuggets of 'responsible thought' - even desert safary should leave you worried because, you see, it is POTENTIALLY damaging the evironment. Potentially? Or is it that there is no proven harm of riding jeeps on the sand but in the twisted spirit of Lonely Planet, one should always frown upon irresponsible ways of the world.      The guide goes on for pages and pages of what has to be the most irrelevant, useless and inacurrate advice. Airline 'tariffs' (what do these have to do with what you actually pay) are shown down to the nearest dollar, the trouble is that it has nothing to do with reality. Maybe if the authors were less concerned with wacky socialist ideas (you see, according to some friends of LP, airline alliances nowadays 'restrict the competition' - I couldn't make it up if I wanted) and curious preoccupations with anything in Dubai that comes from 'the former Soviet Union' (the author appears never to have let go after the self-confessed experience of being mistaken for an Eastern European sex worker), they would have more time to research something properly.      Like hotel prices, for example. What is that lunacy about? How can they be SO inaccurate? Have they even checked? Or were they too busy lamenting that there are few 'cheapies' (their world, not mine) in town that proper research was not a priority. Come to think of it, maybe it is just as well that there aren't many cheap hotels in Dubai, otherwise it would be full of people like the authors of this book and a city full of people like that would not look pretty.      You will see that in this thin guide so much space is takenby irrelevant 'general' advice (common sense or misguided information, much of which is recycled from other LP guides and which is either outdated, inaccurate or blindingly obvious to anyone who doesn't use the word 'cheapies' in daily life), that descriptions of things to see are so thin and short that they could have been avoided altogether.     Indeed, you will find more info about Dubai on Emirates airline website than you would in this incompetent and amateurish book. Waste of money - and another proof that LP should keep its unwashed hands off the places that do not particularly welcome the penny-pinching crowd.	2004-05-22
US	49607028	R4GBOSA0ZWTTV	0767915364	379700439	Howling at the Moon: The Odyssey of a Monstrous Music Mogul in an Age of Excess	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Better than I thought it would be. Complete success.	This could have been a tired collection of name-dropping and anecdotes, but it is not - Yetnikoff offers a gripping tale of driving in ultra-fast lane with no brakes.<br />Many books of this type are reduced to sorry self-important ramblings because their esteemed authors take themselves too seriously and view \\"stories of their lives\\" as something approaching gospels. They want every word in their folios to be significant. Some of them are under impression that they did not simply live their lives but went from one revelation of supreme truth to another. Yetnikoff, meanwhile, is endearingly immune to all this. His story of excess and permanent alcohol-, drug- and sex-induced stupor is told in a relaxed and unassuming way.<br />And, of course, famous names and their albums and songs really put this into the context of the era. I enjoyed every bit of the book.	2004-03-09
US	49607028	R2W3N9T7D17UDA	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	4	16	N	N	He doesn't have anything new to say	If you thought \\"Stupid White Men\\" was a lot of angry, inaccurate and unfunny drivel, wait until you read this one. Same mantras all over again - George W Bush, Enron, Kyoto protocol, how rich rule the world... And anti-capitalists are clapping their hands in ecstasy. Same old story.<br />In fact, I kinda feel sorry for them, because it does not seem to take a lot of effort to amuse those lefties and nearly bring tears of righteous indignation to their eyes. This talentless self-centred sorry excuse for a writer just keeps talking to anyone who would listen.<br />Old-school pinko artists (like Oliver Stone) at least had some talent. Their ideas might have been unacceptable to some but everyone respected their professionalism. Michael Moore just keeps mass-producing trash and making nice money out of it. He is not even a professional, just an incompetent fraud.<br />Liked his first book and Columbine film? Go on, buy this one too. You'll love it: it's more of the same.	2004-03-02
US	49607028	R2BB3KJA02WESY	0789494213	829493527	Rome (Eyewitness Travel Guides)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Outstandingly strong, still the leader	Eyewitness has transformed the face of a modern style guide and raised expectations worldwide, the guide to Rome is a good example of a one-stop book for your trip. If you are taking only one book to Rome (however, I will suggest that the Eternal City deserves more than that; I used it together with City Secrets and Access, with a very good result), Eyewitness Rome should probably be that book.<br />Very, very good maps and detailed, visually captivating and supremely usable charts of the main attractions are the strongest point of this book. In the obvious places like the Sistine Chapel and St Peter's it beats other guides hands down: the truth is, you will probably have very little time and the viewing conditions will be far removed from ideal, and the Eyewitness charts and pictures (often dismissed by snobs as too glossy and too nice) will be just what the doctor ordered.<br />Eyewitness Guide is far less detailed, even superficial, where less popular points of interest are concerned. This is where your second (or third) book will come handy.<br />I like brief but confident details of history, illustrated timelines and especially the lip-smackingly beautiful images of the Italian food. <br />Do not expect this book to give you too much guidance about finding everything on the cheap: it is not a backpacker's guide and does not pretend to be one. Guidance on hotels and restaurants is adequate but not awesome, it is evident that this is not the main point of the book. <br />While I am complaining, do you think they could get rid of this annoying cliche title: &quot;Survival Guide&quot;. What do you think it is, a jungle? How many tourists die trying to book a hotel and order a meal? Try to think before writing, and you'll be fine. And a little bit of livelier language would not hurt, either, because sometimes the style is so cautious it seems it was written by libel lawyers.<br />But again - overall a very good book, make it your first purchase before setting off toRome.	2004-02-22
US	49607028	R3A4SU3Q3C0E33	1864503114	67443340	Lonely Planet Rome	Books	1	2	3	N	N	Just sad. Poorly organized, boring, incompetent.	For some reason, Lonely Planet just cannot win with any Italian destination. Tuscany, Venice, and now Rome - all just plain bad. The book is more or less unusable: the good photo of the cover is probably the best thing of the guide. The rest is worthless waste of paper: &quot;deep thoughts&quot; and irrelevant ticket and accommodation advice (should be called &quot;How To Pay More For Everything&quot;), recycled and reused from all other LP guides, a fair bit of pinko rhetoric coupled with tired, uninspired and amateurish writing about the very things that make Rome enchanting. I do not know any other guide which would be just so hopelessly incompetent about sightseeing information as Lonely Planet. This is a triumph of cheap &quot;been-here-done-that&quot; backpacker, the swan song of the great unwashed. <br />Other guides are like well-informed friends that tell you about all the breathtaking sights of the most beautiful cities in the world. This one would be just a grumpy old malodorous fella who volunteers to spend his time with you: you've heard all his stories and he is a prejudiced and annoying smelly bore, but he'll spend time with you as long as you keep buying him drinks.	2004-02-22
US	49607028	R36A90KEL1N8EW	1892145049	628977591	City Secrets: Rome	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Five stars - but make sure you know what you're expecting.	This is one good guide: maps are remarkable, size - perfect, and the external qualities: paper, binding, typeface - everything whispers this discreet attention to detail, solid and reliable and trustworthy. <br />But please - do not take it as your only guide to Rome, for it is not meant for beginners, it is not a cheerful mainstream introduction. It will not give you most basic details or opening times or transport arrangements - just VERY subjective impressions, and suggestions from the people who know and love Rome professionally - architects, lecturers, artists. And however good maps are, perhaps you could do with a much more detailed one. I used a map from Eyewitness Guide, it worked very well together with this little book.<br />Approach City Secrets Rome in an open-minded way, never expecting that it will give you exhaustive account of what to see, and you are in for a treat. I loved every bit of its confident, unassuming and at the same time unashemedly elitist writing. The author opens with a story how he was buying a box of cubans in Rome and how the price was too much for him, a poor soul. Well, in my humble opinion, a student who can afford a box of Cuban cigars is kinda more or less sorted for cash, thank you very much. This episode does set the tone and the register for the rest of the writing: no comparative dumpster analysis of Lonely Planet school there, and, most importantly, no Lonely Planet treatment of a foreign city like a cheap shop which deserves to have every bargain cheated, coaxed and squeezed out of it. <br />You don't have to like the book's assumption that you should be able to afford any admission charge and a decent restaurant meal if you bothered to travel at all. So make sure this book's for you, and if it is - enjoy.	2004-02-21
US	49607028	R2F6TTE7UGQ0CM	0060520663	639545565	Access Rome 7e	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good approach and pleasant, but needs updating	Neighbourhood-focused approach is a pleasure, and color-coding works fine too, but they need to update the book more thoroughly (I know it costs money, but it should not be an excuse, they charge good money for the book).<br />Text is very readable and visually relaxing; while sparing use of colour illustration and old-fashioned drawings are pleasing in a strange way. Descriptions and background are a bit lightweight, but overall this is a pleasant book - perhaps as the second guide, to compliment Fodor's or Frommers.	2004-02-13
US	49607028	R2NFYVACP1FTQV	1740591623	980122332	Lonely Planet Japan	Books	2	13	19	N	N	Not impressive, despite some good aspects	In brief: in Japan, LP is miles behind Rough Guide, which in terms of helpfulness, detail and balance shines like a crazy diamond. There is no reason to buy it except for brand loyalty.<br />In detail: I am not a natural fan of Lonely Planet and Rough Guides, but on my previous trip to Japan, Rough Guide impressed me beyond belief - I found it the best guide on the market. This time, I decided to turn it up a notch and bought a Lonely Planet Japan.<br />I tried to approach it with an open mind - and I admit that it is much, much better than many Lonely Planets that I have seen. There is almost no cheap anti-American rhetoric (good job they kept spiteful fingers of Deanna Swaney well away from this one). The guide, however, did not think it was worth mentioning that Japan's Norhern Territories are still occupied by Russia and that this is one place on earth where World War II has not ended, because the two countries still do not have a peace treaty. Imagine now that these territories were occupied by the Americans: there would be many indignant passages denouncing imperialism of &quot;yankees&quot;. Not a big score on fairness front.<br />Most maps are better than cheap-and-lazy imitations found in many Lonely Planet books, and there is plenty of information on lodging beyond your local dumpster. <br />Even better, Lonely Planet seems to finally have ditched their senile ramblings on flight information and no longer focuses on irrelevant oddities of Apex Fares and Courier Flights. However, the book still maliciously avoids any mention of mainstream ticketing and hotel booking websites, making sure those who can least afford it are ripped off by &quot;youth travel specialists&quot;. I would like to hope they do that out of their usual misguided sense of political correctness - otherwise it is just a blatant product placement, which would be really hypocritical.<br />On the plus side, finally there are some professionally-made photographs and not granma's snaps made with disposable camera. Use of kanji characters alongside with main placenames and attractions is a nice gesture and helpful to those of us who have not commited themselves to systematic studies of writing in Japanese but would like to learn a sign or two.<br />The biggest criticism is that the guide is really patchy and chaotic. There is very little information on train travel times and frequencies. Hotel descriptions are lazy and pricing info is oftern inaccurate. <br />Descriptions of attractions are too varied in their quality to be reliable, and often look decidedly lazy. Lonely Planet often disappoints with their apparent &quot;been-there-done-that&quot; approach, where it seems like a traveller is encouraged to do some box-ticking and to roam around without any focus or genuine interest.<br />The Tokyo part is stunningly disappointing, while Kyoto and Nara chapters are more adequate. It seems that the authors do not like Tokyo much and just go through the motions. I liked Sapporo and Okinawa bits, which I thought were well researched and more inspired than descriptions of more mainstream destinations.<br />Non-geographic chapters on arts and cuisine are very good, but they are not sufficient to offset the general feeling of a weak guide. For many, a trip to Japan is an expensive and long-anticipated trip of a lifetime; you will need the best guide that money can buy. Lonely Planet is not up to task on this ocassion.	2003-12-23
US	49607028	R2Q2DH9ZQ9K7VP	1864501464	85401917	Lonely Planet Brazil	Books	2	10	12	N	N	Inadequate: Lacks focus and opinion; out of date	I never viewed Lonely Planet as one-size answer to all your travels: along with brilliant LP guides to strange and not-so-strange destinations (West Africa and Canary Islands are just two big success stories) there are sad failures (Iceland & Greenland, Bolivia and anything else penned by Deanna Swaney), marred with self-important ideological preaching, poor research and lack of any writing skills.<br />Brazil is somewhere in between. The book does not suffer from excessive ideologization and does not fancy itself as a latter-day Marxist's political history handbook. America-bashing was kept to a minimum. This is refreshing.<br />There is fairly good amount of practical info (some of it is out of date), although nothing has been done to address the chronic ailment of Lonely Planet: shameless recycling of \\"general info\\", which in most cases is either misleading or simply insults your intelligence. The guide, as before, has no idea how most people book ticket these days; and nuggets of deep knowledge and inside advice like \\"your camera can get damaged, lost or stolen\\" (you don't say - how many years of travel experience helped you acquire this rare insight?) makes you wish you could have your money back. <br />However, useless passages are essentially harmless (apart from making the guide thicker than it needs be). More regrettable is the stuff that's MISSING: that is, focus and helpful informed opinion. It seems that, once a traveller got to Brazil, got a place to stay and figured out the cheapest way to get around, he's not entirely sure why he is there in the first place. Descriptions of the places to see are lazy, unenthusiastic and uninspired. The authors seem to have been going through the motions.<br />With abundance of books on Brazil on the market, there is no compelling reason to stick with this one other than brand loyalty.	2003-11-09
US	49607028	RCR5EKG26JDZ0	0446532231	628954405	Dude, Where's My Country?	Books	1	17	46	N	N	From bad to worse: Dude, you call this writing?	I am not going to argue about the value of Michael Moore's convictions. I am here only to comment about his WRITING SKILLS, and he's got very few.<br />The man rambles, he cannot structure his thoughts in a constructive way: it is all about an outburst of chaotic, angry and not very witty thought. Yes, his convictions are deep - so what? Deep conviction does not make a good writer, and Michael Moore, sadly, believes he's got a talent.<br />He does not. He is a very passionate, very well-meaning and yet completely talentless man. If you like his ideas, fine, but please, do not pretend that you appreciate his literary skills, because it makes you look like guys who say that they buy magazines with naked ladies &quot;for the articles&quot;. <br />There is nothing wrong - I repeat - nothing wrong with having your own opinion about politics in America. But let me tell you one curious phenomenon about most enthusiastic reviewers of this book: they all seem to be pretty instructive on others HAVING to read this book. IT SHOULD BE MANDATORY. You MUST read it. Reading this book is your DUTY.<br />Back off, will ya? Do you think that people who don't think like you are this way simply because they haven't read Michael Moore's book yet? <br />In short - if you liked his film and the earlier book about Stupid White Men, buy it by all means. You'll enjoy every bit. For people like me, it's another proof of how much can be forgiven if ideological fundamentals seem to rhyme.	2003-11-05
US	49607028	RDTJCP02MXN1Z	0689852916	51905719	Olivia . . . and the Missing Toy	Books	5	26	30	N	N	Another Olivia, another winner - even if too deep for some	Olivia stories are written and drawn with all the stops pulled - Ian Falconer is now successful enough not to worry about agreed standards of children's writing and not to make allowances for those who fancy the predictable. <br />The plot line and the dialogue have the raw vitality that may surprise - and even, as we see from reviews, disappoint - some who expect a book to be more straight-forwardly didactic.<br />Yes, Olivia seems not to appreciate mum's effort in making her a new shirt and rewards dad instead by saying she loves him most - because he promises a trip to Piglet's World or whatever the name of the purveyors of piggy toys may be. YES, this is not a commendable behaviour - yet you know you've done that yourself. I know I have - not proud of it, but it's part of my childhood.<br />\\"But isn't the book supposed to tell a child it's wrong?\\", you may ask. Well, it could, but it does not necessarily have to. The child has parents who can I am sure confidently rely on their own judgment and discuss it with the child if and then they see it appropriate. I am delighted the political correctness and resulting blandness does not affect every book and some writers are confident enough in us readers to perhaps allow us to have some independent input.<br />This Olivia book is drawn as beautifully as any in the series. The bits where Olivia looks for the toy around the house with a candle-stick in her hand betrays Falconer's theatrical background in a delightfully tongue-in-cheek manner.<br />When I bought the first Olivia book I thought to myself; \\"I want to get every book by Ian Falconer\\". Several Olivias later, I still feel the same way.	2003-10-18
US	49607028	R6OUFO9S6KFTB	0932863299	375588475	Discovering America As It Is	Books	3	7	22	N	N	As far as America-bashing goes, this one's not too bad	Don't get me wrong: I disagree with Anelauskas on almost every count. We used to have long discussions with him over e-mail, and there are few people further apart than him and I in our thoughts and convictions. The closest things about Anelauskas and myself is that we're both Lithuanians.<br />I think, however, that in the crowded and ungrateful industry of bashing America this man is among the more skilled ones: definitely a better writer than the celebrated (but talentless) Michael Moore. Yes, in common with other militant left-wingers, Anelauskas rarely allows factual truth to stand in the way of his ideological convictions, but there are no shameless fabrications here or totally rabid ramblings that Moore often plunges into. <br />Anelauskas' research is impressive: he did dig deep to get all the facts and quotes together. This skill alone could elevate him to the rank of first-grade journalists; sadly, facts here are hand-picked only to support the ideas directed and shaped by ideology.<br />Anelauskas is candid: he does not conceal that his hatred of America is, in many cases, just sour grapes. He came to America with inflated expectations of a Soviet dissident and was let down. He now hates America with the same black-and-white passion with which he once hated the communist regime. Fair enough, but he never asks himself (and never responds when asked) - if America is so awfully bad, how come it does not have to build fences to keep people in, like Soviet Union had to do?<br />And if capitalism is so wrong and so bad for the people, how come you don't see queues of people trying to get to Cuba or North Korea? Valdas Anelauskas prefers not to answer this.<br />Then again, on the positive side - the man is a skilled writer and manages to keep his book readable and entertaining (not a bad achievement for a publication so full of figures and percentages). <br />It's probably one of the more enjoyable books which I managed to read back to back without agreeing with its author.	2003-09-08
US	49607028	RUR2D5I9AZHP9	1841620491	556309587	Lithuania, 3rd: The Bradt Travel Guide	Books	5	44	44	N	N	Best available guide to the country (at the time of review)	Make no mistake, I am no devoted fan of Bradt guides. I have read my share of shoddy, poorly edited, lazily researched and prejudiced Bradt guides. So I approached this book with a very healthy dose of scepticism.<br />The fact is, the guide is very well researched, very up-to-date; even airline info is accurate and relevant! That's actually a great compliment: most big and respectable (?) publishing houses like Lonely Planet are still struggling to come up with anything more substantantial than &quot;common sense&quot; (in most case, it isn't even that) factoids such as their supreme insult to inteligence &quot;pack as little as possible but take everything you need&quot;. But enough about Lonely Planet - they are my favorite whipping boy and this review is not about them.<br />So we agreed that Bradt is well-researched and accurate. The regional information (outside Vilnius and Kaunas and Klaipeda) is, at the moment, second to none; main cities are also covered very well. The writer had enough sense to seek extensive advise in Lithuania from everyone who is anyone in travel writing business. It seems that the (formerly) glorious publishers of Vilnius In Your Pocket (they were incredibly good before they overstretched themselves, spread their editorial effort too thin and apparently stopped investing into their famous gold-standard research) quietly helped Bradt with all their knowledge, in return for a modest and barely noticeable plug. Not fair? Well, maybe, but it helped Bradt.<br />This book is worth every penny. Besides practicalities, it has good articles on history and language and culture, too. There is very little to fault on content side. It looks like there's nothing missing, and I don't say things like this too often.<br />Having said all that, I am still not impressed with their graphic design. It looks amateurish; a bit of gloss and color and visual guidance would be in order. Some places look as if they were designed by your uncle in his free time onhome computer. Maybe it appeals to some people, but many will be put off, thinking - why should I spend good money on something that looks like a college newsletter? This would be a superficial reaction, but one which does no favors to publishers when trying to sell the book.<br />Overall, the book is still worth your money - by all means. For Lithuania, you don't need to bother with Lonely Planet, who were so far in the lead six or seven years ago that it seemed like no-one could catch up with them. Since then, LP stood still and Bradt evolved incredibly, and now fortunes are reversed. Again, at the moment (September 2003) there is nothing better on the market.	2003-09-02
US	49607028	RSM7IT98YMRKN	0749535792	864696225	Japan (AA Explorer)	Books	1	3	3	N	N	Useless. Bad maps. No focus. Don't touch.	There is the sad thing: sometimes big corporations like AA (and they ARE big in UK, selling everything from roadside rescue to insurance to travel booking) think they can also be publishers and sell books on the strength of their very strong brand.<br />I can almost see them coming up with the idea. &quot;Let's get someone to write this stuff, we'll get some nice pictures from agency libraries, some kinda map, and bingo!&quot; Sorry, it doesn't work like this. You need some knowledge and experience and skills in travel writing business, and just because it's a big business and you're a big company does not guarantee success.<br />The book does not position itself anywhere, really. It tries to be as pictorial as Eyewitness Guide or Insight Guide but there is a distinct feeling of everything done in a hurry and on tight budget. <br />As for practicalities, it doesn't even try. It's just an eclectic collection of semi-relevant factoids. You could write a guide like this without ever actually going to the country. <br />And for maps - who called them &quot;clear&quot;? They're awful. I could draw you a better map myself, and I am no cartographer. Map depicting a river and a dozen of main streets? Wow, that's helpful, thank you very much. It's good these guys are not in charge of defence or anything serious; on this occasion, they stayed in the business of producing a bad guidebook which hopefully not many people will buy. <br />Avoid like a plague.	2003-09-02
US	49607028	R17Y5A7GOX9ROF	2831572193	30786603	Berlitz Japan Pocket Guide (Berlitz Pocket Guides)	Books	2	1	2	N	N	Quick guide? Well, way TOO quick.	This guide is too small to do justice to the destination. There is only so much squeezing you can do before things start getting so superficial that they are rendered (almost) useless.<br />What might work for Budapest or Norway is not necessarily good for Japan: the country is so distant, so bizarre, so DIFFERENT that a guide has to explore more than merely an unusual twist put on familiar things. You need space for that, and Berlitz hasn't got plenty of space with this pocket edition, which is not so cheap, thank you very much.<br />One may wonder: if you are going so far, spending so long on a plane, spending so much money on your ticket - why would you try to save a few dollars on a guide? Or is it that you are SO concerned about the weight of your luggage? Well that suitcase WILL feel much heavier when you don't have a good map to guide you - and this book ain't got one.<br />You will find that, because of the size of the book, everything is scaled down to the skeleton coverage - and it's the small helpful bits in other, larger, books that make your life easier. In this book, they sure try to have colorful pictures here and there (and a few are nice), but there is just not enough text. Not enough background reading. Not enough cultural information. Not enough practicalities. At the end, you realize - why bother buying anything at all? You'll get as much info from an in-flight magazine, which by the way may have some helpful maps.<br />No offence to writers of the book, they tried their best and they have done beautifully in the severely constrained space that they had available to them. I can understand them, but this is not enough to justify the purchase of this book. Try Rough Guide instead - I'm not their best supporter and fan, but they've done a brilliant job on Japan. This is more than can be said about Berlitz publishers on this occasion.	2003-09-02
US	49607028	R3LDX0PQOISRYN	1582343497	288461545	Schott's Original Miscellany	Books	5	12	21	N	N	Buy it. You'll be glad you did. It's unbelievable.	You think I'm kidding? Look at this book's sales rank on Amazon - it's doing as good as Harry Potter. Can you believe it? And it's a book of trivia. Book of numbers, dates, names. It should be the pinnacle of boredom except for the nerdest of nerds - and yet you'll see yourself, and other (seemingly) normal, intelligent, educating people DEVOURING it. <br />You cannot put it down - it has to be pried from your fingers by your girlfriend or your wife, who will be forever wondering WHAT IS THE MATTER WITH YOU and who will forever say that yes, men are lesser species because look at what he's reading!<br />It is a book primarily for men - although it does not contain profanity or pictures of naked women. There is something in our brain that makes us memorize NATO phonetic alphabet and be massively proud of it (my name is Alpha November Delta Romeo India Uniform Sierra, and I can spell yours too, even when I'm drunk or looking at a poster of Liv Tyler) - this never happens to the gentler sex. Only a man will spend a Sunday afteroon driving around for no good reason. And only a man will read this book. A woman may take it in her hands, leaf through it and shrug her shoulders. \\"And you find THIS interesting?\\" <br />You know this look. You know this tone. It is a rare occasion when YOU will know what she is thinking (\\"my God he's really not that smart\\"); and she is AT LAST on the seemingly unreachable level where she admits EVEN TO HERSELF that yes, there are parts in man's brain she does not fully understand.<br />Read this book and you'll understand the magic. No, it does not address a nerd in all of us (we like to think we aren't nerds at all, we're massively manly and meat-eating and bike-fixing and rough, and no that girlie CD is not ours, it's our sister's, yes that's right); the book somehow touches the strings in our mind that create the most enjoyable learning experience. Even if this learning is, er, of limited practical application (although much of the knowledge contained there can indeed be useful).<br />Don't look down on trivia. Random facts and figures are no better or worse than seemingly deep-thought quotes that snobby types stuff themselves with. They're trying to pass themselves for educated, and sophisticated, and sharp. That's why they quote poets and that's why they use Latin phrases.<br />For the rest of us - people who can read and write - the objective is much more humble. With the help of trivia, we achieve a momentary gratification of IMPRESSING people on a base level. This is a play-ground dimension relating back to when you do something and other kinds think you're cool. We think we grew out of this - no, we didn't. Not really. I know I'm still a kid; and I'm pretty sure you're too, deep in your heart.<br />That child needs its candy - and this book is IT. Big bag of candy, as a matter of fact; it is as addictive as a big sheet of bubble-wrap (except you can't re-use bubble-wrap, and the book you will read over and over again).<br />And hey - while you will not earn any points with your current girlfriend for reading this; it will (probably) be helpful for picking up and impressing the next one. It's a bit like a fancy schmantzy car - a girl doesn't want to hear about its engine capacity or how the baby handles corners; yet she will (probably) not refuse to be driven in one. <br />Conclusion? Buy this book, read it and memorize it. Just don't leave on the passenger seat of your beamer.	2003-08-31
US	49607028	R2UQMWJ88K7QEN	2831569648	549632511	Costa Dorada & Tarragona Pocket Guide (Pocket Guides)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Lightweight in every sense - but no disappointment	Berlitz guides are not what you may call heavy-duty full-scale guides. They are cheaper - and also thinner on research, sticking to simpler matters and giving just a quick glance at the area. If you do not have excessive expectations, this book will not disappoint you.<br />Berlitz Costa Dorada is very good for a holiday-maker who will be spending most of the time on the beach and will keep cultural exploration as a firm second priority. For these travellers, a big and substantial guide (such as any thick book covering Catalonia) would not represent ideal value for money. <br />I found most details accurate and writing readable if uninspired. Again, you cannot judge this book by applying standards of a full-budget travel guide. Photographs are good, and some descriptions are in fact very honest compared to bigger brothers who often try to be too vague trying not to offend anyone.	2003-08-21
US	49607028	R2CGWUGBL6CSCR	0375812024	559528514	Richard Scarry's A Day at the Airport (Pictureback(R))	Books	5	30	34	N	N	Will make airports more exciting for your kid	Apart from the usually brilliant, somewhat old-fashioned classic style of Richard Scarry, this book has the added value of being a brilliant travel companion. If you spend a lot of time in airports, you'll be pleased that your child will view the same old routines - check-in, security, boarding - with a lot more informed interest.	2003-07-29
US	49607028	R2KIHZ0AZ6N4H2	1740591321	33523781	Lonely Planet Estonia Latvia & Lithuania (Lonely Planet Estonia, Latvia and Lithuania)	Books	3	55	60	N	N	No improvement upon the old edition	The best thing about this edition is its stunningly beautiful cover. It goes downhill from there.<br />The previous edition (was it around 1995?) was really, really very good; ahead of everyone in the business. I wrote a glowing review at that time. Since then, the countries have moved on at an amazin pace, but LP did not manage to catch up.<br />Cultural information is still good (and that is the area where fewest changes were needed). It is not as good with practicalities: the book is full of small inaccuracies - money, costs, payment options, transport information all suffer from lazy, complacent research. <br />Another sad fact is that the authors seem to draw upon their one-off impressions: waiters tipping themselves by not giving you the change, what's that about? Credit cards accepted in \\"main cities and towns\\" - well, hello, when did you last go to any of the countries? These things go on and on. <br />As for \\"Getting There\\" information, one wonders which planet are Lonely Planet researchers living on. Has anyone told them about the Internet? About cheap offers from the airlines? How long can continue with their ridiculously irrelevant drivel about bucket shops and courier flights?<br />A good thing that can be said about this Lonely Plant is that it is not of trademark \\"bleeding-heart\\" variety and that anti-American propaganda still has not found its way into it. You will have to get the Iceland guidebook if you want some of the most bitter, biased and unwelcome LP campaigning.<br />Overall, it seems like Lonely Planet is cutting costs, and the most recent thing that they have chopped off is proper research and verification. This is unfortunate, for the start was really good.	2003-07-29
US	49607028	R39XZAPZX8Z6ZC	0864426682	396585424	Lonely Planet Bolivia	Books	1	9	12	N	N	Just plain bad - with no redeeming features	I will not be able to add much to what other reviewers have said, but welcome to another opus from Lonely Planet's worst writer, Deanna Swaney. This lady has earned herself a bad name through writing which is more appropriate for an anti-capitalist leaflet and total lack of objectivity. <br />Outdated? Yes, even more so than the guide to Russia. Biased? Yes, pretty much on par with Iceland and Greenland guide. Inaccurate? You bet. <br />Recommendation: Don't touch this with a barge-pole, even if you are a die-hard LP fan.	2003-07-29
US	49607028	R1YHOWR105NA0S	1858286999	98366712	The Rough Guide to Japan 2 (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	5	159	167	N	N	Take it from hardened sceptic - yes, the book excellent	It is an uphill struggle to get me to praise a Rough Guide. I have written many unkind words here about many other books in the series - dull righting, self-righteous tone, preachy ambition - and I stand by what I had said. I continue to feel that travel is a happy business and guidebooks should be written by people who are positive and cheerful, not by grumpy and cruffy backpackers with enormous aptitude for righting the world and with handfuls of easy answers to every question of Third World economic developent. I am also convinced that a guide is not a forum for political campaigning.<br />So you can imagine I approached Rough Guide Japan with very, very low expectations. However, I can now say that whatever is wrong with other Rough Guides (poor writing quality, excruciating boredom, naive anti-capitalist rhetoric), you will not find it in this book. Whatever they do right (detailed research, up-to-date info, accurate maps) - there is plenty of it, heaps, loads, all you need! My God they are good. In Japan, they are better than DK Eyewitness, my long-time favorite for most destinations. They even finally sorted their writing - it is readable, and you don't fall asleep after first three passages.<br />I find very little to fault in this book: the maps are accurate, listings exhaustive and detailed, and they have most of the practicalities covered, unlike Lonely Planet, who still live firmly in their senile eigthties as far as any transport and banking information is concerned. And let me repeat this (listen all of you who, like me, detested Rough Guides for their oversized egos and belief that they have a role in fixing the world) - there is no usual garbage about how capitalism and tourism ruined a beautuful country. All the annoying whining is gone. The authors really like Japan, they admire it and help you to enjoy your trip. That's all I am asking for.<br />The only remarks would be that there could be more photos, and please, PLEASE, change those heart-stoppingly ugly chapter icons and tacky logo. I know you at Rough Guide use those icons everywhere, they're part of the design, but believe me they are hideous. Those drawings look exactly like something that adorned local authority leaflets cautioning against vices of drugs and smoking 20 years ago. And your logo looks like a fire exit sign.<br />I wrote earlier that DK Eyewitness Japan, although not perfect, was the best. Well, now I have read and used both DK Eyewitness and Rough Guide in the field. Rough Guide is much better. In fact, this Rough Guide is so good that, despite my earlier promises not to touch them with barge-pole, I will be checking out Rough Guide for all my future destinations.	2003-07-22
US	49607028	R1MOZSL161Z3N2	1740590600	353263309	Lonely Planet Kyoto	Books	1	21	37	N	N	Waste of money - poor maps, poor info, poorly organized	Where do I start? Poor maps, chaotic organization or boring writing? Or perhaps ugly, poor quality photographs (except cover which is really nice - this is the trademark feature of this honest  publisher, which is only [inexpensive] as far as publishing costs are concerned, without bothering to reduce the price of the book itself).<br />There are countries where Lonely Planet does a very good job (in West Africa, I would be lost without them), but oh my God how they can mess up things elsewhere! Kyoto is one of them.<br />With so many good guides to Japan available (Eyewitness, Frommer, Fodor, even Rough Guide, for goodness sake), why bother with Lonely Planet? Well, probably because many readers feel that they have a spiritual affiliation with this seemingly hippy-ish, seemingly anti-Capitalist, seemingly slightly rebellious serious of guides. I can only imagine how they are laughing - this lean and mean publishing house, an efficient money-making machine, being funded by mostly a naive bunch of tree-huggers.<br />If you feel good because you identify their sandal-wearing image, go and buy this book, by all means. This is only an image, a marketing tool - clever publishing people are laughing all the way to the bank. However, do not expect to have the best available travel advice. Usually LP guides are praised by those who have not read anything else.	2003-07-07
US	49607028	R11TFUS39OICOR	0887295886	754639735	Insight Guide Japan (Insight Guides)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Beautiful pictures - but hardly useful when travelling	It is very good as a coffee-table book: publishers pull all the stops with beautiful, expensive, high quality photographs. There are loads of good cultural and background information, and these articles also read well (unlike writings of some supposedly insightful books like Rough Guide which are terminally, heart-stoppingly, mind-numbingly BORING).<br />However, the guide is thin on practicalities, and all this premium quality glossy super-paper is too heavy to carry around. It is a pleasure to leaf through at home, though.	2003-07-03
US	49607028	RGL08WBGWD0VG	0789455455	428914450	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Japan	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Not perfect, yet still the best	I agree that this Eyewitness guide is perhaps best for shorter trips to Japan - depth is lacking for more extended journeys. It is perfect for main stops - Tokyo and Kyoto are covered really well, and there is a good section on more rarely visited Okinawa (you get the sense that the authors really love that most southerly of all Japan's prefectures). The coverage of other places is perfectly adequate for a one-day stop over there.<br />I can nit-pick on small things: maps could be more detailed, more subjective focus could be given to sightseeing in order to prioritize more meaningfully (Frommer is the best for this at the moment) and there is the old problem of being too sparing on useful websites. However, it is still head and shoulders above the competition, and if you want to lug around just one book, this is it.<br />The section on accommodation and restaurants is superb, I have not seen more inspired (and inspiring) descriptions and depictions of Japanese food anywhere else. True, graphic representation of communal bathing facilities in ryokan guesthouses made me firmly make a choice of a Western-style hotel; but at least I am glad that the guide was honest with me. <br />Transport section (buying railway tickets, finding your way) could have been more helpful and give some handy tips instead of noting that findining an address is pain in the neck. Language section is perfectly adequate for the scope of this book.<br />Unless you intend to spend more than three days in Tokyo or Kyoto, you really do not need separate guides for these cities.<br />The best thing? Guiding you towards reasonable prices and not selling the usual story of price doom and scare travellers off with proverbial $10.00 cups of coffee. Yes, you can spend this kind of money in Ginza - so what? You don't need to. Of course if you eat Kobe steaks and fugu fish every day, meals will be pricy. But who says you need to do that? What's wrong with noodle bars and bento boxes? Thanks Eyewitness fornot trying to bang the old drum of scaremongering and gently leading the reader through the maze of a totally different culture.<br />If you are going to Japan for, say, a week or ten days, this will be money well spent. Highly recommended.	2003-07-02
US	49607028	R2KD3QR9YM28N9	1864503572	636867200	Lonely Planet Tuscany (Lonely Planet Florence & Tuscany)	Books	2	11	11	N	N	Major disappointment - even Lonely Planet can do better!	Previous edition (2000) was very poor, and now this one is no improvement at all. <br />Lonely Planet has a long tradition for producing brilliant guides to less-explored destinations - and messing things up in a major way when they are dealing with places like Tuscany, or Venice, or New York.<br />This time, the problem is not the trademark self-righteous attitude or a preachy tone. It's just the general feeling of the guide having been done on the cheap. It's difficult to justify this - the book costs the same as every other guide on the market, thank you very much.<br />The other reviewer noted chaos and lack of focus - it is difficult to disagree. The guide boasts of \\"strict hierarchical structure\\" of its headlines - well, if you say so. It is very difficult to find anything, there are no visual \\"hooks\\" for easy navigation, and the only help in orientation can be offered by meaningless, heart-stoppingly ugly and amateurish drawings, placed here and there (they are worse than even chapter icons in Rough Guides that remind you of artwork adorning leaflets from a social security office or a community clinic). <br />And the photos - yes, I understand that they are not the main selling point of this guide, but just how CHEAP you have to be to find something like that (especially when they seen perfectly capable of finding excellent pictures for their covers)? What are these - your aunt's holiday snaps made with a disposable camera?<br />Maps are poor and confusing. How difficult it is to include a clear map - in color? How expensive would this make the guide? <BR>Information on tickets is so out-of-date and irrelevant that it beggars belief. People in Europe and America are finding cheap tickets on the Internet in ten minutes, low-cost airlines are all over the place, but somebody needs to tell Lonely Planet. The guide is like a senile grandfather who cannot stop talking garbage about his younger days: apex fares... super apex... courier fligts... Why waste paper onthis?<br />The same out-of-date irrelevance is true about Money section. Maybe Lonely Planet is on commission, but who uses travellers checks these days? (Probably same people who go to airline office ask for \\"apex fare ticket\\"). This is supposed to be a guide for shoestring travellers - yes, they will really appreciate the worst exchange rate imaginable and a commission of up to 10%. No wonder some people complain Europe is expensive - after guidance like that and leaving half of your money to banks and excange offices, there will not be much in your pocket to pay for lodging and meals.  <br />But the main reason why you should not bother to buy this book is its poor, uninspired and dull writing. No attraction, no treasure of art, no historic building is spared this indifferent and lazy treatment: it feels as if they didn't want to write about all these churches but they had to. This is strange: this guide often poses as a staunch critic of mass tourism and commercial crowds. Here, Lonely Planet adopts exactly the approach of box-ticking thoughtless crowd: \\"Been there, done that.\\" <br />To sum up - if you are planning to buy this, please think again. There are better guides for listings and practicalities (Rough Guide), there are better guides for signtseeing or culture (Blue Guide or Cadogan), and there are better all-rounders (DK Eyewitness). Even if Lonely Planet until now has been your favorite guide and you are a loyal follower, please think again. You will do yourself a favor.	2003-06-10
US	49607028	REPXOQ50QNZV5	0415121051	366224583	Colloquial Lithuanian: The Complete Course for Beginners (Colloquial Series)	Books	4	9	14	N	N	Not ideal, but then it's a difficult language	I would be lying if I were to say that this book will make learning Lithuanian very easy. It cannot possibly do that.<br />Lithuanian language is very archaic, very peculiar and very complex. What's more, there are too few paralels with modern European languages: unless you have some kind of linguistic background, the task will probably seem overwhelming. It is not like learning French or Spanish if you are an English-speaker.<br />The book comes in Colloquial series (this is your first clue for not expecting too much); it has been reasonably well written and edited, especially considering relatively undeveloped tradition of Western-quality textbook writing in the Baltics. <br />Frankly, one can do much worse than buying this.	2003-02-02
US	49607028	R31Z90384O358G	0415128579	685928376	Lithuanian Dictionary: Lithuanian-English, English-Lithuanian (Routledge Bilingual Dictionaries)	Books	3	17	19	N	N	In the absence of alternatives, this will have to do	No criticism of the authors, but it would be fair to say that the dictionary could be much better. <br />In essence, it is just an improved version of the Soviet-time Lithuanian dictionaries, compiled at the time when authors had little chance of travelling to an English-speaking country and had little familitarity with living language (you can still feel that most of the English vernacular relates more to Dickens than to modern life).<br />There is evidence of badly lacking knowledge of anything remotely economic or scientific: you will be referring to specialized dictionaries very often. It is fair to say that the book is good for a student or a casual user; any professional translator or linguist should have low expectations to avoid disappointment. <br />Significant work has been done improving the dictionary compared to previous editions, but not nearly enough. At the same time, publishing dictionaries is a notoriously expensive business, involving years of work by many people - something that no publishing house in Lithuania can afford at the moment. In the circumstances, it is the best dictionary available and it will have to do; there is still enormous room for improvement.	2002-12-09
US	49607028	RG2YCCCIQB1ME	0864426917	559462896	Lonely Planet Guide : Israel & the Palestinian Territories	Books	2	47	50	N	N	If only they spent more time on research...	...and less on campaigning, it could have been an excellent guide. Alas, alas. It would be unreasonable to expect neutrality and even-handed approach from Lonely Planet (although they almost manage it sometimes; the best I've seen was Canary Islands, by the way). Israel guidebook is one example where they feel their political opinion is so valuable that it has to be offered on almost every page.<br />I am no Middle East expert and I do not know who is right and who is wrong in the conflict - but in any event, I do not want my guidebook to preach to me. I buy guidebooks for travel, accommodation, eating and sightseeing information - and this part is only so-so. The guide has some helpful info (for example, about passport stamps and about beating the bureaucratic system - or at least minimizing its impact). The book has not been researched sufficiently and choices of hotels, for example, often feel they have been picked at random.<br />There is one thing you realize after reading about a dozen Lonely Planet guides: a very large part of the book is actually cut and pasted from one book to another. When you are paying for a Lonely Planet guide, you are paying for much less particular destination information than you imagine: there are pages and pages of generalities of no practical relevance. Why insult intelligence of a reader with gems such as \\"pack as little as possible but take everything you need\\"? I can think of no other reason but to artificially increase the volume of the book so it seems a better value for money.<br />As usual, information about \\"Getting there\\" is very, very poor. Same tired \\"advice\\" about buying tickets from discount travel agents (and you thought about buying them from your dry-cleaners, didn't you?), same behind-the-times feeling when it comes to internet (although now there is a reluctantly compiled list of travel sites, which conveniently excludes some of the biggest and the most helpful on-line travel agents, to which the authors are presumably opposed on ideological grounds).<br />Where sightseeing is concerned, the guide lack focus, descriptions are uninspired and don't feel particularly tempting. <br />There are many other guides to Israel, take your pick - but Lonely Planet is best left on the shelf, unless of course you want to have a full collection.	2002-11-27
US	49607028	R36D6C87WIUWZ9	0312305885	690999920	Let's Go 2003: Peru, Ecuador & Bolivia	Books	2	11	18	N	N	Let's go and get another guidebook	These are not my words (Bill Bryson takes the credit), and it is sad to see that the series has hardly improved in the past 10 years. <br />Let's Go might have had some audience (it is written by students, for students) at the time when shoestring travel literature was not as developed as it is now. Today, however, the guide inaccuracy, unprofessional writing and overall feeling of amateurish outfit is hard to excuse (do not be fooled by professionally-looking cover). <br />Travel writing is a serious business: you would not board a plane piloted by an amateur pilot \\"who is keen to have a go\\", why would you pay good money for something obviously not put together by professionals? You may do so out of solidarity with fellow students, but will this improve your travel experience? I very much doubt this. The students, after all, need correct addresses and opening times as much as any traveller.<br />Try Rough Guide or Lonely Planet instead.	2002-11-24
US	49607028	RMTGSSCXJDQ1A	1585732966	326468475	Peru (Insight Guide Peru)	Books	4	32	32	N	N	Good before and after trip, but not for taking with you	Insight Guides do not spare cash and effort on good photographs (some may say that there are too many photographs, which makes the guide too thick, too heavy and unusable for a traveller). <br />It is, however, more of a coffee-table book: try Frommer's, Rough Guide or Lonely Planet for practicalities. Insight Guide is not for carrying around (although maps are good).<br />You will find a lot of good reading about history, culture and mentality (which Rough Guide or Lonely Planet, with their dull and uninspired writing, cannot hope to match). However, there is sometimes an impression of missing focus: Peru is a beautiful country that has some obvious highlights and it is wrong to pretend (as the guide seems to) that the whole country is equally interesting.	2002-11-24
US	49607028	R37WB276T9OZZD	1860119220	544247506	ST. PETERSBURG	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Refreshing, sharply written, impeccably edited - a gem	St Petersburg is, generally, better covered than any other Northern European city in terms of travel writing: spectacular canals and buildings, relatively compact size, obvious highlights (including out-of-town estates) all make it a dream for any guidebook writer.<br />Cadogan made a better job than most. The first thing you notice that the sheer quality of writing. You feel you a reading A BOOK, not an anonymous travel guide. In this sense, I felt that Cadogan beat the spectacularly good DK Eyewitness Guide (my other obvious recommendation for the city): where Eyewitness can be predictable and kind of flat, this book feels more in tune with subtle northern charms of St Petersburg.<br />In fact, peculiarly romantic cities, where so much of the charm is difficult to capture and perceive logically, such as Venice or St Petersburg or Krakow, always present a challenge for any well-oiled travel publishing house. You cannot \\"crack\\" such a city using your standard procedures, you have to have a skilled writer and then - only then - build practicalities around the core understanding and feeling of the place. That is why there are so many guides to Venice and so few good ones. <br />I think Cadogan managed to deal with this task in St Petersburg - hats off to Rose Baring who researched the subject well and gained a good insight into this least Russian of all Russian cities. The guide avoids generalizations and cheap jokes at the expense of the locals, at the same time it is honest and detailed and relevant. <br />If you need more info on practicalities (although frankly I thought Cadogan was sufficient for that too), try Rough Guide (no inspired writing there I am afraid), who put all their effort into practical research.	2002-11-06
US	49607028	R223ANJY5RRU3O	0864427131	528935443	Lonely Planet Russia, Ukraine & Belarus (LONELY PLANET RUSSIA AND BELARUS)	Books	1	20	24	N	N	You may have to pick this one, but it will not please you	A good and usable guide to the entire Russia is still to be written. There are objective reasons for this - the country is huge, and 99% per cent of its territory has no hope of receiving meaningful numbers of tourists. Covering such an area adequately would be an incredibly difficult and expensive task; there is no travel publisher in the world at the moment willing to invest so much for so little expected in sales.<br />People who come to Russia mostly visit Moscow and St Petersburg, although a few also wander to the \\"Zolotoye Koltso\\" (Golden Ring) around Volga river - old cities of Vladimir, Suzdal or Uglich. If this is your case, the choice is easy: just pick one of the city guides (DK Eyewitness recommended - really the best, Fodor's Moscow and St Petersburg is also good, or try Rough Guide for less inspired but more exhaustive listings).<br />The question is - what to do if you go deeper into the country? Say, places in the Urals, or Russia's Far East? Well, you probably will have to dedicate a lot of effort to picking out nuggets of information from the Internet - preferably armed with some knowledge of the Russian language. Prepare your itinerary bit by bit, seek recommendations, write e-mails to people. It is time-consuming and requires effort, but you do not have a choice if you want to prepare for this trip properly.<br />Alternatively (an easy way, but not a good one) - buy this book, but make sure you have a pinch of salt on you. A spoonful of salt, rather. Or better make it a sack of salt. The shortcomings of this book have been noted by others: hopelessly outdated, inaccurate, poorly researched. There is a distinct feeling writers either did not visit some of the places they wrote about or spent very little time there. As for pricing information, you will be better off with a random number generator or a casino roulette than this book. I have never seen a guide where price information would be so disconnected from the reality. <br />There is also a matter of certain arrogance and disrespect to local culture, noted by one reviewer. Lonely Planet is famed for not pulling any punches and giving writers a lot of freedom to voice their opinions, but at times the feeling of writers' perceived cultural superiority is over the top. <br />So is this book worth buying at all? Well, maybe, if you don't mind carrying around something of very limited practical use. Luggage allowance permitting, you might as well have it - one out of five telephone numbers shown in the book might be still valid, some of the addresses may be accurate. Opening times? Here's rule of thumb: try between 10 a.m. and 5 p.m. weekdays, chances are, the place will be open. It may occasionally prove useful, for the absence of a better choice, but please do not have excessive expectations.<br />The same is true for Belarus - the country is no more welcoming to travellers than Libya or Sudan, nosy travellers risk imprisonment and serious travel writing is practically non-existent. You can try using Lonely Planet, or you can get an excellent listings magazine Minsk In Your Pocket.<br />For Ukraine, choices are better. The country is relatively well-covered by general Eastern Europe guides, there is brilliant Hippocrene Language and Travel Guide to Ukraine (by Linda Hodges and George Chumak), or Ukraine Culture Shock by Meredith Dalton. Generally, you will find Ukraine friendlier to Westerners than Russia or Belarus and, most importantly, not preoccupied by desperate superpower ambitions and constant need to reassert its greatness. <br />I gave this Lonely Planet guide one star not only because you have to give it at least one star under Amazon system. The book deserves a star because it attempted to cover Russia, Ukraine and Belarus first. Commendable ambition, but sadly, the result is very poor. Maybe they will put together a better team next time, give it a bit more time and check their writing more meticulously.	2002-11-06
US	49607028	R2TJJBT6PV5Z5E	1564588610	589444694	Venice & the Veneto (EYEWITNESS TRAVEL GUIDE)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Excellent job - you'll need very little to supplement this	Eyewitness did its usual brilliant job with Venice & Veneto. I bought many guides available to this city but took only two with me: DK Eyewitness and City Secrets (the latter one is an excellent assortment of subjective specialist views, get it if you take your trip seriously).<br />Descriptions of usual high-profile highlights and lesser-known places are clear and accurate, as usual, pictorial plans of churches and streets are very helpful. <br />Accommodation and dining sections are quite superficial, I increasingly find these parts not the strongest bit of Eyewitness guides: they tend to focus on most famous places which rarely represent the best value for money and often are shameless tourist traps. In fact, there is no need to list specific places - what the guide could do is present general guidelines on what to avoid (such as places with menus in five languages) and what to look for (places that don't take credit cards, for example).<br />I found the map of Venice at the end of the book completely sufficient and as easy to use as could be possible in the Venetian maze of streets of multiple names and multiple spellings. <br />Veneto part is not really the best bit of the book - Verona is covered only adequately and Padova receives simple an inadequate treatment. The authors probably had to find a balance between thickness of the book and depth of coverage.<br />I was pleased with coverage of less obvious areas such as Dorsoduro and Canareggio, which are still inexplicably ignored by 90% of visitors (well, maybe they don't have time).<br />All the criticisms above are observations of only minor glitches of what is a very, very strong guide and what probably should be your first choice for a trip to Venice.	2002-11-03
US	49607028	RL0HOJ1QWHNFX	1864503211	390901279	Lonely Planet Venice	Books	2	47	56	N	N	For Venice - anything but Lonely Planet. Sorry.	Some devoted followers of Lonely Planet will immediately click \\"NOT HELPFUL\\" to avenge this comment, I am sorry if this reviews disappoints you, but one has to be honest, right?<br />Yes, I admit I am not the greatest fan of Lonely Planet - although I recognize there are destinations where no-one does the trick better than this cheap-and-nasty house of publishing. In Africa, for example, Lonely Planet was the best guide available. But Venice, this magical and charming little patch of magic in the Adriatic? This guide is a joke, but I am not laughing.<br />The book is more concerned with righting the world than with doing its job. Do you want to read more of the same moans about evils of international tourism and how irresponsible travellers are ruining the world? If the answer is yes, go buy this book. It will certainly accomplish the mission of ruining all the enjoyment of travel to one of the most beautiful cities in the world.<br />However, if you need a travel guide, not a campaign newsletter, you will be better off with another book. A book which might tell you that all the tourist crowds in Venice occupy perhaps five percent of the city's territory, while the rest is the real Venice with people getting on with their lives, buying groceries in small shops and hanging their washing outside, Italian-style. Another book may show you how charming, how crazily enchanting and breathtakingly delicate this city is.<br />Maybe with another book you will realize that all the alarmist moans about Venice which will die in five/ten/fifteen years unless tourism is banned are just another shameless exagerrations, concocted by scaremongers and killjoys. <br />Writing is excessively dry and is difficult to follow or enjoy. I find it hard to believe that a reviewer was pleased with maps - they are just sad and amateurish, worse than anything that I have seen in my life, aside from Lonely Planet Iceland and Greenland, which is and probably will be the world champion of poor mapping.<br />This guide is not a match for Eyewitness or Fodor's, it does not even come close to being a good guidebook. Do yourself a favor - buy something else.	2002-11-03
US	49607028	R2HD1JUCJ30B8	0792279174	558726278	National Geographic Traveler: Venice	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Good guide, but competition is very tough	I liked National Geographic guide to Venice - it is colourful and cheerful; and it reads like it is written by someone who actually spent quite a while in the magnificient city. I appreciate the writing style which betrays an experienced travel writer rather than a bland-and-inoffensive travel book producer. This is a very good book and worth the money.<br />However, the market of Venice guides is incredibly crowded, and with such formidable all-rounders as DK Eyewitness guide I would find it difficult to recommend National Geographic as the first choice. <br />Nevertheless, if you are willing to do extensive reading-in before your trip and are willing to buy more than one guide, this is definitely one to consider (I would also recommed City Secrets). Pictorial part is superb and it is evident they pull all the stops when commissioning original and fresh location photography - you don't get tired shots of St Mark's square and black gondolas that seem to adorn every travel brochure or ticket booking website.<br />In addition, it is obvious that the writer went through all the trouble of finding off-beat, rarely-quoted facts that make reading rewarding and enjoyable. Just as well, because who needs another guide quoting Napoleon's words about &quot;most elegant drawing room of Europe&quot;? <br />The National Geographic is not particularly notable for practicalities - but then again, it could be just the job for a second-time traveller who is familiar with all the intricacies of airport transfers and avoiding overpriced eateries near St Mark's Square.<br />Overall - firm four stars, and a definite recommendation as a supplementary guide.	2002-11-03
US	49607028	RVRK9B7BPQVC8	1858287200	686848573	The Rough Guide to Venice & the Veneto 5 (Rough Guide Travel Guides)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Perfect? No, it is not. And it can bore you to death.	Yes, Rough Guide is comprehensive, it lists minor details and it is very strong on practicalities. <br />However, leaf through hundreds and hundreds of its pages and you may be excused for thinking you are reading a telephone directory. The book laboriously lists everything that there is to be listed, but it does that in a dull tone that lacks focus, inspiration and personal touch. I have seen tax planning guides that were more thrilling to read.<br />The information is all there, but you don't want to go through it. There is nothing to focus attention and nothing to thrill you - just a steady stream of facts and information. Sometimes, it seems they were trying put in as much as possible and to go for the highest possible number of pages. Thick book equals good book at Rough Guide publishing, but this approach does not serve all destinations equally well: what is OK for Africa is not necessarily true for most sophisticated and refined cities in Europe.<br />Maybe if I was about to settle in Venice for a few months, I would get a Rough Guide to keep myself on top of all practical info, but for a briefer trip you need more inspiration and more color. Travel writing is not the same thing as directory compilation, and this sheer sparkle of writing talent is something that is so distinctly missing.<br />Buying a Rough Guide or a Lonely Planet guide is very much an ideological decision: many readers do it because they feel that they subscribe to the same ideas about the world that form editorial policy of these two publishing houses. <br />However, if one is able to quite simply look for best guidebook which would make a trip enjoyable, Rough Guide Venice would hardly be one of them.	2002-11-03
US	49607028	R4KNX7DUPKZL0	0767912357	574332407	Ciao, America!: An Italian Discovers the U.S.	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Cheerful and good-natured	It is easy to agree with those who note that book feels distinctly out-of-date (notes on internet and cellphones, for example) - but this is the only drawback. <br />The book reads beautifully and author's skills as newspaper columnist are evident. Yes, columnists tend not to linger on subjects for too long and the quest for readability often does not allow for deeper analysis - but then again this is not an analytical book.<br />Many compare Beppe Severgnini with Bill Bryson. I think, frankly, that Severgnini has a distinct advantage of being much more good-natured than Bryson. The latter often gets annoying with his moralistic ramblings and who shamelessly exploits cheap stereotypes and cliches ...Thank God this book knows better than that.<br />In addition, Severgnini - despite being able to laugh at himself - does not assume the role of being stupid and proud of it, which Bryson loves so much. This is probably because, again, Severgnini is very, very good natured, this is something that endears him to a reader.<br />I was very pleased I bought this book. I hope you will be too.	2002-09-22
US	49607028	R17OHAURA28EAU	0380727609	962878942	Italian Education	Books	1	13	22	N	N	Dissapointing, little in common with his earlier success	Just like many other reviewers, I was very impressed with Tim Parks' Italian Neighbors (1992), which I thought was witty and well-written. It did justice to all the things I admire about Italy and, although the author tended to go on a bit, the book was very enjoyable.<br />I bought Italian Education on the strength of this experience and it was so disappointing I struggled to finish it. Boring and repetitive and focused on the author's child in a way that happens to all parents who can go on and on about their offspring - except that most parents know much better than to put their self-centered ramblings on paper. <br />I understand that after phenomenal success of Italian Neighbors the author had enormous credit of trust from his readers, and I am sorry he abused this trust by putting out this low-quality, underedited and bland book. It is a great virtue of a writer to understand that you haven't got much more meaningful to say and then shut up - but Parks clearly lacks this virtue. Maybe he needs to move to another country - but there is definitely nothing he can reveal about Italy any more. It is a shame he and his publisher do not understand that - or maybe they both were too keen to cash in on the existing reputation? I hope at least the publisher is embarrassed.<br />In future, I'll stay well clear of anything written by Tim Parks. I would not be surprised if many other readers do the same.	2002-09-22
US	49607028	R2TTB6G0XC2YVI	1892145073	269432499	City Secrets: London	Books	5	17	17	N	N	If you thought you knew London, wait until you read this	This new series is indeed a revelation: I bought \\"City Secrets London\\" after being most impressed with \\"Rome\\" and \\"Venice, Florence and Italian Cities\\", and London edition did not disappoint.<br />In the world where simplification is all the rage, these little books seem like a welcome greeting from a bygone era. \\"No nonsense\\" books they are not: some people may call these guides unashamedly elitist. Most of the contributors seem so knowleadgeable that many readers may feel the whole content is too high-brow for them. I would be disappointed if this impression were to scare readers off. However, author's decision not to dumb down anything has to come at a cost, and if that cost is losing readers who expect a dumbed-down quick cheap-and-cheerful guide to London of Beefeaters and \\"Buckin'-Ham\\" Palace, so be it.<br />Please do not mistake this for a proper guide which will give you general getting-around, hotels, eating-out and tourist highlight guidance. For this, you'll be better off with Eyewitness London. City Secrets is for people who basically know the city but want to find out little quirky things that other people miss (quite predictably and justifiably, because not everyone has time for in-depth look). <br />City Secrets is all about the stuff that all really good human guides use: nuggets of information, crafty access to places, best-view routes and other things which make all the difference between an average guided tour and a really memorable experience.<br />Contrary to what many casual travellers believe, London - although not blessed with relaxed Parisian charm or haunting and menacing spell of Florence - can be very cosy, friendly and pleasing to the eye and to the soul. If you think you like London and if you are likely to visit the city more than once in your life, you'll definitely need this book.	2002-09-19
US	49607028	R3BR8OYW3ZGVLC	0676901255	894531077	Fodor's Switzerland 2002: The Guide for All Budgets, Completely Updated Every Year, with a Pullout Color Map (Travel Guide)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	This should be your first choice	It is not easy to pick your ideal guidebook to Switzerland. Ideally, you would need more than one, but this should probably the one to start with.<BR> <BR>The guide is thoroughly researched and features good regional maps in addition to the map of the whole country. Listings are very good, although some may say they have been picked arbitrarily - which is understandable as no-one can possibly squeeze all the worthy places into a reasonably-sized book. At least you can be sure that whatever is included has been reviewed<BR>honestly and thoroughly.<BR> <BR>In common with other books from this publishing house, Fodor's Switzerland is laid out in a commendably clear manner. This may seem as a secondary consideration - but think of how often you will be browsing this before and during your trip. Easy navigation in the book really cuts out frustration and saves time. Do not underestimate this.<BR> <BR>Frommer's Switzerland does not have too many photographs - however, the selected few give you an idea and a visual taste of the destination. For a more thorough pictorial account, try Insight Guides. <BR> <BR>The book is also very good on practicalities - transport, opening times, costs - all seem to be very up-to-date (it is amazing how many guides treat practicality research as an afterthought).<BR> <BR>If you can, also get Michelin's Green Guide - it has some less well-known destinations that Fodor's guide omits for reasons of space. However, if you are only planning major highlights, you can very well manage with just this high quality book. You'll not regret spending your money.	2002-09-17
US	49607028	R28N3DTLHP80T	1564581845	900275615	Eyewitness Travel Guide to New York	Books	5	2	2	N	N	If you need an all-rounder, this is it	I have the greatest respect for Eyewitness Guides. Although usually I buy a few guidebooks for every destination where I travel, where Eyewitness Guide is available, it is my first choice (where there is no Eyewitness, my second-best choice is usually Fodor's).<br />Eyewitness Guides have had more than their fair share of unfriendly and condescending reviews - most of it coming from self-styled intellectuals or people who like to see themselves (often without a good reason, really) as being far above the crowd and &quot;dumb tourists&quot;. Eyewitness series has been criticized as too glossy, too beatutiful, too clearly laid out and ignoring backpacker's needs. <br />Most of this criticism is just sour grapes: it is difficult to deny that the guide is more visually appealing than almost anything else on the market, it is very clearly laid out and very well researched. And it is a joy to use.<br />If it is your first Eyewitness Guide, you will be amazed how clear and entertaining a book can be about buildings and museums. You will also wonder how come no-one thought of it before.<br />It is true that Eyewitness Guide New York may not be the best choice for the shoestring traveller; also, in all fairness, recommendations and listings of restaurants and hotels are superficial. As a city with breathtaking diversity of cuisines, New York surely deserved a better eating-out coverage. On the other hand, it is easy to see how space might have been a restriction - no-one wants a thousand-page volume in their pocket.<br />As the guide to a DESTINATION itself and the ultimate source of day-to-day reference - maps, transport, sightseeing highlights - Eyewitness is unbeatable. No wonder there are now many imitations of this style.<br />New York is unique in the sense that different people approach it with wildly varying expectations of what they want to see and experience: in this sense, cities like Paris and Rome are more one-dimensional - or, rather, there are more travellerswho aprroach them with predictable expectations. Therefore, for New York you will probably need anther book to supplement your special interest in this city, whatever it is - art, shopping, music, gastronomy, ethnic heritage or architecture. But I do recommend you buy Eyewitness guide first. Do yourself this favor.	2002-09-17
US	49607028	R149J9SEWFNTRZ	2060000041	366250675	Michelin the Green Guide Italy (Michelin Green Guides)	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Brilliant for smaller places	Michelin may be too superficial on mainstream places like Rome and Florence, but if you need a guide to cover destinations that are less obvious, this is definitely your choice.<br />Maps are very good. The system of classification and organization takes some getting used to (well, this is produced in France, what do you expect). And thank God they are not too shy to use plenty of pictures - apart from Eyewitness Guides, few publishers do this. <br />Language is not brilliant - it often has the &quot;translated&quot; feel. <br />Michelin is not very strong on practicalities - you will probably need something in addition to this for covering day-to-day questions. Generally, unless you plan to visit small places extensively, this would not be the first choice. Begin with Eyewitness or Fodor's, or a Frommer's if you are a newcomer.	2002-09-17
US	49607028	RXBSI8Q2CV09M	1892145014	412779782	City Secrets: Florence, Venice, and the Towns of Italy	Books	5	37	38	N	N	Not for everyone, but a must if you take travel seriously	This series is not for everyone and in most cases not for your first trip to one of the cities covered. The City Secrets is exactly what is says: secrets - small details, curious trivia, stuff you pick up from really good tour guides who gently guide you through the city revealing tiny nuggets of local knowledge here and there. It is a very friendly book, and the style of writing - a mosaic of bits of familiarity, contributed by individuals, is very endearing. There is a feeling of warmth about this publication.<br />A new or casual visitor may find this thoroughness and depth of insights of the guide overwhelming. This little book is unlikely to serve as the single multi-purpose travel resource for the glorious Italian cities covered. You will probably want to supplement it with some mainstream guide (try Eyewitness, Fodor's or Frommer's, for example) - a combination like this should work very well.<br />Unlike with most other books, a serious traveller will probably be captivated by ALL the writing in this book and will read it back to back (does this often happen with other guides? Don't think so...) You may find yourself willing to see all the curious things mentioned in this little book; most certainly you will want more of these books published.	2002-06-18
US	49607028	R34UG9UTQ6D7F	0689850883	762365996	Olivia's Opposites	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Another hit from the Olivia treasure chest	This is book is small and no less cute and adorable than its big brothers. If you like Ian Falconer's sensitive, amusing and endearing type of writing and drawing for children, this \\"companion edition\\" is a must. Great when teachning your child to read.	2002-06-09
US	49607028	R2VNDLAB63LZXE	1858281016	324186878	West Africa: The Rough Guide, Second Edition (1995)	Books	2	24	26	N	N	Not the best investment	At the moment, there are two main contenders on the market with comparable books on West Africa: Rough Guide and Lonely Planet. Neither is perfect.<br />Rough Guide may feel a bit more professionally-made, and has been made on a bigger budget too, but it suffers from terminally boring writing style.<br />I said this before and I`ll say it again: if people who write guidance for your tax returns were to write guidebooks they would probably come up with similarly uninspired language.<br />The book does not offer the same level of self-righteous (and often annoying) rhetoric about evils of capitalism as Lonely Planet. I find this aspect commendable: some of us want the travel guide to give us facts and not explanations for whom to vote and what to think.<br />However, on balance, I have to admit that Lonely Planet is better resarched and more accurate, and also less bulky. If you have plenty of luggage allowance and money's no object, buy both, otherwise, stick with Lonely Planet.	2002-03-28
US	49607028	RYEOHZNKJXUHU	0609808346	31822737	Dispatches from the Tenth Circle: The Best of The Onion	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Yes, it IS worth it - even though it is free on the web	You may ask yourself whether it is worth spending money on this book when the content is available on their website for free. The answer is yes - absolutely! <br />Somehow, on paper these hilarious dispatches are even better than on your computer screen. Trust me.<br />You will be reading it again, and again, and again; sharing it with friends and enjoying every bit of the exquisite dark humour will be a pleasure that will last and last.	2002-03-28
US	49607028	RV4EUJNYO0HZM	1841620300	684026143	Ghana, 2nd: The Bradt Travel Guide	Books	2	2	5	N	N	Author meant well, but meaning well is not enough	This is currently the only tourist guide available on the market dedicated solely to Ghana. The author meant well and put in a lot of hard work into the book - unfortunately, all this does not make it worth your money, unless you are specifically interested in the wildlife section which is well written and beats any similar entries in other guides hands down.<br />The book is now hopelessly outdated, almost all the information on prices is irrelevant even though it is given in dollars, the same can be said about accommodation and transport info.<br />The most painfully evident aspect is that the author may be a keen traveller but at the same time a very poor writer. Long sentences and chaotic structure of thought make reading a painful and irritating exercise. The book is poorly laid out and is near useless from practical point of view. <br />It is really a shame that the author`s undoubted travel experience did not benefit from professional editing of someone qualified for the job.<br />History chapter is a joke and cultural observations by the author, although no doubt is opinionated, is so breathtakingly naive and superficial that anyone who spent over two months in Ghana would simply smile. The most ridiculous is an allegation that corruption is not widespread in Ghana. The author has probably never set foot in any government institution in this country, where even local officials themselves admit that graft is totally out of control. <br />Both Lonely Planet and Rough Guide have good and more up-to-date West Africa guides, and you will find out from \\"Ghana\\" chapter in either of them infinitely more than you would from the Bradt guide. Of the two, Lonely Planet is better written, but the Rough Guide is more up-to-date.<br />Unless you are, like me, a guidebook freak and want to read everything there is to read about Ghana, do not waste your money on Bradt guide. Sorry Bradt, better luck next time, and please get yourself a decent editor.	2002-03-28
US	49607028	RTKTKSWF1I9NA	0864425694	434190604	Lonely Planet West Africa (West Africa, a Travel Survival Kit, 4th ed)	Books	4	39	52	N	N	Good for a shoestring traveller, one-sided at times	I once said I would never buy a Lonely Planet guide again, so disappointed I was with their Iceland and Greenland book which was poorly researched, inaccurate and full of rabid anti-American rhetoric.<br />For my trip to Ghana, it was, however, a choice of only three books available: a semiprofessional Bradt's Ghana (not a guidebook really, more an amateurish newsletter), supremely boring Rough Guide or Lonely Planet. I bought them all in the name of research.<br />I would say Lonely Planet is best of them all, although certain chapters preaching about evil ways of Western capitalism still reek of Lonely Planet's self-appointed role of bettering the world. Quite annoying, really, and in many cases hypocritical, coming from a lean-and-mean profit-making publishing house.<br />Most facts about travel, eating, accommodation, etc are accurate and well-researched, although as usual information to someone with a bit bigger budget is very fragmented. <br />They could give more information about useful websites for both ticket booking and accommodation.<br />Overall, if you are only buying one book for West Africa, this is the one. If you can get two - buy the Rough Guide as well: it may be boring and cultural information reads as if it was written by your local tax office, but you will get many additional addresses and phone numbers.	2002-03-18
US	49607028	R2GYIFF8I35WFN	0887294618	441713859	Insight Guide Finland	Books	5	31	33	N	N	Beautiful and clever guide to a beautiful country	All too often, Finland has been unfairly treated by many snobbish travel writers - too clean, too expensive, too Northern. For many of those identifying Finland only with mobile phones, the history, the architecture and the landscapes of this brave, spectacularly handsome and exceedingly talented country is largely unknown. This guide tells the story and shows the pictures in a friendly, seemingly effortless and hugely informative way.<br />The book - in common with other Insight Guide publications - is as beautiful as the cover picture suggests. They do not cut corners on buying top quality photos or commissioning informed articles, and it shows. The writing does not have the cynicism and grumpy attitude of shoestring-travel guidebooks: instead, it offers warmth and genuine attempt to look into the country and its people (not only to list its cheapest accommodation).<br />Insight Guides is quite laconic about basic survival within the country, but the pages that are there fully fit the task suffice. Moreover, in Finland, where the knowledge of English is practically universal and the system of public information about transport and other facilities is second to none, you do not need too much hand-holding anyway. <br />This beautiful and informative book is worth every penny.	2002-03-17
US	49607028	R2P5JZ9ULWTPLT	088685203X	808262391	Toefl Test Preparation Kit	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Matches expectations, good for almost any PC	I bought this for someone who had to get a formal TOEFL certificate for further studies. It did the job nicely.<br />The user interface (not the content!) is so basic you could call it primitive, but this is because it fits practically any PC that comes equipped with a CD-ROM drive, no matter what operation system it is running, no matter how slow the processor or limited the memory. <br />Instructions are clear and even the technologically-challenged find this material easy to use. Good product.	2002-03-17
US	49607028	R2YG0JDHVHG5Z5	0345441702	682329820	The Sicilian	Books	5	89	93	N	N	Much more than a mob story	If you thought Mario Puzo was just about American-Italian goodfellas who kill people, drive around and eat good pasta in New York City, you will be pleasantly surprised. The plot is set in Sicily, and the author's love and understanding of the long-suffering land shines through. <br />Mario Puzo presents a captivating, page-turning story about the life of a post-war Sicilian outlaw, his climb to the top of criminal hierarchy and associated betrayals, cunning treacheries and loyalty that never should be taken for granted. At the same time, you get a deep insight into the mindset and culture of Sicily and its people who, through centuries of suffering at the crossroads of occupation and oppression, have learnt to trust no one. Historical and cultural background is presented so subtly, inobtrusively and with such writing skill that you will not realize that you, in fact, read a brilliant history book. Never before have I seen a crime thriller that would also be so educational.<br />And, as an added bonus, Puzo is a true master when painting the scenery - dusky mornings, lush Sicilian gardens with fragrant lemon trees, ancient ruins and heat of the Meditteranean night. <br />Read this book and you will see that you have got much, much more than you have bargained for.	2001-10-02
US	49607028	R162FLC3Y3L3I	068982954X	324546570	Olivia Saves the Circus	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Even better than the first Olivia book	Just like the first one, this book about Olivia, a little female piglet growing up in a human family environment with her parents and two brothers. This time, Olivia recalls her imaginary trip to circus, where she saved the show deputizing for all the performers who were off duty. <br />The writing is witty, clever and funny, and not just for parents. Writing books for children is a very tricky business, and &quot;treating them like adults&quot; is the most difficult of all approaches. Many writers try that and end up with pretentious and overly complex stuff which bores a child after the first three sentences. <br />Well, this book is not like that - my daughter loved it and your children will too. Elegant, laconic and very cute illustrations let the child's imagination roam wild; the narrative resonates with the life of every family. You will not regret this buy for a moment.	2001-09-25
US	49607028	R1ORB9U5ZOMB8X	0689829531	632597912	Olivia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Cute and clever in an understated way	My daughter adores it; maybe because she is much like Olivia, the endearing female piglet with ballet aspirations and a desire to paint on walls.<br />The best books for children are those not looking down on them, where humour is grown-up and where the writer is not afraid to talk to a child as an equal.<br />Limited to black and red, laconic color scheme is very expressive and lets the child's imagination run wild. It is very subtle and will leave you smiling; your child will ask you to read this book to him/her again and again.	2001-09-11
US	49607028	R1RPLL03OEILX4	0767903862	430278994	In a Sunburned Country	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Just when I thought Bryson was running out of steam...	...he penned this book to prove otherwise!<br />I bought this book reluctantly, because I thought it would be another set of, frankly, quite predictable Bryson's jokes and his annoying moralizing. It is anything but - Bryson looks at the country (too often perceived as home of thick semi-literate rednecks) with genuine interest, admiration and goodwill, and these qualities result in a very, very entertaining and informative read.<br />The chilling account of gruesome fate of Australian aborigenes is relayed with compasion and sensitivity. Horrid details do not spare the reader; at the same time, the book avoids self-righteous preaching tone which was beginning to plague Bryson's previous books.<br />On a lighter note, some people may think that Bryson's self-confessed fascination with all that is deadly and poisonous on the Australian soil is a touch excessive - but I find these factoids about murderous jellyfish et al very interesting.<br />The book reads with ease and (unlike, for example, in &quot;Neither Here Nor There&quot;), you actually learn something new after you have finished it, on top of having really good time reading it.	2001-09-11
US	49607028	RTTBWM957CF8K	076890403X	981160723	Peterson's Guide to Distance Learning Programs 2001 (Peterson's Guide to Distance Learning Programs, 5th ed)	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Large, heavy, but do not hope for recommendations	This book is in fact just a directory. <br />Can a phone directory be useful for finding a friend or a date? No, because it only gives you a name and a phone number. The same is true about this book - names, addresses, websites, names of courses - but very little to explain what is good and what is a waste of money. <br />You will get all the names alright, but you will have to do extra research yourself.	2001-08-17
US	49607028	R1WWEHUYVGADUQ	076790382X	213092180	I'm a Stranger Here Myself: Notes on Returning to America After 20 Years Away	Books	3	9	11	N	N	Quite shallow but plenty of excellent bits	Bryson is a funny writer, you know this. This is, strictly speaking, not a book: it is a collection of Mr Bryson's columns written for a Sunday newspaper in UK. This puts certain limitations: the author has to keep his stories brief (not necessarily a bad thing, but prevents him from looking deeper into anything), AND - what is much worse - Bryson shamelessly uses British stereotypes about Americans. There is not much value in this: it is a basic newspaper columnist trade, putting popular talk into snappy language. <br />There are, however, many brilliant Brysonesque passages with insightful observations that make the book worth the money. Despite style which is mildly repetitive and thus irritating and flashes of hypocrisy (making a fortune out of his books does not prevent Mr Bryson from denouncing the system which pays him and which he exploits so skillfully), the book makes a pleasant read.<br />Sometimes it feels that Bryson should have been a stand-up comedian. However, Bryson's TV series broadcast in UK, based on his book about Britain (&quot;Notes from the Small Island&quot;), was a sad flop and yes, he should stick with writing - but not newspaper columns.	2001-08-16
US	49607028	R3V5RVF6WDFE9N	0380713802	280023223	Neither Here nor There: Travels in Europe	Books	3	4	7	N	N	This is not about Europe, but still funny	Although the book is loosely based on Bryson's old and new travels through Europe, you learn remarkably little about the continent. This is because Mr Bryson himself is too preoccupied with high cost of orange juice in hotels and memories of his teenage travels with a flatulence-happy friend to notice anything of interest.<br />Shallow anti-German and anti-Austrian outbursts do not add value to the book, and neither do annoying complaints about the costs of food in Scandinavia. Firstly, Mr Bryson is hardly a man who finds it difficult to afford a pizza anywhere in the world, secondly, his leftist admiration of extravagant social provision in Denmark somehow does not translate into understanding where all the money comes from.<br />This is a funny book, but you cannot help noticing that there was no need for Mr Bryson to travel to Europe: he could have produced something equally funny from his weekend trip to a supermarket or car dealer.	2001-08-16
US	49607028	R33I3XK8NDY8L3	0786866179	725713503	The Naked Chef	Books	4	14	20	N	N	From charm offensive school of cooking	Jamie Oliver is charming indeed and he may be trying to reverse the popular view that British cooking is dire, bland and depressing. However, some may find recipes too complex; I have heard people saying that the cost of ingredients is not in line with his claim to be a herald of simple cooking for simple people who do not care for fancy stuff. <br />The book in fact looks stronger than his TV series, thanks to ghost writers. On television, Jamie's lack of education (his vocabulary appears to be about 300 words strong) stands out so bad it hurts, even before you find out that he had confessed to never have read a book in his life. But then again, he is charming and cheeky and this continues to sell his shows and books.<br />On practical side, recipes - even the most complex ones - are clearly explained and the result does not disappoint. Photographs look tempting (in fact, it would be a good idea to ban all recipe books without photographs). This is one good solid cook-book; you will not regret spending your money.	2001-08-07
US	49607028	R1KXV6NDV4FG3V	1884656099	945341906	Antonio Carluccio's Italian Feast (Great Foods)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Elegant, enticing and supremely usable	Antonio Carluccio is better known in UK than he is in America, largely through his very relaxed and charming TV series. He also has a restaurant in London's West End, and although not cheap even by British standards, it is worth every penny.<br />Carluccio's recipes are very simple, and somehow it is immediately clear how everything works. Every ingredient is there for a reason, and he attaches very little importance to superficial decoration of the dishes. The beauty lies in their gustatory quality. <br />Even if you are not the world's best cook, success rate with Carluccio's recipes is incredibly high, which is I suppose the ultimate praise for a cook-book. <br />Carlucio insists on good ingredients, and tries to show the true essence of the Italian cooking really is: food originating from the love of life and cooking tradition that is several millenia old.<br />Italian food needs no better ambassador than this cheerful man, formerly a wine merchant, now living in London. Buy this book, try a few recipes, and you will be hooked for life.	2001-08-07
US	49607028	R2SBUJ2392O91W	1556508697	230515061	Charming Small Hotel Guides, Switzerland: With Liechtenstein	Books	4	1	1	N	N	More of the same, please	This is a perfect accompaniment to any major Switzerland guidebook that you may already have. A large publication would not bother with small places, however charming, and this little book fills the gap nicely.<br />There could be more hotels listed, but naturally this would make the book thicker and it would cost more.<br />The authors really pick out the best. The only caveat: the places they choose are so good that you have to book really early to avoid disappointment.	2001-07-17
US	49607028	R39PPWTTGREECJ	0679004025	4900480	Fodor's Norway, 5th Edition: Expert Advice and Smart Choices: Where to Stay, Eat, And Explore On and Off the Beaten Path (Travel Guide)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Complete success	If you are tired of guidebooks whining about Scandinavia being expensive, this is your choice. The book quietly assumes that if you want to go to Scandinavia, you are aware that it is going to be more expensive than India. Do not worry, it is not written for millionaires but it does not discuss relative merits of garbage bin contents, either.<br />Fodor's encourages you to travel to this wonderful country rather than tries to peddle doom and gloom message about &quot;clean, boring and expensive Scandinavia&quot;, as opposed among some guidebooks who feel as if they HAD to cover the area but really hated doing it.<br />Maps are very good, descriptions accurate and listings cover all you want to see there. I like my travel guides with pictures and these are in short supply there, but (as the previous reviewer rightly noted) the book is handy and light, and you do not want it thicker.<br />A solid and well-researched publication, and good value for money.	2001-07-17
US	49607028	RSVE6D675VGO	0789428687	147896491	Eyewitness Travel Guide to Sardinia	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Small gem from Glossy and Friendly house of publishing	If this is your first Eyewitness guide, you will be surprised just how good a travel guide can be. Lots of high quality pictures, and descriptions are detailed and accurate.<br />Those who prefer Rough Guide and Lonely Planet find Eyewitness &quot;too glossy, too nice&quot;. True: it is hardly a choice of anti-Capitalist demonstrator, but if you prefer colorful to gray and clean to dirty, you will like it. <br />I agree with the previous reviewer that it could be more up to date and include a few website addresses. I could add that the practical side (hotel and restaurant listings) could have more entries, but of course this takes a lot of research which costs a lot of money. <br />Nevertheless, excellent area and town maps are the best in the business and they alone could justify buying the book. Apart from the things said above, there is little that can be improved.	2001-07-17
US	49607028	R2Q6YEM6QWAAPU	0679003320	665317852	Fodor's Italy 2000: Expert Advice and Smart Choices, Updated Annually, with a Full-Size Map and Colo r Planning Section (Travel Guide)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Definitely one of the best	The Newsweek described Fodor's as &quot;king of guidebooks&quot; - and it really comes close to this. If this book had as many pictures as Eyewitness Guide, it would be perfect. Where it beats the latter hands down is its listings section, and town maps with indexed landmarks are very helpful.<br />European readers may notice that the practical tips are quite American-focused, but I do not see any problem with this. Most of the advice is applicable to any traveller. Money well spent.	2001-07-17
US	49607028	R4B2LSHNICTV5	0425122123	629388832	Clear and Present Danger (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Strong page-turner, but could be smoother	I will not be the first to note that Clancy loves technical gadgets too much. <br />I also find that sometimes sub-plot lines take too many pages to explore, I tried omitting the especially dull ones, and guess what - you still follow the plot perfectly, and the suspense does not suffer. <br />Generally, a very strong book. You could do much worse at an airport bookshop.	2001-07-13
US	49607028	R1FGWATS5W5P5J	0425106314	751193001	The Liberators	Books	3	2	12	N	N	Good, in-depth picture...	... but at times author's Russian-style sentimentalism and excessive selling of his own moral stance feels annoying. When reading about horrible, appaling things, the reader does need to have it spelt out for him &quot;the things you have just read about are really BAD, in case you missed it&quot;. <br />It is a bit like watching the majority of Russian films - most actors have superb but visibly theatrical, not cinematic, training. They SPEAK!!! INTO!!! THE CAMERA!!! And. They. Speak. Loud!!! They. Make. &quot;Meaningful&quot;. Pauses. Everywhere. To the point where all methods of emphasis are devalued to being meaningless. <br />You could argue - at least it is idiosyncratic. Maybe, but I could do without it.<br />Russians do not know the meaning of understatement. It is unfortunate that the author's extraordinary knowledge of the subject matter is not matched by his writing skills.	2001-07-13
US	49607028	R3OHV6KFYT0U7W	0060166053	127225670	KGB: The Inside Story of Its Foreign Operations from Lenin to Gorbachev	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Monumental but hardly captivating	This book tries to be both academic and a good read. Many writers stronger than Gordievsky failed when trying to achieve this. <br />The authors obviously have a wealth of material at their disposal, but somehow structured approach is lacking. Still, if you have time and/or deep interest in the subject, it is a recommended read.	2001-07-13
US	49607028	R1R98ULJ62Z0DO	0671689177	444650845	SPETSNAZ: The Inside Story Of The Special Soviet Special Forces	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good, by the author has done better	This is often too technical and not as captivating as his other books. Suvorov knows the devilish business of Soviet special agencies inside out, but really you only need to read The Aquarium to know all you need to know.<br />Not a waste of money, though, and could be a valuable aquisition for anyone seriously interested in Cold War history and Soviet special services.	2001-07-13
US	49607028	R3UT8KTF30A9F4	0345432401	684734174	Omerta	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Best Mafia story since Goodfellas and Godfather	I bought this book from an airport bookshop, before an early morning flight off on holiday. Once I was one-quarter through, I COULD NOT put it down until I was finished. Why is it that I always buy my favourite books when I have least time to make my choice? Just lucky, I suppose.<br />The plot is not over-complicated but gripping and tight, and the suspense is not inferior to that forged by Stephen King in his best novels such as Pet Sematary. I do not agree with the reviewers who said that characters are one-dimensional. If they are, this is because people are generally one-dimensional, they are either good or evil, honourable or low-life, strong or weak, but life puts them into complex situations with unpredictable outcomes. This is how the story of Godfather was built, and many other great stories. This is where the eternal appeal of Mafia tales lies, and this is what keeps a reader turning pages. Few writers, however, are capable of utilizing this tool with the same skill as Puzo.	2001-07-04
US	49607028	R3UO6IM5G2SFMJ	0864424531	318727899	Lonely Planet Iceland, Greenland & the Faroe Islands (3rd ed)	Books	1	11	20	N	N	Outdated, unhelpful and prejudiced	This is the last Lonely Planet guide I bought; this is to say that I will never buy a Lonely Planet again.<br />You would expect your guidebook to be accurate and provide information that you are likely to require on your trip. This book manages to fail miserably on both counts.<br />I bought this guide before travelling to Iceland. Begin from the beginning, and wonders never cease. In common with other Lonely Planet guides, this book is charmingly ten years behind the times where travel costs and flight options are concerned: author Deanna Swaney gives plenty of irrelevant information about costliest scheduled flights. <br />I have got news for you, Deanna: there is this thing called &quot;the Internet&quot;. Nowadays, trip to Iceland with low-cost airlines costs little more than a nice restaurant meal for two. &quot;Your plane ticket will probably be the single most expensive item in your budget,&quot; Ms Swaney says. It will sure be, if you follow her incompetent advice.<br />Let us move on. The section on visas suggests Eastern European citizens need a visa to visit Iceland. This is not true. Most of them have enjoyed visa-free travel to Iceland for about a decade now.<br />Now sort out your travel money (if, that is, you have something left in your wallet after buying your ticket Swaney-style). The book writes extensively about such anachronisms as travellers' cheques, eurocheques and postal cheques (when did you last hear of these being used?), but is it not simplier to pay by credit card, since these are accepted absolutely everywhere. Even Deanna noted, in her twisted style, that Icelanders are &quot;plastic mad&quot; - to her, anything more modern than abacus reeks of insanity. And ATMs are everywhere, not &quot;only in banks&quot;.<br />If you are one of those crazy people using what is known as &quot;mobile phones&quot;, rest assured they work fine in Iceland, but Ms Swaney ii yet to learn about their existence. To her, &quot;public phone offices&quot;, coins and cards are the things to use. Another handy tip on spending twice as much as you need to.<br />My personal favourite was Car Rental section in &quot;Getting Around&quot;. Listen to this: &quot;Even the Sultan of Brunei would think twice before hiring a car in Iceland.&quot; I shopped around and a major rental company offered me a car for roughly an average European price. <br />The truth is, Swaney simply hates all those car-renting, credit-card-carrying gold-amexed yuppies whose &quot;encroaching&quot; onslaught she esaped in Alaska.<br />Because of her ideological resistance to individual car travel, as opposed to buses, hitch-hiking, biking and other types of politically correct anti-capitalist mobility, the author chose to provide zero information about parking in Reykjavik. This would be some practical information I could use - without the benefit of speaking Icelandic I wanted to know what parking signs and parking meter instructions mean.<br />Now that I mentioned the language, let me quote this to you: &quot;One thing to remember is that proper names are declined as well as common nouns. This can lead to a great deal of confusion.&quot; Yes, Ms Swaney, but could you name one language which declines common nouns and leaves proper names intact? Perhaps if you were a bit more knowledgeable there would be no need to be confused.<br />I could go on and on. Maps are primitive and unhelpful, but no different from elsewhere in the series. Descriptions of places are poorly researched and incomplete (I looked in vain for a mention of Blue Lagoon, a very impressixe spa complex near Keflavik).<br />There is, however, some rabid anti-American hysteria about NATO military base (surely Ms Swaney would have no problem if there were Russian troops stationed in Iceland, but now the poor country, &quot;pressurized&quot; into becoming NATO's founding member, has to endure humiliating presence of &quot;yankees&quot;).<br />Is there one thing that is good in this book, you may ask? Oh yes, the section about alcohol. To Ms Swaney, so pressing is the need for alcoholic intoxication, that she made an exception in her own rules and researched the subject matter in depth. Booze shop opening hours, brands and their alcohol content are meticulously listed, including ABV Pilsner, which, according to Deanna, &quot;packs about as much punch as lemonade and can't be drunk faast enough to have any effect&quot; - and that effect you will need if you are stuck with this book.	2001-06-18
US	49607028	R1OKXDFRDXT6XX	086442678X	33523781	Lonely Planet Estonia, Latvia & Lithuania (Scandinavian and Baltic Europe)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Accurate, detailed and competent	In common with our Lonely Planet publications, the book is extremely  strong on research and honesty; the latter sometimes can border with  cynicism, but then I do not see anything wrong with this. It is perhaps a  good idea to have realistic expectations.<br />For getting around, lodging and  day-to-day needs, the book is superb (although upon arrival, you will also  want to buy one of locally published &quot;In Your Pocket&quot; guides -  these remarkable and inexpensive magazines are in the league of their own).  <br />Unless you already know a lot about the history and spirit of the Baltic  states, you may long for some more pictures and articles where timetables  and opening times are NOT mentioned. In this case, Baltic States by Insight  Guides can be recommended as a supplement - but by no means as a  substitute.<br />The Baltic countries, which do not have a streamlined and  shrink-wrapped tourist industry, are a destination where a Lonely Planet  guide is needed, whatever your budget. Lithuania, Latvia and Estonia are  friendly and well-developed, but even premium-paying customers can seldom  expect to be steered through their holiday or business trip without a bit  of understanding how things work. This book is a perfect tool fitting this  purpose.	2000-08-27
US	49607028	R53163GERSM8Z	057113842X	247910160	USSR: From an Original Idea by Karl Marx	Books	5	6	6	N	N	USSR: From an Original Idea by Karl Marx	This is a story of the USSR which is no longer there (except for its people who remain unchanged since 10 or 20 years ago). <br />Today, you don't have to pay a doorman to get into a restaurant, and floors at Moscow metro  are no longer &quot;fit to eat off&quot;. However, old ladies in the street  will still reproach you for wearing no hat in winter, and your new Russian  friends will still make detailed inquiries about your salary and incomes of  other &quot;typical&quot; people in the West.<br />This informal guide to the  USSR is very accurate and well-researched and the authors have remarkable  attention to every breathtakingly ridiculous detail of life in the State of  Workers and Peasants.<br />If you have never been to the Soviet Union, you  will think that some of the things described there are too grotesque to be  true.<br />If you know the Soviet Union well, you will be astonished by the  depth of the authors' knowledge; then you will be laughing out loud as,  page after page, you recognize one Soviet idiocy after another. <br />In  addition, the authors offer structured explanation of the things you knew  only empirically: i.e., brotherly nations are those which embraced  socialism; progressive nations are those which have not embraced socialism  but are not capitalist either because they are still working their way  through feudalism; hard currency is a currency of any nation which is  neither brotherly or progressive.<br />You will read this book in one evening,  even if this means reading until 3 a.m. You will then regret that you got  through it so quickly. <br />This book is a rare combination of first-class  writing talent, honesty, humour and a subject matter which ought to be  handled only by a writer who is capable of not taking even the grimmest  issues seriously.	2000-04-30
