US	49618969	R2TG8P0FMJJBNI	0910293023	887980886	Ed Parker's Infinite Insights into Kenpo : Physical Analyzation I (Vol. 2)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Super Fast, and a Wonderful Guy	Ed's writing reflects his powerful and gracious persona. Gifted in martial arts, he was also one hell of a ukulele player and teacher, as I learned when he and I lived across the hall from each other as freshmen at Brigham Young University during the first term of the academic year 1950-51. His uke playing, like his fighting, was super-quick, but he was slow to show impatience in teaching. This calm, Hawaiian style shows in his spiritual approach to martial arts. You will enjoy this book whether or not your main interest is martial arts. Read it to appreciate the approach of a master teacher at work. Ed was so effective in teaching that he taught me what I hadn't known was possible: playing solos on such a tiny instrument. Though I'm primarily Caucasian, Ed taught me well enough to impress a beautiful Hawaiian girl, a professional hula dancer who became my wife. <br /> <br />This book will give you the flavor of the man and his mission. I last saw him in the late '60s in the Washington DC area, where he was MCing a big martial arts event at which Bruce Lee performed an impressive exhibition. Ed was still the same classy, unpretentious and quietly helpful guy, even though he was world famous by then. Please do yourself the favor of reading this book. Though he died December 15, 1990, his ideas are still fresh and important.	2005-08-20
US	49618969	R1O7HT5YFZYY9T	0060723513	318377142	Mutant Message Down Under, Tenth Anniversary Edition	Books	3	4	6	N	N	"True" Only as Well-Intended Wishful Thinking	To understand the genre of this book's concept, think Carlos Castaneda and his mysti-speak Yaqui yarns. Since I am part Native American (Cherokee), married to a Samoan over 40 years, having lived and traveled among relatively \\"uncivilized\\" peoples for many years, I understand how an idealistic non-Aborigine could have thought that to spin this story would be a good idea. But native peoples themselves tend to understand their world quite differently from how overconfident outsiders think they do. Thus much of even Margaret Mead's professional anthropological study, Coming of Age in Samoa (most of which was not fiction as is Morgan's novel), caused both ire and mirth among Samoans, who recognized that various of Mead's case studies were spun, and others were based on Samoans' playing straight-faced jokes on her that she didn't catch onto before publication. <br /> <br />I sympathize and resonate with Morgan's intent of giving voice to Aborigine views and sentiments that we need in our increasingly technologically polluted world, but she got so much wrong that Aboriginal elders became incensed enough to make a transoceanic journey in order to protest a proposed film to be made from the book, and extracted an apology from Morgan regarding her untruthful and/or simply ignorant claims. <br /> <br />The book is interesting and readable despite Morgan's weaknesses as a writer, and one of my sons, a bonified lizard lover who has lived barefoot in that part of the world, loves it. If you read it, think of it as allegorical and colorful, like a brightly painted hippy bus of the 60s, and be open to its \\"spiritual\\" thought content, but don't mistakenly think of it as being an account of actual experiences. Again, think Carlos Castaneda with his wacky Yaqui sorcerer guide.	2005-08-18
US	49618969	R3C91ZJXEB3UKS	1569245991	121607455	Synchronicity : Through the Eyes of Science, Myth and the Trickster	Books	5	20	44	N	N	Five-Star Tour de Farce	I give this a five-star rating because it so engagingly and cleverly presents a scientific view of the alleged phenomenon of synchronicity, thus appearing to have dealt with it fairly. And yet the book is centered on a basic fallacy: the idea that synchronicity has actual existence. In reality, synchronicity is merely a label for a general category of illusion: the illusion of connectivity -- of meaning, between or among elements that in reality are unrelated and meaningless as a pair or set. If a person is thinking of Hershey's chocolate and then sees a Hershey's wrapper on the ground, this may seem to possess meaning. But in reality a sense of meaning is only an idea that the person projects upon, and assigns to, these two factors that are, in reality, most often unrelated. That is, though the name Hershey obviously relates the two factors, the fact that the person sees the wrapper after thinking of the name is not necessarily other than a meaningless coincidence. After all, we think all the time, and see things all the time, and sometimes a thought and an object seen will match. Considering the plethora of thoughts and objects, this is only to be expected. <br /> <br />Combs presents a seemingly credible, but merely strawman, account of the scientific view of synchronicity, leaving a door open for Combs' mystical scenario, which to any competent psychologist or mathematician is simply nonsense. In this regard, Combs' presentation is analogous to the way creationists review the evidence for evolution -- only enough to present a substantial-seeming strawman which allows the creationist view to then appear to \\"prevail.\\" <br /> <br />Realistically, each person's daily experience contains factors so numerous that, occasionally, two or more unrelated factors will seem to pair up in a related way. But this is much more reasonably accounted for by the human brain's pattern-finding, and therefore association-finding, tendency. Each human brain organizes percepts and concepts into arrangements that are meaningful for that individual. This is essentially the same mechanism that allows us to see faces in clouds, and lets us think that certain sequences of numbers on tossed dice constitute \\"runs of luck.\\" I think it's a shame that Combs doesn't fully develop the common-sense thinking that accounts for coincidences in sensible ways, but I do understand that if he had done so, he wouldn't have produced a book that appeals to mystical-minded readers as does this one.	2005-08-10
US	49618969	R23UYKK8G1KJFZ	074343658X	653120197	The Afterlife Experiments: Breakthrough Scientific Evidence of Life After Death	Books	3	14	27	N	N	A Masterpiece, of sorts.	Schwartz's book had been recommended to me by various readers who knew of my academic background at Stanford, Yale, Georgetown, etc., and my Ph.D. training in science. A few 5-Star reviews had been forwarded to me for evaluation. I was quite impressed. Then I read the book itself. <br /> <br />Oh my God, what a shock! Schwartz's book is embarrassingly and wackily unscientific. It so thoroughly ignores established principles of peer-review protocol that it seems best explained as having resulted from self delusion or cynical exploitation of relative ignorance of miracle-seeking readers, of whom there are millions in today's confusing world which is starved for mystical wishful-thinking answers to life's questions. <br /> <br />I think that there is little to be gained by my repeating here blatant errors that are already outlined in several of the 1-Star reviews here. The reason I have decided to give this book three stars is that it is such a masterful job of smoke-and-mirrors writing, letting the reader see that even nonsense can be defended in an interesting way. Schwartz's argumentation makes competent scientists shake their heads in despair at the shameful methods he uses to convince. But he is so skilled in the use of his nonsensical reasoning that I think he deserves three stars for the efffort. <br />	2005-07-14
US	49618969	R3P6ULRBJ9N1RL	0399152601	844067670	Don't Eat This Book	Books	5	5	10	N	N	Extremely Effective Presentation	I don't know how this could have been better written for its purpose, which is to awaken readers to the numerous profound problems of fast foods, using clever humor and punchy sentences that are as effective as constant left jabs to the jaw. <br /> <br />That's why I rated it five stars. On the other hand, it is not an entirely balanced treatment. (But remember, balance is not its purpose. Its purpose is to convince and motivate.) A main element of imbalance is that Spurlock fails to give McDonald's adequate credit for recent and highly significant upgrades in the quality of available items. Their new salads, for example, are respectably nutritious. So it's not as though you can't get a fairly healthful meal there.  <br /> <br />That said, I return to the main theme. Many fast-food companies, including McDonald's with their healthier additions, are still sources of way too much fat and sugar. Their burgers are still far more popular than the new salads. And the book marshalls a long list of major indictments against fast-food chains, the \\"restaurants\\" that are still the shame of American nutrition in the US, as well as exported to other countries.	2005-07-04
US	49618969	R7IONG0H6CZPO	0802117961	906072799	Guitar: An American Life	Books	5	21	21	N	N	The Best "Zen of Guitar" book out there!	This fabulous double account of guitar use and history is a great emotional ride any guitar lover can mentally jump aboard for an entertaining scenic journey. It took me back to the first time I heard flamenco in a music store, and ran home to get my sister so she could hear it -- and the hand-built Villafn classical I bought in Mexico City in 1958, the Conde Hermanos flamenco I bought in Madrid in 1960 and the Ramrez flamenco I ordered there in 1960, and waited for until 1962. Fifteen years ago I bought a hand-built Pimentel here in Albuquerque, for my son. We still have all these hand-made acoustic guitars; they're like members of my family. <br /> <br />My point is that I picked up the book as someone long experienced in guitars, already having read widely on guitars, yet found this Brookes book to add to my knowledge and become my favorite. If you're interested in the guitar, there's just no way you can go wrong buying this book. This is an author who really understands the soul of his subject.	2005-06-30
US	49618969	RSD8DBBZJ9050	1585424226	954061168	The United States of Wal-Mart	Books	5	59	65	N	N	A Masterpiece of its Kind	Though I'm not easily impressed by books, having been a reviewer for Choice, which is the premier university-libraries' reviewing service, I must say that Dicker's book is simply first class; it \\"has it all.\\" Dicker describes Wal-Mart's history, blood-from-turnip buying practices, management practices, hiring-and-firing practices, insider personnel issues, supplier nightmares, promotion-and-demotion manipulations, regional and national sales and growth-rate figures, political maneuvering, foreign-intrigue issues, and more. And he does it with exceptionally intelligent and witty humor. <br /> <br />What's especially fascinating is that he accomplishes the above while maintaining balance and sensibility. In other words, this isn't just a crass hatchet job; it is, instead, a highly competent analysis done in an engagingly entertaining way. To achieve that while laying out so many potentially dry facts and figures is a feat that only the most able writers can pull off.  <br /> <br />I honestly don't know how this book could have been better written, more credibly written, or more wittily written. To achieve all of that is quite an accomplishment. <br /> <br />I had already written the above review, and then decided to edit it to add this comment: If you know anyone who is thinking of working for the Wal-Mart corporation, at any level from management to doorway greeter, be sure to have them read this eye-opening masterpiece. (In addition to which, it's just one hell of a lot of fun to read. Unexpected laughs pop up everywhere.)	2005-06-27
US	49618969	R34T0VNIT54JOR	1564147045	845769327	How to Work for an Idiot: Survive & Thrive-- Without Killing Your Boss	Books	5	56	56	N	N	A great "Humor" book, miscategorized as "Business"	I picked this book up while with my son in a Kinko's copy shop, and was pleasantly surprised. As a past employe, then president and owner of two national-distribution corporations, I've read a variety of business books, and must say I disagree with the negative reviews here, based upon taking this book too seriously. I have found Hoover's book to contain marvelous, David Sedaris-style wit and panache, though I do acknowledge that its value as humor exceeds its worth as a practical workplace guide.    In fact, the book is such a humorous parody, it really should be catalogued as \\"Humor\\" instead of \\"Business,\\" as is inappropriately indicated on the back cover. A person who picks this up thinking it's mainly a business book can end up irritated, as other reviews here reveal.    I'll let just one example suffice as indicative of how humor is prioritized over practical business value. Hoover advises you to wear suits that are too large so that your boss will think you're earning too little to afford enough food.     In my opinion, the section on how to be promoted by being transparent and unnoticed, alone, is worth the price of the book. Essentially, in this section Hoover explains, tongue in cheek, how to advance yourself by being unnoticed until you're the last person standing, after the CEO has been arrested and the other replacement candidates are under indictment.     If you appreciate people like Sedaris and even Dave Letterman, I think this book will provide you a lot of insightful humor. I think caustic reviewers took this book much too seriously -- and -- seriously missed the point.	2005-06-21
US	49618969	R1NDP7DE0Z2X3H	060980796X	387333628	The Isaiah Effect: Decoding the Lost Science of Prayer and Prophecy	Books	1	25	48	N	N	What does Isaiah have to do with this?	This nonsensical book has precious little to do with Isaiah, making very little mention of Isaiah while dragging the reader from Tibet to Hopis in Arizona. Braden's baloney name-drops quantum physics, a subject matter that, clearly, he does not begin to understand but does know how to exploit for his mush-minded readers. What Braden also understands is the mindset of so many irrational readers who are positively triggered by words such as \\"Decoding,\\" \\"lost,\\" \\"science,\\" \\"prayer,\\" and \\"prophecy.\\" Combining all of these trigger words into one book title evidences Braden's marketing savvy, attracting the ignorant and the neurotic into a mire of mystery and mishmash. Even the brilliant writings of Carl Sagan do little to educate people away from irrational and pseudoscientific gobbledygook such as is displayed in this silly, silly book.	2005-05-22
US	49618969	RVB00Z2ENBIRA	1401902995	752840616	The God Code: The Secret of Our Past, the Promise of Our Future	Books	1	43	58	N	N	Pseudoscientific Lunacy	Only with great difficulty could one improve upon the May 1, 2005 Amazon review of this book by W. Christie -- a thoroughly competent and even brilliant review. But some readers may not have the patience to read through it.    Therefore in this review allow me simply to summarize the gist of this book's core fallacy, a fallacy so central and deeply fundamental that it discredits the entire book.    This core, devastating error is that Braden childishly ties together (a) letters used to represent DNA coding (which originated with scientists using English, which is not related to Hebrew), (b) the Hebrew name of God, (c) the order of letters in the Hebrew alphabet, and (d) the abject nonsense of numerology, which has been repeatedly and thoroughly discredited scientifically!   My Ph.D. is in linguistics, and I have provided professional instruction in Hebrew and other semitic languages. The order of letters in any language with an alphabetic writing system is essentially arbitrary. Additionally, to choose Hebrew as the \\"God language\\" is to ignore the history of how the Torah (that Christians call Old Testament) was assembled at various times by different writers, then back-dated with the claim that it was written by Moses.    Braden's entire book, therefore, is squarely centered upon the most blatant linguistic and historical nonsense, compounded by the ridiculousness of numerological claptrap.	2005-05-22
US	49618969	R2LCWXWCF54UO6	1594200661	841565298	Inside the Wire: A Military Intelligence Soldier's Eyewitness Account of Life at Guantánamo	Books	3	23	38	N	N	Tabloid-style Exposé	Because I was a Middle-Eastern languages dept. chairman for the US Defense Language Institute (where Saar learned Arabic), and because I've also done work for the CIA, FBI, USAF and USNA, I read this book carefully and made every effort to take it seriously. Perhaps the main problem regarding writing style lay with Saar's co-author (who did most of the actual writing) rather than with him, but the fact is that this is essentially tabloid-style writing that comes across like soap-opera conversations, and thus suffers quite a bit in the credibility department. The overly dramatic and \\"clever\\" tone seriously detracts from its real believability. Thus, though some or most of the incidents might have taken place as represented, there's just no way to determine where factual reporting leaves off and catchy embellishment begins. I think it's unfortunate that so serious a subject has received a literary treatment on a par with romance or adventure novels. And yet I give it three stars because, on balance, there's some worthwhile material in it.	2005-05-03
US	49618969	R2XQ9M1REHSK0	0670033375	635086986	Collapse: How Societies Choose to Fail or Succeed	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Jared Diamond is a National Treasure	This is one of the most brilliantly competent books I've ever read, a historical and geographical tour de force of detail and synthesis. One would be hard-pressed to overpraise Diamond's books, this latest being at least as impressive as his Guns, Germs and Steel. From the ancient Mayans and Easter Islanders to brilliant analyses of today's industrial-environmental problems, I can't think of a more recommendable book for anyone with any amount of intelligent concern for the future of humanity on planet earth. When Diamond makes a case, rebuttal is almost unthinkable. Please read this book.	2005-05-03
US	49618969	R2FF0K0M5G562B	1595550062	249479332	Liberalism is a Mental Disorder: Savage Solutions	Books	4	17	38	N	N	Good Points, and an Emotional Loose Cannon	Dr. Savage makes some excellent points about our unguarded borders and the resultant wave of illegal aliens. He makes some sense regarding fighting US enemies. But, despite his credentials, he expresses himself with emotional instability and unnecessary viciousness. Because I used to chair the US's largest Middle-Eastern languages dept., it's also clear to me that many of Savage's boilingly vitriolic comments about Middle-Easterners reveal very little understanding of how they see the U.S. and why. As just one example, there's no way to get intelligent and balanced information about Osama bin Laden from Dr. Savage; all we read are scathing insults worded as an angry middle-school student would do it. I am not on bin Laden's side, of course, but nothing is gained in understanding bin Laden as the enemy if the level of description and commentary is the kind of childish snottiness that Dr. Savage revels in. A much better way to get a far clearer view of the danger of bin Laden, and what to do about it, is by reading an emotionally balanced book such as, Imperial Hubris.	2005-05-03
US	49618969	R20KUELK5CK6DK	073820451X	491780218	The Anti-Depressant Fact Book: What Your Doctor Won't Tell You About Prozac, Zoloft, Paxil, Celexa, and Luvox	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Thoroughly Competent, "Tilted," but Not Biased	Dr. Breggin, Harvard-trained, is my favorite among psychiatrists and psychologists who have written on this subject. As he weighs \\"nature vs. nurture\\" as causes of depression, his comments emphasize environmental causes more than genetic or purely physiological causes. So why is this not bias? Because it's a valid view that needs to be stated in our social climate of overly pharmaceutical treatment tendencies. <br />Since publishing my report, Mormon Women, Prozac and Therapy (readable on the internet by entering that title or my name into Google or other search engine), I received responses from nearly 3,000 readers, nearly all of whom were women who agreed with the general comments of the outlook represented by Dr. Breggin. <br />Breggin is, above all, honest and fearless (he can afford to be, because of his ultracredible track record) in his warnings, assessments and general recommendations. While acting without a personal vendetta toward drug companies, he champions the position of so many women who have been whipsawed and manipulated by sometimes hapless physicians who too often have been in turn manipulated by under-educated drug salesmen who essentially parrot what the companies they represent have taught them. <br />I don't think it would be reasonably possible to recommend this book too highly, to medical professionals, therapists and counselors, and thinking readers in general.	2005-04-28
US	49618969	R39ZSTP1IJ3OY3	0805424628	71915797	Faith, Form, and Time: What the Bible Teaches and Science Confirms about Creation and the Age of the Universe	Books	5	15	31	N	N	Excellent Treatment of a Bewildering View	I respect Dr. Wise's credentials, having done my own doctoral work at Stanford, Yale and Georgetown. I also understand his orientation in that I have been a Christian missionary, as has my wife. All that notwithstanding, it is simply bewildering that a person capable of a Harvard doctorate can believe something so monumentally improbable as that dinosaurs and humans lived quite close together in time. I think this owes to a heavily indoctrinated limbic system (mid-brain) that exerts strong emotional control over what Wise's cerebral cortex is able to process. No one would prefer a 6,000-year-old earth more than I, since my church prefers that scenario. But it makes no sense to cram such extensive geological, anthropological, etc., processes into a 6,000-year timeframe. Even the thousands of languages currently spoken could not have developed in only 6,000 years, 2,000 years having been required to produce only a very few languages out of spoken Latin. <br /> <br />Also, the 6,000-year concept comes from the Bible, and only a relatively rudimentary knowledge of history is necessary to know that the Bible stories of creation were back-dated stories concocted by much later \\"committee work.\\" (See books such as Who Wrote the Bible, and Who Wrote the New Testament to understand how the Bible was put together.) The point is that the belief in a 6,000-year-old earth is an arbitrary concoction, as is adequately explained by the Documentary Hypothesis. <br /> <br />Despite the above comments, however, I think that Wise's book deserves five stars because it is an outstanding presentation of the point of view he takes -- as dramatically improbable as that point of view seems to me.	2005-04-27
US	49618969	R2WU4UHF3E6G8D	1573223085	396856567	A Whole New Mind: Moving from the Information Age to the Conceptual Age	Books	3	15	22	N	N	Interesting, but Simplistic and Superficial	There is no denying the points Pink makes in his opening chapters: <br />* Asia (China, India, etc.) provides labor at much cheaper rates than in the US, <br />* Computers do left-brain-type calculations and other data-crunching work faster than US (or any other) workers, <br />* It's difficult for advanced industrialized nations to compete with most cheap products and services of developing nations. <br /> <br />But the solution Pink suggests seems glib and insufficient: teach people in the US, etc., to do right-brain (right-hemisphere of the brain) creative work that the cheaper-rate countries can't do. <br /> <br />I think it's apparent that that is a glibly simplistic proposal. The average (\\"standard\\") I.Q. is just 100, and the majority of people in any society are not going to be good at creativity -- creativity, after all, is not the norm. Pink's concept is one that is not going to fit the majority in any country.  <br /> <br />But Pink seems cheerily unaware of that reality, presenting this giddy utopian idea as if it were a practical solution for the majority of US society (as one example) to transition into. <br /> <br />The book is a worthwhile read, but Pink's proposed new societal norm for the US seems somewhat silly as a realistic proposal.	2005-04-27
US	49618969	R3MNRQ6YG2RC5L	0525947531	701430074	The Ig Nobel Prizes: The Annals of Improbable Research	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Silly Science (& Some Serious Stuff)	Virtually all of the topics treated are a hoot to read, though this sometimes owes more to the comedic skill of the writers than the to the nature of each subject itself. <br />Case in point: Because of the tall coconut tree in our backyard in Kahuku, Hawaii, the first topic I read was the study of the physics of falling coconuts, finding it humorously presented while still of serious importance. Most people, not living near coconut trees, and even some natives in the tropics, seem not to take falling coconuts seriously, but one fell from our tree, rolled down one of the long leaves, carrying it far enough from the tree to leave an 8\\" diameter hole in the roof of a sturdy gazebo, which could just as easily have been our neighbor's shed (or head). <br />   To me, one of the more interesting accounts was of Dr. Cecil Jacobsen, a noted fertility researcher with whom I attended church for years in northern Virginia, who had decided to use his own sperm to impregnate many dozens of women, while telling them the semen was from other anonymous donors. The IgNobel Prize given to Dr. Jacobsen may not have seemed humorous to Cecil or his unwitting sperm recipients. <br />    You'll find a treasure trove of wacky and fascinating matters wittily presented in this collection, and you'll probably find yourself reading it aloud to your friends and watching them crack up (or maybe just watching their jaws drop). Some of the material is appropriate for all ages. (My 10-year-old grandson loved the study of Nosepicking Among Adolescents.)	2005-04-27
US	49618969	RLQWBKAF197R5	0060750480	782068783	Nature's Way: Native Wisdom for Living in Balance with the Earth	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Beautiful Animal Analogies for Earth Ecology	This is an intensely important book for our time. As part Cherokee, I relate to the Native American outlook in living in harmony with the natural world, and I love the author's use of each of various animals as representing a particular sort of ability and outlook that modern man needs in order to sufficiently detach from a technological mindset that falsely looks to ever more technology to save us from the pressing problems that technology itself has created.  <br /> <br />We need to remember that, during the recent Asian tsunami, various kinds of animals, including elephants, somehow sensed the approaching danger and fled to high ground before the waves struck the shores. This book is marvelous in its clever ways of catching our attention and helping redirect our attention to more natural ways of seeing and understanding.	2005-04-27
US	49618969	RYDLMGC9902M1	0060256532	582980871	Runny Babbit: A Billy Sook	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Gel the Shenius	Having raised (with my wife) five daughters and two sons, and my academic background being in linguistics, I've long been a standing-applause fan of Shel Silverstein's books for kids. He's just the best there is, and there's no one in his category. Along with Shel's inimitable illustrations, the text keeps kids laughing by reversing the first sounds/letters of pairs of words, so the book offers a kind of interactive puzzle solving as the reader figures out the meaning of each pair, making the book lots of run to fead.  <br /> <br />So here's Shel's triple-whammy formula: <br />1. His illustrations are consistently hilarious. <br />2. His rhymes and plays on words are original and comical. <br />3. His switched beginning sounds of word pairs sound and look funny. <br /> <br />Take it from me: kids will want to read this one over and over. You simply can't go wrong buying this one. Shel's no longer with us, but his mit and wagic will live on a tong, tong lime.	2005-04-25
US	49618969	R2UXZBCF3JVR5N	1400044065	215845910	Mi Vida	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Todo un caballero	(I'll write this in English and Spanish because speakers of both languages read these reviews.) Aunque no soy demcrata, tengo un gran cario para Bill, pues le conoc en la universidad de Georgetown en 1964 cuando era casi un chiquillo, y de veras se ve por su manera de escribir que todava tiene la misma personalidad. I met Bill in '64 at Georgetown, and his writing style shows he's still the same open and essentially unassuming guy he was then (no, I'm not a democrat). Aunque su estilo va saltando de manera parenttica, logra bastante claridad en lo que presenta. His style jumps around somewhat, but his conversational tone still gets his points across clearly. Aqu se presentan los pormenores y las estrategias polticas de su vida. He lays out the problems he encountered and the strategies he used to size up and win elections. Bastantes asuntos muy personales estn presentados sin recriminaciones ni disimulaciones. Lots of very personal matters are here presented without excuses or blaming of others. Les recomiendo este libro a los lectores que quieran comprender el corazn de este lder tan talentoso. Readers who want to understand Clinton's spirit should read this autobiography..	2005-04-25
US	49618969	R27G51SK86BADW	1401307892	914339172	My Depression: A Picture Book	Books	5	18	19	N	N	5 Stars For This 7-Star Book	The in-your-face, simple genius of this book is difficult to describe. I would not have thought a book of captioned cartoons could so powerfully and honestly draw (pun intended) the reader into profound, empathetic understanding of how depression feels as it is lived. If one picture is worth a thousand words, these hundreds of powerful pictures are worth far more than mere words could ever communicate. Everything about this book pulls the reader in, and pulls the reader along, effortlessly and entertainingly. <br /> <br />Additional power is gained in that the presentation is autobiographical, tragically painful in some portions, but exceptionally witty throughout.  <br /> <br />If you have ever been depressed, or know anyone who is or has been, please BUY THIS BOOK. I would like to recommend it to all the readers of my study, Mormon Women, Prozac and Therapy. Reading the book is, quite honestly, genuinely therapeutic.	2005-04-25
US	49618969	R3R6S7ORO36RK1	0911650067	106916658	Thinking and Destiny	Books	1	57	107	N	N	1,000 Pages of Non-stop Insanity	Having studied and taught in several of the world's best universities (Stanford, Yale, Georgetown, State U. of New York), I have read thousands of books, but never one as relentlessly nonsensical as Thinking and Destiny. Note this sample (p. 416): \\"If a lunar germ is not lost, but on the return path to the head rises higher than the station at the lumbar vertebrae where the psychic breath takes off Light in the course of the automatic reclamation, it is near the path of the solar germ and within the field of its influence. The solar germ then assists the lunar germ, by giving it strength as well as a push or pull upwards.\\"  As bizarre as the book itself are the glowing reviews posted here at Amazon.com.  These 1,000 pages of incessant craziness have been reprinted at least eleven times between 1946 and 1995, truly a testament to so many readers' irrational desire for this kind of preposterousness. One would think that in a scientific age such as ours, unsupported wild assertions would not be taken seriously by anyone. But very many people have no idea of how to evaluate evidence, and many are unaware even of the need for evidence. Thus, Percival is able to spout thousands of statements with no evidence at all to support them.    How anyone finds value in such wackiness is one of life's mysteries.	2005-03-25
US	49618969	R2IPA0L1C38XBD	1412005299	736966072	Messages From the Hollow Earth	Books	1	16	64	N	N	Popular Nuttiness for Hollow Minds	This book is a tribute to so many people's penchant for wackiness. One of my friends of over thirty years, a retired Continental Airlines pilot, has long been a believer in the hollow-earth concept, surely one of the few most screwball ideas of all time, especially nonsensical for anyone who has achieved any education in astronomy and/or geology. Robbins spins interesting tales about intelligent beings inside our \\"hollow earth\\" in the way that J. K. Rowling spins tales about Harry Potter and Hogwarts academy, except that Rowling's readers know that she is writing fiction.	2005-03-07
US	49618969	R1SA70Q9TVG3RI	0609600427	108740580	The Spontaneous Fulfillment of Desire: Harnessing the Infinite Power of Coincidence	Books	3	27	55	N	N	Helpful, but not for the clearest-minded.	Chopra's success follows his expert use of \\"market-formula\\" writing. His market consists of readers who are (a) unacquainted with the mathematics of probability, and (b) easily led into unsupported assertions and nonsequitors. Note this publisher's promo comment from the back cover: \\"You think of someone you haven't seen for awhile, then the phone rings and there he or she is.\\" His fans are impressed by such observations, not understanding that since people very often think of individuals they haven't seen, once in awhile one may then call. This is well known in science as confusing sequence of events with cause and effect. <br /> <br />Now note another publisher's promo comment: \\"You come up with a creative solution, to a life-challenging problem, then your best friend has exactly the same idea at exactly the same time.\\" The gullible reader, instead of recognizing that often best friends are best friends because of similar interests and thinking, leading to similar ideas and timing, this gullible reader allows Chopra to hang a mysterious meaning into this nonmysterious phenomenon.  <br /> <br />While honest and competent investigators world-wide question the existence of \\"soul,\\" Chopra simplistically brushes aside their honest inquiries, asserting an old-saw vedic claim that the honest and competent have been aware of for centuries, but that hasn't answered their honest investigations. Chopra glibly asserts the existence of his brand of soul, blithely telling us  (p. 76): \\"Once we define the soul as ..., becomes remarkably clear.\\" Well, of course. Once one tosses out a definition of something nonconfirmable, something else one then writes that's consistent with that definition seems clear. This clarity of consistency between definition and assertions is perceived by the gullible as \\"truth\\" -- a process that has been used throughout history to define and assert all the thousands of conflicting, contradictory \\"truths\\" that float around the world. <br /> <br />But Chopra also includes valuable and valid teachings, such as pp.199 ff. where he presents, \\"Your Inner Dialogue.\\" He is correct, and it is demonstrably true, that a person's internal self-talk is very important in molding attitudes and direction. And, in pp. 219 ff., Chopra presents, Harness Your Emotional Turbulence. This is also excellent material, which, ironically, is made more acceptable to his readers because his soul-teachings and supporting mythology are precisely concepts that help his readers to calm their emotions and focus their learning into productive directions.  <br /> <br />On pp. 238 ff., Chopra tells us, \\"You transcend death. You are the spirit that always was ansd always will be.\\" This is of course another of his unsupported assertions, but his readership is far more into feeling good than closely analyzing whether his assertions are intrinsically valid or just pragmatically beneficial. What makes readers feel good isn't looked at closely. <br /> <br />One of Chopra's valid observations is a rewording of the old \\"knowledge is structured in consciousness.\\" Chopra says it, \\"Knowledge is different in different states of consciousness.\\" A key to Chopra's success as an author and speaker is that he successfully brings hearers and readers out of \\"stuck\\" states of awareness, into freer perceptions of new possibilities. This helps his readers, many or most of whom are not aware of the manipulation Chopra has used to accomplish this beneficial transition. Chopra and Wayne Dyer are similar in their ability to inspire readers in this way. Preachers of hundreds of religions have done the same for their followers for thousands of years. Complete honesty, though it may be truthful, may not be so inspiring -- uplifting. Chopra uses his verbal gifts to bring ancient East Indian teachings to a 21st-century audience. This is why he has been able to author so many successful books.	2004-09-16
US	49618969	R3FYEPVMCEPS4R	0962994235	939376168	Your Body's Many Cries for Water	Books	5	350	359	N	N	One of the Few Most Important Health Books Written	Without condescending to read it, I had pooh-poohed the idea of this book for years. &quot;Who needs to be told to drink water?&quot; I thought. &quot;Everyone already knows that.&quot; Then one afternoon, by accident, I saw it on a reshelving cart at a bookstore, and flipped through it. My new reaction was, &quot;Oh, my God!&quot; There I stood, as a Ph.D. scientist, looking at the book I'd made fun of, and I felt like a fool as I read key sections in several chapters.<br />I bought two copies (one to underline, with marginal notes; the other to lend out), and read through it in one sitting, after which I looked up Dr. Batmanghelidj in Virginia and phoned him for an extended conversation. I found him very congenial, unpretentious and blazingly competent. Since that day several years ago I have recommended this book to hundreds of people, and I've provided free copies to many doctors, dentists and youth counselors.<br />Cocky, presumptuous health practitioners, even more arrogant than I had earlier been about this subject, find this book easy to dismiss if they haven't read it, and I identify with their foregone-conclusion mentality, having been there myself prior to understanding this book. To the rest of you, whether you believe you're knowledgeable about health issues or not, I can only plead with you to read this book and take it seriously. In my case, I had been repeatedly plagued by headaches and lower-back pain before reading it, but not once since applying its recommendations. The orthopedic section alone is worth the price of the book. If you know anyone with asthma, it would be tragic not to buy a copy of this for them.<br />In short, though I have read literally hundreds of books on health and nutrition, I consider this book to be, without doubt, one of the very few most important and immediately practical ever written.	2004-06-23
US	49618969	RX3L08D4W0RIQ	0962096326	184025762	By His Own Hand Upon Papyrus: A New Look at the Joseph Smith Papyri	Books	5	34	43	N	N	A Test of Faith, or, of Conscientious Research	Because my Ph.D. is in linguistics, it has been apparent to me for decades that the LDS church, despite the enomous good that it inspires in millions of lives, has very serious problems with the Book of Abraham, as Larson's book very competently and clearly presents.<br /> Often, Mormons will read this book and attempt to brush away the solid points Larson makes. And yet, all Larson does is to show, documentedly, that the papyri don't say what Joseph Smith said they say. <br />As I have known with clarity since 1968, which was shortly after the discovery of the papyrus pieces from which the Book of Abraham was claimed to have been translated by Joseph Smith, founder of the LDS Church, there is no similarity between what is on the papyri, and what Joseph Smith said was on them. This is a problem that is not made to disappear by ignoring it, but, on the other hand, the great majority of Mormons do not look into this matter far enough to discover the problems. So, for this majority, the Book of Abraham continues to serve its purpose of inspiration.	2004-05-17
US	49618969	R1IDYFQPUDB18W	0967686563	86124043	The Book of Mormon: Another Testament of Jesus Christ (Official Edition)	Books	3	22	43	N	N	Increasingly Problematical	As a lifelong Mormon, I am most astonished that the official Introduction to the current edition of the Book of Mormon STILL states that Lamanites (branch of an allegedly semitic family turned dark-skinned by a curse of God) are &quot;the principal ancestors of the American Indians,&quot; a claim that has been thoroughly falsified by massive amounts of competent DNA evidence from Native American tribes all over South, Central and North America, demonstrating that NO &quot;American Indians&quot; are of semitic ancestry -- in addition to the increasingly obvious fact that dark or light color of skin has nothing to do with alleged curses of God, and is only a matter of how close to the equator a group of people has lived over the millenia.<br />Also, though the Book of Mormon's stories are inspirational, their historical reality is increasingly dubious. This is a book that is just as socially important now, in the task of inspiring and managing youth who need religious inspiration and guidelines, but the book's historical credibility continues to erode.	2004-05-15
US	49618969	R38UZODRZO9UWP	1560275243	748809959	Glider Flying Handbook: #FAA-H-8083-13 (FAA Handbooks)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Finally!!	Finally! The FAA itself has released just last month (as of this writing) the instruction book that will likely become the standard recommended volume for glider-pilot prep among Americans preparing for licensing. This book covers virtually all aspects of knowledge necessary for VFR and IFR (visual and instrument) flight rules related to soaring.<br />Though there are quite a few interesting and informative books on glider soaring, the others lack the official stamp and aura of the Federal Aeronautics Administration itself. If you're preparing to solo and/or obtain your &quot;ticket,&quot; you might as well read the most official treatise, since it is bound to be the most dependable path to the kind of education you need for all aspects of motorless flight in today's amazing sailplanes.<br />In addition to its authoritative quality, as above, this book is also impressively complete, straightforward and easy to follow.	2004-05-15
US	49618969	R3TFA8HUJI7A1H	1573929425	344370538	Awakening of a Jehovah's Witness: Escape from the Watchtower Society	Books	5	66	80	N	N	Exactly On Target, but JWs Won't Read It	Diane Wilson has written a tightly, specifically documented book with exceptionally few errors or distortions (there are a few). <BR>Chap. 1: Explains how an early life of emotional put-downs prepares one for &quot;rescuing&quot; by organizations such as the Watchtower Society (Witnesses of Jehovah).<BR>Chap 2: Presents the emotional &quot;hooks&quot; that convince the convert he/she has found &quot;truth&quot; at last.<BR>Chaps 3-5: These chapters document numerous instances and methods of authoritarian manipulation and control, decreasing the convert's ability to trust her own thoughts, feelings or experiences<BR>Chaps 6-11 relate numerous emotional struggles as the author balances fear, hope, anger, distrust, against ongoing manipulation.<BR>Chaps 12-18 presents long lists of actual quotes from JW publications, displaying contradictions, inconsistencies, total reversals of &quot;truth,&quot; absurd official excuses and shame-building tactics, teachings alleged from God that resulted in adherents' deaths from following mistaken medical advice, etc., etc. It's quite a horrendous litany, all with volume and page numbers specified.<BR>Chaps 19-26 outline additional mind-control techniques and blatant absurdities that evoke laughter despite their tragic stupidity.<BR>The Conclusion and Epilogue contain Ph.D.-professional commentaries on how cults control believers, and related scientific data.<br />And I had thought that Mormons were criticizable under some of those headings! This book very competently demonstrates that the Jehovah's Witnesses are FAR ahead of Mormons in the manipulation race and zigzag-excuses techniques.<br />All that said, the fact remains that many people find relative fulfillment in Watchtower Society life, causing it to be among the fastest-growing churches in the US. As my exemplarily rational father used to say, &quot;There's nothing scarier than true believers.&quot;	2004-05-03
US	49618969	R34OPDHIEHYZ27	0971591105	877914379	Search for the Truth: Changing the World with the Evidence for Creation	Books	4	12	21	N	N	Excellent treatment of mistaken premise	Bruce Malone has assembled a helpful, highly readable book. I say &quot;assembled&quot; because the book is a compilation of newspaper articles. I say &quot;helpful&quot; because the book's audience will be helped by these ways to make creationism seem credible to many wonderful people of all ages as explanations of life's origins. The related problem is that the assumptions and methods of thinking are not convincing to mature people well informed by today's standards. Personally, I wish that creationism were valid because (a) I was raised to believe it, and (b) it projects a sense of benevolent purpose and meaning onto life. <br />The problem, however, is that just as life in all its forms isn't clearly understandable without evolution, evolution isn't clearly understandable with creationism or &quot;intelligent design&quot; as proffered explanations because evolution, whether we like it or not, has proceeded and proceeds in an unguided way. In short, the &quot;evidence for creation&quot; is not convincing to the most competent scientists.<br />The associated problem is that we as humans have not yet developed a readily accessible means of educating children at large, and managing social groups at large, without some form of creationist model that provides the sense of direction, meaning and purpose that most people emotionally crave. And, in the meantime, books such as this need to be written in order to shore up the needed educational efforts, which should in no way be disparaged.	2004-05-03
US	49618969	R11BJELT4ZI2TS	1401902154	409105258	The Power of Intention	Books	4	42	73	N	N	Half Helpful, Half Silly (Update)	NOTE: As you read this, note that my criticisms are (a) specific, (b) factual, (c) obviously correct. Then notice the reviewer who pans my review. Note that he is (a) anonymous, (b) not specific (fuzzy). Dyer's book appeals to feelings-based, fuzzy readers, not fact-based, science-knowledgeable readers. Dyer knows his market and does well in it since fuzzies outnumber fact-knowledgeable people many times over. Now to the review:<BR>Dr. Dyer, a very nice guy whom I like to hear speak, knows what sells and is inspiring, and knows how to combine benefit and provable absurdity to create another of his bestsellers.<br />This is actually a religious book, teaming inspirational, useful pointers with unsupported assertions. He pairs valid points alongside provably incorrect, even absurd statements -- uplifting ideas alongside clearly wacky nonsequitors.<br />Specific examples: On p. 8, he states that emotions are nonphysical, despite physiological (biochemical -- think Prozac? and Zoloft?) proof to the contrary.<BR>On p. 13, he states, \\"Obviously, it's impossible to have two infinites\\" despite the fact that there might be infinite space and infinite time, to mention just two.<BR>On p. 22, he states that an accidental death is part of perfect divine order. (Let an attorney try THAT as a defense!)<BR>On p. 26, he states that \\"darkness ... dissolves and disappears,\\" despite the fact that \\"darkness\\" cannot dissolve since it has no existence; it's merely a word meaning absence of light. (Does a flashlight dissolve darkness?!)<BR>On p. 29, he states that there is \\"unlimited abundance.\\" This is inspiring, but it doesn't help us understand our oil problem.<BR>On p. 70, he states that thoughts are faster than light, a claim for which there's no evidence, but lots of measured (brainwave) counterevidence.<BR>Also on p. 70, he adds that the spirit world is even faster than thoughts (which were faster than light, remember?), adding that \\"these frequencies are so supersonically rapid . .. \\" Hey, wait, Wayne, \\"supersonic\\" can be VASTLY slower than light, remember?<BR>On p. 74, he states, \\"foods high in alkalinity, such as fruits,\\" while the fact is that many if not most fruits are acidic rather than alkaline.<BR>On p. 76, he states that \\"every photograph contains energy,\\" offering as evidence that you feel the energy of happiness when looking at \\"photos taken in moments of happiness,\\" showing merely that you generate the feeling of energy by looking at the photo, rather than that the photo actually contains the energy, which is of course nonsense (apart from the fact that all matter is also energy [i.e. E=MC2], which obviously wasn't his point).<BR>On p. 86, commenting on \\"reputation,\\" he states, \\"you have no control over it at all.\\" (So walk naked down the street picking your nose, since that wouldn't affect your reputation!)<BR>On p. 106, Dyer states, \\"One individual who lives and vibrates to the energy of pure love and reverence for all of life will counterblance the negativity of 750,000 individuals who calibrate at the lower weakening levels.\\" Of course this is merely an unsupported wacky assertion for which he offers no evidence at all.<BR>There's more nonsense than the above in those 106 pages, and this is a 256-page book. But there's no room here to add examples.<BR>I repeat, though, that along the way Dyer fleshes out the book with lots of very useful advice. That's why this sandwich of good advice and easily documented absurdity is cruising at the top of the nonfiction bestseller lists. You go, Wayne!	2004-04-14
US	49618969	R3E044PEQ5CCFW	1593301111	28171385	Suddenly Strangers	Books	5	85	91	N	N	Clear, competent, articulate -- a masterpiece.	Among books on Mormonism, this would rate six stars if that many were available. The two brother-authors take you inside Mormonism, present and past, from two honest and intelligent viewpoints. You'll live with them through their upbringing, family life, missionary years, rearing of children. They'll walk you through an unusually masterful presentation of inconsistencies, contradictions and conundrums within the Mormon world (which I know well, having been in it from birth, still a member of record active on an infrequent basis).<br />Though the church's astonishingly massive lying is clearly and accurately exposed, it is done with understanding, not rancor or bitterness. Sordid reality is documented alongside of the wonderfully enchanting positive side that so many Mormons experience and that most public-relations descriptions feature.<br />This is poignant, powerful, lyrical writing, not ordinarily to be expected from a couple of \\"numbers-people,\\" not \\"word-people.\\" That is, an experienced reader would guess something other than math & science as the academic training of these surprisingly gifted writers.<br />For those who want a candid and clear view of the best and worst of Mormonism, there is no better book. This spectacular presentation is, without exaggeration, simply in a class by itself. (And, no, I've never met them and have no connection with them.)	2004-04-08
US	49618969	R3VXZ0DG8LXA3P	1580622038	553567143	Dog Whisperer	Books	4	148	171	N	N	Yes, that's right, but also consider ...	As an owner and trainer of many dogs and cats, and as a person whose Ph.D. is partly psychology-based, I loved this book, but ...<br />   The problem is that it best fits the person with ideal patience and ideal time-availability. It also best fits the person who does not have a very large, strong, determined, alpha-willed dog. There's really no secret here; education of animals (and people) includes both reward of desired behavior and negative reinforcement of unwanted behavior. It also depends in part on the genetic predisposition of the individual being trained. If there is enough time, and the dog is not a strong-willed alpha personality, working only with positive reinforcement can be effective. But many dog owners just don't have enough time, and some dogs are genetically aggressive, naturally domineering and stubbornly (even manipulatively) willful. My experience with dogs indicates that a few negative reinforcers are sometimes useful, and need not be harmful to the dog. For example, prong or choke callers need not be used harshly, but with dogs such as my 100 lb. male Bull Mastiff the extra control can sometimes be helpful because of his pulling strength and the toughness of his \\"bull\\" neck as he suddenly lunges after a bird or squirrel, etc.<br />The book's insightful comments on developmental psychology, explaining aspects of canine emotional and cognitive maturation  at different ages are, alone, worth the book's price. Dogs, like children, best learn certain attitudes and behaviors during growth periods that occur at specific ages which the author outlines. He mentions, for example, that dogs are especially sensitive to negative input from eight to ten weeks of age, which is due to the type of brain development that occurs at this age. The author explains that negative-conditioning mistakes that occur at this age often require months or years to attempt to undo. Those of us who have adopted dogs that experienced unfortunate treatment during that age knowthat these \\"childhood\\" experiences in dogs often leave lasting behavioral scars that sometimes barely, if at all, can be undone.<br />Overall, this is an outstanding book, but the methods recommended work best for people with lots of time for patient training, and with dogs of relatively cooperative temperament.	2004-03-30
US	49618969	R1MMBMI7RUOW7Q	0879759267	586242966	The Encyclopedia of Biblical Errancy	Books	5	19	24	N	N	Best list of unarguable errors	Though I've owned this book for years, each time I pick it up I find nondebatable biblical errors I hadn't focused on before. This book could serve as a sanity test for anyone claiming to be a biblical inerrantist, since so many hundreds of clear-cut errors, blatant contradictions and dramatically preposterous absurdities are quoted with complete references and commentaries. Though I was a Christian missionary, and have a doctorate in linguistics from Georgetown, a Catholic university, I nonetheless am amazed by the sheer quantity of clear errors that McKinsey catalogues.<br />I rate the book at five stars even though the author occasionally throws in unnecessary, emotional harangues that detract from the otherwise scholarly treatment. Also, a few of his examples of errors are in themselves erroneous or overly stretched to make his point. That is, McKinsey is not an emotionally detached person. He makes it clear that many of the Bible's absurdities, contradictions and blatant injustices make him angry.<br />On balance, though, the book is in a class by itself, being the overall best and most complete listing of outright mistakes and even crazy nonsense (by sensible standards of today's educated person).<br />It is a testament to people's need for inspiration that the Bible has survived as a best-selling inspirational book while, along with the good material, also containing so much stuff that is so easily demonstrated to be utterly wrong and flat-out wacky or worse.	2004-03-25
US	49618969	R3LX8M26HP22IB	0374178909	420223521	American Jesus: How the Son of God Became a National Icon	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Rohrschach, object-in-the-clouds Jesus	In addition to many valid comments made by other Amazon reviews here, let me feature perhaps the central underlying concept of Prothero's book: the general concept that divinity, like beauty, etc., exists in the eye of the beholder. Jesus has been like a Rohrschach ink-splotch exercise: &quot;What do you see here?&quot; Different viewers of the same ink splotch see varied kinds of faces and objects. Prothero has revealed the history of Americans' &quot;thing-in-the-clouds&quot; Jesus, analogous to children who look at the same cloud and see no recognizable shape, or a dog, or a flower, or their uncle Henry's shoe.<br />Prothero's book, that is, doesn't focus on the question of WHAT, or even IF, Jesus was or is. Prothero lets us see that the Jesus concept is principally that, a concept, one that lets individual minds see a reflection of what occurs cognitively and emotionally in his/her own head and heart. Each Christian denomination, then, merely presents a particular view, which attracts a particular kind of convert who mistakes that particular view as &quot;reality.&quot; Each denomination then presents arguments for their own view, eager to convince other religious &quot;viewers&quot; that their doggie in the clouds is the real doggie, and that the viewers who don't see this doggie lack sufficient faith, or righteousness, or status as one of the chosen who recognize the &quot;truth.&quot; Jesus, that is, serves as an anchor of private and personal limitations, and then provides motivation hopefully to grow beyond those limitations.<br />The realist will expend no effort on deciding whether the cloud or the Rohrschach splotch IS a dog or person, etc. The realist will recognize that the cloud is a cloud, and the splotch is a splotch. Anything else is but a mental projection superimposed onto that reality, leaving people to argue over which mental image has more validity. Prothero does a magnificent job of laying out the American history of this cognitive/emotionalsyndrome.	2004-02-22
US	49618969	R3FIJRP100KMV3	0525947582	875917513	Quitting America: The Departure of a Black Man from His Native Land	Books	5	35	44	N	N	Crisply Crafted Masterpiece	First off, know that I'm white, not black, so my glowing recommendation isn't &quot;one brother supporting another.&quot; Robinson's writing is quietly impassioned, Koppel-crisp, calmly clear. His observations on the US's political, military and social errors are beautifully, intelligently, prudently stated. I found it hard to argue with Robinson's emotions or logic, which he exquisitely balances in simple yet powerful, unarguably honest descriptions.<br />Though fed up with what America has been and has become for him as a black man, his observations and opinions echo much that my wife and I have felt for years. He has chosen to move to a smaller, simpler, more honest and direct society in the Caribbean, and he describes the steps to that decision in spartan prose reminiscent of a Thoreau or Hemingway.<br />Reading Robinson is akin to contemplating the clean lines of Danish furniture. This is a book that, aesthetically and ideologically, deserves to be read. I can't imagine any sensible, sensitive and honest person being disappointed by this gracefully and skillfully crafted book.	2004-01-30
US	49618969	RUELRDCBPFKSD	0658017225	734943648	Going Against the Grain: How Reducing and Avoiding Grains Can Revitalize Your Health	Books	5	115	122	N	N	A Vital Signpost, even Billboard.	Though every diet \\"simplification by food-type elimination\\" is necessarily a distortion of nutritional reality, which is complex, Smith's simplification by grain elimination is VERY helpful for many, if not most, typical eaters. Since most grains must be cooked to be chewable/digestible, it's obvious that grain eating is not natural in humans' evolutionary past. (Chew on raw wheat kernels to appreciate this fact.) In addition, most grain consumption, among Americans at least, is unfortunate in that wheat is the most-consumed, the most problematical regarding allergenicity, and the most commonly debased by bleaching and removal of higher-nutrient portions such as the germ and bran, etc. Refined grains, especially the bleached variety such as typical bakers' white flour, are simply an abomination and as much a health scourge as hydrogenated fats which, tragically, are often combined with refined-grain products in packaged crackers and chips of many varieties.<br />In the nutritional counseling I've done for four decades (I'm 72, very fit w/no gray hair, etc.), I've always recommended NO refined flour products, and greatly prefer the grains quinoa, amaranth and spelt over the more commonly available grains. In my experience, Smith's recommendations are very much on track, including her comments on the advantages of increasing pH toward the alkalinity side (away from the acidic side) by reducing grains and eating more dark-green, leafy vegetables. (Spelt and millet, by the way, are less acidic and therefore more conducive to better human biological terrain in the body than are wheat, rye or oats.)<br />There is no single key to the ideal diet, but Smith points most readers in a direction that is highly probable to improve their eating pattern, their energy and their emotional well-being.	2004-01-28
US	49618969	R2W9KBTMY50YGI	1410753840	434366122	Farewell to Eden: Coming to terms with Mormonism and Science	Books	5	110	126	N	N	Crisply logical, competent, respectfully presented	Pristinely logical, soundly scientific, honest and heartfelt, this is a superlative and very DIFFERENT sort of examination of the claims of Mormonism, a subject the author knows in depth of detail, having been born and raised in the faith. Unlike many religions, Mormonism makes numerous very specific statements that can be scientifically tested. Anderson's chapters walk through a highly competent examination of astronomical, biological, archeological, geological, etc., claims, asking the reader to decide whether Mormonism's claims in these subject areas square with what is now scientifically known, staying with what has been demonstrated with near-conclusiveness or exceptionally high probability.<br />Anderson's geology chapter explains why since, in the creation story of the Mormon scriptures, the \\"absolute time scales are wrong, and the relative time scales are wrong, and the order of events is wrong, then everything is wrong that can be wrong.\\" <br />His astronomy chapter states, \\"It's hard to imagine two ways of looking at the cosmos more different than modern cosmology and LDS doctrine. ... More massive stars tend to rotate faster ... This is the opposite of what we see in Joseph Smith's cosmology where the greatest star in the universe rotates ... only once every thousand years. ... According to LDS theology, the sun and other stars get their light from Kolob  ... [but] the sun's source of energy is internal, and not external; it does not get its light from any other star.\\"<br />His archeology chapter states that the claims of the Book of Mormon \\"disagree in almost every detail with the scientific evidence.\\"<br />Anderson's final chapter poignantly describes the difficult adjustment of lifelong Mormons attempting to come to terms with their realization that so many acknowledged scientific facts are not sensibly reconcilable with LDS doctrines.	2004-01-26
US	49618969	R39M2MX170PC3Z	0252060121	364002105	Joseph Smith and the Beginnings of Mormonism	Books	3	23	60	N	N	Articulate, credentialed, public relations	The three stars are for textual organization, grammar, spelling and punctuation, not for credibility of content.<br />Staid and stolid, this reads like a government report. Rather than being a balanced and objective history, Bushman's book is primarily a P.R. piece in support of a respectful makeover of Mormonism's colorful founder and his ecclesiastical creation. As an accomplished historian, Bushman certainly knows far more than he discloses. In his chapter, &quot;The First Visions,&quot; for example, he describes Joseph Smith's reported 1820 vision as if he actually thinks such an occurrence took place during that year, given the fact that ample documentation demonstrates that it certainly could not and did not. Bushman also omits the evolving variations of the claimed 1820 vision, and the LDS Church's officially presenting an 1838 version very different from the one Joseph wrote in 1932. <br />Numerous blunt inconsistencies and contradictions regarding the Book of Mormon's production are glossed over, ignored or distorted in similar fashion in Bushman's chapter titled &quot;Translation,&quot; which omits, for example, competent textual studies compiled by Brent Metcalfe and others.<br />In my opinion, this book needs to be read alongside Duwayne R. Anderson's book, Farewell To Eden: Coming to Terms with Mormonism and Science, or Grant Palmer' book, An Insider's View of Mormon Origins, both of which deal with the subject matter in a more forthright manner than Bushman's LDS public-relations treatment.	2004-01-23
US	49618969	RLB56RO1GDXDH	0312280432	749210097	Latter Days: An Insider's Guide to Mormonism, The Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day Saints	Books	4	15	30	N	N	Excellent but seriously flawed	This is an excellent presentation of what Mormons are taught to believe and what most do indeed still believe, worded in the sacred tone in which Mormons have learned to appreciate and revere it, but this is accomplished by injuring, skating past and ignoring various historical and scientific discoveries that unhappily disengage from important parts of the official story line. To get the most balanced perspective, the reader may want to read this alongside of that of another insider, Grant H. Palmer, whose more recent book, An Insider's View of Mormon Origins, conducts the reader on a backstage tour, explaining how the current extravaganza was put together over time.	2004-01-14
US	49618969	RE9E871JAU3AL	0743227123	91077146	The Fabulist	Books	5	23	47	N	N	Fablemeister's con-primer	Having been entertained by a couple of Glass's New Republic articles and seen the movie, Shattered Glass, I rushed to read his book. I rate it five stars not for its writing quality, which is notably lacking, but because it's so instructive in that very lack. A gifted con artist such as Glass, like a gifted jazz musician or athlete, has a gift for performance but not necessarily for analysis or description. A Paco de Lucia, B.B. King or Michael Jordan isn't the best at ex post facto commentary. Stephen Glass could live the story's improvization, but not later explain the story of his story. He could whip out brilliant licks and riffs in the heat of action, improvising in mid-step and turning on a dime, covering stories with cover stories and resourceful \\"sources,\\" but this novel shows that genius-level skat-con journalism is one thing and Monday morning retelling is another. A talented con, whether Frank W. Abignale, Charles Ponzi or Stephen Glass, is a situation surfer who reads waves, knows currents and board angles of attack, is able to duck and carve, invent, reinvent, do ad hoc and mad hoc with a straight face and sincere smile, in the flow and in the zone. In this novel, criticized as shallow and insincere, Glass is of course insincere and inept, but is mainly simply out of his element -- not in the action, just pontificating on memories of action -- and then padding the gaps with wishful thinking. This novel's characters, at once vaunted and vapid, are as hollow as they are because Glass, self-preoccupied as any solo strutter must be, intently focused on multifaceted, deceptive invention, had little energy or awareness left over for seeing his associates clearly. The people he wanted, he invented as narrowly glimpsed fantasmas. The narcissist is not the best observer of the wholeness of real people, thus his novel's characters reflect that. But the novel is highly valuable as an intro to journalistic con-artistry.	2003-12-07
US	49618969	RMZ3O6V8R9U83	1560851570	810243548	An Insider's View of Mormon Origins	Books	5	626	715	N	N	Clear, Direct and Honest	The author of this exceptionally clear & thoroughly documented book is an active, fourth-generation Mormon, a 34-year professional historian and Mormon-studies director at college-level religious institutes.<br />From the Preface: \\"I, along with colleagues, and drawing from years of research, find the evidence employed to support many traditional [official Mormon] claims about the [Mormon] church to be either nonexistent or problematic.\\"<br />Chap. 1 (\\"Joseph Smith as Translator/Revelator\\") concludes that Jos. Smith \\"mistranslated a number of documents\\" including the Book of Abraham, used the King James Bible extensively in constructing the Book of Mormon, also weaving in many 19th century concerns, and that the Book of Mormon is of \\"no value in trying to learn more about ancient America or the Middle East.\\"<br />Chap. 2 (\\"Authorship of the Book of Mormon\\") concludes that the Book of Mormon is most likely a 19th-century production pieced together from sources demonstrated to be available to Smith, and therefore not a translation from ancient metal plates which, in any case, were not used and often not even present during dictation to scribes, done by looking not at plates but into a hat with a stone placed in it, often separated from his scribe by a blanket hung between them. This chapter also mentions DNA evidence demonstrating that the origin of Native Americans is not as claimed in the Book of Mormon.<br />Chap. 3 (\\"The Bible in the Book of Mormon\\") demonstrates the King James Bible as source for numerous reworked Book of Mormon stories, many anachronisms and King James translators' errors copied in this erroneous form into the Book of Mormon. Quote: \\"Why would God reveal to Joseph Smith a faulty [mistranslated] KJV text?\\"<br />Chap 4 (\\"Evangelical Protestantism in the Book of Mormon\\") concludes that numerous theological issues addressed in the Book of Mormon probably derived from Smith's Upstate New York religious environment than from the claimed ancient gold plates.<br />Chap 5 (\\"Moroni and the Golden Pot\\") examines a long list of parallels between a published story by E.T.A. Hoffmann, and Smith's account of the angel Moroni's visits. The chapter concludes, \\"It would stretch credulity to believe that this [long list of parallels between Hoffmann's Golden Pot story and Smith's Moroni story] could be a coincidence, and I therefore think that a debt is owed to E.T.A. Hoffmann and the European traditions ...\\"<br />Chap. 6 (\\"Witnesses to the Golden Plates\\") concludes that, despite the LDS Church's current claims, the evidence shows that none of the eleven witnesses claimed to have actually seen the physical gold plates, instead visualizing them \\"with spiritual eyes\\" in a prayer-induced trance state.<br />Chap. 7 (\\"Priesthood Restoration\\") concludes that Smith's claim to have been personally ordained by John the Baptist, Peter, James and John as resurrected beings, was not at all what Smith originally claimed, but instead evolved over a number of years from the original claim that didn't involve any beings such as the above four New Testament figures.<br />Chap. 8 (\\"The First Vision\\") concludes that the LDS Church's official claim that Joseph Smith claimed to have been visited by God the Father and Jesus Christ as two separate beings \\"is not supported by the historical evidence\\" either in the number of beings alleged seen or in the year and circumstances as now officially claimed.<br />Conclusion chapter: Ît states, \\"The foundation events were rewritten by Joseph [Smith] and Oliver [Cowdery] and other early church officials .... This reworking made the stories more useful for missionary work and fellowshipping purposes. ... Is it right to tell religious allegories to adults as if they were literal history?\\"<br />In short, this book recommends that practicing Mormons regard their foundation stories as inspirational fictions rather than as truthful history.	2003-11-27
US	49618969	R17L6M7MTRB445	1568582196	625674578	One Nation Under Gods: A History of the Mormon Church	Books	4	4	22	N	N	Excellent But Flawed	Abanes has written an exceptionally interesting and well researched presentation of the history and structure of Mormonism. But it is flawed in that Abanes apparently doesn't realize that all &quot;revealed&quot; religions have been built on invention and manipulation. Since New Testament supernatural claims and miraculous stories are just as invented as those of Joseph Smith's Book of Mormon, Abanes's book misses the point that angelic and miraculous &quot;histories&quot; are fantasies. Mormons, as do Catholic and Protestant Christians, operate socially beneficial myths that, as Joseph Campbell has pointed out, are valuable in that they fool people into rising above themselves. Though the divine aspects of Mormonism and other forms of Christianity are evolved fantasies of one person or many, these socially needed myths provide motivation, inspiration, comfort, direction, family focus, improved personal and social behavior, and lowered stress through better communication arising from an agreed-upon value system and shared goals. Abanes points out how Mormonism was contrived, but ignores how Christianity was contrived in somewhat analogous ways, as clearly described in readable books such as Who Wrote the New Testament?	2003-11-13
US	49618969	R23N925325EFSN	0670032174	180764547	The Ancestral Mind: Reclaim the Power	Books	4	18	23	N	N	Wonderful advice for Americans	Since my wife and her family are Samoans, I've benefitted from their more natural, less technological cadence, a rhythm highly recommended by the author, who suggests that contemporary industrial man lives too much in the wordy, cerebral mind and too little in the emotional mid-brain that we share with other mammals. The book provides a wealth of practical exercises that help us tune out our constant analytical self-chatter and attune ourselves to simpler and emotionally wiser ways.<BR>     He also describes the many health benefits of religious faith, available to believers. But there's the rub for many, because the Judeo-Christian scriptures that so many find comfort in have been so deconstructed by textual analysis as to render them too little believable in too many ways for too many people of intelligence, education and rational ability. But the author doesn't denigrate religion, and is honest in admitting that while it works well for many it doesn't for many others. I gave the book four stars rather than five because the author doesn't adequately resolve the issue of credibility of traditional religions in a scientific age.	2003-07-15
US	49618969	R1EKJWVYTBDMWD	0060514043	499804478	The Miracles of Exodus: A Scientist's Discovery of the Extraordinary Natural Causes of the Biblical Stories	Books	3	19	24	N	N	Fascinating facts; too little common sense	Humphreys, with near-childish glee, marshals an interesting array of geographical and historical facts bearing on his subject, making this a fascinating book to read. But the central fact to keep in mind is that this author, for all his education and attention to detail, possesses a naive mentality such that he expects us to find it credible that Moses' miracle of the parting of the Red Sea occurred by means of a continuous eighty-mile-per-hour crosswind that literally blew the sea back over a period of hours and held it there for the crossing. Humphreys expects his readers to believe that 20,000 Israelites, with small children and elderly people, flocks, herds and supplies, could have walked across in a constant 80-mile crosswind! In real life, winds of that hurricane velocity prevent even strong men from standing without hanging onto trees and poles. The idea of walking in an 80-MPH crosswind is just nutty. And there's lots more of that kind of wackiness here, alongside many valid and fascinating facts.	2003-06-15
US	49618969	R3QUWC4PQEUKUS	1887472711	809367272	Cosmic Cradle: Souls Waiting in the Wings for Birth	Books	5	9	35	N	N	Magnificently Impressive!	I gave this book five fully earned stars because it is such a magnificently crafted exploration of claims that premortal spirits contract with birth parents, laying out life plans and even the infant's name. This impressively assembled book, reporting wide-eyed wonders world-wide, is thus a towering tribute to the robust wellness of human gullibility across our planet, there still being an obviously huge demand for the a-scientific thinking which this book so beautifully displays. It will have profound appeal to the irrational masses of wishful wonderers absent of knowledge of genuine psychology, devoid of knowledge of genuine genetics. One must sincerely admire the physical and mental stamina of authors capable of devoting so much time and meticulous attention to dorky detail of trivial tripe, reveling in the thick of thin things, celebrating the sin of sensibleness and exulting in our eternal appetite for abject absurdity.	2003-03-15
US	49618969	RT3Y4EAYTCQ2N	0970906307	471638895	The Mormon Defenders	Books	4	9	39	N	N	Microcosmic Contrasts	Holding's book does an excellent job of delineating differences between Mormon teachings and standard biblical interpretations. That's why I rated it 4 stars rather than 2 or 3. But what it misses is the larger scope of biblical scholarship that renders much of both Mormon teachings and standard biblical interpretations irrelevant to historical, existential reality. In other words, much of what most Mormons and Christians believe about the Bible is in neither case historically viable. Even Albert Schweitzer concluded, at the end of his book, Quest of the Historical Jesus, that the Jesus Christ described in the New Testament \\"never had any historical existence.\\" Other works such as Why Christianity Must Change or Die (Spong), and The Origin of Satan (Pagels), and Who Wrote the New Testament? (Mack) all lay out historical findings that leave Mormon-Evangelical differences anachronistic and moot, each camp denigrating the other, and neither camp being historically valid in the light of current scholarship. So while Holding's book is well done for what it does, what it does, in the larger scheme of things, may now be viewed as tempestuous teapot theology and microcosmic musings in a macrocosmic world of worldwide scriptural relativity.	2003-01-03
US	49618969	RR5OK6SNZMSTS	1885167385	950536398	The Owner's Manual for the Brain: Everyday Applications from Mind-Brain Research	Books	5	38	41	N	N	Masterful Balance of Profundity and Simplicity	Even my first riff through this hefty tome, viewing the graphic variety of summaries flash by, was a pleasure reminiscent of my first youthful encounter with a Worldbook Encyclopedia. Astonishing in its breadth and clarity of coverage, direct and practical in topic selection and presentation, this book educates and entertains while it links related concepts and leads the reader into a surprising variety of organized branches of further exploration. <br />Though my Ph.D. is in a related field, I found new, intriguing and useful information at almost every turn of page. The descriptions are simple but not simplistic. Suggestions and advice are practicable but not prosaic or mundane. Whether your interest is right-left brain observations or the right anterior cingulate cortex, you'll find enlightening remarks and crystal-clear syntheses in these attractively laid-out pages.<br />How small children perceive their world? It's here. How brain activity varies from sex to sex and age to age? You'll find it. Why you feel as you do on some occasions and not others? That too. What you can do to improve this, that and you-name-it? Yes. To me this book is analogous to a trip through a huge new shopping center plus a museum complex and an international buffet. I would honestly worry about the state of mind or level of sincerity of a person who would claim not to find this book fascinating and rewarding.	2003-01-02
US	49618969	R2FXGTY4RLTRF5	0743206371	823571773	Soul Stories	Books	3	2	8	N	N	Mental confusion	These are, in the main, interesting stories, well told. That said, it is important to remind the reader that they are stories in the sense that Carlos Castaneda's stories are stories, and J. K. Rowling's stories are stories. But while readers read with the knowledge that Rowling's Harry Potter is fictitious, and that Castaneda's Yaqui mystic is at the very least wildly mythologized, many readers are not that clear about some of Zukav's material. Why is that? It's because Zukav's material is presented as though inherently plausible.<br />But the central fallacy around which the tales are built is that definitions and inherited concepts are presented by the author as if they were factual reality. &quot;Soul,&quot; &quot;God,&quot; &quot;reincarnation,&quot; life as path, life as school, etc., are in reality simply definitional constructs that have originated and changed over the millenia as the concepts to which these definitional labels are applied have evolved. When a life is viewed as a journey from point A through B &amp; C to D, it can be mentally back-constructed and viewed cognitively as a &quot;path.&quot; If D can be seen as worthwhile in relation to earlier A, B and C, then the life to which this is applied can be retroconstructed to see A, B and C as a &quot;school&quot; for said life regarding what happened in this life at D. The book does not help the reader realize that patterns are not just found, they are often simply unconsciously postulated and constructed from elements of wishful thinking.<br />Thus, these are interesting stories for fictionalized story readers, especially for those of relatively low awareness of the nature of definitional constructs as cognitive virtual reality and cognitive retromapping, but Zukav's stories are certainly not what would strike careful and knowledgeable readers as being credible accounts. This difference in types of reader-awareness and degrees of clarity may be seen as you compare other reviews here.	2002-12-07
US	49618969	R1U07ZZB4H7U50	0875521800	825496699	The Gospel According to Joseph Smith: A Christian Response to Mormon Teaching	Books	3	5	12	N	N	Principled and Unprincipled	Ethan Harris does a credibly principled job of pointing out many clearly glaring inconsistencies and contradictions between (a) Mormon doctrines and the Bible, and (b) current official Mormon doctrines and past official Mormon doctrines. He does this fairly, honestly and logically.<br />But note: 1. A clearer and crisper job at the same task is done by Sharon Armstrong in her book, For Any Latter-day Saint: One Investigator's Unanswered Questions. 2. Though Harris is a valiant LDS contradiction illuminator, he does not in fairness point his light at any of dozens of equally glaring inconsistencies and contradictions in (a) the Bible itself, and (b) between the Bible and many accepted current non-Mormon Christian teachings. So his principled argument against contradictions is inconsistently applied and, therefore to that extent, ironically unprincipled. A much better job than Harris's at applying facts and principle consistently is done by Burton L. Macke (a professor of ancient Christian history) in Who Wrote the New Testament?<br />All that said, Harris's book is still a valuable introduction to the depth of contradiction in Mormonism.	2002-11-30
US	49618969	R349UHALH6BZUH	0940999307	64172263	For Any Latter-Day Saint: One Investigator's Unanswered Questions	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Crisply Precise Logic, No Pushiness	Banister's method of examining Mormonism is original, disarmingly simple, and starkly clear: She quotes and documents (with adequate context), without interpretations of her own, earlier authoritative LDS statements side by side with later ones on exactly the same topic, then asks a question and provides choice-boxes for the reader to check, or space to write in an answer. This method is followed for over 650 questions.<br />In essence, she asks if two clearly inconsistent or contradictory statements can both be true, and if not, which, if either, is true, and how the reader could decide this. She never tells the reader that anything is untrue; she just presents and asks. Thus, the book serves as a test of honesty as well as of clear thinking.<br />The cumulative effect of 650+ such quote comparisons and questions is powerful. An example: After documenting opposing authoritative quotes, she asks, \\"Can you explain how [Mormon Apostle's name] could have said that prophecy was being fulfilled [which he did say] if such prophecy never existed and was only a 'typographical error' [which another LDS authority's letter states]? Yes_[Give Explanation]______________________ No______.\\"<br />Another: \\"Since only about 40% of 2,200 pages [of Joseph Smith's personal history] was completed at the time of Joseph Smith's death [which previous, authoritative quotes demonstrated], could he have 'thoroughly supervised the writing of his history' as the Preface to the History states? Yes ___ No _ \\"<br />Another: \\"If Joseph Smith was 'troubled\\" about the use of liquor, why did he issue himself a liquor license? Reason: __________ \\".<br />The author is always respectful, never rhetorical, never gloats. There is only the analog of, \\"Since you have testified under oath to this court that you, your wife and two children were in Los Angeles at noon on Mother's Day 2001, why does a Macy's security camera in New York City clearly show all four of you together there at noon on the same day?\\"	2002-11-22
US	49618969	RPQWONX8X0WJC	067003083X	798168058	Joseph Smith  (Penguin Lives)	Books	3	5	13	N	N	Public-Relations Biography	The New York Review of Books surely got it right in reviewing this book, as the book's publisher brazenly acknowledges on the book's jacket, admitting that the Penguin series presents biography more as art than history. This candid admission of artists' license to artfully mold reality is seen from the start in Remini's cautious and brief bio of one of the few most brashly creative of religious founders in that the only version of Joseph Smith's renowned First Vision that Remini presents, with no mention of others, is the latest (1838) of several dramatically inconsistent varieties that Smith on various prior occasions had testified to. By 1838 Mormonism's founding prophet had revised the First Vision to now state that two Gods, as physically separate and literally physical beings (God the Father, and Jesus Christ), not just one of these deities or one or more angels as per prior varieties of the story, had appeared to him in the now-memorialized Sacred Grove of trees near Palmyra in upstate New York. The 1838 revision has been the Latter Day Saints' official version since after the church's first several decades because it best agrees with Joseph Smith's much-evolved, post-Book of Mormon, Nauvoo Illinois-period, many-gods theology. There is no mention of any of these facts in Remini's bio of Smith.<br />Remini, though a non-Mormon, clearly and intentionally has designed the biography not to offend believing Mormons, as he astonishingly and openly admits in the intro pages, which frank admission delivers fair warning to readers regarding the book's level of concern for objective reporting on a life that, in truth and fairness, includes a lot of the crass and negative along with the positive that you'll read about in this book. But other than these kinds of diplomatic sweep-under-rug devices, so long as you remember that a lot of colorful and negative info has been omitted in a way that protects sales among the large and fast-growing market of active and proselytizing LDS book buyers, this biography will give any reader, believer or not, a helpful, abbreviated summary of one of the cleverest, most innovative and productive of American religious thinkers and builders, a life of spectacular intelligence, creative imagination, exhuberant exploitation and courageous chutzpah that has undeniably left a net-balance legacy of numerous positive values.	2002-10-30
US	49618969	R27XRCG5X1T4TC	0071381422	539506427	Original Intelligence: The Architecture of the Human Mind	Books	3	7	14	N	N	Sedate; only marginally satisfying	Though the subject matter excites me because I'm an ex-language prof whose Ph.D. oombines linguistics and psychology, I found this book's presentation to be stoically plodding and bland. The authors present certain characteristics of human infants'/children's minds that link evolutionarily to proto-human/primate beginnings, drawing inferences that would help us use such insights to improve child education -- the concept being that we can better learn how children learn if we better understand our brain evolution, and associated needs, genetic abilities and predilections. <br />It all sounds promising, and is certainly academically respectable given the authors' documented track records, but the conclusions and recommendations seem surprisingly thin, the application portions surprisingly pedestrian, such as their comments on how to instruct young children in better assessing attitudes and intentions of other children.<br />At least one recommendtion is practical and very helpful: teach a young child to read by asking him/her to relate a personal experience, or to tell a simple story, making an audio recording of the child's words. Write out his/her story as the exact transcript of the audio, then have the child learn to read his/her words in the transcript while listening to his/her own voice. This makes the reading lesson very personal and meaningful to the child, and helps greatly to establish in his/her mind the connection between spoken sentences and their written counterpart. This method is certainly one up on the commercially prepared books that computer-insert the child's name into an unrelated story written by an adult. <br />As someone who has directly or indirectly taught many languages to several age groups (including my own sons and daughters), I see great merit in the psychology of this highly personalized reading-instruction method. But others of the authors' recommendations seemed to me to be much less innovative and compelling.	2002-08-27
US	49618969	R3EYGTMQ0VLB8G	0060937319	350275263	A People's History of the United States: 1492 to Present	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Credible & Balanced History	Histories of any kind are usually written by the winners, designed for the winners' children and allies -- resulting in descriptions no more truthfully balanced than accounts of public elections written by those elected. In all social processes, some people gain far more than others; these others gain relatively little or lose, sometimes massively. Histories should be balanced process descriptions, not public-relations press releases.<br />A People's History of the United States masterfully describes processes and impact on those whose experiences usually remain untold in the winners' PR reports that normally pass as histories. From Columbus and Cortez through Custer to Clinton, this book is a credible history of the huge mass of reality that has until now usually been hidden, denied, lied about or ignored.<br />This is certainly my favorite US history presentation, a much-needed counterbalance to the typical distorted fare served up to us Americans from grade schools to universities (and I taught for years in American universities).	2002-08-20
US	49618969	R7SB3W7HEENU3	0684863480	970234559	God in the Equation : How Einstein Became the Prophet of the New Religious Era	Books	3	23	34	N	N	Misdirection	The editorial review above notwithstanding, this book essentially mischaracterizes Einstein's own declared statements on the God issue: &quot; . . . I am, and have always been, an atheist.&quot;<br />How, therefore, can Einstein be seen as a prophet of a new form of religion? If we confront his own statements honestly, we must realize that he can't in any traditional sense of &quot;prophet,&quot; because Einstein was a self-announced non-theist. But there is historical precedent for the non-theist being later defined otherwise: Gauthama, the original Buddha, reached what he called enlightenment as a form of realization that priests had no actual divine authority because there was no &quot;divine authorizor.&quot; But his own statements were increasingly ignored as he became deified by his followers, who progressively redefined him.<br />Einstein is simply being redefined, in this book, as something other than he declared himself to be. But since he is no longer around to defend his view, he may indeed be installed by others as some form of prophet of a religious philosophy.<br />I rated this book as a three instead of a one because, though it fundamentally misrepresents a key issue, it is nonetheless well organized, engagingly presented and thought-stimulating.	2002-08-12
US	49618969	RB3GAO0RZVSA9	1579550088	20378952	A New Kind of Science	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Microcosmic Mathematimusings	Here's a brief review as counterpoint to a looong book.<br />Q: Why was this huge, lushly illustrated book, by a known scientist, published without reviewers' comments on the jacket?<BR>A: Because the author himself published it.<br />This narcissistically brilliant tome is sweeping in scope yet searingly simplistic. Vibrantly visionary yet meagerly miopic. Fixedly fascinated with form over function. Form, form, form. The author claims that EVERY thing and activity in the universe, worm wiggles to Wall Street wobbles, exists solely as automated replication of bits from simple initial programs, just as snowflakes' infinite variety originates from simple water-crystal aggregations. Snowflakes or symphonies, simians or Sikorski -- same stuff.<br />The book DOES give solid \\"food for thought\\" -- analogous to \\"food for body\\" limited solely to brown rice -- a similarly miopic condensation of macrobiotic logic. Still, brown rice is a good food. And this book is a good thought provoker and idea generator.	2002-08-11
US	49618969	R2Q6G75MTV35VE	0938978217	747589876	Da Jesus Book: Hawaii Pidgin New Testament	Books	5	174	179	N	N	Much More Than &quot;Pidgin Feed.&quot;	I read this book on three levels because of (a) my marriage of 45 years to a Polynesian woman from Hawaii, (b) my years as a Christian missionary, and (c) my years teaching linguistics. The New Testament in Hawaii Pidgin might at first be misperceived as ethnic humor, but this is a serious project of the Wycliffe Bible Translators, hardly tongue-in-cheek dudes. I found my copy at the nonfacetious Univ. of Hawaii bookstore, where I presented it to two Polynesian cashiers for their opinions. Both reacted with enthusiasm, saying that it was a Bible they could better relate to emotionally, though they also spoke excellent English. It's fun to read, and though I've read the Bible in other languages, I gained A LOT of insight from this disarmingly direct dialect. The spelling reflects pronunciation; &quot;special&quot; is &quot;spesho,&quot; &quot;everything&quot; is &quot;erryting,&quot; etc. &quot;Jesus chose his 12 apostles&quot; becomes &quot;Jesus ben pick his 12 spesho guys.&quot;<br />Da Wycliffe Translayta guys didn't just cobble it together by &quot;talking funny.&quot; Da tranlata guys wen make Da Jesus Book wit local kine peopo. Wuz 26 local peopo dat stay talk Pidgin from small keed time, dat do um. Dey make shua erryting mean da same ting jalike da way da peopo wen write down da Bible firs time. Da main translayta guys, dey da ones dat talk Pidgin all da time, cuz dey know wass da bestes way fo say stuffs so all da local peopo goin undastan. Da team check erryting five o six time, an use all kine commentary books fo make shua da meaning stay okay. Dey use da heavy kine Pidgin from country side, cuz dis book fo da people dat talk Pidgin all da time an English onny litto bit. Also too, fo plenny peopo who onny talk Pidgin, dis way mo bettah fo undastan. Bumbye, going get all Da Jesus Book on CD so can lissen da whole ting. You can almos hea da kine language dat da regula peopo talk erryday as you read this book even silently. I think you'll enjoy it and pick upsurprising insights even if you have no interest in Hawaii per se, or even if you're not normally a Bible reader.	2002-07-23
US	49618969	R3GSPR9KHQM7H5	1885628498	676220162	Sunday of the Living Dead	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Right On Target	For anyone who grew up LDS/Mormon (as I did), and/or for anyone familiar with Mormonism as an adult, this book (assuming the reader possesses a sense of humor and is not overly defensive) is a pure, cover-to-cover hoot. The cartoon drawings are as funny as the captions.<br /> One example: Two Mormon congregations, one in Utah, the other in Bolivia, are shown during a religious service. The congregations differ only in clothing, the Utahans in typical USA Sunday best, the Bolivians in indigenous native attire. The men, women and children in both congregations are otherwise identical in ages, sizes, pew locations, body positions and facial expressions, all sound asleep with heads drooped to the side and mouths hanging open. The caption reads, \\"The gospel is the same everywhere,\\" a statement very often proudly stated in Mormon meetings.<br />I think it was Oscar Wilde who said, \\"If you're going to tell people the truth, you'd better make them laugh or they will kill you.\\" This book is a cleverly illustrated look at comically stated truths. I laughed out loud at most of these cartoons.	2002-07-23
US	49618969	R3DYYA3QC4GQE6	0684848597	621724421	People of the Lie: The Hope for Healing Human Evil	Books	3	18	28	N	N	Well intended, but surprisingly childish	Though I greatly respect Dr. Peck's medical credentials and obvious good intentions, the level of thinking and writing in this book is astonishingly childish. Peck associates evil with narcissism and laziness. No problem in that, per se, but evil very often doesn't result from them. Moreover, \\"evil\\" is a definitional concept, not an independent reality. Thus, one person's evil often is another's heroic religious act -- which brings us to the issue of religion. Peck's conceptual framework for \\"understanding\\" evil is complicated and confused by his Christian viewpoint. Of course, Christians regard this viewpoint as reality, which is part of the confusion. Joan of Arc was burned as \\"evil\\" by Christian clergy. Women in Salem, Mass. were also burned by Christians who confused definitional concepts with reality. Jehovah's slaughter of many women and children in the Old Testament, and additional carnage during the Crusades, are defined as holy or evil depending on whose side you're on. Peck fails childishly at sorting out such matters because of his specific religious viewpoint which is seen as reality, leaving him not fully aware of other more sensible explanations of the behaviors he describes. And it is simply disgusting that a contemporary educated man can take seriously an ancient superstition such as exorcism.<br />All that said, there is value in the book in that it stimulates thought and dialogue about an important subject.	2002-03-25
US	49618969	RRQ5M4H9I4GZ2	0970391307	568101808	Acalan	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Soap-opera Mayans	Other readers here have adequately described the narrative and educational historical aspects of Conforti's novel. Those excellent qualities aren't the irritating aspects of this 780-page tome. The constant grating owes to something else: absurdly anachronistic description and especially conversation style, coming across in too many instances as if these ancient Mayans were protagonists of LA Law, or perhaps ancient counterparts of George and Kramer on episodes of Seinfeld. An example: Mac Chaanal, a Mayan speaker of 800 AD, says, \\"The hunting trip is just the cover story.\\" Another ancient Mayan speaks: \\"The bean counters outdid themselves on that one.\\" [Cover story?! Bean counters?!] <br />Conforti's writing is often just clumsy: \\"The heady scent went right to [his] head.\\" Also, picture this: Conforti has two adult male Mayan priest-trainees saying to a young girl, \\"Don't tell us you can read that, girl. We're almost priests and we can hardly read it ourselves.\\" Is the reader to believe that a young Mayan girl reads at all, let alone better than two men sufficiently literate to be temple priests?! Other Conforti Mayans use modern cliché phrases such as, \\"the end of life as we know it,\\" and \\"the power behind the throne.\\" And all of the above language and concept gaffes occur in just the first few pages of this 780-page novel!<br />You will pick up lots of fascinating Mayan history here, but the US soap-opera dialogue placed in the mouths of ancient Mayans is unsettlingly anachronistic and unintentionally comical, if not flat-out ludicrous.	2002-01-30
US	49618969	R1FV1D801X6LSU	0890511586	643985305	The Lie: Evolution	Books	2	26	49	N	N	Erroneous Method	A serious and core error of Ham's book, typical of the creationist genre, is the mistaken belief that large, intricately complex structures necessarily imply a creator. Rather than speculate about distant subjects such as ancient species origin, let's look at something clearly knowable and only 2,000 years old. My Ph.D. is in linguistics and I have taught or directly supervised instruction in over two dozen languages. Each language is an extremely, elaborately complex, multi-systemic structure. Two thousand years ago, Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, etc., didn't exist. They exist today, each as a highly complex structure, but none was created. Each simply evolved from spoken Latin; the evolution of each is known and documented. It is simply unnecessary to postulate the existence of a creator to account for multi-layered, highly organized structures.	2001-12-12
US	49618969	R31K8WKM4WT8BW	0890512582	521961568	Refuting Evolution: A Handbook for Students, Parents, and Teachers Countering the Latest Arguments for Evolution	Books	2	30	56	N	N	Fallaceous Method	A central methodological thinking error of Sarfati's book, typical of the creationist genre, is the mistaken belief that large, intricately complex structures necessarily imply a creator. Rather than speculate about distant subjects such as ancient species origin, let's look at something clearly knowable and only 2,000 years old. My Ph.D. is in linguistics and I have taught or directly supervised instruction in over two dozen languages. Each language is an extremely, elaborately complex, multi-systemic structure. Two thousand years ago, Spanish, French, Italian, Portuguese, etc., didn't exist. They exist today, each as a highly complex structure, but none was created, nor was its direction of development directed by anyone. Each simply evolved from spoken Latin; the evolution of each is known and documented. It is manifestly unnecessary to postulate the existence of a creator to account for multi-layered, highly organized structures.	2001-12-12
US	49618969	R30X4YO8G74PK9	1891434012	778225039	How to Fight Cancer & Win	Books	4	242	247	N	N	Very Simple To Do	Fischer's book, describing the anti-cancer method of Johanna Budwig, is excellent. But the essence of it in application can be stated very simply: Eat low-fat cottage cheese combined with flaxseed oil (sometimes known as linseed oil). It's best to obtain the oil in the REFRIGERATED section of a natural-foods store. The refrigerated form resists rancidity, which naturally happens quickly with flaxseed oil at room temperature, even in a sealed bottle..<br />My comments are of course not a substitute for reading the book, but I have given you the essence of what to do. The rest are explanatory details that provide enough of a background that you can understand the reasons for the recommendation.	2001-11-15
US	49618969	RV788I1G8MPKP	0275958221	259411989	Eugenics: A Reassessment (Human Evolution, Behavior, and Intelligence)	Books	5	69	75	N	N	Most Credible Endorsement of Eugenics	Richard Lynn, Professor Emeritus of Psychology at the University of Ulster in Northern Ireland, brings eminent scientific credibility to an obviously controversial subject. In recent years, perhaps only J. Philippe Rushton has with equal candor applied such crisply sensible logic to the social implications of genetic factors. In highly civilized and democratized countries, genetic quality declines as people of less intelligence have more children and cause more problems than brighter and abler people. That is essentialy indisputable statistically; the problem is what to do about it. Lynn discusses the relative feasibilities of alternative solutions: education, incentives for abler people to have more children and the less able fewer, trying to discourage reproduction among the more indigent and indolent. Past efforts at forced sterilization are addressed. Lynn discusses the modern Singapore program that tax-incentivizes better educated women to bear more children. Regarding efforts to lessen genetic diseases through eugenics, Lynn shows that people with these diseases fill one-fourth of hospital beds. He also points out that psychopaths constitute about 60 percent of prison inmates, so working to eliminate the genes causing this behavior seems prudent and even necessary. Also, low intelligence correlates with illegitimacy, crime and unemployment. It's clear that eugenics can raise average IQ by embryo selection.<br />While currently distasteful in an egalitarian society such as the US, using eugenics to produce the competitive advantage of a populace of higher IQ is a social benefit that will not be lost on a country such as China, opines Prof. Lynn, a boost to average IQ of 115 being reachable. This can be done by selecting the superior embryo from a large number of each woman's eggs fertilized in vitro. Lynn feels that China, for example, will use this kind of method to produce a superior populace in which genetic disease and psychopathy are eliminated. Timeframe?Lynn estimates ten years in China to implement these methods. Then, in 20 years, China will have a generation of embryo-selected, superior people. Another 20 will result in half the employed population as high-intelligence, genetically superior people. And what about the US? Lynn foresees continued genetic decline as, in the US's non-authoritarian milieu, the less able continue to out-reproduce the more able. In the meantime China, with racial homogeneity and physical and mental superiority, dominates the planet. (J. Philippe Rushton, in his Race, Evolution and Behavior, had already reported East Asian IQs at 106, with Whites at 100.) With my Ph.D. in linguistics/psychology (Georgetown Univ.) and teaching in several universities, I've enough background to think that Lynn's findings and opinions make very credible scientific sense. Whether you agree or not, you will find his book to be exceptionally well researched, thought-out and organized -- though not inexpensive.	2001-11-01
US	49618969	RDJ1PVJG5XN2P	1559585013	270743019	Wave 3: The New Era in Network Marketing	Books	5	14	15	N	N	#1 Most Popular Network Marketing Book	Though various books are available on network marketing (I've seif-published four of them myself), Poe's is the most popular and best introduction. He explains WHY it works, WHY to do it, WHO is doing it, and HOW to do it. As past senior editor of Success magazine, Poe is not a network marketer per se, but as a professional journalist of high reputation he interviewed enough experts and top performers in the industry to understand and present, with great credibility and clarity, the industry that produces individual distributor incomes of up to hundreds of thousands of dollars per month, even from home.<br />Poe's respectability and conservative image has boosted network marketing's overall image and reputation since Wave Three was published a few years ago. Poe named me in Wave Three as analyst and watchdog of the industry, but this book has made my watchdog role easier in that the book has raised awareness of proper principles and also has reduced some companies' abuses by educating the public regarding what to expect from responsible MLM companies and how to choose one of the better ones.<br />Wave Three may be the most popular book ever written on the subject, and is &quot;MUST reading&quot; even though Poe followed this with a Wave Four title. If you want to read an insightful, solidly researched, responsible, credible, informative and engaging book on network marketing, you can do no better than with these pages.	2000-12-02
US	49618969	R36WHHV4KVYV5	0312204094	184001758	Gain	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Corporate and Corporeal Concerto	Powers powers pages. They turn near-unassisted. Writers' writer, Mozart of  mosaic musings, Paco de Lucia of lightning lucidity, Powers again awes with  artistry and aching-Achillean awareness of American ambience.<br />As an MA in  literature and Ph.D. in linguistics, having taught or supervised  instruction in almost thirty languages, I've read a few pages over the  years. But not pages like Powers' pages.<br />He's the wizard of wondrously  woven words, combining corporate conglomerate and corporeal crisis in a  concerto of contemporary concepts. Deftly dynamic, conceptually crisp yet  multifacetedly masterful, Powers links and internests lyrical lingerings,  commercial contortions and human hearts with sage savvy and surgical skill  that belie his years.<br />In Gain, commerce and cancer consort, contrive and  comingle as Powers' time-tapestry displays the warp and weave of corporate  cause, corporeal consequence, conscience, conscientiousness and courage. I  know of no one whose narratives equal the blazing and blistering brilliance  of the concertos of concept and concern of Richard Powers. (And, no, he  doesn't alliterate you to death, as I seem not to have resisted doing.)	2000-09-03
