US	49618395	R3LSOBQ0LBNUF8	0872260968	778557841	Charles Keeping's Book of Classic Ghost Stories	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Eight Classics - Good Collection of Ghostly Tales for Readers New to Genre	Like many other standard collections, this short book - Charles Keeping's Book of Classic Ghost Stories - includes The Body Snatcher (Robert Louis Stevenson), The Adventures of the German Student (Washington Irving), The Signalman (Charles Dickens), and something familiar from Edgar Allan Poe, in this case, The Black Cat. <br /> <br />The other four stories include the Oscar Wilde's delightful and humorous The Canterville Ghost, a patriotic ghost story by Daphne du Maurier titled Escort, The Wailing Well by M. R. James, and The Sweeper by A. M. Burrage. The Wailing Well is an effective blend of humor and terror; it is both funny and frightening, quite different from the more serious ghost stories that I associate with the scholarly M. R. James. And finally, The Sweeper is among the most chilling stories in this collection. <br /> <br />While Charles Keeping's selections are good, many readers will likely have encountered most of these stories in other anthologies. However, this little collection is just the right book for readers new to the ghostly genre. Charles Keeping's Book of Classic Ghost Stories would be ideal for high school and advanced middle school readers that heretofore have been reluctant to read classic authors of English literature. Each story is accompanied by a dark, ghostly, ink drawing by Charles Keeping. <br /> <br />A nit: The Body Snatcher has been slightly abridged. The first four pages, largely context setting, have been deleted.	2005-09-21
US	49618395	RD8CN9JZUHTE8	0940322684	742684340	The Haunted Looking Glass (New York Review Books Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Great Collection of Ghost Stories - Enhanced with Gorey's Illustrations	Edward Gorey's Haunted Looking Glass may be my all time favorite collection of ghost stories. All twelve selections are well-crafted, frightening tales. With the exception of two classics, The Body-Snatcher by Robert Louis Stevenson and The Signalman by Charles Dickens, these stories are not unduly familiar. Each story is enhanced by a haunting illustration in the inimitable style of Edward Gorey himself. <br /> <br />The other ten stories include The Empty House (Algernon Blackwood), August Heat (W. F. Harvey), A Visitor from Down Under (L. P. Hartley), The Thirteenth Tree (R. H. Malden), Man-Size in Marble (E. Nesbit), The Judge's House (Bram Stoker), The Shadow of a Shade (Tom Hood), The Monkey's Paw (W. W. Jacobs), The Dream Woman (Wilkie Collins), and Casting the Runes (M. R. James). <br /> <br />These stories all qualify as truly frightening stories, ones that you will remember. Many anthologies of ghost stories suffer from one of three problems: the stories are not very frightening, the selections are uneven in quality, or the stories are good, but they are all familiar classics. Edward Gorey avoided all three pitfalls.  <br /> <br />Edward Gorey's Haunted Looking Glass was first published in 1959, then reprinted in 1984 by Avenel Books (my copy), and is now available as a New York Review of Books Classic (2001). This book would make a great gift for Halloween, or for that matter any time of the year.	2005-09-21
US	49618395	R1IL5D4KTFBRFT	0060807814	270052874	The Beast Must Die	Books	5	13	14	N	N	An Exceptional Nigel Strangeways Mystery	I am going to kill a man. I don't know his name. I don't know where he lives, I have no idea what he looks like. But I am going to find him and kill him.<br /><br />The Beast Must Die (1938) begins with this short paragraph, the first lines in a diary. Through the eyes and mind of a killer, the reader searches for a victim and evolves a carefully designed plan for murder. But like most human activities, murder can go awry. This well-crafted, fascinating plot offers unexpected twists and a satisfying conclusion. The Beast Must Die is among the best Nigel Strangeways mysteries.<br /><br />Early on the story transitions from a diary format to a more conventional narrative form. The execution of the murder plan moves forward at a deliberate pace, with full attention to every detail. The Beast Must Die is one of the few stories in which Nigel's remarkable wife, Georgia, one of the three most famous women explorers of her day, joins him in the investigation. Not unexpectedly, his long term friend Inspector Blount of Scotland Yard is assigned to the case.<br /><br />A poet-detective may not seem entirely credible. However, for readers new to the Nigel Strangeways mysteries, it might help to note that the author, Nicholas Blake, was actually a pseudonym for Cecil Day-Lewis, Poet Laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972. The actor Daniel Day-Lewis is his son.<br /><br />Although the Nicholas Blake stories are apparently no longer in print, used copies are not that uncommon. In the 1970s and 1980s the Strangeways mysteries were reprinted as Perennial Library paperbacks by Harper and Row Publishers.  Another source, The Nicholas Blake Treasury, is an inexpensive, book club edition published in four volumes by the Mystery Guild. Finding even a single volume is a delight as each volume contains three Strangeways mysteries.<br /><br />The Beast Must Die was also published around 1990 by the Franklin Mystery Library in an attractive, gilt edge, hardcover binding. This particular edition is not easy to find, however.<br /><br />Thou Shell of Death (1936) and The Corpse in the Snowman (1941) are two other excellent Nigel Strangeways stories dating from the same period as The Beast Must Die.Thou Shell of Death (1936) and The Corpse in the Snowman (1941) are two other excellent Nigel Strangeways stories dating from the same period as The Beast Must Die.	2005-09-18
US	49618395	R23IM1ST7HZJ0L	0486601641	16843664	An Introduction to Symbolic Logic, 3rd Edition	Books	4	28	28	N	N	High Marks for Clarity, Good for Self-Tutorial - Offers Historical Perspective	An Introduction to Symbolic Logic by Susanne K. Langer is quite useful for self-tutorial purposes. The author's informal, wordy, enthusiastic, narrative style is quite engaging, and should appeal to readers new to this topic. Her explanations are detailed and carefully constructed.<br /><br />However, Langer's classic text is now rather dated; her first edition (1937) is credited with being the first introductory level text on symbolic logic. The second (1953) and third (1967) editions offer new prefaces, updated reading lists, and expanded appendices, but are not dramatically changed. The third edition (1967) is still available in an inexpensive Dover reprint.<br /><br />Symbolic logic was a young discipline when Langer was writing her first edition. The classic work of Boole, De Morgan, Schroeder, Peano, and Frege had all occurred in previous seven decades. Not everyone agreed, but many logicians still viewed Whitehead and Russell's monumental Principia Mathematica (1910-1913) as the detailed reduction of all of mathematics to logic.<br /><br />Susanne Langer's personal choice of some symbols now seems idiosyncratic, but to be fair it should be noted that even today's textbooks have yet to agree fully on a standard set of logic symbols. What really dates Langer's text is her effusive admiration for the \\"logistic masterpiece\\" of Whitehead and Russell. Not surprisingly, her text culminates, after much preparation, in two final chapters devoted to Principia Mathematica and logistics. Reading Langer is like reading history. (And I for one do enjoy reading classic mathematical texts, monographs, and papers.)<br /><br />Langer's early chapters include the essentials of logical structures, generalization, classes, principal relations among classes, and the universe of classes. The latter half is more challenging with chapters titled The Deductive System of Classes, The Algebra of Logic, Abstraction and Interpretation, The Calculus of Propositions, and of course, The Assumptions of Principia Mathematica.  Readers already familiar with the fundamentals of symbolic logic might skip the early chapters.<br /><br />Langer made no mention of Godel's incompleteness theorem despite its direct reference to Russell and Whitehead's work.  Godel's classic 1931 paper was titled \\"On formally undecidable propositions of Principia Mathematica and other related systems\\". Perhaps, Godel's work was judged too technical for an introductory text.<br /><br />My review refers to the second edition of An Introduction to Symbolic Logic. My 1953 soft cover Dover edition, a library discard, is still in surprisingly good condition.ca.  Readers already familiar with the fundamentals of symbolic logic might skip the early chapters.     Langer made no mention of Godel's incompleteness theorem despite its direct reference to Russell and Whitehead's work.  Godel's classic 1931 paper was titled \\"On formally undecidable propositions of Principia Mathematica and other related systems\\". Perhaps, Godel's work was judged too technical for an introductory text.    My review refers to the second edition of An Introduction to Symbolic Logic. My 1953 soft cover Dover edition, a library discard, is still in surprisingly good condition.	2005-09-17
US	49618395	R1NTDBE7AIX2XN	0486432688	618155707	The World of Mathematics: A Four-Volume Set	Books	5	116	117	N	N	Great Authors, Great Articles, Great Fun	I pencil in the date that I finish reading an article in James R. Newman's four volume, The World of Mathematics.  After a good many years, I now find that I am more than halfway through Newman's remarkable collection that spans 2500 pages. The Newman collection was published in 1956 as a hard cover boxed set that occasionally shows up in used bookstores. More recently, the four volumes have become available in soft cover reprints (Dover Publications) that can be purchased individually.<br /><br />Newman described his work as \\"a small library of the literature of mathematics form A'hmose the Scribe to Albert Einstein, presented with commentaries and notes\\". The individual articles are not abridgements, but are reprinted in their entirety. Some are short, others quite long, a few are easy reading, some are difficult, but none are overwhelming. Each article is introduced by a thoughtful, helpful commentary.<br /><br />I do not systematically read section by section. I skip around. Often, after Newman introduces me to some mathematical topic, I find myself sidetracked, exploring other books and authors. But eventually I return, select another article, and begin the cycle again.<br /><br />What makes Newman collection so remarkable? Great original papers, great authors, and wide ranging topics.<br /><br />Imagine reading Descartes on Cartesian coordinates, Whitehead on mathematical logic, Weyl on symmetry, Dedekind on irrational numbers, Russell on number theory, Heisenberg on the uncertainty principle, Turing on computer intelligence, Boole on set theory, and Eddington on group theory. Biographical and historical articles are scattered throughout. I especially liked Bell's article Invariant Twins: Cayley and Sylvester, and The Great Mathematicians by Turnball.<br /><br />In some articles noted mathematicians try to define what is mathematical thought and how a mathematician creates mathematics.  Clifford writes about The Exactness of Mathematical Laws, Von Neumann on The Mathematician, Weyl on Mathematical Way of Thinking, Poincare on Mathematical Creation, Newman on Godel's Proof, and Russell and Whitehead separately offer their thoughts on mathematical creativity. And, of course, there is G. H. Hardy's remarkable essay, A Mathematician's Apology.<br /><br />Newman's compilation also includes a fascinating, eclectic mix of articles like How to Hunt a Submarine, Durer as a Mathematician, A Mathematical Approach to Ethics, Geometry in the South Pacific, and The Vice of Gambling and the Virtue of Insurance.<br /><br />I have had great fun wandering through Newman's four volume set. I may someday finally read the last article. If so, I expect that I will simply begin again. It would be hard to say good-bye.Way of Thinking, Poincare on Mathematical Creation, Newman on Godel's Proof, and Russell and Whitehead separately offer their thoughts on mathematical creativity. And, of course, there is G. H. Hardy's remarkable essay, A Mathematician's Apology.     Newman's compilation also includes a fascinating, eclectic mix of articles like How to Hunt a Submarine, Durer as a Mathematician, A Mathematical Approach to Ethics, Geometry in the South Pacific, and The Vice of Gambling and the Virtue of Insurance.     I have had great fun wandering through Newman's four volume set. I may someday finally read the last article. If so, I expect that I will simply begin again. It would be hard to say good-bye.	2005-09-12
US	49618395	R2H0FO4BLEH62C	0140233881	268657282	Grassland: The History, Biology, Politics and Promise of the American Prairie	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Audacious, Quirky Proposal - Warrants Serious Consideration	I have encountered few books like Richard Manning's Grassland. Manning's manifesto - reserved for the final chapters - is audacious, even quirky. Grassland's subtitle, The History, Biology, Politics, and Promise of the American Prairie, suggests a reasoned, broad-based analysis, and that is what Richard Manning provides. Nonetheless, his conclusions are breath-taking in their originality. My initial skepticism remains, but Manning does have me thinking about his proposal. Maybe, just maybe, he is on the right track.    The mountain wildernesses with their \\"charismatic megafauna\\", deserts, wild rivers, forests, seashores, and wetlands have little difficulty attracting environmental advocates, but how do the grasslands, the largest single biome in North America, fit into this picture?    Manning is slow to unfold his unorthodox proposals, preferring first to educate his readers.  Thankfully, Manning's style is more narrative and anecdotal than pedagogical. His topics are wide ranging: Indian cultures, exotic weeds, Pleistocene extinctions, Jefferson's agrarian theory, disappearing aquifers, buffalo hunting, and industrialized farming.     Manning has definite opinions, but he is surprisingly fair; he clearly outlines and explains contrary ideas. I questioned some of his interpretations and occasionally even his facts, but all in all Manning's thesis appears credible.    I had some qualms about revealing Manning's manifesto in absence of his preparatory discussions. Even in context, his proposals are unexpectedly original. With caution, I proceed:    Richard Manning advocates eliminating large scale, industrialized farming and cattle ranching on America's extensive arid and semi-arid grasslands. Intensive single crop farming, largely wheat and corn production, is replaced by lower impact, multi-crop farming restricted to areas requiring less irrigation. Extensive irrigation stops. Intense fertilization stops. Land management concepts change. Free roaming bison replacecattle in the food chain. Non-native grasses that have largely displaced native species are eliminated.    Grassland is an exceptionally interesting book. As an earlier reviewer noted, Grassland will change the way we think.	2005-09-09
US	49618395	R3Q5R8111WR8XT	0415102316	587400751	Mussolini and Fascist Italy (Lancaster Pamphlets)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Concise, Authoritative, Study Guide - Lancaster University Pamphlet series	Why and how did fascism emerge and win power in Italy?  How and with what consequences was that power exercised?   Martin Blinkhorn, Professor of Modern European History at Lancaster University,  argues that the Mussolini himself, as important as he was, was not essential to the rise of fascism. The political turmoil following World War I certainly contributed to the rise of fascism, but perhaps more significant was the distinctive social, political, and economic environment of Italy. <br /> <br />This 64-page Lancaster University pamphlet, titled Mussolini and Fascist Italy, is a concise, scholarly, analytical review for students preparing for Advanced Level examinations. This short book does not lend itself to a casual reading. It is a concentrated study guide, one that requires more than one reading for full comprehension. <br /> <br />Two early chapters define the setting in which Mussolini emerged: The Setting: 1861-1915 (the rise of liberalism in Italy) and The Seedbed of Fascism (the years 1915-1919).  Mussolini's rise to power is examined in The Conquest of Power 1919-1925.  <br /> <br />Mussolini's Dictatorship studies the uncertain, shifting relationships between the Duce, the Fascist party, and the Italian state. Three more chapters explore more closely Italian Fascism under Mussolini: Italy Under Fascism, Diplomacy and Imperialism 1922-1936, and The Decline and Fall of Fascism 1936-1945. <br /> <br />In a final chapter, Interpreting Italian Fascism, Blinkhorn compares and contrasts six important historical interpretations. A time chart, maps, and suggested further readings are also provided. <br /> <br />For those readers not focused exclusively on preparing for upcoming exams, I suggest reading Primo Levi's exceptional memoirs, The Periodic Table. Also, the controversial historical narrative, Death in Rome, by Robert Katz is a fascinating account of the chaotic political situation in Rome, March, 1944.  Although not historically significant, the recentfilm Tea with Mussolini (1999) offers charming entertainment. Directed by Franco Zeffirelli, it stars Cher, Judi Dench, Maggie Smith, and Lily Tomlin.	2005-09-06
US	49618395	R2VFB4ARAYS3YV	1586636995	78029986	E=MC2: The Great Ideas that Shaped Our World	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Suitable for Browsing or for Classroom Reference Source	Pete Moore's compilation of great ideas, titled E = MC-squared,  is suitable for browsing or for a classroom reference source. However, many readers may find this collection not entirely satisfactory. The choice of entries is at times puzzling; some great ideas are missing while other more sensational, less significant contributions are included. Despite the title, only three pages discuss Einstein.    The text is divided into the following sections: The Nature of Nature, The Structure of Nature, The Earth, The Universe, Mathematics, Invention and Innovation, Evolution and Genetics, The Human Body, and The Brain.  The Universe section, for example, contains four entries: Edwin Hubble (4 pages), George Gamow (3 pages), Fred Hoyle (3 pages), and Ilya Prigogine (2 pages). Each description typically includes a large photo of the scientist, a description of the great idea, and a timeline.    The more familiar I was with a topic, the more I questioned Moore's selections. In the mathematics section Rene Thom and John Nash were included, perhaps in part because Rene Thom's catastrophe theory is popular in the media as is also the story of John Nash's remarkable life. But where are Euclid, Leibniz, Gauss, Cantor, and Godel?      Likewise, I was quite surprised to find that Moore considered James Lovelock's Gaia theory to be one of the three great ideas in the earth sciences. Moore's other two choices (Charles Lyell's uniformitarianism and Alfred Wegener's continental drift)were reasonable ones, although I would have liked to seen some reference to the critical work on the mechanism responsible for continental drift by J. Tuzo Wilson, Marshall Kay, Frederick Vine, and others. Their work gave Wegener's speculative idea a firm theoretical basis.     Despite the occasional quirky inclusions and omissions, E = MC-squared does offer a leisurely way to become familiar with a wide range of scientific ideas that have shaped our world. The text may in some cases be criticized for being overly simplistic, but for the most part the explanations will prove useful to the layman.	2005-09-02
US	49618395	R1W8XWUPV4274T	0312865376	26534071	Beaker's Dozen	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Fascinating Collection of Short Stories by Nancy Kress, a Hugo Award Winner	The novella, Beggars in Spain, the longest story in this collection titled Beaker's Dozen, earned Nancy Kress the Hugo award in 1991.  Subsequently, Kress extended this story to a full length novel and created two sequels, Beggars and Choosers and Beggars Ride.     Beggars in Spain occurs in the near future when genetic modification of children has become possible, although it is generally available only to the wealthy.  Roger Camden, a prominent financier, overrides his wife's reservations and has a genetic change carried out on their unborn daughter that eliminates the need for sleep as well as improving her intelligence.  As might be expected, so-called Sleepless children completely outpace their normal counterparts (Sleepers) as they function at full capacity twenty-four hours every day. The story primarily focuses on the growing antagonism from the normal population as the Sleepless become an increasingly successful and powerful minority.     The others stores in this collection range from as little as three to about fifty pages. Like Beggars in Spain, these stories largely explore a future world changed by beakers, test tubes, and DNA sequencing.     Ars Longa is an unsettling look at how a dedicated teacher contributed to Walt Disney's success. Flowers of Aulit Prison pictures an alien world that is truly alien; it reminds me of imaginative stories by Ursula Le Guin.    Feigenbaum Number is a creative story about attractors and strange attractors, convergence and divergence, all in the context of iterated function theory as applied to linear and non-linear differential equations. Jack, a post-doc mathematician that studies chaos theory, is immersed simultaneously in two worlds, concretely residing in an imperfect, scarred, damaged reality, but continuously aware of a shimmering, overlapping  image that offers worldly perfection. Although Feigenbaum Number does not deal directly with a future world modified by advances in the biological sciences, it is a fineexample of the remarkable imagination of Nancy Kress.    The remaining stories range from good, to interesting, to not so bad.  Beaker's Dozen is somewhat uneven in quality, but even the not so bad stories have potential to stimulate the reader's imagination. Beggars in Spain, Feigenbaum Number, Ars Longa, and Flowers of Aulit Prison are really quite good and warrant five stars.  Overall, I gave this collection four stars.	2005-08-29
US	49618395	RPIO7JDMRS589	0374181004	529172049	Keats	Books	3	39	41	N	N	Carefully Researched Biography - Perhaps Too Detailed for Casual Reading	Andrew Motion made extensive use of primary documents, including the fascinating letters of John Keats, to explore the personal, social, economic, and political context in which Keats created his remarkable poetry. This biography of John Keats ranks among the most carefully researched, best documented, and most detailed available. Andrew Motion's work will undoubtedly serve as essential critical reference work for English majors.    However, this highly detailed approach does make this biography rather formidable. I occasionally found myself lost in the details, searching for some path that would lead me closer to Keats' poetry. This is a long biography, almost 600 pages. I enjoyed those sections most in which Motion examined influences on particular poetry by Keats. In retrospect, I should have browsed some chapters, and even skipped some sections, rather than persistently read every page.      I have subsequently read a shorter biographical analysis by Stuart Sperry, titled Keats the Poet (Princeton University Press, 1973) that is better suited for a reader that desires to focus more closely on Keats' poetry, rather than upon details of Keats' personal life. The chapters have titles like The Allegory of Endymion, The First Hyperion, and From The Eve of St. Mark to La Belle Dame sans Merci, clearly illustrating the close alignment between biographical study and poetic interpretation.	2005-08-27
US	49618395	RNQBC2U4HK9B6	0809309629	11730339	It Seems I Am a Jew: A Samizdat Essay on Soviet Mathematics (Science and International Affairs)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Judenfrei Mathematics - Self-Destructive Russian Anti-Semitism	Written in the late 1970s, this disturbing essay on Russian anti-Semitism provides - in hindsight - a clear example of one of the many corrupting, self-destructive forces that operated within the Soviet bureaucracy and contributed to the eventual collapse of the Soviet empire. The author, Grigori Freiman, was a noted mathematician, a professor, and a member of the Communist Party. His samizdat essay was a plea for fairness and justice in the selection of Jewish candidates for advance training in mathematics. He also warned that Russian anti-Semitism was undermining the future of mathematics in the Soviet Union.     Samizdat refers to the self-publishing of underground literature in Russia under Communism. A copy of Grigori Freiman's samizdat essay reached the United States in 1978. Southern Illinois University Press in 1980 published this small book, It Seems I Am a Jew, in cooperation with the Committee of Concerned Scientists. Melvyn Nathanson prepared the introduction as well as translated Freiman's essay into English.    It Seems I Am A Jew is less than 100 pages (even including the forward, introduction, and a three part appendix). The essay itself is riveting, and most readers will likely read this disturbing essay in a single sitting. I highly recommend Freiman's remarkable essay to a wide audience that includes essentially any reader interested in history, concerned with the current political situation in Russia, or concerned with injustice wherever it occurs.    The appendix will appeal more to readers that have an interest in mathematics. Extremely difficult test questions were reserved for Jewish students (and sometimes for testing non-Russians from the more distant Soviet republics).  These questions were designed to ensure that all Jewish candidates failed, even Jewish winners of the Soviet Union's Mathematics Olympiad.  By the late 1970s the mathematics section of the Soviet Academy of Sciences had nearly achieved the goal of Judenfrei mathematics.	2005-08-26
US	49618395	R3DVAB1Z1VERZG	0878059385	554822453	Roosevelt's Blues: African-American Blues and Gospel Songs on FDR (American Made Music Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Unique Study of the Blues, Politics, and History - A Surprisingly Good Book	Prior to the long presidency of Franklin Roosevelt, black Americans largely voted Republican. Guido Van Rijn's analyzes blues and gospel lyrics that contained social and political comments to shed light on the question of why Roosevelt became so popular among blacks. Roosevelt's Blues is a uniquely fascinating blend of blues lyrics and political history that will appeal to a wide range of readers.  <br /> <br />The chapters need not be read in sequence; the reader can skip to topics of special interest, like Got a Job on the WPA, or The Scottsboro Boys, or Uncle Sam is Calling. The blues lyrics are entertaining in themselves, but more importantly they provide a deeper, more personal insight into the Great Depression that is often missing from standard accounts. <br /> <br />The chapters address key events from 1929-1945 including the hard times of the Hoover days (1929-31), the first relief efforts through the Red Cross stores (1933), the CWA (1934), the bonus payment and the PWA (1936), the WPA projects (1937), the draft (1940), the approach of war (1941), Pearl Harbor (1942), wartime rationing (1943), and FDR's death (1945). The last chapter summarizes the conclusions of Van Rijn's analysis.  <br /> <br />Van Rijn enhanced his text with numerous lyrics, record labels, and historical photographs. An appendix includes extensive notes, a bibliography, a song index, and a discography.  <br /> <br />A suggestion to history teachers: To many students the 1920s and 1930s are only vaguely known as those decades bounded by two world wars. The chapters on the Depression years in most standard high school and first year college textbooks are perhaps notable for being somewhat uninteresting. Van Rijn's Roosevelt's Blues could enliven classroom discussions, as well as serve as a good example of political and social research. Roosevelt's Blues also demonstrates that reading history can prove fascinating and enjoyable.	2005-08-21
US	49618395	R3UVMUX48DHWFJ	0679722068	282010593	Death in Venice: And Seven Other Stories	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Good Introduction to Thomas Mann - Intriguing, Complex Stories	The long novels of Thomas Mann can prove challenging, not unlike those of Henry James. Fortunately, this varied collection - Death in Venice and Seven Other Stories - offers an easier way to become acquainted with Mann's intellectual, psychologically complex literature. <br /> <br />Thomas Mann's lengthy sentences and complex grammatical structures markedly complicate the task of translation. H. T. Lowe-Porter's translation is considered the most accessible version, although at the expense of subdividing many of Mann's sentences. (For comparison with an excellent literal version, look at Stanley Appelbaum's translation of Death in Venice, Dover Publications, 1995). <br />  <br />Death in Venice and Seven Other Stories was first published by Vintage Books in 1954. My edition was printed by Vintage International in 1989; it has neither an introduction nor explanatory notes. <br /> <br />Death in Venice (1911):  While vacationing in Venice, the aging, highly respected author Gustave Ashenbach becomes mesmerized by a young boy staying at the seashore with his Polish aristocratic family. Although intellectually aware of his growing obsession, Ashenbach is unable to break away.  This somber portrayal of a troubled man is a masterpiece of subtle nuances that illustrates Thomas Mann's ability to create layers of meaning. <br /> <br />Tonio Kroger (1903) is perhaps more biographical as it explores a writer's internal conflict between his desire to be accepted, that is to fit in to a bourgeois life, and his contradictory need to follow his artistic temperament wherever it might lead him. <br />  <br />Mario and the Magician (1929) is more explicitly political, depicting in the guise of an unscrupulous hypnotist a Mussolini-like character. The ending of this intriguing account is a surprise. <br /> <br />The setting in Disorder and Early Sorrow (1925) is Munich, less than a decade after World War I, amid rampant inflation and social upheaval. The narrator, Professor Cornelius,is saddened by the loss of tradition, exemplified by modern art, music, and dance forms so popular with his older children, now young adults. He finds refuge in his study of history. Early sorrow refers to an incident involving his five year-old daughter, Ellie. <br /> <br />A Man and His Dog (1918) is personal, humorous, and almost idyllic, quite different from the more serious topics addressed in the other stories in this collection. <br /> <br />The Blood of the Walsungs (1905) is the most disturbing story in this collection. The two key characters exhibit an aristocratic arrogance and elitism that culminates in incest. In an opera scene Mann draws a close parallel between his two protagonists and Siegmund and Sieglinde in Wagner's Die Walkure. <br /> <br />Tristan (1902) has been described as a retelling of the legend of Tristan and Isolde set in a sanatorium. Detlev Spinell, a tuberculosis patient staying in the Dr. Leander's medical facility, becomes infatuated with another patient, Herr Kloterjahn's wife. Spinell is a largely unsuccessful writer, one that has difficulty relating to others. <br /> <br />In Felix Krull (1911) the narrator is a self-serving, unscrupulous, amoral, confidence man that is somehow likeable. The story ends abruptly, leaving the reader wondering what happens next.  Forty years later Thomas Mann resumed work on this story and in 1954 he published the novel The Confessions of Felix Krull, a light, often hilarious account of a man who wins the favor and love of others by enacting the roles that they desire of him. <br /> <br />Thomas Mann was born in Germany in 1875. He was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1929. He left Germany in 1933, living primarily in Switzerland and the United States until his death in 1955.	2005-08-20
US	49618395	R2DLCXX47ECMUO	B0007ET5HI	771148459	Death in Rome	Books	4	20	21	N	N	Controversial Conclusions Continue to Reverberate	This 1967 best seller, Death in Rome by Robert Katz, recounts the infamous Ardeatine Caves massacre, retribution by the Germans for a partisan attack on SS troops in Rome. Death in Rome is presented from the perspective of varied participants, many whom Katz was able to interview personally. The narrative style employed by Katz is quite similar to that used by Cornelius Ryan in his immensely popular book, The Longest Day. <br /> <br />Death in Rome is fast paced and suspenseful; in many ways it is more like a adventure thriller than a historical account. The normally punctual SS troops were several hours late on that fateful day, severely testing the nerve and will of the partisans as they waited for the column to appear along the narrow Via Rasella in the center of Rome. Hitler was furious and ordered the immediate execution of ten Italians for every German killed. The obsequious Himmler went further and urged the immediate deportation of all Italian men from Rome. <br /> <br />The author's controversial accusation that Pope Pius XII had become aware of the German orders for reprisal and chose not to intervene for political reasons catapulted this book onto the best seller's list. However, in 1974 Katz was prosecuted in Rome on libel charges that his unjust accusation of Pope Pius's complicity in the Ardeatine Caves massacre was \\"defaming the memory\\" of the pope. He was found guilty and sentenced, but eventually upon appeal his case was dismissed on the basis of a general amnesty, not on the specific merits of the case. <br /> <br />Robert Katz has continued to write on this topic, and recently (2003) he published a more lengthy book titled The Battle for Rome: The Germans, The Allies, The Partisans, and The Pope, September 1943 - June 1944. Katz remains critical of Pope Pius XII. <br /> <br />The 1967 first edition, hard cover Macmillan publication of Death in Rome is immediately recognizable by its vivid dust jacket; green, white, and red bands of the modern Italian flag are overlain by a black swastika. In 1968 Pyramid publishers released a mass market paperback edition with a bright red cover.	2005-08-13
US	49618395	R3PSUW0ERQUANV	0486244016	254570232	Prelude to Mathematics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	30	30	N	N	Projective Geometry, Matrices, Groups, Transformations and More	W. W. Sawyer argues that the pleasure given by a unifying discovery is greatest when a person has struggled with masses of undigested information in an old form. In support of this thesis he reveals unexpected relationships and interdepencies between various topics that might at first seem entirely independent and unrelated.    Despite the wide range of mathematical topics, Prelude to Mathematics only assumes that the reader remembers some basic algebra, geometry, and trigonometry. Calculus is not required.  The reader is generally free to skip around; Sawyer has indicated where two chapters are more closely linked and should be read in sequence.    This short book consists of two largely independent sections. The first five chapters (about 60 pages) - On Beauty and Power, What are the Qualities of a Mathematician, Pattern in Elementary Mathematics, Generalization in Elementary Mathematics, and On Unification - provide a general overview of mathematics and mathematical thought.     Chapters 6 through 14 examine more advanced topics often not encountered in lower level mathematics courses.    I especially enjoyed Sawyer's overview of Projective Geometry and its companion chapter, Apparent Impossibilities. Sawyer's discussion of matrices from the perspective of coordinate transformations (rotations, reflections, and stretches) was surprisingly effective. Determinants are traditionally taught before matrices; Sawyer deliberately reverses the order.     Also, the chapters titled On Transformations and On Groups were quite good. The three chapters titled Non-Euclidian Geometries, Algebra without Arithmetic, and Finite Arithmetics and Geometries are good, but perhaps a little dated.    Prelude to Mathematics was first published in 1955 and reprinted as an inexpensive soft cover Dover edition in 1982.    Looking beyond Prelude to Mathematics, I highly recommend Foundations and Fundamental Concepts in Mathematics by Howard Eves for the chapters on non-Euclidian geometries and abstract algebras.  Richard Courant's classic text, What is Mathematics? - An Elementary Approach to Ideas and Methods, is another good choice, however, it is a little more advanced.       For the reader intrigued with Sawyer's discussions of matrices, transformations, and groups, I suggest two inexpensive Dover editions: Matrices and Transformations by Anthony Pettofrezzo and An Introduction to Matrices, Sets, and Groups for Science Students by G. Stephenson.	2005-08-11
US	49618395	R3DG5KTPP9ZRJD	0312284462	60606742	Teewinot: Climbing and Contemplating the Teton Range	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Thoughtful Mix of Philosophy and Climbing Stories	In twelve chapters Jack Turner has compiled a representative year in the Tetons, an impressionistic collage of his twenty-two years as a mountain guide in the Grand Teton National Park. His account begins not on January 1, but on the first day of the month of May, the date that the roads in the park are officially opened.    The subtitle - Climbing and Contemplating the Teton Range - is a succinct, accurate description of this intriguing, thoughtful, poignant work. Jack Turner's evocative and meditative account has few peers. Perhaps, Primo Levi's remarkable biography, The Periodic Table, is an apt comparison.    I first climbed in the Tetons in the mid-1960s, about the time that Jack Turner was becoming familiar with these remarkable mountains. Nearly everyone that has climbed in the Tetons has imagined becoming a professional mountain guide. Few actually transform this dream into reality. Jack Turner, clearly the exception, has created a fascinating account of his career with Exum Mountain Guides.    Turner observes that the Exum guides have little in common save their love of the mountains and their shared life, a matrix of old friendships, alliances, feuds, arcane traditions, eccentric preferences, and mutual understandings. Some arrive in old, weathered pick-ups; others drive a Mercedes or Lexus. These friends generally part at summer's end, as guides, like most fauna in the Tetons, migrate annually to warmer climes.    I have read Teewinot at least twice. I now enjoy reading a chapter at random. Turner  intertwines his personal philosophic observations with detailed, highly knowledgeable descriptions of the flora, fauna, geology, and weather that uniquely define the Teton Range. His accounts of difficult climbs are fascinating. Reading Teewinot is a rare pleasure.	2005-08-11
US	49618395	R2I97E89KMU1VN	0881843032	364124091	Murder With Malice	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Lighter and Less Serious, with Humorous Characterizations	Murder with Malice (1940), the American title, is less appropriate than the British title Malice in Wonderland. The plot centers on identifying the Mad Hatter, a prankster that repeatedly disrupts activities at Wonderland, a popular summer vacation camp. No one has been injured, but Nigel Strangeways is commissioned to catch the Mad Hatter before something more serious occurs.     I have read five other Nigel Strangeways mysteries, and comparatively, Murder with Malice is lighter and less serious, even humorous, largely due to the amusing characters that populate the Wonderland locale.     Mr. Paul Perry is an overly earnest about his new profession, Mass Observation, the statistical study of crowds.  The young, vibrant, flirtatious Sally Thistlewaite is intrigued by this serious young man, perhaps because she is not accustom to meeting men who are seemingly immune to her charms. Contrastingly, the decidedly seductive camp secretary, Miss Esmeralda Jones, seemingly has little trouble maintaining Mr. Perry's attention.    Sally's father, the portly Mr. James Thistlewaite, is a tailor of fine suits for men of distinction; Nigel Strangeways himself was a client during his years at Oxford. Mr. Thistlewaite considers himself an amateur detective and enthusiastically shares his deductions with Strangeways.     The chubby, embarrassingly inept Albert Morley is repeatedly the target of practical jokes from fellow vacationers, but he seems unmindful of the jokes. And in the background is an unfriendly hermit that lives in the woods adjacent to the Wonderland property, clearly a candidate for the role of the Mad Hatter.    Although published in 1940, Murder with Malice was apparently written immediately prior to the out break of war in Europe. The comments regarding a nearby military training facility make no reference to any ongoing hostilities.     Nicholas Blake was a pseudonym used by the poet Cecil Day-Lewis, who later became poet laureate of England.	2005-07-06
US	49618395	R1BVL4ZSXS8A6C	0803212488	538428659	The Untamed	Books	4	32	33	N	N	The Untamed - Enjoyable, Enigmatic, Classic Western	Whistlin' Dan Berry is undoubtedly one of the most enigmatic characters in Western fiction. With uncanny abilities he controls a wild stallion, appropriately named Satan, and a ferocious wolf dog, Black Bart. Naive and easy going, Berry proves absolutely unforgiving when physically assaulted by a feared, vicious outlaw, Jim Silent. Seemingly without any moderating emotions, Whistlin' Dan is relentless in his vengeful search for Silent and his outlaw gang. <br /> <br />The Untamed (1919), Max Brand's first western novel, was radically different from earlier, more realistic, classic works like James Fenimore Cooper's The Prairie, Owen Wister's The Virginian, and Zane Grey's Riders of the Purple Sage. In The Untamed we readers learn little about the protagonist; his origin, his remarkable skills, and his animal-like instincts, remain shadowed in mystery.  <br /> <br />We also have little idea where the story takes place. Brand's geography is vaguely familiar and yet is clearly fictional, even mythical. Harsh, unforgiving deserts and mountains markedly shape the character and code of his fictional ranchers, heroes, and outlaws. There is an accepted definition of honor, right, and wrong, but fundamentally, all must find ways to survive in this rugged environment. <br /> <br />Max Brand's westerns may not meet the criteria of great literature, but The Untamed is certainly good pulp fiction. Brand's enigmatic Whistlin' Dan Berry warrants your acquaintance. <br /> <br />My hard cover edition of The Untamed is a publication of the University of Nebraska Press. It includes a short, interesting introduction by William A. Bloodworth, Jr. He is the author of Max Brand (New York: Twayne Publishers, 1993), a biographical examination of Brand's fascinating career.  <br /> <br />Max Brand, the best known pseudonym of Frederick Faust, created more than 300 western novels.	2005-07-05
US	49618395	R2DPZ058QKMIOF	0486275523	454318525	The Beast in the Jungle and Other Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Studies of Obsession, Subtle Nuances, Intellectually Haunting	This Dover edition - titled The Beast in the Jungle and Other Stories - provides three short stories that are among the finest of their genre, although defining the genre itself is not without difficulty. Only The Jolly Corner might be classed a ghost story. These superb studies of obsession might be best described as nuanced, subtle, and intellectually haunting, and are among the best short works of Henry James.    The Alter of the Dead (1895): George Stransom \\"had perhaps not more losses than most men, but he counted his losses more: he hadn't seen death more closely, but had in a manner felt it more deeply.\\"      The Beast in the Jungle (1903): John Marcher had from his earliest time, deep within him, \\"the sense of being kept for something rare and strange, possibly prodigious and terrible, that was sooner or later to happen\\" and he had in his bones the foreboding and conviction that it might overwhelm him. Despite its suspense and deep sense of despair, this classic tale has been described as sluggish and overly ornate. Be that as it may, this foreboding tale is memorable.    The Jolly Corner (1908): Returning after decades in Europe to his vacant, empty home in New York, Spencer Brydon would in the gathering dusk \\"wander and wait, linger and listen, feel his fine attention, never in his life so fine, on the pulse of the great vague place: he preferred the lampless hour and only wished he might have prolonged each day the deep crepuscular spell.\\"    I have read this collection on three, perhaps four occasions. The works of Henry James, like that of William Faulkner, continue to improve with subsequent readings, undoubtedly the mark of great literature. For the reader unfamiliar with the writings of Henry James, this little collection would be an excellent introduction to his challenging prose. I highly recommend this Dover edition.	2005-07-05
US	49618395	R122KTCA2TKG47	0811213552	202704683	The Yellow Arrow (New Directions Paperbook)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Post-Communism Parable - Blends Satire and Fantasy	I had not previously encountered Victor Pelevin, winner of the 1993 Russian Booker prize for Short Stories. Apparently, The London Times places him \\"in the forefront of Russian literature\\". If this little novella, The Yellow Arrow, is representative of his creative output, Pelevin is uniquely imaginative and inventive, and perhaps a bit strange. <br /> <br />The Yellow Arrow is a very long train, possibly infinite in extent. Conventional wisdom suggests that this train - which never makes a stop - will ultimately terminate at a ruined bridge. The passengers have no recollection of an earlier existence. Life in the passenger cars has little meaning or purpose; people survive by whatever means possible. Corruption, violence, poverty, and growing mysticism are accepted facts. The disparity in wealth is glaringly evident. <br /> <br />On one level The Yellow Arrow is an obvious metaphor for contemporary Russian society and its seemingly meaningless future. Pelevin's parable likely has multiple meanings that might require multiple readings to decipher. The reader may, however, simply choose to ignore the varied interpretations and simply travel along the Yellow Arrow as a passenger. That might be the best strategy on the first reading. <br /> <br />Victor Pelevin is indeed an inventive and imaginative writer, and a bit strange.	2005-07-05
US	49618395	R2BAI3P7TSI23O	080321247X	920323662	Trailin'	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Trailin' - Good Introduction to Max Brand's Mythical West	Richard Etulain, a history professor at University of New Mexico and editor of this 1994 University of Nebraska Press edition of Trailin' (1920), rightly cautions that not all readers will find Brand's pulp westerns entirely satisfactory. He does argue, however, that Trailin' - one of Brand's early westerns - warrants reading (and I agree) as it vividly illustrates Brand's almost magical, archetypal western that was so popular in the years before World War II. <br /> <br />The setting in Trailin' is vague and uncertain, and apparently this is typical of Max Brand's stories. We only know that it occurs somewhere in Brand's mythical west. (Contrastingly, Louis L'Amour's geography and landmarks were carefully researched.) <br /> <br />Brand's characters are nearly as mythical as his geography. The hero in Trailin', Anthony Bard, overcomes all obstacles to track the killer of his father across the open plains and mountains of the wild west. Bard's success is especially remarkable as he had no prior wilderness experience, having been raised in a wealthy setting in New York.  <br /> <br />His cold, calculating adversary, Steve Nash, is a classic villain, one who even resorts to killing Bard's horse. The action-packed plot had some unexpected twists, but ultimately the ending seem contrived, revealing a secret that could have been disclosed much earlier. <br /> <br />Max Brand was one of the many pseudonyms of Frederick Schiller Faust, creator of more than 350 westerns in the 1920s and 1930s.   <br /> <br />Today, classics like Shane, The Big Sky, The Virginian, Lonesome Dove, The Ox-Bow Incident, and Monte Walsh as well as L'Amour's popular fiction largely overshadow Brand's novels.  Nonetheless, despite a notable lack of verisimilitude, Max Brand's action tales offer enjoyable, light reading for fans of westerns.	2005-06-18
US	49618395	RRA54MBNSQJLF	187994135X	290037438	Nashville 1864 -The Dying of the Light: A Novel	Books	4	8	8	N	N	An Authentic Southern Voice - Good Fiction, Good History	I am sometimes disappointed with fictional accounts of the U.S. Civil War, perhaps because the historical accounts are so remarkable in themselves that they seldom benefit from fictional license. There are indeed exceptions, splendid novels like The Red Badge of Courage, Andersonville, The Killer Angels, and the subject of this review, Nashville 1864 - The Dying of the Light, by Madison Jones. <br /> <br />In this fascinating short novel Confederates forces are continuing to fight against overwhelming odds, with little hope of victory.  Nashville has been occupied by Northern soldiers since February, 1862. In a desperate attempt, General Hood's shattered forces, severely crippled shortly before in the disastrous battle at Franklin, Tennessee, are now engaging the Union Army in what is today called the Battle of Nashville, December 15 and 16, 1864. <br /> <br />Madison Jones portrays this battle and its immediate aftermath from the perspective of a young boy, Steven Moore, as he searches for his father among the wounded Confederate soldiers. The story is presented as a memoir written by the adult Steven Moore many years after the actual event, but nonetheless filled with detail and emotion that remained deeply etched in his memory. Steven Moore had not forgiven the North for its severe, mean-spirited occupation of Nashville, especially the period under General Rosecrans. <br /> <br />This short novel, Nashville 1864 - The Dying of the Light, is good, powerful fiction, and it is also good history.	2005-06-17
US	49618395	R2LV8G0INB7H9S	0871560925	244796505	Hiking the Teton Backcountry (A Sierra Club Totebook)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Out-of-Date, Out-of Print - May Appeal to Collectors	For several summers I carried the first edition (1973) of the Sierra Club Totebook - Hiking the Teton Backcountry. Long ago I misplaced my guidebook, but recently I found a copy at a local library book sale.    Pocket size, low weight, and durability were its key attributes. The trail descriptions were perhaps too concise, but overall it was a useful guide in the 1970s. Today, this out-of-date, little 160-page book is amusing, and may appeal to collectors.    The sections on hiking gear, food, and trail safety illustrate how much has changed.  We are advised that a canteen is not essential as running water is plentiful; no mention is made of treating, filtering, or boiling stream and lake water. Terry stitched socks, either cotton or synthetic fibers, are considered more comfortable than heavy wool socks.  Long pants of wool or cotton twill are best. A light down jacket is preferable to bulky, wool sweaters. Packs with light weight, magnesium frames are recommended for heavy loads.  A good quality goose down sleeping bag will cost $80 or more. Tents should not be viewed as luxury items as tarps offer too little protection in high mountain country. A tough, light weight, nylon poncho coated with plastic resin is highly recommended. A flashlight is essential; no mention is made of headlamps.    The author, Paul Lawrence, mentions trail foods by brand name:  Tang, Milkman (a more palatable powered milk), Perma-Pak (a creamy, powered milk product), Granola cereal, Darigold canned butter, Wilson's bacon bars, Wyler's fruit-ades, Mount Logan bread, and Pilot Biscuits. There is a discussion of \\"today's wide variety of freeze dried entrees\\". Lawrence recommends Mountain House products. Bleuet butane stoves are easy to use, but white gas stoves like Svea and Optimus are better at low temperatures.    For those looking for a more current guidebook, I suggest Teton Trails - A Guide to the Trails of Grand Teton National Park by Katy Duffy and Darwin Wile. It offers detailed trail descriptions and updated information on hiking gear, backcountry rules and etiquette.	2005-06-12
US	49618395	R2N80OX6K4WJ9W	0486287734	3114400	Daisy Miller (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Daisy Miller - A Lesson in Observation	Henry James, one of America's foremost authors in the late 1800s and early 1900s, is primarily remembered and respected for his vivid portrayals of Americans abroad and their encounters with the cultural differences that divided the brash, young, immature American continent from the sophisticated, class conscious Old World. This novella, Daisy Miller (1878), was his first literary success.    From the moment we meet Daisy Miller she is enigmatic, either the epitome of incautious innocence or reckless to the extreme. She disregards European customs, quite assured in her own judgment that she is doing no wrong, only flirting with young gentlemen as would any American girl. As the story progresses, aware of building criticism from the expatriate community, Daisy still chooses to ignore advice from well-meaning, socially prominent women.    We need to recognize that we see Daisy not from the perspective of an omniscient author that is privy to Daisy's innermost thoughts, but through the eyes of a third person, a Mr. Winterbourne, an American bachelor living in Geneva.  Winterbourne is obviously attracted to and fascinated by this young, confident, perhaps audacious, visitor from America. Winterbourne's assessment of Daisy Miller is more sympathetic, more balanced, and more reliable than that of the snobbish Mrs. Costello in Vevay in Switzerland and Mrs. Walker in Rome. Or, so I thought upon my first reading.    In his first meeting with Daisy in a hotel garden Winterbourne is both charmed and puzzled by her conversation, and reflects to himself: \\"He felt that he had lived at Geneva so long that he had lost a good deal; he had become dishabituated to the American tone.\\"    In retrospect I have come to realize that Henry James was cautioning his readers that Mr. Winterbourne's observations and assessments may not be entirely reliable and accurate. This theme recurs throughout this short story, often in different forms and in different contexts, and is the source of much of the fascination of this tale.    Daisy Miller's most egregious behavior revolves around a growing friendship with a Mr. Giovanelli, a not too successful Italian lawyer, that is characterized by others as little more than an imitation gentleman. But to Daisy, Mr. Giovanelli is urbane, charming, and sincere in his friendship. However, we see that her continual disregard of social conventions, such as taking walks with Mr. Giovanelli without a chaperone, evens forces Mr. Winterbourne to question whether he himself is too lenient in his attitude toward Daisy.    The abrupt ending leaves the reader with ambiguity. Winterbourne's loss has a vagueness; he never quite understood Daisy. Contrastingly, the reader - with the assistance of the artistry of Henry James - will likely have a better appreciation of Daisy's true qualities and see what Winterbourne failed to recognize.	2005-06-08
US	49618395	R3HG68SHQNOSS	0486287149	282010593	Death in Venice (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	58	60	N	N	Excellent Translation in Dover Edition - Helpful Commentary	Death in Venice (1912) is a disturbing story, one that is not easy to forget. It is also exceptional literature, a classic of the twentieth century. Thomas Mann's Death in Venice might be best compared to the subtle, psychologically complex fiction of Henry James, Joseph Conrad, and Fyodor Dostoevsky.      In Munich the aging, highly respected author Gustav Aschenbach is in need of change, rest in a new setting, to overcome his growing fatigue that is impacting his writing. While recovering in Venice, Aschenbach slowly, but inexorably, becomes mesmerized by a young Polish boy staying at the seashore with his aristocratic family. Aschenbach is intellectually aware of his growing obsession, but he is seemingly unable to break away. Thomas Mann's somber portrayal of this troubled man is a masterpiece of subtle nuances and psychological intensity.    Thomas Mann's lengthy sentences and complex grammatical structures severely complicate the task of translating Death in Venice. I have read two excellent and yet substantially different translations. The most faithful translation is by Stanley Appelbaum (in this Dover edition, 1995) that tries to be as literal as possible, carefully preserving the comparative length of the original sentences as well as the internal sequence of each original German sentence. Contrastingly, the H. T. Lowe-Porter translation (found elsewhere) is less literal, but is considered the most delightful and readable version, although at the expense of subdividing many of Mann's lengthy sentences. Lowe-Porter's version has been the standard translation for many years.       The Dover edition provides an excellent 10-page commentary, including footnotes.	2005-05-29
US	49618395	R1P1TUXXW40W0O	0486275582	221362295	Ode to the West Wind and Other Poems	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Inexpensive Introduction to a Challenging Poet - Shelley	This inexpensive Dover edition, Selected Poems - Percy Bysshe Shelley, offers a good introduction to Shelley's wide ranging poetry. These thirty-seven poems, arranged chronologically from 1814-1822, span about 125 pages. The large font makes for easy reading. No footnotes are provided. <br /> <br />I have read this Dover edition several times in the last several years as well as two other short selections of Shelley's poetry. Despite my growing familiarity with his poems, I still find Shelley to be decidedly more challenging than Keats, Wordsworth, Coleridge, or Byron.  <br /> <br />This increased difficulty is especially evident in Shelley's longer poems. Like me, many readers are likely to become initially disoriented and confused by Shelley's layered and embedded metaphors. Fortunately, with a bit of persistence, careful attention, and multiple readings, most readers will become proficient in unraveling, and appreciating, Shelley's intricate patterns of connected imagery. <br /> <br />This Dover edition includes six of these longer, more challenging poems (even the titles are lengthy): Lines Written among the Euganean Hills (1818), Julian and Maddalo: A Conversation (1818), The Mask of Anarchy - Written on the Occasion of the Massacre at Manchester (1819), Letter to Maria Gisborne (1820), Epipsychidion (1821) - Verses Addressed to the Noble and Unfortunate Lady, Emilia Viviani Imprisoned in the Convent of -----, and Adonais - An Elegy on the Death of John Keats, Author of Endymion, Hyperion, etc. <br /> <br />The remaining thirty-one poems range from a dozen lines to a couple pages. I suggest that the reader new to Shelley focus on shorter poems, reserving the longer excursions for later. The four poems Ozymandias, The Cloud, Ode to the West Wind, and To Night make a good starting point.	2005-05-28
US	49618395	RA3J7BZFVPAX3	0312215541	270366337	Encyclopedia of Murder and Mystery	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Gift for a Mystery Buff - Fun to Browse	This 543-page compilation, The Encyclopedia of Murder and Mystery by Bruce Murphy, will likely appeal to mystery buffs, especially those interested in authors from past years.    Some entries are quite short, while others like Ellery Queen spanned two pages. Most entries are authors, but we also find classic titles like The Postman Always Rings Twice, Coffin for Dimitrios, Fer-De-Lance, The Big Clock, Murder on the Orient Express, and The Roman Hat Mystery.    My favorites were always present: Colin Dexter, P. D. James, G. K. Chesterton, Robert Van Gulik, Ellery Queen, John MacDonald, Ross MacDonald, Nicholas Blake, Cornell Woolrich, Dorothy Sayers, Conan Doyle, Wilkie Collins, Arturo Perez-Reverte, and Dashiell Hammett.    Lesser known authors include Fergus Hume (The Mystery of a Hansom Cab, 1886), Maurice Leblanc (Arsene Lupin stories, early 1900s), R. Austin Freeman (Dr. Thorndyke stories, 1907- 1930s), Cyril Hare (Suicide Excepted, 1939), and Elliot Paul (The Mysterious Mickey Finn, 1939).  I recall only two searches in which I was unsuccessful: R. T. Campbell (Bodies in a Bookshop, 1946) and H. F. Wood (The Passenger from Scotland Yard, 1888).    Many writers known in other literary genre at one time or another penned mystery stories. Examples include Mario Vargas Llosa, Charles Dickens, Honore De Balzac, Isaac Asimov, Henry James, Edgar Allen Poe, Ray Bradbury, Alexandre Dumas, Friedrich Durrenmatt, Jorge Luis Borges, Mark Twain, and J. Sheridan Le Fanu.    For those readers that not only enjoy reading books, but also reading about books and authors, The Encyclopedia of Murder and Mystery by Bruce Murphy would make a good gift.    Caution:  The list price for The Encyclopedia of Murder and Mystery by Bruce Murphy is rather high, and the prudent buyer should look for substantial discounts. I paid a small fraction of the list price for a new hardbound copy (ISBN 0312215441). It is also available in soft cover (ISBN 031229414X).	2005-05-28
US	49618395	R1EDDSPK7CXRLD	0060807822	916168131	Minute for Murder	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Good Story, Intriguing Setting:  London shortly after VE Day	I thoroughly enjoyed Minute for Murder (1947). War in Europe is over but continues in the Pacific. Nigel Strangeways is still working at the Ministry of Morale, a bureaucratic wartime agency in London.  When a colleague is poisoned, Strangeways is again paired with his good friend Superintendent Blount of Scotland Yard. The abundant red herrings in Minute for Murder is likely to mislead even the astute reader of mystery stories.    Cecil Day-Lewis (Nicholas Blake was a pseudonym) authored sixteen Nigel Strangeways mysteries spanning three decades (1935-1966). Minute for Murder is perhaps more biographical than many of his stories; Day-Lewis actually worked in the wartime Ministry of Information from 1941-1946. I was especially intrigued with his description of daily life in wartime London.     Cecil Day-Lewis was professor of poetry at Oxford in 1951-56, and a lecturer in the 1960s at several universities. He was Poet Laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972. The actor Daniel Day-Lewis is his son.    I highly recommend the Nigel Strangeways mysteries. Although I only recently encountered the  stories of Nicholas Blake, I have now read five: Minute for Murder (1947), Head of a Traveler (1949), End of Chapter (1957), The Widow's Cruise (1959), and The Worm of Death (1961).    It may be necessary to buy used copies online. The Strangeways stories were reprinted as Perennial Library paperbacks by Harper Collins Publishers. Another source (The Nicholas Blake Treasury) is an inexpensive, four volume, hardcover, book club edition published by the Mystery Guild.	2005-05-16
US	49618395	R34V5UER0NWCWW	0486219569	105115692	The Mystery of a Hansom Cab	Books	3	13	14	N	N	1893 Best Seller - May Appeal to Mystery History Buffs	The Mystery of a Hansom Cab (1893) by Fergus Hume was one of the most popular mysteries in the nineteenth century, apparently even surpassing the sales of Sherlock Holmes books.  While unlikely to attract a wide audience today, this forgotten Australian melodrama should appeal to readers interested in the early development of the mystery story. I gave The Mystery of a Hansom Cab three stars.<br /><br />Late one night on a lonely street in Melbourne, the driver of a Hansom cab (a horse-drawn, two-wheeled, covered carriage) discovers that his inebriated passenger is dead, having been poisoned with a chloroform-soaked handkerchief. All evidence points to Brian Fitzgerald, \\"a tall, handsome, fair-haired young man hailing from Ireland\\". To protect the reputation of a young woman, Fitzgerald refuses to disclose details of his whereabouts at the time of the murder.<br /><br />In his short introduction Fergus Hume reveals that he carefully patterned his story after the then popular detective stories by Gaboriau. Furthermore, Hume repeatedly visited some of Melbourne's worst slums to find realistic characters for his story, like his memorable Mother Guttersnipe. Hume had hoped to receive some local attention for his first novel; he had no expectation of creating an international best seller.<br /><br />Dover Publications should be commended for reprinting hard-to find, early mystery and detective stories like The Mystery of a Hansom Cab (1893). Dover published this reprint in 1982.	2005-05-15
US	49618395	RI2VYQ98T1678	0192825690	530535064	Court Masques: Jacobean and Caroline Entertainments, 1605-1640 (The World's Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Unique Fusion of Dance, Drama, Music, and Stagecraft	More than fifty court masques were held in the period 1605-1640. Eighteen representative masques have been compiled in this Oxford University Press (World's Classics series) book, titled Court Masques. This text offers a good introduction to this largely unfamiliar form of entertainment.<br /><br />The court masque was an extravagant, ostentatious, theatrical spectacle that dominated entertainment in the Stuart courts of King James I and Charles I.  Inordinately costly, these aristocratic entertainments were often a source of friction between the king and parliament. Following the revolution of Oliver Cromwell, court masques came to an end.<br /><br />The editor, David Lindley, provides valuable supplementary material: a general introduction to the court masque, a chronology of Stuart masques, and a select bibliography on general studies, stagecraft, music and dance, as well as sources for Jonson, Campion, Chapman, Daniel, and Davenant.<br /><br />I especially appreciated the extensive explanatory notes as many of the masques presumed audience familiarity with relatively obscure elements of Greek and Roman mythology. The notes also clarified oblique references to sensitive political issues of the Stuart period, even the high cost of the masques themselves.<br /><br />Ben Jonson was clearly the dominant creator of court masques and he was its most pugnacious defender. Throughout this long period Jonson forcefully argued that the key value of court masque was its intellectual message. Contrastingly, the remarkable Indigo Jones that designed and built the complex stage scenery and its associated machinery wrote, \\"... and indeed, these shows are nothing else but pictures with light and motion.\\"<br /><br />Despite the excellent supplementary material and explanatory notes, Court Masques may initially seem difficult, in part due to the unfamiliarity of the masque. In some ways reading a masque is like reading an opera, except that we can easily visualize an operatic performance. David Lindley is to be commended for creating this interesting collection that makes the Jacobean and Caroline court masques accessible to non-specialists.atic performance. David Lindley is to be commended for creating this interesting collection that makes the Jacobean and Caroline court masques accessible to non-specialists.	2005-04-24
US	49618395	R37VFSQEJK7H6H	0764191411	8666890	The Shoemakers' Holiday	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Enjoyable, Accessible, Elizabethan Comedy - Dekker's Best	Despite the passage of four centuries, Thomas Dekker's play, The Shoemakers' Holiday (1599), is still great comedy.  Dekker's hilarious plot is not easy to summarize, but it centers upon a comedic Romeo and Juliet, one in which Romeo - that is, Rowland Lacy, a young aristocrat - disguises himself as a Dutch immigrant, apprentice shoemaker to circumvent his father's objections to his wooing of a middle class Juliet, a Rose Otley. Disguises, mistaken identities, and misdirection abound, and yet this convoluted plot comes together smoothly in the final act without seeming either unduly contrived or artificial.     Dekker's genial portrayal of the shoemakers' guild in London contributes to the charm of The Shoemakers' Holiday. However, colloquial Elizabethan dialogue can be challenging and good footnotes are essential. I recommend an edition published by Barron's Educational Series and edited by Merritt Lawlis.    Three characters pose especial difficulty. Firk, a journeyman shoemaker, spouts a continual flow of obscure sexual innuendoes and bawdy comments. \\"Why here is a good laced mutton, as I promised you.\\"  Also, the conversation of Sybil, Rose's personal maid, is filled with unfamiliar colloquialisms. \\"And the hare's foot against the goose giblets.\\"  And, the Dutch as spoken by the apprentice shoemaker Hans (Lacy in disguise) would be nearly indecipherable without footnotes. \\"Ik hab all de dingen voour mack shoes groot and cleane.\\"      These examples taken out of context may make The Shoemakers' Holiday seem unintelligible, but actually Dekker's play is quite accessible to the modern reader. I did make frequent references to footnotes, but I never lost interest in the plot. Once having mastered Firk's innuendoes, Sybil's colloquialisms, and Lacy's comedic Dutch, my second reading was even more enjoyable.    July, 2006 update:  I recently examined in some detail \\"A New Adaptation by Bernard Sahlins of Dekker's The Shoemaker's Holiday\\".  The intent - judiciously editing Dekker's play to make it more readily accessible to modern readers - is not entirely misplaced, but I found the editing to be excessive.  Aside from whether all deletions were appropriate, I was especially disturbed by the replacement of some 450 words. This revised Dekker is simply too different from the original.  Perhaps one-third of the changes could be defended, but the other two-thirds is unnecessary. I strongly suggest that a potential buyer directly compare the original Dekker to this revised version before making a purchase.    My original recommendation still stands. I prefer Barron's Educational Series edition of The Shoemaker's Holiday. The editing by Merritt Lawlis is quite good.	2005-04-18
US	49618395	R24VW46D70DT1Y	0140177558	134226471	The Romantic Period (The Penguin History of Literature)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Challenging, Rewarding Essays by Distinguished Academics	Published in ten volumes, The Penguin History of Literature is a critical survey of English and American literature. Volume 5, The Romantic Period, is comprised of twelve independent essays authored by distinguished academics. These detailed, thought-provoking essays will appeal primarily to upper level students in history and English literature. David B. Pirie edited this collection as well as contributing the interesting essay on John Keats.    Seven chapters address the works of influential literary figures including Jane Austen, William Blake, William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Lord Byron, Percy Bysshe Shelley, and John Keats. Scholarly, detailed, semi-biographical essays do assume substantial familiarity with their poetry, prose and letters. However, the persistent reader is rewarded with a greater insight into the interplay of politics and literature during this turbulent period of English history.    Five more general chapters are devoted to analyzing political and social change:     Events Have Made Us A World of Readers - a thoughtful, detailed examination of the rapid growth and democratization of the reading public 1780-1830. Universal literacy, initially viewed as a harbinger of anarchy, was seen by the mid-nineteenth century as a precondition for political stability.    Politics and the Novel 1780-1830 - the novel, in 1780 considered the lowest of literary genre, was revitalized by the realization that fiction could be a powerful tool for influencing public opinion. A difficult chapter - I was unacquainted with the writings of period authors like Robert Bage, Charlotte Smith, Elizabeth Inchbald, Jane West, Maria Edgeworth, Amelia Opie, and Thomas Peacock. Only the section on Sir Walter Scott was familiar ground.     Representing the People: Crabbe, Southey, and Hazlitt - popular liberties, popular will, and popular sovereignty were new, problematic concepts. This fascinating essay looks at how three writers very differently approached these new ideas.    Poor Relations: Writing in the Working Class 1770-1835 - The reading public was charitable to literary curiosities (an untutored muse, a Suffolk cottager, an orphan poet, a blind poet, a poetic shoemaker, etc.) provided that appropriate poetic forms, topics, and social norms were observed. Working class authors of revolutionary tracts rarely had access to book publishing.    Orientalism - a detailed (perhaps, overly so) examination of the influence of oriental culture on English Romantic literature and poetry, particularly as British colonialism expanded into India.    Suggestion: The appendix contains a useful Table of Dates (1770-1837), 26-pages in length. I recommend reading (not simply scanning) this intriguing compilation of historical events before studying the essays themselves.  An extensive bibliography is also provided.	2005-04-10
US	49618395	RSL9RCRAE8TST	0060803983	634894555	Head of a Traveler	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Poetry and Murder Intertwined,  A Well-Constructed Mystery	This Nigel Strangeways mystery, Head of a Traveler (1949), offers a traditional manor house setting, erudite suspects, poetic allusions, and a satisfying, layered solution. Poetry and murder become intertwined as the poet Nigel Strangeways investigates a rural murder that involves the family of Robert Seaton, one of the most distinguished poets in England.     For those new to the Strangeways stories, Nicholas Blake was a pseudonym for Cecil Day-Lewis, a respected English poet himself. In fact, Day-Lewis served as poet laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972.    As is typical in a Strangeways mystery, this murder has its roots in the past. Critical past events and hidden relationships are gradually revealed, shifting the spotlight from one suspect to another. In the concluding chapters alternative solutions are considered in rapid sequence, each successive solution fitting the evidence more closely.    Head of a Traveler is an entertaining mystery that would make a good introduction to the Nigel Strangeways series.	2005-04-03
US	49618395	R223DQSNEG72WO	B0006P042I	541458914	The Nicholas Blake Treasury (Volume 4): End of Chapter; The Widow's Cruise; The Worm of Death	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Four Volumes - Twelve Nigel Strangeways Mysteries	The Nicholas Blake Treasury, includes twelve of the sixteen Nigel Strangeways mysteries. Only The Dreadful Hollow (1953), The Whisper in the Gloom (1954), The Sad Variety (1964), and The Morning After Death (1966) are missing.    The first two volumes (burgundy and green covers, respectively) were published by Nelson Doubleday, Inc and the third and fourth editions (orange and blue covers) by the Mystery Guild.    Volume 1: Thou Shell of Death (1936), The Beast Must Die (1938), and The Corpse in the Snowman (1941)    Volume 2: A Question of Proof (1935), There's Trouble Brewing (1937), and The Smiler with the Knife (1939)    Volume 3: Murder with Malice (1940), Minute for Murder (1947), and Head of a Traveler (1949)    Volume 4: End of Chapter (1957), The Widow's Cruise (1959), and The Worm of Death (1961).    End of Chapter (1957): Nigel Strangeways is investigating who might have altered a proof copy of General Thoresby's memoirs, resulting in a libel case against the prestigious publishing firm, Wenham and Geraldine. Matters worsen when the flamboyant romance novelist, Millicent Miles, is murdered one evening in the publisher's office.    The Widow's Cruise (1959): The poet Nigel Strangeways and the well-respected sculptress Claire Massinger are vacationing on a Greek cruise ship. As so often is the case, Strangeways becomes entangled in affairs that lead to murder. Seemingly every passenger has some secret, and much of the fun is sorting out which secrets are red herrings and which are indeed relevant to the mystery itself.    The Worm of Death (1961): Now living with the sculptress Clare Massinger in the small community of Greenwich along the Thames River, Strangeways is asked to investigate the disappearance of a neighbor, the prestigious doctor, Piers Loudron. Not long afterwards Dr. Loudron's body surfaces on the Thames and the case is declared a homicide.    The poet Cecil Day-Lewis (1904-72) gained fame under the pseudonym Nicholas Blake for his stories involving Nigel Strangeways, a fictional poet with a penchant for solving murder mysteries. These well-constructed mysteries are noted as much for their witty dialogue, character development, and psychological complexity as for the puzzle itself. One reviewer observed: Blake will always be a writer for the connoisseur of detective fiction. Cecil Day-Lewis was professor of poetry at Oxford in 1951-56, and a lecturer in the 1960s at several universities. He was Poet Laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972. The actor Daniel Day-Lewis is his son.    Unable to find these book club editions? Try looking for the Nigel Strangeways mysteries reissued as Perennial Library paperbacks by Harper and Row Publishers in the late 1970s.	2005-03-28
US	49618395	R3D6QVNXZLJOI3	0060803991	668804415	The Widow's Cruise	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Enjoyable Exercise in Deduction	I quite enjoyed The Widow's Cruise (1959), the eleventh Nigel Strangeways mystery by Nicholas Blake (a pseudonym for Cecil Day-Lewis, poet laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972). Highly reminiscent of an Agatha Christie story, The Widow's Cruise is a delightful exercise in deduction. Several solutions are quite plausible. The actual solution is a surprise, an entirely fair one as all the clues are indeed visible, at least in retrospect. <br /> <br />The poet Nigel Strangeways and his friend, the well-respected sculptress Claire Massinger, are relaxing on a Greek cruise ship. As so often is the case, Strangeways becomes entangled in affairs that lead to murder. Seemingly every passenger has some secret, and much of the fun is sorting out which secrets are red herrings and which are indeed relevant to the mystery itself.  <br />  <br />The Widow's Cruise was reissued in 1977 in a Perennial Library paperback by Harper and Row Publishers. It can also be found in The Nicholas Blake Treasury, Volume 4, a hardcover book club edition published by the Mystery Guild.	2005-03-27
US	49618395	RPEUWDSEBS3B	0060804009	430693751	The Worm of Death	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Good Characterizations, Good Story	The poet Cecil Day-Lewis (1904 -72) gained popularity under the pseudonym Nicholas Blake for his sixteen mystery stories involving Nigel Strangeways, a poet with a penchant for solving murder mysteries. The Worm of Death (1961) was the twelfth in the series.    Now living with the sculptress Clare Massinger in the small community of Greenwich along the Thames River, Strangeways is asked to investigate the disappearance of a neighbor, the prestigious doctor, Piers Loudron.  Not long afterwards Dr. Loudron's body surfaces on the Thames and the case is declared a homicide.    The Nigel Strangeways stories are noted as much for their witty dialogue, character development, and psychological complexity as for the puzzle itself. The characters are generally well-educated and literate, not unlike the author himself. The settings are typically genteel, reminiscent of stories by Agatha Christie and Dorothy Sayers. The vocabulary is more extensive than generally found in mystery stories, but not to the point of becoming pedantic.     Blake's The Worm of Death is perhaps atypical as the plot is not unduly complex and, like me, many readers may identify the murderer through astute (or lucky) guesswork even before all the clues have been revealed.  Many clues are more subjective in nature than hard facts. Some are revealed obliquely in conversation. Even nuances can be important.    Cecil Day-Lewis was professor of poetry at Oxford in 1951-56, and a lecturer in the 1960s at several universities. He was Poet Laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972. The actor Daniel Day-Lewis is his son.	2005-03-27
US	49618395	R33LS6OYSCIYSE	0060803975	482620664	End of Chapter	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Murder Comes to a Respected Publishing Firm	Nigel Strangeways is investigating who might have altered a proof copy of General Thoresby's memoirs, resulting in a libel case against the prestigious publishing firm, Wenham and Geraldine. Matters worsen when the flamboyant romance novelist, Millicent Miles, is murdered one evening in the publisher's office. End of Chapter (1957) finds Strangeways once again drawn into a homicide case. <br /> <br />Strangeways is at home in this traditional, English publishing firm as he is a successful poet, not unlike the author himself, Cecil Day-Lewis (writing as Nicholas Blake) who served as poet laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972. The chapter titles are appropriately selected from editing terms like setup, first impression, run on, delete, lower case, transpose, etc. <br /> <br />End of Chapter is a good example of a Nigel Strangeways mystery. The characters are well-educated and the dialogue is urbane. The solution involves untangling complex relationships and integrating clues from the past. The solution is not altogether surprising, but it is not obvious either.  <br /> <br />End of Chapter was reissued in 1977 in a Perennial Library paperback by Harper and Row Publishers. It can also be found in The Nicholas Blake Treasury, Volume 4, a hardcover book club edition published by the Mystery Guild.	2005-03-27
US	49618395	R7ME8SMP0R28	0151006091	814475128	A Small Death in Lisbon	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Absorbing, Haunting Tale - Carefully Structured Novel	A Small Death In Lisbon was awarded the Golden Dagger for the Best Crime/Suspense Novel of 1999. Much of the critical praise on the dust jacket is clearly justified. Robert Wilson has crafted a complex, haunting tale of events in Portugal's fascist past that inevitably lead to a sordid murder of a young disturbed, promiscuous girl in modern Lisbon. Carefully structured with a fascinating historical setting populated by absorbing characters - all this and more, and yet I am unable to give five stars to A Small Death In Lisbon. <br /> <br />No one point in Robert Wilson's tale is excessively brutal, nor excessively graphic, and yet Wilson seemingly skirts on the edge of being so. In a slow, cumulative fashion A Small Death in Lisbon became somewhat distasteful and depressing. I had a sense of relief when I was able to set aside this novel.  Many readers may not share my response and I don't wish to overemphasize my reaction. I have little difficulty giving four stars to A Small Death in Lisbon.  <br /> <br />Robert Wilson is to be commended for his skill in weaving together the past and the present. Wilson bridges the initially separate story lines - WWII Nazi intrigue to acquire wolfram from Portugal and a contemporary investigation of a brutal crime in Lisbon - with a disturbing portrait of Portugal's intervening years under the fascist Salazar regime. A Small Death in Lisbon is an absorbing, haunting tale.	2005-02-27
US	49618395	R3QQ50U3K3RIGF	0785802126	404419260	Witness to Gettysburg	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Captivating Eyewitness Accounts, Superb Historical Narrative	Witness to Gettysburg is superb history. Richard Wheeler has masterfully woven eyewitness accounts of the Gettysburg campaign into a remarkable tapestry, an evocative and haunting image of the most decisive battle of the Civil War. <br /> <br />Witness to Gettysburg is gripping narrative. Wheeler adroitly transitions from one account to another, from union soldier to confederate rebel, from army professionals to inexperienced civilians, from contemporary writings to memoirs penned years later. Wheeler maintains the  intense drama of Gettysburg through careful selections, skillful editing, and his own insightful perspectives. Factual errors are corrected with unobtrusive comments in parenthesis. <br /> <br />Richard Wheeler's narrative account of Gettysburg compares favorably with the works of Shelby Foote, James M. McPherson, and Bruce Catton.  Whether Witness to Gettysburg is your first reading on Gettysburg, your second, or your tenth, this exceptional compilation of eyewitness accounts will not disappoint you. <br /> <br />Witness to Gettysburg was originally published in 1987 by HarperCollins Publishers and reprinted in 1994 by The Blue and Grey Press.  Although somewhat grainy, the more than fifty black and white illustrations are a valuable addition.	2005-02-22
US	49618395	R3FGFP3A98VM	1873047762	330621468	Dickens in France: Selected pieces by Charles Dickens on France and the French (Literary Travellers)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Travel Essays by Charles Dickens - Amusing, Witty, Enjoyable	I quite enjoyed this rather obscure collection of travel essays by Charles Dickens. Despite my familiarity with Dickens the novelist, I was unacquainted with Dickens the essayist. This new Dickens was surprisingly humorous and witty.     I recommend without reservations this little collection with its lengthy title: Dickens in France, Selected Pieces by Charles Dickens on France and the French. Not a travel guide, nor a cultural study, Dickens' essays would be best characterized as delightfully humorous travel memoirs.    Contents: Going Through France (from Pictures from Italy), The Calais Night Mail and Traveling Abroad (both from The Uncommercial Traveller), and A Flight and Our French Watering-Place (both from Reprinted Pieces). There are also some short extracts from Dickens' correspondence.    Going Through France begins in Paris as the Dickens family leaves by carriage for vacation in Italy. Dickens is only marginally concerned with geographic features. His interest is people.  We meet his family's personal tour guide, their effusive innkeeper, and a chance encounter, the She-Goblin - a little old swarthy woman with flashing black eyes that enthusiastically and dramatically described the details of the Inquisition in Avignon.    The Calais Night Mail: Dickens knows that he has little liking for Calais, and yet as his seasickness worsens he anxiously peers into the darkness. \\"Sentiments of forgiveness of Calais, not to say attachment to Calais, begin to expand in my bosom.  I have weak notions that I will stay there a day or two on my way back.\\"    A Flight: Leaving London, corn-sheaves, hop-gardens, reapers, gleaners, apple-orchards, and cherry-orchards fly past Dickens' compartment window on the South Eastern Railway Company Express Train. In this essay Dickens shares his amazement: Paris in only eleven hours!    Other literary travel guides and memoirs: I recommend Italian Backgrounds (Edith Wharton), The Face of Spain (Gerald Brenan), and Augustus Hare inItaly. No two are alike in style or substance or period, and Dickens in France continues this pattern, or lack of pattern. All make fascinating reading.	2005-02-17
US	49618395	RXVSLOUW65IO	039447340X	887759454	Cosmopolitan crimes;: Foreign rivals of Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	9	9	N	N	13 Detective Tales by Contemporaries of Arthur Conan Doyle	The early detective stories in Cosmopolitan Crimes: Foreign Rivals of Sherlock Holmes introduce some of his more accomplished foreign contemporaries. These fictional detectives pursued their business in France, Switzerland, South Africa, Belgium, United States, Denmark, Austria, and Canada. Shockingly, one French investigator even had the audacity to work in London. <br /> <br />Hugh Greene compiled these mysteries, all written between 1891, the year Holmes first appeared in the Strand Magazine, and the outbreak of war in 1914.  <br /> <br />My favorites were the seven clever, amusing stories by Grant Allen - 2, Robert Barr - 1, Jacques Futrelle - 2, and Maurice Leblanc - 2. I have occasionally encountered Futrelle's quirky genius, oddly called the Thinking Machine, and Leblanc's brilliant (and unscrupulous) Arsene Lupin, but Allen's Sir Charles Vandrift and his nemesis Colonel Clay were entirely new to me. Also new was Robert Barr's creation, Monsieur Valmont, the audacious investigator that I mentioned earlier.  <br /> <br />Two stories were translated into English for this collection: the delightful Danish tale, A Sensible Course of Action by Baron Palle Rosenkrantz, and a German mystery, Anonymous Letters by Balduin Groller. While not my favorite, The Murder at the Duck Club wins the award for most unexpected investigator, November Joe, a Canadian backwoodsman. <br /> <br />The thirteen stories include: The Episode of the Mexican Seer and The Episode of the Diamond Links (Grant Allen), Five Hundred Carats (George Griffith), A Bracelet at Bruges (Arnold Bennett), The Absent-Minded Coterie (Robert Barr), The Problem of Cell 13 and The Superfluous Finger (Jacques Futrelle), Arsene Lupin in Prison and The Red Silk Scarf (Maurice Leblanc), A Sensible Course of Action (Baron Palle Rosenkrantz), Anonymous Letters (Balduin Groller), The Secret of the Magnifique (E. Phillips Oppenheim), and The Murder at the Duck Club (H. Hesketh Prichard). <br /> <br />This collection is the second of three companion volumes. Greene's first collection, titled The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes (Penguin Books, 1971), includes only detectives that have identifiable addresses in the London, not unlike No. 221b Baker Street. I have yet to read the third collection, The Further Rivals of Sherlock Holmes (Penguin Books, 1973).  <br /> <br />A rose by any name: For those searching for a copy of Cosmopolitan Crimes: Foreign Rivals of Sherlock Holmes it might help to know that it was also published under another title, More Rivals of Sherlock Holmes: Cosmopolitan Crimes, in 1971 in Great Britain.	2005-02-15
US	49618395	R1Z47SX2V3DYFO	0811720896	556457621	They Met at Gettysburg: a Step-by-step Retelling of the Battle with Maps, Photos, Firsthand Accounts	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Lee and Meade - Leadership Styles and Tactical Decisions	For the reader already familiar with a Gettysburg account by a recent historian like Shelby Foote, James McPherson, or Harry Pfanz, I recommend They Met at Gettysburg as a good choice for follow-up reading. Written in 1956 by General Edward J. Stackpole, this moderately sized book offers an interesting analysis of Lee's and Meade's contrasting leadership styles, and explores their tactical decisions. <br /> <br />Stackpole's interest is clearly revealed by chapter titles like Lee versus Meade - A Study in Leadership, Meade Takes Command, Lee Moves in as Meade Hesitates, The Opposing Commanders Review the Situation, and A Lost Opportunity to End the War. <br /> <br />The account of the battle itself is generally satisfactory, but it is not exceptional. Stackpole's concise reporting on Pickett's Charge lacks the emotional impact of Shelby Foote's remarkable narrative. And, there are surprising omissions. For example, while he fully credits General Warren, Meade's Chief Engineer, for plugging the gap when he discovered that Little Round Top had been left unoccupied, there is no reference to the role played by Joshua Chamberlain and the 20th Maine in the actual defense of this little rocky mount. <br /> <br />Stackpole is at his best when discussing communication problems, troop movements, supply problems, and other tactical issues. For example, in examining how J.E.B. Stuart's long absence impacted Lee's situation, he concludes that Lee's detailed, but somewhat unclear directions to Stuart, contributed to this debacle. Also, in Stackpole's view, Lee could have used other readily available cavalry forces to offset Stuart's absence. <br /> <br />Longstreet comes under considerable scrutiny and fares rather poorly, much more so than in the hands of Michael Shaara in The Killer Angels, or in Shelby Foote's account. Stackpole's portrayal of Meade is mixed. While recognizing Meade's difficult situation as a replacement general on the eve of a critical battle, Stackpole largely credits the key tactical decisions over the three days to Meade's capable corps commanders.   <br /> <br />On the plus side, They Met at Gettysburg is enhanced by numerous photos, portraits, and maps, but unfortunately some black and white illustrations are rather grainy. (Gettysburg 1863 by Carl Smith is a good source for higher quality illustrations.)  <br /> <br />I reviewed the third edition; the dust jacket indicates that my printing is the 40th Anniversary Edition.	2005-02-06
US	49618395	R1M7ZLCOZM3E1I	1855329530	925838415	Gettysburg 1863: High Tide of the Confederacy (Campaign Series)	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Useful Supplementary Text - Good Photos and Maps	Gettysburg 1863 - High Tide of the Confederacy, with 128 pages of text, tables, maps, and photos, serves as a useful reference when reading other works on this decisive battle. However, by itself, this text is not a replacement for the classic works on Gettysburg by historians like Shelby Foote, James M. McPherson, Bruce Catton, and Harry Pfanz. <br /> <br />A previous reviewer criticized the author, Carl Smith, regarding some factual details, and another suggested that certain Gettysburg National Park publications are better alternatives. While this criticism may be valid, I have found the extensive photos, paintings, portraits, and maps to be quite useful. The photo quality is quite good, better than I have found in many other books on Gettysburg. <br /> <br />Gettysburg 1863 - High Tide of the Confederacy was originally marketed by Osprey Publishing Ltd (UK) as part of their Osprey Military Series for wargaming enthusiasts. New editions are also available from Stackpole Books, Praeger Publishers, and Barnes and Noble Books. The price is quite variable. My Barnes and Noble hardcover edition was substantially discounted.	2005-02-05
US	49618395	RL1XPFS0WIXGM	0679601120	119887520	Stars in Their Courses: The Gettysburg Campaign, June-July 1863	Books	5	73	78	N	N	Superb Account of the Gettysburg Campaign	Shelby Foote's monumental, three volume history of the American Civil War is widely recognized as one of the great works of the twentieth century. However, its great length - roughly three thousand pages - is undoubtedly intimidating to many readers. Fortunately, this 1994 Modern Library edition, Stars in Their Courses, the Gettysburg Campaign, circumvents this difficulty.    Stars in Their Courses is the middle chapter in the middle volume of Shelby Foote's remarkable history.  This extract offers an easy way for a reader new to Shelby Foote to become acquainted with his masterpiece.     The editors of the Modern Library series should be commended for selecting this particular chapter. It is hard to imagine a better introduction to the Gettysburg Campaign. Stars in Their Courses is not only great history, it is great literature. Shelby Foote is an outstanding writer, one that happens, fortunately for us, to write history. In reviewing Foote's acclaimed historical narrative, one critic said, \\"It seems to me unlikely that it ever will be superseded.\\"    Remarkably, Stars in Their Courses is entirely self-contained. A reader not familiar with Shelby Foote's writing would not realize that this Modern Library edition was actually a single chapter drawn from a much larger work. The reader has no need to reference any other sources.    Stars in Their Courses would make an excellent gift for that friend or family member that enjoys good literature, but heretofore has not developed an enthusiasm for the Civil War. The Modern Library edition is attractively bound, and printed on acid-free paper.    Michael Shaara's Pulitzer Prize winning novel, The Killer Angels, would be a great companion gift to Stars in Their Courses. Shaara's focus is on specific participants in the three-day battle, especially Lee, Buford, Longstreet, Chamberlain, and Armistead. The Killer Angels was the basis for the epic movie, Gettysburg.	2005-02-05
US	49618395	R3D2HGPAO6G4P1	0140033114	943808881	The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes	Books	4	15	17	N	N	13 Early British Detective Short Stories - Good Selection	The rivals of Sherlock Holmes? What rivals? Few readers today realize that the eminent Sherlock Holmes had considerable competition in the late 1800s and early 1900s. Detective stories were amazing popular and magazines competed avidly for new works. Authors like Max Pemberton, Arthur Morrison, Guy Boothby, Baroness Orczy, and R. Austin Freeman experimented with this new genre, creating a wide range of amateur detectives, some that were passionately dedicated to justice, while others were little more than rogues. <br /> <br />Sir Hugh Greene, director-general of the BBC in the 1960s (and brother of Graham Greene), wrote the introduction and selected the thirteen early detective stories comprising The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes (Penguin Books, 1971).  <br /> <br />Greene chose stories in which the detectives have identifiable, or nearly identifiable addresses in the London of their day, thereby giving them something of the reality that surrounds No. 221b Baker Street. The best of the authors, Arthur Morrison, Clifford Ashdown, and R. Austin Freeman, compare quite favorably with Sir Arthur Conan Doyle and it is unfortunate that their works are so seldom encountered. Even the lesser stories in this collection make good reading, and should appeal to fans of Holmes and Watson. <br /> <br />The thirteen stories: The Ripening Rubies (Max Pemberton), The Case of Laker, Absconded and The Affair of the Avalanche Bicycle and Tyre Co. Ltd (Arthur Morrison), The Duchess of Wiltshire's Diamonds (Guy Boothby), The Assyrian Rejuvenator and The Submarine Boat (Clifford Ashdown), Madame Sara (L. Meade and R. Eustace), The Secret of the Fox Hunter (W. Le Queux), The Mysterious Death on the Underground Railway and The Woman in the Big Hat (Baroness Orczy), The Moabite Cipher (R. Austin Freeman), The Horse of the Invisible (W. Hope Hodgson) and The Game Played in the Dark (Ernest Bramah). <br /> <br />Caution:  Be careful when ordering Hugh Greene's book. A very different collection, Rivals of Sherlock Holmes (edited by Alan K. Russell, Castle Books, 1978), has nearly the same title. And, Russell's second volume, formally titled Rivals of Sherlock Holmes Two (1979), is even more confusing as the modified title on the dust jacket is The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes 2.	2005-02-04
US	49618395	RZDPLN7RENSTC	0198132298	359570297	The Devil Is an Ass: And Other Plays (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Excellent Collection of Ben Jonson's Lesser Known Plays	This excellent Oxford World's Classics collection is unusual in that none of these plays by Ben Jonson were well-received when first performed, and furthermore, have seldom been staged until recent years. Nonetheless, all four plays - Poetaster, Sejanus his Fall, The Devil is an Ass, and The New Inn - make good reading.  <br /> <br />I especially recommend these plays to readers already familiar with Jonson's better known works like Volpone, The Alchemist, Epicene, and Bartholomew Fair. Reading Jonson can require effort and this Oxford World's Classics edition is to be highly commended for the excellent introduction, explanatory notes, and glossary by Margaret Jane Kidnie. <br /> <br />Poetaster: Among his earliest plays, Poetaster was first staged in 1601, the same year as Hamlet. (A poetaster is a trivial rhymester, a writer of doggerel, at best an inferior poet.) Although Poetaster is primarily about the relationship of the Roman poets Ovid, Virgil, and Horace with governmental authority, several scenes are devoted to ridiculing two mean-spirited, envious, plagiaristic poets, Crispinus and Demetrius. Despite the setting in ancient Rome, the audience quickly recognized that these two inept poets were caricatures of Jonson's bitter rivals, John Marston and Thomas Dekker. <br /> <br />Sejanus his Fall:  Previously, Jonson had focused on satirical comedies; writing a historical tragedy was quite a change. Unfortunately, despite a cast that included Richard Burbage and William Shakespeare (perhaps, playing the lascivious Tiberius), Sejanus his Fall was a failure. To make matters worse, despite Jonson's effort to carefully document the historical accuracy of his play, he was summoned by the Privy Council to defend himself against charges of sedition and slander. Apparently, in recent performances Sejanus has fared much better. While I enjoyed reading Sejanus, Jonson may have overly constrained his artistic freedom by his insistence to adhere rigidly to historical accounts. <br /> <br />The Devil is an Ass: This mildly satirical play, like Bartholomew Fair, abounds with unscrupulous characters, con men, and gullible dupes. Jonson successfully interweaves several subplots involving deceit and trickery, creating an enjoyable comedy. The play begins as a lesser devil, named Pug, requests an opportunity to visit London to entrap innocents, thereby ensuring their doom. Satan is skeptical. He considers modern 1616 London to be more corrupt and dissolute than Hell itself. Satan reluctantly allows Pug to proceed. <br /> <br />The New Inn (or, The Light Heart): Jonson's final play was notably unsuccessful, being cancelled after a single night. Contrastingly, a modern production by the Royal Shakespeare Company received much acclaim. The editor, Margaret Jane Kidnie, urges the reader to read the play before reading Jonson's introductory summary, titled the Argument, which gives away the ending. It is probably prudent also to skip the short description of the play's characters. Act Five is best as a surprise.	2005-01-29
US	49618395	R2NAMGMUEPW4A6	0486203883	773651092	The Best Dr. Thorndyke Detective Stories (Dover Edition)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Exceedingly Good Stories - Dr. Thorndyke Rivals Holmes	I highly recommend this Dover reprint, The Best Dr. Thorndyke Detective Stories by R. Austin Freeman. The stories of Dr. Thorndyke, a medical doctor and forensic scientist, were published contemporaneously with those of Sherlock Holmes.  I am surprised and puzzled that Dr. Thorndyke's mysteries have remained hidden in the shadow of Sherlock Holmes for all these years. These stories were really quite good. <br /> <br />R. Austin Freeman was an amazingly innovative author, credited as the father of the scientific detective story and also, the inventor of the inverted detective story. Amazingly, Freeman built every device and tested every chemical procedure used by Dr. Thorndyke to ensure their authenticity.  In many cases his techniques were subsequently emulated by early police laboratories.  <br /> <br />The inverted mystery, later made famous by the popular Columbo TV series, allows the reader to witness the careful planning and execution of what appears to be a perfect murder, before the detective even arrives on the scene. Dr. Thorndyke, like Columbo many years later, tugs at loose threads, eventually unraveling the so-called perfect murder. <br /> <br />The first three stories - The Case of Oscar Brodski, A Case of Premeditation, and The Echo of a Mutiny - are exceptional examples of inverted mysteries. Not only did Freeman develop this new genre, his inverted detective stories are amazingly good tales that have seldom been matched by later authors. <br /> <br />The Mandarin's Pearl, The Blue Sequin, The Moabite Cipher, and The Aluminium Dagger are more conventional stories, but ones with more emphasis on forensic techniques than found in Watson's accounts of Sherlock Holmes. The final story, 31 New Inn, is substantially longer than the others and involves two intertwined mysteries.  It is a remarkably good story. <br /> <br />Freeman as Clifford Ashdown: Earlier in his writing career, R. Austin Freeman, using the pseudonym Clifford Ashdown, collaborated with aDr. James Pitcairn in creating a series of stories involving a less-than-honest private investigator, Romney Pringle.  I found two Pringle stories in an anthology titled The Rivals of Sherlock Holmes (edited by Hugh Greene).	2005-01-23
US	49618395	RZ4A52BYFTBWX	0880011858	705760148	Italian Backgrounds (Ecco travels)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Thoughtful, Fascinating Travels Essays - Italy, 1901-1904	Italian Backgrounds is comprised of nine, loosely coupled travel essays written by Edith Wharton over a four year period (1901-1904).  Few readers are likely to possess her remarkable knowledge of Italian paintings, murals, frescoes, sculpture, and architecture, and in the hands of a lesser writer, these essays might easily have become tedious and overly detailed.  Wharton's essays achieve a singular balance between scholarly analysis and captivating memoir.    Italian Backgrounds begins not in Italy, but at a small alpine posting-inn in Switzerland close to the Italian border.  She contrasts a  picturesque \\"toy chalet, with its air of self-conscious neatness\\" with the untidiness of  nearby Italian villages.  Despite this negative comparison, with little effort Wharton convinces us that we must take the dusty, windy road downward into that land where church steeples become campanili, liberated vines wrap themselves around mulberry trees, and far off across the hot plains domes and spires, painted walls, and sculptured alters await us.    Italian Backgrounds is not a conventional travel book.  Edith Wharton's discursive essays are not arranged geographically, nor chronologically. The chapters could be read in any sequence with little loss of continuity. They might compare favorably with an extensive mural, one that draws your attention first here, then there, then elsewhere.    Despite the passage of 100 years, Italian Backgrounds should be mandatory reading to anyone planning to visit Italy, especially those with aspirations to write travel essays. Likewise, Italian Backgrounds would be ideal supplementary reading for a general art appreciation class, as well as targeted reading for art and history majors.    The chapters are titled An Alpine Posting-Inn, A Midsummer Week's Dream, The Sanctuaries of the Pennine Alps, What the Hermits Saw, A Tuscan Shrine, Sub Umbra Liliorum, March in Italy, Picturesque Milan, and Italian Backgrounds.    Ecco Travels specializes in re-publishing rare and hard-to-obtain travel writings by exceptional authors like Henry James, Charles Dickens, Andre Gide, Freya Stark, Augustus Hare, Aldous Huxley, V. S. Pritchett, Evelyn Waugh, and Edith Wharton.	2005-01-23
US	49618395	RRNR0JQE1GFIA	0393900223	46993588	The Malcontent (New Mermaid Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Reading - Betrayals and Unexpected Twists	In 1601 John Marston, William Shakespeare, Ben Jonson, and George Chapman were described as \\"the best and chiefest of our modern writers\\".  Today, only English majors are likely to be acquainted with John Marston's works. Even his most popular play, The Malcontent (1604), is seldom encountered. <br /> <br />The Malcontent is often categorized as a revenge play, although it is quite unlike Thomas Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy, Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus, or The Revenger's Tragedy (uncertain authorship).  Even though deceit, betrayal, disguises, and attempted murders are essential elements of the plot, The Malcontent lacks the brutality that characterizes other Elizabethan and Jacobean revenge plays. Unexpectedly, as the play develops, Malevole, the disguised Duke of Genoa, shows some willingness to forgive others for their past injustices. The recovery and restoration of character becomes more important than revenge. <br /> <br />The Malcontent makes good reading. Cascading betrayals and unexpected twists maintained my interest throughout all five acts. Unlike many contemporaneous plays, the plot is not complicated by extraneous subplots.  The action, although sometimes convoluted, is all tightly connected.  All in all, I found the The Malcontent to be easier reading than most Elizabethan and Jacobean plays. <br /> <br />Induction: Act I is preceded by an Induction by John Webster, a six page witty discussion among five of the Globe Theatre actors (including Richard Burbage) regarding the author's intentions and recent modifications to the play itself. Apparently, The Malcontent had been previously staged by a rival theatre, the Children of the Queen's Revels at Blackfriars. While of interest to scholars in unraveling the early history of Marston's play, this induction is not germane to the plot itself. <br /> <br />Staging: In the introduction Bernard Harris, the editor of the New Mermaids edition, describes The Malcontent as \\"a theatrically ambitious and bewilderingly active play, rich in details of staging.\\"  Scenes require attendants, pages, lights, ladies, processions, music, dancing, costumes, jewelry, feasts, and even the devising of a masque.	2005-01-23
US	49618395	R1YLF32VGDGLDQ	1582790477	557004951	The Three Musketeers - Trident Press Imprint of 1879 Edition (Signature Classics Series)	Books	5	51	55	N	N	150 Years Later and Still Just As Popular	Long lines wait impatiently outside book shops for the latest issue of the magazine Le Siecle. On the streets and in cafes Parisians talked excitedly about each new installment of the thrilling adventure story, The Three Musketeers. (Like many novels written in the mid-1800s, Dumas' novel was serialized in a magazine before being published as a book.)<br /><br />The public quickly recognized that a new literary genre had appeared - a fast paced, action story based upon a historical event. Previous historical fiction now seemed slow, wordy, and even archaic.<br /><br />What is even more surprising is that 150 years later The Three Musketeers remains widely popular, both in print and on screen. Exciting duels, close escapes, political intrigues, and chivalrous romance still capture the imagination of today's readers.<br /><br />Today's public undoubtedly remembers more about French history - at least history according to Alexandre Dumas - from The Three Musketeers, and its sequels, than from high school and university classes.  Athos, Porthos, and Aramis - and their friend D'Artagnan, the irrepressible, courageous, handsome young Gascon who aspires to become a Musketeer himself - are modern icons.  Similarly, Dumas' portrayal of King Louis XIII, Queen Anne of Austria, and Cardinal Richelieu are decidedly more interesting than the dry, factual historical characters found in textbooks.<br /><br />And it impossible to forget the enchanting, notorious, and dangerous Milady de Winter, one of the more dramatic and memorable character created by any author. I am somewhat  disappointed that Milady is fictional.<br /><br />Choices: There are several good translations of Three Musketeers, including paperbacks like the Bantam Classic and Signet Classic editions. The slightly more expensive Oxford World's Classics edition is also quite good, and it offers an extended introduction and other supplementary material. Trident Press offers an attractive, deluxe gift edition profusely illustrated with the original ink drawings by Maurice Leloir.  This version is a reprint of an edition first published by Thomas Y. Crowell and Company in Boston in 1879.<br /><br />Advice: I strongly caution you to avoid the abridged editions. The Three Musketeers is indeed a lengthy novel, but it is one that warrants reading in its entirety, especially if you might someday read one of its sequels, like Twenty Years After or The Man in the Iron Mask.profusely illustrated with the original ink drawings by Maurice Leloir.  This version is a reprint of an edition first published by Thomas Y. Crowell and Company in Boston in 1879.  <br /> <br />Advice: I strongly caution you to avoid the abridged editions. The Three Musketeers is indeed a lengthy novel, but it is one that warrants reading in its entirety, especially if you might someday read one of its sequels, like Twenty Years After or The Man in the Iron Mask.	2005-01-23
US	49618395	RHKGN0QFTLGNI	0393900606	208180954	Revenger's Tragedy (New Mermaid Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Perhaps Undecided Authorship, but Certainly Good Drama	Brian Gibbons, editor of the New Mermaids second edition (1991), describes The Revenger's Tragedy (1607) as a minor masterpiece. Judged against contemporaneous revenge plays like Hamlet and King Lear (and even Titus Andronicus), the term 'minor' certainly does not imply inferior. Minor or not, I agree with the four previous reviewers: The Revenger's Tragedy deserves five stars. Also, it is much easier reading than most Elizabethan and Jacobean plays.<br /><br />Despite its title, The Revenger's Tragedy is no more bloody than Thomas Kyd's The Spanish Tragedy (fifteen years earlier) and it is certainly not as insanely gruesome and brutal as Shakespeare's Titus Andronicus (1594).  No dismemberments and no cannibalism. Bloody, yes. But not excessively so.<br /><br />Nonetheless, we learn of a murder, a rape leading to a suicide, and yet another aggressive seduction (or rape, if need be) that is in the planning stage. So ends Act 1. Revenge and mayhem follow.<br /><br />The plot is not unduly complex. Vindice desires revenge for the poisoning death of his betrothed, Gloriana, by the lustful, aging Duke. Vindice also indirectly blames the Duke for his father's death, though \\"he died of discontent, the nobleman's consumption\\". Vindice is perhaps obsessive; he has retained Gloriana's skull and sometimes speaks directly to her.<br /><br />In disguise he provokes discord between his enemies and leads them to plot against each other. (This ruse reminds me of Malevole's subterfuge in John Marston's play, The Malcontent.) A poisoned skull, a mistaken execution, and a murderous banquet highlight the later acts. The play concludes with an ironic twist, possibly added as a moral lesson, or simply to surprise the audience.<br /><br />Hats off to either Cyril Tourneur or Thomas Middleton, or whoever may have authored this fascinating revenge play.<br /><br />Update July, 2007:  I recently encountered reference to this lesser known play in a murder mystery. Cecil Day-Lewis, Poet Laureate from 1968 until his death in 1972, wrote sophisticated mysteries under the pseudonym Nicholas Blake from the mid-1930s to the early 1960s. Thou Shell of Death (1936) is a revenge murder patterned on The Revenger's Tragedy. In the first scene Vindice speaking to the skull of his dead mistress says: \\"My study's ornament, thou shell of death, Once the bright face of my betrothed lady ....\\"	2004-12-24
US	49618395	R3NI4YPHLR2MYW	B0006AWCRI	798498593	How does a poem mean?	Books	5	58	59	N	N	Intriguing Introduction to Poetic Structure and Meaning	John Ciardi's How Does a Poem Mean? is an intriguing, unorthodox, and surprisingly effective introduction to poetry. He argues that the question: \\"What Does a Poem Mean?\\" is too often a self-destroying approach that results in paraphrasing and misses the point of poetry. A poem is to be experienced, not simply interpreted. Unlike prose, a poem is primarily a performance.    How does a poem build itself into a form out of images, ideas, and rhythms? How do these elements become the meaning?  How are they inseparable from the meaning? John Ciardi's remarkable textbook answers these questions, makes enjoyable reading, and is a five star introduction to poetry.    This text, published by Houghton Mifflin, was adopted by many colleges in the 1960s and 1970s. Inexpensive, used, soft cover copies are still fairly easy to find.    The eight chapters are titled How Does a Poem Mean?, A Burble Through the Tulgey Wood, By Rippling Pools, The Words of Poetry, The Sympathetic Contract, The Image and the Poem, The Poem in Motion, and The Poem in Countermotion.    I encountered many familiar poems as well as others new to me. Among the latter, I list several to illustrate the wide range of Ciardi's selections (and to remind me to return to these poets):  The Listeners (Walter De la Mare),  Mr. Flood's Party (Edwin Arlington Robinson), The Death of a Hired Hand (Robert Frost), Burning Love Letters (Howard Moss), Snake (D. H. Lawrence), Blue Girls (John Crowe Ransom), Medusa (Louise Bogan), A Subterranean City (Thomas Lovell Beddoes), and What the Sonnet Is (Eugene Lee Hamilton).    Also, I especially enjoyed three closely related poems: Departmental (Frost), Heaven (Rupert Brooke), and A Deep Discussion (Richard Moore).    Like most collections of poetry, How Does a Poem Mean? is best enjoyed if read in a leisurely fashion over several months. The overall time commitment may be substantial, but John Ciardi's fascinating text will reward your efforts. Take your time. Enjoy yourself.Remember, poetry is to be experienced, not simply analyzed. Cheers.	2004-12-23
US	49618395	R154G81D28U1DI	0060974370	389028132	Calamity Town	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Atypical - But Good Ellery Queen Mystery	Ellery Queen, hoping for anonymity and some quiet time for writing, has rented a house in Wrightsville under the name Ellery Smith. The town, Wrightsville, appears ideal - attractive homes, friendly people, and little crime. The writer Ellery Smith is quickly embraced by the community, especially by the founding family of Wrightsville. All is tranquil, that is, until a series of arsenic poisonings earns Wrightsville the name Calamity Town.    Calamity Town (1942) falls chronologically in the middle phase of the Ellery Queen canon and differs considerably from his earlier mysteries. The setting is far from New York City, although the exact location of Wrightsville remains unclear. Several chapters are devoted to an extended courtroom scene that, I believe, is unique to this EQ story. Ellery himself even takes the stand.     Ellery's somewhat one-dimensional character is now more fully developed, more complex, more realistic. Unexpectedly, Ellery even becomes romantically involved with an attractive, quick witted, and independent young woman.     Most noticeably, the characters and the plot, possibly because the setting is a typical small town, are more conventional than is found in Ellery Queen's more imaginative earlier stories such as The Greek Coffin Mystery, The Egyptian Cross Mystery, and The Siamese Twin Mystery.  It is not hard to imagine this story, repackaged somewhat, transformed into a British manor house mystery.    This atypical Ellery Queen mystery makes good reading. Calamity Town has often been reprinted and should not be difficult to locate.	2004-12-23
US	49618395	R1BYVJMA5ZTKWQ	0060974397	55925300	The Origin of Evil (HarperPerennial reprint 1992)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Layered, Complex, Satisfying Deductive Mystery - Quite Good	It is 1951 and Hollywood is reeling from the advent of television. Ellery Queen, visiting from New York City, has isolated himself in a rented home overlooking Los Angeles in hopes of quietly completing his latest mystery story. His writing is interrupted, however, by an unannounced visit from a young woman convinced that her father's heart attack at the sight of a dead dog was actually premeditated murder. This third Hollywood mystery reveals a growing list of surrealistic clues, exemplified by the dead dog, hundreds of dead frogs, a poisoned sandwich, and a mutilated leather bound book of Aristophanes. The solution within a solution offered by Ellery is quite ingenious. <br /> <br />The Origin of Evil is unusual in its short topical digressions on the threat of nuclear war, the call-up of troops for the Korean UN Police Action, and Hollywood's exaggerated concern with television. The characters include, among others, a mean spirited business man confined to a wheel chair; his sultry, voluptuous wife Delia; the chameleon-like man servant Alfred Wallace; the pretty, young daughter, Laurel, convinced of her father's murder; and Crowe Macgowan, an eccentric, muscular young man emulating Tarzan in the local trees. Unlike his experience on his two previous visits to Hollywood, this time Ellery's assistance is readily accepted by a detective in the Los Angeles Police Department. <br /> <br />The Origin of Evil has often been reprinted and should not be difficult to locate. My copy is a 1992 reprint edition by Harper Perennial.  You might look for inexpensive paperback editions (1970s and 1980s) from either Ballantine Books, Signet Classics, or the Signet Double Mystery series. <br /> <br />Another option: The Devil to Pay (1937), The Four of Hearts (1938), and The Origin of Evil (1951) are unique Ellery Queen mysteries in that the setting is Hollywood. Four Walls Eight Windows published these three mysteries in 2000 under the title The Hollywood Murders.	2004-12-23
US	49618395	RQKLTAMWQ7M13	0460879367	995259345	"A Warning to the Curious" and Other Stories by M.R. James (Everyman Short Story Collection)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Warning to the Curious Buyer and other comments	Like the works of other writers of popular short stories, the classic horror stories of M. R. James have been published in many overlapping collections. Similar titles often refer to very different collections and care must be taken if you are searching for specific tales.    The short story with the title - A Warning to the Curious - was first published in 1925. The following year M. R. James published this story, and seven more tales, under the same title, A Warning to the Curious. Furthermore, the book that I am reviewing - A Warning to the Curious and Other Stories (Phoenix Publishing, 1998) - includes not eight, but sixteen stories by M. R. James.    The sixteen stories include Canon Alberic's Scrap-book, Lost Hearts, The Mezzotint, The Ash-tree, Number 13, Count Magnus, The Treasure of Abbott Thomas, Casting the Runes, Mr. Humphrey and His Inheritance, The Residence at Whitminster, The Story of a Disappearance and an Appearance, A Neighbor's Landmark, The Uncommon Prayer-Book, A View from a Hill, Wailing Wall, and, of course, A Warning to the Curious.    All these stories are quite good and many are capable of fostering disturbing dreams. The \\"evil that dieth not, but lieth in wait\\" is a common theme. Most readers quickly conclude that this evil that dieth not is best left undisturbed. The curious ones, those seekers of forgotten lore, often discover that knowledge comes at a high price.    For the reader new to M. R. James, I suggest that you first purchase an inexpensive collection, such as either this Phoenix edition or the Dover reprint edition titled Ghost Stories of an Antiquary (but not both as the Phoenix edition contains all but one of the stories in the Dover edition). Once you are familiar with M. R. James, you will probably want to invest in a more complete, more expensive edition of his works.	2004-12-22
US	49618395	R33ZKY4P9B0ENR	0486251217	652475340	The Man Who Was Thursday	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Witty, Whimsical, Espionage Story - An Allegorical Puzzle	The Man Who Was Thursday could have only been written by G. K. Chesterton, a remarkably versatile writer, essayist, and poet whose works defy categorization. Defoe created Friday; Chesterton gives us all seven days as well as philosophical policemen on the trail of anarchists. The plot verges on the bizarre, but somehow Chesterton manages to adroitly balance philosophy, suspense, and whimsy. My admiration and respect for the vivid imagination of Chesterton increases each time I return to this delightful book.<br /><br />The Man Who Was Thursday is best enjoyed as a surprise.  Avoid learning too much before your first reading. Afterwards, you undoubtedly will return to the reviews, simply to understand how others interpreted Chesterton's uniquely fascinating work.<br /><br />The Man Who Was Thursday is so unexpected, so different, that I am convinced that most readers are compelled to share their reading experience with others. There are so many layers to the story, and so many unanswered questions. (Perhaps, this explains why this largely unfamiliar book has so many, many reviews.)  I look forward to your own analysis of Chesterton's remarkable story. Cheers.	2004-12-05
US	49618395	R3SC1Q38U6VR78	0812050916	215959151	The Way of the World (Barron's Educational Series)	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Classic Comedy of Manners - Restoration Period	The first three acts of William Congreve's play, The Way of the World (1700), involve little action. The scenes focus on introducing and contrasting characters, highlighting witty dialogue, and slowly revealing details of prior events through casual references. Polite, formalized language disguises selfish motives, rivalries, deceit, and deviousness.    Selfish motives, deciet, and other negative attributes may not seem a proper basis for comedy, and yet The Way of the World warrants four stars. For comparison purposes I strongly recommend reading two other Restoration period comedies: Wycherley's The Country Wife (1675) and Etherege's The Man of Mode (1676). All three plays share a cynical view of the sanctity of marriage and portray a self-centered London society obsessed with extramarital affairs.    The action (certain steps to overcome obstacles to a marriage) in The Way of the World does not occur until the later acts. The marriage between Mirabell and Millamant proceeds only after both are assured that their financial situation will not be jeopardized. Love is secondary. Similarly, the unpleasant situation of Mrs. Fainall - a marriage without any pretence of love - remains unchanged.    While humor may be somewhat sparse in the earlier acts, the tempo clearly picks up in acts four and five. The plot becomes extremely fluid when Mirabell's inventive fraud unravels, and his rival, Mr. Fainall, gains the upper hand. However, the last act offers a delightful twist that puts things right. (Puts things right might be an overstatement given that the play's key characters are somewhat lacking in scruples.)    Although The Way of the World is only occasionally staged today, this play is often assigned reading. My favorite edition is Barron's Educational Series (1958) as it provides plentiful stage directions. In particular, indications of expression - essentially guidance to actors on the proper delivery of the dialogue - are inserted as the dialogue switches from onecharacter to another. Examples include: \\"somewhat sourly recollecting the rebuff of the previous evening\\", \\"using frankness as a bait to draw equal frankness from her companion\\", and \\"too preoccupied to pay serious attention\\". The Barron's edition also has a lengthy introduction by Vincent Hopper and Gerald Lahey, a 5-page note on staging by George Hersey, and illustrations by Fritz Kredel.     A Crofts Classic edition (published 1951, reprinted 1985) provides a useful section titled The Argument of the Play, in which the editor, Henry T. E. Perry, summarizes events that occurred prior to the beginning of the play. (Remember that the dialogue in the early acts slowly - and often obliquely - reveals details of prior events through casual references.) Perry also discusses how William Congreve adroitly used dialogue to reveal much about the personalities of his characters.    The Way of the World can also be found in the Norton Critical Edition (1973) titled Restoration and Eighteenth-Century Comedy. The extensive appendix includes an 80-page section titled Criticism From Lamb to the Present; two articles directly address Congreve's play: The Way of the World by Norman Holland and Form and Wit in The Way of the World by Martin Price.	2004-11-28
US	49618395	R2X5LT0VJE00U9	1568581734	966235396	The Hollywood Murders: Three Mysteries: The Devil to Pay, The Four of Hearts, The Origin of Evil	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Hollywood from Ellery Queen's Perspective	The Devil to Pay (1937), The Four of Hearts (1938), and The Origin of Evil (1951) roughly fall in Ellery Queen's middle period and are unique in that the setting is Hollywood.  Four Walls Eight Windows published these three mysteries in 2000 under the title The Hollywood Murders.    Ellery's deductions are dazzling as usual, despite that Ellery himself sometimes seems out of place, even stranded, in the unorthodox milieu of Hollywood.  Ellery encounters classic Hollywood stereotypes from movie stars to film producers to gossip columnists. The plots offer humor, some snappy dialogue, and a few extravagant Hollywood effects (e.g., a murderous pilot commandeers a small plane).  I commend Four Walls Eight Windows for printing this collection.     The Devil to Pay (1937): Ellery Queen has been persuaded to rush to Hollywood to assist in writing a major production only to find that the producer is unavailable. Ellery becomes increasingly frustrated as he waits and waits for his first assignment. Fortuitously, he becomes involved in solving a bizarre murder of a hard-hearted, unethical financier. The murder weapon is an Italian dueling sword of the seventeenth century; its tip is coated with molasses and cyanide.     Ellery's remarkable reputation on the eastern seaboard is of little value in Los Angeles. Ejected from a crime scene, he subsequently masquerades as Hilary \\"Scoop\\" King, a colorful investigative reporter, to gain access to crime sites and confidential information. While somewhat farcical, this device allows the story to proceed.     The Four of Hearts (1938): In this sequel Ellery finally meets the young Jacques Butcher, colloquially known as Boy Wonder, executive vice-president of production at Magna Studios, and Ellery begins his work on a screen play. Unfortunately, an elaborate publicity stunt for the new production is derailed by a double murder. While the portrayal of the Hollywood film industry may not be entirely accurate, the plot is entertaining.The Origin of Evil (1951): Thirteen years have elapsed and Ellery returns to a Hollywood that is reeling from the advent of television. However, as Ellery observes, Hollywood's post-mortem may be premature. This third Hollywood mystery reveals a growing list of surrealistic clues, including a dead dog, dead frogs, a poisoned sandwich, and a mutilated leather bound book of Aristophanes. The solution within a solution offered by Ellery is quite ingenious.    If you cannot find a copy of The Hollywood Murders, you might look for paperback editions from the 1970s and 1980s published by Ballantine Books, Signet Classics, and the Signet Double Mystery series. They are all inexpensive. The Origin of Evil is easiest to locate - look for a 1992 reprint edition by Harper Perennial.	2004-11-20
US	49618395	R3LD42IEKU2I7V	0486415929	81041618	The Bourgeois Gentleman (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	One of Moliere's Most Popular Plays - Delightful Comedy	In seventeenth century class-conscious France a tradesman, even one that had achieved financial success, was not considered a gentleman. The Bourgeois Gentleman (1670), sometimes titled The Would-Be Gentleman, is a comedic tale of a wealthy tradesman, Monsieur Jourdain, that aspires to be a gentleman.  His motivation is to gain favor with a beautiful marchioness; his efforts are complicated by the fact that he is already married. <br /> <br />Jourdain hires tutors for singing, dancing, fencing, and even philosophy and also engages a private tailor to dress him fashionably. They all have great fun with the vain, gullible Jourdain, easily persuading him to behave in an outrageously, ridiculous manner. <br /> <br />The fast moving plot and snappy dialogue make good reading, but I strongly suspect that The Bourgeois Gentleman is much better in performance than in print. The absurd, hilarious situations must have the audience continuously laughing. <br /> <br />The Bourgeois Gentleman is available in an inexpensive Dover Thrift Edition. Also, virtually all collections of Moliere's plays include this delightful comedy. <br /> <br />An Unexpected Literary Connection: The Bourgeois Gentleman was still quite popular nearly two hundred years later when Alexander Dumas was writing his swashbuckling adventure stories. Humorously, Dumas utilized Moliere as a minor character in an early chapter of The Man in the Iron Mask. A farcical situation, one in which Moliere is mistaken to be an assistant to King Louis XIV's tailor, is prefaced by Dumas with the comment \\"Where Probably Moliere Formed His First Idea of The Bourgeois Gentilhomme\\".	2004-11-14
US	49618395	R2OMVMI5YPRCSA	0712661522	831770230	Poems for All Purposes	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Good Introduction to the Poetry of G. K. Chesterton	Poems For All Purposes offers an entertaining collection of G. K. Chesterton's surprisingly varied poetry - playful poetry, political satire, a superb epic ballad, poetic translations, and a wide range of religious and moralistic poems. A few poems refer to events and persons now unfamiliar; a few others may seem outdated. However, most of Chesterton's poetry will be readily enjoyed by today's audience. <br /> <br />Chesterton wrote almost entirely in rhyme, a natural rhyme that does not attract undue attention to itself. There is a happiness and genuine friendliness in much of his poetry that adds pleasure to the reading. <br /> <br />I laughed with The Logical Vegetarian, an incisive argument that wine, sherry, and port are so very, very, vegetarian. In four short verses The Donkey ranges from nightmare and sadness and pity to a sudden recognition of the miraculous nature of life. Despite its title, A Ballade of Suicide is  hopeful and reassuring: \\"I think I will not hang myself today\\" is its memorable refrain. The Oneness of the Philosopher with Nature is enjoyable nonsense poetry.  <br /> <br />After reading Chesterton's lengthy epic, The Ballad of the White Horse (1911), I purchased a separate, hard bound copy from Ignatius Press. It is a superb ballad. King Alfred, with little expectation of victory, continued to struggle against the invading Danes, the fearless pagan Viking warriors that overwhelmed Europe. In the darkest hours of WWII as Britain fought alone against the pagan Nazis threatening all Europe, and national survival was again uncertain. The only certainty - that the struggle must not be abandoned - was best expressed by Chesterton's lines and often quoted by the British press: <br />  <br />I tell you naught for your comfort,  <br />Yea, naught for your desire,  <br />Save that the sky grows darker yet <br />And the sea rises higher. <br /> <br />Another historical poem, Lepanto, describes what some call the last Crusade. Christian nations under the heroic Don John of Austria rally to repel the Turkish sultan's excursions across the Adriatic and up the capes of Italy. Lepanto provided Chesterton the opportunity to meld together history, legend, and religious thought. It is factual that Miguel De Cervantes fought the Turks under Don John. It is Chesterton's poetic invention that Cervantes first imagined his Don Quixote at that time. <br /> <br />Eternities, A Christmas Carol, The Wise Men, and The House of Christmas are all good examples of Chesterton's inspirational poetry. <br /> <br />The introduction and footnotes compiled by Stephen Medcalf are especially helpful to readers, like myself, that are new to G. K. Chesterton's wide ranging poetry.  <br /> <br />Poems For All Purposes is not easy to locate. If you are unsuccessful, don't give up. Look elsewhere for other collections of Chesterton's poetry. I am quite certain that you won't be disappointed.	2004-11-07
US	49618395	R3FQMINDKSTO0Y	1858910803	334382241	Humorous Tales	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enhanced by Splendid Ink Drawings by Reginald Cleaver	I was quite fortunate to locate a new edition of Humorous Tales from Rudyard Kipling; it was first published in 1931 by Macmillan. My 1993 edition from Studio Editions (London) is enhanced by high quality ink illustrations by Reginald Cleaver.<br /><br />Like many readers, I have on occasion read the more popular stories by Kipling. I had known, of course, that Kipling was prolific writer, had been immensely popular in the early twentieth century, and was awarded the Nobel Prize for Literature. I also knew that his writings were now viewed as outdated. I made little effort to read Kipling.  What a mistake!<br /><br />This rather extensive compilation, some 500 pages of Kipling's more humorous tales, has completely changed my perspective.  I thoroughly enjoyed these stories, and undoubtedly, in a year or two, I will reread this entire collection.<br /><br />I cannot recall a single story that I would not readily read again. Some stories made extensive used of various dialects and did require effort, but this effort was more than repaid.  I had not previously encountered even one of these thirty remarkable entries - either prose or poetry. This fact clearly demonstrates both my limited familiarity with Rudyard Kipling as well as the wealth of his works that exist.	2004-10-30
US	49618395	RIS6W06N0KVJC	0451123417	99798242	The Chinese Orange Mystery	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Two Good Mysteries - One With and One Without Ellery Queen	This Signet Double Mystery edition (June, 1983) reprints two earlier books written under the pseudonym Ellery Queen.    The Chinese Orange Mystery (1934) is the eighth novel in the Ellery Queen canon, that is, those stories that involve Ellery Queen the sleuth, and are jointly written by the cousins Frederic Dannay and Manfred B. Lee (using the pseudonym Ellery Queen).  Contrastingly, the second story, Wife or Death (1963), was penned by a ghostwriter,  Richard Deming, authorized to use the pseudonym Ellery Queen. The key point is that Wife or Death does not involve the character Ellery Queen.     The Chinese Orange Mystery (1934):  This challenging, locked room murder has a bizarre element: the victim's clothes were removed and inexplicitly the body was then redressed backwards. Likewise, the paintings in the room were hung upside down and the furniture was resituated in reverse positions. I had little success in unraveling the mystery. Ellery's deductions were brilliant.    Wife or Death (1963):  Although Ellery is not present in this story, Wife or Death is surprisingly good. The well-paced plot is realistic and the ending was a surprise. The explanation was both detailed and convincing, suggesting perhaps that Dannay and Lee played a role in developing the plot structure.     Jim Denton, owner, publisher, and editor of the Ridgemore Clarion, is the prime suspect in the disappearance of his promiscuous wife.  Jim has long been aware of his wife's infidelity, but he remained indecisive, avoiding a direct confrontation with Angel. When she goes missing, Jim is questioned by the police and is soon judged guilty by the town's rumor mill.  The author, Richard Deming, realistically depicts Jim's changing relationship with the local community. In general, the character development is more extensive than found in most Ellery Queen (the sleuth) stories.    Some advice about the Signet Double Mystery Editions:  After Dannay and Lee jointly created the first 25 or so Ellerymysteries, they confused matters by contracting ghostwriters to create additional stories under the pseudonym Ellery Queen (and occasionally, Barnaby Ross).  Notably, none of these additional mysteries involved either Ellery or his father, Inspector Richard Queen. In parallel, Dannay and Lee (as Ellery Queen) continued to write the traditional Ellery Queen stories.     In the late 1970s Signet began packaging two novels (reprints) penned by Ellery Queen in a single paperback as Signet Double Mysteries with the catchy slogan: 2 Full Novels for Only $1.95. Sometimes both stories do involve the sleuth Ellery Queen; however, often one, or even both, of the stories were ones created by ghostwriters and Ellery is absent.    Although these Signet Double Mysteries are now becoming a bit yellowed and worn, they are still easy to find and are usually inexpensive. But look carefully, especially if you are only looking for the stories in the Ellery Queen canon.	2004-10-30
US	49618395	R1EUP89ILWQT9H	0397000650	759634262	Parnassus on Wheels	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A Truly Enjoyable Book - Deserves Great Praise	Christopher Morley on Christopher Morley: \\"His early writing, which was (though not intentionally) imitative and immature, was received with absurd overpraise.\\" Morley's self evaluation was overly critical. Now, nearly 90 years later, Morley's early works, especially Parnassus on Wheels (1917) and its sequel, The Haunted Bookshop (1919), are still widely praised.    Roger Mifflin, the exuberant, irrepressible, itinerant book seller, is one of the most beloved characters of twentieth century fiction. But the central character in Parnassus on Wheels is really Helen McGill, the pragmatic and hardworking sister of the much admired writer, Andrew McGill.  Having baked some 6,000 loaves of bread for her brother in the last fifteen years, Helen was primed for change. When Roger Mifflin placed his horse-drawn library, Parnassus, for sale at $400, Helen, age 39, withdrew her savings and began the adventure of her life. As a neighbor exclaimed, \\"Think of Parnassus turned suffrage!\\"    Parnassus on Wheels, like its marvelous sequel, The Haunted Bookshop, is a delightful mix of engaging characters, lively plot, and thought provoking, common sense philosophy. Christopher Morley, later founder and editor of the Saturday Review, cleverly employed his remarkable traveling bookseller to expound on Morley's own deep commitment to good literature. Here is one of Roger Mifflin's most quoted statements: \\"Lord!\\" he said, \\"when you sell a man a book you don't sell him just twelve ounces of paper and ink and glue - you sell him a whole new life.\\"  Whatever you do, don't stop with Parnassus on Wheels. Immediately find a copy of its splendid sequel, The Haunted Bookshop. Cheers.	2004-10-30
US	49618395	R4NL1S1T1BP20	1587155664	125230802	The Haunted Bookshop	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Quaint and Delightful - Perfect Gift for Book Lovers	The Haunted Bookshop is quaint, delightful fiction that is simultaneously entertaining and thought provoking. Like its predecessor, Parnassus on Wheels, it is first and foremost a book for book lovers. The exuberant Roger Mifflin, the owner of a dusty, out-of-the way, used bookstore in Brooklyn, thrives on helping people discover new books and authors. His bookshop motto reads: \\"We have what you want, though you may not know you want it.\\" Making money is secondary to him and his favorite pastime is talking and arguing, especially about books.  <br /> <br />Written in 1919, the action centers upon a then contemporary event, the planned voyage of Woodrow Wilson to the Peace Conference in Europe. Roger's leather bound copy of Carlyle's Oliver Cromwell disappears from its shelf, only to reappear the following night. A clever story of espionage follows. <br /> <br />Roger is a man of his times and is deeply concerned that the mistakes leading to the Great War not be repeated. His hopes for future world peace are poignant, especially as we modern readers realize that in just two decades the Great War would be renamed, and numbered. <br /> <br />Christopher Morley's characters - the irrepressible Roger Mifflin, his pragmatic and loveable wife Helen McGill Mifflin, the youthful, diligent Titania Chapman that works in their shop, and her idealistic suitor Aubrey Gilbert - are all eminently likeable characters. The villains are indeed villainous, but thankfully, miscommunications within their ranks causes their plans to go awry. Aubrey, acting as an amateur sleuth, misinterprets the situation, but ultimately all works out for the best. <br /> <br />I suppose it is best to read Parnassus on Wheels and its sequel, The Haunted Bookshop, in order, but it is certainly not necessary. I suspect that whichever you begin with, you will immediately begin searching for the other. It is no surprise that Christopher Morley, author of more than 50 books, is primarily remembered for these two marvelous stories. <br /> <br />Years ago my wife and I stumbled upon a pleasantly enticing, used bookstore on a narrow street in downtown Mobile. It was appropriately named The Haunted Bookshop.	2004-10-29
US	49618395	R1G0X69HL75XJX	0897332946	581679972	The Grosvenor Square Goodbye	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Exceptionally Good Thriller - Intense and Suspenseful	The forward reads: If we begin with certainties, we shall end in doubts: but if we begin with doubts, and are patient in them, we shall end in certainties. Francis Bacon 1561-1626 <br /> <br />It would be inappropriate to reveal details of this intense thriller, The Grosvenor Square Goodbye. We begin with uncertainties, and are unsure about the characters, their actions, their motivations, and by what means the plot might bring them together. Francis Clifford's plot is superbly crafted from start to finish. The suspense never falters and the outcome is always uncertain.  <br /> <br />I was unfamiliar with Francis Clifford. But, the rave reviews on the back cover of The Grosvenor Square Goodbye paperback made my buying decision easy.  Ross MacDonald says: An extraordinary thriller!  Chicago Tribune Book World: Superbly suspenseful ..... Clifford at his story-telling best! Publishers Weekly: One of the best suspense thrillers ..... tantalizing!  <br /> <br />My paperback copy of The Grosvenor Square Goodbye was published in 1988 by Academy Chicago Publishers. Apparently, it was first published in 1974 under the title Good-Bye and Amen. With a little help from the internet, I learned that Francis Clifford was a pseudonym for Arthur Leonard Bell Thompson (1917-1975).   <br /> <br />Movie buffs might be aware that in 1967 Frank Sinatra played the key role in the film version of The Naked Runner, Clifford's most popular book. This cold war espionage thriller was directed by Sidney Furie and produced by Brad Dexter.	2004-10-29
US	49618395	R1HNM45N22QCIU	0809288338	895200451	One Hundred and One Famous Poems	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Nearing 100 Years and Going Strong - for Good Reasons	Roy J. Cook compiled his popular anthology in 1916, long before the Great Depression, WWII, the Civil Rights Movement, Vietnam, and the collapse of the Soviet Union. Eighty Years of Bestsellers (1895-1975) by Hackett and Burke ranks Roy J. Cook's anthology among the fifty most popular books sold in the U.S. in the past century. One Hundred and One Famous Poems (or alternatively, 101 Famous Poems) has remained continuously in print. <br /> <br />Why is 101 Famous Poems still popular today?  Cook's compilation is simply fun to read. Cook did include selections from great poets like Byron, Dickinson, Keats, Milton, Shakespeare, Shelley, Tennyson, Whitman, and Wordsworth. There are also popular poems by Frost, Kipling, Longfellow, Poe, Riley, and Whittier. However, what makes Cook's anthology special is that we find those lesser poems that we often memorized as a child and still find enjoyable years later. <br /> <br />I did not immediately recognize Lieut. Col. John McCrae, Henry Holcomb Bennett, Edmund Vance Cook, George Washington Doane, Eugene Field, Sam Walter Foss, William Ernest Henley, Mary Howitt, Sergeant Joyce Kilmer, Winifred M. Letts, Clement Clarke Moore, Thomas Buchanan Read, and Ella Wheeler Wilcox.  <br /> <br />And yet, many of their poems proved not to be strangers: But let me live by the side of the road and be a friend of man - We shall not sleep though poppies grow in Flanders Field - A poem as lovely as a tree - Laugh and the world laughs with you - I am the captain of my soul - Will you walk into my parlor?, said the spider to the fly - and, of course, The Night Before Christmas. I was happy to find one of my old favorites, The Duel, a fascinating paradox by Eugene Field. <br /> <br />I don't really keep my old edition with its yellowing pages and old fashioned oval portraits next to my bed for nightly reading. Our family does not actually read the poems aloud before the fireplace after the evening meal. But through the years I do occasionally find myself reading once again all 101 poems, rediscovering poets and poetry that I have nearly forgotten. You won't be disappointed with Roy J. Cook's compilation.	2004-10-28
US	49618395	R1MN4NS58L4XGK	0060974400	576015931	There Was an Old Woman	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Eccentric Characters, Well-Crafted Plot - Challenging	There Was An Old Woman named Cornelia Potts, who amassed a fortune selling shoes: Potts Shoes are America's Shoes - $3.99 Everywhere!  This eccentric woman lived with her six adult children in a mansion most notable for a huge bronze statue of an Oxford Shoe that decorated the extensive lawn. Her children from her first marriage - the aggressive Thurlow, the secretive Louella, and the playful Horatio - are all decidedly unbalanced. The three children from her second marriage, the twins Robert and Maclyn, and the beautiful Sheila, appear normal. Her argumentative son, Thurlow, challenged one of the twins to a duel. Mrs. Potts didn't know what to do. Actually, Mrs. Potts was not even concerned.    There Was An Old Woman (1943) is a classic Ellery Queen mystery. The reader is challenged to unravel a carefully constructed logical puzzle. The unusual setting, the eccentric characters, and the bizarre murders add spice to the effort. In the final chapters Ellery Queen peels away layers of confusion and misdirection, finally unveiling the culprit. The solution is surprising. Queen's logic, as usual, is convincing.    The Ellery Queen novels were immensely popular during the 1930s, 1940s, and 1950s. Paperback editions continued to be widely available in the 1960s and 1970s. Signet Classic Mysteries often packaged two Ellery Queen mysteries together as a double mystery. Later, fifty year commemorative editions were published, beginning in 1979 with the first Ellery Queen novel, The Roman Hat Mystery (1929). Reprints (from HarperPerennial and others) continue to be published today.    I particularly recommend the early Ellery Queen mysteries, especially The French Powder Mystery, The Greek Coffin Mystery, The Egyptian Cross Mystery, The Siamese Twin Mystery, The Chinese Orange Mystery, and The Spanish Cape Mystery.	2004-10-26
US	49618395	R2SWEFN6Z5RIDH	B000023VWV	521702492	The Roman Hat Mystery	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Ellery Queen's First Mystery - An Auspicious Beginning	The Roman Hat Mystery (August 15, 1929) established the basic pattern for many of the later Ellery Queen stories.  Ellery Queen, a recent college graduate, often assists his father, the highly respected Inspector Richard Queen of the New York City Police Department, with particularly difficult investigations. This arrangement gives Ellery access to crime scenes and confidential information not available to the general public.    In the late 1920s men still wore top hats for formal affairs. A death occurs in the Roman Theater and inexplicably, the murder victim's top hat is missing.  The Roman Hat Mystery is structured as a logical, deductive challenge to the reader. A list of characters and a floor plan of the Roman Theater are provided. Prior to the final chapter, the reader is informed that Ellery has solved the mystery, and the alert reader should have noted the critical clues. I was not particularly successful. Queen's detailed explanation is about twenty pages; the logic is convincing.    An earlier reviewer stated that readers new to Ellery Queen should first read some of the later stories like The French Powder Mystery, The Spanish Cape Mystery, or The Greek Coffin Mystery.  I am more ambivalent. Certainly, there is no need to read the Ellery Queen mysteries chronologically. The best approach may be to start with the first Ellery Queen mystery (with Ellery Queen as the major character) that you can find. They are all quite good.    Two cousins, Manfred B. Lee and Frederic Dannay, won first place for The Roman Hat Mystery in a writing contest, sponsored jointly by Frederick A. Stokes Company, a book publisher, and McClure's Magazine. Lee and Dannay used a pseudonym, Ellery Queen.  This choice has led to endless confusion as Ellery Queen is also the name of their fictional detective.     The Roman Hat Mystery proved to be quite successful and within a few years the Ellery Queen stories had become immensely popular. The Ellery Queen mysteries stayed in print forat least five decades. I recently had the good fortune to find a discount copy of a beautiful, leather bound, Franklin Library fifty-year commemorative edition of The Roman Hat Mystery. This edition is more costly, but it would make a good gift, possibly to yourself.	2004-10-17
US	49618395	R1Z58E2OEZ0UTL	0396090222	818186775	Collected nonsense and light verse	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Notable Nonsense and Laudable Light Verse - Great Fun	The humorous poetry of G. K. Chesterton is great fun. I seem unable to let go of Collected Nonsense and Light Verse; I am continually re-reading sections and it may be a long time before I actually set it aside.     This collection includes pure nonsense poetry (the poet W. H. Auden called it:  ... some of the best pure nonsense verse in English), drinking and traveling songs, satirical verses with a humorous vein, parodies and comical ballads. I am thankful to Marie Smith for her careful selections and clever arrangement of Chesterton's delightfully humorous verse.    Among my favorites is The Logical Vegetarian, an incisive argument that wine, sherry, and port are so very, very, vegetarian. Despite the title, A Ballade of Suicide is  hopeful and reassuring: \\"I think I will not hang myself today\\" is its memorable refrain. The Oneness of the Philosopher with Nature is enjoyable nonsense poetry.    The longest title for a poem is undoubtedly the following: Irresponsible Outbreak of One Who, Having Completed a Book of Enormous Length on the Poet Chaucer, Feels Himself Freed from all Bonds of Intellectual Self-Respect and Proposes to do no Work for an Indefinite Period.  I also enjoyed the poem titled Plakkopytrixophylisperambulantiobaxtrix, a twenty minute holiday from writing fiction.    The reader new to Chesterton's light verse is most likely unaware of greybeards, clerihews, and envois.  Greybeards at Play is Chesterton's earliest published poetry and is accompanied by the author's comical illustrations. G. K. Chesterton and his close friends - E. C. Bentley, Maurice Baring, and Hilaire Belloc - playfully composed short biographical verses, named clerihews after the middle name of E. C. Bentley. They likewise created envois, short concluding stanzas added to ballads, in this case as a comical postscripts.	2004-10-13
US	49618395	R1ZT9OJ5M05CRU	0451525647	461386470	The Man in the Iron Mask (Signet classics)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Exciting Conclusion to the Epic Trilogy of the Musketeers	The three stories comprising Alexandre Dumas' epic trilogy - The Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After, and The Man in the Iron Mask - have been continuously popular for more than 150 years. It is perhaps preferable to read all three novels in sequence, but it certainly not necessary. It is now more than twenty years after my last reading of The Three Musketeers and I had little difficulty going directly to The Man in the Iron Mask. I had forgotten how much I enjoyed these swashbuckling adventures. I look forward to reading once more The Three Musketeers and Twenty Years After.    The setting for The Man in the Iron Mask is France in 1660-1661. Louis XIV is consolidating his power over the aristocracy. The older Athos, Aramis, Porthos, and D'Artagnan cross paths again in this final story, but their relationship is more complex.  Aramis is engaged in secretive matters, an intrigue that excludes D'Artagnan, captain of King Louis XIV's musketeers. This novel not only concludes the tale of the musketeers, but it also seems to mark the end of chivalry as the autocratic King Louis XIV gains mastery over all of France.    I read the 500-page Signet Classics paperback edition. This unabridged translation, revised and updated by Jacqueline Rogers, is exciting and enjoyable. Jack Zipes, a professor at the University of Minnesota, contributed a useful summary (as an afterword, not as an introduction) that examined the actual historical context of The Man in the Iron Mask.     The rivalry between Fouquet and Colbert was historical fact. It is true that Louis XIV was unintentionally humiliated during his visit to Fouquet's magnificent chateau at Vaux, and that D'Artagnan was indeed the captain of the King's Musketeers. Most surprising, although shrouded in mystery, there was a prisoner whose face was hidden behind a mask. Nonetheless, Dumas was writing fiction, not history, and he altered the facts for dramatic effect. Whenever I encounter historical accounts that conflict with the stories of Dumas, I am disappointed with history, not with Dumas. I much prefer the chivalrous France of Dumas.    A Point of Confusion: The Musketeer trilogy is usually published as five books. The canonical set is The Three Musketeers, Twenty Years After, and The Vicomte de Bragelonne. However, the exceedingly long Vicomte is itself traditionally published in three volumes as Vicomte de Bragelonne, Louise de la Valliere, and The Man in the Iron Mask. As the title suggests, this Signet Classics edition includes only the third volume of The Vicomte de Bragelonne.	2004-10-10
US	49618395	R11VO2ZKVJ8PNM	0292727240	320826079	The Greeks	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Interesting, Balanced Look at the Early Greeks	Greece in ancient times was never a nation, never unified, and never shared a common concept of what defined a proper government. The hundreds of Greek city-states were highly competitive and warfare between them was common. The Greeks were able, on occasion, to come together to defeat a common enemy like the invading Persians. But these occasions were rare.    This short book, The Greeks, is the story of a people, not a conventional history text. Professor Dover describes his work as a handful of pebbles picked up from a long beach and arranged in a sequence of his choosing. His book is not a pedantic historical analysis, but rather a sympathetic effort to understand the ancient Greeks and how they viewed their world.     Professor Dover described the early Greeks as \\"resilient, skeptical, cheeky people\\" whose distinctive contribution to Western history was a readiness to ask \\"Why? and Why not?\\" and to expect sane, reasoned, and clear answers. They openly challenged accepted concepts, even their own religious beliefs, although sometimes at considerable risk.    The Greeks is comprised of only six chapters. Chapter one places the Greeks in the broader context of the Babylonians, the Assyrians, the Hittites, and the vast Persian empire which emerged around 600 B. C.  In the second chapter Dover explores the rivalry between Syracuse and Athens, thereby challenging the conventional Athenocentric view of Greek history.    The last four chapters consider Greek sculpture and pottery, poetry and painting, a dramatic play (The Oresteia by Aeschylus), and lastly, philosophy, logic, and reason. I especially liked Dover's examination of The Oresteia. I have since purchased this trilogy - Agamemnon, Choephori, and Eumenides.     The Greeks was originally marketed as a companion to a BBC television series by Christopher Burstall and Kenneth Dover.  It has remained popular and has often been used as a supplementary college text.  My copy, a fourth edition (1995) by the Universityof Texas Press, includes a mix of color and black and white photos. Christopher Burstall authored the short introduction.	2004-10-03
US	49618395	R7IAYE73RQGVI	0451119258	343212749	The French Powder Mystery	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Ellery's 2nd Mystery - Proof Positive of Exceptional Talent	The 1930 novel, \\"The French Powder Mystery\\", is a well-structured detective story that challenges the reader, is scrupulously fair, and makes good reading.  <br /> <br />Cyrus French is the chairman of the eminently successful and stylistically influential French's Department Store in midsection New York. In recent weeks the store window has been opened precisely at noon each day to exhibit somewhat fantastical, European modern furniture. Today the waiting crowd is awestruck as a dead body tumbles from a wall bed.  This second mystery by Ellery Queen, the follow-up to his remarkable first novel The Roman Hat Mystery, was proof positive that this new author was here to stay. <br />  <br />The French Powder Mystery foreshadowed the innovative mysteries that would follow in the next few years, classic deductive novels like The Tragedy of X (1932) and The Greek Coffin Mystery (1932) and The Tragedy of Y (1932) and The Spanish Cape Mystery (1935). <br />  <br />To me, much of the fascination with The French Powder Mystery was the recognition that the New York of 1930 now seems remotely distant. While drugs and drug addiction were not unknown, they were largely unfamiliar evils. A former college companion of Ellery Queen says, \\"Mightn't it be the same stuff? Heroin, I think you called it.\\"  Also, New York at night was more secure. For an alibi a young woman replies, \\"When I left the Zorns that evening, it was a little after ten. I walked and walked in the park (Central Park) until almost midnight.\\" And the wealthy were indeed different: a cosmopolitan young woman had cigarettes, appropriately scented, made up especially for her by a custom tobacco manufacturer. <br /> <br />The French Powder Mystery is classic Ellery Queen and should appeal to all fans of deductive mystery stories. Good hunting.	2004-10-03
US	49618395	R31LWAZE013PKT	048626551X	292919072	The Napoleon of Notting Hill (Dover Books on Literature and Drama)	Books	5	45	46	N	N	Great Introduction to the Creative Mind of G. K. Chesterton	This short book, The Napoleon of Notting Hill, written 100 years ago, is a futuristic fantasy, a political satire, a prophetic tale, and a comic novel, all intertwined. Published in 1904, The Napoleon of Notting Hill was G. K. Chesterton's first novel. It has been called the best first novel by any author in the twentieth century. <br /> <br />It has been some years since my first reading of The Napoleon of Notting Hill. Once again I find it to be enjoyable, humorous, highly entertaining, and decidedly thought provoking.   <br /> <br />The setting is London in the year 1984, 80 years in the future. Chesterton had tired of endless predictions of futuristic technologies. His future London is identical to Edwardian London - all technological advance halted in 1904. One change is notable: the people have lost faith in political revolutions. Only slow, gradual change, akin to Darwinian evolution, was fashionable. No one was interested in voting, and consequently, democracy had withered away. A ruling monarch, a king, was selected in some capricious, random manner from the governmental class. All was well until Auberon Quin was chosen to rule as king. <br /> <br />As a lark, the new King designs colorful, medieval style uniforms, required dress for all governmental representatives of the London boroughs on official occasions. Reluctantly, city officials comply with the king's ridiculous wish to revitalize local patriotism. Unexpectedly, the Provost of Notting Hill, a sober young man named Adam Wayne, a man without humor, takes the King's command seriously. An attempt by other London boroughs to route a major thoroughfare through Notting Hill leads not only to acrimony, but to actual warfare. <br /> <br />The first chapter is Chesterton's scholarly criticism and friendly ridicule of contemporary (that is, early 1900) prophecies of scientific and technological changes, especially the more utopian futuristic projections, and is titled Introductory Remarks on the Art of Prophecy.  The actual story does not commence until chapter two. <br /> <br />This inexpensive Dover edition includes a lengthy, interesting introduction by Martin Gardner. The artist W. Graham Robertson penned seven full page ink drawings and a map of the seat of the war.	2004-09-29
US	49618395	RCZ5PG4WEIWG2	0486243338	629482478	The Haunted Hotel	Books	5	48	50	N	N	Subtitled: A Mystery of Modern Venice - 1860 vintage	Reading a novel by Wilkie Collins requires substantial time, but my investment is usually well rewarded. His lesser known novel, The Haunted Hotel, is uncharacteristically short, and is an easy way to become acquainted with Wilkie Collins.  The Haunted Hotel offers a fast moving, tight plot that maintains the reader's interest. It is a mystery story, a ghost story, and an early psychological thriller, all melded smoothly together. <br /> <br />The story begins in London, but later moves to the modern Venice of 1860.  The dark, wet waterways and aging palaces provide an ideal setting for a mysterious death and a possibly related disappearance. Suspicion there is, but evidence is sparse. A threatening apparition indirectly hints at further clues. <br /> <br />The psychology component revolves around the Countess Narona, one of the most memorable characters created by Collins. The seemingly amoral Countess foresees, or believes she foresees, her eventual punishment and doom for previous evils. Her obsession leads her step by step toward the very retribution that she hopes to avoid. <br /> <br />The Haunted Hotel - A Mystery of Modern Venice was first published in 1879.  I recommend buying the inexpensive Dover edition (ISBN 0486243338).  Dover also reprints other books by Wilkie Collins, including The Moonstone, The Lady in White, The Dead Secret, Basil, No Name, and others. Through these works Wilkie Collins is credited with having popularized the classic detective mystery story.	2004-09-25
US	49618395	RFHHC82SPMRZ9	0375758275	894188613	The Polish Officer: A Novel	Books	5	140	144	N	N	Intriguing, Authentic Description of Occupied Europe	The reader new to Alan Furst may not immediately recognize that the plot is subordinate to the setting and character development. The Polish Officer, like his other novels, ends somewhat abruptly; the war continues unabated and the fate of his protagonist remains unresolved. Furst sees WWII as a large canvas. This novel, a detailed painting by Alan Furst, only covers a minute spot. <br /> <br />Poland is under coordinated attacks by Hitler's Germany and Stalin's Russia. The story begins as Captain Alexander de Milja is assigned the task of transporting by train Poland's national gold reserves to a location out of reach of Hitler's forces. Not much later, despite fierce fighting by Polish forces, Poland is overwhelmed and de Milja joins the Polish resistance. The setting moves from Poland to Romania to France to the Ukraine as de Milja's situation becomes increasingly insecure. The Polish officer himself no longer has rank, nor an army, nor a country. He does not expect to survive. <br /> <br />Furst's novels excel in two regards: their historical settings are authentic while simultaneously the stories provide unexpected, even unique, perspectives on WWII. In this story we readers experience life from inside an occupied Poland, inside an intimidated Romania, within a surrendered France, and in a brutalized Ukraine. His plots are suspenseful and well-crafted, and yet I recall his stories more for their detailed settings. It is unlikely that I will forget Furst's description of occupied Europe. <br /> <br />The WWII historical novels of Alan Furst offer a richness and authenticity seldom encountered. I highly recommend The Polish Officer. It is among his finest works and is a great introduction to a remarkable author.	2004-09-25
US	49618395	R32W8X7HL4352O	0151001812	297422625	The Fencing Master	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Leisurely Paced Historical Mystery - Spain 1868	The magnificent Spain that opened the New World to Europeans had faded into near obscurity by the nineteenth century. The setting is Madrid, 1868. Her Catholic Majesty, Queen Isabel II, has a tenuous hold on the throne. The now aging Don Jaime Astarloa, a superb fencing master, ekes a marginal existence training the young sons of aristocrats, although he does have one highly proficient client, Luis de Ayala-Velate y Vallespin, the Marques de los Alumbres.    The pistol is displacing the sword. Classical fencing, once mandatory for all men of honor, is increasingly viewed as anachronistic, valued as little more than healthy exercise for young men. Amidst the conniving political intrigue of Madrid, Don Jaime, as a man of honor, is anachronistic himself.    The story moves leisurely, slowly revealing details about the reserved Don Jaime. In parallel, the author, Arturo Perez-Reverte, allows the unsettled, unpredictable political background to suggest that Don Jaime's philosophical isolation may not last indefinitely. The pivotal point, the arrival of a mysterious, beautiful woman requesting advanced fencing lessons, lacked some authenticity, and yet I was intrigued. The mystery itself is not exceptional and the outcome is not entirely unforeseen. Nonetheless, I found The Fencing Master to be enjoyable reading, perhaps more for its unfamiliar historical setting and its unusual topic, the art of classical fencing, than for the mystery itself.  I look forward to reading other novels by Arturo Perez-Reverte.	2004-09-17
US	49618395	R2DKLHBV94SC6A	1419148788	722738590	Stalky and Company	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Humorous Tales by Kipling - Meet Stalky, M'Turk, and Beetle	Stalky and Co. is great fun. I have twice read these nine clever tales of three outrageous school boys - Stalky, M'Turk, and Beetle.  Their ongoing battle of wits with masters (especially their nemesis, the sanctimonious Mr. King), fellow students, and the occasional school bully are immensely entertaining. Rudyard Kipling allegedly based these stories on his school years; to some degree Beetle was a self-portrait. <br /> <br />I had some initial difficulty with Kipling's schoolboy dialogue, but I did eventually become fluent in late nineteenth century British schoolboy slang. This fluency is critical to enjoying Kipling as the stories are comprised almost entirely of dialogue. <br /> <br />We quickly learn in the first story, In Ambush, that despite rules to the contrary, all right minded boys built huts in the furze hill behind the school, a place of retreat and meditation, where they smoked.  Stalky, M'Turk, and Beetle were no exception. In this tale the three friends brilliantly outwit Mr. King, but they prove no match for the Headmaster, the final arbitrator and administer of justice. <br /> <br />Mr. King again underestimates the trio in the comical tale, An Unsavory Interlude. As Kipling unveils the convoluted, devious exploits of Stalky and friends, I wondered how they found time for Latin, mathematics, writing, and other studies. The answer is revealed in The Impressionists, another uneven match between the trio and a master, this time the overly conscientious Mr. Prout. <br /> <br />The tone of the last few stories - A Little Prep, The Flag of Their Country, and The Last Term - remained amusing, but they addressed more serious topics like bullying, sincere patriotism, and true courage. Kipling concludes with a visit with the schoolboys more than a decade later, now responsible men entrusted with managing and protecting the extensive British empire. <br /> <br />Stalky and Co. is as delightfully humorous today as it was a century ago. I am sure that you will enjoy meeting Stalky, M'Turk, and Beetle. Cheers.	2004-09-14
US	49618395	RU9DP5BESA8JP	0486243745	687750591	The Murder Book of J. G. Reeder	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Eight Amusing, Enjoyable Mystery Stories - 1925 Vintage	The honorable J. G. Reeder of the Public Prosecutor's Office, London, complete with whiskers, a frock coat, and an old unfurled umbrella, was old fashioned, mild mannered, and decidedly dangerous. Bank robbers, forgers, counterfeiters, and murderers paid a severe penalty for underestimating this stuffy character.     I enjoyed all eight stories in this Dover Publications reprint of The Murder Book of J. G. Reeder (1925). The plots are sometimes a bit farfetched, the endings perhaps contrived, and the characters, especially members of the criminal class, may seem like stereotypes. And yet, Wallace successfully weaves a delightful humor into these clever stories. Like me, some readers may find Mr. Reeder's uncanny ability to place himself in the mind of the criminal to be reminiscent of G. K. Chesterton's famous Father Brown.    Edgar Wallace was an amazingly popular author. It is said that in the 1920s and 1930s, excluding Bibles and textbooks, roughly one in four books read in Great Britain was authored by Edgar Wallace. This king of thrillers published 173 books and 17 plays. As so often happens with extremely successful writers of popular fiction (especially pulp fiction), Edgar Wallace's reputation has faded and he is virtually unknown today.     Nonetheless, the short stories in this collection, The Murder Book of J. G. Reeder, are quite entertaining. These amusingly outdated tales can offer a short respite from the more serious, and often more explicitly brutal, detective and mystery novels so popular today.	2004-09-13
US	49618395	R1FP7X57JO8SI2	0060922524	943917779	Untimely Death	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Intriguing Plot, Good Characterizations, Authentic Setting	Untimely Death brings together two of Cyril Hare's most popular characters, the lawyer Francis Pettigrew, and the now retired Inspector Mallett of Scotland Yard. The plot also intertwines two uncertain deaths with two more definitive deaths. The first questionable death involves a nearly forgotten, possibly suppressed, childhood memory of Francis Pettigrew of an encounter with a dead body at an isolated location known as Bolter's Tussock near Exmoor.    Pettigrew is vacationing with his wife, Eleanor, in the countryside.  Coincidentally, their lodging is not far from where his old friend Inspector Mallet lives. Pettigrew's thrifty innkeeper is the father to Mrs. Gorman. The Gorman clan squabbles in the best of times and the impending death of severely ill, wealthy Gilbert Gorman adds fuel to the fire.    Revisiting Bolter's Tussock out of curiosity, Francis Pettigrew unexpectedly again makes an equally vague and uncertain sighting of a dead body. A trick of memory, a delusion, a haunting?    I especially enjoyed a later chapter as the author, Cyril Hare, actually a retired judge himself, paints an amusing portrait of a civil suit in the Chancery Court VI with the honorable Mr. Justice Pomeroy presiding.  The discussion of an obscure point of law - Jack Gorman's will barred the entail, that is, created a base fee - is adeptly handled with humor. Lord Pomeroy becomes decidedly intrigued with the Jack's will, comically so.    The mystery itself is not unfairly challenging, but regardless I missed some obvious clues, the subtle meaning of the title, and other indications pointing to the solution. This leisurely mystery warrants another reading. My second reading will be more careful and, now aware of the culprit, I expect to more readily uncover the evidence.    Untimely Death was first published in 1958 in Great Britain as He Should Have Died Hereafter and was reprinted by Harper Perennial books in 1992. I learned interesting tidbits about English life in the mid-twentieth century, such as the increased difficulty in acquiring a driver's license under the recently passed Road Traffic Acts. I previously reviewed Suicide Excepted (1939), another enjoyable mystery by Cyril Hare.	2004-09-13
US	49618395	R3UFAK1NKVJHWY	039609211X	844004687	Thirteen Detectives	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Curious Amateur Sleuths and Imaginative Plots	Twelve stories introduce thirteen detectives created by G. K. Chesterton. All are slightly eccentric, curious amateur sleuths. Seldom brash, these more reserved amateurs are more artistic than scientific, and yet are every bit as clever as their contemporary, Sherlock Holmes.<br /><br />Marie Smith selected and compiled these twelve stories. Dodd, Mead, and Company published this entertaining introduction to Chesterton's lesser known detectives.<br /><br />For readers familiar with Chesterton's remarkable Father Brown stories, Thirteen Detectives contains a surprise. The Donnington Affair is a newly discovered Father Brown mystery that had remained hidden away in an obscure English magazine, The Premier. The format is unorthodox - another writer posed the murder mystery and challenged Chesterton to solve the mystery. Chesterton's Father Brown succeeds, but in doing so he provides his most Byzantine solution.<br /><br />Two stories, When Doctors Agree and The Three Horseman of the Apocalypse, introduce Mr. Pond, a mild mannered civil servant that has the curious trait of uttering paradoxical statements that often lead to intriguing tales. For example, in the story When Doctors Agree he unaccountably states, \\"I did know two men who came to agree so completely that one of them naturally murdered the other.\\" More adventures can be found in the Dover reprint of G. K. Chesterton's The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond.<br /><br />Two tales that involve the brothers Rupert and Basil Grant - The Singular Speculation of the House Agent and The Tremendous Adventure of Major Brown - have a fantasy like quality. These two stories and others can be found in Chesterton's The Club of Queer Tales, another Dover reprint.<br /><br />I also enjoyed the six remaining stories; all were entirely new to me. In The White Pillars Murder two young apprentices, John Brandon and Walter Weir, assist the great detective Dr. Hadrian Hyde. The solution  was quite a surprise. The other stories are The Garden of Smoke, The Hole in the Wall, The Bottomless Well, The Shadow of the Shark, and The Finger of Stone.  The science in the last story was suspect, but the story was intriguing nonetheless.<br /><br />The remarkable Argentine writer, Jorge Luis Borges, astutely observed that today's widely popular detective story is essentially a literary game, and speculated that readers might tire of its structured formula and that this genre would eventually disappear. Nevertheless, he argued that \\"in spite of this, Chesterton's stories will always be read, since a mystery that so imaginatively suggests an impossible, fantastic occurrence is interesting for more than the logical explanation contained in the last few lines.\\"tomless Well, The Shadow of the Shark, and The Finger of Stone.  The science in the last story was suspect, but the story was intriguing nonetheless.    The remarkable Argentine writer, Jorge Luis Borges, astutely observed that today's widely popular detective story is essentially a literary game, and speculated that readers might tire of its structured formula and that this genre would eventually disappear. Nevertheless, he argued that \\"in spite of this, Chesterton's stories will always be read, since a mystery that so imaginatively suggests an impossible, fantastic occurrence is interesting for more than the logical explanation contained in the last few lines.\\"	2004-08-29
US	49618395	R1J6YUT27MHF1M	0486264718	835010639	Gunga Din and Other Favorite Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	Good Introduction to Kipling's Poetry	Rudyard Kipling's poetry and prose resonated with the general public in Great Britain and America during the late 1800s and early 1900s. Later, as his patriotism and unabashed support for the British empire became viewed as outdated, his reputation faded.    It is easy to dismiss Kipling as culturally insensitive, especially if one has read little of his poetry. And admittedly, it is not difficult to find specific verses to support this contention. However, I quickly discovered that this characterization of Rudyard Kipling is incomplete, one sided, and simplistic.    The Ballad of East and West begins with the familiar lines: \\"Oh, East is East and West is West, and Never the Twain Shall Meet.\\" Contrary to what these opening lines suggest, this ballad illustrates Kipling's appreciation for what we now call cultural diversity. The Ballad of East and West ends with this thought: \\"But there is neither East nor West, Border, nor Breed, nor Birth, When two strong men stand face to face, tho' they come from the ends of the earth.\\"    In the Neolithic Age: \\"There are nine and sixty ways of constructing tribal lays, and every single one of them is right.\\" This nonjudgmental refrain is surprisingly modern.    The Sea and the Hills: \\"So and no otherwise - so and no otherwise hillmen desire their Hills.\\" Each verse in this poem proclaims the majesty and power of the great seas, sentiments widely held by the seafaring British people. And yet, each verse ends with a reminder that others, like the hillmen, equally respect their native environment.    The Betrothed: \\"And a woman is only a woman, but a good cigar is a Smoke.\\" This much quoted comical reply was made to Maggie's ultimatum, \\"You must choose between me and your cigar\\". No, this might not appeal to the modern woman.  Possibly, however, The Female of the Species might go some ways in making amends with its refrain: \\"For the female of the species is more deadly than the male.\\"    The Absent-Minded Beggar: \\"Pass the hat foryour credit's sake, and pay - pay - pay.\\" This widely popular poem was credited with the amassing of donations for the aged, destitute veterans of Britain's many conflicts.    Kipling declined most of the many honors which were offered him, including a knighthood, the Poet Laureateship, and the Order of Merit, but in 1907 he accepted the Nobel Prize for Literature.	2004-08-28
US	49618395	R28QXTSZBLLBV0	0486242455	923707068	Suicide Excepted	Books	3	10	11	N	N	Good plot,  Surprise Ending,  Four Stars	The British Imperial Insurance Company repudiated liability for payment for the death of Mr. Leonard Dickinson as his policy had been in effect only eight months. Clause 4a clearly specified that death by suicide was excepted from coverage during the first year of the policy. Mr. Dickinson's wife, his son Stephen, and daughter Anne all considered suicide highly unlikely. The police investigation eliminated the possibility of accident. Stephen, Anne, and her fiance, Martin Johnson, undertake a private investigation to uncover evidence of murder.    The plot, setting, and characters in Suicide Excepted are well developed. Inspector Mallett of Scotland Yard, one of Cyril Hare's popular, recurring characters, plays a key role at various points, but does not dominate this story. The death occurs in a locked room at Pendlebury Old Hall, a manor house converted to a bed and breakfast hotel. By happenchance, Inspector Mallett was a guest at Pendlebury that weekend. Is it really murder?  Who might be the suspects?  What might be the motivation?  The amateur investigations by the younger members of the Dickinson family more often than not lead to dead ends, but we do learn enough about the suspects to develop credible theories.  The ending is likely to be a surprise.    Cyril Hare is a pseudonym of judge Alfred Alexander Gordon Clark. Having just read Suicide Excepted for a second time (October, 2006), I easily rate it as 4 stars, possibly higher. (For some unexplicable reason I originally rated this story a few years ago as only three stars.) Suicide Excepted was originally published in Great Britain in 1939. Macmillan published an American edition in 1954.	2004-08-28
US	49618395	R24SRUFC4RFEXZ	0883185970	168633575	The Theory of Heat Radiation (History of Modern Physics and Astronomy)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Planck's Seminal Work - AIP Historical Series	In 1900 Max Planck introduced a quantum constant into his mathematical expression for the energy distribution of blackbody radiation. This act is now considered to mark the beginning of the twentieth century revolution in physics. Planck's contemporaries had difficulty understanding his earliest papers on the quantum concept. In 1906 and 1914 Planck published more comprehensive accounts of his theory of blackbody heat radiation and his quantum hypothesis.     This American Institute of Physics publication, The Theory of Heat Radiation, reprints these two later works - Vorlesungen Uber die Theorie der Warmestrahlung (1906) and his revised and expanded second edition (1914). The 1906 work is in German while the revised 1914 edition is in English. This publication is volume 11 in the outstanding AIP series titled The History of Modern Physics 1800-1950.    I found the lengthy introduction by Allan Needell to be very helpful in placing Planck's work in the proper historical context and in identifying points at which Planck made key changes in his personal views. Much of Needell's introduction is devoted to Planck's gradual acceptance of Boltzmann's probabilistic approach to entropy.    The first fifty pages examine heat radiation from the perspective of classical optics, including topics like radiation at thermodynamic equilibrium, Kirchhoff's law, and blackbody radiation. The next fifty pages, deductions from electrodynamics and thermodynamics, were substantially more mathematical. Planck discussed the Stefan-Boltzmann law of radiation and the Wien displacement law in detail as well as spectral distribution of energy radiation. Section III presents a general procedure for calculating entropy and introduces his quantum hypothesis. I did not study section IV (Planck's derivation of the law of the distribution of energy in the spectrum of blackbody radiation), nor section V (Irreversible Radiation Processes.)     Despite an extended effort on my part, I did not find Planck's systematic examination of heat radiation to be particularly helpful as an aid to mastering thermodynamics. Its appeal is largely historical. Needell rightly observes that Planck's works will primarily benefit those readers who seek to study and understand the history of quantum physics. However, I do believe that general readers with substantial familiarity with thermodynamics and electrodynamics will find it worthwhile to study Allan Needell's thoughtful introduction and to browse Max Planck's seminal work.    For those looking for a more basic self-tutorial, I highly recommend Thermodynamics by Enrico Fermi. Dover Publications has reprinted this remarkably lucid, concise work in an inexpensive soft cover format. This short book is based on a series of lectures given by Fermi at Columbia University in 1936.     I also recommend chapter one, Thermal Radiation and Planck's Postulate, in the widely used text book Quantum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei, and Particles by Robert Eisberg and Robert Resnick.	2004-08-22
US	49618395	R1NSLNAMZ1WCSU	0913559369	236917935	Magic & Madness in the Library : Protagonists Among the Stacks	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Library - Through the Eyes of Great Writers	The title, Magic and Madness in the Library, is highly appropriate. Cervantes, Voltaire, Swift, Washington Irving, Jules Verne, Edward Bellamy, Edith Wharton, Aldous Huxley, Virginia Woolf, Jorge Luis Borges, Ray Bradbury, Umberto Eco, Stephen King, and other writers have created fascinating portraits of fictional libraries - public libraries, private libraries, mythical libraries, magical libraries, and evil libraries. <br /> <br />Perhaps it is not surprising that this anthology begins with an humorous excerpt from what may be arguably the first European novel, the tale of Don Quixote (1605). This first entry details the well-intentioned destruction of Don Quixote's private library by the village priest, the local barber, the housekeeper, and Quixote's niece.  <br /> <br />Jonathan Swift, the master of satire, describes a conflict between the ancient classics and modern literary upstarts in The Battle of the Books (1695). Another satire, Voltaire's Candide (1759), observes that the most esteemed literary critic is one that most readily finds fault with all writers, including Homer, Virgil, Horace, Cicero, Milton, as well as all German poets. <br /> <br />Jules Verne created the first submersible library in Twenty Thousand Leagues under the Sea (1869). I was unfamiliar with Edmund Lester Pearson's haunting tale, The Library and the Librarian (1910), a story of imaginary books. The Library of Babel (1944) is among Jorge Luis Borges' finest stories.  It begins with the observation: The Universe (which others call the library) is composed of an indefinite, and perhaps infinite number of hexagonal galleries ... <br /> <br />Something Wicked This Way Comes (1932) is a Ray Bradbury classic. Umberto Eco's remarkable scholarly classic, The Name of the Rose (1981), is perhaps the most outstanding library-centric novel ever written. Overdue books are not trivial concerns in The Library Policeman (1990) by Stephen King. <br /> <br />Other selections include excerpts from TheMutability of Literature (1820) by Washington Irving, Looking Backward (1887) by Edward Bellamy, The House of Mirth (1905) by Edith Wharton, Crome Yellow (1922) by Aldous Huxley, Jacob's Room (1923) by Virginia Woolf,  Hold for Arrival (1995) by Donald Olson, and The Giant's House (1996) by Elizabeth McCracken.  This anthology ends with an excerpt from the narrative poem The Library (1838) by Rev. George Crabbe. <br /> <br />Hats off to the editor, Eric Graeber, head librarian at The General Society Library in New York City, for this entertaining and eclectic anthology. Magic and Madness in the Library belongs in your collection.	2004-08-16
US	49618395	RD2CV2VTIPQS8	0486256219	731804525	Mayhem in B-Flat (Detective Stories)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Madcap Mix of Merriment and Murder - 1940 Mystery	A 1940 contemporary review described Mayhem in B-Flat as \\"a sizzling concoction of murder, merriment and madness\\". A zany cast of characters collide in a far-fetched plot that unfolds in the decadent and scandalous background of Paris in the late 1930s. This is pure fiction; there is no hint of the worsening international situation in Europe. Surprisingly, Elliot Paul, the author, does not allow the humorous situations that continually arise to undermine the mystery itself. Mayhem in B-Flat is a detection novel that challenges the reader. <br /> <br />The investigation of the theft of a rare Guarnerius violin during a public concert is unexpectedly complicated by multiple murders, gang warfare, mysterious poisons, and a possible escape from Devil's Island. The plot is unpredictable. The eccentric, improbable characters are immensely entertaining. I will leave the details unspecified.  The reader derives much enjoyment from the unexpected events and unanticipated coincidences that characterize the plot.    <br /> <br />Mayhem in B-Flat is the third story involving Homer Evans, an independently wealthy, well-educated, suave American with a penchant for solving complex mysteries. I have not read the two earlier stories - The Mysterious Mickey Finn and Hugger-Mugger in the Louvre - but their titles suggest a similar humorous vein. <br /> <br />Dover Publications specializes in publishing works no longer in print. I particularly enjoy the Dover mystery and detective fiction series. Many selections are recognized classics by authors like Wilkie Collins, G. K. Chesterton, and J. Sheridan LeFanu. Others, like Mayhem in B-Flat (1940), are rarely encountered today. These inexpensive reprints are not only enjoyable reading, but they also provide an intriguing look at contemporary life and attitudes of the late nineteenth and early twentieth century.	2004-08-15
US	49618395	R24IFWK0I3PX9V	020160843X	678952070	Prairie Keepers: Secrets Of The Grasslands	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Wildlife Field Research - A Delightful, Personal Account	The Prairie Keepers is a charming account of a graduate student's summer wildlife biology project. I enjoyed sharing Marcy Houle's youthful enthusiasm for the rugged Zumwalt Prairie, her fascination with prairie wildlife, and her persistent efforts to determine why the buteo hawks thrived in this remote area in Oregon. Her descriptions of the adversarial relationship between the ranchers of the Zumwalt Prairie and the government employees (Forest Service, BLM, Fish and Wildlife Services, and the Oregon Department of Fish and Game) managing public land were thoughtful and well-balanced.  Her recognition of the role ranchers play in preserving the Zumwalt Prairie was particularly insightful.     The remote Zumwalt Prairie in northeastern Oregon is home to a large concentration of buteo hawks - the ferruginous hawks, red-tailed hawks, and the Swainson hawks, all characterized by distinctive broad, round-tipped wings, husky bodies, and wide fanning tails. Elsewhere most hawk populations appear to be in decline. What makes the Zumwalt prairie habitat special?    Marcy Houle had a daunting summer job: locate and identify the nesting buteo population on the 200 square mile Zumwalt prairie. Climb the trees and place leg bands on the hatchlings while cautiously ignoring angry parents. Identify and measure relevant ecological parameters that might offer clues why the Zumwalt prairie is so attractive to buteo hawks.    Her account brought back memories of a summer several years ago when I mapped paleomagnetic trends in southwestern Montana.  My field work was in many ways different; I certainly never climbed trees to place leg bands on hawk hatchlings! Nonetheless, I readily related to Marcy Houle's description of her field activities: careful reading of topographic maps and aerial photos, exercising care on private property, and completing transects of range conditions. Thanks to Marcy Houle for an enjoyable book.	2004-08-10
US	49618395	R3UOQBBSRNWHND	0486235238	618550902	The Passenger from Scotland Yard: A Victorian Detective Novel	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Inspector Byde Employs Euclidian Logic - Victorian Novel	E. F. Bleiler, the editor to this Dover edition, writes that the last third of the nineteenth century is a barren period for the detective novel. The major mystery authors of that period - Fergus Hume, Anna Katherine Green, Julian Hawthorne, Thomas B. Aldrich, Major Arthur Griffiths, and others - were mediocre or worst.        However, Bleiler considers The Passenger from Scotland Yard (1888) by H. F. Wood to be a clear exception that warrants reading today. He calls it the best detective novel published between The Moonstone (1866) by Wilkie Collins and The Hound of Baskervilles (1902) by Arthur Conan Doyle.        While the primary value of this book may be the insight it provides into the formative years of the detective story, The Passenger from Scotland does makes good reading. The plot is well-constructed and remains interesting. The story begins with the boarding in London of the night mail train to Dover for the crossing of the Channel. We learn a little about the passengers as we travel, but we remain somewhat cautious and wary. The murder comes as a surprise and we are puzzled whether it has any connection to the recent diamond theft.        I was especially entertained by the wary encounters and maneuvering between Inspector Byde and his suspect; neither underestimated his opponent. Byde's investigations are necessarily circumspect as his Scotland Yard credentials had uncertain standing on French soil. Inspector Byde himself is a somewhat curious character with a naive belief that Euclidian logic can be directly applied to criminal investigations.         I was fascinated by H. F. Wood's description of the open, public viewing of unidentified corpses at the Morgue near the towers of Notre Dame. Viewings were conducted in a carnival atmosphere with jostling crowds offering diverse speculations, especially regarding the body of an unidentified foreigner. There were even references to American dynamiters, some group of anarchists.        H. F. Wood is thought to be H. Freeman Wood, but general reference works often confuse the latter name with other obscure writers including an American humorist H. Firth Wood. Our particular H. F. Wood was a London journalist stationed in Egypt in 1895 to cover the British occupation. He wrote seven books; The Passenger from Scotland Yard is considered his best work.	2004-07-31
US	49618395	R3GIS4YSFYDDXH	048624511X	355873846	Sidelights on Relativity	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Two Fascinating Lectures - Will Appeal to Physics Students	This 56-page Dover edition offers two lectures by Albert Einstein, &quot;Ether and the Theory of Relativity&quot; and &quot;Geometry and Experience&quot;. The lectures are described as &quot;devoid of complicated equations and abstruse terminology&quot;. Nonetheless, while the reader does benefit from Einstein's clarity of thought, these lectures do require careful attention. The first lecture presumes familiarity with physics; the second is largely a discussion of non-Euclidian geometry and is easier reading.      Ether and the Theory of Relativity, an address delivered on May 5, 1920 at University of Leyden:       Einstein recounts how the concept of ether originated and subsequently evolved. After some discussion of work by Hertz, Maxwell, Lorentz, and Mach, he notes that it became possible to take a position that ether does not exist. However, using an analogy of water waves, he explains that although the special theory of relativity does forbid us to assume ether consists of particles observable through time, the hypothesis of ether in itself is not in conflict with the special theory of relativity. Only we must give up ascribing a motion to it.       While it may seem superfluous to postulate a homogeneous, isotropic, ether-medium, Einstein contends that to deny the ether is ultimately to assume that empty space has no physical qualities at all. He then argues that according to his General Theory of Relativity &quot;empty space&quot; in its physical relation is neither homogeneous nor isotropic, compelling us to describe its state by ten functions (the gravitational potentials). There can be no space or part of space without gravitational potentials.       After noting that elementary particles may be considered condensations of electromagnetic fields, he concludes that our current view of the universe presents two realties which are completely separated from each other conceptually, although connected casually, namely gravitational ether and electromagnetic field, or as they might be called, space and matter.       Geometry and Experience - an expanded form of an address to the Prussian Academy of Sciences in Berlin on January 27, 1921:      Einstein begins by posing and answering why mathematics, a product of human thought, is so admirably appropriate to describing reality. In exploring limitations associated with applying Euclidian geometry to relations between rigid bodies, Einstein introduces other axiomatic systems, including Riemann's geometry. He argues that there are difficulties in applying geometry on the sub-molecular level, but it is less problematical to extend the ideas of geometry to cosmic orders of magnitude.      After some clarification of the meaning of a finite universe and an infinite universe, he devotes several pages to illustrating how to visualize a finite, three dimensional universe that is unbounded. Einstein concludes this lecture with an enthusiastic comment: &quot;My only aim today has to show that the human faculty of visualization is by no means bound to capitulate to non-Euclidian geometry.&quot;	2004-07-31
US	49618395	R26ARAAY0Z70L9	067425726X	574858605	Enigma Variations	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Suspenseful Cultural Anthropology - A New Genre	I had to continually remind myself that this remarkable story was indeed fiction and not a scholarly account of a factual occurrence. I had actually purchased this book believing it to be a descriptive work of field anthropology. Enigma Variations was published by Harvard University Press, the authors acknowledged their fellowships from the John Simon Guggenheim Memorial Foundation and the National Endowment for the Humanities, every page is illustrated with scanned images of Saramakan art objects, and the footnotes referenced genuine scholarly publications. I did not immediately realize that this fascinating story was actually a rare blend of cultural anthropology and suspenseful fiction. <br /> <br />Richard Price and Sally Price have individually and jointly published scholarly works with titles like Stedman's Surinam: Life in an Eighteenth Century Slave Society, The Guiana Maroons, Primitive Art in Civilized Places, and Saramaka Social Structure.  According to the book cover, they divide their time between rural Martinique and the College of William and Mary in Virginia. <br /> <br />In this short novel two anthropologists are asked to appraise a remarkable set of museum quality Saramakan musical instruments that are offered for sale. In following their investigations we readers learn about art smuggling, art renovation, and art forgery, and gradually discover that the ethical distinction between original and forged art can become quite blurred. <br /> <br />Enigma Variations is an exceptional book that defines an entirely new genre. I highly recommend this fascinating work. <br /> <br />Curiosity:  This soft cover publication by Harvard University Press is printed on high quality, vanilla colored paper. The pages were bound backward in my discounted copy.	2004-07-28
US	49618395	R3AULZU6SYKPN4	0806515082	910155179	The Science Fiction Stories of Rudyard Kipling	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Little Known Science Fiction from Rudyard Kipling	Rudyard Kipling? Science fiction? Yes, Kipling did write science fiction. These nine stories can be classed as SF, although some tales clearly span more than one literary genre. (For example, I recently encountered the unusual tale - .007 - in Short Lines, an anthology of classic American railroad stories.)       John Brunner, the compiler and editor, claims that Rudyard Kipling has had more influence on the development of science fiction than either Jules Verne or H. G. Wells. There may be a little hyperbole here, but nonetheless these stories should appeal to readers interested in the roots of modern science fiction. Brunner's introduction to each story is quite helpful.      Rudyard Kipling was an astoundingly popular and prolific author that received the Nobel Prize for Literature in 1907. This collection includes A Matter of Fact (1893), The Ship That Found Herself (1898), .007 (1898), Wireless (1904), With the Night Mail (1909), As Easy as A.B.C. (1917), In the Same Boat (1917), The Eye of Allah (1926), and Unprofessional (1932).      I especially enjoyed Wireless, a tale involving an experimental technology, wireless telegraphy - Morse code transmission without any connecting wires. Kipling interweaves two stories, his enthusiastic account of this pre-radio technology as well as a mysterious transmission across time and space. (Kipling assumes the reader has some familiarity with Keats' narrative poem The Eve of St. Agnes.)      Kipling was fascinated with the rapid advance of transportation technology, especially the modern steam ship and steam locomotive. Two stories - The Ship That Found Herself and .007 - invest machines with some level of intelligence and we readers observe the world from a machine's perspective.      In the two related stories With the Night Mail (setting 2000 A.D.), and As Easy as A.B.C. (August 26, 2065 A.D.) Kipling describes a future world in surprising detail and accuracy, and yet with some surprising oversights. Kipling foresaw great advances in mechanical technology, but he missed corresponding advances in medicine. As Easy as A.B.C. was undoubtedly his most disturbing projection - a world in which democracy was equated with mob rule and greatly feared.      In the tale A Matter of Fact three journalists share in an astounding discovery, so remarkable that their stories are not accepted as fact by any reputable newspaper. The suspenseful story, In the Same Boat, explores the possibility of prenatal influences on later severe psychological disturbances.           The Eye of Allah is a brilliant example of alternative history, or to be more precise, an alternative history that almost occurred. Kipling explores the concept of a biological clock and circadian rhythms (neither term had yet been invented) in the final entry titled Unprofessional.	2004-07-25
US	49618395	R1N9SOH0YQ08WB	0451526392	435933519	Carmilla and Other Tales of Mystery: And 12 Other Classic Tales of Mystery	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Classic Horror Tales by J. Sheridan Le Fanu	J. Sheridan Le Fanu is a master of ghost and horror stories. His style is gothic. The protagonist might be a young woman without family and friends. The setting is lonely and isolated, often a decaying manor or castle. A growing sense of malice and evil emerges as the story unfolds. Le Fanu was able to transform this trite formula into remarkably suspenseful stories that haunt the reader long afterwards. All thirteen tales in this collection are enjoyable on many levels: suspenseful horror, well-crafted plots, and interesting characterizations.<br />Le Fanu's novels are noted for their leisurely pace, for their wordy and discursive style. His short stories are tighter, but still reflect Le Fanu's care in developing the setting and the atmosphere. I enjoy Le Fanu's antiquated style; it somehow adds verisimilitude to the accounts. <br />The Evil Guest, the longest story in this collection, is quite successful as a suspenseful mystery, but what makes it memorable is Le Fanu's description of one man's descent into evil and eventual insanity. <br />The Murdered Cousin is a traditional gothic story in which a young woman is entrusted to the care of an evil uncle. Le Fanu later expanded this tale into his most popular novel, Uncle Silas. <br />Schalken the Painter, Green Tea, Mr. Justice Harbottle, and Sir Dominick's Bargain are among his most admired stories and are frequently encountered in anthologies. Although superficially they share a common theme about demonic visitations, all four tales offer unique, imaginative aspects that make them classics.  I find Schalken the Painter and Green Tea to be especially frightening. Mr. Justice Harbottle is a story of demonic retribution, retribution fully deserved. Sir Dominick's Bargain is a conventional tale of a pact with the devil, but one with an unexpected twist.<br />The title story Carmilla (1871) is ranked among the classic vampire stories, along with John Polidori's The Vampyre (1819) and Bram Stoker's Dracula (1897). The relationship between the heroine and the female vampire is surprisingly complex, adding a dimension not found in most gothic characterizations.<br />Other stories in this collection include Ultor De Lacy, Wicked Captain Walshawe of Wauling, The White Cat of Drumgunniol, Madam Crowl's Ghost, Dickon the Devil, and Laura Silver Bell.<br />I reviewed a paperback edition (1996) published by Signet Classic. This inexpensive edition (446 pages) is a bargain.	2004-07-18
US	49618395	R2IE272ZRMOKCU	0802063675	571816785	The Carolingian Empire (MART: The Medieval Academy Reprints for Teaching)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Provocative Analysis of the Reign of Charles the Great	The reign of Charles the Great is conventionally described as a brief flash of light in a dark age, one whose embers made succeeding periods less gloomy and laid the foundation for the eventual rise of Europe. In his text titled The Carolingian Empire Heinrich Fichtenau argues that historians have been bedazzled by the legendary Charles the Great and that a richer, truer understanding will emerge if more attention is focused on the disappointing aspects of the Carolingian period. <br />Fichtenau further states that it is a mistake to attribute the rapid unraveling of the Frankish empire primarily to the incompetence of Charles' successor, Louis the Pious. During his reign, Charles the Great repeatedly addressed  the disruptive internal forces within his hastily created empire through temporary measures of political expediency.  Likewise, although Charles the Great was able to compel his subject to observe the formalities of Christianity, the ruling class, and even the clergy itself, was only marginally influenced by the spiritual and ethical aspects of Christianity. Throughout his reign the ruling class was characterized by excessive self-interest, greed, and ruthlessness.<br />Fichtenau refines Einhard's famous depiction of Charlemagne by incorporating the writings of the palace scholar Alcuin as well as a more controversial source, the monk of St. Gall. The translator, Peter Munz, explains that while some might consider Professor Fichtenau's approach to be less precise and less cautious than typical academic studies of the Carolingian period, it is precisely for Fichtenau's thoughtful and provocative analysis that this work was selected as a Medieval Academy Reprint for Teaching.<br />Professor Fichtenau has created a fascinating overview of the social, economic, political, and religious problems that faced Charles the Great. The Carolingian Empire should appeal to all readers with an interest in the Medieval period.	2004-07-11
US	49618395	RJQGIDTLZGLKG	0813518369	254551263	Ideas in Chemistry: A History of the Science	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Changing Role and Nature of Chemistry	David Knight teaches the history of science at the University of Durham, England. In this book, Ideas in Chemistry (Rutgers University Press), Knight describes the changing nature of chemistry from the Renaissance to the present. We readers meet only a few chemical expressions and notations. (This is not a history of the classic experiments that shaped the development of chemistry.)  Nonetheless, I suspect that few general readers unfamiliar with chemistry will remain engaged. Ideas in Chemistry will primarily interest students and teachers of chemistry, chemists, and other scientists.<br /><br />This is the story of how chemistry has changed from an occult science to an independent, experimental science and finally to a supporting role to medicine, pharmacology, biology, geology, mineralogy, archeology, and other disciplines. Knight explores how early attempts to explain the findings of chemical experimentation through the mechanical models of Newtonian physics were less than satisfactory and for a period chemistry flourished as an independent, experimental science.  But with the development of quantum theory (and quantum chemistry), physics emerged as the fundamental physical science. Chemistry today remains an empirical science, but its foundations are now rooted in physics.<br />The last four chapters are titled A Descriptive Classifying Science, A Teachable Science, A Reduced Science, and A Service Science. They explore the pervasive supporting role that chemistry plays today.	2004-07-11
US	49618395	R3MKA7QSM1RPLA	0312140460	227901630	Short Lines: A Collection of Classic American Railroad Stories	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Railroad Stories - A Forgotten Literary Genre	For nearly a century the steam locomotive symbolized American progress and adventure. By about 1950 personal travel by automobiles and commercial planes had displaced the venerable locomotive. The romance and adventure of the railroad is now history. The once widely popular literary genre - the railroad story - is seldom encountered today.<br />Short Lines: A Collection of Classic American Railroad Stories (1897 - 1941) is a fascinating historical portrait of America.  Rob Johnson's anthology introduces today's readers to the best writers of railroad fiction, authors like Bedwell, Welch, Cohen, Spearman, Warman, Packard, and Somerville. Others in this collection were penned by their more famous contemporaries, including O. Henry, Thomas Wolfe, Frank Norris, Jack London, Christopher Morley, Rudyard Kipling, and Owen Wister.<br />These enjoyable stories span a wide range of styles and topics. O. Henry details the methodology of holding up a train, based on his actual friendship with a former train bandit. Harry Bedwell's story Smart Boomer is based on his own youthful experience as a railroad telegraph operator (a boomer). The Far and the Near by Thomas Wolfe is a poignant story of a retired engineer.<br />I especially enjoyed Douglas Welch's hilarious story Mrs. Union Station. The excerpt from the Frank Norris novel The Octopus offers a sobering example of the excessive economic power exercised by some railroads. A Toot for a Toot (1928) by Octavus Cohen is a sympathetic look at a black railroad porter named Epic Peters.<br />Frank Spearman, the author of The Nerve of Foley, was perhaps the best writer of railroad stories. The background to this tale was a rough and tumble railroad strike.  The Locomotive That Lost Herself by Cy Warman has supernatural overtones. Hoboes That Pass in the Night is a first person narrative by Jack London.<br />Christopher Morley's The Railway Guide uniquely describes the multitude of passenger rail routes crisscrossing America in the 1930s.  The Night Operator (Frank Packard) and Wide Open Throttle (A. W. Somerville) are classic railroad adventure tales. Rudyard Kipling's unusual story, titled .007,  describes the personal adventures of a new locomotive assigned to a switchyard. The last story in this collection, Stanwick's Business by Owen Wister, the famed author of The Virginian, pokes fun at journalists and writers of popular railroad fiction.	2004-07-05
US	49618395	R4YGLLAH9KUEB	0880012099	891425864	Augustus Hare in Italy (Ecco Travels)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Leisurely, Arduous Travel in Italy in Late 1800s	Travel in the 1800s was slow and expensive, and generally limited to the wealthy.  Travel books offered a vicarious alternative, perhaps explaining their immense popularity.  Augustus Hare, the epitome of the sophisticated, urbane traveler, was an especially popular author in the late 1800s.    This guidebook - Augustus Hare in Italy - offers selections from a number of his works including his Cities of Northern Italy, Cities of Central Italy, Days Near Rome, and Cities of Southern Italy and Sicily.    Today, Hare's outdated travel tips are simultaneously insightful, entertaining, and humorous. We learn that the San Antonio inn in Bassano is tolerable, but overrun with black beetles. In Siena the Armi d'Inghilterra is a very poor Italian inn, but it is managed by civil people. The sights of Cervetri must be visited in time to catch the evening train to Rome, \\"for the only inn at Cervetri is so utterly wretched, it would scarcely be possible to spend the night there.\\"    We pass through some largely uninhabited areas (like Volci) only in the daytime as malaria was prevalence. Large, smoky bonfires were maintained to fight the mosquitoes, but with little success. For exploring more remote areas Hare instructs the traveler on proper rates for renting mules and donkeys.    The descriptions are concise, ranging from a single paragraph to a page or two.  Architecture is Hare's passion: Etruscan, Greek, Roman, early Christian, Saracen, Medieval, and Renaissance.  Also, he enjoys quoting other travelers, ancient and contemporary, like Pliny, Aeneas Sylvius, Ruffini, J. A. Symonds, Forsyth, Ruskin, and E. Bulwer Lytton.     Every page contains one or two illustrations from original wood engravings created by Augustus Hare himself. The editor, Gavin Henderson, carefully matched selections from Hare's extensive writings to each illustration.    The descriptions begin in the north at locations like San Remo, Lampedusa, Turin, Milan, and Mantua, then zigzags southward to Rome, and finally ends in Sicily. The index map of Italy was very helpful, particularly for the more remote sites.    As you read, I suggest that you try to imagine yourself following in Hare's footsteps, not on a tight schedule but simply strolling along, always finding time to stop to make sketches and drawings. Pleasant journeys!	2004-07-04
US	49618395	R3IYCX5COLKKG0	1854592688	669423430	The Devil is an Ass (Drama Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Another Entertaining, Mildly Satirical Comedy by Ben Jonson	Ben Jonson's mildly satirical plays abound with unscrupulous characters, con men, and gullible dupes. The Devil is an Ass is no exception. Several subplots involving deceit and trickery are successfully interwoven, creating an enjoyable comedy.<br />Nick Hern Books (London) publishes an extensive set of plays for students, actors, and theatregoers in their Drama Classics series. The Devil is an Ass is available in a small, slender, good quality, soft cover edition.  The introduction by Simon Trussler is quite good.  A short glossary of unfamiliar words is provided, but there are no footnotes.<br />The play begins in Hell. A lesser devil, Pug, desires to demonstrate his value and requests an opportunity to visit London to entrap innocents and ensure their doom. Satan is skeptical. He considers modern 1616 London to be more corrupt and dissolute than Hell itself. Satan reluctantly allows Pug to proceed.  In London Pug animates and then inhabits the corpse of a recently hung thief.<br />Pug renames himself Devil and acquires a position as a servant to Fitzdottrel, an amoral, greedy squire from Norfolk. Almost immediately, both the reader and Devil are amazed to learn that Fitzdottrel is willing to sacrifice his innocent wife's reputation in trade for an expensive cloak for himself. We are amused when Fitzdottrel himself becomes the target of a sophisticated con-man, Merecraft, a specialist (a projector) in developing get-rich schemes that involve monopolies granted by the government of King James. As other interconnected scams emerge, we readers happily observe that the victims are all unscrupulous individuals. The ending is rather different from most plays involving a devil figure.<br />I have also used the Oxford University Press publication titled The Devil is an Ass and Other Plays by Ben Jonson. The introduction by Margaret Jane Kidnie is quite good. Extensive footnotes are provided.<br />The Devil is an Ass was first performed in 1616. It was first printed in 1631. Nearly four centuries later I am posting my review on the Internet.31. Nearly four centuries later I am posting my review on the Internet.	2004-06-30
US	49618395	RGXHX7AK2CEPT	1854593048	163964933	Bartholomew Fair (Drama Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Lively, Humorous Visit to Bartholomew Fair	Ben Jonson's Bartholomew Fair (1614) is zany, much like the classic movie It's A Mad, Mad, Mad World. Respectable gentlemen and ladies of London somewhat unwisely visit the annual Batholomew Fair. Encountering an odd mix of conniving characters, they become embroiled in a maze of  plots, deceits, and disreputable festival activities and are robbed, tricked, mocked, beaten, thrown into stocks, and recruited as prostitutes.<br />I was continuously overwhelmed by the comings and goings of characters of all sorts, almost as though I was being jostled along in a festival crowd. I have now read Bartholomew Fair several times, and yet I still find it necessary to revisit the cast listing as new characters appear.<br />Many characters are aptly named: the attorney John Littlewit, the suitor Winwife, the zealous Judge Overdo, the quarrelsome Tom Quarlous, the satirical Humphrey Wasp, the respectable Grace Wellborn, the madman Trouble-All, and the ballad singer Nightingale. Other names are simply memorable: Joan Trash, Lantern Leatherhead, Ezekiel Edgeworth, Mooncalf, Captain Whit, and Punk Alice. The list goes on.<br />In Jonson's time little concern was given for the setting. Stages were largely empty, with perhaps a simple prop or two. Unexpectedly, Jonson has the second act begin with trades people assembling their stalls and booths on stage. The booths remain on stage throughout the play, helping the audience orient themselves as the action jumps from one spot to another.<br />The Drama Classics series published by Nick Hern Books of London provide affordable, tightly bound, small paperback editions of plays for students, actors, and theatregoers.  The introduction by Colin Counsell to Bartholomew Fair was quite good. It outlines the plot, describes the characters, but avoids academic discussions on interpretational and textual analysis. I like the small, durable Drama Classics editions as they are easy to carry.<br />There is one drawback. A short glossary of difficultwords is provided, but there are no footnotes. For a reader new to Ben Jonson, good footnotes offer substantial help. The lower class dialogue and topical allusions can be puzzling.<br />An inexpensive collection of Ben Jonson's plays is published by Oxford Univ. Press in the World's Classic series with the title The Alchemist and Other Plays.	2004-06-22
US	49618395	RB6RGP9BRICGH	0425141411	138007339	Reflections on the Civil War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Good Introduction to the Civil War - Thoughtful Essays	Reflections on the Civil War was published in 1981, three years after the death of Bruce Catton. John Leekley reworked and restructured audio tapes that he and Catton had been compiling for an oral history into the essays that form the basis for this fascinating book.    For the most part this transformation was successful and achieves a natural narrative style. Reflections on the Civil War should particularly appeal to readers seeking a concise, and yet insightful introduction to the Civil War. This relatively short book, about 250 pages, would be ideal for supplementary reading for advanced high school students or undergraduates.    The essays target five major topics: Lincoln's leadership; life in the army; the war itself - strategy and execution; the Civil War as the first modern war, and There Was a Young Soldier. This last section, the experiences of John Geyser from Pennsylvania in an engineer battalion in the Army of the Potomac, was riveting, and is a remarkable description of soldiering under General McClellan.     John Geyser carefully penned thoughtful sketches of camp life, individual soldiers, and military action. These drawings add substantial value to this work. Geyser's sketches had only recently come available and had not been published previously.    In the 1960s Bruce Catton, winner of the Pulitzer Prize and the National Book Award, helped Americans understand and commemorate the centennial of the Civil War. His books - Mr. Lincoln's Army, Terrible Swift Sword, Gettysburg: the Final Fury, A Stillness at Appomattox, two volumes on Ulysses S. Grant, and others - were widely admired. His writings gave meaning and life to the Civil War in a way unmatched by previous writers.    In recent decades American interest in the Civil War was similarly revitalized by the monumental documentary on the Civil War by Ken Burns and later by the film Gettysburg. Newer studies by outstanding historians like Shelby Foote and James M. McPherson, and Civil War novels like those of Michael and Jeff Shaara, have perhaps unfairly displaced the writings of Bruce Catton.    In my view Bruce Catton's major works compare favorably with Shelby Foote and James McPherson, two authors that I greatly respect.  Reflections on the Civil War is a quick way to become acquainted with this remarkable writer and historian.	2004-06-22
US	49618395	R2FJTDV98SQNRJ	0486207676	303730164	Ghost and Horror Stories of Ambrose Bierce	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Horror Stories by Ambrose Bierce (1842-1913)	Anyone that enjoys a good ghost story will certainly like these tales. In contrast, the author himself, Ambrose Bierce, was apparently unlikable. He was described as vindictive, rancorous, and even malevolent. Nonetheless, his stories remain popular a century later, perhaps proving something profound. <br />Bierce's literary style is occasionally too concise, too factual, possibly reflecting his long years as a journalist in San Francisco in the late 1800s. However, this factual approach sometimes works to Bierce's advantage by lending authenticity to his stories.  <br />These twenty-four tales, titled Ghost and Horror Stories of Ambrose Bierce, offer a wide range of supernatural topics. Bierce's prophetic theme in Moxon's Master, that of man versus machine, remains a staple of modern science fiction today. His handling of The Man and the Snake is surprisingly mature for an early psychological thriller. His classic, The Moonlit Road, tells a ghost story from three perspectives, including that of the dead victim. Unless my memory fails me, Bierce's startling story An Occurrence at Owl Creek Bridge was vividly portrayed years ago on the Twilight Zone. Other favorites include The Death of Halpin Frayser, The Eyes of the Panther, and The Middle Toe of the Right Foot.<br />Three stories - The Ways of Ghosts, Some Haunted Houses, and Mysterious Disappearances - are in themselves collections of short tales, reported from a journalistic perspective. The cumulative effect of these short accounts adds credence to them. One's skepticism begins to fade. <br />Despite Bierce's rather unpleasant disposition, a sense of humor surfaces in some stories.  A Jug of Syrup, The Haunted Valley, A Watcher by the Dead, and the section titles in The Damned Thing are examples of Bierce's sometimes misplaced humor.<br />Other accounts like The Secret of Macarger's Gulch, The Night Doing's at Deadman's, and Beyond the Wall are more conventional ghost stories, albeit with a little flavoring from Bierce.  The final entry, Visions of the Night, recounts particularly vivid nightmares remembered by Ambrose Bierce himself.<br />The solid introduction by E. F. Bleiler provides a fascinating biographical sketch of the irascible Ambrose Bierce and examines the characteristics of Bierce's unique style. This Dover collection was first published in 1964 and remains in print.<br />Don't confuse this larger collection with a shorter Dover edition titled The Moonlit Road and Other Ghost and Horror Stories by Ambrose Bierce.  The short Thrift Edition contains only twelve stories. All twelve are quite good; however, nine of the stories are found in the larger Dover edition reviewed above.	2004-06-21
US	49618395	R1YPJAGEX0BXBS	1566194407	675970766	The Complete Poems Edgar Allan Poe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Poetry, but No Introduction, Footnotes or Commentary	The Raven, Annabel Lee, Eldorado, The City in the Sea, and The Bells are commonly found in anthologies, but much of Poe's poetry is not widely read today. I enjoyed this inexpensive introduction (published by Barnes and Noble Books) to Poe's poetry, but I was disappointed by the absence of an introduction, footnotes, and commentary. The poems are apparently arranged chronologically from 1827 to 1840; Poe's best known poems are in the latter half.<br /><br />Poe's best poetry is marked by creativity and innovation, sometimes unexpectedly transitioning from a theme of love and beauty to one of despair and death. I consider The City in the Sea, The Sleeper, The Valley of the Unrest, The Haunted Palace, The Conqueror Worm, For Annie, and Annabel Lee to be among the best examples of Poe's imaginative, haunting descriptions of death and dying.<br /><br />Poe's early poetry, and some of his later works, are reminiscent of English romantic poetry.  At his own expense Poe printed his first book, Tamerlane and Other Poems (1827). Poe's style in these earliest poems - Tamerlane, Song, Dreams, Spirits of the Dead, Evening Star, A Dream Within a Dream, Stanzas, A Dream, The Happiest Day --- The Happiest Hour, and The Lake - is characterized by lyrical descriptions, flowery language, and romantic themes.<br /><br />I enjoyed the long poem Tamerlane. Tamerlane (or Tamburlaine, or Timur), a Tartar warrior of the fourteenth century, had amassed an immense empire, and was now reflecting on a distant, but not forgotten, youthful love. Following legend, Poe supposes that Tamerlane was born a lowly peasant, but it is more likely that he was descendant of the famous Khans. (In 1996 the newly independent Uzbekistan celebrated the 660th anniversary of the birth of Timur Khan.)<br /><br />As in The Raven, Poe often employed refrains in later poems. We see Poe experimenting with this poetic technique in one of his earliest efforts, the lyrical poem titled Song. Spirits of the Dead is a contemplative look at death, not a poem of terror. A Dream Within a Dream questions reality itself.<br /><br />I had more difficulty with the lengthy, early poem Al Aaraaf. This romantic fantasy portrays a visitation from a distant world \\"near four bright suns\\" to our lovely Earth, the home of the \\"Idea of Beauty\\".<br /><br />Two poems, An Enigma and A Valentine, challenge the reader to uncover hidden names within the poetry itself. (They reminded me of Poe's secret code in his mystery The Gold Bug.) I have yet to unravel either riddle.poem of terror. A Dream Within a Dream questions reality itself.     I had more difficulty with the lengthy, early poem Al Aaraaf. This romantic fantasy portrays a visitation from a distant world \\"near four bright suns\\" to our lovely Earth, the home of the \\"Idea of Beauty\\".     Two poems, An Enigma and A Valentine, challenge the reader to uncover hidden names within the poetry itself. (They reminded me of Poe's secret code in his mystery The Gold Bug.) I have yet to unravel either riddle.	2004-06-14
US	49618395	ROOE2WSPLG0SE	0670367559	810498461	Henry James	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Successful Mix of Biography, Literary Review, and Historical Photographs	I was pleasantly surprised by this short, illustrated biography titled Henry James. My interest was maintained throughout, and I have subsequently begun reading again some novels by James. The life of Henry James is particularly well-documented as his extended family corresponded regularly and they all carefully preserved their letters.    Henry James was seemingly acquainted with nearly all noted writers of his period. Although they were two very different writers, Henry James and Robert Louis Stevenson greatly admired each other's works and were long time friends.  James found Gustave Flaubert to be \\"simple, honest, kindly, and touchingly inarticulate\\". Henry James retained a lifelong admiration of Ivan Turgenev. Other friends included Stephen Crane, Joseph Conrad, and especially Edith Wharton.    I enjoyed the descriptive text, but it is really the photographs that make this biography so fascinating. Drawing upon a rich set of contemporary photos, the author, Harry Thornton Moore, paints a vivid portrait of the nineteenth century. It is as though we are seeing America and Europe through the eyes of Henry James himself.    The appendix includes a descriptive list of about 120 illustrations and photos, and provides a useful index that locates various references within the text to many literary works by James. I recommend this short, illustrated biography as a fascinating introduction to Henry James and his literary world.	2004-06-14
US	49618395	R3RLNTI31D1V5X	0812545389	65019399	Thunder City (Detroit Crime Series #7)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Blends History, Rich Characterizations, and Suspenseful Plot	In the early 1900s Detroit was home to the emerging automobile industry. Few were sure whether the noisy, unreliable mechanical carriages were simply a fad, or whether they were something more profound. Fortunately, much like Silicon Valley in the 1980s, there was a critical mass of young confident, competitive technologists that believed that they would transform the world. And in a single decade they did so.    Thunder City is a fascinating historical novel. The plot is well-crafted and I found it difficult to set it aside even for short periods. One chapter quickly leads to another.    Within a few pages I was captivated by Loren Estleman's portrait of James Aloysius Dolan, Big Jimmy Dolan, the most powerful political boss in Detroit. Other equally fascinating characterizations follow: Abner Crownover (the famous manufacturer of carriages), the aggressive, twice failed Henry Ford, the explosive Dodge brothers, and the self-made Sal Borneo, a visionary Italian mobster.    This diverse cast is held together by Harlan Crownover, a lesser son of the respected Abner Crownover, as he attempts to raise money, against his father's wishes, to invest in Henry Ford's third attempt to launch an automobile company.    Thunder City is the most recent novel (and the last) in Loren Estleman's popular Detroit series. Chronologically (1900-1910), it is the earliest in the series. Whiskey River (1928-1939), Jitterbug (1943), Edsel (1951-1959), Motown (1966), Stress(1973), and King of the Corner (1990) complete the series.	2004-06-01
US	49618395	R2C7H0B9MUF3E6	0060390913	666596341	The Politics of Paradise: A Vindication of Byron	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Poetry and Politics Converge in this Biographical Study	Michael Foot is a liberal English politician respected for his wide literary knowledge. In The Politics of Paradise, a Vindication of Byron, he contends that Lord Byron, chastised by his contemporaries for his scandalous personal behavior and his unrelenting antagonism to religion, has been unfairly judged by history. Making extensive use of Byron's letters and poetry, Foot argues that Byron's commitment to the principles of liberty as espoused in the French Revolution never wavered.    Foot deliberately avoids much discussion of Byron's notorious love affairs, his alleged incest with his sister Augusta, and his disastrous marriage and separation from Annabella Milbanke. Foot is more interested in the way Byron continued to weave his political thinking into his poetry, despite all the distractions resulting from his notoriety.    As did many English liberals, Byron enthusiastically supported the French revolution, and Napoleon's rise to power. Byron eventually accepted that Napoleon had betrayed the French revolution and later wrote of Napoleon's defeat: \\"so perish all, who would men by man enthral\\". However, Byron always insisted that the misdeeds of the Revolution should not condemn the Revolution itself.    Foot devotes the lengthy first chapter to a liberal contemporary of Byron, the remarkable critic William Hazlitt. Foot begins by saying of himself: \\"William Hazlitt was my guide. No would-be reader and writer, no democratic socialist could wish for a better one.\\"  Nonetheless, the influential Hazlitt was a severe critic of Lord Byron.  He accused Byron of a preposterous liberalism and affectation, and of being a liberal that had maintained his aristocratic privileges of peerage.    Michael Foot cogently addresses Hazzlitt's criticisms, providing what appears to be a solid, convincing vindication of Byron. And yet, midway through The Politics of Paradise, I began to question whether Foot's narrow focus on Byron's political thought was perhaps too one-dimensional. Were the selections from Byron's extensive poetry and letters too selective?  Was the complex and contradictory Lord Byron actually so steadfast in his political beliefs?  Did Byron's contemporaries, including other poets, really misjudge his character to such a large degree?    I do not have satisfactory answers to my questions. Michael Foot may indeed have provided what will be considered a lasting vindication of Lord Byron. I suspect, however, that the prudent reader would benefit from also examining other reviews and characterizations of Lord Byron. Regardless, thanks to Michael Foot, I will now approach Byron's poetry and political thought with a deeper insight and understanding.	2004-05-29
US	49618395	R2A54FCUHU8AZD	0471862568	707241390	Thermodynamics and an Introduction to Thermostatistics	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Insightful Postulational Approach to Thermodynamics	Why did I buy an older thermodynamics text, one first published in 1960? I trusted the advice of earlier reviewers.    They say: 1) The best treatment of classical thermodynamics that I have seen. The chapters on phase transitions are excellent and the mechanical model used to illustrate critical phenomena is brilliant. 2) It is far better than most books on the subject. 3) I think this book has no competition as a text in thermodynamics. It is the ideal preparation for a book like Landau's Statistical Physics. 4) The overview of the fundamentals of thermodynamics is without rival. 5) I think this book is a great option if you feel disappointed with the standard treatment of thermodynamics.    A few reviewers argued that Callen's text was less suitable for engineering students (too few heat-mechanical energy conversion problems) and chemical engineers (too few chemical mixture problems).    My trust was not misplaced. Thermodynamics, an Introduction to the Physical Theories of Equilibrium Thermostatics and Irreversible Thermodynamics, is an exceptional text. I give it five stars.    H. B. Callen offers a fascinating and insightful postulational approach to thermodynamics rather than the conventional inductive approach. He targets first year graduate students and advanced undergraduates. Based on my experience any reader reasonably proficient with thermodynamics should find Callen's approach quite stimulating.    The text has three primary sections: General Principles of Classical Thermodynamics (200 pages), Representative Applications (65 pages), and Fluctuations and Irreversible Thermodynamics (50 pages). A 50-page appendix offers a useful review of pertinent mathematics and other relevant topics. Answers are not provided to the chapter problems.    Interspersed throughout are brief chapters that review useful mathematical techniques. I appreciated the discussions of the Euler equation, the Legendre transformations, the extremum principle in the Legendre transformed representations, and the Maxwell relations (not the Maxwell EM equations). Callen provides useful tools like a thermodynamic mnemonic diagram (first introduced by Max Born) and associated procedures for reducing the formal manipulation of partial derivates to \\"a simple recipe\\".     Callen's text has been widely used. I reviewed the 1960 first edition, eighteenth printing. A second edition published in 1984 is easier to find and is often used today as a supplementary text.    Thanks again for the advice from previous reviewers.	2004-05-19
US	49618395	RBP7OLNRUYDJX	0812000390	300234092	Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (Selected): An Interlinear Translation	Books	4	64	65	N	N	An Inexpensive Aid to Mastering Chaucer's Middle English	Chaucer's Canterbury Tales, published by Barron's Educational Series, uses an interlinear translation format in which each line of Middle English is followed by a modern translation (in a literal form to make the comparison easier). I like this approach.<br />Sometimes Middle English is recognizable. This line describing the knight - Ful worthy was he in his lord's werre - is readily understood if you recognize that werre is war.<br />Contrastingly, this sentence about the prioress is less clear: And sikerly she was of greet disport. Or in modern usage: And indeed she was very diverting.<br />I initially used a 1948, yellowed first edition with 448 pages, but more recently I found a copy of the &quot;new enlarged edition&quot; with 530 pages. This 1970 edition is no longer new, but copies can still be found with little trouble. It has been reprinted many times; my copy is the fourteenth printing.<br />Both editions include The Prologue, The Knight's Tale, The Prioress's Prologue, The Prioress's Invocation, The Prioress's Tale, The Nun's Priest's Prologue, The Nun's Priest's Tale, The Nun's Priest's Epilogue, The Pardoner's Prologue, The Pardoner's Tale, The Wife of Bath's Prologue, The Wife of Bath's Tale, The Franklin's Prologue, and The Franklin's Tale. <br />The new enlarged edition includes four more sections: The Miller's Prologue, The Miller's Tale, The Reeve's Prologue, and The Reeve's Tale.<br />Both editions offer a short introduction and a short section of notes. The translator is Vincent F. Hopper.	2004-05-15
US	49618395	R1LYY3793PRZKC	0714507636	771990439	Sleuth: A Play (Playscript, 46)	Books	4	13	13	N	N	A Deadly Serious Game in Two Acts	The middle aged Andrew Wyke, a successful author of English country house murder mysteries, is an obsessive player of games, games of deductive logic, inductive logic, semantics, mathematics, hypnosis, and prestidigitation. Milo Tindle, the young lover of Andrew's wife Marguerite, has cautiously accepted an invitation by Andrew to his house.<br />Anthony Shaffer's play Sleuth opened to rave reviews in London in February, 1970, with Anthony Quayle and Keith Baxter in the lead roles. In the film production by Palomar Pictures Production and Twentieth Century Fox the roles of Andrew Wyke and Milo Tindle were played by Laurence Olivier and Michael Caine.<br />Sleuth makes fascinating reading on several levels. The setting, an English country home, initially suggests a predictable English mystery. However, despite some elements of humor, the disguised rivalry between Wyke and Tindle gradually develops overtones of a psychological thriller. Like Tindle, the reader is uncertain whether Wyke is simply playing a game, or whether he has more serious intentions. Obsessive game playing and make believe appear to be metamorphosing into a dangerous reality, but who is the victim?  The plot is highly unpredictable and it would be inappropriate to say more. <br />The dialogue is fast paced and witty. Sleuth is entertaining, suspenseful, and great fun.	2004-05-15
US	49618395	R18DSLKCS5ZS1F	0300015127	626870751	Ben Jonson's Every Man in His Humor (Ben Jonson Series: No. 5)	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Challenging Reading, But Enjoyable - Comes in Two Versions	Every Man in His Humor was one of Ben Jonson's earliest plays. Although it is a somewhat obscure work today, remarkably, when first performed in 1598 by the Lord Chamberlain's Men, the cast included Shakespeare, Burbage, and Kemp.    The term humor, derived from Latin word for fluid, refers to a Medieval and Renaissance medical theory that a man's health and personality were due to the balance (or imbalance) of four fluids, or humors: blood, phlegm, yellow bile (choler), and black bile (melancholy). The Elizabethan audience would have recognized that Jonson's characters were caricatures of various temperaments and personalities.    Jonson later significantly revised this play. The original 1601 quarto had a Florentine setting and Italian names. His revision, the 1616 folio version, substitutes a London setting with English characters. In my discussion below, I have noted the 1616 English characters using parenthesis.    Every Man in His Humour was more challenging than I expected. I was into Act 2 before I began to appreciate the interplay between the characters.  For me the turning point occurred when the servant Mosca (weirdly named Brainworm in the London version) disguised himself as a penniless soldier looking for charity. I gradually recognized four intertwined themes:    1) Two young, high-spirited gentlemen, Lorenzo Junior (Edward Kno'well) and Prospero (Wellbred), deliberately encourage the foolish antics of other characters, quietly laughing at them in frequent asides.    2) Meanwhile,  Lorenzo Senior (Kno'well) worries that his son is mixing with less reputable acquaintances.     3) Mosca (Brainworm) independently embarks on several zany ventures, all involving disguises, to assure that Lorenzo Junior (Edward Kno'well) is beholden to him.     4) And lastly, the merchant Thorello (Thomas Kitely) mistakenly convinces himself that his wife Biancha (Dame Kitely) and his sister Hesperida (Mistress Budget) are being wooed by the foolish mix of characters that has descended upon his home. (Shakespeare may have derived the name Othello from Jonson's jealous Thorello.)    I had difficulty keeping track of the numerous characters that wandered on and off the stage, reminding me of my first reading of Bartholomew Fair, a Jonson play with an even larger cast. The dialogue ranges  from scholarly quotes in Latin to lower class slang. I found the footnotes to be helpful.    Both the original 1601 play and Jonson's revised 1616 version make good reading. I had the good fortune to find a copy of a parallel text edition (Regents Renaissance Drama series by University of Nebraska Press) of the 1601 quarto and the 1616 folio of Every Man In His Humour.     One last comment: Is it Humor or Humour?  It makes a difference when conducting a title search.	2004-05-11
US	49618395	R3M1C29D2M5PHL	0719016371	17768966	Poetaster: Ben Jonson (Revels Plays MUP)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Ovid, Virgil, Horace and Two Inept Poets	Poetaster - one of Ben Jonson's earliest plays - was first staged in 1601, the same year as Hamlet. A poetaster is a trivial rhymester, a writer of doggerel, at best an inferior poet. A poetaster is pretentious, and places undue value on his own work. Apparently, the first occurrence of this term is in this play. <br /> <br />Ben Jonson was an exuberant individual that was often in trouble, with perhaps the most public example being the so-called War of the Theatres (1599-1601). Somehow he had managed to become entangled in an acrimonious exchange with two rival playwrights, John Marston and Thomas Dekker, and this satirical play, Poetaster, was a return volley from Jonson. Despite its setting in ancient Rome, the audience quickly recognized that the two rather mean-spirited, envious, inept poets, Crispinus and Demetrius, represented Marston and Dekker.  <br /> <br />Poetaster is less scholarly than some of Jonson's plays, and consequently is easier going, but good footnotes are still to be valued. Although Jonson's ridicule of Crispinus and Demetrius comprises a significant number of scenes, this play is more about the Roman poets Ovid, Virgil, and Horace and their relationship with governmental authority.  <br /> <br />Contrary to his father's urgings that he study law, Ovid pursues poetry; Ovid evens transcribes his law notes into poetry. Ovid loves and is loved by Julia, the only daughter of Emperor Augustus Caesar. Ovid has great talent, but exercises poor judgment leading to conflict with the Augustus himself.  <br /> <br />Virgil, a commoner by birth, is a favorite of Augustus. The emperor seats Virgil by his side and asks him to read from the Aeneid. In contrast to Ovid, Virgil symbolizes the unity of poetry with the state.  <br /> <br />Horace is a younger, less-experienced poet that has become the innocent victim of envy and libel by Crispinus and Demetrius. Vindicated by Roman law, Horace is allowed to select an appropriate punishment. Horace's (that is,Jonson's) punishment for Crispinus (that is, Marston) is memorable.  <br /> <br />If you are new to Jonson, I suggest beginning with his better known comedies like The Alchemist and Volpone. But don't neglect his lesser known plays. Poetaster is quite good, and it is interesting for its insight on the Elizabethan theatre.	2004-05-09
US	49618395	R3HMT0M5KTEEPE	0195084993	296898843	Hardboiled: An Anthology of American Crime Stories	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Another Good Anthology from Oxford University Press	Hard-Boiled American crime fiction is Dashiell Hammett, James M. Cain, Raymond Chandler, John D. MacDonald, Ross Macdonald, Mickey Spillane, and many less familiar authors. The hard-boiled American crime fiction never really took root in Great Britain. Sam Spade was popular on the screen, but less so in the London bookstore. I was surprised to discover that the prestigious Oxford University Press had published this anthology of American crime fiction.<br />What is hard-boiled crime fiction?  According to the editors Bill Pronzini and Jack Adrian, hard-boiled crime stories deal with disorder, disaffection, and dissatisfaction. The reader encounters a jaundiced view of government, power, and the law. The protagonist, sometimes a woman, is a social misfit, a loner.  Most stories are reflective of their times, windows into history that offer the perspective of individuals that inhabited a particular, often unsavory locale. <br />Some of the stories in this remarkable collection appear in other anthologies, but others are rarely encountered. Pronzini and Adrian have arranged these short stories chronologically, beginning with Hammett's The Scorched Face (1926).<br />Each story is introduced by a thoughtful preface. I gradually developed an understanding and appreciation for this uniquely American genre. Many of these entries qualify as pulp fiction; most are without any literary pedigree. And yet, this collection makes good reading. Entertainment, suspense, riveting characters, and a little cultural history are blended together. I highly recommend this anthology.	2004-05-06
US	49618395	R2W51QGAWVVCK9	0486268756	937975070	The Gold-Bug and Other Tales (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Nine Great Tales by the Master of the Macabre	America was a young country; its age was measured in decades. America had few established colleges and had produced few writers, artists, and musicians. It is ironic that Edgar Allan Poe (1809-1849), living in poverty and suffering from alcohol and opium abuse, would be one of America's greatest writers, and one of the key creators of two genre of fiction - the deductive mystery and the horror story.    This inexpensive Dover Thrift edition - The Gold Bug and Other Tales - contains nine unabridged short stories arranged in chronological order. Two are classic mystery stories. Seven are superb horror stories.     The Murders in the Rue Morgue (1841) was not only innovative, but had lasting influence on later writers. Some fifty years later Conan Doyle closely patterned Sherlock Holmes on Poe's amateur detective, Monsieur C. Auguste Dupin, and Dr. Watson on Poe's unnamed narrator that had so much difficulty keeping pace with the brilliant deductions of Dupin. Would we have had Holmes without Dupin?    The Gold-Bug (1843) is the other deductive mystery story in this Dover edition. I still remember reading it for the first time years ago. I was a young, intense entomologist at that time; after reading this intriguing tale, I carefully reinspected every beetle in my collection. I will say nothing about the plot as it is best savored as a surprise.    Six of the horror stories - The Cask Of Amontillado (1846), The Black Cat (1843), The Tell-Tale Heart (1843), The Pit and the Pendulum (1842), The Masque of the Red Death (1842), and The Fall of the House of Usher (1839) - are among Poe's best known tales. They have all been adapted to films, often with considerable license on the part of the screen writer. Ligeia (1838), the earliest story in this collection, may be unfamiliar. These tales are usually told in narrative form, sometimes from the perspective of one not entirely sane.     Many years ago a teacher, Mr. McLeod, loaned me a thick, heavy book containing the complete stories and poetry of Edgar Allan Poe. I read it cover to cover. Poe remains one of my favorite authors.	2004-05-02
US	49618395	R2H4BL7UXBJ6LD	0393955478	20561861	English Romanticism	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Historical and Cultural Basis- English Romanticism 1760-1815	The English Romantic period is conventionally defined as 1760-1815, and spans the reigns of King George III and King George IV, the American War of Independence, the French Revolution, the Napoleonic Wars, and the British Industrial Revolution. My interest was more literary and poetic than historical. I was interested in learning more about the cultural environment that produced poets like Wordsworth, Coleridge, Blake, Shelley, Keats, and Byron.<br />Professor Marilyn Gaull's text, English Romanticism - The Human Context, was more encyclopedia-like than I had expected. I stayed the course for about 100 pages, but I eventually began to skip around, making good use of the extensive index to find topics of my choosing. Nonetheless, I expect that a student of English literature or English history would clearly benefit from Gaull's detailed, scholarly examination of this critical period in English history.<br />Although Great Britain did itself escape civil war during this turbulent time, restrictive laws and legislation only delayed social change. Technological advances, increasing secularization, and growing democratic aspirations were difficult to contain. <br />The Romantic poets championed change, especially the liberal principles espoused during the French Revolution, and they faced continual harassment from both government censors and political opponents. But not all change was equally welcome. These same poets lamented the loss of aristocratic patronage, and their growing dependence on a new, more broadly based reading public. Some poets, like Wordsworth, eventually dismissed this less appreciative public and addressed themselves to posterity.<br />Although I occasionally found Professor Gaull's text to be rather lengthy and detailed, I expect that it will long serve me as a useful reference tool. It is subdivided into short chapters with subsections that make it easy to browse. I recommend her work for both students and general readers interested in English Romanticism.	2004-05-02
US	49618395	RA77ZL5HN008L	0896722910	327962260	All That Matters: The Texas Plains in Photographs and Poems	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Excellent Collection - Warrants Multiple Readings	Man is seemingly insignificant when measured against the extensive plains of Texas. The vast open space combined with an unforgiving climate is overwhelming. However, Walter McDonald paints a different picture with his evocative plains poetry. His final lines in the last poem in this book provide the title for this remarkable collection: \\"where we live, only brown earth and sky and in between, all that matters\\".    I have not lived on the Texas plains, but with a son attending Texas Tech in Lubbock I have traveled frequently across the Texas panhandle. We have driven a hundred back roads stretching across the sparsely settled, eroded flatlands, seeing the occasional windmill, a few scattered cattle, miles of barb wire fencing, and isolated farms and ranches. (And unexpectedly, we also encountered endless miles of trenching to accommodate fiber optics cable.) We have hiked and camped in Palo Duro Canyon and Canyon State Park. We have come to enjoy this vast land and the people that call it home.    Walter McDonald is one of the best poets in America today. This collection warrants reading again and again. Janet Neugebauer, an archivist for the extensive Southwest Collection, worked with McDonald to match historic photos to his perceptive poetry. These haunting photos are housed in a history research center on the campus of Texas Tech.     \\"It is wind, not rain, dry cattle need.\\" I suspect that many urban dwellers, like me, have never realized this truth. McDonald's poetry is clearly regional poetry, and yet it is much more. The landscape of Texas  appears foreign and intimidating to the visitor, and this strangeness could have been the subject of this collection.  The poetry of Walter McDonald, however, focuses on the people that live in this harsh environment, a people that have come to love life on the great plains. This is poetry about people that you will long remember.	2004-04-19
US	49618395	R5S67CD26YAKS	1573926949	887601890	Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science (Great Minds)	Books	4	98	99	N	N	Three Fascinating Works by Werner Heisenberg	Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science (1952) makes good reading, but it is likely to be more appreciated by readers already familiar with the philosophical underpinnings of quantum theory. The scholarly introduction by F. S. C. Northrop of Yale University cautions the reader that a meticulous reading is necessary to follow Werner Heisenberg's discussion of causality, determinism, and complementarity. <br />For the reader new to Heisenberg I suggest first reading a collection of essays published by Seabury Press in 1983 under the title Tradition in Science. In 1989 this collection, now titled Encounters with Einstein And Other Essays on People, Places, and Particles, was republished by Princeton University Press. A few discussions are a bit technical, but they do not involve mathematics. These essays were written between 1972-1975. Heisenberg died in 1976.<br />Another good choice is Philosophical Problems of Quantum Physics, a collection of Heisenberg's early lectures that span the turbulent period 1932-1948. Many of the key ideas discussed in his 1952 book Physics and Philosophy will be found in this earlier work.<br />Heisenberg believed that early Greek philosophy is closer to the ideas underlying modern physics than it was to the deterministic, objective reality defined by Newton. The story of the development of quantum theory is always fascinating, but even more so when told from the viewpoint of a major contributor to this great intellectual triumph. Bohr, Heisenberg, and other founders of the Copenhagen interpretation recognized quite early that quantum theory would have a the profound impact on man's understanding of reality.  <br />All three of these works, Physics and Philosophy, Philosophical Problems of Quantum Physics, and Encounters with Einstein, should appeal to a wide audience. Heisenberg was deeply intrigued with the philosophical implications of quantum physics (and modern particle physics) and enjoyed sharing his enthusiasm andfascination with general audiences. I highly recommend all three works.	2004-04-07
US	49618395	R3BX2MNCRGCL4C	0691024332	470740061	Encounters with Einstein	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Essays from Heisenberg's Later Years, 1972-1975	These essays were first published by Seabury Press in 1983 under the title Tradition in Science. A new edition, titled Encounters with Einstein And Other Essays on People, Places, and Particles, was published in 1989 by Princeton University Press.<br />Throughout his life Werner Heisenberg shared his enthusiasm for physics and philosophy, frequently giving presentations to general audiences. Several essays address the history of quantum physics. Others are more technical and include topics like cosmic radiation, particle physics, and closed-theories in physics. All essays are well-crafted and should be accessible to a wide audience.<br />Heisenberg only met Einstein on a few occasions. The title essay, Encounters with Einstein, describes these encounters, including a final meeting at Princeton a few months before Einstein's death. While he admitted that he had never discussed politics with Einstein, Heisenberg did comment on Einstein's pacifism. Heisenberg does not discuss his own beliefs, nor his role in WWII Germany.<br />At several points in this collection Heisenberg expresses his concerns with the theoretical direction that particle physics was taking in the early 1970s. In his essay &quot;What is an Elementary Particle?&quot;, he expresses his doubts regarding quark theory. It was interesting to see Heisenberg in one essay lamenting Einstein's reluctance to accept quantum theory while elsewhere he himself was having difficulty with quark theory.<br />I highly recommend these essays for any reader wishing to become more acquainted with Heisenberg. Also, as a follow-up I suggest reading Philosophical Problems of Quantum Physics, a collection of Heisenberg's lectures that span 1932-1948. <br />The more persistent reader might be interested in Physics and Philosophy: The Revolution in Modern Science.  This work by Heisenberg is more philosophical and requires careful reading. This volume benefits from a lengthy and scholarly overview by F. S. C. Northrop, SterlingProfessor of Philosophy and Law, Yale University.	2004-04-06
US	49618395	R1LIWV01HB9IRX	0803252811	334217749	The Changeling	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Singularly Successful Collaborative Effort -The Changeling	The editor George Walton Williams considers The Changeling by Thomas Middleton and William Rowley to be a singularly successful collaborative effort. My copy of The Changeling has collected dust on my bookshelf for some years. I was largely unacquainted with Middleton and Rowley and I had assumed that The Changeling was a comedy about &quot;an infant exchanged by fairies for another infant&quot;. I was unprepared for deception, lust, and murder.<br />Middleton and Rowley contributed equal shares to this play. Middleton authored the tragic plot while Rowley created the comic scenes. What makes The Changeling unique is the tight coupling of the comic and tragic story lines.  The two plots occasionally intersect, but more importantly Rowley's comic plot echoes and reinforces Middleton's tragic story.  The Changeling is a well-integrated, entertaining play.<br />Williams explains in his excellent introduction that a &quot;changeling&quot; in the Jacobean period had nothing to do with fairies.  A changeling was a waverer or fickle person, one without a moral compass. The Dramatis Personae indicates that Antonio, a love-struck fellow that imitated a fool to gain admittance to an asylum to become close to the young wife of an older doctor, was the changeling.  And yet, even a cursory reading reveals that the actual changeling was Beatrice, a beautiful young woman that becomes involved in murder and adultery (the order is correct, murder first and adultery later).<br />The Regents Renaissance Drama Series is a great source for the more significant plays of the Elizabethan, Jacobean, and Caroline theater. This series has introduced me to playwrights that would have otherwise remained strangers. The introduction, editing, and footnotes by George Walton Williams for The Changeling are excellent.	2004-03-31
US	49618395	R1879O2J5B9HVV	0883658054	226459978	A Coffin for Dimitrios/Judgement on Deltchev/Passage of Arms: Three Complete Novels in One Volume	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Great Introduction to Eric Ambler at Bargain Price	Regrettably, the novels of Eric Ambler are not always easy to locate. I was pleased to find a used copy of this three-novel collection by Galahad Books. I already owned two titles, and I bought this book simply to acquire the third. For someone new to Ambler, this inexpensive collection - A Coffin for Dimitrios, Judgement on Deltchev, and Passage of Arms - is a great way to become acquainted with a master of espionage fiction. (Possibly I should say &quot;the master&quot;, as Eric Ambler preceded Graham Greene, Len Deighton, and John LeCarre, and they all credit Ambler for his significant influence.)<br />Eric Ambler's early novels date from the late 1930s and early 1940s. A Coffin for Dimitrios (1937) is now considered a classic. Movie buffs might be aware that in 1944 Peter Lorre played the role of Latimer in a popular film version titled The Mask of Dimitrios.   <br />Ambler's writing career was interrupted by his British military service in WWII.  I believe that Judgment on Deltchev (1951) was his first postwar novel. Passage of Arms (1959) was among his later works. <br />Ambler's plots are interesting and unpredictable. The settings are authentic, exotic, and vaguely threatening. But what I actually recall most about each story is a unique character, not always the protagonist, but sometimes someone in a lesser role. For example, in the first three chapters of A Coffin for Dimitrios the enigmatic Colonel Haki dominates the story, serves his role as a critical catalyst for the plot, and then quietly retires into the background.<br />Like Colonel Haki, Girija Krishnan in Passage of Arms is not the lead character, but he is nonetheless absolutely essential to the story. His obsessive desire to purchase a passenger bus results in unpredictable, explosive events. The arms smuggling plot is intriguing and the Southeast Asia setting in the 1950s is exotic. But what I remember most about Passage to Arms is the entrepreneurial Girija Krishnan.<br />Judgment of Deltchevtakes place in the aftermath of WWII as the Soviets tightened their grip on Eastern Europe. Outwardly old legal forms were observed. Witnesses were summoned, evidence presented, and the leaders of opposition parties were condemned. In this historical context Eric Ambler produced his novel Judgment on Deltchev (1951), a story of the fictional trial of Yordan Deltchev.	2004-03-31
US	49618395	R3F18R62HXS410	B00005XKIL	895913885	Judgment on Deltchev	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Eric Ambler - Master of Espionage and Spy Genre	In the aftermath of WWII the Soviets tightened their grip on Eastern Europe. Outwardly legal processes were observed. Witnesses were summoned and evidence was presented before the leaders of opposition parties were condemned. Nikolai Petkov in Bulgaria was hung while Julius Maniu and Ion Mihalache in Romania were condemned to solitary confinement for life. In this historical context Eric Ambler produced his fictional novel Judgment on Deltchev (1951), a story of the trial of Yordan Deltchev. <br />Foster, a successful London playwright, accepted an unexpected job offer to attend the trial and write articles for an American newspaper publisher. Foster was not nave. He expected to have difficulty properly covering Deltchev's sham trial. He rationalized that his inexperience might help him develop a fresh view.<br />Ambler has layers of surprises awaiting Foster. From the beginning Foster dislikes and mistrusts his employer's local representative, a disheveled, smelly man named Georghi Pashik. He is wary of other correspondents. And, of course, he totally disbelieves the government's information minister. He soon finds himself even questioning whether Deltchev the liberal is so innocent after all. We readers become unable to distinguish between the truth and carefully fabricated lies. In this convoluted, complicated plot Ambler illustrates the dangers of preconceived notions.<br />Graham Greene, Len Deighton, and John LeCarre all credit Eric Ambler for his influence on their writings. I highly recommend Judgment on Deltchev. It compares favorably with other Ambler novels like A Coffin for Dimitrios, Passage of Arms, and Journey into Fear. I have yet to encounter an Eric Ambler story that has disappointed me.	2004-03-27
US	49618395	R3IOPBSD93OCHN	0268019371	554190477	Wittgenstein Modern Philosophy	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Excellent Introduction to Wittgenstein - Clear and Concise	Sometimes fortune favors me. Recently I discovered a gem, an intriguing book by an author new to me. Wittgenstein and Modern Philosophy, a 153-page book by the Danish philosopher Justus Hartnack, was an exceptional find.<br />Hartnack writes with clarity. His style is informal, but not verbose. He systematically explores Wittgenstein's key arguments and discusses counter arguments. His helpful footnotes consist mainly of direct quotes from Wittgenstein's Tractatus and from his Philosophical Investigations. Wittgenstein and Modern Philosophy is a superb introduction not only to Wittgenstein, but also to twentieth century analytic philosophy.<br />Hartnack begins by systematically examining the seven propositions advanced by Wittgenstein in his remarkable work titled The Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus. In the following chapter, Tractatus and Logical Positivism, he explores the growth of logical positivism, and it close relationship to (and points of departure from) Wittgenstein's thought.<br />Next, Hartnack discusses Wittgenstein's later work, Philosophical  Investigations, an equally innovative work in which Wittgenstein challenges his own (earlier) thoughts in the Tractatus. The final chapter, Contemporary Philosophical Investigations, outlines more recent work by Gilbert Ryle, Peter Strawson, H. L. A. Hart, and J. O. Urmson.<br />I highly recommend Justus Hartnack's study of Wittgenstein's analysis of the connection between philosophical problems and language. Hartnack's lucid examination of Wittgenstein's philosophy should appeal to a wide range of readers. <br />I reviewed the second edition, 1986, published by University of Notre Dame Press.	2004-03-24
US	49618395	R3D2JGLFSPPWAJ	0486212327	9565547	Three Gothic Novels: The Castle of Otranto, Vathek, The Vampyre	Books	4	32	34	N	N	Early Gothic Novels by Walpole, Beckford, and Polidori	I was new to the Gothic genre when I first encountered this Dover publication some years ago. At that time I considered the plot for The Castle of Otranto (1764) by Horace Walpole to be farfetched, almost ludicrous. The mystical Oriental tale, Vathek (1782), by William Beckford seemed endless. Only the short story titled The Vampyre (1819, by John Polidori) met my expectations.    My opinion today is quite different. I have gradually become familiar with Gothic literature, and I now appreciate just how innovative these three stories were, and to how great an extent these tales influenced later writers. I give four stars to this collection.    The eighteenth century was clearly a period of philosophical and scientific progress.  And yet, many readers were immediately intrigued and entertained by the supernatural, bizarre elements in The Castle of Otranto. Hundreds of authors subsequently imitated Walpole's Gothic style. Although many of these later stories had little literary merit, the Gothic novel remained immensely popular for the following century.    Today, it is true that the supernatural aspects in The Castle of Otranto may be overworked, the dialogue is often stilted, and the plot relies too much on coincidences. Nonetheless, The Castle of Otranto remains quite entertaining and suspenseful. The lengthy introduction by Sir Walter Scott (included in the 1811 edition) illustrates the remarkable impact of \\"this new species of literary composition\\".    William Beckford's Vathek is so original that it hardly fits even the Gothic genre. Beckford, a noted scholar of early Arabian literature, provided more than fifty pages of explanatory end notes. For some reason he first published Vathek in French. Later it was translated and published in English without his approval. I still find Vathek to be overly long, but this time I was intrigued with its mystical Arabian Nights motif, its chilling characters, and its vivid portrayal of evil.    In an introduction to The Vampyre the author John Polidori claimed (possibly to increase sales) that Lord Byron had created the plot at the same literary soiree in Geneva in which Mary Shelley produced Frankenstein. Lord Byron disputed Polidori's claim and produced his own notes from that famous gathering. Regardless, The Vampyre is fascinating short story.    E. F. Bleiler edited this collection and provided a lengthy, interesting introduction to three authors that were instrumental in developing the Gothic novel.	2004-03-20
US	49618395	R2G4V0NYJWKUG6	0803253656	648301863	The London Merchant (Regents Restoration Drama)	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Three stars for a nauseous sermon	The London Merchant has disappeared from the stage with little loss to modern audiences. As an example of Restoration drama, it is occasionally assigned reading for English majors. The critic Charles Lamb described it as a nauseous sermon. <br />Nonetheless, George Lillo's play was a resounding success in London in the summer of 1731 and was apparently performed 179 times by 1776. Its repetitious moral lessons and its laudatory attitude toward commercial trade seemingly resonated with eighteenth century audiences.<br />The London Merchant is based on a popular ballad that recalled a notorious criminal event from the previous century. The honest, young merchant apprentice George Barnwell was captivated by the charms of a calculating, amoral, woman of pleasure, Mrs. Millwood, and was persuaded to embezzle money from his employer. Murder follows.<br />Why should a nauseous sermon rate three stars?  The moralistic tone of The London Merchant clearly dates Lillo's work and would make it difficult to perform today. And yet, possibly this play remains fascinating to read simply because it is so foreign and so different. <br />In talking about love of women, Barnwell says, &quot;My youth and circumstances make such thoughts improper in me yet.&quot; Was such naivete credible?  In facing execution, he calmly reasons: &quot;Thus justice, in compassion to mankind, cuts off a wretch like me, by one such example to secure thousands from future ruin.&quot; We readers are intrigued with this insight into eighteenth century moralistic philosophy.<br />The fifth act is unlike any that I have encountered. It prolongs the story to once again reiterate the moral lessons. The final eleven scenes include a lengthy sermon between Barnwell and his former master Thorowgood, a tearful good-bye between Barnwell and his close friend and fellow apprentice Trueman, a revelation that Maria had long loved him (if only he had only remain honest and moral), and a final visit with the unrepentant Millwood.<br />The introduction and editing by William H. McBurney in the Regents Restoration Drama Series was quite good. The appendix includes an epilogue, a final scene (the execution), The Ballad of George Barnwell, and a chronology of the Restoration period.	2004-03-15
US	49618395	R2ZD6MYA4DA1SI	0815410123	348059355	The Lantern-Bearers and Other Essays	Books	3	21	23	N	N	Late Nineteenth Century Essays - Surprisingly Varied Topics	Following the success of Treasure Island and Dr. Jekyll and Mr. Hyde, magazines competed for essays by Robert Louis Stevenson. In his time Stevenson was widely admired for his fresh observations, clever insights, and friendly humor. Although his novels and short stories remain popular, Stevenson's essays are seldom encountered today.<br />Jeremy Treglown, editor of the London Times Literary Supplement, selected the thirty-three essays included in The Lantern-Bearers and Other Essays and wrote the scholarly introduction.<br />Stevenson's essays are surprisingly varied, both in topic and style. I found some to be less interesting, some to have buried gems, and others to be fascinating throughout. This collection requires a patient reader, one that is willing to let Stevenson occasionally ramble a bit. I would sometimes only appreciate an essay after a second reading.<br />His essays often offer a humorous and sympathetic look at his fellow man. In those about his personal experiences as a child or as an intense young man, he directs his gentle humor at himself. He modestly describes the writing of Treasure Island (as well as his earlier efforts, some twelve attempted novels that Stevenson eventually burned in his fireplace). I enjoyed his account of his diving experience (suited up with an oxygen line) at an engineering site in a desolate bay near the sub-arctic town of Wick. Elsewhere he describes his visit to the small town of Monterey, California in 1880.<br />I especially liked An Apology for Idlers, On Falling in Love, and Letter to a Young Gentleman who Proposes to Embrace the Career of Art, and Crabbed Age and Youth. <br />Stevenson's essay topics were unpredictable. A Studio of Ladies describes a group of young women, art students, painting a man posing as the Dying Gladiator. His insights on Walking Tours, the city of Edinburgh, and the creative mind of Walt Whitman were all quite good. In Thomas Stevenson, Civil Engineer, he paints an absorbing and touchingportrait of his father.<br />The essays of Robert Louis Stevenson make interesting reading.	2004-03-13
US	49618395	R2BAU35I78VF8B	0691026637	56648006	Perfect Form	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fascinating Look at Variational Methods and Applications	For a third or fourth year student in physics this short book, Perfect Form, would be near perfect as either a short overview of variational methods, or as a supplementary text for an advanced classical physics course.<br />I have occasionally encountered variational methods, but until reading Perfect Form I had not appreciated the significance and scope and even fascination of this topic. In a little more than one hundred pages Dr. Don Lemons does a credible job of introducing a wide range of physics problems amenable to variational methods.<br />He begins with optics and Fermat's Principle of Least Time and thereby motivates the derivation of the Euler-Lagrange equation. In later chapters he examines the principle of least potential energy, Lagrange multipliers, the principle of least action, and Hamilton's principle, in both a restricted and more general form. The supplementary problems at the end of each chapter are few in number, but are carefully defined and are more like tutorials than standalone problems. <br />In my experience textbooks dedicated to this topic - like Calculus of Variations by Robert Weinstock and Introduction to the Calculus of Variations by Hans Sagan - are difficult and require considerable mathematical maturity. Other texts - like Advanced Calculus of Several Variables (C. H. Edwards) and Advanced Mathematical Methods for Engineering and Science Students (Stephenson and Radmore) and Mathematics Applied to Continuum Mechanics (L. A. Segel) - often relegate this subject to a single (and often final) chapter.<br />Most undergraduates are unlikely to have time for a formal course in calculus of variations. With this book Don Lemons has convinced me that this topic is too important and too interesting to ignore. I recommend that you acquire a copy of Perfect Form for self-study or as supplementary text.	2004-03-06
US	49618395	R367X0HU47BBO8	014058501X	362446184	Coleridge: Selected Poetry and Prose (Poetry Library, Penguin)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Coleridge - Lofty imagination, wide interests, and poetic genius	This Penguin Poetry Library edition, Coleridge: Selected Poetry and Prose, offers 80 pages of poetry (nearly fifty poems) and 200 pages of prose (letters, notes, lectures, and other writings). My interest was the poetry; I anticipated only skimming the prose. Unexpectedly, I found myself reading nearly every letter, essay, and lecture note in this collection.    The poetry selection is quite good. However, some poems may require multiple readings, but this should not be surprising as Coleridge once wrote, \\"Poetry gives most pleasure when only generally and not perfectly understood.\\"  The selections are arranged chronologically.    Samuel Taylor Coleridge produced nearly all of his best poetry in a two year period, 1797-1798. In 1802 he penned Ode to Dejection, his farewell poem to the Muse of Poetry. Thereafter, he concentrated on literary criticism, as well as political, philosophical, and theological topics.    Coleridge apparently developed a reputation for launching ambitious projects which were seldom completed. For example, in a letter Coleridge says: But if it please the Almighty ... before my thirtieth year I will thoroughly understand the whole of Newton's works. At the present I must content myself with endeavoring to make myself complete master of his easier work, that on Optics.    Elsewhere he outlines a monumental effort to systematically analyze each scene from every play by Shakespeare, as well as plays by other Elizabethan dramatists for comparison purposes. He may not have fully achieved this goal, but Coleridge is still recognized today for his major influence on Shakespearean criticism.    There are gems scattered throughout his writings. In a postscript to a letter he writes: I have this morning been reading a strange publication - poems with very wild and interesting pictures ... printed and painted by the author W. Blake. He is a man of genius, and I apprehend, a Swedenborgian - certainly, a mystic emphatically.    I especially enjoyed his lecture notes on Shakespeare's plays, and his commentary on Spenser, Jonson, Milton, Chaucer, and Swift. His short autobiography was also fascinating.    In her introduction Kathleen Raine writes: \\"There is no major poet who has not also been a man of the highest intelligence, and in consequence, of wide knowledge beyond the frontiers of literature.\\" Coleridge certainly fits her description.    This collection was first published in 1957 and has been reprinted many times. My copy is the eleventh printing. Used copies should be widely available.	2004-02-27
US	49618395	RY7Y70I14O762	0300089147	495725817	The Birth of Time: How Astronomers Measured the Age of the Universe	Books	3	12	14	N	N	Measuring the Age and Size of the Universe	Questions about the age of the universe are tightly coupled to understanding the size and structure of the universe. John Gribbin, a research astronomer as well as a popular writer, tells the story of how astronomers and physicists gradually recognized that the universe was both very large and very old.<br />We all know today that the universe is immense, that the Milky Way is one of many galaxies, the age of the universe is measured in billions of years, and it began with a big bang. This fundamental understanding is actually quite new. In 1920 the scientific community was deeply divided over whether the Milky Way was essentially the entire universe or whether other large galaxies existed. The age of the universe was significantly underestimated. The Big Bang Theory was first considered seriously in the 1940s.<br />The Birth of Time is a 200-page detailed look at how this remarkable story unfolded. Gribbin writes well and his explanations are quite lucid. We learn not only about major breakthroughs, but we also explore blind alleys and dead ends. It is an exciting, intriguing story, one that definitely warrants reading. <br />Nonetheless, this book has one major drawback. Gribbin fails to use explanatory drawings or graphs. For example, he describes the Hertzsprung-Russell (H-R) diagram entirely in words. We laboriously read: So in a diagram (a kind of graph) where the brightness of each star (its absolute brightness, after allowing for how far away it is) is plotted against its colour, all hydrogen-burning stars lie along a single band in the diagram, a band which is called the main sequence, running roughly diagonally from top left to bottom right. <br />Likewise, without any diagrams or graphs, or equations, Gribbin discusses parallax measurements, the redshift-distance relation, Hubble's Constant, gravitational lensing, spectral lines, and the Cepheid period-luminosity relation. (There were eight black and white full page astronomical photos that were indeed helpful.)<br />I hope John Gribbin updates his work to include recent findings regarding dark matter and dark energy, and the now highly precise age (13.7 billion years) assigned to the universe.<br />I reviewed the 2000 edition published by Universities Press.	2004-02-20
US	49618395	R2101J2RWZBP56	048627165X	90751887	Best Remembered Poems	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Doggerel, Rhymes, Lyrics, Verses, and Revered Poetry	Martin Gardner, a noted author, editor and anthologist, compiled this collection of memorable poems by nineteenth and twentieth century American and British poets. This poetry is memorable in the sense that many readers will recognize the poems and may have even memorized some of these verses in their school days. Gardner admits that some entries he cares not a rap about and even considers them doggerel. Others he remembers from childhood and still cherishes. <br />Gardner's anthology, Best Remembered Poems, does not pretend to be the best poems in the English language, but this collection does make entertaining reading.  Some poems once widely popular now seem atrocious. Others still resonate despite the passage of generations. I appreciated Gardner's short and often amusing introduction to each poem. For much of this poetry Gardner has the audacity to provide humorous parodies. This is obviously poetry to have fun with, not poetry to be intimidated by.<br />You may be familiar with similar anthologies. How does this collection of 123 poems compare with other collections that claim to be the 100 best loved poems, the 100 best poems, and the 101 most famous poems?<br />The little Dover edition, 100 Best-Loved Poems (edited by Philip Smith), overlaps significantly with Gardner's anthology.  They share 39 poems. Phillip Smith offers more poetry from Shakespeare, Donne, Jonson, Milton, Marvell, Hardy, Hopkins, Housman, Yeats, and other famous poets.<br />In his introduction Gardner pokes fun at the most successful of all anthologies, One Hundred and One Famous Poems (compiled by Roy J. Cook, 1929), for its high proportion of outdated and discarded poets. And yet, Gardner also shares 39 poems with Cook's collection, suggesting more affinity than Gardner might have recognized.<br />The third comparison is with 100 Poems by 100 Poets, the finest poetry in the English language, so say its three authors: Harold Pinter, Geoffrey Godbert, and Anthony Astbury.  The overlap with this more scholarly collection is hardly noticeable as only five poems are shared.<br />Gardner's collection includes the rather lengthy poem Thanatopsis, a favorite of high school literature classes in the early decades of the twentieth century. Unexpectedly, a few years ago as my wife's mother lay dying of cancer, she quoted the second half of Thanatopsis in full and without any errors. She had remembered this poem for more than sixty years.	2004-02-17
US	49618395	R1WE2OPC89ONGU	033039620X	959982855	Passage of Arms (Pan Classic Crime)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Another Great Story from Eric Ambler	I thoroughly enjoyed Passage of Arms. This is the fifth novel that I have read by Eric Ambler and I now understand why Len Deighton, Graham Greene, and John LeCarre give so much credit to Ambler for creating the modern espionage novel.    Passage of Arms begins in the port city Kuala Pangkalan in Malaya, moves to Singapore, and then to Sumatra. It is the late 1950s and arms smuggling is a dangerous, high risk business, especially when amateurs become involved. The plot is both interesting and  unpredictable. The exotic setting, Southeast Asia in the 1950s, is more threatening than inviting. But perhaps what I actually recall most about Passage of Arms is a unique, intriguing character, Girija Krishnana, a delightfully clever and ambitious clerk of Indian heritage.    Girija Krishnan is not the lead character, but he is nonetheless absolutely essential to the storyline in Passage to Arms. His obsessive desire to purchase a passenger bus results in unpredictable, explosive events. I will long remember the entrepreneurial Girija Krishnan.     Passage of Arms is a great way to become acquainted with this master of espionage and suspense.    Some other Ambler recommendations: Journey into Fear is the story of a Mr. Graham, a highly capable naval ordnance engineer, that becomes unexpectedly the target for assassination by German agents. Graham is no James Bond, and his desperate efforts to escape prove largely ineffective and amateurish.    Arthur Abdel Simpson, as the protagonist in The Light of Day, is disagreeable, dishonest, and disreputable. He blames others for his failings, he cheats his clients, and he has served a short sentence for distributing pornographic material. Somehow, as Arthur becomes ensnared in one of his own schemes, I found myself increasingly concerned and sympathetic for his plight.    Possibly Eric Ambler's most complex character is Michael Howell in The Levanter. He is a wily businessman intent on sheltering his family's third generation business in Syria from ongoing nationalization efforts by the Baathist Party. Much of the story is told in a first person narrative by Howell. The reader must decide how much of Howell's account is trustworthy.	2004-02-14
US	49618395	R28UAH1BIRBBOX	048660361X	698109090	Thermodynamics (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	109	112	N	N	Classic Lectures on Thermodynamics,  A+ for Clarity	These lectures by Enrico Fermi make great reading for undergraduates in chemistry or physics, particularly those undergoing the rigors of physical chemistry and chemical thermodynamics. Fermi writes with clarity, always carefully laying the appropriate groundwork for each topic.<br />The mathematics assumes familiarity with calculus, including partial differentiation. Fermi provides clear explanations and motivation for the mathematics and the derivations are complete and easy to follow. For example, he carefully explained the form of a perfect differential of two variables and how it can be more readily integrated. I appreciated this help.<br />The first four chapters will be familiar to students of physics: Thermodynamic Systems, First Law of Thermodynamics, Second Law of Thermodynamics, and Entropy. The derivation of the Clapeyron equation and the Van der Waals equation may be new to some students.<br />Thereafter, the text begins to look more like physical chemistry with chapters titled Thermodynamic Potentials, Gaseous Reactions, Thermodynamics of Dilute Solutions, and the Entropy Constant. I found these last chapters to be more difficult, but not overly so.<br />At some points Thermodynamics becomes a real page-turner, but not in the sense of a fast-paced action story. The page-turning is necessary to retrieve earlier mathematical expressions. Occasionally, you will encounter statements like \\"the expression for the free energy is immediately obtained from equations (111), (29), and (86).\\"  Fermi does not allow the reader to forget earlier derivations and discussions. <br />If your familiarity with thermodynamics is limited (or now foggy due to the passage of years), I suggest first reading Understanding Thermodynamics by H. C. Van Ness. This 100-page book, a series of lectures, is an excellent introduction to thermodynamics from an engineering and physics perspective. It corresponds to the first four chapters of Fermi's text.	2004-02-12
US	49618395	R18GB3XLIVUAMH	0486272664	799810493	The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and Other Poems	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Coleridge Expresses Some Surprisingly Modern Viewpoints	Samuel Taylor Coleridge produced nearly all of his best poetry in a two year period, 1797-1798, including The Rime of the Ancient Mariner and Kubla Khan. After writing Ode to Dejection (1802), his farewell to the Muse of Poetry, he wrote few poems and concentrated almost exclusively on literary criticism and political, philosophical, and theological essays.    This short, inexpensive Dover publication offers a broad sampling of the poetry of Coleridge - imaginative poems, lyrical ballads, witty poems, and more serious poetry on literary topics and political events. I expected more fantastical poems like Kubla Khan and I was unprepared for his serious, contemplative, and somewhat difficult poetry. Coleridge was more like Keats and Wordsworth than I had realized.    I was surprised by Coleridge in another way. He confronted political and social issues that are just as relevant and controversial today. Fears in Solitude, written in 1798 during the alarm of a possible invasion by France, criticizes the public's nave willingness to undertake military conflict, while arguing that Coleridge's criticism was neither unpatriotic nor mistimed. \\"I have told most bitter truth, but without bitterness.\\"     Similarly, in France: An Ode he tells of his unbridled enthusiasm for the revolution in France, followed by his bitter disappointment as the cause of liberty was betrayed by a revolution gone awry. In his short poem The Dungeon Coleridge challenges the practice of incarcerating prisoners in dark, dismal dungeons. He questions whether more humane treatment might be more curative.    His short, witty poem Cologne should earn him honorary membership in the Sierra Club. In observing how the Rhine River washes away the sewage of Cologne, he asks a question not fully answered today: But tell me, Nymphs, what power divine shall henceforth wash the River Rhine?     After reading his better known poetry, I suggest that you skip around to other poems of interest. But do come back to the more challenging poems. They will likely require multiple readings, but the effort will be rewarded.	2004-02-08
US	49618395	R1AR0A857LY2ZC	0802130666	683178808	The Visit: A Tragi-Comedy	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Brilliant Blend of Comedy and Tragedy	Somehow I had managed to remain totally unfamiliar with Friedrich Durrenmatt until I stumbled across a used copy of The Physicists a few months ago. Fortune has again favored me; I just located a copy of The Visit, a tragi-comedy by Durrenmatt.<br />Friedrich Durrenmatt created his imaginative tragicomedies in the 1950s and 1960s. His quirky plots, eccentric characters, and dark humor remind me of stories by Kurt Vonnegut. <br />The pessimism found in Durrenmatt's plays is not entirely surprising as the European psyche was slow to recover from the devastation of WWII. What did surprise me was the remarkable ability of Friedrich Durrenmatt to blend comedy with this pessimism. He uses comedy to entertain us and we do laugh. But, nonetheless, we readers remain aware that this comedy, no matter how funny, is only a superficial layer covering a more serious topic.<br />Fifty years have passed and Claire Zachanassian, now a multi-millionairess, returns to her childhood home, the small town of Guellen, not due to nostalgia, but to exact revenge. She offers the people of Guellen a fortune in return for justice, that is, the killing of her onetime sweetheart.<br />Claire Zachanassian is an intriguing character, rich enough to do what ever she desires. She seemingly approaches revenge in an disinterested, almost passive manner. Neither rational arguments nor pleading for compassion have any influence on her. In his short postscript Durrenmatt suggests that her role might best be enacted as a Greek tragic heroine, something like the legendary Medea.<br />I highly recommend the two plays, The Visit and The Physicists. I am already looking for his other plays.	2004-02-05
US	49618395	R3OTB7XYQQ3Q6L	0140234276	867810202	I Married a Dead Man (Crime, Penguin)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An Intense Story of Deception and Murder - Woolrich Classic	Cornell Woolrich, along with Raymond Chandler and James M. Cain, was a key innovator in the development of the noir genre of crime fiction in the 1930s and 1940s. I Married a Dead Man is considered a classic of this uniquely American genre.<br />I am fairly new to Cornell Woolrich as I have only previously read one of his novels, the suspenseful The Bride Wore Black. Woolrich wrote a large number of suspense novels, apparently of uneven quality. His best stories are very good and include The Phantom Lady, I Married A Dead Man, and his 'Black' series (so-named from their titles).<br />The plot for I Married a Dead Man twists and turns in an unpredictable manner. The layered, complex ending is quite good. I was completely unfamiliar with the plot and was continually surprised. If you are new to this book, avoid reading the summary on the dust jacket or elsewhere. Ignorance may not be bliss, but too much knowledge may spoil some of the surprise.<br />But it won't hurt to think about the seemingly incongruous title. In my limited experience Cornell Woolrich selects his titles carefully. In retrospect, a simple title may suddenly have multiple meanings.<br />I Married a Dead Man may be best compared to an Alfred Hitchcock movie. And, as matter of interest, Woolrich was the author of Rear Window.	2004-01-31
US	49618395	R14PVDBAJ9L6B6	0743413164	953774712	The Bride Wore Black	Books	5	10	13	N	N	A Classic Novel of Suspense, Obsession, and Murder	Raymond Chandler (The Big Sleep), James M. Cain (The Postman Always Rings Twice), and Cornell Woolrich were among the creators of the noir genre of crime fiction in the 1930s and 1940s. This uniquely American literary genre had its roots in the terse, violent, and often poorly written pulp fiction. More talented, innovative writers evolved a dark, modern mythology  that exploited themes of crime, guilt, deception, obsession, and murder.    I am familiar with other classics of noir genre, but The Bride Wore Black was my first introduction to Woolrich. The innocuous beginning, a young woman leaving home with no particular destination in mind, transitioned rapidly into an audacious, calculated, carefully planned murder without any apparent motive. Woolrich shifts the perspective back and forth from character to character, adeptly disguising the inner thoughts of the killer. Unlike the police who are uncertain whether the deaths are accidental or deliberate, we readers know it is murder, but not how the victims are chosen. I was unprepared for the ending.    The Bride Wore Black has been often republished and you should not have difficulty finding a copy.     Many novels and short stories by Cornell Woolrich have been adapted to the screen (the most notable was Rear Window), radio, and TV.  I Married a Dead Man, Phantom Lady, and his `Black' series of suspense novels were among his best works.	2004-01-30
US	49618395	R3R4O02CADVN5F	0486223051	799810493	The Rime of the Ancient Mariner	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Gustave Dore's Engravings offer Mesmerizing Images	I read and memorized portions of The Rime of the Ancient Mariner as a school boy. I thoroughly enjoyed my first reading and I still like it today. I only wish I had encountered these Dore illustrations years ago.<br />This oversized edition by Dover Publications reproduces all 42 Dore engravings in their original size. Gustave Dore's illustrations are absolutely mesmerizing. I enjoy slowly turning the pages and examining the phenomenal detail in these famous Dore engravings.<br />Every aspect of this edition is great. The Rime of the Ancient Mariner is an imaginative, haunting, and captivating narrative poem that has no parallel in the English language. The engravings by Gustave Dore - the open and endless sea, the vast icy reaches of Antarctica, the calm tropical sea with monsters swirling about, and the dead seamen sprawled on the ship's deck all translate the evocative words of Coleridge into unforgettable images. And the introduction by Millicent Rose is excellent.<br />Buy a copy. You won't be disappointed.	2004-01-28
US	49618395	R237MHV17RHO66	0486277844	622280753	Selected Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Enjoyable, Imaginative Poems - Byron Excels in Many Genre	Handsome, rich, titled, adventuresome, free-spirited, and even scandalous, Lord Byron was also the most prolific and versatile of the romantic poets. In this collection I was continually surprised as Byron excelled in one genre after another. I give a few examples: <br />I Would I Were A Careless Child recalls an idyllic life of childhood in Scotland. I wondered whether Lord Byron was truly sincere in his request to 'take back this name of splendid sound'. <br />Contrastingly, in the short poem Damaetas we encounter an untrustworthy, manipulative child 'versed in hypocrisy' who is soon 'old in the world though scarcely broke from school'. <br />Stanzas To A Lady On Leaving England tells of an enduring love: 'have loved so long, and loved but one'. Nonetheless, soon thereafter Byron playfully describes The Girl of Cadiz, a beautiful Spanish maiden. We also meet Maid of  Athens, Ere We Part and the innocent She Walks in Beauty.<br />To my surprise, the love poem When We Two Parted devolves into betrayal, broken vows, and deceit.<br />The Prisoner of Chillon is a chilling fable, a narrative of three brothers, chained to dungeon pillars, and dying slowly. The horrific poem Darkness is imaginative terror worthy of Edgar Allan Poe. And don't be misled by the apparently peaceful beginning to the macabre When the Moon is on the Wave (from Act 1, Scene 1, of Manfred).<br />The long narrative Beppo is totally different, a playful and amusing story that is enjoyable to read again and again. Dear Doctor, I Have Read Your Play is a humorous, rambling rejection note from a publisher, addressed to John William Polidori, Byron's friend and fellow poet.<br />I especially liked the two short, sentimental poems So We'll Go No More A Roving and My Boat Is on the Shore.<br />The Vision of Judgment is a lengthy, humorous satire that is still fun to read today, even though some references to topical events and political personalities are now unfamiliar. (It was probably less amusing to those individuals targeted by Byron.).  In contrast, the short poem, Who Killed John Keats?, is sharp satire, not at all amusing.<br />The thirty-one poems in this 100 page Dover Thrift Edition are quite enjoyable. After reading this short collection, apparently only a small fraction of Lord Byron's creative work, I suspect that you will have little choice but to become better acquainted with Byron's poetry.	2004-01-28
US	49618395	R1NUHHHUAKAK9R	0921149565	343733375	Doctor Faustus: A 1604-Version Edition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Scholarly Edition - Good Choice for English Majors	I highly recommend Christopher Marlowe's Doctor Faustus: a 1604-version edited by Michael Keefer. I am reviewing the first edition (1991) published by Broadview Press. <br />Dr. Keefer, co-winner of the 1987 Nelson Prize of the Renaissance Society of America, has been commended for his knowledge of Dr. Faustus. However, his extensive introduction, especially the discussion on textual criticism, is not easy reading and perhaps may be most useful for advanced undergraduate and graduate students.<br />Marlowe's Doctor Faustus exists in two distinct editions (1604 and 1616) that differ by more than 600 lines. Keefer argues that &quot;for all its deficiencies the earlier text represents a relatively more authentic version&quot;. Some readings from the 1616 version were incorporated into this edition where parallel text in the 1604 edition was clearly deficient.<br />The detailed introduction is over 90 pages; the 1604 play is another 90 pages. Keefer also supplemented the play with four appendices (more than 100 pages) - scenes from the 1616 version  that deviate from the earlier version, excerpts from Marlowe's source The History of the damnable life and deserved death of Doctor John Faustus, and the writings of Henricus Agrippa, a magician, and Jean Calvin, a theologian. The last two authors were not actual sources for Marlowe, but their writings help define the intellectual context in which Marlowe created his play, Dr. Faustus.<br />Keefer's explanatory footnotes are extensive and helpful. At the end of each act Keefer also provides detailed notes on variations between the 1604 and 1616 texts. <br />The extensively modified scenes from the 1616 version (in the appendix) were especially interesting.  I was surprised by the substantial changes and additions. I clearly gained greater appreciation for the difficulty in reconstructing an authentic version of Doctor Faustus.<br />The excerpts from The History of the damnable life and deserved death of Doctor John Faustus clearly illustrate Marlowe's indebtedness to this source, possibly his only source. Much of this account of the life of the actual Doctor Faustus is fabrication, as Keefer discusses in his introduction. The pact with the devil, an attendant spirit, powers of flight, the devouring of hay, a detachable leg, and an affair with Helen of Troy were embellishments added to the legend of Doctor Faustus in the first fifty years after his death. <br />In creating this remarkable play based on fact and legend, Christopher Marlowe has ensured that world will long remember this rather insignificant German scholar, a mythic character that continues to resonate with audiences centuries later.	2004-01-18
US	49618395	R45X0GI0TVOOP	0060936649	302174200	Wittgenstein's Poker: The Story of a Ten-Minute Argument Between Two Great Philosophers	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Wittgenstein and Popper and Twentieth Century History	I have struggled unsuccessfully to recall a parallel to this unusual book. The authors recount a brief, acrimonious debate between two noted philosophers, Karl Popper and Ludwig Wittgenstein, that remained largely forgotten until Popper published his memoirs years later. Surprisingly, Popper's recollections triggered a volley of sharp comments in the London Times Literary Supplement by some attendees to this 1946 meeting of the Cambridge Moral Science Club.<br />David Edmonds and John Eidinow used this trivial event as a basis for investigating the lives of two remarkable philosophers of the twentieth century. We readers learn something about academic life in pre-World War II Vienna and at Cambridge University. Also, while this is not a philosophy text, we do come away knowing a little more about the Wittgenstein school of philosophy.<br />I previously knew little of Wittgenstein and Popper. Apparently, neither man was especially likeable. Popper had a life-long obsession with debunking the philosophy of Wittgenstein; Wittgenstein claimed to be unaware of Popper. Both were known for aggressiveness, a no-holds-barred confrontational style of argument. Both believed that their vision was critical for the future of philosophy. <br />I am still puzzled why I so enjoyed Wittgenstein's Poker. Possibly I just became intrigued with these two brilliant, irascible, antagonistic protagonists.<br />Or maybe this work is most fascinating on another level. Edmonds and Eidinow convincingly demonstrate how fundamentally our world has changed. Tolerance, relativism, and the triumph of uncertainty now shape our thoughts in ways inconceivable just fifty years ago. Having just defeated Nazism and now threatened by Stalin's regime, there was little opportunity in 1946 for ambiguous intellectual positions.<br />Today the story of Wittgenstein's Poker seems incongruous, and even humorous.  And yet, perhaps the real interest of this brief argument at Cambridge is that it provides a sobering glimpse at twentieth century history.	2004-01-16
US	49618395	RFO7HCCP0KS49	047206035X	351760598	The Life of Charlemagne (Ann Arbor Paperbacks)	Books	5	48	49	N	N	Remarkable Biographical Work from the Ninth Century	Charlemagne's reign was a brief flash of light in the dark centuries that followed the collapse of the Roman empire. As king of the Franks, Charlemagne unified much of Western Europe - what today is northeastern Spain, all of France, and parts of Germany and Italy. He revived education and learning, repaired existing churches and built new ones, and helped strengthen the position of the Pope in Rome. In the year 800 Charlemagne was crowned Emperor Augustus, ruler of the new Roman empire.     This new empire was short lived, but Charlemagne became legend. Einhard, a scholar in Charlemagne's court and author of this short biography, was faced with a difficult question: how does one write a balanced and honest biography of a revered king, a king that had become legendary in his own time?    Einhard had few examples to follow. The religious biographies of saints were not entirely appropriate. He turned to a classical source, The Lives of the Caesars by the Roman historian Seutonius. Einhard devotes about half of his work to Charlemagne's extensive military campaigns, but his focus remains on Charlemagne the leader and Charlemagne the man, not on military tactics and strategy.    The modern reader will find it helpful to read between the lines. Einhard obviously admired Charlemagne, and his criticisms are muted. Also, Einhard's writing reflects a world view very different from today.     For example, Einhard in discussing the continual uprising of the Saxons says: he never allowed their faithless behavior to go unpunished, but either took the field against them in person, or sent his counts with an army to wreak vengeance and exact righteous satisfaction.     Wreak vengeance? Exact righteous satisfaction? The editor's footnote explains that at the time of a revolt in 782 Charlemagne had 4,500 Saxons beheaded in one day at Verden. Similarly, after a formidable conspiracy in Germany was put down, \\"all the traitors were banished, some of them without mutilation, others after their eyes had been put out\\".    Einhard provides many details of Charlemagne's character and private life. Charlemagne enjoyed the exhalations from natural hot springs. He often practiced swimming; few could surpass him in this sport. Einhard carefully describes the clothing worn by Charlemagne. He apparently disliked  foreign costumes, and was most comfortable in the common dress of the Frankish people.     He was temperate in eating, and especially drinking. He was particularly fond of roast meat prepared on a spit and disregarded medical advice to eat only boiled meat. He could speak Latin fluently.  St. Augustine's The City of God was among his favorite books. He never developed proficiency at writing, although he practiced regularly during his later years.     Einhard's biography was immensely popular and more than eighty manuscripts still exist today.    My copy of The Life of Charlemagne was published by Ann Arbor Paperbacks, University of Michigan Press. The foreword by historian Sidney Painter was quite helpful in establishing the historical context. My copy includes a ninth century map of Europe, footnotes, and a genealogical table for the family of Charlemagne and Hildegard.	2004-01-13
US	49618395	RHJQ2IK9BMNKH	1840224258	43824577	Gothic Short Stories (Tales of Mystery & the Supernatural)	Books	4	19	20	N	N	Good Historical Compilation of Gothic Stories	Gothic Short Stories, published as a Wordsworth Classics in 2002, is a literary compilation that ranges from early anonymous tales to stories by noted authors like Sir Walter Scott, Edgar Allan Poe, Charles Dickens, J. S. Le Fanu, Nathaniel Hawthorne, Robert Louis Stevenson, Ambrose Bierce,  and M. R. James. The twenty stories are arranged chronologically from 1773 to 1912.<br /><br />Nearly all stories were new to me; I had only previously encountered Berenice (Poe, 1835), The Body Snatcher (Stevenson, 1885), and Canon Alberic's Scrapbook (M. R. James, 1894).<br /><br />Many early Gothic stories were published as though they were fragments of lost works. The first five tales in this collection are more interesting from a historical perspective than for their literary value. However, innovative writers continue to explore language, plots, and settings appropriate to this new genre. For example, while The Spectre Bride (1822, anonymous) is not entirely convincing, it does chill the reader as a young woman is seduced by a demon lover.<br /><br />Within a few decades this new genre began attracting established authors. Sir Walter Scott was near the end of his remarkable career when he wrote The Tapestried Chamber in 1829. The three stories in this collection by Poe, Dickens, and Le Fanu were published in the next decade.  Le Fanu's intriguing story, Strange Event in the Life of Schalken the Painter (1839), illustrates the rapid maturing of the Gothic tale.<br /><br />I was most surprised by The Yellow Wallpaper (1892), a disturbing tale of obsession by Charlotte Perkins Gilman, an author unfamiliar to me. I also liked The Lame Priest (1901) by S. Carleton, Luella Miller (1902) by Mary Wilkins Freeman, and The Room in the Tower (1912) by E. F. Benson.<br /><br />The introduction by David Blair provides a lengthy examination of the historical development of Gothic short stories. I initially scanned the introduction. Later, after I was better acquainted with these stories, I read the Blair's introduction more carefully as well as his brief comments on the various authors in a short appendix.	2004-01-10
US	49618395	R3MPKZMFBA17LB	9997285492	659870118	Titus Andronicus (The Oxford Shakespeare)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Shakespeare Mastered Every Genre  -  Including Horror	On a first reading of this macabre play all hints of Shakespeare's poetic genius are overwhelmed by rape, mutilation, and murder. This cannot be Shakespeare. And yet, despite fervent efforts by many scholars to prove otherwise, the evidence supports Shakespeare as author.    Although popular in the Elizabethan period, later generations dismissed Titus Andronicus as a practice play, a huge joke, a gristly theatrical feast, and a quease-inducing play. Contrastingly, the commentary in my Oxford Shakespeare edition argues that the revenge motif was a suitable topic for Shakespeare. The Elizabethan audience was acclimated to violence, including bear baiting as a sport, weekly public hangings, and an occasional witch execution. Revenge drama, like The Spanish Tragedy by Thomas Kyd, was immensely popular. Shakespeare knew his audience.    Did the young Shakespeare intend this play to be serious drama, or was it a brutal parody of Elizabethan revenge drama? There is little agreement among scholars.    In a re-reading of Titus Andronicus, I attempted to see beyond the gore and carnage for indications of Shakespeare's poetic style. Tamora's poetic plea - Sweet mercy is nobility's badge - offers advice that is ignored by all, including Tamora herself. The lengthy speech by Marcus upon encountering the mutilated Lavinia is poetic, although one questions the propriety of a dramatic speech while Lavinia is bleeding profusely. Also, Aaron's proud confession to Lucius is chilling drama.    Few characters seem as fully developed, but then this play is among Shakespeare's earliest works. The close relatives of Titus Andronicus are largely one-dimensional. Marcus Andronicus is the loyal brother, Lucius is the noble son, and Lavinia is the innocent daughter. Likewise, Tamora, the captured queen of the Goths, and her two sons, Chiron and Demetrius, seem almost caricatures of evil. They joyously plot rape and murder.     The revengeful Titus Andronicus offers some complexity, possibly foreshadowing Shakespeare's later creations like King Lear, Macbeth, and Othello. We see him as a heroic chieftain that is politically inept, a stoic parent that accepts the sacrifice of his many sons in battle, a distraught and nearly insane victim, and a cunning practitioner of revenge.    I was puzzled most by character of Aaron the Moor. Is he merely a villain? There is a spark of humanity in his concern for his young infant, but it sputters out and we see only implacable evil:  But I have done a thousand dreadful things as willingly as one would kill a fly, and nothing grieves me heartily indeed, but that I cannot do ten thousand more.    Not surprisingly, Titus Andronicus is seldom performed. The Royal Shakespeare Company's recent production is their first since 1981. Interestingly, Titus is played David Bradley, an actor known to millions as the irascible caretaker Filch in the Harry Potter movies.      I highly recommend the Oxford Shakespeare edition. I give this edition four stars, in part for the extensive commentary and editing by Eugene M. Waith.	2004-01-01
US	49618395	R2SOYYHVFUE4HZ	0486268675	495815924	She Stoops to Conquer (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Among the Most Read and Performed English Comedies	Few English plays dating from the eighteenth century appeal to modern audiences. For much of that period comedies were characterized by an exaggerated sentimentality and intense moralizing. Independently, the playwrights Oliver Goldsmith and Richard Brinsley Sheridan rejected this moralizing mode, returning to the English stage a humorous, mildly satirical form of comedy.    In a short period they created three plays that are still enjoyed today: She Stoops to Conquer (Goldsmith, 1773), The School for Scandal (Sheridan, 1775) and The Rivals (Sheridan, 1777).    In recent months I have read all three play. All are quite good, but I especially liked She Stoops to Conquer and The School for Scandal.  While The School for Scandal is widely admired for its witty dialogue, She Stoops to Conquer offers the most hilarious situations.    The basic theme in She Stoops to Conquer is familiar. The guardians, her father Mr. Hardcastle and her aunt Mrs. Hardcastle, have arranged a suitable marriage for young Miss Hardcastle. She, of course, has other plans. Oliver Goldsmith adroitly transformed this overly used situation into delightful comedy. The plot is complicated by a shy suitor, friends with their own plans of elopement, and an unruly prankster, all leading to utter confusion in the rustic Hardcastle household. I quickly became engaged with the ridiculous happenings; I read She Stoops to Conquer in a single sitting. Five stars.    Possible Interest - Another Comedy and Two Moralizing Plays:      John Gay's The Beggar's Opera, first staged in 1728 in London, was another exception to the moralizing trend in the eighteenth century. This delightful, satirical comedy is considered the first modern musical. Five stars.    In the prologue to The Conscious Lovers (1722) Sir Richard Steele states his objective: \\"To chasten wit, and moralize the stage\\" and to \\"Redeem from long contempt the comic name\\". Steele's objective was to instruct and to ennoble rather than to amuse. Humor is clearly subordinate. Two stars (plus perhaps 1 star for historical interest).    George Lillo's moralizing melodrama, The London Merchant (1731), was a resounding success in the summer of 1731 and was apparently performed 179 times by 1776. Its repetitious moral lessons seemingly resonated with eighteenth century audiences. Three stars.	2003-12-30
US	49618395	R2JQNGWN79T2TR	0486282082	610786424	Dr. Faustus (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	My soul for profit, delight, and power.	At age 29 Christopher Marlowe was apparently stabbed and killed in an argument over a tavern bill. In his short life he left a remarkable legacy of four great plays and exerted considerable influence on another young playwright, William Shakespeare. The Tragicall History of Dr. Faustus, or simply Dr. Faustus, is the story of a brilliant scholar whose thirst for knowledge and power leads him to trade his soul to Lucifer.    As we first encounter Faustus, he is systematically dismissing further study of Aristotlean logic, Galen's teachings on medicine, Justinian's works on law, and the study of divinity; Faustus is already the acknowledged master of these subjects. Only the study of necromancy can offer him greater profit, delight, and power. Faustus through incantations summons Mephistophilis, servant of Lucifer, to negotiate a trade for his soul. Mephistophilis urges Faustus to reconsider, but Faustus is adamant: \\"Had I had as many souls as there be stars, I'd give them all for Mephistophilis.\\" Faustus recklessly forges his agreement with Lucifer, his body and soul to be forfeit after 24 years of service from Mephistophilis.     Again and again Faustus calls upon Mephistophilis for delights and power and hidden knowledge. Mephistophilis obliges, and Faustus increasingly distances himself from God. Occasionally Faustus has misgivings and considers repentance, but fails to act, due partly to persuasion and threats from Mephistophilis - if thou repents, devils shall tear thee in pieces.      The intensity builds as Faustus repeatedly rejects God's offer of mercy and forgiveness, and we are never quite certain whether he will repent or not. Marlowe occasionally lowers the growing intensity by interspersing brief episodes of humor with tragedy, a convention quite familiar to Elizabethan audiences. I leave the ending as a surprise.    Christopher Marlowe's other works include his two part drama Tamburlane the Great, The Troublesome Reign and Lamentable Death of Edward II,King of England, and The Famous Tragedy of the Rich Jew of Malta.    I recently read Doctor Faustus, edited by Michael Keefer and published by Broadview Press (ISBN 0-921149-59-X). The detailed introduction, comparisons between the 1604 and 1616 versions, and source material make it a good choice for English literature majors.    The Dover edition is another good choice as it is quite inexpensive, but it offers only sparse footnotes.	2003-12-28
US	49618395	R3PI2JOPP83BR9	0517574829	669734911	Lord Byron: Great Poets Series	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Small Gift Edition of Byron's Romantic Poetry	The English Romantic poets have remained popular even as poetic styles and fashions have changed. The poetry of Lord Byron is still widely admired and many collections exist. For example, The Poetical Works of Byron, Cambridge edition, is more than a thousand pages despite its use of a moderately small font. Byron was clearly a prolific poet.<br />How does one create a small gift edition of Lord Byron's poetry?  This little edition, titled Lord Byron, offers a small sampling of Byron's poetry that is quite good. It is a thin, hardcover book of sixty-one pages and is slightly taller and wider than a standard paperback. Twelve pages are devoted to paintings appropriate to the individual poems. The font is large and easy to read. The format is attractive and suitable as a small gift.<br />The editor, Peter Porter, argues that much of the longer poetry of Lord Byron is actually his best. Accordingly, Porter offers short selections from Childe Harold's Pilgrimage, The Island, The Vision of Judgment, Beppo, and Don Juan. The smaller poems include Adrian's Address to His Soul When Dying -  She Walks in Beauty - So, We'll Go No More a Roving - Martial, Book 1, Epigram 1- On This Day I Complete My Thirty-Sixth Year.<br />In a three page introduction Peter Porter provides an intriguing look at the fascinating life of Lord Byron. It can easily be argued that Byron's remarkable, and sometimes notorious exploits, have come to symbolize English Romanticism. <br />Explanatory footnotes are not provided, but are seldom needed. A few references to Greek mythology and a few archaic poetic terms may not be familiar, but most readers should not have any particular difficulty with the poems in this short collection. This attractive, little book can serve not only as an introduction to Lord Byron's poetry, but also an inducement for the reader to become more familiar with English Romantic Poetry.	2003-12-25
US	49618395	R10Q2MAO6QHKKB	0486290271	389889394	The Island of Dr. Moreau (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Chilling Horror Story of Man's Misuse of Science	Years ago I avidly read the thrilling fiction of Edgar Allan Poe, Jules Verne, and H. G. Wells. All three authors created highly imaginative, sometimes frightening stories. H. G. Wells was the more modern author and with some revisions to reflect modern biology and medicine, The Island of Dr. Moreau (1896) could easily be a contemporary horror story. <br />In this tale Wells employed the narrative style characteristic of nineteenth century fiction. The story is told by the only survivor of three men drifting aimlessly at sea with little water and food. The rescued Edward Prendick finds himself on a ship with a most unusual cargo - a menagerie of animals - all destined for a remote island. Unexpectedly, as a fellow traveler disembarks along with the caged animals, Prendick is forcefully cast ashore on this strange island, the island of Dr. Moreau.<br />Wells allows Prendick (and the reader) to gradually unveil the horrifying mystery of Dr. Moreau's isolated laboratory.  This exciting blend of science fiction, horror, and mystery is surprisingly suspenseful.<br />H. G. Wells is best known for The War of the Worlds, The Invisible Man, The Time Machine, and The Island of Dr. Moreau. These four superb science fiction novels share the common theme of man overwhelmed by the potential of science for harm and evil. His entertaining stories are surprisingly provocative. <br />In his later years H. G. Wells became increasingly pessimistic about man's future. He refused to leave his home in Regent's Park during the German bombing of London. He died in 1946.<br />Hint: When searching for editions by title, check under Dr. Moreau and Dr Moreau and Doctor Moreau.  These different spellings can yield different results.	2003-12-21
US	49618395	R2J8HHT4BESKQZ	0486264041	891129676	What is Mathematical Logic? (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Six Rigorous Lectures - Not for the Faint-Hearted	Although this book - What is Mathematical Logic? - is written in an informal and entertaining style, it is unlikely to appeal to a reader not familiar with predicate calculus, recursive functions, and set theory. Despite its innocuous title, this little book is surprisingly rigorous. <br />The six chapters are derived from a series of lectures given by the five authors - J. N. Crossley, C. J. Ash, C. J. Brickhill, J. C. Stillwell, and N. H. Williams - at Monash University and University of Melbourne in 1971.  The lectures were substantially revised for publication.<br />Only the first chapter, a detailed historical survey of mathematical logic, can be readily appreciated by the non-mathematician. The remaining five chapters examine advanced topics in mathematical logic including the Godel-Henkin Completeness Theorem, Model Theory, Turing machines and recursive functions, Godel's Incompleteness Theorem, and advanced set theory. <br />Chapter 2 introduces the Godel-Henkin Completeness Theorem, a proof that predicate calculus is complete. Chapter 2 is not easy, but it is essential to acquire a reasonable familiarity with predicate calculus before moving forward.<br />Chapter 3 offers a detailed look at model theory, the study of relations between formal languages and the interpretation of formal languages. Topics include Predicate Calculus with Identity, the Compactness Theorem, and the Lowenheim-Skolem Theorems. I had substantial difficulty with the details, but I did gain a general understanding and appreciation for model theory.<br />Chapter 4 addressed in considerable detail a more familiar topic, Turing machines and recursive functions. The discussion concludes with a key proof: there is no algorithm which will enable us to decide, given any particular formula of predicate calculus, whether or not this particular formula is deducible from the axioms of predicate calculus.<br />Chapter 5 was a detailed examination of Godel's Incompleteness Theorem for formal systems that include arithmetic of the natural numbers. I had less difficulty with this topic as I had previously read Godel's Proof by E. Nagel and J. R. Newman. This chapter would very likely be tough going for a reader entirely new to Godel's exceeding complex and abstruse proof.<br />Chapter 6, titled Set Theory, might be better named Advanced Set Theory. I was entirely new to the Axiom of Choice and the Generalized Continuum Hypothesis.<br />I highly recommend this intriguing and lively look at mathematical logic to readers with some familiarity with this rather formidable subject. For readers new to mathematical logic, I suggest that the following books might be better starting points.<br />Foundations and Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics by Howard Eves is outstanding. The chapter titled Logic and Philosophy is an excellent introduction to mathematical logic. <br />The Advent of the Algorithm by David Berlinski is an eclectic, rather bizarre introduction to a complex mathematical topic. Although many reader reviewers aggressively criticize this book, I enjoyed puzzling my way through Berlinski's discursive discussions.<br />Godel's Proof by Ernest Nagel and James R. Newman offers a fascinating look at a mind boggling, incredibly complex, inventive mathematical proof.	2003-12-16
US	49618395	R39W5MPIN075S3	0413532607	448620218	The Witch of Edmonton (Methuen Student Editions)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Entertaining Plot - Methuen Student Edition is Great	I look unfavorably upon books and screenplays rushed to the market to capitalize on recent sensational jury trials, confessions of serial murderers, and distasteful behavior by politicians and other celebrities. I would consider it unlikely that I would appreciate a play rapidly assembled by three playwrights on the recent execution of a notorious old woman condemned for practicing witchcraft. Surprisingly, I did enjoy such a play.     Admittedly, a few centuries have elapsed since Thomas Dekker and John Ford and William Rowley collaborated on The Witch of Edmonton. The Mother Sawyer subplot is apparently faithful to the actual event; Sawyer was hanged on April 19, 1621. Within days the chaplain of Newgate Gaol published a pamphlet titled The Wonderful Discoverie of Elizabeth Sawyer a Witch, late of Edmonton, her Conviction and Condemnation and Death. This document served as the primary source for Dekker, Ford, and Rowley. The first known performance was December 29, 1621 at the Court of King James, but earlier public performances are likely to have occurred.    Many books, plays, (and now screenplays) on topical events are quickly forgotten. Fortunately, after several centuries of neglect, The Witch of Edmonton was republished in the late 1800s, most importantly in the influential Mermaid Series. More recently several major production companies, including the Royal Shakespeare Company, have staged The Witch of Edmonton.    The short prologue to this play ends with the sentence: 'Here is mirth and matter.' However, most readers will agree that The Witch of Edmonton has only a few elements of comedy and that matter clearly overwhelms mirth.    The plot involves two intertwined themes, both stories of betrayal and deceit and misplaced loyalty: 1) To gain a dowry, the young Frank Thorney deceives all that trust him, commits bigamy, and even murder. 'Tis done, and I am in. Once past our height, we scorn the deepest abyss' 2) Living in isolation, feared and abused by herneighbors, Mother Sawyer pleads for help. 'Would some power, good or bad, instruct me which way I might be revenged.' The devil in the guise of a dog obliges Mother Sawyer in return for her soul.    The Witch of Edmonton is interesting, entertaining drama. The characters do not have the psychological depth found in Shakespeare's tragedies, but this play warrants reading by anyone that enjoys Elizabethan and Jacobean drama.    I highly recommend the Methuen Student Edition.  The extensive commentary, plot analysis, and character reviews are excellent.	2003-12-08
US	49618395	R1WKBX6EFEI2KO	0486400565	956060839	The Moonlit Road and Other Ghost and Horror Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Chilling Collection of Imaginative Ghost Stories	The Moonlit Road and Other Ghost and Horror Stories is another marvelous, inexpensive reprint from  Dover Publications.  These twelve stories selected from The Collected Works of Ambrose Bierce are remarkably good. I intend to become much better acquainted with Ambrose Bierce.<br />Bierce had an inventive imagination, much like Edgar Allan Poe. In this chilling collection we meet angry spirits seeking revenge, humans transformed into wild beasts, and individuals deranged by encounters with apparitions. Although written a century ago, several stories explored subjects that seemed surprisingly modern. The Man and the Snake is a frightening study of the psychology of one man's imagination. Time and space are transformed in A Psychological Shipwreck. And we meet an emotional, possibly unstable, thinking machine in Moxon's Master.<br />I considered listing the stories that were my favorites. However, as I enjoyed all twelve stories, I decided to forego the exercise.  Buy this little collection. You won't be disappointed. <br />Ambrose Bierce fought at Shiloh and Chickamauga, was wounded at the battle of Kenesaw Mountain in 1864, and retired after the war at the rank of major. Later, as a newspaperman in San Francisco, his acerbic wit and penchant for satire made him a significant force in its vibrant literary community. In 1913 he disappeared while traveling in Mexico, possibly a victim of the Mexican Civil war.	2003-12-06
US	49618395	R2KFDHHDE8FDYY	0486632776	505104417	Understanding Thermodynamics (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	5	90	91	N	N	Lucid Explanation of Thermodynamics - Highly Recommended	Understanding Thermodynamics is an exceptional introduction to a subtle and complex topic. The First and Second Law of Thermodynamics are seemingly trivial, and yet an understanding of theoretical and applied thermodynamics often eludes even the best of students.  This 100-page overview is much better than the chapter or two on thermodynamics in a first year physics text. It is a more lucid and interesting discussion than is even found in Feynman's Lectures in Physics, Volume 1.<br />H. C. Van Ness, a professor of chemical engineering at Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute and expert in thermodynamics, approaches his subject in an uniquely interesting fashion, stressing that the First and Second Law are assumptions based on empirical data. They are fundamental statements that cannot be derived from other principles.<br />In chapter 1 Van Ness borrows a humorous analogy from Feynman to explain the reasonableness of the abstract concept of internal energy and the relationship between internal energy, heat, and work.<br />Chapter 2 introduces the concept of reversibility, and explains its fundamental importance to thermodynamics.  In doing so he carefully exposes our underlying assumptions.<br />In chapter 3, titled Heat Engines, Van Ness emphasizes that the reversible process represents the limiting behavior of actual systems, the best that we can hope for. Also, in most cases we are not even able to make calculations unless we simplify our problem by assuming that our system exhibits reversibility. Van Ness carefully explains the basic engineering calculations for both the Otto engine cycle and the Carnot theoretical heat engine.<br />In chapter 4 Van Ness guides the reader carefully through detailed thermodynamic analysis of a large scale power plant. In doing so, he provides an intriguing look at the unintended and unavoidable environmental impact of large power plants.<br />Van Ness introduces the Second Law of Thermodynamics by asking whether we can uncover any hidden relationships in a set of empirical data for reversible heat processes. After being led down several blind alleys,  we unexpectedly discover a quantity that seems even more abstract than the concept of internal energy. We decide to call it entropy.<br />The last two chapters -  More on the Second Law, and Thermodynamics and Statistical Mechanics - were slightly more difficult. The section on statistical mechanics would normally be found in a physical chemistry textbook.<br />The chapters are written in an informal manner, much like lectures. The mathematics assumes some calculus, but it is not any more difficult a first year physics text. It makes good independent reading, but Van Ness intended for Understanding Thermodynamics to be used along with a standard engineering or physics text. No problems sets are found at the end of the chapters.	2003-12-06
US	49618395	R1VHKIFJPR4FMF	0486227588	673626127	Ghost Stories of an Antiquary	Books	4	49	50	N	N	Ghostly Tales from a Scholar of Medieval Manuscripts	Montague Rhodes James (1862-1936), Vice-Chancellor at Cambridge, Director of the prestigious Fitzwilliam Museum, and later Provost of Eton, was possibly the world's greatest authority on medieval manuscripts. He is thought to have studied nearly twenty thousand documents. He also wrote ghost stories.<br />Ghost Stories of an Antiquary was published in a limited edition in 1904 and reprinted nine times in the next decade. He subsequently published three other collections - More Ghost Stories of an Antiquary (1911), A Thin Ghost and Others (1919),  and A Warning to the Curious (1926). M. R. James greatly admired the supernatural fiction of J. Sheridan LeFanu and thought of himself as simply a follower in LeFanu's footsteps. <br />In the interesting introduction to this Dover edition E. F. Bleiler writes that the &quot;evil that dieth not, but lieth in wait&quot; is a common theme in these chilling stories.  This evil that dieth not is best left undisturbed.  The curious ones, those seekers of forgotten lore, often discover that knowledge comes at a high price. And the reader may find that sleep comes less easy. <br />I quite enjoyed this short collection and I am sure that it will appeal to any reader of Victorian ghost stories. A few may seem somewhat familiar as undoubtedly the tales of M. R. James have long served as a source of inspiration for later stories and screenplays.<br />The stories in this collection include Canon Alberic's Scrap-book, Lost Hearts, The Mezzotint, The Ash-tree, Number 13, Count Magnus, Oh Whistle and I'll Come to You My Lad, and The Treasure of Abbott Thomas.	2003-12-02
US	49618395	R3GMCQ7F3JLCK4	0393900177	489124121	Spanish Tragedy	Books	4	13	13	N	N	New Mermaids  footnotes are very helpful - Updated review February, 2008	The Spanish Tragedy (1592) was a remarkably popular Elizabethan revenge play that substantially influenced other Elizabethan playwrights including Shakespeare. The gruesome, neo-Senecan melodrama, Titus Andronicus, dates from 1594; Hamlet was first performed in 1602.    I knew little about The Spanish Tragedy at the time of my first reading (and review) in 2003. In retrospect I failed to appreciate fully Thomas Kyd's Senecan framework, especially the significance of the prologue by the ghost of Andrea, the role of the supernatural Revenge, and the varied scenes in the underworld of Roman mythology - all found in the first act. I am not certain whether I even realized that the ghost Andrea and Revenge remained on stage throughout the play, invisible to the actors, but clearly visible to the audience.    I wrote that although I was confused with intervention of pagan gods and that the numerous murders seemed excessive, I still considered Kyd's tragedy warranted four stars. Having recently returned to The Spanish Tragedy (as part of a collection of Elizabethan revenge tragedies), I am now much more enthusiastic (a solid five stars).    I no longer find the two intertwined plots to be puzzling.  I now see the thoughtless injustice suffered by Hieronimo in the Spanish court as mirrored in the random, capricious behavior of the gods: the confusion the deceased Andrea encountered upon entering the underworld, Proserpine's arbitrary, even frivolous suggestion for Revenge to aid Andrea, and the gods's uneven punishments meted out to the murderers of Horatio (and to others only marginally involved with crime).  This disturbing parallel reflects Kyd's nihilistic and pessimistic view of life: not even the intervention of the gods offers any assurance of rational justice.    New Mermaids edition: The footnotes come in two forms. The first provides definitions for unfamiliar or archaic words, or words whose meanings have changed significantly. The second offers explanations of plot subtleties, differences in interpretations by experts, and possible influences on later plays by Shakespeare ans others. Also, translations are provided for Kyd's frequent quotations in Latin, many from Seneca's writings.	2003-11-30
US	49618395	R288GM82ANPMIW	048627795X	866407885	Green Tea and Other Ghost Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	LeFanu - Greatest Writer of Victorian Ghost Stories	Among the remarkable literary creations of the Victorian period are stories of ghosts and other supernatural phenomena. The tales of J. Sheridan LeFanu are highly regarded as among the best early examples of  psychological horror stories. LeFanu was born in Dublin in 1814 and died there in in 1873.<br />LeFanu's style is indeed Victorian. The writing is more leisurely. Careful attention is paid to establishing the mood and atmosphere. Descriptions are more detailed. The sense of supernatural horror builds slowly, much like the tales of Poe.<br />The four entertaining ghost stories in this inexpensive Dover Thrift edition are a good introduction to the J. Sheridan LeFanu and include Green Tea, Squire Toby's Will, The Fortunes of Sir Robert Ardagh, and Sir Dominick's Bargain. In the Victorian style LeFanu presents his stories as actual facts, narratives found in old diaries, medical writings, or first hand accounts from family friends or loyal servants.  His stories remain popular today, due largely to their psychological depth and subtlety. <br />In Green Tea Dr. Hesselius encounters a cleric suffering from periodic bouts of delusion, believing that he is being stalked by a malignant apparition. <br />Squire Toby and his two sons, Scroope Marston, the elder, and Charles Marston, his handsome brother, are all three despicable characters whose mutual hatred for each other apparently transcends the grave.<br />The Fortunes of Sir Robert Ardagh is told as two stories. The first is the legend and local lore of the peasants living near the secluded fortress Ardagh. The other is an eye witness, factual account, possibly even more chilling than the local legend.<br />Sir Dominick's Bargain is disturbing version of a man's pact with the devil.<br />Note: Is it LeFanu or Le Fanu? Both variations seemed to be equally common. This Dover edition uses the form J. Sheridan LeFanu. The Merriam Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature prefers Le Fanu with a space. Many computer search algorithms yield quite different results for these two nearly identical spellings.	2003-11-29
US	49618395	RV1HINM1EP9ST	1560440929	159671714	Texas Wildlife Viewing Guide (Wildlife Viewing Guides Series)	Books	4	10	10	N	N	142 Accessible Viewing Sites Across Texas - Useful Guide	This inexpensive Texas guidebook, like the other state guides in this series, is intended to provide quality wildlife viewing and educational opportunities to the general public without endangering wildlife habitats. This specific Texas guidebook is a joint effort by the Texas Wildlife and Parks Department, Defenders of Wildlife (a non-profit organization), the US Forest Service, the Texas General Land office, the US Fish and Wildlife Service, and other conservation agencies.<br />Each site includes a general description of the wildlife abundance, viewing information, directions, and land ownership. Texas is divided into ten geographical regions; maps illustrate the locations of all sites within each region.  A wildlife index helps the reader find sites which have a higher probability for encountering specific mammals, birds, reptiles, fish, and even insects. Color photos are located throughout this 160-page guide.<br />Much of this viewing information can be derived from other sources, but it is not often found in such a handy, convenient format. I keep my copy in our car along with a remarkably detailed Texas atlas, The Roads of Texas. On several occasions this little book has helped us discover fascinating locations that we would have bypassed otherwise. It has paid for itself many times over.<br />I recommend that you buy a used copy if you can not locate a new one. The viewing information does not become quickly outdated.	2003-11-28
US	49618395	R23ENLG4P23SXR	0486210103	378403677	Essays on the Theory of Numbers (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Will Appeal to Students of Mathematics and Philosophy	Richard Dedekind (1831-1916) is recognized as one of the great pioneers in the logical and philosophical analysis of the foundations of mathematics. Dedekind completed his doctoral studies under Gauss, was a friend of Cantor and Riemann, and worked under Dirichlet.     This inexpensive, 115-page book, Essays on the Theory of Numbers, contains two essays: his brief, famous essay Continuity and Irrational Numbers and his longer paper The Nature and Meaning of Numbers. This  Dover edition (1963) is an unabridged and unaltered copy of the 1901 authorized English translation by mathematician W. W. Beman.    I particularly enjoyed his famous essay on the Dedekind cut and irrational numbers. Dedekind writes clearly and carefully and this first paper should appeal to all students of mathematics.  The intent of the longer essay was to provide a logical basis for finite and infinite numbers as well as demonstrating the logical validity of mathematical induction. I had some difficulty with The Nature and Meaning of Numbers as some of Dedekind's terminology is outdated and unfamiliar.     Some statements can be reformulated easily to modern terminology. For example, simply substitute set for system and proper set for proper system. Dedekind uses the term transformation for function (or mapping). Inverse transformations and identical transformations are the same as inverse functions and identical mappings.    A system may be compounded from other systems (same concept as union of sets).  The community of systems A, B, and C is the same as intersection of sets A, B, and C. While admitting that a null system has some value, Dedekind deliberately avoided using the concept of a null set in these essays. I did not at first recognize that similar or distinct transformations were equivalent to one-to-one mappings. I had difficulty with the Dedekind's use of the term chain when discussing the transformation of a system S into itself.    Dedekind was not successful in imposing his terminology on later mathematicians. Nonetheless, Dedekind's essays had considerable influence on mathematics, not only for their content, but for their clarity of expression.    Minor points: This 1901 translation often employs an unusual positioning of the verb 'is': If R, S are similar systems, then is every part of S also similar to a part of R. Also, while I encountered a few typos, none were particularly troublesome.	2003-11-23
US	49618395	R3C26VRWT31CX3	0062701908	582795702	The Highly Selective Dictionary for the Extraordinarily Literate	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A Unique and Useful Compilation for College Students	Sometimes it is wise not to judge a book by its title. I suggest that you ignore the elitist title and concentrate on its contents. The Highly Selective Dictionary for the Extraordinary Literate is a useful compilation, a helpful tool for college students.    Eugene Ehrlich offers only those words that you are likely to reference in a dictionary.  Simple words are not listed. For example, none of the words that I used in this review can be found in his selective dictionary. Likewise, those 500,000 words in the English language that are rarely used are not included in this book. Ehrlich's words inhabit a borderland separating those words we already know and those words that we will never need to know.    Did he get it right? Well, it depends on the geographic position of your particular borderland. I offer you some empirical data.     I am reading for the first time The Way of the World, an early eighteenth century play by William Congreve. I found only two troublesome words (billingsgate and nonpariel) in the editor's 12-page introduction. Ehrlich provided clear, concise definitions for both words.    Previously I reviewed a rather scholarly work, The Odes of John Keats, by Helen Vendler, a respected literature professor at Harvard. I scanned a random chapter (Ode to a Nightingale, 32 pages) and found synecdoche, antiphonal, discarnate, mimetic, and solipsistic. Antiphonal and discarnate were not in Ehrlich's dictionary.    I looked at random pages in Ehrlich's dictionary, tested myself, and concluded that for about one-fourth of the entries I would have trouble offering an acceptable definition, even with some help from contextual clues. I listed below three typical pages from Ehrlich's dictionary:    We find on page 67 the words existentialism, exoteric (do not confuse with esoteric), expatiate, expiate, explicate, and expostulate,     and on page 111 is mimesis (and mimetic), minatory, misanthrope, miscegenation, miscreant, misogamy, misogyny, misprision, and mitigate (sometimes confused with militate),     and lastly on page 164 there is sophistry, soporific, sororicide, soubrette, soupcon, specious, splenetic, spoonerism, and squash (as contrasted with quash).     I originally bought this dictionary to help my daughter prepare for the GRE. Having devoted some time to browsing this fascinating compilation, I now hope that she will not forget to return Ehrlich's dictionary to me.	2003-11-16
US	49618395	R2GFF56BPM5WS3	0486255344	318712653	The Club of Queer Trades	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Victorian, Singularly Chestertonian, Whimsical Characters	This early work (1905) by G. K. Chesterton defies classification. These six successive stories initially appear to be mysteries, possibly whimsical mysteries, except that the apparent crimes and misdeeds may not be criminal upon closer inspection. The highly eccentric, zany characters add a frenzied element that baffles any effort at a calm and reasoned deduction. We not only wonder who committed a crime, but we are unsure of the crime itself. The motivation for the misdeeds is as murky as the crime.<br />We have all encountered tales of eccentric Victorian English clubs. The Club of Queer Trades is a secretive and selective gathering of individuals that have each created an exceedingly original profession. Each one must practice and earn a satisfactory living from his unique profession. Most are preposterous undertakings.<br />The Club of Queer Trades was not well-received by some literary critics. Nonetheless, I would be rather surprised if the fans of G. K. Chesterton's better known works like the Father Brown mysteries, The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond, and The Napoleon of Notting Hill do not find this curious collection to be superbly enjoyable. This Dover edition is substantially enhanced by the addition of 32 rare, full-page, humorous drawings by G. K. Chesterton himself.	2003-11-13
US	49618395	R3BWJ0T9BS5BSO	0525475389	87446481	The Book of Imaginary Beings	Books	3	40	47	N	N	Zoology of the Imagination - Literary Compilation by Borges	Borges has compiled a zoology of the imagination under the title The Book of Imaginary Beings. He arranges these fantastical creatures from world literature alphabetically, but urges the reader to skip around, looking for subjects of interest. Some are familiar creatures: centaurs, nymphs, harpies, sirens, banshee, phoenix, hippogriffs, minotaur, mandrakes, and unicorns. Others I failed to recognize: A Bao A Qu, lamed wufniks, kujata, nagas, odradek, catoblepas, and others.    Ctesias, physician to the Persian emperor Artaxerxes Mnemon, compiled a deficient description of distant India in the fourth century B.C., in which he mentions the crocotta, a blend of a dog and a wolf. The Roman writer Pliny expands on this work by describing a cross between the hyena and antelope.    Kafka tells about an unnamed creature, that is half cat and half lamb, not only in appearance, but also in behavior. C. S. Lewis describes chilling monsters in his fantasy fiction Perelandra. Dante paints a vivid, horrifying picture of Cerberus, a creature with clawed hands that rip the skin of the souls of the damned as they file past him. In The Time Machine H. G. Wells predicts the future split of mankind into the weak, aristocratic Eloi living on the surface, and the carnivorous Morlocks, a race of underground proletarians that feast on the Eloi.    While I enjoyed perusing The Book of Imaginary Beings, this little collection is not among his best works. Perhaps, his structured approach, that of assembling accurate depictions of creatures from literature, unduely prevented Borges from freely exercising his own uniquely creative imagination. Nonetheless, the reader familiar with Borges will find this little book an interesting addition to a larger collection of his works. The Book of Imaginary Beings was co-authored with Margarita Guerrero.    The first edition with 82 topics was published in Mexico in 1957 and titled Handbook of Fantastic Zoology.  In 1967 a second edition with 34 additionalentries was published in Buenos Aires. My 1969 yellowed paperback edition (Penguin Books, UK) is slightly larger with 120 subjects. Newer editions are available.    In 1971-72 Robert Parris composed a chamber work, a suite of seven musical portraits and a final reprise, based on this book and sharing the same title, The Book of Imaginary Beings. The first performance was on May 7, 1972 at the National Gallery of Art in Washington, D.C. during the American Music Festival under the direction of Richard Bales.	2003-11-11
US	49618395	RW74MVHVKNR6W	0803202903	993403406	Every Man in His Humour: A Parallel-Text Edition of the 1601 Quarto and the 1616 Folio (Regents Renaissance Drama)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Two Very Different Versions - Challenging, But Enjoyable	A few months ago I had the good fortune to find a copy of a parallel text edition (Regents Renaissance Drama series by University of Nebraska Press) of the 1601 quarto and the 1616 folio of Every Man In His Humour. My enthusiasm may seem surprising, but I did enjoy this rather obscure work. This play, Ben Jonson's first theatrical success, was first performed in 1598 by the Lord Chamberlain's Men. Remarkably, the cast included Shakespeare, Burbage, and Kemp.      The term humour, derived from the Latin word for fluid, refers to a Medieval and Renaissance medical theory that a man's health and personality were due to the balance (or imbalance) of four fluids, or humours: blood, phlegm, yellow bile (choler), and black bile (melancholy). The Elizabethan audience would have recognized that Jonson's characters were caricatures of various temperaments and personalities.    Jonson later significantly revised this play. My edition compares the two versions on facing pages: the 1601 quarto with a Florentine setting and Italian names, and the 1616 folio with a London setting and English characters. I first tried reading the two versions in parallel, a page from one followed by the equivalent page from the other, but I was soon utterly confused. I began again, reading one version in its entirety before reading the other.    Every Man in His Humour is more challenging than Jonson's better known plays. I was into Act 2 before I began to appreciate the humorous interplay between the characters. The turning point occurred when the servant Musco (weirdly named Brainworm in the London version) disguised himself as a penniless soldier looking for charity. I gradually recognized four intertwined themes:    1) Two young, high-spirited gentlemen, Lorenzo Junior (Edward Kno'well) and Prospero (Wellbred), deliberately encourage the foolish antics of other characters, quietly laughing at them in frequent asides.    2) Meanwhile, Lorenzo Senior (Kno'well) worries that his son is mixing withless reputable acquaintances.     3) Musco (Brainworm) independently embarks on several zany ventures, all involving disguises, to assure that Lorenzo Junior (Edward Kno'well) is beholden to him.     4) And lastly, the merchant Thorello (Thomas Kitely) mistakenly convinces himself that his wife Biancha (Dame Kitely) and his sister Hesperida (Mistress Budget) are being wooed by the foolish mix of characters that descended upon his home. (Shakespeare may have derived the name Othello from Jonson's jealous Thorello.)    For the reader new to Ben Jonson, I suggest starting with either The Alchemist, or Volpone, or possibly Bartholomew  Fair. All three plays are widely available from publishers like Oxford World Classics, the New Mermaids editions, or the Dover Thrift editions (least expensive, but sparse footnotes).	2003-11-07
US	49618395	R2B6YMJMZJLLX5	0292715498	169416369	Dreamtigers (Texas Pan American Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Genius in Fragments and Sketches	Jorge Luis Borges will be remembered as one of the outstanding writers of the twentieth century. I am continually awed by his imagination, by his incredible breadth, and by his command of language.<br />At one point Borges considered this particular collection of miscellany - odd poems, stories, parables, sketches, fragments, and fictional quotations - to be a mirror of his life, and even possibly a work that would outlast his widely admired Ficciones and El Aleph. Dreamtigers is indeed fascinating, but it likely to be more fully appreciated by readers already familiar with Borges. A reader new to Jorge Luis Borges might begin with Ficciones, The Aleph, Labyrinths, or Seven Nights.<br />The prose was translated by Mildred Boyer and the poetry by Harold Morland. The arrangement is by Borges himself, and reflects an association of ideas, not a chronological grouping. Any reader acquainted with his works undoubtedly recognizes that Borges often returns to favorite themes in various guises, sometime deliberately, other times unintentionally. <br />This collection seems more personal and biographical than his better known works. The dedication is to an Argentine poet, long dead, that Borges once unreservedly criticized. The essay Dreamtigers is a personal reflection on the limits of creativity. The Draped Mirrors is a haunting recollection about a friend that suffered  a uniquely personal (from Borges perspective) mental illness. Borges and I explores the confused identity of  Borges the writer and Borges the man. Other essays are less biographical, and reveal his deep fascination with the thoughts and ideas of other writers, especially Homer, Dante, Plato, Coleridge, and Cervantes.<br />Dreamtigers is evenly divided between prose and poetry. Borges began his literary career as a poet and only gradually moved to prose.  Amazingly, his poetry is as remarkable as his prose. Many  poems reflect his vast knowledge and interests - the inevitable passage of time, the game of chess, mirrors, Anglo-Saxon grammar, and Ariosto and the Arabs. Others are more biographical, often touching on themes that were also subjects of essays. The poetic translation by Harold Morland is excellent.	2003-11-05
US	49618395	R1UTXD776HXUCV	0198504446	53590753	The Nine Numbers of the Cosmos	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Review Update, Jan. 2004 - Nine Numbers Now Outdated	Cosmology is in upheaval. In January, 2004 the AAAS journal Science selected the confirmation of dark energy as the scientific breakthrough of 2003. The universe is only 4 percent ordinary matter (galaxies and interstellar dust). Dark energy and exotic matter make up the other 96 percent. The universe is a strange place.    It is great to be an astronomer, or astrophysicist, or cosmologist in heady times like this. But for an author such times are difficult; a book can become outdated in less time than it takes to write it.    In 1999 Michael Rowan-Robinson, Head of the Astrophysics Group at Imperial College, discussed nine numbers that play a critical role in our description of the universe.  Just four years later, with our new understanding of dark energy, this well-written, detailed look at observational astronomy and cosmology needs substantial revision.    We now say the age of the universe is 13.7 billion years plus or minus a few hundred thousand. Just a year ago our best estimate was 10 to 14 billion years. The rate of expansion of the universe is now pinned down at 71 kilometers per second per megaparsec, 10 percent higher than the value in Rowan-Robinson's text (but within his stated margin of error). And how does one now measure the density of the universe?     Should you read this text today? Probably not, even though it does provide a good snapshot of our understanding at the end of the twentieth century. I suggest investing your efforts in the most current literature available.     Possibly Rowan-Robinson will create an updated addition. I hope so.	2003-10-31
US	49618395	R19UDDQJQFS8M6	0198531613	401737496	Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces	Books	4	32	32	N	N	More Rigorous Than Some Introductory Texts	I purchased Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces two years ago. I was unprepared for its rigor.  I am not a mathematics major, but I enjoy reading mathematics. My background includes calculus, linear algebra, differential equations, and other applied mathematics, but I have not had a course in real analysis. W. A. Sutherland intended this text as the next step after analysis.<br />After a brief foray, I retreated, placed Sutherland back on my bookshelf, and attacked some marginally easier introductory texts: Metric Spaces by Victor Bryant, Introduction to Topology by Bert Mendelson, and most recently, several chapters in Introduction to Analysis by Maxwell Rosenlicht. I periodically return to W. A. Sutherland's text to measure my understanding. I am now working on chapter five, Compact Spaces.<br />I doubt that Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces would be foreboding to students that are familiar with real analysis. Sutherland understands that the abstractness and generalization can be difficult and shows concern with motivating the student. He repeatedly attempts to illustrate the value of generalization, especially in the study of continuity.<br />Sutherland often uses a lengthy series of examples of increasing difficulty to illustrate abstract concepts. In his discussion of metric spaces, we begin with Euclidian n-space metrics, and move on to discrete metric spaces, function spaces, and even Hilbert sequence spaces. He introduces open sets and topological spaces in a similar fashion.<br />The author occasionally suggests that the student might wish to make a geometrical diagram to help clarify some subtle point, but Sutherland includes few geometrical drawings in his text. His focus is clearly on proofs using the axioms of metric spaces and topological spaces.<br />Sutherland highlights sections that either require more knowledge of abstract algebra, or for other reasons are thought to be more severe.<br />Despite Sutherland's use of Introduction in the title, I suggest that any reader considering independent study might defer tackling Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces until after completing a more basic text. Possibly a better title might be A Second Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces.ion in the title, I suggest that any reader considering independent study might defer tackling Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces until after completing a more basic text. Possibly a better title might be A Second Introduction to Metric and Topological Spaces.	2003-10-31
US	49618395	RYS39W6PX0KY8	0882950916	273021401	The Rivals (Crofts Classics)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	A Classic Comedy of Manners - Gentle, Humorous Satire	The editor, Alan Downer, cautions the reader (as opposed to a spectator of the play) \\"not to allow himself to be troubled by the labyrinthine mechanics of the plot\\". Enjoy the comic aspects of the moment; the play will take care of itself. Downer argues that Sheridan envisioned The Rivals as a series of comic scenes, not necessarily a tightly woven plot.    In his preface Richard Brinsley Sheridan reminds the readers that this play was not initially well received and, in fact, he had to withdraw the play to remove imperfections. His later version was more successful and today The Rivals is one of the few English comedies from that period that continues to interest modern audiences.    I found the beginning slow. The author's wordy preface was followed by a prologue in which two lawyers plead with the audience to give this play fair consideration. On the tenth night a new prologue replaced the pleading as it was now obvious that the revised play was indeed successful. In Act 1 I had some difficulty keeping track of the characters and I chose to reread the first act before proceeding. Thereafter, the going was much smoother and I began to appreciate the foibles of the characters and their confused machinations.    The protagonist, the young Captain Absolute, was sensible for the most part, although his plan to woo the capricious Lydia Languish was obviously destined for trouble. The other characters included his excitable father Sir Anthony Absolute, his father's patient ward Julia, the silly Mrs. Malaprop, the comic gentleman wooers Faulkland, Acres, and Sir Lucius O'Trigger, and the conniving servants Fag, David, Thomas, and Lucy. While Sheridan does encourage us to laugh at his characters, his satire is gentle. His characters are not at all unlikable, just a little eccentric and possibly not overly intelligent.    I recently read and reviewed Sheridan's enjoyable The School for Scandal and I recommend that the reader new to Sheridan begin with it rather than The Rivals. Both plays are short and can be read with little difficulty with the help of an occasional footnote. For my reading of The Rivals I used the Crofts Classics edition in which Alan Downer provides a useful introduction, a list of key dates in Sheridan's life, footnotes, and a bibliography. I give four stars to The Rivals. I previously rated The School for Scandal as five stars.	2003-10-29
US	49618395	R3FA8TRDEXPM09	0801490618	209235607	French Chivalry: Chivalric Ideals and Practices in Mediaeval France	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Fascinating Look at French Medieval Chivalry	French Chivalry is superb. I have always enjoyed reading medieval history, and I have accepted that many  texts are detailed and scholarly and require substantial effort by the reader.<br />Well-researched and documented, French Chivalry is an exception. Anyone with a modicum of interest in the Middle Ages will have difficulty putting this book aside. Historian Sidney Painter writes with an engaging style that is both informal and scholarly. I read all 172 pages in two days.<br />Painter has created a uniquely fascinating examination of French chivalry, contrasting the chivalric ideal with the actual practice of chivalry by French knights from about 1000 to the mid-1400s.<br />There are only five chapters.  The first chapter, The Nobles of France, portrays the French ruling class at the end of the first millennium as little more than undisciplined warriors. Painter examines the political, economic, and military factors that influenced the development of that remarkable code of behavior that we call chivalry.<br />In chapter 2, Feudal Chivalry, Painter explores the ideals of chivalry that were most readily acceptable to French knights themselves -  prowess in battle, loyalty, generosity, knightly courtesy, and love of glory.<br />Chapter 3 (Religious Chivalry) and 4 (Courtly Love) describe how churchmen and ladies created and advanced their own distinct and rather contradictory conceptions of the perfect nobleman. Despite persistent efforts, the ethical ideals propagated by the ecclesiastical class met with limited success. The ladies did, however, persuade the warrior class to direct more attention away from the battlefield.<br />The final chapter examines how the three somewhat mutually exclusive types of chivalry were reconciled. This story ends as the warrior knight is transformed into (or replaced by) the courtier, a man more concerned with entertaining and pleasing royalty than exhibiting prowess in battle.	2003-10-26
US	49618395	R1C39ZMZ87U9SY	0300017987	888110179	Science Since Babylon: Enlarged Edition	Books	3	9	12	N	N	Wide Ranging Essays on the History of Science	The chapters comprising Science Since Babylon are largely independent essays, some derived from five lectures that Professor Derek de Solla Price presented at Yale University in 1959. In my 1975 edition Price has updated some chapters.     Price begins by speculating that the emergence of science in the West is peculiar, and not the norm for other advanced civilizations. He argues that the blending of Babylonian genius for tedious arithmetic calculations (but dullards at geometry) with the Hellenistic skill with axiomatic geometry was unique and laid the basis for a future Kepler, Newton, and Maxwell, and Einstein. Does more recent study support this thesis?    Next is a story of serendipity. In the oldest library at Cambridge University Professor Price unexpectedly discovered a long forgotten document, a beautifully handwritten description in Middle English of a planetary equatorium, a companion device to the astrolabe. Even more surprising, that writer is now thought to have been Chaucer.     In another seemingly improbable account Derek de Solla Price argues that a poorly preserved Greek clockwork device recovered in 1900 from a sunken ship dating from about 65 B.C. was actually a bronze gear-based computing machine that exhibited the motions of the sun and the moon, and possibly the visible planets. (Update: A team of British, Greek and American researchers in 2006 deciphered inscriptions and reconstructed the gear functions, revealing \\"an unexpected degree of technical sophistication for the period\\".  The researchers were led by the mathematician and filmmaker Tony Freeth and the astronomer Mike G. Edmunds, both of the University of Cardiff, Wales.)    The following two essays are detailed histories of narrow topics and required more effort. The first was the development of automata (devices that move by themselves) from Hellenistic times to the European Medieval period and into the Renaissance.  The second topic was the significance of scientific talismans andsymbolisms (especially pentagons, hexagons, and octagons) in expressing complex ideas by means other than literate (written) or quantitative (mathematical) methods.     The fifth essay argues that the roots of that remarkable inventive period in America (exemplified by Yankee ingenuity) can be traced back to the Renaissance. I was initially skeptical, but Price does show that similar explosive periods of invention by artisans and tradesmen occurred in the medieval and Renaissance periods.    The last four essays address more general topics that now appear dated, but were interesting nonetheless:     The Difference Between Science and Technology -  Scientists leave detailed tracks as they publish their work to gain credit, while technologists keep their work secret from competitors.  Consequently, the historian must use different investigative techniques for examining past scientific discoveries as opposed to researching inventions.    The Mutations of Science - In the late 1800s there appeared to be no remaining major problems in physics, only some minor loose ends to resolve. Beginning with the startling discovery of x-rays, Price outlines how physics suddenly awoke from its doldrums. He also offers a fascinating account of the discovery of N-rays, a major debacle in French science.    The Diseases of Science - The remarkable exponential growth (doubling every twelve years) in science publications in the last two centuries cannot continue. Price speculates that electronic publishing might help in the short term. (This article was written before the advent of the Internet.)    The Humanities of Science - The last essay argues for greater blending of science and humanities curricula and encourages more students to enter the new field of history of science.	2003-10-25
US	49618395	RPW7B3LW4KV69	0486275450	426885617	Favorite Father Brown Stories (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Six Delightful Father Brown Stories - Great Introduction	G. K. Chesterton created more than fifty entertaining Father Brown stories. This Dover Thrift Edition offers six delightful short stories illustrating the deductive genius of this quiet, amusing, slightly eccentric, contemporary of Sherlock Holmes. <br />Written in the early 1900s, these short stories move more slowly than many modern mysteries. Chesterton may even sidetrack to explore a moral issue or moral ambiguity. But beware. Father Brown, a man of the church, is not entirely nave and innocent. Like Sherlock Holmes, he is a keen observer. The reader will need to remain alert to keep pace with his remarkable deductions.<br />The first two stories, The Blue Cross and The Sins of Prince Saradine, come from the first twelve Father Brown stories, published as The Innocence of Father Brown (1911). The earliest stories often feature Flambeau as a dazzling, brilliant arch criminal. Later, Flambeau abandons his risky career and becomes a constant companion to Chesterton's remarkable cleric.<br />The last four stories are taken from the second Father Brown collection, The Wisdom of Father Brown (1914). The Sign of the Broken Sword reveals a startling crime. The Man in the Passage offers a surprising and amusing solution to conflicting testimony. The Perishing of the Pendragons provides mayhem and danger in an unlikely setting. Hopefully, The Salad of Colonel Cray will not be found in most cookbooks.<br />I highly recommend this little Dover edition to anyone new to Father Brown. Once acquainted, the reader can then look elsewhere for larger collections.	2003-10-20
US	49618395	R11J1ZOLM0V5OV	0802150888	627764979	The Physicists	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Uniquely Playful, Entertaining, Suspenseful, and Thoughtful	Three physicists have been confined to a very expensive posh mental institution, Les Cerisiers. Herbert George Beutler says he is Isaac Newton, but he knows that he is really Einstein. He adopted the guise of Newton to avoid upsetting another patient, Ernst Heinrich Ernesti, who claims he is Einstein. The third, Johann Wilhelm Mobius is himself.  As a long term patient, he enjoys frequent visions of King Solomon.<br />I had the great fortune of knowing little about the plot. I was continuously entertained by the playful unraveling of a murder mystery. I urge you to avoid learning more. The imagination of Durrenmatt is quite remarkable. He weaves an entertainingly unpredictable story. <br />This short play warrants reading more than once, even more than twice, as the Swiss playwright Friedrich Durrenmatt not only entertains us, but explores fundamental questions regarding the role of science in modern society.  The Physicists was written in 1962 when the world faced the possibility of nuclear war at any moment. The Physicists has been produced at the London Royal Court Theatre, on Broadway, and by many university theatre departments. I intend to become acquainted with the plays of Friedrich Durrenmatt.	2003-10-14
US	49618395	R15WJ036994WYN	0385474296	745858417	Poetry of the Universe: A Mathematical Exploration of the Cosmos	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Shape and Form - Geometry and Cosmology	This is a story of shape and form. The Poetry of the Universe answers two related questions: What is the shape of the universe and what do we mean by the curvature of space?    During the great period of global exploration the Europeans placed rigorous demands on maps, demands that stretched the capabilities of mathematicians. Robert Osserman offers a striking parallel between that endeavor and our modern efforts to unravel the form and structure of the universe.    Osserman's description of the evolution of abstract geometries is fascinating. We learn about the remarkable contributions of the combined genius of Euler, Gauss, Lobachevsky, Bolyai, Riemann, Minkowski, and Einstein to our new understanding of cosmology. Gradually, Osserman brings us full circle from the problem of representing a spherical (or elliptical) earth on a Euclidian flat map to the more difficult problem of representing an expanding universe characterized as a hypersphere.     This is a good little book and I can recommend it to a wide audience. Osserman conveys the beauty and excitement of mathematics without delving into equations.  In parallel, he provides expanded footnotes in an appendix for the mathematically inclined. I suggest reading the appendix after completing each chapter, mathematically inclined or not.     In keeping with his title, he offers pertinent, often poetic quotes in each chapter such as:  Euclid alone has looked on Beauty bare.  Pure mathematics is, in its way, the poetry of logical ideas. The most distinct and beautiful statement of any truth must take at last the mathematical form. (By Edna St. Vincent Millay, Albert Einstein, and Henry David Thoreau.)	2003-10-13
US	49618395	R2MERI4EKB1OGF	0140150447	324220782	The Portable Milton (Portable Library)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Good Collection, Excellent Commentary, But No Footnotes	The Portable Milton has been in print more than fifty years. The collection is quite good, containing all of John Milton's major poems and most of his minor poems. Unlike some collections, the long poems Paradise Lost, Paradise Regained, Samson Agonistes, and Comus are not abridged. The editor, Douglas Bush, has translated the few poems that Milton published in Latin. Milton's prose works include Of Education, Areopagitica, and three autobiographical essays. <br />In my copy (23rd printing, 1974) the font size is quite acceptable and easy to read. Reading Milton can be challenging and a major drawback to this collection is the absence of footnotes. However, the text does include a helpful 25-page glossary of less familiar words and proper names.<br />The 28-page introduction by Professor Bush is excellent and provides a firm historical, political, and religious foundation to the works of Milton. The discussion of Milton's evolving religious beliefs, especially as reflected in his epic Paradise Lost, was quite good.<br />You may want to consider alternative collections. Other choices, arranged by price, are below.<br />The Dover Thrift Edition, titled Selected Poems, is a bargain. Excluding the lengthy epic poems Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, this little book provides nearly all of John Milton's poetry that you are likely to encounter, including the 45-page dramatic poem Samson Agonistes. The footnotes are sparse.<br />I also like Selected Poetry (World's Classics, 1997) edited by Jonathan Goldberg and Stephen Orgel. This inexpensive book offers a nearly complete collection of John Milton's English poetry. The price is low, the font size is adequate, and best of all it offers extensive annotation, a real asset to most readers. The lengthy Paradise Lost has been moderately abridged.<br />Looking for an outstanding edition of Paradise Lost?  I highly recommend the Norton Critical Edition of Paradise Lost, superbly edited by Scott Elledge. Examine the reader reviews and you will probably buy a copy.<br />I am not personally familiar with The Complete Poems and Major Prose of John Milton, edited by Merritt Y. Hughes, but it appears worth investigating. The reader reviews are quite favorable, but it is somewhat expensive.	2003-10-12
US	49618395	R13R7QPHHZQ6MP	155971641X	285203480	Bighorn Sheep: Mountain Monarchs (Northword Wildlife Series)	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Good Introduction to Bighorn Sheep - Beautiful Photography	We were doing some late spring climbing in Death Canyon. Bighorn sheep were rare enough in the Tetons in the late 1960s that park rangers asked us to report back if we encountered them. We saw no evidence of sheep. Thirty five years later my son observes bighorn sheep above him in in a narrow couloir in upper Targhee Canyon, slightly below the pass with Death Canyon. Casually mentioning this sighting to a Teton ranger, he learns that bighorn sheep are now frequently observed.<br />Bighorn sheep are returning to their native North American habitats. The all-time low of 9,000 bighorn sheep in 1960 has been replaced today by an impressive number of 70,000 sheep. Excessive hunting was partly responsible for their decline, but the primary cause had been disease from domestic sheep. Hunting today is well managed; disease can still completely eliminate a small herd.<br />Mountain Monarchs: Bighorn Sheep is an attractive, soft cover, glossy publication by NorthWord  Wildlife Series. Beautiful photography is found on nearly every page. <br />The author, Bert Gildart, targets a general audience that shares his enthusiasm for native wildlife. At some points I found his explanations, like the food pyramid, to be too basic. Overall his style remains interesting, especially his personal observations of sheep behavior. He is careful to attribute his facts to specific wildlife biologists and naturalists. <br />Mountain Monarchs: Bighorn Sheep is a good introduction to a remarkable animal. I particularly liked the section on the adaptation of the bighorn sheep to its harsh environment and the descriptions of the incredible battles between males for dominance. I now understand more about interpreting the shape and detailed appearance of the magnificently curved horns of the bighorn sheep. The appendix contains an updated population census for the varieties of wild sheep by state and province.	2003-10-06
US	49618395	R20KM4Z29BTI8F	0140437258	753193001	Selected Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	11	12	N	N	An Excellent Collection - See Alternatives Also	There are many good collections of the poetry of John Keats. This selection by John Barnard is quite good and has long served as a text for college classes.<br />Barnard writes that the poetry of John Keats is uniformly serious and always poetic. Keats' prime concern was art and beauty. The casual reader may not even notice certain passages that resulted in severe political criticism by the Tory press and other supporters of Charles II.<br />The real popularity of this particular collection is the poetry of Keats himself. Barnard has assembled an excellent collection, one that is fully representative of Keats' remarkable genius. He largely avoided the longer poems of John Keats with the exception of Endymion in which he offers Book 1 in its entirety, but only extracts from Books 2, 3, and 4. Nonetheless, this abridged version of Endymion still exceeds 2000 lines.<br />Looking for alternative collections?  John Barnard has also compiled John Keats, The Complete Poems. It was also published by Penguin Classics. It is about 750 pages, more than three times as long as Selected Poems. For example, the full Endymion is some 50 pages longer than the abridged version in Selected Poems. Barnard's explanatory notes in this collection are quite extensive, totaling nearly 200 pages in reduced print size. There is also a wide ranging appendix exceeding 50 pages, including selected letters of John Keats.<br />Another good choice is published by Modern Library. Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats is actually a very good choice and is indeed my favorite. The introduction by John Hirsch is more than 25 pages and is quite helpful. I particularly like the explanatory notes by Jim Pollock. They are less extensive than those in Barnard's The Complete Poems, but I found them most useful.	2003-10-03
US	49618395	R1HAG20UR0WRGK	0486277240	582598023	Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy	Books	3	165	170	N	N	Substantial effort required.  Careful reading necessary.	Bertrand Russell and Alfred North Whitehead created the monumental work Principia Mathematica (1910-1913), the ambitious and comprehensive effort to provide a detailed reduction of the whole of mathematics to logic. In 1919 Russell was jailed for antiwar protests and while in prison he wrote Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy, a seminal work in the field for more than 70 years.<br />I have devoted substantial time and effort to this 200 page book. Unless you are a student of logic, this book may not be for you. I suggest alternatives below. <br />I stayed the course and worked my way through each chapter, sometimes backing up, and often repeating several chapters before advancing again. Bertrand Russell is admired for his eloquence and style. Nonetheless, I can assure you that a methodical reading will require much effort.<br />I was forewarned. At one point a friend and colleague, a previous professor of mathematics at Texas A&M, expressed surprise that I was tackling this particular book. He considered Russell's work to be dated and not particularly easy going. I continued plodding along.<br />Russell begins with familiar ground, Peano's effort to derive the entire theory of natural numbers from five premises and three undefined terms (primitives). Russell demonstrates why Peano's approach fails to serve as an adequate basis for arithmetic. <br />In chapter 2 Russell introduces the work of Frege, who first succeeded in logicising arithmetic. We are led to a definition of number: the number of a class is the class of all those classes that are similar to it, or more simply, a number is anything which is the number of some class.<br />The third chapter introduces properties termed hereditary, posterity, and inductive. After some effort, we define the natural numbers as those to which proofs by mathematical induction can be applied. We also learn that mathematical induction is not valid for infinite numbers.<br />Russell now addresses the serial character of natural numbers, a characteristic involving finding or construction of an asymmetrical transitive connected relation.<br />In Chapters 5 and 6 Russell distinguished between cardinal numbers (the earlier definition of number) and relation numbers (also called ordinal numbers). I had difficulty with the interplay between the relations aliorelative, transitive, asymmetrical, square, and connected. For example, an asymmetrical relation is the same thing as a relation whose square is an aliorelative.<br />In chapter 7 I was initially surprised by Russell's assertion that the common belief that the complex numbers include the real numbers, the real numbers include the rational numbers, and the rational numbers include the natural numbers is erroneous and must be discarded.<br />The next thee chapters - infinite cardinal numbers, infinite series and ordinals, and limits and continuity -  were more difficult. Eight more chapters follow.<br />Introduction to Mathematical Philosophy is philosophy, logic, and mathematics. It investigates the logical foundations of mathematics. It requires very careful reading. <br />I can suggest alternatives. Howard Eves in his delightful Foundations and Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics offers an excellent chapter titled Logic and Philosophy that compares three approaches - Logicism (Russell and Whitehead), Intuitionism (Brouwer and Heyting), and Formalism (Hilbert's Grundlagen der Geometrie). He also provides in an appendix a short overview of Godel's theorems (1931) which demonstrated that no complete or consistent axiomatic development of mathematics is attainable. <br />I also highly recommend Godel's Proof, a short book by Ernest Nagel and James R. Newman. Godel's Proof demonstrates that Russell and Whitehead's Principia Mathematica must necessarily be incomplete and inconsistent.	2003-10-02
US	49618395	R1EJDJUYI2YQDW	0673053970	686550120	Introduction to Analysis	Books	4	71	72	N	N	Solid Introduction to Metric Spaces and Continuous Functions	Introduction to Analysis by Maxwell Rosenlicht is another bargain from Dover Publications. I used this inexpensive mathematics reprint to help fill in gaps in my background before tackling more advanced mathematics. I found the first 150 pages to be challenging, but manageable. I had less success with the last 100 pages.<br /><br />My college work was limited to applied mathematics, but in recent years I have developed some familiarity with metric spaces, topology, and analysis. (I previously reviewed Metric Spaces by Victor Bryant and Introduction to Topology by Bert Mendelson.)<br /><br />Throughout his text Rosenlicht emphasizes how the same idea or theorem can be formulated in various ways. I found his approach to be quite helpful in clarifying more abstract representations of key ideas.<br /><br />The first two chapters review set theory and the real number system and should be familiar to many readers. However, Chapter 3 (Metric Spaces) and 4 (Continuous Functions) are critical and require substantially more effort. My pace slowed dramatically.<br /><br />For the reader new to metric spaces, Chapter 3 will likely be challenging, although metric space concepts are not really that difficult, just unfamiliar.<br /><br />Rosenlicht demonstrates how statements concerning the open subsets of a metric space can be translated into statements concerning closed subsets, or alternatively into ones concerning sequences of points and their limits. Rosenlicht closes Chapter 3 with definitions and discussions of Cauchy sequences, completeness, compactness, and connectedness.<br /><br />Rosenlicht begins Chapter 4 by illustrating that the familiar epsilon-delta definition of continuity of functions can be reformulated using the metric space open ball concept, or by using open subsets in metric spaces. He further explores the interdependence of theorems about continuity, limits, and convergent sequences. Chapter 4 concludes with discussions on continuous functions on a compact metric space and on continuous sequences of functions (analogous to sequences of points).<br /><br />In chapters 5 (Differentiation) and 6 (Riemann Integration) we discuss the fundamental ideas of calculus using concepts and theorems introduced in the previous chapters. At this point I revisited a favorite calculus book by Salas, Hille, and Etgen. I was pleased to find that I now had greater insight into more advanced topics. Rosenlicht was indeed helping me.<br /><br />Nonetheless, I had substantial difficulty with the longer and more complex proofs common in the remaining 100 pages, chapters titled Interchange of Limit Operations, the Method of Successive Approximations, Partial Differentiation, and Multiple Integrals. I again visited other textbooks, but this time looking for help with power series, the fixed point theorem, and the implicit function theorem. Although familiar with partial differentiation and multiple integration, I only skimmed the final chapters. I hope to return to Rosenlicht later after exploring another text on analysis.<br /><br />I recommend Introduction to Analysis, especially for students looking for a review of analysis. This Dover reprint is a good buy, even if like me, you find the later chapters to be rather difficult.f functions (analogous to sequences of points).    In chapters 5 (Differentiation) and 6 (Riemann Integration) we discuss the fundamental ideas of calculus using concepts and theorems introduced in the previous chapters. At this point I revisited a favorite calculus book by Salas, Hille, and Etgen. I was pleased to find that I now had greater insight into more advanced topics. Rosenlicht was indeed helping me.     Nonetheless, I had substantial difficulty with the longer and more complex proofs common in the remaining 100 pages, chapters titled Interchange of Limit Operations, the Method of Successive Approximations, Partial Differentiation, and Multiple Integrals. I again visited other textbooks, but this time looking for help with power series, the fixed point theorem, and the implicit function theorem. Although familiar with partial differentiation and multiple integration, I only skimmed the final chapters. I hope to return to Rosenlicht later after exploring another text on analysis.    I recommend Introduction to Analysis, especially for students looking for a review of analysis. This Dover reprint is a good buy, even if like me, you find the later chapters to be rather difficult.	2003-09-27
US	49618395	R3D7230NSMIU46	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Guilty of Political Divergencies - Penalty is Death	A faded photograph reveals the bearded, solemn, serious men that were the delegates to the first Congress of the Party. It is decades later and only a few like Comrade Nicolas Salmanovitch Rubashov have survived. Late one night Rubashov is awakened, arrested, and taken to cell number 404. Like so many others, he now expects to be interrogated, tortured, and shot. Harsh steps echo down the prison corridor; this time it is only the guard bringing soup.    Darkness at Noon is an authentic and chilling look at Stalin's Russia in the late 1930s. Arthur Koestler completed this superb historical fiction in Paris as WWII was just beginning. In a short forward he says that the characters in this book are fictitious, but that the historical circumstances which determined their actions are real. The life of the man N. S. Rubashov is the synthesis of the lives of a number of men that were victims of the so-called Moscow Trials. Several of them were personally known to the author. He dedicates this book to their memory.    Suffering from a toothache, subjected to endless interrogation, deprived of sleep, Rubashov struggles to delay his inevitable final confession. He questions his own past and motivations. Was he unconsciously disloyal?  Is he guilty? Does it matter whether he is guilty? Should he remain silent, argue, or simply capitulate?     Rubashov finds meaning in politics, history, and philosophy. We see him wrestling with the meaning of suffering, senseless suffering versus meaningful suffering. We sympathize with him as he questions the morality of betraying his life long beliefs, despite his recognition that he himself has been betrayed. He clearly knows that he is guilty of betraying others. In his exhausted and muddled state, his motivation for living seems driven by a desire to explore more fully a new idea, the law of the relative maturity of the masses. He only needs time to sort out his questions and to resolve his doubts.    Koestler reveals much about Rubashovthrough flashbacks. We recognize that his own ethics and morality became victims as he participated in the destruction of well-meaning, loyal party members that unintentionally became guilty of political divergencies. He allows his lover to be imprisoned, and even joins the chorus that condemns her. Nonetheless, Koestler persuades us to have sympathy for Rubashov, now a victim of his own ideology.    I was unfamiliar with Arthur Koestler and I was unprepared when I opened this little book. I was captivated as Rubashov gradually awoke from a disturbing dream of betrayal, only to discover that he was being awakened by the secret police. I carried Darkness at Noon to work and shared it with a colleague. His teenage son was the next reader. Darkness at Noon is a classic that you will share with others.	2003-09-23
US	49618395	R18IAJ3RDITESC	0375758267	45103098	Kingdom of Shadows	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Byzantine Beginnings to WWII - Superb Historical Spy Novel	This is my second reading. I returned to Kingdom of Shadows after reading Robert D. Kaplan's influential Balkan Ghosts, A Journey Through History.  I read Balkan Ghosts, partly due to my fascination with the historical and geographical details in the novels of Alan Furst. <br />Nicholas Morath is half-owner of the Agence Courtmain, a small and reasonably prosperous advertising agency, an unexpected gift from his Uncle Janos Polanyi, Count Polanyi, a Hungarian diplomat in Paris. Nicholas admires his aging uncle and willingly assists him in various efforts. We readers, along with Nicholas himself, only poorly understand the full purpose of these ventures into central Europe. Hitler's aggressive behavior threatens Hungary, still recovering from its defeat in World War I. Through convoluted plots Count Polanyi quietly battles others willing to align Hungary with Hitler to regain territory lost after World War I.<br />Alan Furst redefines the historical spy novel, superbly melding history and geography into a riveting novel. The best analogy may be a comparison with classic black and white film noir, an atmosphere of darkness and despair. Nicholas struggles to carry out his missions, but each action only advances Hungary closer to an inevitable catastrophe.<br />Reading an Alan Furst novel is a delight. He provides a fascinating story of espionage embedded in a realistic historical, cultural, and geographical matrix. I have now read three books by Furst. They are all excellent.  Kingdom of Shadows is my favorite.	2003-09-12
US	49618395	R25BHD8RX38K8A	0375760008	836911555	Night Soldiers: A Novel	Books	4	6	6	N	N	A Little Too Long - Not Quite Five Stars	Night Soldiers is nearly twice as long as The World at Night and Kingdom of Shadows. It is epic in scope and spans more than a decade.<br />Alan Furst elsewhere mentioned his respect for the remarkable novel Darkness at Noon by Arthur Koestler (1940). Night Soldiers was obviously influenced by Koestler, but Furst manages to capture the spirit of Darkness at Noon without borrowing from its plot.<br />I have now read three novels by Alan Furst. His stories offer interesting plots, but the primary focus is always his protagonist. And yet, I suspect what one remembers most about his works is the authentic setting, a remarkable blend of European history, culture, and geography. <br />Khristo Stoianev flees local fascists responsible for the death of his younger brother in the small town of Vidin in Bulgaria.  It is 1934. Recruited and trained by the Stalin's NKVD, he serves in the Spanish Civil War, and later flees to Paris as his mentors become victims of Stalin's purges. Reluctantly he becomes involved in a Bulgarian plot to intercept Soviet payments to their secret agents in Paris. World War II and German occupation follows, and Stoianev now joins the French Resistance. At some point Stoianev began to seem less authentic to me than were the primary characters in other novels by Furst. Possibly the story was simply too long.<br />Nonetheless, Night Soldiers is a chilling portrait of Stalin's dictatorship. Europe in the 1930s and 1940s was trapped between the brutal dictatorships of Hitler and Stalin. The choices were few.<BR> <BR>I highly recommend the superb historical spy fiction of Alan Furst. Reading his novels is great fun and additionally we become students of history, the history of European civilization engaged in self-destruction.	2003-09-12
US	49618395	RVD025MEQ219D	0375758585	403242172	The World at Night: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	German Occupation - Vivid Portrait of Paris, 1940	In the carefully researched novels by Alan Furst we encounter men and women facing extraordinary situations, individuals overwhelmed by historical events. The World at Night makes good reading and offers an intriguing look at France during the first year of occupation.<br />Jean Claude Casson, a producer of moderately successful movies, is awakened by news that German forces are attacking. Within days he is conscripted into military service and engaged in filming a documentary on the front line. The French forces crumble and Casson becomes part of the chaotic retreat.<br />This rapid collapse of France is followed by German occupation. Furst paints a vivid picture of winter 1940-41 in Paris, a remarkably cold winter, made worse by severe food and fuel shortages. Casson survives, but faces the moral dilemma inherent to all living under military occupation.  What activities are just and what activities constitute collaboration with the enemy?<br />Casson reluctantly agrees to carry money into Spain for the Resistance. We travel with him, unprepared for contingencies, essentially naive. With each step Casson is closer to disaster. He survives again, but only to become entangled with German counter espionage efforts.<br />Jean Claude Casson was not completely satisfactory as a protagonist. He wanders erratically from one woman to another, a behavior shared by key characters in other stories by Alan Furst. His rather sudden deepening love for Citrine was a critical turning point in the plot, but was not entirely convincing. I consequently found the ending abrupt and somewhat implausible.<br />Despite this reservation, I highly recommend The World at Night. Alan Furst has created a fascinating portrait of wartime France, not the typical picture of resistance fighters destroying bridges, but a more authentic examination of life under occupation. The World at Night is good history as well as entertaining reading.	2003-09-12
US	49618395	R37PO753JEC4CS	0679749810	806639526	Balkan Ghosts: A Journey Through History	Books	5	17	21	N	N	Provocative, Controversial - Sobering Balkan Travels	During the 1990s the Balkans again were center stage. We learned about Slobodan Milosevic, the 1389 Battle of Kosovo, Croatia's unsavory past with the Ustashe, Radovan Karadzic, besieged Sarajevo, the Dayton Accords, and a host of other bewildering events, personalities, and locations.<br />Why did the Balkans explode again? Balkan Ghosts, A Journey Through History (1993) offers a sensitive and sympathetic, but nonetheless chilling look at Balkan history. Despite the recent collapse of the Soviet Union, the Balkans, a geographically complex mix of religious and ethnic groups, were still largely quiet in 1993 when Kaplan published his unsettling prognosis.<br />Kaplan has been widely acclaimed for this portrayal of the modern Balkans and he is recognized for his influence on American foreign policy. His writing is superb, possibly giving an undue weight and significance to Kaplan's historical and political analysis.<br />But, others argue that Kaplan - with his inherent Western bias - cannot understand and appreciate the Balkans. Others blame the rivalry of great powers - the Ottoman Empire, Austria-Hungary, Hitler's Germany, Czarist Russia, the Soviet empire, and American imperialism. Leave us alone and we will resolve our issues ourselves.<br />Having read Balkan Ghosts, I am not surprised by these disparate reviews. Seemingly everyone views the Balkans through flawed lenses, all distorted by a long history of religious and ethnic warfare, acts of great cruelty, shifting alliances and borders, and continual oppression. Reading Balkan Ghosts, I wondered whether the tenacious grip of history will ever be broken. <br />Kaplan is certainly provocative. He argues that the Balkans are only comprehensible in terms of the past. Everyone everywhere thrusts maps forward, depicting larger boundaries, reflecting past glories. For each ethnic group, history begins at the zenith of past glories, the maximum territorial extent. <br />He claims that modern terrorism began in the Balkans. Radical clergy has its birthplace here also. Classical Greece so prevalent in Western thought is mythology; it ceased to exist during the past 1500 years. Greece today is as much a part of the Balkans as is Bulgaria and Romania.<br />As we travel with Kaplan across Croatia, Serbia, Macedonia, Albania, Romania, Bulgaria, and Greece, he looks for meaningful patterns underlying the complex mosaic of historical forces. He incorporates intriguing analysis and comments of earlier travelers, notably from Dame Rebecca West's travels immediately before WWI, from Walter Starkie's travels with Gypsies through Hungary and Romania in 1929, and from commentary by various journalists spanning the last century.<br />I was captivated by Balkan Ghosts and it is hard imagine a more riveting introduction to the Balkans. I am compelled to read more and I hope to become familiar with writings by Balkan authors. I highly recommend Robert Kaplan's remarkable work.	2003-09-01
US	49618395	R2FRZVNX19QOFJ	0930330706	620005095	Drury Lane's Last Case (Library of Crime Classics)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Fast Paced, Captivating Plot - Grand Finale	Drury Lane's Last Case offers a fast paced conclusion to the entertaining Drury Lane stories. The plot continued to twist and turn, introducing one surprise after another. I was able to unravel some critical clues and get hints of possible solutions, but the ending came as a surprise. I enjoyed the four Drury Lane stories - The Tragedy of X, The Tragedy of Y, The Tragedy of Z, and this final mystery. I regret that the authors chose to conclude the Drury Lane series, but I can take solace in that it allowed time for more Ellery mysteries.<br />I have been recently reading and reviewing the early Ellery Queen stories written in the 1930s. Drury Lane's Last case exhibits elements common to that period including slang (ten spot, smackers, simoleons, green boys) supposedly spoken by the criminal underclass, rather gruff and forceful police tactics, and a chaste love affair between a modern young woman (Inspector Thumm's daughter) and her young man.<br />We met Patience Thumm in the The Tragedy of Z and I was a little impatient with her character in my previous Drury Lane review. I am apparently becoming a bit soft-hearted and I now find myself appreciating her contributions to the plot. I am impressed with her quick mind and deductive ability. I may need to revisit The Tragedy of Z.<br />The Drury Lane mysteries were written as contemporary fiction and I remained alert for cultural and technological references to the 1930s.  For example, an alibi was solid as it was obviously impossible to cross the Atlantic in one day. A detectograph is apparently some forerunner of the tape recorder.  We encounter rush telegrams rather than cell phones.  A holograph has nothing to do with holograms; it is a written signature. The word telephone is being shortened to phone. The term holocaust describes a damaging fire, nothing more. <br />I don't normally subscribe to the necessity of reading stories in order, but I do recommend beginning with The Tragedy of X and concluding with DruryLane's Last Case. The early Ellery Queen mysteries are not easy to find, especially the Drury Lane stories. They do exist as Ellery Queen was hugely popular from the 1930s through the 1960s. Reprinted paperback editions from the 1970s are still floating about. I keep expecting to see anniversary reprints. Whatever sleuthing efforts are necessary to find these classics, I am certain that you will be aptly rewarded.	2003-09-01
US	49618395	R1PWTJG2RDVMDD	0387982957	828038201	Understanding the Universe: An Introduction to Physics and Astrophysics (Supplement; 10)	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Unique Introduction to Astrophysics - Calculus Not Required	Science, mathematics, and engineering majors typically have little time for the more advanced, and more interesting humanities courses. Humanities majors are typically in a worse situation. In addition to scheduling difficulties, most do not have sufficient mathematical maturity to undertake first year classes in physics, chemistry, and calculus, much less the more advanced (and decidedly more interesting) topics like astrophysics, quantum physics, quantum chemistry, and abstract mathematics. <br />James Seaborn has created a unique text that targets humanities majors - Understanding the Universe, An Introduction to Physics and Astrophysics. Calculus is not necessary; only that level of high school mathematics generally required for college admissions. We learn the principles of physics, not in the standard format (mechanics followed by  thermodynamics, vibrations and waves, electromagnetics, optics, and modern physics), but rather in the fascinating context of exploring the universe.<br />Seaborn does not skirt mathematics and the student will need to work, but no more than would be required in studying the poetry of William Blake, comparative religions, economic causes of the Civil War, the writings of Jorge Luis Borges, or other more advanced classes in the humanities.<br />Seaborn has that rare and remarkable ability to present complex and difficult topics with clarity and humor.  His writing reminds me of Richard Feynman. His chapters are short and easily digestible. The example problems are well-chosen. I highly recommend this text for students looking for an introduction to physics, or astrophysics, or astronomy. It is really quite exceptional. I suspect that many science majors would also appreciate this short introduction to astrophysics.	2003-08-31
US	49618395	R2IVVY9F3QVBT3	0943972132	676311837	A Field Guide to Wildflowers of the Rocky Mountains (Natural History Guides)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Very Helpful, Compact Guidebook - Worth the Higher Cost	Over a period of six days we hiked 41 miles on Teton trails across open stretches in Jackson Hole and through dark forests and over high mountain passes. Everywhere we saw wildflowers - not the same wildflowers, but a changing mix reflecting differences in microclimate, especially as we climbed above the tree line.<br />Fortunately, my wife was well-prepared and carried a copy of A Field Guide to Wildflowers of the Rocky Mountains, an excellent guidebook with full-color photos of 300 species of wildflowers scattered throughout the Rocky Mountains of North America.  Only rarely did we encounter flowers that posed identification problems. (Useful hint: stopping to examine a particular wildflower is a perfect excuse for an unscheduled, but desperately needed rest break, especially at the higher elevations.)<br />Many guidebooks group the color photos together; the descriptive text is elsewhere and the reader is continually paging back and forth. The arrangement in Carl Schreier's field guide is especially useful for the hiker: the text and photo are on the same page making it possible to look at the wildflower, find the photo, and even read the text while continuing to move along the trail.<br />Ink drawings of each plant accompany the color photos to make identification easier. The relatively short overview (about 15 pages) highlights key anatomical features that help differentiate individual families and species of wildflowers. The detailed glossary of technical terms is quite helpful.<br />Schreier's guidebook (second edition, 2002) is widely available on the internet. Like many field guides, it is fairly expensive; used copies (1996 edition) can also be purchased.  <br />In previous years we used guidebooks authored by Richard J. Shaw (Wildflowers of Grand Teton and Yellowstone National Parks - ISBN 0-937512-05-2, and Plants of Yellowstone and Grand Teton National Parks - ISBN 0-937512-02-8. They contain substantially fewer photos, but are less expensive.	2003-08-22
US	49618395	R2Z3FS0AEX6O0W	0486266877	888767190	The School for Scandal (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Easy to Read - Great Comedy More Than Two Centuries Later	The School for Scandal was a pleasant surprise. We meet devious and unscrupulous characters, not the ragtag pickpockets found in later stories by Dickens, but self-centered members of the leisure class in London. The cast includes the appropriately named Lady Sneerwell, Mr. Snake, Mr. Crabtree, Sir Benjamin Backbite, Mrs. Candour, and the superficial Mr. Surface - individuals all too capable of undermining the most refined and honest reputations with innuendoes and ingenious fabrications.<br />Unlike the literature and poetry of the preceding centuries, footnotes are not needed for this late eighteenth century play. I read the entire play in a single session, and clearly this is a comedy to be relished, one whose enjoyment comes as naturally today as when it was first staged at Drury Lane theater in London in 1777. <br />Why does Richard Brinsley Sheridan's play still resonate with today's audience?  Sheridan offers a deliciously humorous look at that fascinating and seemingly unchanging human characteristic, the propensity to gossip, to tell tales about others with only limited concern for the truth. Like Mrs. Candour, we all claim to abhor gossip, and would not ourselves consider creating fictitious tales, but are we immune from conveying stories about others, even stories which are suspect?<br />Lady Sneerwell rationalizes: Wounded myself in the early part of my life by the envenomed tongue of slander, I have since known no pleasure equal to the reducing others to the level of my own injured reputation.  <br />Mr. Snake, another memorable villain, explains: I beg your ladyship ten thousand pardons: you paid me extremely liberally for the lie in question, but I unfortunately have been offered double to speak the truth.<br />The School for Scandal is a classic example of an English comedy of manners. The dialogue is witty and entertaining. The plot is elaborate and contrived, but always maintains interest and momentum as Sheridan brings his intertwined subplots toan entertaining and satisfactory conclusion. Along the way we encounter devious plots and counterplots, disguised identities, and outrageous behavior. It is great fun.	2003-08-21
US	49618395	RQ0OLADYS0GLP	9997528484	543454092	Egyptian Cross Mystery	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Vintage Ellery Queen - Good Plot and Eccentric Characters	I quite enjoyed The Egyptian Cross Mystery. I developed several plausible solutions, but none which I could clearly prove through a sequence of logical deductions. I had possibilities, I had partial solutions, and I had pieces of evidence, but I was unable to establish an irrefutable chain of logic. And as fans of Ellery Queen know, deduction requires the application of impeccable logic. For the record: none of my possibilities, nor partial solutions, were correct. I was surprised by the solution.<br />The Egyptian Cross Mystery offers a fast-paced unpredictable plot, a plethora of eccentric characters, and brilliant deductions by Ellery himself. I give it five stars.<br />The Egyptian Cross Mystery is a good introduction to Ellery Queen. In this fifth novel the young Ellery Queen can still be insufferable on occasion, although the presence of his college professor, Dr. Yardley, checks his impulse to exhibit his erudition. Ellery remains baffled by the bizarre murders as does the reader. A final clue hidden among detail suddenly provides Ellery, and the particularly observant reader (not me, however), the key to the mystery. Stay alert for the final clue, despite deliberate distractions and misdirection.<br />Ellery Queen's investigations take him on long, tiring road trips in his beloved Duesenberg. Each destination is a gruesome murder site. A decapitated victim is found lashed to a post. A capital letter T is scrawled in blood nearby. Using more guesswork than logic, Ellery senses some obscure connection to ancient Egyptian myth.<br />I always enjoy the early Ellery Queen stories, those mysteries dating from 1929 through 1939. My other early favorites, for comparison purposes, include The Greek Coffin Mystery, The Siamese Twin Mystery, The Spanish Cape Mystery, and two Drury Lane mysteries, The Tragedy of X and The Tragedy of Y.	2003-08-13
US	49618395	R21PONPZD6469I	0806110597	879795115	Commerce of the Prairies (American Exploration and Travel Series)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Fascinating Primary Source to Santa Fe Trail - Great History	The full title of this book suggests that it is much more than a dry account of business practices: The Commerce of the Prairies, or the Journal of a Santa Fe Trader, During Eight Expedition Across The Great Western Prairies, and A Residence of Nearly Nine Years in Northern Mexico.  Illustrated with maps and engravings.  By Josiah Gregg.<br />The period was 1831 - 1840. On paper Northern Mexico was an immense holding that loosely included what is today Texas and New Mexico and stretched southward more than 500 miles through the Chihuahuan Desert to the Mexican trading centers of Durango and Chihuahua. Fierce, nomadic Indians prevented the Spanish and Mexicans from settling this vast domain. A large, loosely defined central section of the continent was known simply as Indian territory. American trading caravans departing from Franklin, Missouri did not encounter any settlements, not even ranches, until within 100 miles of Santa Fe. The long route southward from Santa Fe to Durango and Chihuahua was nearly as hazardous.<br />Josiah Gregg's narratives make marvelous reading. His style is engaging and his descriptions are accurate.  We readers share his love and fascination of this marvelously wild and dangerous territory. I have read very few modern travel narratives as intriguing and well-written as Gregg's writings.<br />Despite their constant threat, Gregg is sympathetic to the plains Indians and documents how the behavior of unscrupulous and foolish traders have exacerbated relations with the Indians. He cites unnecessary killings of buffalo by travelers who are overwhelmed by the shear size of the herds;  he even admits to doing so himself on occasion.<br />He is a man of commerce and tells us much about trade with Mexico. Rampant corruption among the tax collectors, custom officials, and governmental officials is an unavoidable business cost.  For remote Santa Fe, Durango, and Chihuahua, American trade is much desired, but Mexicans view the American traders withsuspicion. The first American traders (the Pike expedition) were immediately imprisoned for nine years.<br />I highly recommend this remarkable, fascinating account of travel along the Santa Fe Trail in the 1830s. I cannot imagine a more intriguing, more engaging narrative than that created by Josiah Gregg.<br />This edition of The Commerce of the Prairies was first published in 1926. The editing by Milo Milton Quaife is excellent. The footnotes are interesting and add considerable value. Josiah Gregg's original publication was in two volumes and included extensive, detailed, and accurate observations on flora, fauna, and the native Indians and is often cited by historians. This shortened version by Lakeside Press (now published by University of Nebraska Press) is an ideal introduction to the Santa Fe Trail.	2003-08-09
US	49618395	RPXID48LBDXVB	0195105192	858754978	What Is Mathematics? An Elementary Approach to Ideas and Methods	Books	5	226	233	N	N	Excellent Book.  Belongs on Your Bookshelf.	Courant's 500-page text is not entirely suitable for the layman. Its target audience includes those who enjoy reading and studying mathematics and have a good background through precalculus or higher. \\"What is Mathematics?\\" is a mathematics book, not a book about mathematics.    \\"What is Mathematics?\\" is not a new book. It was first published by Oxford University Press in 1941 with later editions in 1943, 1945, and 1947. Good quality soft cover copies are still in print as Oxford Paperbacks.    The authors indicate that it is no means necessary to \\"plow through it page by page, chapter by chapter\\". I fully agree. I have skipped around, jumping to chapters of particular interest, but I have now read nearly every chapter.     I initially skipped to page 165 and delved directly into projective geometry (chapter IV), proceeded to topology (chapter V), and then jumped backwards to the beginning to explore the theory of numbers. After moving to geometry, I finally returned to the later chapters on functions and limits, maxima and minima, and the calculus.    Courant engages the reader in discussions on mathematical concepts rather than focusing on applications and problem solving. \\"What is Mathematics?\\" is a great textbook for students that have completed a year or more of calculus and wish to pull all of their mathematical learning together before moving on to more advanced studies. I suspect that it would even be welcomed by students that have completed an undergraduate degree in mathematics.    I cannot resist quoting Albert Einstein's comment on What is Mathematics? - \\"A lucid representation of the fundamental concepts and methods of the whole field of mathematics...Easily understandable.\\"    Richard Courant was a highly respected mathematician. He taught in Germany and in Cambridge and was director of the Institute of Mathematical Sciences at New York University (now renamed the Courant Institute of Mathematical Sciences). Courant has authored other widely acclaimedmathematical texts including Methods of Mathematical Physics (co-authored with David Hilbert) and his popular Differential and Integral Calculus.	2003-08-03
US	49618395	R3P1EWUKAXPU2V	0898864801	181206434	Climbers Guide to the Teton Range	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Exceptional Climbing Guide to the Magnificent Teton Range	A good climbing guide is a personal friend. You spend hours reading about possible climbs, adventures awaiting for you. There is much pleasure in browsing a climbing guide, remembering the climbs you have made, those climbs not completed due to severe weather or other reasons, and all those climbs you have yet to try.     My Teton guidebook has particular value as I always inscribe notes about my climbs: the date, my companions, the weather, route finding tips (or conversely, where I went astray), elapsed time, and other items of interest.    This third edition, 1996, is more than four hundred pages. It is much to bulky and heavy to carry on a climb. But it is a remarkable reference of virtually every climbing route in the Teton Range. The descriptions are detailed and well-written. I have not encountered any climbing guide that is comparable in detail and scope to this work by Leigh Ortenburger and Reynold Jackson.     The number of routes and variations on the favorite peaks can be overwhelming. The most commonly used route is highlighted. Route descriptions range from easy scrambles to difficult climbs requiring substantial technical skill on ice, snow, and rock. Numerous excellent black and white photos with climbing routes overlain are scattered throughout the texts. Also, there are many detailed ink drawings of more difficult climbs.    For climbers new to the Tetons, the authors have listed more than 130 of their favorite routes ranging from easy scrambles to severe climbs 5.12 in difficulty, as well as difficult technical ice climbing routes.    The introduction, some sixty pages, is quite good. Major topics include a history of Teton climbing, descriptions of great climbs and traverses, details on the national park service policy, and a discussion of the difficulty rating system. The  section on Teton weather and climatology is both helpful and sobering. Also, on more than one occasion I had reason to appreciate Ortenburger's and Jackson's bushwacking hintsfor those canyons without maintained trails.    I have used A Climber's Guide to the Teton Range for many years beginning with the first edition dating back to the 1960s by Leigh Ortenburger. In the intervening years a condensed version, an extended version (volume 2), and a second and third edition have been published.     This third edition is really quite exceptional and I highly recommend this guidebook to anyone planning to climb in Grand Teton National Park.	2003-08-02
US	49618395	R3NQ5OLDNIOOZ6	0931895359	294749012	Teton Trails : A Guide to the Trails of Grand Teton National Park	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Good Guidebook for Days Hikes and Longer Treks	Looking for a morning hike, a day hike, or a longer trek involving back country Teton camping? This is the book to buy.<br />The trail descriptions and maps are detailed and accurate. Both authors are intimately familiar with the Tetons and have had help from NPS staff.  The labeled line drawings of various Teton scenery, penned by various National Park rangers, identify specific peaks, ridges, and passes from different vantage points.<br />Teton Trails is readily available at many shops in the Tetons area, but I recommend buying a copy now and enjoying some vicarious hiking. Planning vacation hikes can be almost as much fun as the hikes themselves. It is wise to have backup hiking routes, as snow can shut-in some higher passes well into midsummer in years of heavy winter snowfall. Talk to the rangers when you first arrive at the Grand Tetons about your hiking plans.<br />Duffy and Wile include a overview of the Grand Teton National Park, the hiking and camping guidelines, the geology, the varied habitats, and some discussion about bears.  A final section, titled Flora and Fauna, provides checklists of key trees, shrubs, flowers, mammals, and birds.<br />The authors recommend purchasing topographic maps covering your selected trails.  It is a good idea and map reading and orienteering always add an enjoyable dimension to mountain hiking. It's amazing how difficult it can be to cross a few closely spaced contour lines.<br />For those that have a long familiarity with the Tetons, this new publication replaces the earlier guidebook of the same title by Bryan Harry that was widely used in the 1960s  thru the 1980s. For anyone interested in off trail hiking (especially the northern canyons in the park) or Teton mountaineering, I highly recommend A Climber's Guide to the Teton Range , third edition, by Leigh Ortenburger and Reynold Jackson.	2003-07-30
US	49618395	R23OD78N8W3D7B	9997528549	99798242	Chinese Orange Mystery	Books	3	10	13	N	N	Fascinating Mystery, But Difficult Solution	In a private waiting room in the prestigious Hotel Chancellor in New York City we encounter a dead man, a victim of a bizarre murder. The man's identity is unknown, even the labels from his clothing has been removed. The victim was completely undressed and then re-dressed in his clothes, but backwards. The furniture, paintings, lamps, and other items in the room has been inverted or reversed. The peeling and seeds of a tangerine (then known as a Chinese Orange) are found in a fruit bowl.    The full title of this Ellery Queen Mystery (April, 1934) is The Chinese Orange Mystery, A Problem in Deduction. I made little progress in solving this mystery. I repeat a hint offered by an earlier reviewer that might benefit the modern reader: a century ago men often used removable stiff collars that could be washed and starched separately, even discarded and replaced, allowing longer use of the dress shirt itself.    The Chinese Orange Mystery makes good reading, but like a good John Dickson Carr mystery of the same period, the solution may be beyond most mortals. But with the hint above, you might unravel a few more threads than I did. Due to the difficulty level, I recommend that the a reader new to Ellery Queen not begin with this particular mystery, but defer it until you are more familiar with his deductive skills.    In recent months I have read and reviewed several Ellery Queen classic mysteries from the 1930s. Ellery Queen today is unfamiliar to many contemporary readers, but I expect that these remarkable deductive mysteries will again become as popular as they were in the 1930s through the 1960s. It may not be easy to locate one of the earlier (1930s) Ellery Queen mysteries, but I assure you that the effort will be rewarded.	2003-07-28
US	49618395	R1C9KSDUXMKIL1	0803297025	641068241	The Great Plains	Books	5	24	26	N	N	Insightful Historical Analysis - A Great Book	We traveled across Wyoming, down the Colorado-Nebraska border, crossed the narrow panhandle of Oklahoma, and continued southward through the high plains to Amarillo and Lubbock. It was long day. Temperatures reached 106 degrees. Our return from Wyoming to east Texas is never easy.    The great plains are awesome, stretching forever in all directions. Barb wire fences, lonely windmills, widely scattered cattle, and some isolated ranch and farm houses are among the few landmarks. How did the early pioneers react to this vast barrier extending from Mexico to Canada?     Walter Prescott Webb's acclaimed history, The Great Plains, is a fascinating examination of how our extensive plains shaped American history. For more than two hundred years settlers had pushed westward, largely along navigable rivers, and tamed a wilderness with the axe, the plow, and the rifle. But in the mid-1800s this westward movement encountered a new world, a vast expanse lacking forest, navigable rivers, and adequate rainfall. The lessons of the past few centuries proved irrelevant in this new, formidable wilderness.    Webb argues that the Spanish (and later the Mexicans) failure to colonize the area that is now western United States was due to their inability to defeat the plains Indians, especially the Apaches and Comanches in Texas. Travel from San Antonio to Santa Fe was not easy; the route was southward deep into Mexico to Durango and then back west and northward to Santa Fe. The direct route westward across the plains was Indian country.     As the American settlers ventured onto the plains after the Civil War, they were aided by an explosion of innovations, especially the Samuel Colt revolver (tipped the balance away from the Indians), the barb wire fence (made fencing possible), and the self-operating windmill (made water available). And the railroads made freight and livestock transportation possible between the sparsely populated great plains and the populated, industrialized easternstates.    Webb describes in exciting detail the short, remarkable period of the cowboys, the cattle drives, and the cattle barons.  Indelibly engraved on the American psyche, this period was already history by 1930 as Webb offered his insightful thoughts on the settlement of our mid-continent.    I can think of only one other history of the American West that compares with this remarkable work, and that is that great book by Ray Allen Billington, Westward Expansion.  Before your next travel across our endless plains, I encourage you to read Walter Prescott Webb's fascinating history of The Great Plains.	2003-07-27
US	49618395	R1C083ENXIH86M	0918024153	262657093	Philosophical Problems of Quantum Physics	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Heisenberg - Physics and Philosophy Lectures 1932-48	Werner Heisenberg was respected for his intriguing lectures on the philosophical implications of the new physics, what is now known as quantum physics. He avidly shared his fascination with man's changing concept of reality, and the contribution of quantum physics to a more fundamental understanding of reality.<br />And yet, he took pains to explain that quantum physics was only one explanation of reality. He concludes one lecture with a remarkable statement: Revere those things beyond science which really matter and about which it is so difficult to speak.<br />Heisenberg's lectures span the period in German history, 1932 - 1948, that witnessed the growth of Nazism, the dictatorship of Adolph Hitler, the devastating war in Europe, the systematic genocide of the European Jews, the total military defeat of Germany, and the division of Germany. Nonetheless, these philosophical investigations make no references to the staggering political and military events in Europe. They seem to have been presented in a vacuum. <br />The final lecture, a commencement speech at Gottingen University in July, 1946, was an exception. Heisenberg now questions the proper role of scientists in the modern world, their conflicting role as a contributing member of the international community of scientists versus their role in the service of their own country. He talks of the \\"frightening aspect of our present-day existence\\", not just the atomic bomb, but the potential for \\"chemical means of destroying life\\", the \\"practical possibility to produce infectious diseases artificially\\", and \\"perhaps worse, even the biological development of man may be influenced in the direction of some predetermined selective breeding\\".<br />Heisenberg likes to begin his discussions of quantum theory by tracing man's efforts to define reality, beginning with classical Greek philosophy. He argues that reality as defined by quantum theory today is actually closer to early Greek concepts than was the deterministic, objective reality that was the foundation of Newtonian physics. <br />Despite the passage of several decades and major advances in physics, these lectures are still thought provoking and stimulating. Heisenberg himself will long be remembered for his contributions to quantum physics. I suspect that his lectures on the philosophical problems underlying modern physics will not be forgotten either.	2003-07-17
US	49618395	R3KJ0VW8H0XPTM	0140424040	434801778	Selected Poems of Abraham Cowley, Edmund Waller, and John Oldham (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Fascinating Anthology - Excellent Explanatory Notes	I had read little Cowley and Waller (but not Oldham at all) until I encountered this Penguin collection titled Selected Poems of Abraham Cowley, Edmund Waller, and John Oldham. The introduction and extensive notes by Julia Griffin were especially helpful.     Without her explanatory notes, I doubt that I would have fully appreciated the significance of these lesser known poets. Griffin paints a disturbing portrait of seventeenth century England, a country in turmoil and civil war, and then clearly illustrates how the poetry of Cowley, Waller, and Oldham was shaped by (and reflected) this complex period.     In looking about for traces of Cowley in anthologies and biographies of poets that I had previously read, I stumbled upon Michael Schmidt's criticism in his massive \\"Lives of the Poets\\". Apparently Cowley had the temerity to describe Chaucer as \\"a dry, old-fashioned wit, not worth reviving\\". Schmidt pointedly asks, \\"What is our opinion of Cowley?\\"    Cowley was obviously wrong about Chaucer and I believe that Schmidt was wrong about Abraham Cowley. Cowley is not a Shakespeare, nor a Milton, nor a Marvell. But Cowley warrants familiarity. His poetry makes good reading, its quality is even, and some lines are memorable. My favorites include Against Fruition, On the Death of Sir Anthony Van Dyck, Drinking and the Grasshopper (both playful translations of Greek poetry), the respectful poem To Mr. Hobbes (the English philosopher), Lot's Wife, the humorous The Country Mouse, and the more serious The Country Life.     The lives of Edmund Waller and Abraham Cowley overlapped, both became embroiled in civil war politics and were exiled to France, were aware of each other's poetry, but apparently were only acquaintances. On occasion Abraham Cowley and Edmund Waller wrote poetry on identical topics - the death of Anthony Van Dyck, poems debating pros and cons of sexual fruition in courtship, tribute to the repairing of Somerset house, and poetry on the pleasure of drinking- thus making direct comparisons easier. I usually preferred Cowley, but I liked both, and enjoyed the opportunity to compare decidedly different approaches.     The third poet, John Oldham, lived in poverty and was unable to find reliable patronage. Griffin argues that Oldham's anger fostered some of his best poetry. I found his unrelenting criticism to be somewhat vindictive, harsh, distasteful, and eventually tiring. I never quite finished reading the section on Oldham.     Many anthologies offer useful footnotes, or other explanatory notes, but few are as complete and interesting as those compiled by Julia Griffin. I developed a habit of first reading Griffin's notes, ranging from a short paragraph to a full page, before engaging a poem by Cowley, Waller, or Oldham. Her notes helped me appreciate the historical context as well as clarifying poetic imagery, classical references, archaic terms, and topical references.    Update August, 2007:  I recently encountered several quotes from Edmund Waller's poetry in The Man of Mode, a Restoration comedy of manners by George Etherege. The main character, the witty, rakish Dorimant, was forever quoting Waller, a trait that was apparently shared by the boisterous Earl of Rochester, one of Etherege's close companions.	2003-07-16
US	49618395	R1JHXWIUVG9AC2	1883402115	99798242	The Siamese Twin Mystery (Otto Penzler's Classic American Mystery Library)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Classic Ellery Queen - Among His Best Stories	We join Ellery and his father, Inspector Richard Queen, in an unfamiliar habitat, a remote rugged road in a forested mountainous area in upstate New York. Tired, somewhat uncertain of their directions, with night falling, the situation suddenly worsens as they find themselves cutoff by a forest fire.  Following a barely visible rutted road upward, they find temporary safety at a sprawling lodge nestled on the top of Arrow mountain. As the fire below slowly encircles them, the Queens find themselves involved in a bizarre murder mystery.<br />Certainly, the situation is contrived. Dr. Xavier's work on Siamese twins in an isolated mountain lodge is a bit fantastic. The clues are supremely subtle. And yet this mystery is highly effective. Under the stress of the approaching fire, Ellery too hurriedly offers solutions, seemingly masterful examples of pure logic, but flawed nonetheless. (The reader may be reminded of another remarkable Ellery Queen story, The Greek Coffin Mystery.)<br />Ellery and Inspector Queen refuse to let the relentless forest fire dissuade them from continuing their investigation. The drama and suspense shifts back and forth between the danger posed by the ever advancing fire and the more immediate threat, the likelihood that the unknown killer will murder again.  <br />The Siamese Twin Mystery (October, 1933) is a good example of the deductive mystery genre that was especially popular in 1920s, 1930s, and 1940s. To assist the reader in unraveling the mystery, it comes complete with a playful description of the cast of characters and a floor plan of the ground level of Dr. Xavier's lodge. Surprisingly, it is missing Ellery's trademark, a pause generally found at the beginning of the last chapter, in which the author challenges the reader to solve the mystery before reading further, as all clues have now been revealed.<br />The Siamese Twin Mystery makes a good introduction to Ellery Queen. It has all of the elements that characterize a classic Ellery Queen mystery.  It is among the best of Ellery Queen stories, comparing favorably with The Greek Coffin Mystery, The Spanish Cape Mystery, and The Tragedy of X.	2003-06-22
US	49618395	R2QKZ5HGZ52FAV	019855575X	890877420	The Meaning of Quantum Theory: A Guide for Students of Chemistry and Physics (Oxford Science Publications)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Insight into Quantum Theory - Great for Physics Students	I have a fascination for books on the meaning of quantum theory. Many target the layman and dispense with mathematics. Others assume the reader is adept at applying both wave mechanics and matrix mechanics to quantum problems. Published by Oxford University Press, \\"The Meaning of Quantum Theory\\", strikes a good balance that is ideal for undergraduate students of physics and chemistry, and is especially useful as a companion for a formal text on quantum theory. <br />The author, Jim Baggott, combines his experience as a freelance science writer with his skill as a respected lecturer in physical chemistry. In 1989 he was awarded the Marlow Medal from the Faraday Division of the Royal Society of Chemistry for his research contributions in chemical kinetics and spectroscopy. Baggott is an exceptional writer and I enjoy reading sections at random. I have twice read his book and probably will do so again.<br />About quantum theory Baggott says, \\"For the first time, students are taught about a theory which they have to accept and which they have to learn how to apply, but which they cannot be expected to be told its meaning.\\" Baggott argues that beneath the mathematical formalism of quantum mechanics, there exists an interpretation, and a philosophy, that warrants investigation.<br />The first chapter (40 pages) offers a historical overview of the early development of quantum theory that is probably familiar to many readers. <br />Chapter 2 (35 pages), titled \\"Putting it into Practice\\", differentiates Baggott's work from many others. We learn about operator algebra, and then we encounter experimental evidence that we must either use non-commuting matrices, or non-commuting operators, to describe position-momentum relationships in quantum physics. <br />Baggott then carefully introduces the underlying postulates of quantum physics (and the mathematical formulation) as described by John von Neumann. We learn about complementary observables, the Dirac bracket notation, statevectors and eigenfunctions, and the usefulness of projection amplitudes. A substantial section is devoted to the Pauli exclusion principal, the polarization properties of photons, measurement operators, and the collapse of the wave function, all topics that are discussed later in the context of experimental results.<br />After 75 pages of preparation, Baggott asks \\"What Does it Mean\\"?, the title of chapter 3. Chapter 4 is \\"Putting it to the Test\\", and Chapter 5 is \\"What are the Alternatives?\\". A reader that skimmed the mathematical discourse in chapter 2 would still find the last three chapters intriguing, although some sections might be heavy going.<br />\\"The Ghost in the Atom: A Discussion of the Mysteries of Quantum Physics\\"  by Davies and Brown is non-mathematical, but offers, nevertheless, an insightful look at alternative interpretations of quantum theory - standard interpretation (Copenhagen interpretation), conscious observer, parallel universes, hidden variables, and a statistical view - that dovetails rather well with Baggott's more detailed and more in-depth analysis. As a precursor to Baggott's book, I also highly recommend Richard Feynman's brilliant lectures published under the title \\"QED\\".	2003-06-09
US	49618395	R2HOK5GN0AHSIW	0880014636	589124694	The Face of Spain (Ecco Travels Series)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Exceptional Travel Literature - Historical Portrait of Spain	Spain, 1949. War in Europe is over. The brutal, confusing, almost incomprehensible Spanish Civil War is history, but not distant history. Franco's Falangist Party still rules Spain.<BR> <BR>Gerald Brenan knew Spain well. He lived in the Andalusia region in his youth. Years later he and his wife returned and bought a home in Southern Spain. But in 1936 they fled as Civil War erupted.<BR> <BR>In the spring of 1949 they returned as visitors. The Face of Spain is an extraordinary account of their travels through central and southern Spain. Gerald Brenan's fascinating examination of a country and people that he admired and loved should be read by all students of European history, and by all who love to travel.<br />I was saddened by much of Brenan's account. But I was also enthralled by his observations, by his sense of history, and by his sensitivity to the Spanish character. I felt a sense of loss when I read the final chapter and realized my journey had ended.<BR> <BR>The journey begins in Madrid and then wanders leisurely through Cordova, the hill towns of Andalusia, Malaga, Churriana, Granada, La Mancha, Badajoz, Merida, Talavera, Toledo, Aranjuez, and ends once again in Madrid.<BR> <BR>Brenan gives the reader a sympathetic, but objective look at Spain. We become a part of Spain's colorful sunsets, its baked landscape (Spain was witnessing an extreme drought), and its complex heritage shaped by Romans, Visigoths, and Arabs. I was especially intrigued by Brenan's personal encounters with the indomitable Spanish people, and their individual stories of life in postwar Spain.<BR> <BR>The Face of Spain is sometimes somber, sometimes sympathetic, sometimes critical, and sometimes exuberant. I will undoubtedly return to Brenan's Spain again. It is exceptional travel literature and fascinating history.	2003-06-08
US	49618395	R36VVLA4U0R2BD	0299141845	535860549	Peru's Indian Peoples and the Challenge of Spanish Conquest: Huamanga to 1640	Books	4	24	25	N	N	Andean Indians - Cultural Adaptation to Spanish Colonialism	I was captivated by Mario Vargas Llosa's disturbing novel, Death in the Andes. It is structurally a mystery story, but it can be best characterized as a compelling portrait of political violence in contemporary Peru. Mario Vargas Llosa is a captivating story teller and I found myself wanting to know more about the people that inhabit the harsh mountains of Peru.    \\"Peru's Indian Peoples and the Challenge of Spanish Conquest - Huamanga to 1640\\" by Steve J. Stern exactly met my needs. This scholarly text tells the story of how conquest transformed a resilient and vigorous people into an inferior caste of Andean Indians. The geographical focus is a mountainous region in southwest Peru dominated by the city Huamanga (today known as Ayacucho, a city not too distant from the fictional town of Naccos, the setting for Death in the Andes).    The lengthy title, \\"Peru's Indian Peoples and the Challenge of Spanish Conquest - Huamanga to 1640\\", may be a little intimidating, but the book is well-written and is largely accessible without undue effort. The first chapter paints an intriguing view of a pre-Columbian society based on complex reciprocity relationships between members of extended families or kinships called ayllus. These arrangements allowed dispersed groups to exploit isolated, island-like, ecological niches like cold high mountain pastures or low dry valleys while depending upon others for products grown or created elsewhere.    The ethnic groups native to Huamanga welcomed the overthrow of the Incas and allied themselves quickly with the victorious Spaniards. \\"Local communities sacked warehouses once dedicated to the discredited Incas.\\" Chapter 2 examines the rise and subsequent demise of these post-Incaic alliances with the Spanish.     Chapter 3, \\"A Historical Watershed\\", describes the revival of Andean religious fervor (the Taki Onqoy) and an unsuccessful effort to expel the Spanish colonizers. Remarkably, the Spanish, under the formidable  leadership of Don Francisco de Toledo, within a decade had dramatically revised their colonial structure, and largely eliminated any possibility of future revolt by the Andean Indians.    Chapter 4 details the political economy of colonialism in the Huamanga region while chapter 5 investigates the contentious legal battles between the Indians and the colonizing elite under the Spanish judicial system. Both chapters are intriguing, but are more difficult for the non-specialist. I was surprised by how carefully the Spanish structured the taxation system; it siphoned away the maximum wealth without completely devastating the Andean economy. The Indians resisted this economic oppression through evasion as well as by tenaciously exploiting the Spanish legal system to protect their rights.    The final three chapters explore the ways in which the Andean Indians gradually adapted to Spanish colonization and how this adaptation fostered a political economy of dependence. Stern devotes chapter 7 to the \\"tragedy of success\\", the story of the successful few that escaped the burdens of the peasantry by becoming integrated into the ruling Spanish colonial structure. The final chapter, Huamanga's colonial heritage, admits that much has changed in modern times, but argues that \\"the present seems to superimpose itself upon the past, not destroy it.\\"	2003-05-25
US	49618395	R3AL51SDS7DP9M	0140262156	185306815	Death in the Andes	Books	4	29	32	N	N	Structurally a Mystery Story - Captivating and Memorable	Death in the Andes is a story of brutality and fear and ignorance. The language is often coarse and vulgar. The ending is especially disturbing. Were it not for the remarkable writing of Mario Vargas Llosa, I might have put this unsettling story aside. But Mario Vargas Llosa is a captivating story teller and I found myself wanting to know more and more about his characters that inhabit the harsh mountains of Peru. <br />The reader encounters alternating viewpoints and layered conversations that intermingle the present and the past, forcing the reader to remain alert. Death in the Andes is structurally a mystery story in which two soldiers assigned to a barren outpost investigate the disappearance of three men. The brutal Shining Path terrorists (the Senderistas) are the natural suspect, but Corporal Lituma also mistrusts both the townspeople (largely traditional Indians) and the construction work crew building a highway across the mountains. Initially, he has little patience for talk of the pishtacos, vampire-like humans that sucked the blood and ate the melted the fat of their victims.<br />There are stories within stories. Young French tourists are stoned to death, rather than shot, to save bullets, and to permit others to take part in the killing. In fascination we listen to a lonely young man describe his improbable love of a prostitute. We witness a village turning upon itself and selecting victims for the Senderistas. We meet an aged, repulsive woman who in her youth helped kill a pishtacos. We gain a nebulous understanding as to why Peruvians and foreigners involved in re-forestation programs and nature preserves become prime targets for assassination.<BR> <BR>I have already begun to read Death in the Andes again and I am searching for more writings by Mario Vargas Llosa. Although I found his portrait of contemporary Peru to be unsettling, disturbing, and haunting, Death in the Andes will appeal to the reader on many levels. It is a memorable lesson in history, in cultural conflict, and in man's inhumanity.	2003-05-24
US	49618395	R2C2PMCZNP32R3	0486247201	65754344	Bodies in a Bookshop	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Amusing and Entertaining Characters. Enjoyable mystery story	I can be frequently found in bookstores, but I have never encountered a dead body. Botanist Max Boyle finds not one, but two bodies in a small, musty bookstore on a small side street off Totenham Court Road.<br />Max Boyle is soon joined by two polar opposites: the irascible Professor John Stubbs, a Scottish botanist with a penchant for solving murders, and their old acquaintance, the reserved (and often underestimated) Chief Inspector Reginald F. Bishop of Scotland Yard. Professor Stubbs reminded me of Colin Dexter's brilliant, and sometimes quarrelsome, Inspector Morse. Both Stubbs and Morse solve mysteries by jumping to conclusions, one after another, until reaching the final, correct solution. Those around them often have difficulty keeping up with their shifting focus. Neither Morse nor Stubbs could imagine a day without one or more visits to nearby pubs; draft beer is essential for good deductive efforts.<br />&quot;Bodies in a Bookshop&quot;, written in 1946, is entertaining and amusing. Boyle says early on: The trouble with bookstores is that they are as bad as pubs. You start with one and you drift to another, and before you know where you are you are on a gigantic book-binge.<br />Ellery Queen offers better constructed deductive mysteries. P.D. James and Colin Dexter are more literate. Robert Van Gulik's Judge Dee's mysteries are more exotic and G. K. Chesterton's Father Brown mysteries are more moralistic. Nonetheless, &quot;Bodies in a Bookshop&quot; makes good reading and I am thankful that Dover has republished this nearly forgotten book. Apparently &quot;Bodies in a Bookshop&quot; is only one of several stories involving Boyle, Stubbs, and Bishop. I look forward to finding others works by R. T. Campbell.<br />R.T. Campbell was the pen name of Scottish poet, scholar, art critic and fantasy novelist Ruthven Campbell Todd (1914-1978).  His detective stories were written in a short period in the 1940s.	2003-05-18
US	49618395	R1EF0GPF9EUQW2	0930330587	516806427	The Tragedy of Z (Ipl Library of Crime Classics)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	Z is Disappointing. New Character Misses the Mark.	In the early 1930s Ellery Queen penned four mysteries under the name Barnaby Ross. The Tragedy of X (1932) and The Tragedy of Y (1932) were quite good, but The Tragedy of Z (1933) misfired. I have yet to read \\"Drury Lane's Last Case\\".<br />Although Z was actually written only one year after X and Y, ten fictional years have elapsed.  The eccentric, retired Shakespearean actor, Drury Lane, has aged considerably and is in ill health. District Attorney Bruno is now Governor of New York State. Inspector Thumm has retired from the New York City police department and is now managing a private detective agency.  His daughter Patience Thumm, not heretofore mentioned, is a young modern woman that not only plays a critical role in unraveling the mystery, but also \\"authors\\" or \\"narrates\\" The Tragedy of Z.<br />Patience Thumm is an unsatisfactory creation. Her characterization as a modern, independent, confident, well-educated, cosmopolitan, young woman failed. I found her to be tiresome and uninteresting. I found myself impatiently waiting for the arrival of Drury Lane.<br />The dazzling deductive fireworks so characteristic of most Ellery Queen novels seemed to fizzle and sputter a bit. I found myself unsatisfied with a convoluted medical analysis of the impact of injuries on right-handedness. Another clue that was slowly unveiled throughout the story proved to be a distraction, simply a way to introduce the letter Z, and was not significant after all. I may just be complaining as I made little progress in identifying the culprit.<br />The Tragedy of Z is not exceptional, but it is an Ellery Queen original and that alone ensures that it is worth reading. I always enjoy the early Ellery Queen mysteries not only for superb detective fiction, but also for their window on American culture in the 1930s. For example, this  novel details the procedure for carrying out a death sentence by electrocution in New York state in 1932. It was chilling.<br />I highly recommend the first twoDrury Lane mysteries, X and Y, and despite my disappointment with The Tragedy of Z, I am still looking forward to the fourth (and final) mystery, Drury Lane's Last Case.	2003-05-12
US	49618395	R18NKCVH4RPGFG	0884112969	864597691	The Levanter	Books	4	23	24	N	N	Good Suspense, Intriguing Characters, Good History	A Levanter is an inhabitant of the Levant, the countries of the eastern Mediterranean.    I am new to Eric Ambler. In recent months I have read and reviewed two stories from his early career, A Coffin for Dimitrios (1939) and Journey into Fear (1940), one from his mid-career (The Light of Day, 1962), and now his 1972 novel, The Levanter.     His early writing career was interrupted by WWII. Entering as a private in the Royal Artillery and serving in Italy, Ambler was later assigned to a combat photographic unit. Ambler ultimately earned the rank of lieutenant colonel and although British, he was even awarded an American Bronze Star.    His postwar career focused more on writing screenplays for Hollywood and television, but he did continue to write an occasional new espionage story. The Levanter (1972) was among his last books.    His early stories have exciting plots, but his early characters lack the fascinating complexity of his misguided and all-to-clever protagonist, Michael Howell, found in the Levanter. I quite enjoyed The Levanter and I believe that it compares favorably with the early John LeCarre novels.    In The Levanter Ambler tells a story through the eyes of three characters: Lewis Prescott (an experienced journalist interested in Michael Howell's situation) in chapters 1, 3, and 8, Michael Howell himself in chapters 2, 4, 6, and 7; and Teresa Malandra (Michael's secretary and lover) in chapter 5.    The setting is 1970 Syria, three years after the Six Days War. The Baathist Party, in power since 1963, has been steadily nationalizing all industry and Michael Howell considers his family's (third generation) commercial holdings at great risk. His plans to cleverly shelter his Syrian operations come apart when he involuntarily becomes an integral component in a plot to launch a substantial terrorist attack on Israel.    I was disconcerted by one aspect of Ambler's story. Despite the passage of three decades, The Levanter still reads like a contemporary novel. Today, for political and security reasons Israel still holds territory acquired during the Six Days War while the Syrian Baathist party continues to covertly (and not so covertly) support terrorist activities against Israel.	2003-05-11
US	49618395	RCCSNHO4YKXYH	0070542007	692735510	Istanbul Intrigues/a True-Life Casablanca	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Espionage in Istanbul in WWII - Bizarre and Byzantine	I quite enjoyed Ellery Queen's remarkable 1932 story, The Greek Coffin Mystery. Noticing a book with a similar title, I next read Eric Ambler's, A Coffin for Dimitrios, a classic spy novel involving intrigue in Istanbul shortly before the start of WWII. A few days later I stumbled across a 1952 movie (Five Fingers) about actual espionage in Istanbul in late 1943. Subsequently, I found a detailed account of this particular espionage case in Barry Rubin's Istanbul Intrigues, a fascinating account of \\"espionage, sabotage, and diplomatic treachery in Istanbul, the spy capital of WWII\\".<br />In retrospect, my rather circuitous route from an Ellery Queen mystery to a well-researched military history seems fitting, as Rubin's description of WWII Istanbul was absolutely Byzantine. Seventeen intelligence organizations competed for critical information. Double agents, triple agents, and even quadruple agents were the norm. The Turks were rightly concerned with a possible German attack (Romania, Hungary, Bulgaria, Yugoslavia, and Greece were already occupied), but they feared Russia even more. They considered the United States as foolishly nave in its belief that Stalin would not continue to occupy Eastern Europe and the Balkans after Germany's defeat. And they did not entirely trust the British either.<br />The Turkish intelligence organization, the Emniyet, was remarkably effective and somehow managed to keep track of the convoluted intelligence operations practiced by the Germans, the Russians, the British, the Americans, and the lesser powers. <br />I was sometimes overwhelmed by the detail in Rubin's account and I occasionally found myself skimming some sections. Nonetheless, I strongly recommend reading Istanbul Intrigues. Not only is this good history and good melodrama, it has immediate relevance to current events in Turkey, Iraq, and elsewhere in the Middle East and the Balkans.<br />We encounter a suicide attack on Franz von Papen, the opportunistic and devious German ambassador.  We meet Angelo Giuseppe Roncalli, the Vatican's legate and apostolic vicar to Istanbul's few Catholics. He was in disfavor with the church hierarchy for speeches critical of Benito Mussolini. Later Roncalli becomes the ecumenical Pope John XXIII. Contrastingly, we become acquainted with disreputable characters like Andre Gyorgy who combined lucrative smuggling with espionage services for the Hungarians, British, American OSS, Zionists, and unknown to these four groups, he also worked for the Germans.<br />If you read only one chapter, you might try The Valet Did It (chapter 15), the story behind the English film, Five Fingers. Released in 1952, the movie, a purported true account, was based on a 1950 book by Ludwig Moyzisch, the SD's Ankara chief. (The SD was the intelligence arm of the Reich Security Ministry, one of the three competing German intelligence operations in Turkey.) Barry Rubin's research illustrates that the full story was far more complex than Moyzisch himself realized, and has more twists than most contemporary spy novels.<br />Although well-researched and apparently quite accurate, footnotes are not available. However, Rubin did provide some appendices that can be quite helpful: Selective List of Code Names for OSS-Turkey, List of Intelligence Organizations operating in Turkey, List of Individuals Interviewed, an extensive Bibliography, and a good Index.<br />Istanbul Intrigues was originally published by McGraw-Hill in 1989, reprinted in 1992 by Pharos books, and recently (2002) has been republished by Bosphorus University Press. New and used copies are available via the Internet.<br />Barry Rubin is a recognized expert on Middle East affairs. He has published 16 books, edited another 17, and is the editor of the Middle East Review of International Affairs. His works include the widely acclaimed The Transformation of Palestinian Politics (Harvard, 1999) and The Israel-Arab Reader (Penguin/Putnam, 2002).  He has taught at Hebrew University, Tel Aviv University, Bar-Ilan University, Georgetown University, the Middle East Technical University in Ankara, Turkey, and the Johns Hopkins University School of Advanced International Studies. He is currently teaching at Hebrew University's Harry Truman Center. He contributes articles to the prestigious Foreign Affairs journal.	2003-05-06
US	49618395	R1IXC6F8VM9ZSZ	0891904646	732466259	The Light of Day	Books	5	45	47	N	N	The Light of Day - Possibly Best Novel by Eric Ambler	The Light of Day is an exceptionally good story that involves a rather unusual protagonist for a suspenseful thriller, a petty crook named Arthur Abdel Simpson. The setting is Athens and Instanbul in 1962. The book was a best seller, and it was adapted into a successful movie, a lighthearted caper titled Topkapi (1964). Peter Ustinov received an academy award for his portrayal of Arthur Simpson.<br />Arthur, as the protagonist in The Light of Day, is disagreeable, dishonest, and disreputable. He blames others for his failings, he cheats his clients, and he has served a short sentence for distributing pornographic material. Arthur is caught stealing and is blackmailed into driving a car from Athens to Istanbul. The bumbling Arthur is arrested for smuggling at the Turkish border and now finds himself working unwillingly for the Turkish secret police. Neither Arthur nor the reader quite understands the situation. Is he mixed up with a political plot, arms smuggling, drug trafficking, or something else? Despite my misgivings, I found myself becoming sympathetic to Arthur. Had he conned me too?<br />I highly recommend this suspenseful novel by Eric Ambler. I enjoyed (and reviewed) both Ambler's A Coffin for Dimitrios and Journey into Fear, but The Light of Day is even better. This book would be a good starting point for anyone new to Eric Ambler.	2003-04-26
US	49618395	R3A57I3DCKOD1R	0375726721	269589344	Journey Into Fear	Books	4	75	75	N	N	More Danger and Intrigue from Eric Ambler	In early September, 1939 Great Britain and France declared war on Germany when Hitler's forces invaded Poland. Little happened for months. The French remained behind the Maginot Line; the Germans were secure behind the newly completed Siegfried Line. <br />Eric Ambler wrote Journey into Fear during this period of relative calm. Ambler, as well as most Europeans, expected a replay of the trench warfare of WWI. Hitler's unexpected blitzkrieg across Belgium, Holland, and France was yet to come.<br />As with his previous story, A Coffin for Dimitrios (1939), the setting begins in Istanbul and we again briefly meet Colonel Haki, head of the Turkish secret police. Mr. Graham, a naval ordnance engineer for an English armament manufacturer, has been assisting Turkey with plans for modernizing their naval vessels. The project was tiring and Graham is anxious to return home. But German agents have other plans.<br />Journey into Fear would have worked effectively as a Hitchcock thriller involving a common man in an uncommon situation (and undoubtedly Ambler's stories influenced Hitchcock). Graham is unprepared to play the role of an assassin's target. He is just an engineer doing his job. His efforts to escape are often ineffective and even amateurish, but would we readers have done differently?  We share his frustration and fear at his inability to prevent the noose from tightening. <br />For those new to Eric Ambler, I would recommend beginning with A Coffin for Dimitrios (also titled The Mask of Dimitrios) and to be followed by Journey into Fear. Both are good stories. I would rate A Coffin for Dimitrios slightly higher.<br />Journey into Fear was made into movie in 1942, produced by Orson Welles' Mercury company, directed by Norman Foster, and starred Joseph Cotton and Dolores Del Rio.<br />Peter Lorre, Sidney Greenstreet, and Zachary Scott starred in The Mask of Dimitrios in 1944. It was directed by Jean Negulesco.	2003-04-25
US	49618395	R28FGOKMOMNQ7P	0375726713	976407740	A Coffin for Dimitrios	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Classic of Suspense and Intrigue. Influenced Later Writers	\\"Inevitably, chance does occasionally operate with a sort of fumbling coherence readily mistakable for the workings of a self-conscious Providence.\\" And so begins the story of Dimitrios Makropoulos.<br />Eric Ambler's fascinating novel, A Coffin for Dimitrios (also titled The Mask of Dimitrios), was published in 1939 as Europe edged toward war. Charles Latimer, a lecturer in political economy, had unexpectedly become a successful writer of mystery stories. By chance, an improbable fan, a Colonel Haki in Istanbul, offers Latimer the opportunity to see a corpse recovered from the Bosphorus the night before. Dimitrios was \\"scum\\" that had been associated with murder, political assassination, and heroin smuggling. The dossier on Dimitrios was fragmentary and dated back to 1922. His death was an untidy conclusion to an untidy life.<br />For reasons even unclear to himself, Latimer begins an almost obsessive search for the story of Dimitrios. We readers become ensnared in a shabby, greedy, politically dangerous Central Europe that foreshadows not only WWII, but also the chaos in the Balkans of the 1990s. We meet unsavory characters in Istanbul, Smyrna, Sofia, Geneva, and Paris; the research into the life of Dimitrios is no longer academic.<br />The historical setting feels authentic. I could not avoid being aware that this fictional story would be soon followed by a horrendous event. Eric Ambler, like many Europeans in 1939, expected war, but not a war of the magnitude that was to occur. One of his characters says: My latest information is that war will not break out until the spring; so there will be time for some skiing.<br />Eric Ambler is recognized as a major influence on Graham Greene, Len Deighton, and John LeCarre and other practitioners of sophisticated political thrillers. Ian Fleming is even said to have had James Bond observe that Ambler was a favorite author. If some aspects of Ambler's story seem familiar, remember that it is others that copied him. <br />Movie buffs might be aware that in 1944 Peter Lorre played the role of Latimer (renamed Layman, for some obscure reason) in a popular film version titled The Mask of Dimitrios. It was directed by Jean Negulesco.	2003-04-22
US	49618395	R2KZVS7A83R3DV	0451121368	775702751	The Greek Coffin Mystery	Books	5	15	19	N	N	A Gem - Superbly Crafted - An Ellery Queen Classic	The Ellery Queen stories will remain among the most remarkable American classic mysteries ever written. And this superbly constructed story, The Greek Coffin Mystery, is among the best of Ellery Queen.<br />Ellery Queen first appeared in June, 1929 in The Roman Hat Mystery, followed by The French Powder Mystery (1931), and The Dutch Shoe Mystery (1932). The plot in the fourth story, The Greek Coffin Mystery (1932), actually pre-dates The Roman Hat Mystery and reveals a younger, less-experienced Ellery Queen. We readers see an overly confident Ellery Queen stumble in his deductions and are led through not one, but a several flawed solutions. <br />Not only is this \\"younger and cockier\\" Ellery Queen misled and chastised, but it will be a rare reader indeed that does not likewise become ensnared in faulty deductions and erroneous conclusions. Ellery Queen regains any lost prestige in his final, remarkable deductions that lead unerringly to the actual solution. <br />The New York City setting is an old, drooping brownstone at 11 East Fifty-Fourth Street. Adjacent to the Georg Khalkis residence is one of the oldest private cemeteries in the city. Georg Khalkis had died, apparently of heart failure. His burial is in an old brick-lined subterranean crypt.<br />I am hesitant to say anything more about the plot itself for fear that I might unwittingly say too much. Just be prepared to be surprised.<br />The reader acquainted with Ellery may notice that his penchant for quoting literature (and thereby exercising his ivy league education) is more marked in The Greek Coffin Mystery than in his later stories. We encounter literary and philosophical observations in English, French, German and Latin. Ellery is even able to roughly translate a note in modern Greek from his knowledge of the classical Greek language. Who but Ellery Queen would quote Byron, Goethe, Terence, La Fontaine, Chaucer, Rousseau, and Schopenhauer while solving a muder?<br />Like Nero Wolfe, another famous master of deduction, Ellery also enjoys an occasional vocabulary excess, treating the reader to expressions like  `eremitic in its furnishings', `caparisoning his cousin',  `greatest animus', and `the charming amanuensis'.<br />The Greek Coffin Mystery is classic Ellery Queen. The plot is intriguing, the characters are memorable, and Ellery Queen's exercise in deduction is simply dazzling. The Greek Coffin Mystery is no longer in print, but used copies, especially in paperback, are still available. Make the effort to find a copy. This is definitely a five star Ellery Queen masterpiece.	2003-04-21
US	49618395	R10ICBM6SPSYNJ	0674004256	646202449	Adaptation and Natural Selection in Caves: The Evolution of Gammarus minus	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Evolutionary Biology - A Subterranean Study	The evolution of Gammarus minus is the subject of a remarkably interesting text published by Harvard University Press. Gammarus who? Gammarus what? Gammarus minus is a little freshwater crustacean, an isopod, that inhabits surface streams, springs, and caves.     We all have some knowledge of the theory of natural selection and evolution, and yet, I suspect that few fully recognize the complexity and difficulty in conducting research in evolutionary biology. Just how does one go about proving or disproving some aspect of evolutionary theory?     David Culver, Thomas Kane, and Daniel Fong argue that caves and cave animals are valuable empirical models for the study of evolution, particularly for the study of adaptation. The unusual morphology of cave fauna makes them \\"quintessential examples of evolutionary tradeoffs, a recurring theme in the study of adaptation\\". Also, as the cave environment is more uniform and less complex than most habitats, the analysis of environmental effects on selection is accordingly less difficult. And convergent evolution in many isolated cave systems offers a degree of repeatability that is often absent in evolutionary studies.    This text, Adaptation and Natural Selection in Caves, is remarkably well-organized and clearly written, and is accessible to the layman interested in cave biology and ecology.    However, I caution the reader. This is not a popular book on evolution for the layman. This is a detailed, well-documented, thoughtful, multidisciplinary scientific study whose primary audience is active researchers and graduate students in the biological sciences.     Evolutionary biology requires a wide background. The reader will encounter biospeleology, ecology, electrophoresis, genetics, isopod morphology, karst geology, stream hydraulics, and systematics. As advanced statistical techniques are commonly used in genetic and evolutionary studies, the reader will meet the F statistic, dendrograms, k-means clustering, rank-3 biplots,correlation matrices, and short discussions on determining the optimal splines for curve fitting.    The glossary was quite helpful with terms like adaptive radiation, allozyme, apomorphic, exaptation, electrophoresis, gene flow, homoplasy, neoteny, and vicariance.     While this text may require some persistence, it is well-worth the effort. I commend Culver, Kane, and Fong for providing an intriguing look at a complex, interdisciplinary research topic.    I recommend first reading, chapter by chapter, the concise introductions and the concluding summaries. Then return to the beginning of the book to study the chapters in more detail. The summaries are clearly written and allow the reader to quickly and easily develop an overview of each chapter.    As a final comment, Adaptation and Natural Selection in Caves would be an excellent choice for a reading assignment for undergraduates in biology, ecology, genetics, morphology, and limnology. Culver, Kane, and Fong clearly answer the question: Just how does one go about proving or disproving some aspect of evolutionary theory?	2003-04-14
US	49618395	R29VTMQE5E51VZ	0192803697	558215872	Palgrave's Golden Treasury	Books	5	37	37	N	N	The Finest English Lyrical Poetry - Highly Recommended	English lyrical poetry is among the world's finest poetry. Many years ago Francis Turner Palgrave, a professor of poetry at Oxford, compiled a highly respected anthology of English lyrical poetry.<br />I clearly recall my excitement in my first reading of Palgrave's collection. I have since become familiar with several other good anthologies, but Palgrave's remains my favorite.<br />Palgrave's remarkable anthology of English lyrical poetry is found with various titles: \\"The Golden Treasury of the Best Songs and Lyrical Poems in the English Language\\", or &quot;Palgrave's Golden Treasury from Shakespeare to the Present&quot;, or \\"Palgrave's Golden Treasury\\", or simply \\"The Golden Treasury\\".  Sometimes one title is found on the book cover and another on the title page.<br />Palgrave's \\"The Golden Treasury\\" has remained continuously in print since 1861, with Oxford University Press editions in 1907, 1909, 1929, 1940, 1964 (Section V added), and 1994 (Section V1 added). New printings occur every few years.<br />Today this remarkable anthology is now nearly 700 pages. The font size is large and easy to read.<br />Palgrave's somewhat sparse footnotes are only available for Sections I-IV. Many readers may need a good dictionary for occasional archaic words and unfamiliar references to Greek and Roman mythology. I have found it quite helpful and entertaining to have a copy of Bulfinch's The Age of Fable nearby. Whichever edition and printing that you acquire, I hope you enjoy Palgrave's selections as much as I did. Cheers.	2003-04-14
US	49618395	R3IHL8GCPAXCUV	0486663523	313107888	Introduction to Topology: Third Edition (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	186	192	N	N	Good Introduction to Metric Spaces and Topology	I was not a mathematics major, and only in recent years have I ventured into abstract mathematics. I was motivated to learn about topology as an aid to understanding a particular 3-D earth modeling application.    I read Introduction to Topology in three stages: as a review of set theory and metric spaces (chapters 1 and 2), then as an introduction to topology (chapter 3), and lastly as a detailed look at two important topological properties, connectedness (chapter 4) and compactness (chapter 5). I had previously read (and reviewed) another book titled Metric Spaces by Victor Bryant, but Mendelson is my first serious look at topology.    My reading of Mendelson - a 200-page text - required about 100 hours, substantially longer than the 40 to 60 hours estimated by an earlier reviewer. No solutions are provided for the section problems, which are generally proofs, not explicit problems.    The first chapter provides a concise overview of set theory and functions that is essential for Mendelson's later chapters on subsequent set-theoretic analysis of metric spaces and topology.     The second chapter is a solid introduction to metric spaces with good discussions on continuity, open balls and neighborhoods, limits from a metric space perspective, open sets and closed sets, subspaces, and equivalence of metric spaces. Chapter 2 concludes with a brief introduction to Hilbert space.    The third chapter introduces topological spaces as a generalization of metric spaces, and many theorems are largely restatements of the metric space theorems derived in chapter 2. I was thankful for this approach.    Mendelson begins chapter 3 by demonstrating that 1) open sets and neighborhoods are preserved in passing from a metric space to its associated topological space and 2) the existence of a one to one correspondence between the collection of all topological spaces and the collection of all neighborhood spaces.    He then reminds us that in a metric space we can say that there are points of a subset A arbitrarily close to a point x if the metric d(x, A) = 0. In characterizing this notion of arbitrary closeness in a topological space, Mendelson introduces the closure of A, the interior of A, and the boundary of A. Other topics included topological functions, continuity, homeomorphism (the equivalence relation), subspaces, and relative topology.  The final sections in chapter 3 on products of topological spaces, identification topologies, and categories and functors were more difficult.     In chapter 4 the initial sections (connectedness on the real line, the intermediate value theorem, and fixed point theorems) were largely familiar. But thereafter I became bogged down with the discussions of path-connected topological spaces, especially with the longer proofs involving the concepts of homotopic paths, the fundamental group, and simple connectedness.    Chapter 5, titled Compactness, was even more abstract and difficult, with topics like coverings, finite coverings, subcoverings, compactness, compactness on the real line, products of compact spaces, compact metric spaces, the Lebesgue number, the Bolzano-Weierstrass property, and countability. Perhaps, a reader more familiar with analysis would have less difficulty with the last two chapters.      In summary, Introduction to Topology is quite useful for self-study. Mendelson's short text was intended for a one-semester undergraduate course, and it is thereby ideal for readers that either require a basic introduction to topology, or need a quick review of material previously studied. The last two chapters on connectedness and compactness are substantially more difficult, but are still accessible to the persistent reader.	2003-04-11
US	49618395	R3ESQ8T2D0AO18	1572830069	633878873	Spanish Cape Mystery	Books	5	6	6	N	N	The Spanish Cape Mystery - Another Superbly Crafted Story	As I write this book review, I am still excited at having solved this mystery, not simply by guessing, but largely through careful deduction. My reasoning was not entirely flawless, nor as systematic and precise and complete as the final explanation by Ellery Queen, but it was sufficiently exacting to warrant some self-praise. I did take the author's suggestion and set the book aside for several hours and wrestled with the conundrum before looking at the final chapter.<br />The Spanish Cape Mystery is classic Ellery Queen: a superbly crafted mystery with intriguing characters, a rather remarkable setting, and a concluding exercise in impeccable logic. The title refers to both the fictional setting, a small rocky peninsula on the New England coast, and a key element in the mystery, a rather flamboyant item of dress.<br />Ellery Queen mysteries are entertainingly written, but are not as literate as works by P. D. James or Colin Dexter. However,  as his fans have come to expect, Ellery does sprinkle his conversation with literary and poetic quotations. Look for Voltaire, Bacon, Keats, Coleridge, La Rochefoucauld, Germaine de Stael, and William Collins in The Spanish Cape Mystery.  We also occasionally meet examples of Ellery's vocabulary excesses like natatorial habits and prestidigitating deductions. <br />Although The Spanish Cape Mystery was first published in 1935, it has been reprinted many times, and a paperback version is readily available through Amazon.com. Apparently, The Spanish Cape Mystery is also available on audio tape.<br />If you enjoy trying to unravel a carefully constructed mystery, I highly recommend Ellery Queen`s many excellent stories. The Spanish Cape Mystery would make a good introduction to Ellery Queen for the reader that has yet to have the pleasure of his acquaintance.	2003-03-31
US	49618395	R2KY2IUROPSM0R	0930330536	845157602	The Tragedy of Y: A Drury Lane Mystery	Books	5	4	6	N	N	More Somber than X - Disturbing Conclusion	I anticipated, as possibilities, the two alternative conclusions, one proposed by Inspector Thumm and the other by District Attorney Bruno. But both were logically flawed and disproved by Drury Lane. I failed to see the actual solution, but Drury Lane's meticulous analysis clearly demonstrated that the abundant clues pointed to a single answer.<br />I recently read (and reviewed) Ellery Queen's remarkable \\"The Tragedy of X\\" and I immediately went in search of \\"The Tragedy of Y\\". The eccentric retired Shakespearean actor, Drury Lane, introduced in X, again assists the New York police department in their investigation of a puzzling series of deaths. The tone is more dark and somber than in X and the mystery even more puzzling. The final twist was unsettling.<br />The notorious Hatter family in New York had been named the Mad Hatters by an imaginative reporter. The name fit. Given our cultural progress in the last several decades, today this dysfunctional family might have even qualified for a tasteless TV series. The story begins with an apparent suicide of York Hatter, or what at least appears to be the body of York Hatter. From the beginning we have uncertainty.<br />This story was classic Ellery Queen writing as Barnaby Ross. Some events appear a bit fantastical, but never actual fantasy. Y was written in 1932 and we readers today encounter situations that seem odd and dated. The medical practice is old fashioned and the medical science is suspect. A young woman takes a relaxing walk, alone, in a park at 10:30 PM.  A servant is paid a remarkably large sum, $75 per week, to work in an uncomfortable situation. A watch has a radium dial. A pair of men's white oxfords is a clue. And Ellery Queen provides us with an occasional vocabulary exercise: chirography, eremitic, invertible, saturnine.<br />There are two more Drury Lane mysteries - The Tragedy of Z and Drury Lane's Last Case. I don't expect that they will be easy to find, but I am sure that the effort will be worthwhile.	2003-03-14
US	49618395	R3BZ0H3OEGVXDZ	0486295443	488504653	"To His Coy Mistress" and Other Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Great Selection of Marvell's Poetry - Fascinating Imagery	I rarely recognized the full significance of Andrew Marvell's imagery on my first reading, and with each subsequent reading I made new discoveries. Likewise, Marvell's themes are often complex and require thought and contemplation. This is poetry to be read again and again. Nonetheless, Marvell's language is characterized by clarity and even the first reading is quite enjoyable.<br />Although Andrew Marvell is recognized today as one of the great poets of the English language, many readers are familiar with only a few of his works, notably To His Coy Mistress (found in most anthologies) and a few of his pastoral poems like Damon the Mower and The Mower's Song. This little Dover edition offers an inexpensive way to become more acquainted with a good selection of Marvell's versatile poetry.<br />Andrew Marvell was active in English politics during the turbulent period of Charles I, Oliver Cromwell, and Charles II. His love poems and lyrics were private writings not published until three years after his death. Through the years a few poets like Coleridge and Wordsworth recognized Marvell's genius, but he largely remained unknown. <br />Fortunately, a scholar, Sir Herbert Grierson, and a noted poet, T. S. Elliot, jointly brought attention in the 1920s to the remarkable work of the \\"metaphysical poets of the seventeenth century\\", especially Andrew Marvell.<br />In this Dover edition the spelling and punctuation has been modernized somewhat for clarity. The footnotes are sparse and I found it helpful to occasionally visit the dictionary. The collection includes a wide selection of Marvell's love poems, lyric poetry, religious poetry, and two political poems - An Horatian Ode upon Cromwell's Return from Ireland and the rather long poem Upon Appleton House.<br />It is not easy to select only a few favories as this collection is quite exceptional. Certainly my list would include: To His Coy Mistress - The Mower to the Glowworms - The Mower Against the Gardens - Damon the Mower - The Mower's Song - On a Drop of Dew - Eyes and Tears - Bermudas - and A Dialogue Between the Soul and the Body. <br />The other poems in this collection include: The Definition of Love - The Unfortunate Lover - The Gallery - The Fair Singer - Mourning - Ametas and Thestylis Making Hay Ropes - The Nymph Complaining for the Death of Her Fawn - Daphnis and Chloe - The Match - Young Love - The Picture of Little T. C. in a Prospect of Flowers - The Garden - A Dialogue Between the Resolved Soul and Created Pleasure - and The Coronet.	2003-03-10
US	49618395	RMWPZ0Y2C3C4R	0930330439	845157602	Tragedy of X	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Overlooked Gem by Ellery Queen - 5-Stars	The highly popular Ellery Queen mysteries in the 1930s, 40s, 50s, and 60s were penned by an author with the same name. It is as though the Sherlock Holmes mysteries had been authored by Sherlock Holmes, rather than Dr. Watson or Sir Conan Doyle. The actual identity of Ellery Queen (the author) was secret, until much to everyone's surprise, it was revealed that the author was actually two writers that jointly created these complex stories.<br />A few years after the the first Ellery Queen novels were published, a Mr. Barnaby Ross produced \\"The Tragedy of X\\", followed by Y and Z, and concluding with \\"Drury Lane's Last Case\\". Later the true identity of Barnaby Ross was unveiled as Ellery Queen. Confusing? The Ellery Queen and Drury Lane mysteries are catalogued under Ellery Queen in most libraries. <br />I have long been a fan of Ellery Queen. I am nearly always baffled by the mysteries. The characteristic conclusion, a detailed logical analysis revealing the solution, always amazes me. How could I have gone astray once again and not seen the obvious conclusion? On the rare occasions that I unravel the solution, I remain exuberant for weeks.<br />Drury Lane is an eccentric, retired Shakespearean actor of great intellect and great wealth and is sought out by New York City professional detectives (and the District Attorney) whenever they are baffled, like me. For those readers familiar with some of the more fantastical stories by Ellery Queen, it should be no surprise that Drury Lane inhabits an Elizabethan castle on the Hudson River. His close servant Quacey is an ancient hunchback, bald, bewhiskered, and wrinkled.<br />I enjoyed this Drury Lane mystery for many of the same reasons I admire other Ellery Queen stories. The clues are visible and yet invisible, the plot is intriguing, and the detective himself is fascinating. Ellery Queen and Drury Lane both exercise precise logic that leads to a single conclusion. <br />Having been written in the early 1930s, the story unintentionally reveals details of everyday life that now seem foreign. A weekly five dollar deposit to a savings account is evidence of frugal behavior. A doorman manipulates a speaking tube. The police awaken a sleepy elevator operator to pilot them up six floors. Longstreet, an early victim, paid bus fares for his ten guests with a dollar bill, and received change. A ten day period in the hospital for an appendix operation is considered a minimal stay. Dictaphones and carbon paper and typewriters are standard. Photographs and fingerprints are not faxed, but transmitted by a telephotographic device.<br />Mild ethnic slurs pepper the gruff Inspector Thumm's interrogation of witnesses. The medical inspector's dialogue includes liberal use of Ja and Nein and other Germanic words We meet Italians and Irish and Germans and others in New York, but hyphenated Americans had yet to be invented.<br />A final clue, interesting in itself but not essential for unraveling this mystery, is explained by the final word of the final sentence in the final chapter.	2003-03-10
US	49618395	RCAKPFCU4SIFU	0942208048	566948296	Areopagitica: Freedom of the Press (Little Humanist Classics)	Books	1	28	28	N	N	Avoid Censored Version by Bandana Books	Let the buyer beware! I should have recalled this adage and examined my purchase more carefully.<br />I am now the owner of writings by the new John Milton, a politically correct John Milton, a John Milton that rejects manhood for adulthood and rejects man for person. This new Milton embraces the humanist pronouns hu and hus and hum, non-sexist third person pronouns. He, his and him and she, her and hers are no more.<br />Milton's quotation of Euripides is likewise changed. Euripides now says' \\"And hu who can and will, deserves high praise\\". Euripides stands corrected.<br />Milton's use of archaic English has also been modernized. Milton has cast aside much of his seventeenth century English. This Bandanna Books version of John Milton is no longer John Milton, but an altered, censored revision.<br />Ironically, in the essay Areopagitica John Milton is arguing to the Parliament of England for freedom of the press, specifically for the liberty of unlicensed printing. Would John Milton have approved this modern, secular, nonsexist version of his essay?<br />Milton would have agreed that Bandanna Books had a right to publish, but I suspect that he would have argued that that Bandanna Books had a moral obligation to label the book cover to indicate that Milton's essay had been significantly altered to fit a peculiar nonsexist standard. <br />Bandanna Books in Santa Barbara, California offers other humanist works including Walt Whitman's Leaves of Grass, Plato's Apology and Crito, and commentaries by Confucius. Unless you find comfort in hu, hus, and hum, I suggest that the traditional Whitman, Plato, and Confucius might be adequate and that you look elsewhere. Let the buyer beware!	2003-02-26
US	49618395	R3JPI44EZN9D47	0192100122	558215872	The Golden Treasury of the Best Songs and Lyrical Poems in the English Language (Oxford standard authors)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	The Finest Lyrical Poetry In English - Highly Recommended	I now enjoy poetry almost as much as mathematics and physics. I credit my appreciation for poetry to the cumulative effects of three Poetic forces: a Publisher plus Perrine plus Palgrave. <br />I could not resist the attraction of Dover Publications' Thrift Editions of the poetry of Keats, Wordsworth, Burns, Blake, Shelley, Shakespeare, Marvell, Frost, and many other poets. I began to read poetry for leisure and enjoyment.<br />Perrine's Sound and Sense, an intriguing text on reading poetry, helped me to recognize poetic forms, structure, sounds, and meanings. I began to see the subtleties and beauty of great poetry.<br />My discovery of the third force, \\"The Golden Treasury of the Best Songs and Lyrical Poems in the English Language\\" by Francis Turner Palgrave, was pure serendipity. I had read some lyrical poetry, some odes, elegies, and sonnets, but I had never explored the full scope of English lyrical poetry. <br />I clearly recall my excitement in my first reading of Palgrave's collection. I am fortunate that my first extended travels into English poetry were guided by a master. I have since become familiar with several other good anthologies, but Palgrave's remains my favorite. <br />Palgrave's \\"The Golden Treasury\\" has remained continuously in print since 1861, with Oxford University Press editions in 1907, 1909, 1929, 1940, 1964 (Section V added), and 1994 (Section VI added). I have the 1994 edition (sixth). The two additions, Sections V and VI, include a sampling of modern poets. This remarkable anthology is now nearly 700 pages. The font size is large and easy to read. <br />Palgrave's notes for Books I-IV are good, but many readers, like myself, may need a good dictionary for occasional archaic words and unfamiliar references to Greek and Roman mythology. I have found it quite helpful and entertaining to have a copy of Bulfinch's The Age of Fable nearby. I hope you enjoy Palgrave's selections of the finest poets in the English language as much as I did.	2003-02-25
US	49618395	R2JALG0NA69KF7	006270110X	630021020	Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia: Fourth Edition	Books	4	69	69	N	N	Not My Favorite, But A Good Choice	Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia, a favorite literary reference source for many years, has been substantially revised and updated in recent years with more emphasis on African American, Eastern, Middle Eastern, African, South American, Eastern European, and women's literature.<br />Benet's compilation includes biographies of authors and poets, short summaries of literary works, historical data on literary movements, and definitions of literary terms. Other entries encompass more general topics that might interest readers: historical definitions (Napoleon Bonaparte, Congress of Vienna, Vietnam War, Vikings), religious terms (trimurti - Hindu, Trinity - Christian, tripitaka - Buddhist), and art and music references (e.g., Grandma Moses, Picasso, and Mozart).<br />I find Benet's short essays and definitions to be well-written and quite helpful. It is an excellent reference work.<br />However, my personal favorite is the Merriam Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature, a joint effort of Merriam Webster and Encyclopedia of Britannica. Benet's and Merriam Webster's compilations overlap considerably, but they are not identical.<br />Benet's work is less complete; most notably it has fewer definitions for literary terms as well as fewer biographies of authors and poets. I find that Merriam-Webster's has many more descriptive essays on specific literary works and poems. For example, Benet's does not have an entry for The Name of the Rose, I Sing the Body Electric, Love in the Time of Cholera, For the Union Dead, or many other titles found in Merriam Webster. <br />Where Benet's and Merriam Webster's have the same entry (e.g., Cervantes, Charlie Chan, Kazuo Ishiguro, and Paradise Lost), they are both quite good. Merriam Webster's has some photos and drawings scattered throughout the text; Benet's does not.<br />I give 5 stars to Merriam Webster's and 4 stars to Benet's.	2003-02-24
US	49618395	R2A6SQ3UNIX48H	051716101X	899098173	Keats: Truth & Imagination (Illustrated Poetry Series)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Beautiful Blend of Art and Poetry - Ideal for Gift	There are many good collections of  the poetry of John Keats. Why would you be interested in this particular book, titled \\"Keats - Truth and Imagination\\"?    Each poem is accompanied by a painting, often by an artist inspired by Keats' poetry. The paintings are sensual and exquisite, complementing the beauty of Keats' language. This attractive little book is printed on glossy paper. It is moderately priced and would make an excellent gift.     Amusingly, the book's printing history reads like the credits for a major Hollywood production: Created and Produced by Flame Tree Publishing, part of The Foundry Creative Media Company Limited, published (1999) by Gramercy Books, a trademark of Random House Value Publishing, and written (Introduction, Author's Note, and Chronology) and compiled by K. E. Sullivan. The ISBN is 0-517-16101-X for my 1999 edition.    Sullivan's compilation is quite good; it consists of many of  Keats' most popular work as well as some lesser known poems. My only disappointment was that Sullivan decided (or was compelled) to present only a short extract from \\"The Eve of St. Agnes\\", one of my favorites.     This collection includes several of Keats' Odes (Grecian Urn, Melancholy, Nightingale, Psyche, and To Autumn) - Fancy - Happy is England! I could be content - How many bards gild the lapses of time - Keen, fitful gusts are whispering here and there - La Belle Dame sans Merci - O solitude! if I must with thee dwell - Ode - On a Leander Gem which Miss Reynolds, my Kind Friend, Gave Me - On First Looking into Chapman's Homer - On the Grasshopper and the Cricket - Stanzas - To Hope - To Leigh Hunt, Esq. - To one who has been long in city pent - and the longer poem Isabella, or The Pot of Basil - and extracts from The Fall of Hyperion and from The Eve of St. Agnes.     John Keats is not a difficult poet, but occasionally the reader may encounter some unfamiliar references to mythology or somewhat archaic words. However, I am quite convinced that the attractive format of this book, the beautiful art work, and the careful selection of poems makes this small book an ideal gift for readers either familiar or unfamiliar with poetry. For that matter, I suggest you consider giving this book to yourself.	2003-02-24
US	49618395	R2UZE6PI8PBRFR	0877790426	615146603	Merriam-Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature	Books	5	32	33	N	N	I Use My Copy Frequently - A Valuable Resource	The Merriam Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature professes to be a comprehensive and authoritative guide to the world of literature - authors, works, terms, and topics - from all eras and all parts of the world. In my view this joint effort of Merriam Webster and Encyclopedia of Britannica is exactly what it claims to be. I have used this valuable resource for several years and I highly recommend it.<br />This is a rather heavy, thick book and not suitable for a carrying in a backpack. I keep my copy readily accessible in my favorite reading area. Whenever I look up a topic, I pencil-in a small check mark. My little check marks are now scattered throughout this reference book.<br />The short descriptive passages, generally around 100 to 500 words, are well written and often sufficiently intriguing that I find myself moving from one related topic to another. This compilation is ideal for students and teachers, but I recommend this single volume encyclopedia for anyone that enjoys literature.<br />The references include literary works, classic authors, contemporary authors, mythology and folklore, literary terms, literary styles, historical literary movements, scholars and critics, and literary awards and prizes. I rarely fail to find whatever I am looking for. I would be quite surprised if this compilation did not meet your needs.<br />I also have a copy of another good reference work, Benet's Reader's Encyclopedia, possibly the best-known literary encyclopedia. Benet's compilation overlaps considerably with the Merriam Webster's Encyclopedia of Literature, but the two are not identical.<br />Benet's reference work contains less literary references, most notably fewer literary terms and definitions. Benet's is less likely than Merriam-Webster to have a short essay on a specific literary work or poem. For example, Benet's does not have an entry for The Name of the Rose, I Sing the Body Electric, Love in the Time of Cholera, For the Union Dead, or many other titles found in Merriam Webster. <br />However, Benet's compilation is wider in scope, having many historical definitions (e.g., Napoleon Bonaparte, Congress of Vienna, Vietnam War, Vikings), more religious terms (e.g., trimurti - Hindu and tripitaka - Buddhist), and more art and music references (e.g., Grandma Moses, Picasso, and Mozart).<br />I give 5 stars to Merriam Webster and 4 stars to Benet.	2003-02-24
US	49618395	R2IEJ7YCG9LRI7	0806127090	81153364	Wild Animals and Settlers on the Great Plains	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Wildlife vs Great Plains Settlers 1865-79	The journals, diaries, and other primary accounts of the men and women that settled the American West occasionally describe exciting events, but more commonly these historical records detail the routine life of an isolated settler surviving in a harsh and unforgiving land. I marvel at the courage and perseverance exhibited by so many common men and women. <br />In \\"Wild Animals and Settlers on the Great Plains\\", Professor Fleharty has compiled primary accounts (not reminiscences penned years later) from newspapers and diaries to detail the impact of settlers on the native fauna of Kansas during a short, critical period, 1865 -1879. His reports, while specific to Kansas, can be generalized to the settlement of the extensive Great Plains of western America.<br />I was pained by some of the detailed accounts of uncontrolled hunting, of unwitting habitat destruction, of seeming obliviousness to the irreversible changes that were occurring. The newspaper accounts seemed so real, because they were. <br />Professor Fleharty does more than report the decline of the buffalo, bear, deer, antelope bobcat, and other animals during this period of intense settlement. He also shows, again from primary accounts, that a concern for the diminishing wildlife gradually developed, leading to hunting regulations and protective legislation. Our modern understanding and appreciation for protecting wildlife and the environment did not suddenly emerge a few years ago, but evolved steadily from these early concerns.<br />The strength of this book - its extensive quotations from newspapers and other primary sources - is also its weakness. I commend Professor Fleharty for his extensive research. However, as might be expected, many of these reports are similar, some even repetitious. Some, possibly a sizeable fraction, could have been relegated to an appendix, or possibly footnotes.<br />Possibly because Dr. Fleharty was trained as a zoologist, and not as an interpretive historian, he seemed reluctant to offer interpretations and extrapolations based on the rather sparse and anecdotal reports. And yet, as a zoologist willing to undertake historical research, his interpretations and insights, even speculations, would have been very interesting indeed.<BR> <BR>If Dr Fleharty does revise this interesting book, I would like more discussions on how and why things happened. Tell us more about animal population dynamics in Kansas from 1865 to the present. What other ecological trends were set in motion during this short, catastrophic period?  Could more steps have been taken earlier to mitigate the negative impact of the extensive settlement on the Great Plains?<br />Also, while I recognize that we cannot recreate the Great Plains of the 1860s, I am curious about Professor Fleharty's views on the ongoing movement to create large, natural grasslands preserves in the mid-continent. We cannot change the past, but we may be able to shape the future.	2003-02-21
US	49618395	R3LUAI31X3O7AN	0809288311	895200451	One Hundred and One Famous Poems	Books	5	55	55	N	N	Excellent Anthology and Great History Lesson	My 1929 edition has always looked old, the pages were yellowing, and the oval portraits of the poets seemed outdated. I have had this old favorite on my bookshelf since childhood.    Over the last month I again read all 101 poems, rediscovering poets and poetry that I had nearly forgotten. Cook's compilation is a historical snapshot, one made before the Great Depression, WWII, the Cold War, Vietnam, Civil Rights, the fall of the Soviet Union, and the US, as the only super power, faced with global terrorism.    America was still fairly youthful in 1929; the Civil War had ended only 64 years before. Possibly reflecting our confidence in our American spirit and our sense of manifest destiny, this anthology includes a remarkable number of American poets. Some are no longer familiar, but their poetry sheds light on an earlier America, one that inhabited a less complicated world.    One-third of the 'famous poems' belong to just twelve American poets - William Cullen Bryant -2 poems, Ralph Waldo Emerson -4, Eugene Field -3, Oliver Wendell Holmes -3, Vachel Lindsay -2, Henry Wadsworth Longfellow -7, James Russell Lowell -2, Edwin Markham -2, Edgar Allan Poe -2, James Whitcomb Riley -2, Edward Sill -2, and John Greenleaf Whittier -3. I did not recall the names Field, Lindsay, Markham, or Sill. But I clearly remember as a young boy being fascinated by the paradox in Eugene Field's 'The Duel'.    Surprisingly, Emily Dickinson and Walt Whitman rated only one poem each. The then contemporary poets Robert Frost, Edna St. Vincent Millay, Edgar Lee Masters, and Carl Sandburg each have one poem.    Another one-third comes from 15 noted English poets (9 with multiple selections) - Elizabeth and Robert Browning, Burns, Byron, Gray, George Elliott, Leigh Hunt, Keats, Kipling, Milton, Sir Walter Scott, Shakespeare, Shelley, Tennyson, and Wordsworth.    The poets that created the final one-third 'famous poems' are fascinating in their anonymity. I simply did not recognize Lieut. Col. John McCrae, Henry Holcomb Bennett, Edmund Vance Cook, George Washington Doane, Sam Walter Foss, William Ernest Henley, Mary Howitt, Sergeant Joyce Kilmer, Winifred M. Letts, Clement Clarke Moore, Thomas Buchanan Read, and Ella Wheeler Wilcox.    Their poems, however, were not entirely strangers: But let me live by the side of the road and be a friend of man - We shall not sleep though poppies grow in Flanders Field - a poem as lovely as a tree - Laugh and the world laughs with you - I am the captain of my soul - Will you walk into my parlor?, said the spider to the fly - The Night before Christmas.    Many poems reflect the virtues of honor, commitment, respect of God, patriotism, honesty, perseverance, courage, respect for others, and loyalty. Others are playful and simply fun to read. Lay this old, outdated collection next to your favorite chair. It's great reading. You won't be disappointed.	2003-02-16
US	49618395	R1YZJWTV3NW94J	0802132790	514293529	100 Poems by 100 Poets: An Anthology	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Eclectic Anthology - Stimulating and Provocative	These are not necessarily the best-loved poems, nor the most famous poems, nor the most memorized poems.  These are the best poems written in the English language, one each from the 100 best poets. So say the three editors - Harold Pinter, Geoffrey Godbert, and Anthony Astbury.<br />They apparently argued heatedly, but eventually arrived at a unanimous decision for each poet selected.  They may not change your mind, but their choices will stimulate and challenge the reader. And this anthology makes very good reading.<br />I was disappointed that Pinter, Godbert, and Astbury did not share their discussions and arguments. How did they select the 100 best poets? Who was 101? Where are John Milton, William Cullen Bryant, Longfellow, and Whittier? For those poets that were chosen, I was curious whether some of my favorite poems had even been discussed as they made their final selection of the 'best' poem. Did they have bias toward works less frequently included in popular anthologies? Were they intentionally provocative?<br />For example, they did not select Thomas Gray's Elegy Written in a Country Churchyard, nor any of William Blake's poems from Songs of Innocence and Songs of Experience, nor a poem from A. E. Housman's admired A Shropshire Lad, nor a familiar poem by Robert Frost, nor Dylan Thomas' well-known Do Not Go Gentle into That Good Night. I was also surprised by their choices for Kipling, Shelley, Pope, Donne, and to a lesser extent, Wordsworth.<br />Their selections for Shakespeare (I see many 'best' choices), Coleridge, Marvell, Keats (again, many 'best' poems), Burns, Carroll, Arnold, Poe, Stevens, and a few other poets were more in agreement with my preferences. I found that a bit reassuring.<br />I recommend this collection to anyone that enjoys poetry. Pinter, Godbert, and Astbury give us a selection that is less predictable than that found in most anthologies, and is thereby more provocative and stimulating. Have fun!	2003-02-16
US	49618395	RUOHPNWFPCG6R	0486285537	304984665	100 Best-Loved Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	103	103	N	N	Great Selection of American and British Poetry	Philip Smith has assembled a very good sampling of the best poetry in the English language. We read Marlowe, Shakespeare, Donne, Jonson, Herrick, Milton, Gray, Blake, Burns, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Byron, Shelley, Keats, both Brownings, Longfellow, Poe, Whitman, Dickinson, Hardy, Housman, Yeats, Frost, Pound, Millay, Cummings, Auden, Dylan Thomas, and many others. This inexpensive Dover edition is an excellent buy.    The collection is as advertised: these are the best-loved poems in the English language.  These are familiar poems, poems that are accessible to casual readers of poetry, poems that continue to resonate today. Smith's compilation is fun to read and to reread. Any teacher would find it ideal for introductory English literature classes, honors high school or college.    What is missing? This collection excludes translations of classical poetry, poetry of the non-English speaking world, and contemporary English-speaking poets. But this little book contains enough gems to satisfy any treasure hunter.    Looking for a more eclectic anthology? See 100 Poems by 100 Poets compiled by Harold Pinter, Geoffrey Godbert, and Anthony Astbury. They present what they consider (by unanimous decision, often after heated argument) to be the best poem by each of the 100 best poets in the English language. Their choices only occasionally overlap with the better known selections in Philip Smith's Dover edition.    Another good choice is One Hundred and One Famous Poems, compiled by Roy J. Cook in 1927, that has long been a favorite anthology of British and American poets. It is an interesting collection, as it includes many poets that are now less familiar or even forgotten, but who were popular in the early part of the twentieth century. Take a look at this anthology. You will be pleasantly surprised. It has been reprinted many times and it is not difficult to find.	2003-02-16
US	49618395	R1N56FWNFB4T0E	0716724960	280753984	General Chemistry, Second Edition	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Good Examples, Good Illustrations, Great for Self-Study	I have not seriously looked at a chemistry textbook in years. I still recall with some unease my classes in inorganic chemistry, organic chemistry, biochemistry, geochemistry, and physical chemistry. Despite our long hours together, chemistry and I were never close friends.<br />A while back I found myself browsing \\"General Chemistry\\", a widely used text authored by P. W. Atkins and J. A. Beran. Surprisingly, I transitioned from a cursory review mode to a dedicated reading of the entire text. I emerged six months later with an excitment for chemistry that I had never developed while attending university.<br />Like most first year college science textbooks, the latest edition of Atkins' text is thick (about 1,000 glossy pages), heavy, and incredibly expensive. I used an older second edition (1990) that is available for a substantially reduced price on Amazon.<br />I suspect that Atkins' text is more detailed than many first year chemistry books. I found the section on Redox Equations and Half Reactions to be troublesome. I had difficulty with chapters 14 and 15 on Acids and Bases (pgs. 531-620) and even set the book aside for several weeks. I am unsure whether the problem was with the text or with me, probably a little of both. The last 300 pages seemed easier going. The organic chemistry sections were well written.<br />I appreciated the way that the authors clearly explained the solution strategy for ALL example problems before detailing the solution itself. The problem is defined, a strategy for solving the problem is discussed, and the solution is clearly shown. This feature makes Atkins' textbook particularly sutiable for self-study and review.<br />I especially enjoyed the discussions on special topics like Processing Ores, Scanning Tunneling Microscope, Redox Reactions in Photography, Photoelectrochemistry, Swimming Pool Chemistry, Stalactite Growth, and Smog Formation.<br />I am puzzled why reader reviews for Atkins' various textbooks seem so inconsistent.  Some readers rave about his textbooks; others hate them. I have read this book from cover to cover and I join those readers that recommend Atkins' textbooks.<br />Recently I came across a more current edition of Atkins' General Chemistry (now co-authoed with Loretta Jones) that has been substantially restructured. The new 3D drawings of molecules were especially impressive. If you can afford it, buy a newer edition, but avoid the high cost of the latest edition unless it is a class requirement.	2003-02-14
US	49618395	R2KC8Y1OQNXLRK	0195197984	191955393	A Book of English Pastoral Verse	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fascinating Anthology - A Blend of Poetry and History	In its common form pastoral poetry describes an idyllic rural world that serves as a basis for comparison with a more distressed and degraded urban society. Sometimes this criticism of existing society is subtle, muted, and disguised.  The pastoral form originated with the ancient Greeks (Virgil's Eclogues), was revived in Renaissance Italy (Petrarch and Mantuan), and subsequently made popular in England by Edmund Spenser's Shepheardes Calendar (1579).    John Barrell and John Bull, in jointly creating this anthology (A Book of English Pastoral Verse), used a broad interpretation to include formal eclogues, poems, pastoral drama, agricultural poems (patterned after Virgil's Georgics), and even satirical poems critical of the pastoral style.  The verse is arranged chronologically into eight sections, and each group is introduced by intriguing commentary on how pastoral poetry continued to evolve in response to changing social, political, and economic conditions in England. This historical commentary adds substantial value to this rather unique anthology.    We read Spenser, Sidney, Donne, Jonson, Herrick, Milton, Marvell, Pope, Gray, Cowper, Blake, Wordsworth, Coleridge, Keats, Shelley, and Arnold, as well as lesser-known poets.    John Barrell and John Bull modernized the punctuation a bit, but they only changed archaic spellings where they judged it absolutely necessary.  As explanatory notes were rare, I was initially uncomfortable, but I soon learned to rely on the sound and rhythm of the verse to carry me through any difficult lines. In retrospect I am sure that I more quickly gained an appreciation for pastoral verse than if I had been halting frequently to read footnotes.    My 1975 hardback edition (titled A Book of English Pastoral Verse) from Oxford University Press is not easy to find. However, this anthology is also available in a 1982 paperback titled Penquin Book of English Pastoral Verse (or, alternatively as English Pastoral Verse). There is an interesting article in the periodical Jacket 12, July 2000 in which David Kennedy writes that the pastoral is alive and well today among contemporary poets despite the contention by John Barrell and John Bull that the pastoral is an outdated verse form.    I highly recommend this work, especially to anyone interested in exploring how changes in English poetry reflects changes in English society itself.	2003-02-13
US	49618395	RLRTPRSZ62HOT	0486270734	895316403	Favorite Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Wordsworth's Greatest Period, 1798-1806 - Dover Edition	The remarkable English Romantic Poets - William Wordsworth, Samuel Taylor Coleridge, Percy Bysshe Shelley, Lord Byron, and John Keats - remain among the favorite poets in the English language. This litte Dover edition, titled Favorite Poems, is a good introduction to much of Wordsworth's greatest poetry.<br />Wordworth's poetry is quite accessible to the modern reader.  There is no need for extensive familiarity with Greek and Roman mythology, nor for knowledge of archaic poetic terms. Footnotes and a glossary are not required.<br />I have read these 39 poems comprising the Dover collection three or four times over the last few years.  With each reading I find Wordsworth's questioning of man's relationship to nature and \\"what man has made of man\\" to be as relevant today as it was two centuries ago.<br />My favorites in this collection include:<br />Composed Upon Westminister Bridge Sept. 3, 1802 - Elegiac Stanzas - I Wandered Lonely as a Cloud - In London, September 1802 - Lines Composed a Few Miles Above Tintern Abbey - Lines Written in Early Spring - London, 1802 - Mutability - My Heart Leaps Up When I Behold - Nuns Fret Not at Their Convent's Narrow Room - Nutting - Ode: Intimations of Immortality from Recollections of Early Childhood - On the Extinction of the Venetian Republic - Resolution and Independence - Scorn Not the Sonnet - She Dwelt Along the Untrodden Ways - The World is Too Much with Us, Late and Soon.<br />The other poems in this collection are:<br />The Affliction of Margaret - Anecdote for Fathers - Character of the Happy Warrior - Expostulation and Reply - Extempore Effusion upon the Death of James Hogg - I Traveled Among Unknown Men - The Idiot Boy - Inside of King's College Chapel, Cambridge - Lucy Gray - November 1806 - Ode to Duty - The Pet Lamb - She Was a Phantom of Delight - A Slumber Did My Spirit Seal - The Solitary Reaper - Strange Fits of Passion I Have Known - Thought of a Briton on the Subjugation of Switzerland - Three Years She Grew in Sun and Shower - To Sleep - To Toussaint L'Ouverture - We Are Seven.<br />For the reader looking for a more extensive collection of Wordsworth's poetry, explanatory notes, and some poetic criticism, I recommend the hardbound Everyman's Library \\"Selected Poems\\", edited by Damian Davies. ISBN 1-85715-245-Xin Sun and Shower - To Sleep - To Toussaint L'Ouverture - We Are Seven.<br />For the reader looking for a more extensive collection of Wordsworth's poetry, explanatory notes, and some poetic criticism, I recommend the hardbound Everyman's Library \\"Selected Poems\\", edited by Damian Davies. ISBN 1-85715-245-X	2003-02-13
US	49618395	RIVF7SIMSX5Z7	039390038X	163964933	Bartholmew Fair (New Mermaids)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Good Footnotes Can Save the Day, or the Play	Ben Jonson requires effort. His allusions to topical events tend to be obscure today, his penchant for having some characters quote Latin phrases can be a barrier (some characters misquote Latin, and we, the alert audience, are supposed to chuckle), and his use of unfamiliar colloquialisms and bawdy comments is yet another challenge.     Despite these difficulties, Jonson's humor has weathered four centuries and most readers - with a little persistence - will enjoy Jonson's better known plays like Volpone, The Alchemist, and Bartholomew Fair.      In some ways I found Bartholomew Fair to be more difficult than either Volpone or The Alchemist. Even with a second reading, I still needed to refer to the cast listing to keep track of the multitude of characters (thirty-five or so) that come and go. To make matters worse some characters insist on wearing disguises and changing their names.     The dialogue, as I alluded earlier, nearly overwhelmed me at times, but I was rescued by the excellent footnotes by G. R. Hibbard in the New Mermaid edition to unravel obscure comments. Thanks in part to Hibbard's footnotes, not only did I survive, I have actually developed a liking for Bartholomew Fair's fortune hunters, country bumpkins, foolish gentry, zealous Puritans, bawdy lower class elements, a pompous judge, purse snatchers and con men.     Bartholomew Fair has a rather unusual introduction in which Ben Jonson cautions his audience that the author is sensitive to criticism and it would be best that they behave. Jonson had not forgotten the acrimonious reception for his most recent play, a tragedy titled Catiline, and he had no intention of having this play suffer likewise. Incredibly, Jonson had stagehands read a contractual agreement between the playwright and the audience defining rules for a proper and appropriate method of criticism. Fortunately for all, Bartholomew Fair proved to be popular. It remained so for many years.     I have also used the inexpensive Oxford World Classics edition titled The Alchemist and Other Plays and its footnotes are quite helpful. My preference is the New Mermaids edition published by A & C Black/W W Norton. The introduction is more extensive, the font larger, and the paper quality better, but it is a little more expensive.	2002-11-25
US	49618395	R3LOG0LVNYCXHP	0710208383	480618439	Ben Jonson: His Life and Work (Routledge Library Editions: Renaissance Drama)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Ben Jonson's Life Makes Good Reading	For me, as for many, Ben Jonson has remained hidden in the shadow of Shakespeare. Recently, I read four satirical comedies by Jonson - Volpone, The Alchemist, Epicene, and Bartholomew Fair - and I was surprised by how well his humor had weathered the cultural change of four centuries. In looking around for more works by Jonson, I stumbled upon an intriguing biography titled \\"Ben Jonson, His Life and Work\\" by Rosalind Miles.<br />Ben Jonson is remembered for some of his plays and for much of his poetry. He was the master of the English masque, a formal court entertainment played before the king. His masques for King James were elaborate productions involving rich allegorical verse, gorgeous costumes, and magnificent scenery automated by machinery. In 1616 King James granted him 65 pounds a year for life and Ben Jonson thereby became the first Poet Laureate of England.<br />Jonson did not live the quiet life of a scholar. Adventure, danger, crisis, and bellicose debate characterized his life, and as Dr. Miles observed, Jonson could never play life safe. As a young man, he volunteered for military service fighting Spain in Holland, but the action was limited. Incredibly, he challenged one of the invading Spanish soldiers to single combat in the no-man's land between the two armies. He killed his opponent and like a scene from classical literature, victoriously stripped him of his weapons and armor.  Several years later in London he barely avoided death by hanging for killing an actor in a duel. He was forced to defend himself in the courts on political censorship charges on several occasions. At age 46 he inexplicitably journeys on foot 400 miles to Scotland, saying that he had a \\"salmon-like instinct\\" to visit the place of his ancient origins. Ben Jonson's life makes good reading.<br />Dr. Miles has created a fascinating and enjoyable blend of biography, history, and literary review. For me the highlight of this well researched biography was her extensive use of the writings of Ben Jonson and of his contemporaries, both admirers and detractors. I highly recommend her book to any reader with interest in Elizabethan and Jacobean drama and poetry.	2002-11-21
US	49618395	R2306V9IUZCE17	0192822527	985869394	The Alchemist and Other Plays: Volpone, or The Fox; Epicene, or The Silent Woman; The Alchemist; Bartholomew Fair (The World's Classics)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Great Introduction to Ben Jonson's Comedies	I recently read the early 17th century comedy \\"Volpone\\", my first introduction to Ben Jonson.  I was surprised by how well Jonson's humor had traveled through 400 years of cultural change. I did have difficulty with Jonson's dedication (several pages), the introductory argument, and the prologue as well as a \\"Pythagorean literary satire\\" in Act One, Scene One. But thereafter I found the humor to be natural and enjoyable. I even found myself somewhat sympathetic for the unscrupulous Volpone, Mosca, Voltore, Corbaccio, and Corvino.  I immediately hunted around on my dustier bookshelves for other works of Ben Jonson.<br />\\"Epicene\\" was less easy to digest, but was worth the effort. There is a surprising twist in the final scene and I suggest that the reader avoid any literary criticism or introductions to \\"Epicene\\" until after your first reading. I had less empathy for the characters in \\"Epicene\\" and it was difficult to identify any \\"good guys\\". The characters were not terribly disagreeable, but simply dilettantes that had little concern for morality or ethics. The dialogue is more obscure (and more bawdy) than in \\"Volpone\\". I found it helpful to first read the footnotes for a scene before actually reading the scene itself.<br />\\"The Alchemist\\" is more like \\"Volpone\\".  The main characters are unscrupulous con-men; their targets are gullible, greedy individuals. I learned quite a bit about alchemy, at least alchemy as practiced by 17th century con-men. As with \\"Volpone\\" and \\"Epicene\\", I was unable to predict how Ben Jonson would bring the play to a satisfactory conclusion. I enjoyed \\"The Alchemist\\" and I expect that I will read it again. I don't know if it is performed very often, but it would probably be quite entertaining.<br />\\"Bartholomew Fair\\" introduces a large, motley collection of characters that largely converse in lower class colloquialisms that require some effort to master. The comedy was intended in part to be a satire on Puritans and thereby please King James, but it was equally an introduction to the varied individuals that might be encountered at an annual fair.  It was not easy to keep track of the many characters and I continually referred to the cast listing to reorient myself. <br />There are a number of collections of Ben Jonson's plays. I recommend an inexpensive collection, \\"The Alchemist and Other Plays\\", publish by Oxford University Press as a World's Classic. The introduction, glossary, and explanatory footnotes by Gordon Campbell are quite good. Begin with either \\"Volpone\\" or \\"The Alchemist\\" if you are new to Jonson. I hope you are as surprised and pleased as I was.	2002-11-12
US	49618395	R14DXKQJX0MZ7B	0415040086	593315193	Volpone: or The Fox	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Volpone - Great Introduction to Ben Jonson	I had expected Jonson's plays to be difficult and certainly less rewarding than Shakespeare.  Surprisingly, despite the passage of four centuries, the humor in \\"Volpone\\" remains natural and entertaining today. I have now read several other comedies by Ben Jonson, but \\"Volpone\\" remains my favorite.<br /><br />I did have difficulty getting started with \\"Volpone\\".  The rather long dedication, the argument, and the prologue all took their toll. To make matters worse, I was completely confused and lost in Act One, Scene One, by a \\"Pythagorean satire\\", entertainment provided by Volpone's eccentric servants, Mosca, Nano, Andrrogyno, and Castrone. (I later learned that Jonson may have added this literary satire for special performances at Oxford and Cambridge. Apparently Jonson knew his scholars well, as \\"Volpone\\" was well-received at both universities.)<br /><br />Fortunately, Scene One is not representative of the play, and I had little difficulty thereafter with either the plot or the humor. Unlike Shakespeare, Ben Jonson's characters seldom reflect on their motivations in soliloquies or insightful dialogue. We meet characters without great complexity.  Once we know them, we find that they remain in character and behave predictably. This does not mean his characters are shallow or uninteresting.  I even found myself somewhat sympathetic for the unscrupulous Volpone, Mosca, Voltore, Corbaccio, and Corvino. They are all villains, just not particularly villainous villains.<br /><br />Even though the characters behave predictably, the plot is anything but predictable. The confusion builds throughout the play and I had no idea how Jonson was going to resolve the situation in Act Five. I quite enjoyed \\"Volpone\\" and I would like to have an opportunity to see it on stage someday.<br /><br />One aspect might surprise the modern reader: Volpone's rather unusual house servants include the dwarf Nano, the eunuch Castrone, and the hermaphrodite Androgyno. These individuals, occasional targets for humor, play rather unimportant roles and are sometimes deleted from modern productions.<br /><br />Ben Jonson was a talented playwright that had the historical misfortune to be a younger contemporary of Shakespeare. He is quite familiar to literary scholars and English literature majors, but for most of us he remains in the shadow of Shakespeare.<br /><br />You can find several good editions of \\"Volpone\\", either alone or in collections.  I recommend \\"Volpone or, The Fox\\", edited by David Cook, and published by Routledge in London. It was published in 1962, but has been reprinted many times. I benefited greatly from Cook's introduction and footnotes. This softcover book is printed on high quality paper.<br /><br />Another widely available source is the inexpensive Oxford World's Classics, \\"The Alchemist and Other Plays\\" by Ben Jonson. The introduction and footnotes by Gordon Campbell are quite good.<br /><br />I am a fan of Dover Thrift Editions, but I don't recommend the Dover \\"Volpone\\" 1994 edition for a first reading of Jonson as the footnotes are sparse.	2002-11-12
US	49618395	RWSX3YX24FW05	0465072666	992120214	The Periodic Kingdom: A Journey Into The Land Of The Chemical Elements (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Novel Investigation of the Periodic Table	Through an ingenious geography analogy, P. W. Atkins offers an entertaining and insightful exploration of the periodic table. We initially observe the periodic kingdom from a great height and see the expansive metallic Western desert bounded by the Western Rectangle - a region occupied by the Alkali Metals and the Alkali Earth Metals - and the Eastern Rectangle - the realm of Carbon, Nitrogen, and Oxygen, the excitable Halogens, the Noble Gases, and other non-metallic elements (countries). To the south lies the distant, seldom visited Southern Island of the Lanthanides and Actinides.<br />Atkins divided his book, \\"The Periodic Kingdom\\", into three sections: Geography (chapters 1-3), History (chapters 4-7), and Government and Institutions (chapters 8-11).<br />The three Geography chapters include the terrain, the products of each region, and physical geography.  Physical geography is more challenging with maps of atomic masses, atomic diameters, elemental densities, and ionization energies. But don't stop.  Atkins is only illustrating that the periodic kingdom is characterized by gradual changes, not by random fluctuations at country (element) borders.  In succeeding chapters we discover that these changes exhibit a periodic pattern.<br />The four History chapters - the discovery of the periodic kingdom, the naming of the countries, the \\"geologic\\" history of this land, and the major cartographers - are fascinating and easy going for the non-chemist.<br />The final chapters on Government and Institutions offer a non-mathematical look at quantum physics that governs both the nucleus (Laws of the Interior) and the electron cloud (Laws of the Exterior).  Despite the inherent difficulty of atomic physics, this section is quite readable and will not intimidate most readers.<br />Some reviewers roundly criticized Atkins for overworking his kingdom analogy and argued that he should have transitioned earlier to standard chemistry nomenclature. I mildly agree with these sentiments, but I suspect that Atkins' primary audience, the literate layman looking for a comprehensible overview of chemistry, will find his kingdom analogy to be both entertaining and helpful.<br />P. W. Atkins has authored widely used textbooks on general chemistry and organic chemistry as well as more advanced texts on physical chemistry. For the reader enticed to explore chemistry further, I suggest reading Chapter 7, titled Atomic Structure and the Periodic Table, in Atkins' text \\"General Chemistry\\", second edition, which can be purchased used on Amazon at a greatly reduced price.<br />For all readers I highly recommend Primo Levi's \\"The Periodic Table\\", an intriguing memoir of a young Italian chemist, a Jew living in Mussolini's Italy. He titled each chapter with the name of an element that played some role in that particular chapter. Look at the reader reviews. \\"The Periodic Table\\" is an exceptional literary work.	2002-09-12
US	49618395	R2UHC7ORSKHZOZ	0805210415	393259245	The Periodic Table (Everyman's Library Contemporary Classics Series)	Books	5	101	103	N	N	Remarkable Blend of Chemistry, Mussolini's Italy, and Memoir	Primo Levi was a gifted writer that happened to practice chemistry. In these short memoirs he tells the story of a chemist, a chemist that is living in Mussolini's Italy, a chemist that is Jewish and survived Auschwitz. Levi has written of Auschwitz previously and only a single chapter in \\"The Periodic Table\\" directly discusses Auschwitz.<br />To many readers the career of a chemist might seem as exciting as the career of an accountant or a tax attorney, essential to society, but better left to someone else. It hardly seems the subject for a remarkable literary work.<br />Levi paints an intriguing portrait of a chemist, a detective unraveling the secrets of matter, a philosopher searching for meaning. We learn much about the kinds of problems that excite a chemist and how a chemist goes about searching for answers. But we learn more about Levi himself, about life in a Fascist state, and about human relationships in difficult situations.<br />Primo Levi titled each chapter with the name of an element that either plays a role in that particular chapter or exhibits characteristics that are metaphorically descriptive of human relationships portrayed in that chapter.<br />Most chapters revolve about an important biographical event. However, the first chapter, Argon, tells a rather quiet (inert) story of the unexciting Levi family history and it might be best to skip chapter one until later. Hydrogen, the second chapter, is more exciting, almost explosive. Zinc, Iron, Potassium, Nickel, and others follow.<br />Three chapters - Lead, Mercury, and Carbon - are fictional. I was absolutely fascinated by all three. Levi is a great story teller. Lead should be read by students of history and Mercury likewise. Carbon should be mandatory reading for all students of chemistry and biology, probably for all humanities majors too.<br />I have read \\"The Periodic Table\\" several times and it remains one of my favorite books. It melds sadness and humor, offers prose that is almost poetry, and uniquely blends history, chemistry, and memoir. It is widely recognized as an exceptional work of literature.	2002-09-07
US	49618395	R2HSGF3JIWVIIS	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Unquestioning Loyalty versus Personal Responsibility	In his first three novels Kazuo Ishiguro reveals his characters with care and subtlety through their recollections of events long past. These memories are often fragmented, sometimes hazy, sometimes simply untrustworthy. Some characters willingly explore old memories for answers, while others show less interest in introspection. All three stories effectively employ a first person narrative style.<br />&quot;It is possible that my memory of these events will have grown hazy with time, that things did not happen in quite the way they come back to me today.&quot; (A Pale View of Hills)<br />&quot;Did Miyake really say all this to me that afternoon? Perhaps I am getting his words confused with the sort of thing that Suichi will come out and say.&quot; (An Artist of the Floating World)<br />&quot;But I see I am becoming preoccupied with these memories and this is perhaps a bit foolish.&quot; (The Remains of the Day)<br />Ishiguro shifts the timeline back and forth as individual memories, often triggered by other memories, are recalled. These recollections yield incomplete answers, indications, and vague hints. Like Ishiguro's characters, we readers find ourselves becoming interpreters searching for answers in old memories.<br />In &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot; Ishiguro does not give us the traditional, humorous caricature of an English butler, but a convincing and disturbing portrait of a flawed individual. Stevens held himself to high standards and principles, and continually strived to exhibit those characteristics that define a great butler. And yet, throughout his years at Darlington Hall, he used his unquestioning loyaty and commitment to Lord Darlington as a shield from personal responsibility. He abdicated personal choice, avoided questioning Lord Darlington's actions, and refrained from close personal relationships. <br />We meet Stevens late in his career. Lord Darlington is no longer alive. England and her Allies have defeated Germany. Stevens still has much pride in his years of service to a great man, but unwittingly, almost unwillingly, he begins to question whether his service and devotion were misdirected, even wrong. On occasion, Stevens even finds himself unaccountably straying from the truth whenever uncomfortale questions arise concerning Lord Darlington's German sympathy during the thirties.  At the same time unsettling memories surface regarding a house keeper, a Miss Kenton, that left Darlington Hall many years ago. We recognize, but Stevens seemingly fails to do so, that Miss Kenton was offering her love.<br />Stevens, Lord Darlington, and Miss Kenton, to a lesser degree, all made mistakes that profoundly influenced thier lives and the lives of others.  Surprisingly, Ishiguro shows little interest in why his characters made mistakes in the past.  His focus is clearly on how they come to recognize past mistakes and how they react to these uncomfortable discoveries.<br />With each rereading of his novels my admiration increases for the remarkable skill and talent of Kazuo Ishiguro. He is undoubtably one of the great writers of our time. I highly recommend this extraordinary novel. I envy those that have yet to encounter &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot; for the first time.	2002-07-17
US	49618395	R35AW1PXNBTDGM	0679722661	156744649	An Artist of the Floating World	Books	5	62	64	N	N	Fascinating Japanese Parallel to &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;	I read &quot;An Artist of the Floating World&quot; twice in one week, once in fascination and once more to explore the nuances and subtleties that characterize Kazuo Ishiguro's novels. This short work, Ishiguro's second novel, was short listed for the prestigious Booker Prize. Both a character study and an intriguing glimpse of pre-war Japan, in many ways it is a Japanese parallel to Ishiguro's highly successful third novel, &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;.<br />Ishiguro enjoys slowly revealing his characters through their recollection of events long past. The memories are often fragmented, sometimes hazy, someimes simply untrustworthy. In &quot;An Artist of the Floating World&quot; the situation is further complicated by the tendency of its protagonist, Masuji Ono, to misinterpret his own memories.<br />&quot;An Artist of the Floating World&quot; is a portrait as Masuji Ono saw himself, and as he believed that others saw him. It is three years after Japan's defeat and Ono is preoccupied with the negotiations around his younger daughter's proposed marriage. Last year Noriko's marriage negotiations with another young man were unexpectedly treminated by the groom's family. Almost without self-awareness, Ono begins to question whether his artistic support of the imperialistic movement in the thirties and during the war now places his daughter's prospects in jeopardy.<br />Although Ono sees himself as a modest man, he overstates the impact that his military and patriotic art had in conditioning the Japanese people for the impending imperialistic war effort. It is never quite clear just how popular and widespread his war posters actually were. In contrast, Ono seems incapable of recognizing the magnitude of his crime against his best student, Kuroda, whom he betrayed to the authorities. He rationalizes that Kuroda's years in prison now give him credibility in the new Japan and that he will fare well in the post-war period. He is even so naive as to believe that Kurodamight be persuaded to overlook the past and thus support, or at least not hinder, his daughter Noriko's ongoing marriage negotiations.<br />I highly recommend &quot;An Artist of the Floating World&quot; for readers either new to Kazuo Ishiguro or already familiar with his other novels. It is an intricate work of beauty.	2002-07-16
US	49618395	R3DVM2MZUAVQTB	067972267X	76818172	A Pale View of Hills	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Subtle Portrait Painted by Genius. Extraordinary.	Etsuko's older daughter has recently committed suicide. Living alone in England, Etsuko recalls her encounter with an unusual woman, Sachiko, and her young daughter, Mariko, in Nagasaki a few years after Japan's defeat. Her memories of this summer long ago appeared to have little significance to the present, but gradually the story unravels into two strands, a concrete retelling of distant events and a more oblique revelation about Etusko herself. Ishiguro tantalizes the reader with hints and intimations and vague indications.<br />I realized that Ishiguro is a master of subtlety as I have read some of his other novels, but nonetheless I was unprepared for the obscure ending. What had I just learned? Was this a confused memory or had I glimpsed something macabre? Some rereading helped me resolve my confusion, but I leave the ending for your speculations.<br />In &quot;A Pale View of Hills&quot; Kazuo Ishiguro tells a story, develops convincing characters, and paints a portrait of post-war Japan. Ogata-San, Etsuko's amicable father-in-law, is publicly criticized for teaching patriotism during his long career as a school master. He quietly struggles with the seeming injustice around him. Etsuko's husband, Jiro, is a traditionalist, but has rapidly adapted to the emerging corporate Japan, and simply ignores the recent past. Etsuko's somewhat unbalanced friend, Sachiko, knows that her optimism is unrealistic and that she is jeopardizing her daughter's future, but she continues along a path almost ensured to end in disaster. As for Etsuko herself, her memories only speak obliquely to her views on the American imposition of dmocracy and women's rights.  Ishiguro does not moralize, but lets us see post-war Japan through the eyes of his complex characters.<br />Ishiguro could easily have been a writer with only one great book. This haunting story, Ishiguro's first novel, was awarded a literary prize by the Royal Society of Literature.  Ishiguro's life had some parallels with &quot;A Pale View of Hills&quot; as he himself was born in Nagasaki in 1954 and immigrated to England in 1960 and it is natural to expect that Ishiguro might have difficulty expanding beyond this &quot;autobiographical&quot; novel. And yet, his second book, &quot;An Artist of the Floating World&quot;, was short listed for the prestigious Booker Prize. His third book, the highly successful &quot;The Remains of the Day&quot;, captured the Booker Prize for its compelling portrait of an English butler.<br />Ishiguro is a remarkable writer. &quot;A Pale View of Hills&quot; is an extraordinary work of complexity, subtlety, and beauty.	2002-07-12
US	49618395	R8MVZD6RBE1T0	0226199908	557847666	Mathematics and the Unexpected	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Deceptive Simplicity and Powerful Insight	Occasionally you encounter a book about a subject that you know reasonably well, or least think you do, only to discover that you had little understanding after all. When I first read Ivar Ekeland's &quot;Mathematics and the Unexpected&quot;, I was absolutely startled. I knew some physics and math, and I had always assumed that differential equations and physics accurately described nature. Differential equations and physics seemed to go together like bread and butter. Ekeland quickly showed me that I had not really thought about the way differential equations are used in physics.<br />Ekeland has written a book about mathematics, not a mathematics book. &quot;Mathematics and the Unexpected&quot; does not require familiarity with advanced mathematics and celestial mechanics, and yet Ekeland discusses both topics. The thoughtful reader, rather than becoming confused, will come away with insight into some of the most exciting work in mathematics in the last thirty years. I suspect, however, that the reader knowledgeable of more advanced mathematics will be even more appreciative of Ekeland's achievement.<br />This is not a new book. Ekeland received the Jean Rostand Prize in 1984 for this outstanding work of scientific popularization. He discusses classical determinism, impossible calculations, deterministic but random systems, unstable but stable systems, and dissipative dynamic systems as he positions us to understand catastrophe theory.  In the 1980's catastrophe theory was more controversial as some early proponents had either applied the theory inappropriately or exaggerated its capability. Ekeland concludes with a thoughful critique of catastrophe theory.<br />I encourage anyone interested in pursuing more recent works (popular or technical) on chaos theory, fractals, or nonlinear dynamics to first read &quot;Mathematics and the Unexpected&quot;. Ivar Ekeland has produced &quot;a cultured text with the rare combination of deceptive simplicity and powerful insight&quot; that provides a solid foundation for exploring many contemporary topics in mathematics. The phrase in quotes is from the London Times. This is definitely a five-star book.	2002-05-19
US	49618395	R1LTQDAHP9F2WA	048624895X	618023694	Thirty Years that Shook Physics: The Story of Quantum Theory	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Quantum Theory Plus Gamowian Humor - A Great Combination	George Gamow's \\"Thirty Years That Shook Physics\\" is an exceptional book, an entertaining look at the physicists (including himself) that participated in the unveiling of quantum theory.<br />His book is enlivened by unique photos of the great physicists and mathematicians, their families and friends. We see Niels Bohr and his wife on a motorcycle, Wolfgang Pauli and George Gamow (in lederhosen) on a steamer on a Swiss Lake, Werner Heisenberg in swim trunks, Enrico Fermi playing tennis without a shirt, George Gamow and Leon Rosenfeld resting on a snow covered peak (supposedly discussing nuclear physics), and Niels Bohr and Albert Einstein chatting at a technical session in Brussels.<br />Many contemporary books on physics for the layman, following publisher's dictates, scrupulously avoid all mathematics. Writing in the 1960's, Gamow assumed that algebraic equations, graphs, and diagrams of experimental setups would actually help clarify explanations and not send readers fleeing in panic. Algebra is necessary; more advanced math is not. Gamow is fun to read, but be prepared to think.<br />It is amusing how many of the Amazon reviewers mention that they first encountered Gamow in their youth. I too read Gamow, reveling in the excitment of scientific work and discovery.<br />Gamow adds a bit of fun and comedy to science. We all learn (but may have forgotten) about the Pauli Exclusion Principle that only two electrons with opposite spins can occupy the same quantum orbit. Gamow also introduces us to a lessor known observation, the Pauli Effect, which states that the mere presence of Wolfgang Pauli, a theoretical physicist, near a laboratory ensured that the experimental apparatus would break.<br />Gamow concludes his history of quantum theory with a light-hearted play created by students of Niels Bohr and presented one evening during technical meetings in 1932 in Copenhagen. \\"The theme of this dramatic masterpiece has Pauli (Mephistopheles) trying to sell to the unbelieving Ehrenfest (Faust) the idea of a weightless neutrino (Gretchen).\\"<br />Gamow has remained in print since the 1960's, due largely to his unique style and for his obvious enthusiasm for physics and for people that do physics. I heartily recommend this book for the layman, and for any student of science, high school or college.<br />Recently, his popular \\"Mr. Tompkins in Wonderland\\" and \\"Mr. Tompkins Explores the Atom\\" have been released again, with some updates for recent discoveries. A typical review claims: \\"will vastly fascinate the whimsical, and is also scientific\\". Don't miss Gamow.	2002-05-18
US	49618395	R1TGFKV6HC5O04	0521457289	423772610	The Ghost in the Atom: A Discussion of the Mysteries of Quantum Physics (Canto)	Books	5	35	36	N	N	Great Introduction to a  Fundamental Philosophical Conundrum	We live in an awkward time.  Our understanding of the universe is based on two theoretical models, quantum theory at the atomic scale and relativistic theory at the astronomical scale.  Despite valiant efforts, physicists have been unable to unify these two highly successful theories.<br />Quantum theory itself is based &quot;on a profound and disturbing paradox that has led some physicists to declare that the theory is ultimately meaningless.&quot;  And yet no experiment has contradicted the predictions of quantum theory. Physicists agree that quantum theory &quot;correctly describes the world to a level of precision and detail unprecedented in science&quot;. The problem is philosophical, not technical.<br />I highly recommend &quot;The Ghost in the Atom&quot; as an excellent starting point for exploring the fascinating implications of quantum theory. P. C. W. Davies (physicist) and J. R. Brown (BBC producer) offer us an intelligent examination of the conflicting and controversial interpretations of this fundamental theory.<br />&quot;The Ghost in the Atom&quot; begins with a brief exposition (about 40 pages), titled &quot;The Strange World of the Quantum&quot;, that summarizes quantum theory and introduces the interpretation problem. A remarkable set of interviews follow:  eight noted physicists describe with enthusiasm, even passion, the bizarre implications of quantum theory as they see it.<br />Alain Aspect, a French experimental physicist, describes his 1982 experiment that challenged our view of reality by apparently confirming that non-locality is an attribute of our universe.<br />John Bell, a theoretical physicist at CERN, is known for his Bell's Theorem that provided the basis for Aspect's experiment. He discusses whether free will might be an illusion, suggests that we revisit Einstein's theory of relativity, and states that he is &quot;quite convinced that quantum theory is only a temporary expedient&quot;.<br />John Wheeler, Director of the Center forTheoretical Physics at UT Austin, largely agrees with the conventional Bohr interpretation (also called the Copenhagan interpretation) and argues the importance of the conscious observer in the quantum measurement process.<br />Rudolp Peierls, who formerly held the Wykeham Chair of Physics at Oxford, objects to the term &quot;Copenhagan interpretation&quot;, as it suggests that there is more than one acceptable interpretation. He considers other interpretations to be largely speculation.<br />David Deutsch, Research Fellow in Astrophysics at both Oxford and UT Austin, argues strongly for the many-universes interpretation.  He is a proponent for objective reality.<br />John Taylor, Professor of Mathematics at Kings College, London, argues for the ensemble interpretation (or statistical interpretation). By abandoning any attempt to describe individual systems, he contends that there is no need to associate the collapse of the wave function with the presence of a conscious observer during the measurement process.<br />The final two physicists, David Bohm and Basil Hiley, both argue that a &quot;hidden variable&quot; interpretation involving a &quot;quantum potential&quot; can accommodate Aspect's non-locality and maintain objective reality. <br />&quot;The Ghost in the Atom&quot; is quite exceptional and I easily give it five stars. The quantum theory overview alone, as others have pointed out, is worth the price of the book. The interviews are fascinating.<br />What should you read next?  I highly recommend another exceptional book published by Cambridge University Press, &quot;Quantum Physics: Illusion or Reality?&quot; by Alastair Rae. It is more difficult, but does not require mathematics.	2002-05-03
US	49618395	R2FCOXEO8FFJUG	0811209059	414314422	Seven Nights (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	35	35	N	N	Seven Remarkable Lectures Worth Seven Readings	I am fascinated by the genius of Jorge Luis Borges. \\"Seven Nights\\" is a short collection (121 pages) of seven lectures given over seven evenings in the summer of 1977 in Buenos Aires. Borges was almost fully blind and spoke informally, without notes, as was his usual style. He exercised his great memory with skill; he shifted effortlessly across literary genre, across the centuries, across languages, occasionally making unexpected connections. I almost believed that I was present at his lectures.     Each lecture can stand alone, but references to prior topics abound.    I first encountered \\"Seven Nights\\" some years ago. Having just read Dante's Inferno for the first time, I was having difficulty articulating the powerful impact that Dante's great work had made on me. In his first lecture, \\"The Divine Comedy\\", Borges provided the words.    He says, the Middle Ages \\"gave us, above all, the Divine Comedy, which we continue to read, and which continues to astonish us, which will last beyond our lives, far beyond our waking lives.\\"  He describes the joy of reading Dante's work as a narrative, ignoring - at least during the first reading - the extensively documented literary and historical criticism. \\"The Commedia is a book everyone ought to read. Not to do so is to deprive oneself of the greatest gift that literature can give us.\\"    \\"Dreams are the genus; nightmares are the species. I will speak first of dreams, and then of nightmares.\\" So begins lecture two. Borges takes us on a journey through history, literature, and poetry in search for understanding of that so common, but so unusual event, that we call dreams.    \\"A major event in the history of the West was the discovery of the East.\\" And so begins lecture three on that great work that defines the mystery that is Arabia.  \\"These tales have had a strange history. They were first told in India, then in Persia, then in Asia Minor, and finally were written down in Arabic and compiled in Cairo. They became The Book ofa Thousand and One Nights.\\"    Borges lectures travel an elliptical orbit around his topic, sometimes approaching directly, other times looking outward, away from his stated subject. In his lecture on poetry (number five) he comments on literature in general: \\"A bibliography is unimportant - after all, Shakespeare knew nothing of Shakespearean criticism. Why not study the texts directly? If you like the book, fine. If you don't, don't read it. The idea of compulsory reading is absurd. Literature is rich enough to offer you some other author worthy of your attention - or one today unworthy of your attention whom you will read tomorrow.\\"    His other lectures, \\"Buddhism\\", \\"The Kabbalah\\", and \\"Blindness\\", are equally intriguing.  In once more rereading \\"Seven Nights\\" I found myself again astounded by Borges, by his seemingly inexhaustible knowledge of literature, by his capability to forge unexpected connections, and by his provocative statements. He has obviously given considerable thought to his conclusions, although Borges is anything but dogmatic. I enjoy a quote from a concluding paragraph in NIghtmares. \\"We may draw two conclusions, at least tonight; later we can change our minds.\\"     Whether you are familiar with Borges or not, I highly recommend \\"Seven Nights\\". Borges is simply without peer, and I do not expect to change my mind later.	2002-05-03
US	49618395	R3I18CVI0GPQIM	0486261859	315762309	The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond (Dover Books on Literature and Drama)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Another Enjoyable Mystery Collection by Chesterton	G. K. Chesterton, a contemporary of Sir Conan Doyle, is known today for his delightful short stories, especially those involving Father Brown, a priest with a penchant for solving crimes.    Like myself, most readers of Father Brown stories are less aware of Chesterton's other collections of mystery tales. Following the advice of previous reviewers, I recently introduced myself to Mr. Pond and his friends, Captain Gahagan and Sir Hubert Wotton, in \\"The Paradoxes of Mr. Pond\\".    Once again Chesterton pleasantly surprised me. Mr. Pond, a quiet, mild mannered, obscure English bureaucrat relates an odd mix of adventures. All stories are initiated by some paradoxical comment that he unwittingly utters. After some confusion, Mr. Pond is persuaded to explain himself. The tales are usually a little convoluted, but in the end we have a solution that is logically possible, but not necessarily probable. (Many Sherlock Holmes cases share this characteristic.)    In \\"The Three Horsemen of the Apocalypse\\" Mr. Pond mentions that a Prussian Marshall Van Grock failed his mission \\"because the discipline was too good\\". His plan failed \\"because his soldiers obeyed him. Of course, if only one of his soldiers had obeyed him, it wouldn't have been so bad.\\" Failure couldn't be avoided \\"when two of his soldiers obeyed him\\".    Mr. Pond's statements were equally incongruous in \\"When Doctors Agree\\". \\"Funny things agreements. Fortunately people generally go on disagreeing, till they die peacefully in their beds. Men very seldom do fully and finally agree. I did know two men who came to agree so completely that one of them naturally had to murder the other.\\"    Chesterton's stories move at a more leisurely pace than many readers are now accustom, often involve improbable events and unusual characters, and occasionally digress to consider a moral issue.    If you are already an admirer of Chesterton, definitely acquire this inexpensive Dover edition. If you are new to Chesterton, consider alsoacquiring Chesterton's famed Father Brown detective stories.	2002-04-13
US	49618395	R2VS9MS2C9T02D	0811200124	359539404	Labyrinths: Selected Stories and Other Writings (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	93	107	N	N	Exceptional Literature.  A Work of Genius	I have difficulty imagining a world without the literature of Borges. It would be incomplete.  His works - so unique, so eclectic, so intellectually stimulating, and so enjoyable - seem so essential.    Jorge Luis Borges is one of the great writers of the twentieth century. His literary works include short stories, essays, and poetry, but not novels. He was never awarded the Nobel Literature Prize, a rather remarkable failure by the Nobel Committee. Borges will be read and respected long after many Nobel Prize winners of the last century have been forgotten.    \\"Labyrinths\\" is an exceptional collection, great as an introduction to Borges, but equally suitable for the reader already familiar with his works. It consists of 23 of his best known stories, ten literary essays, eight short parables, an elegy to Borges from Borges himself, and a very useful bibliography.    The detailed bibliography helps make Borges' works more accessible.  In the last fifty years Borges' works in English have been published as a confusing mix of overlapping collections, largely due to complications regarding publishing rights.    Translations also differ. The first sentence in The Form of the Sword (from Ficciones) - \\"His face was crossed with a rancorous scar: a nearly perfect ashen arc which sank into his temple on one side and his cheek on the other\\" - is recognizable, but transformed in The Shape of the Sword (from Labyrinths) - \\"A spiteful scar crossed his face: an ash-colored and nearly perfect arc creased his temple at one tip and his cheek at the other.\\"  While both translations are good, I suspect that the effort to master Spanish would be paid in full by the joy of reading Borges in his native language.    Borges is difficult to characterize, but terms like metaphysical, philosophical, erudite, literate, unexpected, mysterious, and haunting are common adjectives. Like Franz Kafka, Edgar Allen Poe, and Umberto Eco, Borges offers unique perspectives and insights that startle us with originality and genius. He creates worlds that range from plausible to implausible to simply impossible, but under the spell of his imagination we accept unreality and illusion.    The reader should peruse \\"Labyrinths\\" over time, rather than hurrying from story to story. There is no need to hurry as you undoubtedly will revisit these stories and essays.  I find I return to Borges again and again with awe and appreciation, almost as though I am discovering him for the first time. I cannot imagine a world without Borges.	2002-04-13
US	49618395	R350FLA0ZEJN0A	0192810677	969737394	Keats Poetical Works	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Limited Footnotes. Better Collections Now Available.	I have the 1970 paperback version of the Oxford University Press \\"Keats Poetical Works\\" edited by H. W. Garrod in 1956. As I began to read longer poems like Endymion, I found the small font size distracting. Also, Garrod's commentary and footnotes are rather limited. I rate this Oxford edition as only three stars as better editions are readily available.    You might consider Selected Poetry (Oxford Poetry Library, 1996 and 2000 editions) that is edited by Elizabeth Cook. To confuse matters a bit, there is now a 2001 version, also edited by Elizabeth Cook, with a different title: John Keats: The Major Works (Oxford World's Classics). These newer versions may contain more extensive commentary and footnotes than the earlier Garrod edition.    I do have recommendations for two books with which I am quite familiar.    The first is Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats, published by Modern Library Paperback Classics in 2001. It contains an excellent introduction by Edward Hirsh and good footnotes by John Pollock. Five stars.    My other recommendation is The Complete Poems, Penguin Classics, edited by John Bernard. This Penguin Classics edition has been a standard Keats text for several years. Five stars.	2002-03-23
US	49618395	R2DPZ7PYESKWDH	0195002113	268985069	An Introduction to Mathematics (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Insightful and Provocative	\\"The study of mathematics is apt to commence in disappointment.\\"    \\"One of the causes of the apparent triviality of much of elementary algebra is the preoccupation of the textbooks with the solutions of equations.\\"    In discussing Descartes' coordinate geometry, Whitehead states, \\"Philosophers, when they have possessed a thorough knowledge of mathematics, have been among those who have enriched the science with some of its best ideas. On the other hand, it must be said that, with hardly an exception, all remarks on mathematics made by those philosophers who have possessed but a slight or hasty and late-acquired knowledge of it, are entirely worthless, being either trivial or wrong.\\"    \\"Civilization advances by extending the number of important operations which we can perform without thinking about them. Operations of thought are like cavalry charges in a battle - they are strictly limited in number, they require fresh horses, and must only be made at decisive moments.\\"    \\"The really profound changes in human life have all had their ultimate origin in knowledge pursued for its own sake.\\"    Alfred North Whitehead, a remarkable British mathematician and philosopher, enlivens his look at the fundamental ideas underlying mathematics with provocative observations. Nonetheless, Whitehead does not avoid mathematics while trying to explain mathematics. While this book is clearly for the layman, it may occasionally require some effort.  An Introduction to Mathematics is delightful, insightful, and intellectually stimulating.    Whitehead argues that mathematics is an abstract science that is primarily concerned with generality, not specificity. In trying to master the techniques and mechanics of arithmetic, algebra, and geometry, many students fail to recognize the fundamental ideas. They become lost in a murky fog of details.    I found myself surprised by Whitehead's insightful explanations of familiar topics like variables, constants, and simple algebraic equations. Iknow math. But I now recognize that I had not really given sufficient thought to some very basic concepts. Just a few pages into this little book I was actually looking at some familiar concepts from a very different perspective.    Later discussions on mathematical symbolism, imaginary numbers, conic sections, trigonometry, and infinite series move more slowly and may require rereading. But the insights gained will more than offset any additional effort.    Whitehead occasionally digresses to discuss the act of mathematical creation. He agrees with the poet Shelley who compared the discovery of \\"some great truth\\" to the slow snowflake by snowflake accumulation that leads to an avalanche. While not discounting the role of genius, Whitehead sees breakthroughs in mathematical thought, often as unexpected as an avalanche, the natural result of the accumulation of knowledge through the centuries.    Whitehead's small book could serve as the basis for a short class or tutorial for high school students (or perhaps even for humanities majors with less than fond feelings for mathematics.) An Introduction to Mathematics is an effective counterbalance to standard textbooks that focus too much on technique, manipulation, and mechanics. Five stars.	2002-03-22
US	49618395	R3IO0XML75QLW0	0375756698	471213286	Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats (Modern Library Classics)	Books	5	141	144	N	N	Excellent For College Study or Independent Reading	In his short life John Keats created some of the finest poetry in the English language.  I have read his shorter poems and odes many times, not for study, but simply for enjoyment. I am not a Keats expert, but I can now easily recognize quotations from Keat's odes, sonnets, and other poems. I especially like &quot;The Eve of St. Agnes&quot;, a story of romance and danger in a medieval setting that illustrates Keats' remarkable command of language.<br />Keats is not difficult, but footnotes help with archaic words and references to more obscure Greek mythology. I prefer to read Keats unaided, then read the footnotes (best if tucked away in an appendix), and then return and read the poem again. For longer poems I jump to footnotes more quickly.<br />Initially, the inexpensive Dover edition &quot;Lyric Poems&quot;, was exactly what I needed.  Later, as I tackled longer poetry like &quot;Endymion&quot;, I migrated to more complete collections with commentary and footnotes.<br />Keats&quot; works are widely available in hardcover and paperback. Which collection is best for college study or independent reading? I have two favorites, one by Penguin Classics and the other by Modern Library. Both are available in softcovers.<br />The first is &quot;The Complete Poems&quot; by Penguin Classics, edited by John Bernard and a standard choice for college classes. I have the second edition, 1977. Barnard's extensive footnotes and commentary are quite good and offset his somewhat brief introduction. Additionally, the appendix discusses textual variations in Keats' manuscripts and has a useful guide to Greek mythology names. The third edition, 1988, adds 20 pages of selected letters, Keats' notes on Milton's Paradise Lost, and his notes on a Shakespearean actor.<br />The second choice (my favorite) is the newly published &quot;Complete Poems and Selected Letters of John Keats&quot;, Modern Library 2001 edition (not the earlier 1994 hardcover version).  Apparently as a direct  challenge to Penguin Classics, this edition offers a longer introduction (22 pages) by Edward Hirsch and excellent footnotes (not too many, nor too few) by John Pollock. Also, as the title implies, it has selected letters by Keats, some 25 pages in total. Somewhat hidden in the appendix is commentary by six well-known literary critics such as T. S. Eliot, Mathew Arnold, and Keats' biographer Walter Jackson Bate. Lastly, the font is larger and more crisp in the Modern Library version (but is still quite acceptable in the Penguin edition).<br />Overall, I prefer Hirsch to Barnard, but both are good choices. Both are 5-stars.	2002-03-17
US	49618395	R22DG481S3BK8T	0486411508	212374967	The World of Mathematics, Vol. 2 (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	31	31	N	N	Great Authors, Great Articles, Great Fun	I pencil in the date that I finish reading each article in James R. Newman's four volume, &quot;The World of Mathematics&quot;  After a good many years, I now find that I am more than halfway through Newman's remarkable collection that spans 2500 pages.<br />Newman described his work as &quot;a small library of the literature of mathematics form A'hmose the Scribe to Albert Einstein, presented with commentaries and notes&quot;.  The topics have been chosen with care.  Newman preceded each article with a thoughtful commentary.<br />The individual articles are not abridgements, but are reprinted in their entirety.  Some articles are short, some quite long, some are easy reading, some are difficult, but few are overwhelming.<br />I have not systematically read section by section.  I find that I skip around.  Often, after Newman introduces me to some mathematical topic, I find myself sidetracked, exploring other books and authors.  But eventually I return to Newman, select another article, and begin the cycle again. <br />The Newman collection was published in 1956 as a boxed set that occasionally shows up in used bookstores. More recently, the four volumes have become available in soft cover (a Dover reprint) and can be purchased individually.<br />What makes Newman collection so remarkable?  The answer is great original papers, great authors, and wide ranging topics.<br />Imagine reading Descartes on Cartesian coordinates, Whitehead on mathematical logic, Weyl on symmetry, Dedekind on irrational numbers, Russell on number theory, Heisenberg on the uncertainty principle, Turing on computer intelligence, Boole on set theory, and Eddington on group theory.<br />I enjoy the biographical and historical articles scattered throughout the four volumes.  I especially liked Bell's article &quot;Invariant Twins, Cayley and Sylvester&quot;, The Great Mathematicians&quot; by Turnball, and G. H. Hardy's &quot;A Mathematician's Apology&quot;.<br />Mathematicians try to define just what is mathematical thought and how a mathematician creates mathematics. Clifford writes about &quot;The Exactness of Mathematical Laws&quot;, Von Neumann on &quot;The Mathematician&quot;, Weyl on &quot;Mathematical Way of Thinking&quot;, Poincare on &quot;Mathematical Creation&quot;, Newman on &quot;Godel's Proof&quot;, and Russell and Whitehead separately offer their thoughts.<br />This is the &quot;World&quot; of mathematics. Newman's assemblage also includes a fascinating, eclectic mix of articles that I have not encountered elsewhere like &quot;How to Hunt a Submarine&quot;, &quot;Durer as a Mathematician&quot;, &quot;A Mathematical Approach to Ethics&quot;, &quot;Geometry in the South Pacific&quot;, and &quot;The Vice of Gambling and the Virtue of Insurance&quot;.<br />I have had great fun wandering through this four volume set from section to section, article to article. I assume that someday I will finally read the last article.  I expect that I will simply begin again. It would be hard to say good-bye to Newman's collection.	2002-03-08
US	49618395	R2VBRATVM1D532	0151003386	187303968	The Advent of  the Algorithm: The Idea that Rules the World	Books	4	24	26	N	N	Fascinating Look at a Difficult Topic -  But Eclectic	First, symbolic logic is not an easy subject and requires attention to detail. Second, Berlinski's discursive style can require the reader to be accomodating and patient. Some may abandon Berlinski in frustration. But others will discover that Berlinski has created a rather unique work.    It is easy to be disoriented by Berlinski's eclectic mix of fiction, biography, essays, and mathematics. I would hunker down for some serious math, but be sidetracked to an unfamiliar Greek fable. Just as quickly I was being introduced - with surprising clarity - to propositional calculus, truth tables, and tautologies. Another sidetrack and I was privy to the delusional thoughts of some stranger.    At this point I fortuitously observed fine print on the copyright page: \\"This is a work of scholarship. The author has woven stories, involving imagined people and incidents into the text, the better to enable the reader to enjoy the technical discussions. Or to endure them.\\" I relaxed and accepted that while my road might be a bit bumpy, I now had some understanding of Berlinski's itinerary.    I particularly valued the short biographies of the mathematicians and logicians that played key roles in developing symbolic logic and its protege, the algorithm. My attitude was more mixed regarding the playful stories (pure fiction) \\"woven\\"  into the text. Although some shed light on the technical discussions from unexpected perspectives,I found other stories to be more distracting than helpful.    Notwithstanding the occasional flights of fancy, \\"The Advent of the Algorithm\\" is indeed \\"a work of scholarship\\". Clarity characterizes most technical sections, but careful reading is still necessary. The technical sections include:     categorical syllogism (pg. 9-11) and Peano's axioms for arithmetic (pg. 32-35) - 4 stars.  propositional calculus plus truth tables (pg 50-59) - 5 stars,  predicate calculus (pg. 65-68, 71-80, 94-95) - 5 stars,  Frege's \\"Foundations of Arithmetic\\" plus Russell's paradox (pg. 91-93) - 5 stars,  \\"Principia Mathematica\\" plus Hilbert's program (pg. 96-100, 105-108, 112-114) - 5 stars,  formal arithmetic (pg. 109-111) - 4 stars,  Godel's Proof and recursion (pg. 116-129, 136-141, 143-145) - 5 stars,  the calculus of lambda conversion (pg. 162-179) - 3 stars,   Turing machine (pg. 181-192) - 4 stars,   thermodynaymics (pg. 226-234, 238-248) - 3.5 stars,   and the final three chapters (13-15) on neural networks, DNA coding, and complexity - 5 stars.    I bogged down on chapter 8, a discussion of Alonzo Church's calculus of lambda conversion. Even after some study, I was still not comfortable. I began with no knowledge of lambda calculus; I ended with only a partial understanding. Fortunately, a detailed understanding is not critical to the remaining chapters.    The final three chapters are especially interesting. Berlinski's examination of the question, \\"Why does complexity exist within a universe characterized by simple physical laws?\\", was fascinating and insightful.    Should you buy this book?  I think not, if you are looking for a typical book on mathematics for the layman.  \\"The Advent of the Algorithm \\" requires attention to detail and persistence.    However, a persistent reader, one willing to invest time and effort to gain an understanding of symbolic logic, should give Berlinski's book a try. His interests may not always coincide with yours, but the tour will be memorable. Berlinski has created a unique book about a difficult subject. Substantial sections clearly deserve five stars. I give it four stars overall.	2002-02-09
US	49618395	R2OLMKRR8I87UN	048669609X	423135741	Foundations and Fundamental Concepts of Mathematics (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	190	193	N	N	Excellent Overview.  Belongs on Your Bookshelf.	Howard Eves presents this five-star story of mathematics as two intertwined threads: one describes the growing content of mathematics and the other the changing nature of mathematics. In exploring these two elements, Eves has created a great book for the layman. I find myself returning to his book again and again.<br />My few semesters of calculus, differential equations, and other applied math failed to formally introduce me to abstract algebras, non-Euclidian geometries, projective geometry, symbolic logic, and mathematical philosophy. I generally considered algebra and geometry to be singular nouns.  Howard Eves corrected my grammar.<br />\\"Foundations and Fundamental Concepts\\" is not a traditional history of mathematics, but an investigation of the philosophical context in which new developments emerged. Eves paints a clear picture of the critical ideas and turning points in mathematics and he does so without requiring substantial mathematics by the reader.  Calculus is not required. <br />The first two chapters, titled \\"Mathematics Before Euclid\\" and \\"Euclid's Elements\\", consider the origin of mathematics and the remarkable development of the Greek axiomatic method that dominated mathematics for nearly 2000 years.  <br />In chapter three Eves introduces non-Euclidian geometry. Mathematics is transformed from an empirical method focused on describing our real, three-dimensional world to a creative endeavor that manufactures new, abstract geometries. <br />This discussion of geometries, as opposed to geometry, continues in chapter four. The key topics include Hilbert's highly influential work that placed Euclidian geometry on a firm (but more abstract) postulational basis, Poincaire's model and the consistency of Lobachevskian geometry, the principle of duality in projective geometry, and Decartes development of analytic geometry. For the non-initiated these topics may seem daunting, but Eves' approach is clear and quite fascinating. <br />Chapter five, which might have been titled \\"The Liberation of Algebra\\", may at first be a bit overwhelming to those unaware of algebraic structures like groups, rings, and fields.  But take solace as even mathematicians in the early nineteenth century still considered algera to be little more than symbolized arithmetic. As Eves says, non-Euclidian geometry released the \\"invisible shackles of Euclidian geometry\\".  Likewise, abstract algebra created a parallel revolution. (Again, don't be intimidated by the terminology.  Eves is quite good.)<br />The remaining four chapters look at the axiomatic foundation of modern mathematics, the real number system, set theory, and finally mathematical logic and philosophy.  Eves concludes with the surprising discovery of contradictions within Cantor's set theory as well as Hilbert's unsuccessful effort to define procedures to avoid inconsistencies or contradictions within an axiomatic system.<br />Eves mentions Godel's fundamental contribution to mathematical logic, but stops short of delving into Godel's Proof. For additional reading I highly recommend \\"Godel's Proof\\" by Ernest Nagel and James R. Newman.<br />I also highly recommend Richard Courant's and Herbert Robbins' classic, \\"What is Mathematics?\\", a more detailed examination of the development of fundamental ideas and methods underlying mathematics. I would suggest that most readers, particularly non-math majors, first read Eves and later tackle Courant and Robbins.<br />I have read \\"Foundations and Fundamentals of Mathematics\\" at least twice.  I gave my son a copy for Christmas. He says that the book is great and he even claims to be reading it as he walks across his campus between classes. The price is great. It belongs in your book collection.	2002-01-25
US	49618395	R3GLMJA5T2H5UE	0192821644	627120326	The Annotated Innocence of Father Brown (Oxford paperbacks)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Improbable But Logically Possible - Entertaining and Fun	The Father Brown stories are a bit fantastic and improbable, but that is true of Sherlock Holmes too.  For the reader unfamiliar with G. K. Chesterton's creation, this quiet, somewhat shy priest will be a surprise.    Sherlock Holmes and Dr. Watson are so familiar that today's readers sometimes need to remind themselves that these two friends are indeed fictional characters. For many it may be difficult to imagine, much less accept, that other private detectives were also at work unraveling crimes in the fictional realm of Sherlock Holmes.    Father Brown coexisted in London with Holmes (during Sherlock's later years), but it is not obvious that they ever collaborated. While both exhibited a unique genius, their cases and their methods were indeed different. The solutions to Father Brown's mysteries are often improbable, but logically consistent, and usually have a metaphysical or moral aspect. Father Brown is not a sheltered cleric unaware of sin and evil, but just the reverse.  He is able to place himself in the mind of the perpetrator, thereby seeing solutions that the reader fails to notice. Like Holmes, he is often more interested in understanding  and solving a mystery, rather than meting out human justice.    Matin Gardner's extended footnotes clarify references that otherwise might be obscure today such as Edwardian manners, outdated technology, London landmarks, literary references, etc. The footnotes are not essential, but I found Gardner's annotation useful and entertaining.    The five Father Brown collections (53 stories in all) begin with these 12 stories,\\"The Innocence of Father Brown\\". Father Brown won't displace Sherlock Holmes, but you will not regret getting to know Holmes's clever contemporary.	2001-12-24
US	49618395	RFYOZVFG5R6V2	0814703259	379374272	Godel's Proof	Books	5	183	188	N	N	An Abstruse Mathematical Proof Made Fascinating	This is a remarkable book. It examines in considerable detail Godel's proof, a mathematical demonstration noted for its difficulty in its novel logical arguments.  The chapter topics - the systematic codification of formal logic, an example of a successful absolute proof of consistency, the arithmetization of meta-mathematics - appear almost unapproachable. And yet, Ernest Nagel and James R. Newman have created a delightful exposition of Godel's proof.  I actually read this book in one sitting that took me late into the night.  I simply didn't want to stop; it is really a good little book.<br />Godel's proof is not easy to follow, nor easy to grasp the full implications of its conclusions.  Many mathematical texts, overviews, and historical summaries avoid directly discussing Godel's proof as these quotes indicate: &quot;Godel's proof is even more abstruse than the beliefs it calls into question.&quot; &quot;The details of Godel's proofs in his epoch-making paper are too difficult to follow without considerable mathematical training. &quot;These theorems of Godel are too difficult to consider in their technical details here.&quot; Such is the common reference to Kurt Godel's milestone work in logic and mathematics.<br />In their short book (118 pages) Nagel and Newman present the basic structure of Godel's proof and the core of his conclusions in a way that is intelligible to the persistent layman. This is not an easy book, but it is not overly difficult either. It does require concentration and a willingness to reread some sections, especially the second half.<br />&quot;Godel's Proof&quot; begins with an explanation of the consistency problem: how can we be assured that an axiomatic system is both complete and consistent? The next chapter reviews relevant mathematical topics, modern formal logic, and places Godel's work in a meaningful historical context. Following chapters explain Hilbert's approach to the consistency problem - the formalization of a deductive system, the meaning of model-based consistency versus absolute consistency, and gives an example of a successful absolute proof of consistency. <br />The plot now begins to twist and turn. We learn about the Richardian Paradox, an unusual mapping that proves to be logically flawed, but nonetheless provided Godel with a key to mapping meta-mathematics to an axiomatic deductive system. (I forgot to explain meta-mathematics; you will need to read the story.) And then we learn about Godel numbering, a mind boggling way to transform mathematical statements into arithmetic quantities. This novel approach leads to conclusions that shake the foundations of axiomatic logic!<br />The authors carefully explore and explain Godel's conclusions. For the first time I began to comprehend Godel's fundamental contribution to mathematics and logic. I am almost ready to turn to Godel's original work (in translation), his 1931 paper titled &quot;On Formally Undecidable Propositions of Principia Mathematica and Related Systems&quot;. But first, I want to read this little book, this little gem, a few more times.	2001-12-24
US	49618395	R3VC8Z86893SWY	8420633127	317955619	Ficciones (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Ficciones - Unique, Remarkable and Exciting.	Imagine removing a blindfold. You are in some American city, but which one?  For many cities the street layouts, the buildings, the commercial enterprises are so similar that few clues would be available.  But New York, Boston, and San Francisco would be immediately recognizable.     In much the same way the works of Jorge Luis Borges, Umberto Eco, Franz Kafka, and Edgar Allen Poe stand apart from other great writers.  They each offer a uniquely fascinating perspective, an unusual style combined with a remarkable command of language.    I first encountered Ficciones quite a few years ago. I was not familiar with Jorge Luis Borges and was not prepared for this remarkable discovery. I still have that book, a little paperback priced at $2.45.  I return to it again and again, always to find myself surprised by Borges. (I now have all of Borges works that have been translated to English.)    Borges assumes that his reader is literate. He makes allusions to a wide range of works, occasionally mentioning entirely mythical books that somehow should exist. His volcabulary is immense, but his writing is clear, entertaining, and unpredictable. It is said that Borges has seemingly read everything - and not in translation, but in the original Latin, German, French, English, and Spanish. To better appreciate Dante, he taught himself 13th century Italian.    The poetry, essays, and short stories of Borges are already recognized as classic works of the 20th century. Ficciones, a collection of short stories from 1941-1944, is a particularly good introduction. Take a look at some other reader reviews, but not too many. Borges is best as a surprise, like a fine wine that is unexpectedly encountered.	2001-12-22
US	49618395	R7AJJ718L4BY0	0553270818	375835577	Shakespeare Alive!: America's Foremost Theater Producer Brings Shakespeare's England to Life	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Valuable Companion to Shakespeare - Engaging Style	&quot;Shakespeare Alive!&quot; is an intriguing and enjoyable visit to Shakespeare's London. Joseph Papp, founder and producer of the prestigious New York Shakespeare Festival, and Elizabeth Kirkland, a Rhodes Scholar at Oxford, created not a scholarly tome, but a delightful and often humorous examination of Elizabethan culture and its impact on Shakespeare.<br />Other reviewers exclaim how their high school students related to &quot;Shakespeare Alive!'. I only wish I had encountered this little book during my school years. Hat's off to Papp and Kirkland for an excellent introduction to Shakespeare's England.<br />A prologue casts the reader into 16th century England as a young lad wrestling with a decision to leave his familiar rural setting in search of better opportunities. Daily rural life is a struggle, food is scare, a recession makes things worse, and you have little hope. London is far away and frightening, but you have no other choice. You begin your long trek on foot.<br />It is an uncertain world. England is in change, emerging from an inward looking isolation, to one in which the world's boundaries seem to expand with the return of each ship from the New World. The Renaissance moved from Italy to England at an almost imperceptible pace, but it did arrive, and nothing remains the same.<br />&quot;Shakespeare Alive!&quot; explores how the English theater emerged within this cauldron of change. In 1576 James Burbage builds the first structure dedicated to housing plays and calls it the &quot;Theater&quot;, the first time this word was used to denote a building. Within just a few years Burbage has competition - the Curtain, the Swan, the Rose, the Fortune, and Shakespeare's Globe - and all were presenting daily comedies, tragedies, histories, and romances.<br />In an engaging, amusing style Papp and Kirkland provide a broad understanding of Shakespeare's world, his language, his sources, his creativity. I thoroughly enjoyed (and found most useful) their sections on Shakespeare's vocabulary, his creative use of rhetoric, and his near obsession with puns. &quot;Shakespeare Alive!&quot; is a uniquely fascinating book.tions on Shakespeare's vocabulary, his creative use of rhetoric, and his near obsession with puns. &quot;Shakespeare Alive!&quot; is a uniquely fascinating book.	2000-11-06
US	49618395	R19FJRY28N5VBC	0553213032	43217624	Richard II (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Richard II	Richard II was incompetent, wastefully extravagant, overtaxed his nobles and peasants, ignored his senior advisors, and lavished dukedoms on his favorites. His rival, Henry of Bolingbroke (later Henry IV), was popular with the common man and undeservingly suffered banishment and loss of all his property.  And yet two centuries later Elizabethans viewed the overthrow of Richard II as fundamentally wrong and ultimately responsible for 100 years of crisis and civil war. Queen Elizabeth's government even censored Shakespeare's play. <br />Shakespeare masterfully manipulates our feelings and attitude toward Richard II and Bolingbroke.  We initially watch Richard II try to reconcile differences between two apparently loyal subjects each challenging the other's loyalty to the king. He seemingly reluctantly approves a trial by combat. But a month later, only minutes before combat begins, he banishes both form England.  We begin to question Richard's motivation.<br />Richard's subsequent behavior, especially his illegal seizure of Bolingbroke's land and title, persuades us that his overthrow is justified. But as King Richard's position declines, a more kingly, more contemplative ruler emerges. He faces overthrow and eventual death with dignity and courage. Meanwhile we see Bolingbroke, now Henry IV, beset with unease, uncertainty, and eventually guilt for his action.<br />Shakespeare also leaves us in in a state of uncertainty. What is the role of a subject? What are the limits of passive obedience? How do we reconcile the overthrow of an incompetent ruler with the divine right of kings? Will Henry IV, his children, or England itself suffer retribution?<br />Richard II has elements of a tragedy, but is fundamentally a historical play. I was late coming to Shakespeare's English histories and despite my familiarity with many of his works I found myself somewhat disoriented.  I did not appreciate the complex relationships between the aristocratic families, nor what had happenedbefore. Fortunately I was rescued by Peter Saccio, the author of &quot;Shakespeare's English Kings&quot;. Saccio's delightful book explores how Shakespeare's imagination and actual history are intertwined. <br />I hope you enjoy Richard II as much as I have. It is the gateway to Henry IV (Parts 1 and 2) and Henry V, all exceptional plays.	2000-11-04
US	49618395	R2L6AYGOD24IE8	0486411079	397972214	Bulfinch's Greek and Roman Mythology: The Age of Fable (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	58	58	N	N	Makes the Obscure Become Meaningful - and Fun to Read	&quot;The Age of Fable&quot; is an enjoyable, easy to read introduction to Greek and Roman mythology.<br />Today we lament that people have little time for the classics and even less for mythology. Bulfinch, writing in 1855, said much the same, &quot;To devote study to a species of learning which relates wholly to false marvels and obsolete faiths, is not to be expected of a general reader in a practical age like this.&quot;<br />And yet without some familiarity with Greek and Roman mythology we not only have little understanding of Greek and Roman civilization, we also limit our appreciation for some of the greatest English literature and poetry. Shakespeare, Keats, Milton, and other English writers have assumed that readers are acquainted with mythology. And more basic, we also deprive ourselves of some fascinating  and enjoyable stories and tales.<br />In writing &quot;The Age of Fable&quot; Bulfinch focused on &quot;mythology as connected with literature&quot;, not just the fables themselves. He created a book that has remained easy to read and as well serves as an amazingly useful reference when reading 16th, 17th, and 18th century literature and poetry. I have repeatedly found that what was an obscure and murky reference to mythology took on meaning and significance by a quick visit to Bulfinch. I particularly appreciate his index of names: it really helps me track down those prolific deities.<br />I sometimes pick up &quot;The Age of Fable&quot; and simply browse a few pages, exploring a new tale, a new adventure by powerful deities with magnified human frailties.  Buy a copy, you won't be disappointed.	2000-11-02
US	49618395	R2ACW3PY8YEIAE	0192832794	93745773	Selected Poetry (The World's Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Collection, Extensive Annotation in Appendix	The World's Classics \\"Selected Poetry\\" by John Milton is virtually a complete collection of his English poetry. The price is low, the font size is quite adequate, and best of all it offers extensive annotation, a real asset to most readers.    The annotation is located in an appendix rather than as footnotes on each page. I first read a page of poetry unaided, moved to the appendix to browse the appropriate \\"footnotes\\", and then returned to the page of poetry.  This may sound awkward, but it worked well.    Unlike many collections, this edition contained all of Milton's English sonnets, several which I had not encountered before. The lengthy \\"Paradise Lost\\" is moderately abridged and a new reader might find this a good way to become acquainted with Milton's epic poem. But a better approach is to read the unabridged Norton edition of \\"Paradise Lost\\".  Look at the various reader reviews and decide for yourself.    I particularly enjoyed Samson Agonistes, a rather long, but not difficult poem. I suggest first reading the Biblical story of Samson in Judges, Chapters 13-16, to better appreciate Milton's development of this classic story. The suffering of the blind Samson in captivity is poignant, particularly as Milton himself was blind and aging when he created this remarkable poetic story.	2000-11-02
US	49618395	R1K0WS1I7ZKAW7	048627554X	935832487	Selected Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Great Price, Good Selection, But Sparse Footnotes	Excluding the lengthy epic poems Paradise Lost and Paradise Regained, this Dover Thrift edition provides nearly all of John Milton's poetry that you are likely to encounter, including the 45-page dramatic poem Samson Agonistes.<br />I recommend this Dover edition, but with some reservation.  The price is low, the print is large and easy to read, but the footnotes are sparse. I relied on both a good dictionary for help with archaic words and on Thomas Bulfinch's &quot;The Age of Fable&quot; for aid in unraveling obscure poetic references to Greek and Roman mythology.<br />If you don't have some familiarity with Shakespeare or other 17th century poets or writers, you might consider an edition with more complete annotation.  I suggest either the Oxford World's Classics &quot;Selected Poetry&quot; by John Milton (more extensive footnotes, but somewhat inaccessible in an appendix) or the Everyman edition, &quot;Complete English Poems, Of Education and Aeropagitica&quot; (footnotes at the page bottom, but the print throughout is a bit small.)	2000-10-24
US	49618395	R34W2H35BK006W	0671722638	53462480	Henry IV Part 1	Books	5	53	56	N	N	Henry IV, Part 1 - A Struggle for a Kingdom	The lengthy title for the 1598 printing was &quot;The History of Henrie the Fourth, With the Battell at Shrewsburie, between the King and Lord Henry Percy, surnamed Henrie Hotspur of the North, with the humorous conceits of Sir John Falstaffe&quot;.<br />Surprisingly, Hal, Prince of Wales, (later Henry V) was not even mentioned in this verbose title although many would consider him to be the central character.  This play is clearly the dramatization of a struggle for a kingdom, but it is equally the story of Hal's wild and reckless youthful adventures with Falstaff and other disreputable companions.<br />Shakespeare did not write his plays about English kings in chronological order, but these plays do have a historical unity. It is helpful (but not essential) to read the tetralogy Richard II, Henry IV Part 1 and 2, and Henry V in chronological order.  Whatever route you take, I highly recommend buying a companion copy of Peter Saccio's &quot;Shakespeare's English Kings&quot;, an engaging look at how Shakespeare revised history to achieve dramatic effect.<br />A wide selection of Henry IV editions are available, including older editions in used bookstores. I am familiar with a few and have personal favorites:<br />The New Folger Library Shakespeare is my first choice among the inexpensive editions of Henry IV. &quot;New&quot; replaces the prior version in use for 35 years. It uses &quot;facing page&quot; format with scene summaries, explanations for rare and archaic words and expressions, and Elizabethan drawings located on the left page; the Henry IV text is on the right. I particularly liked the section on &quot;Reading Shakespeare's Language in Henry IV&quot; and Alexander Legget's literary analysis (save this until you have read the play). The fascinating article &quot;Historical Background: Sir John Falstaff and Sir John Oldcastle&quot; adds a religious dimension to the play that I had not previously noted.<br />The Bedford Shakespeare Series provides an excellent study text (edited by Barbara Hodgdon) titled &quot;The First Part of King Henry the Fourth&quot;. It is a little more expensive, is about 400 pages, and provides a broad range of source and context documentation. It would be excellent for an upper level course in Shakespeare. The context documentation is fascinating and informative; it ranges from the Holinshed Chronicles to Elizabethan writing on Civic Order to detailed cultural studies of London's diverse populous. Other chapters address the OldCastle controversy and the &quot;Education of a Prince&quot;.<br />I also like the Norton Critical edition (edited by James Sanderson), &quot;Henry the Fourth, Part 1&quot;, particularly for its extensive collection of literary criticism.  The essays are divided into two parts: 1) the theme, characters, structure, and style of the play and 2) a wide variety of interpretation directed toward that roguish character, Sir John Falstaff.nt study text (edited by Barbara Hodgdon) titled &quot;The First Part of King Henry the Fourth&quot;. It is a little more expensive, is about 400 pages, and provides a broad range of source and context documentation. It would be excellent for an upper level course in Shakespeare. The context documentation is fascinating and informative; it ranges from the Holinshed Chronicles to Elizabethan writing on Civic Order to detailed cultural studies of London's diverse populous. Other chapters address the OldCastle controversy and the &quot;Education of a Prince&quot;.<br />I also like the Norton Critical edition (edited by James Sanderson), &quot;Henry the Fourth, Part 1&quot;, particularly for its extensive collection of literary criticism.  The essays are divided into two parts: 1) the theme, characters, structure, and style of the play and 2) a wide variety of interpretation directed toward that roguish character, Sir John Falstaff.	2000-10-16
US	49618395	R1ELIR7Q0HN1JQ	0195123190	761719129	Shakespeare's English Kings: History, Chronicle, and Drama	Books	5	43	44	N	N	Great Companion to Shakespeare's English Historical Plays	Shakespeare, more than any professional historian, is responsible for the way we think about the English Plantagenet kings.  As Peter Saccio argues, &quot;It is he who has etched upon the common memory the graceful fecklessness of Richard II, the exuberant heroism of Henry V, the dazzling villainy of Richard III.&quot;<br />We recognize that Shakespeare created plays for entertainment, not tutorials for history lessons. But somehow Shakespeare's English kings seem so authentic, so much more real than the kings of history texts. And recent historical research and reinterpretation now indicates that Shakespeare's characterizations indeed appear more accurate than we had previously realized.  Saccio states, &quot;Shakespeare knew how his late medieval characters looked at things.&quot;<br />Dr. Saccio (Dartmouth College) has created a delightful book that explores how Shakespeare's imagination and actual history are tightly intertwined. He examines history as understood at the time of Shakespeare, as we understand English history today, and how Shakespeare knowingly revised history for dramatic impact.<br />Saccio's style is very engaging. This book is not only a guide to more fully appreciating Shakespeare's plays, but it is also an enjoyable look at English history. I highly recommend this book for all readers - those new to Shakespeare's histories and those quite familiar with Shakespeare's English kings.<br />I previously reviewed Desmond Seward's &quot;The Hundred Years War, the English in France, 1337-1453&quot; and suggested that it would serve as a useful background for understanding Henry V. I still recommend reading Seward's book and I still believe that a four star rating is appropriate.  I only wish now that I could give Saccio's &quot;Shakespeare's English Kings&quot; more than five stars. I cannot recommend it too highly.	2000-10-14
US	49618395	R19J6VY0EQ9NTE	0674630769	458377299	The Odes of John Keats (Belknap Press)	Books	5	39	39	N	N	Insightful, Intriguing, Thought-Provoking Analysis	Helen Vendler has created a scholarly, insightful look at the odes of John Keats.  The odes comprise about a dozen pages; Vendler's analysis is nearly 300 pages. She analyzes in thoughtful detail six classic odes of Keats, not in isolation, but by emphasizing their complex interrelationships. She argues that each poem reflects the odes preceding it and shaped the subsequent odes.  As she states, \\"For the poet, the completion of one poem is the stimulus for the next; this is particularly true for poems of the same genre.\\"    Not surprisingly, Vendler assumes that the reader is reasonably familiar with Keats' better known poetry (Hyperion, Endymion, and, of course, the Odes).  As Spenser, Milton, and Wordsworth significantly influenced Keats, some familiarity with these poets is helpful. I found that Vendler requires attention and thought, but in return she provides insightful commentary that leads to a deeper appreciation of Keats' poetic genius.    On occasion Vendler's style becomes unnecessarily convoluted. But these instances are rare lapses; her writing is characterized by a clarity that is often absent in modern criticism.    She scrupulously credits ideas originating with others, explicitly identifies points of disagreement and differences in interpretation and in the process introduces the reader to a wide range of Keatsian studies. I gained a greater appreciation for modern literary criticism.  I even enjoyed reading Vendler's detailed footnotes.	2000-10-07
US	49618395	R16T7L8X0VAJ1V	9997658418	159142587	Treasury of John Keats/Audio Cassette/Sac 8027	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Exceptional Reading of Keats Poetry	I highly recommend this audio tape, Treasury of John Keats, read by Robert Spaeight and Robert Edison. The audio readings are quite exceptional.<br />Although I have read a wide range of poetry for some years, I am rather new to listening to poetry on audio tapes. As I much prefer to read rather than listen to tapes, I only by chance bought this tape of selected poems by Keats.<br />I was rather familiar with the better known poems of Keats and thought that I had a resonable appreciation of his poetry. But these superb readings by Spaeight and Edison added an entirely new demension to my understanding and enjoyment. On longer road trips I find that I cycle through the tapes two or three times, much as I repeatedly replay favorite music.<br />The readings include The Eve of St. Agnes, La Belle Dame San Merci, On First Looking into Chapman's Homer, To Sleep, &quot;When I have fears that I may cease to be&quot;, the short song &quot;I had a Dove&quot;, and the classic Keatsian Odes - Nightingale, Autumn, Melancoly, Grecian Urn, and Psyche.	2000-10-02
US	49618395	R7EN4M7WHK2TG	0140283617	520659636	The Hundred Years War: The English in France 1337-1453	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Insightful, Detailed Historical Account	The Hundred Years War was a long, brutal, complicated conflict (1337-1453) between English and French nobility for the control of France. England had been conquered in 1066 by invaders from Normandy and for several centuries was ruled by a French-speaking aristocracy. Slowly native English language regained its supremacy (absorbing many French words in the process) and by the 1300's England and France no longer shared a common language. However, through complex intermarriages, English royalty could muster claims for France. As Shakespeare's Henry V proclaims before invading France, \\"No king of England if no king of France.\\" <br />My interest in reading Desmond Seward's book was kindled by both a recent reading of Henry V and viewing Kenneth Branagh's film adaptation of Shakespeare's Henry V.<br />Seward's recounting of the Hundred Years War is quite readable, but at times rather detailed, especially the first chapter. But the prize is worth it. Seward paints a vivid painting of of medieval diplomacy and politics as well as providing detailed descriptions of medieval warfare (not very chivalrous as little distinction was made between combatants and noncombatants).<br />Seward's portrayal of Henry V is particularly fascinating. I found myself returning to Shakespeare's rendering of Henry V and the battle of Agincourt and seeing more clearly the contradictory nature of this heroic English king.<br />The major battles during this extended conflict are remembered as remarkable English victories. Seward reminds us that these heroic events were absolute disasters from the French perspective. The English were not benevolent rulers. Much of subsequent history can be understood from what occurred during the Hundred Years War.<br />Several months after reviewing Desmond Seward's book, I encountered \\"Shakespeare's English Kings\\" by Peter Saccio and I now suggest that most readers would benefit by first reading Saccio's book before undertaking the more detailed analysis of the Hundred Years War by Seward. I have maintained my four star ranking of Seward's history.	2000-10-01
US	49618395	R1O4TTJ9UUSTMT	0486268713	448489873	Lyric Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Good Introduction to the Shorter Poetry of Keats	The poetry of John Keats is a remarkable discovery for the reader unfamiliar with his works. His poetry is timeless. I have read this small Dover edition innumerable times and with each reading I gain further pleasure from his works. I find it almost inconceivable that Keats only lived 25 years. His early death, due in part to an extended hiking tour, is almost without parallel. It is as though Shakespeare had died after producing only a few plays.<br />The Dover edition, priced only at a dollar, represents much of Keats' better known, shorter poems. They are arranged chronologically (the best are not at the beginning) and illustrate his growth as a poet. If you are new to Keats, I suggest that you skip around, maybe focusing on the shorter poems in the beginning. But don't wait too long to delve into the longer The Eve of St. Agnes.  And sample the Odes of Keats, possibly his best lyric poetry.<br />I found it helpful to make a few notes in the margin for unfamiliar words and expressions, particularly archaic terms. My notes assisted me considerably in second and third readings. <br />I knew of John Keats, but had not read his poetry. But some time ago I happened to read Perinne's Sound and Sense, an excellent guide to reading poetry, and developed some interest in Keats. You might find this text a useful reference.<br />I also recommend an audio tape (ISBN 0-8045-0868-2), Treasury of John Keats, read by Robert Spaeight and Robert Edison.  The readings are quite exceptional.  I especially enjoyed The Eve of St. Agnes.	2000-09-29
US	49618395	R3BGBDHEP003JN	0521426154	147231792	King Henry V (Cambridge School Shakespeare)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	Henry V - An Intriguing, Contradictory Heroic King	Henry V remains today as the most heroic of English Kings.  The battle of  Agincourt in English legend engenders patriotic emotions the way that we  Americans reflect upom Washington and his army at Valley Forge.  Superb  leadership overcomes great adversity.<br />While many scholars have not judged  Henry V as one of Shakespeare's more successful plays, I found  Shakespeare's portrayal of Henry V fascinating and intriguing, a  complicated and contradictory character. With each rereading of Henry V, I  value it more.<br />Was he indeed &quot;the mirror of Christendom and the  glory of his country&quot; or a cruel, calculating king willing to risk the  lives of his devoted followers? On one level Shakespeare portrays the  former (particularly in the voice of the Chorus), but on another level he  leaves me puzzled, unsure of Henry's motives.<br />In the first act we see two  bishops manipulate Henry V for their purposes, but on closer reading we  wonder whether Henry is actually manipulating the bishops to gain  justification for war against France.  Shakespeare's genius allows us to  interpret events in a multitiude of ways, and we find ourselves rereading  Henry V again and again to rethink our previous conclusions.<br />If you are  new to Henry V, I highly recommend reading the Cambridge School Shakespeare  edition. I particularly like its use of the &quot;facing page&quot; format  with the Shakespeare on the right page and context information,  explanations, and analysis on the left.  It's a little more expensive, but  you will find the slight increase in cost quite worthwhile.	2000-09-16
US	49618395	R2PPF19D6ADECB	0140440224	935878950	The Canterbury Tales: In Modern English (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	416	426	N	N	Canterbury Tales - Which Version is Best For You?	Over some period I have read several translations of Chaucer's Canterbury Tales. My first experience, selections in a high school text, was not promising. (Perhaps, I was not yet ready for Chaucer.) Translating poetry from one language to another is difficult and often unsuccessful. Translating Chaucer from Middle English is not much easier. English has changed dramatically in the last 600 years, to the point that Middle English is nearly indecipherable. For example, we read Chaucer's description of the Knight's appearance:     Of fustian he wered a gipoun (Of coarse cloth he wore a doublet)  Al bismotered with his habergeoun (All rust-spotted by his coat-of-mail)    A glossary, diligence, and time are required for reading the original Chaucer. If you choose to do so, the Riverside Chaucer edition (edited by L. Benson) and the Norton Critical Edition (edited by Olson and Kolve) are highly recommended. The Signet Classic paperback edited by D. R. Howard modernizes the spelling a bit, but largely adheres to the original Chaucer and is an easier introduction to Middle English.    Although in most cases the instructor assigns a particular version of Canterbury Tales, it can be exceedingly helpful to pick-up an additional version or two. A slightly different translation may entirely surprise you, even resonate with you, making Chaucer much more enjoyable. I suggest that you look for these versions:    Selected  Canterbury Tales, Dover Thrift edition - provides a poetic, rather than  literal interpretation, and is quite readable.  The collection of tales is  fairly small, however.    Canterbury Tales, Penguin edition, translated by  Nevill Coghill, is an excellent poetic translation. It is a complete collection, arranged by Group A thru H, and also includes The Parson's Prologue, The Parson's Tale in synopsis, and Chaucer's Retractions. Coghill's translation remains my favorite.    The Canterbury Tales, Bantam Classic paperback edited by Hieatt, uses  the \\"facing page\\" format with the original Chaucer on the left and a modern literal translation on the right page. I found the literal  translation a little wooden, but this edition can be quite helpful if you need some help with Middle English. (A guide to phonetics, grammar,  spellings, and a glossary is provided.)    Chaucer's Canterbury Tales (Barrons Educational Series) uses an \\"Interlinear Translation\\"  format in which each line of Middle English is followed by a modern translation (literal to make the comparison easier). I rather like this  approach.    Canterbury Tales, John Murray Publishers, London is hard to find, but provides a partial translation to modern English, maintaining as much as possible of the Middle English.  This rather clever approach is somewhat risky, but the translator H. L. Hitchins pulls it off. With some effort I could follow the text without continually referring to a glossary and in a limited way I was \\"reading Middle English\\".    Canterbury  Tales, Pocket Books, prose translation by R. M. Lumiansky, is easy to read,  but while this prose format adheres to the storyline, it is only a shadow of the poetic Chaucer.  It might prove useful if you are not comfortable with poetry.    Good luck. Reading Chaucer is really worth the extra effort.	2000-07-15
US	49618395	RW2H8IVVJU3CJ	0963023802	656189426	The Real Guide to Grad School: What You Better Know Before You Choose Humanities & Social Sciences	Books	5	25	26	N	N	Essential Reading - Great Buy - Insightful and Instructive	Researching graduate schools is like doing graduate research - the obstacles filter out all but the persevering. I can't imagine a better starting point for your research than &quot;A Real Guide to Grad  School&quot;.<br />How does one specialize in the humanities and social  sciences? Are there job opportunities after completing a doctorate in  anthropological studies, in medieval Italian history, in German literary  studies? Is there any common currency (like mathematics in the sciences)  that can provide some degree of career flexibility? Or once a specialist,  always a specialist?<br />The high school student is overwhelmed by shelf  after shelf of college guidebooks and school rankings.  But comparatively  little can be found on graduate schools.  Graduate school evaluation is  more complex, rankings change with the gain or loss of professors, and as  publishers recognize, the market is smaller. We are quite lucky that such a  guidebook even exists.<br />&quot;Real Guide&quot; is prefaced (some 50 pages)  with a pragmatic look at what life as a grad student entails, a historical  perspective of the &quot;rise of the research scholar&quot;, and overviews  of the admission process and financial issues.<br />The bulk of this book is  comprised of 23 chapters (12 to 20 pages each) with a similar format - an  examination of how a discipline evolved, informed speculation what will  happen next, and an analysis of job trends.<br />Each chapter begins by  introducing a somewhat representative graduate student or two - I found  them a bit intimidating in their maturity, experience, and expectations.  Following these profiles is a historical summary of the &quot;intellectual  and methodological&quot; development of the discipline.  This may sound  dry, but it was helpful in understanding differences in emphasis and  approach by various universities. For example, we learn that the  quantitative approach to historical studies shifted prestige away from Ivy  League departments to the large state schools. And Portuguese may be  resurgent because some of the best theoretical language research is coming  out of Brazil.  Also, boning up on differential equations is the best  preparation for graduate economic studies. <br />Each section ends with a look  at the current academic and nonacademic job prospects of recent Ph.D's. An  appendix even lists by name all graduating Ph.D's, their school, their  discipline, and where they were hired.  This book is really two books in  one - a guide to grad schools and a guide to an eventual job position. I  highly recommend this book and give it five stars. It is without peers.	2000-07-03
US	49618395	R2KK8L3TE8XAMV	0155826085	795447702	Sound and Sense: An Introduction to Poetry	Books	5	30	31	N	N	Ninth Edition Available, Titled Perrine's Sound and Sense	This textbook stematically explores poetic form and structure. This approach could have been quite limiting, but Perrine manages to analyze poetry without undermining his central message: poetry is to be  enjoyed.    I highly recommend this book to both readers new to poetry and those that already have considerable familiarity with the major poets.    A ninth edition is available, but with a title change. Sound and Sense is now Perrine's Sound and Sense.  Look for more reviews under this new title (ISBN 0155030280).	2000-06-25
US	49618395	R1Z6M6WQJY3KID	0691024170	348587138	QED: The Strange Theory of Light and Matter	Books	5	180	181	N	N	Enigma - QED and Feynman are Outside Normal Experience	Enigma - this term best describes QED, the notoriously non-intuitive basis of fundamental physics. But 'enigma&quot; equally applies to this book, QED.  Why is it so popular?  Four lectures  on quantum electrodynamics?   Why would anyone, other than a physicist, rave about such a book?<br />Feynman  cautions the audience that they may not understand what he will be saying.   Not because of technical difficulty, but because they may be unable to  believe it, unable to accept what he is saying. &quot;The theory of quantum  electrodynamics describes Nature as absurd from the point of view of common  sense. And it fully agrees with experiment.  So I hope you can accept  Nature as She is - absurd.&quot;<br />I long had this problem. I wanted to  understand why, in addition to how nature works.  I wanted some  philosophical understanding, some underlying meaning.  I have come to  accept that the fundamental laws (rules, behavior, whatever) of physics are  not intuitive, but are incomprehensible in terms of common sense.<br />To  appreciate Feynman's QED lectures, you must have patience, some commitment  (its not really difficult), but more than anything else you need a  willingness to set aside disbelief and simply listen to a physicist talk  about quantum electrodynamics.  A willingness to accept that nature refuses  to be understood.  Analyzed, dissected, mathematically described (in a  probabilistic sense), but not fundamentally understood. QED.<br />I am largely  unsatisfied by books for laymen on quantum physics, string theory,  cosmology, and the like. My background includes some physics and I find  that a bit of mathematics is more helpful than a great many analogies, no  matter how cleverly constructed. QED should have been disappointing.  But I  gave it five stars.<br />Feynman did not rely on analogies.  He talks physics  and experiments. Feynman had a wonderful clarity of thought, an ability to  explain advanced physics, and all with a sense of humor.  No mathsymbols,  no complex numbers, no matrices, no wave mechanics, no advanced probability  analysis - just simple addition of little arrows that shrink and  turn.<br />Feynman was unpredictable. He saw the world in unexpected ways. In  a footnote he mentions that Heisenberg's uncertainty principle is really no  longer a necessary construct. &quot;If you can get rid of all the  old-fashioned ideas and instead use the ideas that I am explaining in these  lectures - adding arrows for all the ways an event can happen - there is no  need for an uncertainty principle.&quot;  Heisenberg relegated to a  footnote!<br />The casual reader may find some short sections a bit strenuous,  particularly some of the more involved manipulations of arrows, but stay  with it.  As Feynman points out in the preface, these lectures represent  physics accurately without distortions for simplicity. Nothing would need  to be unlearned if you later majored in physics.  Think about it. QED may  lead you down a path heretofore not taken.	2000-06-24
US	49618395	R1Q3XLWJ1RCRTP	0521318971	597742188	Metric Spaces: Iteration and Application	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Great Introduction to Metric Spaces.  Lively, Informal Style	This short book is a gem. Metric Spaces by Victor Bryant is an enjoyable introduction to analysis. I liked the author's informal conversational approach to this rather abstract topic. Nonetheless, I did find it necessary to reread some sections for full understanding.     Bryant motivates the reader immediately with a look at iterative techniques, fixed point functions, converging sequences, and approximation solutions - all in an engaging style.  Later topics included distance concepts, function spaces, and the relationship between closed sets, complete sets, and compact sets. The fourth chapter was devoted to the contraction mapping principle and its use in solving differential equations.    Is this book for you?  The author says: \\"The only prerequisite is to have done a course on elementary analysis: it is not a prerequisite to have understood it nor to have remembered it at all.\\" I had never taken any formal courses in analysis, and the highly structured axiomatic approach of analysis texts had never appealed to me.  I only had a vague idea as to the properties of a metric space. But I was lured into buying Bryant's short text by the previous Amazon reviewers.  And thankfully so.    Bryant certainly enjoys his subject, but he just as clearly recognizes that not everyone might have such an abiding interest.  Throughout the text, he points out opportunities where the reader might skip forward if the going has become less interesting. (For the record I refused to be enticed by these short cuts.)    Problems are embedded in the text, one or two at a time, and are used to reinforce points under discussion.  Most have clear hints and I found many problems straightforward, but others were more difficult. A few problems were identified as appropriate for the \\"keen\\" student.  The most abstract mathematics are reserved for the last (optional) chapter, but the author does encourage the reader to stay with it: \\"It would be a pity to stop ...\\" Chapter five recasts the firstfour chapters into a more generalized form of real analysis and addresses the question: \\"What makes analysis work?\\"     Bryant had an unusual goal for a mathematics text.  \\"I have tried to provide a readable and natural introduction to an abstract subject in a down-to-earth manner.\\" Also, he says, \\"My aim is to provide a book which can be read and enjoyed ...\\" He succeeded in doing just that.	2000-06-17
US	49618395	R11CHX2CCI4FQ4	0393962938	432838089	Paradise Lost (Norton Critical Editions)	Books	5	290	299	N	N	Greatest Epic Poem in English, Norton Edition is Outstanding	Paradise Lost was not part of my core curriculum in science and mathematics.  I was of course aware that scholars considered it a great work, a classic. But it seemed a bit daunting - long, difficult, dated, and  possibly no longer relevant.<br />A few years ago I made two fortunate  decisions.  I elected to read Milton's Paradise Lost and I bought the  Norton Critical Edition (edited by Scott Elledge).  I read and reread  Paradise Lost over a period of three months as well as the 300 pages of the  Norton critical commentary.  I was stunned by the beauty and power of  Milton.  Why had I waited so long to even approach such a literary  masterpiece?<br />Make no mistake.  I had been right in several ways.   Paradise Lost is difficult, it is long, and full appreciation requires an  understanding of the historical and religious context. But Paradise Lost is  a remarkable achievement.  It explores questions regarding man and God that  are as relevant today as in the 17th century.  And the genius of Milton has  never been surpassed.<br />I found the Norton footnotes extremely helpful -  definitions for rare or archaic words and expressions, explanations of the  historical context, and links to the critical commentary section.  The  footnotes are at the page bottom, making them readily accessible.<br />The  Norton biographical, historical, and literary commentaries were fascinating  in their own right. I may well as spent as many hours reading commentary as  with Paradise Lost itself.<br />John Milton led a remarkable life.  His  enthusiastic euology on Shakespeare was included in the second folio  edition of Shakespeare in 1632.  This was Milton's first public appearance  as an author!  While traveling as a young man he &quot;found and  visited&quot; the great Galileo, old and blind, a house prisoner of the  Inquisition for his astronomical heresy.  Years later Milton, a close  supporter of Cromwell, barely escaped the scaffold at the Restoration and  was at risk for someperiod afterwards. Many considered Milton no more than  an outcast, now old and blind himself, a republican and regicide who had  escaped death by too much clemency. Within a few years this aging blind  outcast created one of the masterpieces of the English language. <br />Milton  broke all English tradition by writing Paradise Lost in blank verse.  Homer  in Greek and Vergil in Latin had used blank verse, but English demanded  rhyme.  Although others failed to imitate Milton's blank verse (I suspect  that none wanted to be compared directly with genius), the praise was  without exception. Dryden, a master of rhyme, is attributed with saying,  &quot;This man cuts us all out, and the ancients too&quot;.<br />Milton's  characterization of Satan, Adam, Eve, the archangels Raphael, Michael, and  Gabriel, and even God himself are masterful.  The debates and arguments  that evolve around free will, obedience, forbidden knowledge, love, evil,  and guilt are timeless. And fascinating.  And thought provoking.<br />Paradise  Lost will require commitment and patience and thought.  The commitment in  time is substantial.  (I enjoy Samuel Johnson's subtle comment: &quot;None  ever wished it longer than it is.&quot;) But the return is a personal  experience with great literature, one of the masterpieces of the English  language.  I consider myself fortunate to have made such an investment.	2000-06-11
US	49618395	R25I2VY97UYS9M	1574880543	534682906	Vessel of Sadness (Brassey's Commemorative Series, Wwii)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	Authentic and Poetic - A Remarkable Story	I no longer remember where I stumbled across Vessel of Sadness.  I recall that I was totally unfamiliar with this book and its author. I was puzzled by the  title. But my attention was captured by the literary reviews on the  back cover.<br />&quot;How have you said so much and involved me so deeply  with so few words?&quot;  Gunnar Myrdahl, Nobel laureate.<br />&quot;One of  the most sensitive and moving books of the war, both authentic and  poetic&quot;  A.L. Rowse, Elizabethan historian and Shakespearean  scholar.<br />This is a fictional account of the protracted and bloody Allied  invasion of Anzio in 1944.  The story is told through shifting points of  view - an Italian child, a British general, a camp commandant, and Allied  and German soldiers.  This mosaic is slow to unfold, but a tragic,  unrelenting story emerges.  Overall the book is subdued and somewhat  detached.  But its impact is staggering.<br />This short book is quite  remarkable.  It has a haunting aspect to it, but it is not a blatant  antiwar account.  As others have noted, possibly the best comparisons are  with The Red Badge of Courage and All Quiet on the Western Front.  In a  poetic style William Woodruff conveys a frightening sense of realism.  High  level strategic decisions move down through the chain of command and are  translated into battle.  Confusion, fear, and pain are pervasive.  The  focus is on survival.<br />The author participated in the initial invasion  landing at Anzio on January 23, 1944 with the First British Infantry and  fought for the next four months on the beachhead, trapped by German forces  on the high ground.  Woodruff tells the story of war with an emotional  impact that ensures that this literary work will become a classic.  I  highly recommend Vessel of Sadness.	2000-06-10
US	49618395	R2802IHXWQYCDD	0471080799	434181212	Statistics and Data Analysis in Geology	Books	5	23	24	N	N	Excellent Discussion of Multivariate Statistics	This textbook is a pleasant surprise. It is an excellent introduction to multivariate analysis, much better than I have encountered elsewhere.  As the title indicates, the examples are geological such as analysis of  spatial distribution of geological features, geochemical analysis, sediment  transportation problems, paleontological sampling issues, stratigraphic  sequence comparisons, fluvial pattern analysis, etc.<br />Davis provides a  chapter on matrix algebra, emphasizing the mathematical operations that  underlie trend surface analysis, principal components, and discriminant  functions. I found his geometric approach to eigenvalues and eigenvectors  to be more intuitive than traditional algebraic approaches found in most  linear algebra texts.  I also like the discussion on determinants.  I  suspect that a reader unfamiliar with matrices and linear algebra might  find this introduction to be too concise and a bit overwhelming.  But as a  review, the chapter was really quite good.<br />More than 350 pages are  devoted to the final three chapters - Analysis of Sequence Maps, Map  Analysis, and Analysis of Multivariate Data.  These three chapters provide  an exceptional discussion of advanced statistical techniques. The  mathematics are well explained and the techniques are described in detail,  including pitfalls in the mis-application of the various statistical  methods.<br />My copy (14th printing, first edition) includes a section on  Fortran IV programming and scatters some Fortran examples across various  chapters.  While this feature somewhat dates the text, it is at most a  distraction and can easily be skipped without any loss of understanding of  the statistical methods.  The Fortran sections may not have been retained  in the second edition (1986). This newer edition apparently provides  updated coverage on probability, non-parametric statistics, and Fourier  analysis and adds coverage of kriging methods.<br />In recent years more books  on geostatistics have appeared and some are quite good.  However, I have  noted that the Davis text is invariably included on a short reading list  for graduate geostatistics courses. My only concern is that this text has  become increasingly difficult to locate.  I give it five stars.	2000-06-09
US	49618395	R1UV4P0YBH4NN5	0155030280	628782422	Perrine's Sound and Sense: An Introduction to Poetry (9th Edition)	Books	5	61	64	N	N	A Superb Introduction to Poetry and Poetic Form	I came across an early edition of Sound and Sense a few years ago.  At first glance the slighty yellowed text appeared foreboding with chapters like denotation and connotation, imagery, figurative lanaguage, allusion,  tone, rhythm and meter, sound and meaning, and so forth.  I found it hard  to imagine a less lifeless approach to poetry.  However, the text did seem  to contain a sizeable anthology as an appendix and poetry was abundant in  every chapter.  I reasoned that I could skip the poetic structure  discussions and simply read the poetry.<br /><br />But from the beginning I found Perrine's style and approach to be stimulating, rather than analytical.  Throughout we are immersed in poetry, great poetry, familiar poetry,  unfamiliar poetry. Perrine argues that poetry needs to be read and reread  carefully for full understanding and appreciation. We need to learn to  think about poetry with some seriousness, but not in a cold, calculating  manner. We approach new poetry with our eyes and ears open, our senses  alive.<br /><br />Yes, as other reviewers point out, Sound and Sense is structured  and does methodically explore poetic forms in some detail. But this is not  a drawback. It is actually an aid to understanding. Perrine manages to achieve his instructional objective without diluting his central message: poetry is to be enjoyed.  He never forgets that his subject is poetry, and not poetic form and structure.<br /><br />I have since learned that Perrine's text is still in use today, nearly fifty years after publication of the first edition. (See recent 10th edition 0155073966, June 8, 2000.) How can that be?  Few textbooks achieve ten printings, much less ten editions.  Even the title change signifies respect; it is no  longer simply Sound and Sense, it is \\"Perrine's Sound and Sense\\".<br /><br />I highly recommend Perine's text to anyone willing to invest a little time and study to poetry.  The return will be worthwhile. I give Sound and Sense  five stars.	2000-06-09
US	49618395	R2X3VXB456PG6J	0395883261	465463318	Broadsides from the Other Orders: A Book of Bugs	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A Great Appreciation for Life in its Many Forms	As a young boy I was an avid collector of insects. No specialty - six legs were the only requirement. By about age ten I had exhausted the children's section of the central library and was given the rare honor to check out books from the adult section. Thick books with small print and detailed drawings of insects in their varied life stages. After recently reading Sue Hubbell's book, I wondered why I had wandered away from my early passion.<br />She describes chapter by chapter the fascinating life that we call bugs. Hubbell begins with Order Lepidoptera, the butterflies, among the more acceptable insects. Other chapters explore midges and gnats, ladybugs, daddy longlegs, black flies, bravo (killer) bees, water striders, silverfish, dragonflies and damselflies, gypsy moths, syrphid flies, and camel crickets. The detailed ink drawings scattered throughout the text are quite good.<br />Reading Broadsides is great fun. Hubbell is intelligent and has a great appreciation for life in its many forms. She introduces us to entomologists (a fascinating life form in themselves) and we share their enthusiasm for their particular study. We take part in a butterfly census in the Rockies, search for ladybug aggregations in the Sierra foothills, track katydids in the Midwest with sophisticated audio electronics, and closely observe an aging daddy longlegs. We discover how University of Kansas acquired a remarkable collection of water striders from a private collector. We learn that classifying insects is not a simple matter; insect evolution has been amazingly complicated, leading to unending debate regarding proper taxonomy. Obviously biodiversity is out of control. <br />More importantly, Hubbell helps us see the world through the eyes (sometimes many eyes) of individual insect species. I was fascinated by the complex and exhausting mating dance of silverfish. She may have even created a new genre: insect eroticism. (I look at silverfish differently today - but I still chase them away from my books.) Somehow Hubbell even manages to present biting black flies with some sympathy and understanding. Her personal observations - as when stooping over small puddles in early spring to admire the graceful performance of water striders - reveal a world that so often we ignore in our hurry and concern with bigger things.<br />This is a relaxing book to read. Each chapter largely stands alone and could be read in any sequence, but nonetheless the chapters combine to tell a fascinating story. I highly recommend Broadsides.	2000-06-08
US	49618395	R10E7VJ0KRBZBC	0486650774	885671432	An Introduction to Matrices, Sets and Groups for Science Students (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Thorough, Well-Written Introduction to Matrices	I highly recommend this Dover text as either a self-tutorial or as a quick review of matrices.  I initially thought that a text for the &quot;non-mathematics science student&quot; might prove too elementary to  be useful. It actually provides a thorough, concise (but not terse)  introduction to matrices that is quite appropriate for undergraduate  students in physics or chemistry. The sections on eigenvalues and  eigenvectors, on diagonalization of matrices, and on functions of matrices  were particularly good.<br />I am reasonably familiar with linear algebra and  matrices and read this book partially for review, but more out of general  interest. I was surprised at how effectively Stephenson managed in only 150  pages to explore key topics at some depth without sacrificing his tutorial  style.  I am puzzled that that this book is not better known.  It is quite  well-written and I give it five stars. The price is quite affordable and I  don't believe that you will find a better overview of matrices at even much  higher prices.<br />Don't be concerned that this is not a new book (first  published in 1965).  The matrix notation is modern and consistent with  current textbooks. The author, G. Stephenson, was Emeritus Reader of  Mathematics, Imperial College of Science and Technology, University of  London.<br />I also recommend two other Dover reprints. Matrices and  Transformations by Anthony Pettofrezzo is a more basic introduction.  An  Introduction to Linear Algebra and Tensors by M. A. Akivis and V. V.  Goldberg is a good next step after Stephenson's text.	2000-05-27
US	49618395	R1KHBOPQ0UUUMZ	0486638340	564103086	Electromagnetic Fields and Waves (Dover Books on Physics)	Books	4	27	29	N	N	Well-Paced, Careful Presentation, Moderate Difficulty	This text sits midway in difficulty between a first year physics treatment of E&amp;M and more advanced texts like Lorrain and Carson's Electromagnetic Fields and Waves and Jackson's Classical Electrodynamics.  Dr. Rojansky argues that most students require a patient, careful  discussion of fundamentals before undertaking advanced studies. His book  moves at a leisurely pace, sytematically laying down a solid foundation.  However, unlike many first year physics texts, he assumes that the reader  is familiar with integration methods and partial differentiation. He does  devote a few chapters to reviewing fundamentals that will be useful later -  curves and surfaces, solid angles, Taylor's Theorem in three dimensions,  vector fields, cylindrical and spherical coordinates.<br />Somewhat early  Rojansky introduces a simple physical model, a copper block with a  cylindrical hole, and then frequently revisits this model to address  increasingly complex problems.  It proves to be an effective way to link  more advanced sections to earlier lessons.<br />During new derivations,  references are often made to earlier derivations and results (by equation  and section number). I had to stop, thumb back to earlier sections to find  a result, and then move back to the derivation at hand.  Rojansky's text is  not unique in this respect, but at times I did find it annoying.<br />Rojansky assumes that the reader works most exercises (or at least  thinks seriously about them) and should you fail to do so, you could find  yourself returning to earlier sections for review.  The problems are not  overly difficult and useful hints are provided.  Answers are not provided  and it may be helpful to refer to a general problem set (like  Schaum's).<br />Rojansky limits his text to electrostatic fields and  magnetically induced electric fields, to isotropic media, and to  macroscopic phenomena.  Nevertheless, despite the leisurely approach and  avoidance of electrodynamics, this book is not an entirely easy read.  Maxwell's equations do emerge and more difficult chapters address topics  like integrating delta functions, solving Laplace's equations, and  investigating plane electromagnetic waves, antenna radiation, and wave  guides.  As with most Dover reprints, this book is a good buy. I give it a  solid four stars.an entirely easy read.   Maxwell's equations do emerge and more difficult chapters address topics  like integrating delta functions, solving Laplace's equations, and  investigating plane electromagnetic waves, antenna radiation, and wave  guides.  As with most Dover reprints, this book is a good buy. I give it a  solid four stars.	2000-05-27
US	49618395	R3A1Z1F9LLG5E8	0871561867	177437636	A Sierra Club Naturalist's Guide to the Deserts of the Southwest	Books	5	28	28	N	N	The Southwest Deserts Come Alive	We camped for a week in the Davis Mountains in west Texas in a section of the Chihuahuan desert last summer.  This was not our first desert experience - we have hiked and camped across much of the Southwest over the  last twenty years or so. This was an unplanned trip as we were headed  toward southern Colorado, but we became fascinated by the Chihuahuan desert  and somehow we never drove any further.<br />We were similarly quite lucky to  find a copy of the first edition of Peggy Larson's Sierra Guidebook in a  bookstore in Alpine, Texas.  She presents the deserts of the American  southwest (and northern Mexico) in a literate and educated fashion.  She  manages to discuss individual plants and animals in some detail while  painting a large scale, beautiful portrait of the four major deserts of  North America. Detailed ink drawings - landscape, geology, plants, and  animals - are scattered throughout the narrative and add considerable  value. She knows her subject and shares her knowledge in an intriguing  fashion.  She effectively uses scientific names of desert plants and  animals interchangeably with common (but less unique) names without  intimidating the reader. This is not a novel and it is quite possible to  skip to selected chapters of personal interest, but I highly recommend  exploring all chapters, all topics.  Peggy Larson's style is   really quite  good. <br />If you are already familiar with the American deserts, you will  find &quot;The Deserts of the Southwest&quot; a rewarding visit with an old  friend.  If you are somewhat new to the deserts and possibly have only  sampled the deserts from a highway perspective, I suspect that after  reading Peggy Larson's book you will likely change your travel plans to  include a personal visit to an American desert.	2000-05-12
US	49618395	RXK7KEAS5INL3	007060228X	272648427	Schaum's Outlines Vector Analysis (And An Introduction to Tensor Analysis)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Excellent Problem Set to Reinforce Standard Textbooks	I have generally found the Schaum's Outline Series quite helpful as a supplement to standard math and physics textbooks. The Vector Analysis problem review set was particularly useful. Only rarely did I encounter a  problem in which the solution was not clearly laid out.  More complex  problems often referenced earlier problems, allowing me to review simpler  problems if necessary. The chapters on Curvilinear Coordinates and Tensor  Analysis are a bonus and serve as useful references for more advanced  studies.  Given the relatively low cost of this problem set, I recommend  buying the Vector Analysis problem set.	2000-05-07
US	49618395	R2BTNTFIEZ4R9P	0226890481	434152550	Geometrical Vectors (Chicago Lectures in Physics)	Books	5	28	30	N	N	A Short, Fascinating Book.   Buy  This One.	I hardly need to add another Highly Recommended to the list of reviews.  However, Professor Weinreich has assembled from his lectures an exceptionally interesting and intriguing geometrical approach to vectors.  Not the conventional directed line segment approach, but one which  questions which geometrical relationships are topologically invariant and  which are not. This is not a difficult book, but I suspect that the more  familiar the reader is with vector concepts, the more surprised and  appreciative he will be.	1999-11-28
US	49618395	R22157HBSTSLZ0	0412427508	851279778	Vector Analysis and Cartesian Tensors 3rd Edition	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Component Analysis Approach, Good Book	I recommend Bourne and Kendall's text for anyone that is somewhat familiar with vector concepts and wants to delve a bit more deeply in vector analysis. The authors use a component analysis approach and even introduce  tensor notation early. Emphasis is placed on transforms between cartesian,  cylindrical, and spherical coordinates. Occasional reference is made to  technical applications, but this book focuses on the mathematics, not the  technical applications. However, a short chapter looks at potential field  applications.  My review is based on an early edition; more recent versions  contain a chapter on Cartesian tensors.<br />I liked the way in which the  authors introduced related topics like Jacobian transformations, scalar  invariant operators, and differential geometry topics. Although the  earliest edition is now a few decades old, the notation (del operator,  coordinate suffixes, etc.) is current.<br />For an introductory text that is  particularly suitable as a self-tutorial I highly recommend H. M. Schey's  Div, Grad, Curl and All That, 3rd edition, available in paperback.	1999-11-28
US	49618395	R1QN44S1JD3BOY	0486679101	602865620	A History of Vector Analysis: The Evolution of the Idea of a Vectorial System (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	35	35	N	N	Thoughtful, Detailed History of Vector Analysis	How were the concepts of vector analysis developed?  How did modern vector notation become widely accepted?  Who were the key players and why did quaternions fail to gain acceptance?  This book is extensively documented,  scholarly in its approach, sometimes a bit slow, but overall it is a  fascinating look at these specific questions as well as the fundamental  issue of what factors promote or delay acceptance of revolutionary ideas in  science and mathematics.    I did not become immediately engaged with  Crowe's style and even set the book aside after reading the prefaces and  first chapter.  A few months later I returned to chapter two (in part due  to a previous reviewer's high rating).  And what a surprise - I suddenly  found myself intrigued with Crowe's discussion of Sir William Hamilton's  single minded focus on quaternions, the perseverance and genius of Hermann  Grassmann, the critical roles played by Peter Tait and James Maxwell, and  the pragmatic way in which Josiah Gibbs and Oliver Heaviside independently  extracted key vectorial concepts from Hamiliton-Tait's quaternion  analysis.    Crowe's book was originally published in 1967 by University of  Notre Dame, Dover reprinted it in 1985, Crowe recieved the Jean Scott Prize  by the Maison des Sciences de l'Homme (Paris)in 1992, and Dover reprinted  it again in 1992.  Dover should be commended for making such reprints  readily available at affordable prices.    The discussion of Hamilton's  quaternions does not require familiarity with quaternions, but some prior  acquaintance might be helpful. I encountered quaternions in another Dover  reprint: Matrices and Transformations by Pettofrezzo.  Section 2-3  introduces quaternion notation, simple manipulations, and shows that  addition and multiplication of quaternions is isomorphic with two  particular sets of matrices.    Has quaternion analysis survived?  See  Quaternions and Rotation Sequences: A Primer With Applications to Orbits,  Aerospace, and Virtual Reality by Jack Kuipers.  The reviews  by readers are all five stars.	1999-11-23
US	49618395	R1O7EMBST1BBD7	0486636348	171828054	Matrices and Transformations (Dover Books on Mathematics)	Books	4	40	40	N	N	Good Introduction to Matrices.  Great Price.	This fairly short Dover re-print edition is a good self-tutorial for students new to matrices.  This book was originally published several years ago. but the mathematical notation is consistent with current texts.  The  first two chapters are moderately paced, covering such topics as real and  complex matrices, Hermitian matrices, the inverse and rank of a matrix, and  a brief introduction to systems of linear equations. The third chapter is a  bit unique in focusing on application of matrices to transformations of the  plane. I have encountered this topic in bits and pieces in various texts  and I found this overview both interesting and helpful.<br />The final  chapter, titled Eigenvalues and Eigenvectors, was a bit too concise,  touching too briefly on more complicated topics like diagonalization of  matrices, Hamilton-Cayley Theorem, and quadratic forms. I recommend working  through the fourth chapter (this is a short book) rather quickly to get a  basic understanding, but then moving to more detailed treatments of  eigenvalues and related topics elsewhwere. As a follow-up, I recommend  another Dover edition - An Introduction to Matrices, Sets, ad Groups for  Science Students.  However, this text assumes substantial familiarity with  manipulation of determinants.<br />All in all, this book is a good buy and a  good starting point for studying matrices.	1999-11-07
US	49618395	R1R330G9HL4KMU	047187373X	627247295	Quantum Physics of Atoms, Molecules, Solids, Nuclei, and Particles	Books	5	26	27	N	N	Clear Introduction to Quantum Physics	I am using Eisberg's and Resnick's text to review quantum physics.  I am particularly impressed by the author's development of plausibility arguements for the mathematics before developing the mathematics itself.  I  found the first couple of chapters a bit laborious, but the succeeding  chapters are very well-written.  I was particularly impressed by the  chapter on Schroedinger's Theory of Quantum Mechanics and the chapter on  Solutions of Time-Independent Schroedinger Equations.  I found the text  particularly useful for self-instruction and review.	1999-05-25
US	49618395	R3A7K80NEX7FWO	0673398366	715995163	Physics: Extended With Modern Physics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Good Text for Self-Study, Well-Written	I acquired this introductory physics textbook used at a bargain price. I read chapters 20-32 as a review of electromagnetics. The treatment was quite superior to the standard texts that I used some years ago. Although my experience is limited to this 1990 edition of Physics Extended with Modern Physics, I suspect that more recent texts by Wolfson and Pasachoff would also be well worth pursuing.<br />The authors do a creditable job of explaining mathematical concepts in the context of physics. The chapters are well-integrated and frequent reference is made to earlier topics. I often found myself browsing earlier chapters simply out of interest. The text follows the standard three-course physics sequence, but the authors maintain a high interest level by inserting modern topics throughout the text. I remember my first physics course as being somewhat unexciting. A student had to maintain interest in physics through outside reading.<br />I highly recommend this text and these authors. I have looked at several other recent physics textbooks since I originally penned this review and I still favorably recommend Wolfson and Pasachoff.	1999-05-02
US	49618395	RBY7EV5ULIRHH	0393969975	846848903	DIV, Grad, Curl, and All That: An Informal Text on Vector Calculus	Books	5	34	36	N	N	Clear, well-integrated introduction to vector calculus	This text provides a systematic introduction to vector calculus in a very readable, informal format. Key concepts like divergence, curl, gradient,  line integrals, surface integrals, Divergence Theorem, and Stokes Theorem  are introduced in the context of investigating solutions to electrostatics  problems without requiring the reader to be especially familiar with  physics. I particularly enjoyed the humor that is woven into the text.  (&quot;Thus, the anguish of remembering the form of curl F in Cartesian  coordinates can be replaced by the pain of remembering how to expand a  three-by-three determinant.&quot;) I would highly recommend this concise  book to students of physics, engineering, and mathematics.  It is  particularly suitable for self-instruction.	1999-04-01
