US	49616493	R1UMEXM7RORBQ1	1931561648	798265328	The Time Traveler's Wife	Books	5	1	1	N	N	amazing, delightful, poetic, and tragic.  like love, and time.	A panoramic novel encompassing the blending and diverging lifetimes of its two protagonists, \\"The Time Traveler's Wife\\" is the story of Henry, a man who does not always move normally through time, and Clare, his unafflicted wife.  The story is charming, powerful, and wonderfully complex while maintaining a vivid attention to detail.  The writing is clear and flowing, the characterization and dual viewpoints are well-executed, and the story is poignant and absorbing.  Although the story questions the boundaries humanity, the purpose of life, and the nature of time - although it provokes both fascination and tears - it cannot be possible to regret the hours spent reading this masterpiece of a novel.	2005-09-26
US	49616493	R24CRB3AA8WQHX	0373895259	601659636	A Little Change of Face (Red Dress Ink Novels)	Books	2	10	13	N	N	an unsuccessful attempt at depth	The premise of \\"A Little Change of Face\\" is that beautiful, confident Scarlett receives too much attention from men, so she alters her appearance to be less attractive.  Her goal is to find out whether men are really interested in her, or just attracted by her looks. <br /> <br />The first problem with all this is that there's no antithesis.  Nobody ever really believes - nobody ever even argues, and I can't think of any reason why they should - that men will *not* stop constantly hitting on Scarlett, and buying her drinks in bars and asking her out under no provocation, if she cuts her hair very short, wears ugly glasses, and dons long, baggy dresses to hide her gorgeous figure.  From the beginning, the novel conflates this sort of empty and surface-oriented attention with the (generally) deeper regard signified by friendship and real romantic interest.  Even Scarlett seems to have no opinon at all on the subject; she seems barely notice the attention she receives, and she has no boyfriend or close male friend at the start of the novel to give another perspective. <br /> <br />So Scarlett goes through a sort of reverse physical blossoming.  In the process she changes her name to Lettie, sabotages her career by moving to a lower-level position in a different town, and gives up her condominium to rent a less showy home.  She decides to revise not only her appearance but her entire personality, remaking herself as the self-effacing, unglamorous person she imagines a dowdy, bespectacled Lettie would be.  This explicit assumption that a less beautiful woman would be less outgoing and sociable is a circular proof of the hypothesis that as an average-looking woman Scarlett will receive less notice.  She goes through the usual contortions of trying to attract the most gorgeous and shallow of the men she meets and - in a bit of poetic justice apparently unnoticed by its recipient - manages to develop, for the first time, a personality not based on long hair and big breasts.<br /> <br />Whatever \\"A Little Change of Face\\" is supposed to be, it fails.  Its agenda - which is both overworked and unpleasant - hampers its enjoyability as fluff.  But its desire to be fluff (in accordance with its Red Dress Ink label) hinders its ability to be interesting in any other way.  This is really too bad, as the author is obviously talented.  She manages to turn a shell of a plot and a few barely-there characters into a marginally pleasant, absorbing three-hundred page book.  And she has certainly tapped into some interesting questions of style versus substance, how much of who we are is influenced by how we look, and the importance of physicality to self-concept and our interactions with friends, coworkers, and lovers.  Few novels manage to wrestle successfully with this issue, though, and most of them are much more complex than this immature anti-Cinderella tale.	2005-09-26
US	49616493	RKPPPRG5Y0JRI	0449911888	470782123	Damage	Books	4	6	7	N	N	sparse and terrifying	The narrator of \\"Damage\\" has lived a pleasant and fortunate life: a doctor and politician of considerable means, he has married and raised two children without any significant unpleasantness.  But instantly upon meeting his son's intended, Anna, he feels that she is the one thing that has been missing from his life and the only thing that can make him feel alive.  The two embark on a passionate affair even as Anna's marriage approaches.  The narrator describes, in flat and unemotional prose, his desperate need for Anna, their trysts, and the consequences.  For Anna is, by her own admission, damaged, the survivor of a tragic and disturbing childhood, and as such she is dangerous.  The starkness of the writing emphasizes the horror of the story, and although \\"Damage\\" does not have the sort of characterization or scope associated with more conventional novels, it is a powerful and frightening tale of obsession.	2005-09-18
US	49616493	RDYRTT801HTV6	0743418204	418870210	In Her Shoes: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	deep, panoramic family story	\\"In Her Shoes\\" is centered around Rose and Maggie Feller, sisters perpetually at odds with one another, each condemning the other's weaknesses and jealous of her strengths.  They share only a fondness for shoes and a troubled family history.  When Maggie loses yet another apartment and moves in with Rose, their differing natures lead to conflict that climaxes in a rift that seems permanent.  Maggie is forced to fend for herself in a world that demands more than beauty, and Rose learns to find satisfaction in more than her career. <br /> <br />Weiner has created a second masterpiece, a novel broader and more mature than her first (\\"Good in Bed\\").  The two principle characters, although starkly different, are equally well-drawn and sympathetic.  An array of memorable, unique, and thoroughly believable secondary and tertiary characters add to the novel's scope.  The story is wonderfully-plotted, moving leisurely through its phases without seeming to rush but moving with inexorable purpose; only in a lengthy and well-planned novel like this can a reader truly relax into the book, enjoying the plot's excursions in the knowledge that their purpose will eventually emerge.  In the end, everything ties together sweetly but without moralizing.	2005-09-18
US	49616493	R158MWA27K3UMG	0060008024	568824372	Angels	Books	2	2	2	N	N	a disappointing mix	\\"Angels\\" opens on its Irish heroine, Maggie, in a state of ultimate distress.  In her mid-thirties, her nine-year marriage has just collapsed and she has lost her job.  She retreats to her parents' house, where she spends a month with her implausibly quirky family before accepting her friend Emily's invitation to stay with her in Los Angeles. <br /> <br />The City of Angels amazes and befuddles Maggie througout her visit.  She marvels at the impossible beauty of the inhabitants, tries to help Emily sell her screenplay, and spends a lot of time at the beach.  She has some ill-considered sex and observes Emily's bizarre neighbors.  She also thinks about her marriage, and the flashbacks - ranging from her teenage indiscretions with a young heartbreaker to the immediate causes of her marriage's demise - become increasingly prominent. <br /> <br />\\"Angels\\" has all the material of a really good book.  Unfortunately, it has it in the wrong order.  The most powerful elements of Maggie's history - the things that make her a really interesting character - are ignored or only alluded to for the first three-fourths of the book.  Instead of exploring the (potentially very powerful and original) consequences of Maggie's decisions, Keyes devotes a lot of space to her LA antics.  These are amusing enough, but they offer little cohesion or emotional content.  The story reads in a scattered fashion (not aided by the unanchored flashbacks which occur at uneven intervals) and the important events seem to occur at random.  Additionally, because the story resists emotional investment, it also resists belief.  Readers, not understanding any of the characters (Maggie because she is kept hidden from us, the rest because little room is spared from Maggie's self-absorbed rambling for character description) will have a hard time understanding their bizarre actions; the high drama slips easily into melodramatics. <br /> <br />Still, there are reasons to read this book.  Keyes is a competent writer, and she provides a lot of good material(mostly in the first and last 70 pages).  Best of all, she has a good sense of closure; the story's end is satisfying and well-told - enough to make readers wish Keyes had taken the time and pages to tell the story properly.	2005-09-16
US	49616493	R1CRCMKUTN4MF5	0385338686	188590881	The Undomestic Goddess	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a delightful read with the promise of substance	Sophie Kinsella, author of the \\"Shopaholic\\" books, really begins to come into her own with \\"The Undomestic Goddess\\".  Her previous novels have been very similar to each other: utterly fluffy and goodhearted, carried along by Kinsella's quick-paced storytelling; wonderfully clear and dramatic and easy-to-tread writing; and endearing but ever-blundering characters.  In \\"The Undomestic Goddess\\" she retains these strengths but builds a story with a bit more heft, and the effect is outstanding. <br /> <br />Samantha Sweeting, the protagonist, is a hardworking, high-flying lawyer.  She is on the verge of making partner when she learns she has committed a costly and humiliating mistake.  In a rash (and somewhat implausible) maneuver, she flees her office and the entire city of London and ends up knocking on the door of a house in the countryside, desperate for a glass of water and directions to the nearest hotel.  The residents give her a place to sleep for the night, but in her confusion she allows them to believe she is applying to be their live-in cook and housekeeper.  Much hilary ensues in the kitchen and bathrooms of the large home Samantha is now required to tend, but eventually - with the help of a hunky gardener - she learns to enjoy her new situation.  Eventually, though, the truth of her old life will come out. <br /> <br />There's a lot in this novel that's mediocre.  The main character, despite her law degree, is often a typical tizzy chick-lit narrator.  Her love interest is unsurprisingly good-looking and bland, and the other characters are two-dimensional at best.  The plot, although it's interesting, is predictable. <br /> <br />But there is more here.  Samantha's struggles are earnestly depicted, and her trials seem real.  Reading, as in the \\"Shopaholic\\" books, about a woman who can't stop buying designer shoes even when she knows she's overdrawn on her checking account can be fun, but it's unsympathetic.  But this story is about a woman who would never be overdrawn on her checking account, who has spent her entire life working toward the promise of partnership, and who finds herself suddenly at a loss.  The story of how she figures out who she is, or at least who she isn't, feels real, and - for all their delightful frivolity - that authenticity is what's missing from Kinsella's previous books.  If she can hone this serious side while preserving her light tone and quick tempo, her next book will be a masterpiece.	2005-08-29
US	49616493	RWO8A8PROOH61	080213825X	754092812	Four Blondes	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Surprising, subtle satire	Candace Bushnell's \\"Four Blondes\\" is not what one would expect.  The cover art shows four thin, beautiful, apparently happy blondes lounging on a bright pink numeral; in combination with the author's \\"Sex and the City\\" credentials this leads readers to expect a light, upbeat read.  Those readers will be disappointed, or at least surprised.   <br /> <br />\\"Four Blondes\\" is a set of stories (named, in an overly cute conceit, after dyes and bleaching methods) exploring the lives and minds of four New York women, all of whom are beautiful, wealthy, and - yes - blonde.  These stories are not the happy, blithe quests for self-actualization or career success or a husband that generally fill the space between pink covers.  Instead, they are dark and satirical; the characters struggle with a pervasive depression nominally based on their insufficient conquests or fame or wealth but.  The characters rarely transcend their superficiality, which makes \\"Four Blondes\\" a challenging read; the protagonists are generally uninsightful and spoiled.  The value of this book is the delicate exposure of these characters' thoughts through first person narrative, diary entries, or the intimate third person, as well as Bushnell's highly readable prose which renders even drug-addled diary entries engaging. <br /> <br />The four stories vary in content and tone.  In the first, Janey, a model, lives in the summer home of a different man each season; her pursuit of a \\"good summer\\" requires finding a rich man each spring and ignoring those who encourage her to marry.  In the second story, Winnie and James struggle with their seemingly perfect marriage; their eventual detente rings with humorous insight.  The third story follows the wandering mind of Cecilia, a minor celebrity by marriage with a drug problem.  The fourth, shortest, story  describes a New Yorker's trip to London in search of a husband.  All of these stories are interesting in their own way, and their presentation - together, as a single volume, rather than each expanded to its own novel - lightens the weight of the protagonists' pretensions while illuminating how many ways there are to be successful, gorgeous, and miserable.	2005-08-26
US	49616493	RWYTD2JTEYJI7	0312857586	349351971	Shadow of the Giant (The Shadow Series)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	a good book, but only that	\\"Shadow of the Giant,\\" the fourth (and final?) installment of the Shadow series of novels parallel to the Ender series, is a good book and an acceptable conclusion of the epic tale of humanity's struggles against an alien invasion and its own self-destructive forces, but it lacks the thrilling universality and sheer power of many of the other seven books. <br /> <br />The novel continues where its predecessors left off, with the story of an Earth fragemented by religion and nationalism, clinging to the young heroes of Battle School.  Peter, the older brother of the hero Ender Wiggin, is struggling to unite all the peoples of Earth under a peaceful, humanitarian world government.  Hyrum Graff and Mazer Rackham, ostensibly concerned only with colonization and space travel, support this goal, and Bean - the brilliant but doomed young man who was once Ender's sidekick and is now Earth's most revered warrior - and his wife Petra assist in the struggle.  The book follows these characters as well as several Battle School graduates who have become world leaders. <br /> <br />\\"Shadow of the Giant\\" has much to recommend it.  It is an absorbing read, and in its power and scope it is much longer than its 370 pages.  It explores the viewpoints of many of its major characters, showing - as Card often does - how differently the same events may be perceived.  Although its message of peace and tolerance is rather belabored, the plot is strong enough to carry the point. <br /> <br />However, the book suffers from comparison to Card's other work.  It is a more exterior novel than many of the books in the series, and more political, and thus less compelling.  Many of the characters, particularly the women, are flat, and others - particularly Peter - have undergone seismic and unexplained personality shifts.  But there is nothing really wrong with \\"Shadow of the Giant,\\" and were it not part of this amazing series its lacking would be less noticeable.  Reading this book, one automatically compares it to the books in the Ender series: \\"Speaker for the Dead\\", \\"Xenophobia\\", \\"Children of the Mind,\\" and the inimitable \\"Ender's Game\\".  Those books were, every one of them, amazing and earth-shattering and life-altering, and anyone who has not read them is missing one of the greatest contributions to science fiction - to literature - of the twentieth century.  \\"Shadow of the Giant\\" merits none of that high praise.  It is just good.	2005-05-18
US	49616493	R1RM8C2CE89CJT	0812971639	619107521	The Reluctant Metrosexual: Dispatches from an Almost Hip Life	Books	4	2	3	N	N	inspiring, sardonic growing-up essays	\\"The Reluctant Metrosexual\\" is styled as an exploration of the phenomenon of the stylish, straight man; however, it is much more a story of growing up in an era when the phrase refers not to what one does before one turns eighteen, but what one does afterward.  Peter Hyman relates, in a series of essays, his adventures in dating, employment, family life, and travel since leaving law school.  His wide variety of experiences yield plentiful fodder; the essays are generally interesting and range from lighthearted anecdotes about dating to more serious explorations of career and family as they affect the young and overprivileged. <br /> <br />Although well-written (excepting a few slow patches), the book occasionally veers into self-indulgence and laziness.  Hyman's heartache over his most promising failed relationship haunts the entire book.  His metrocentrism - a total focus on the lives of yuppies-in-training, which includes those of all religions and sexual orientation but nobody living outside Manhattan - is equally pervasive and much more irritating.  However, the author's animated voice and sardonic humor overcome these failings.  \\"The Reluctant Metrosexual\\" is an easy but inspiring read.	2005-05-14
US	49616493	R2PIZNUR3M2DQB	0393058174	208305305	Sight Hound: A Novel	Books	4	8	9	N	N	A lovely, impressionistic, but unforceful book	\\"Sight Hound\\" is the story of the last years in the life of Dante, an Irish wolfhound, and Rae, his love-starved human.  Dante has spent his life teaching Rae how to live bravely, allow good things into her life, and accept pain; now, with his dying, he will teach her his final lesson.  The story is narrated in alternate vignettes by Dante, Rae, and the people and animals who share their lives: Rae's husband, housekeeper, friends, and other pets. <br /> <br />Houston's voice is evident in the style of this first novel, and her strengths - language and a sense of life's poetry - are well-displayed.  Each vignette, ranging in length from two to ten pages, is poignant and well-crafted.  But as a novel \\"Sight Hound\\" is incomplete.  The plot - Dante's illness and eventual death, and the concurrent evolution of Rae's personal relationships - is too simple and unstructured to support a full-length novel, and the incidents that embroider it seem disconnected and incidental. <br /> <br />\\"Sight Hound\\" is a quality book, worth reading for its craft as well as its message of faith and hope.  But in all this beauty there is little of suspense; it lacks the power and drive of a true novel.	2005-05-11
US	49616493	R31C7M0GEYV92H	0345322215	129280589	Wielding a Red Sword (Book Four of Incarnations of Immortality)	Books	2	5	9	N	N	substandard component of a great series	This fourth novel of the Incarnations of Immortality series addresses the Incarnation of War.  The central character is Mym, a young Indian prince whose speech defect and series of ill-fated love affairs lead him to accept the role.  Before taking office he longs to end all war, but he soon realizes that war is a necessary outcome of conflict within societies and strives to reduce the waste and injustice entailed.  However, the meddling of Satan as well as Mym's continued romantic misfortune challenge his ability to manage his duties. <br /> <br />\\"Wielding a Red Sword\\" is more character-focused than the other books in the Incarnations of Immortality series, much to its detriment.  Mym is self-centered, egotistical and seems never to learn from his mistakes.  His primary objective - despite having the opportunity to rule his nation and, later, defy Satan and improve the lot of humanity - is to find a lover who will neither be taken from him nor develop unpleasant traits such as a personality. <br /> <br />The worst aspect of this book is that it neglects the qualities that are the strengths of the other books in the series.  Anthony's delightful universe, in which science fiction and magic coexist with each other and the quasi-religious framework of the incarnations, is not exploited in the book despite numerous opportunities.  Additionally, the unifying plot of the series is only tangentially explored, leaving most of the book to rely on Mym's antics. <br /> <br />However, Anthony is a skilled storyteller, and despite the book's many flaws it is a pleasant read.  Although unremarkable on its own merits and inferior to the other books in the series, it is an acceptable component of the set.	2005-05-10
US	49616493	RXZSS2CE1YZGH	0345318854	186641235	With a Tangled Skein (Incarnations of Immortality, Book 3)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Fun but grating	The third novel in the Incarnations of Immortality series, \\"With a Tangled Skein\\" tells the story of Niobe, the incarnation of Fate.  The novel's plot weaves into the overarching story of the series as Niobe and her family become embroiled in Satan's plot to rule the world.  However, this installment has several failings.  It does not stand well on its own, lacking a well-structured climax and denoument.  The main character and the story as a whole are written with a distinct sense of condescension towards women.  And the series' general lack of weight is not alleviated in this third book.  Still, when taken as part of the creative and entertaining Incarnations series, it is an enjoyable read.	2005-05-05
US	49616493	R2GND4SZZZKX3G	0345313151	170937516	Bearing an Hourglass (Incarnations of Immortality)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A fun but uncompelling read	\\"Bearing an Hourglass\\" is the second novel in the Incarnations of Immortality series, and it is a worthwhile read primarily as a component of that series.  Taken alone, it is nominally complete but fails to resonate in any way. <br /> <br />Norton has lost his true love, and life (in a blatantly formulaic repetition of the first book's opening chapters) seems to have lost all sense of purpose or meaning.  When an opportunity arises to become the incarnation of Time, he accepts the task.  But understanding the accoutrements of his lonely office - living backwards and interacting with the world only in a stilted, episodic manner - proves challenging, and before he is fully oriented Satan, the incarnation of Evil, approaches him for a favor.  Norton finds himself drawn into a conflict between Satan, who wants to control the world by political means, and the other Incarnations.  He soon learns that Satan is not to be trusted, but his inexperience has already created problems that only he, in his office as Time, can set right. <br /> <br />Although this plot is parallel, and similar to, the plot of the first novel in the series, the writing is entertaining and the details are fresh.  But the novel is unfocused, spinning off side plots that compose much of its length but are never fully resolved.  The protagonist, Norton, is shallow and unintelligent, written sympathetically but not possessing any really interesting thoughts or traits.  Worse, his obsession with romance and casual objectification of women pervades the novel, and the author evinces no hint of irony toward this element of his character.  These deficiencies, as well as a hasty and unsatisfying ending, diminish the book's lasting effect.  However, other elements of the novel - primarily the lighthearted yet interesting magical framework in which it is set and the relationships to other books and characters in the series - make for an enjoyable read.	2005-04-26
US	49616493	R30UPPIEF4KD4F	0345338588	474733359	On a Pale Horse (Incarnations of Immortality, Bk. 1)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	An interesting standalone and great start to the series	\\"On a Pale Horse\\" is the first novel in the Incarnations of Immortality series, which describes the adventures of ordinary people cast into the personified roles of death, time, fate, nature, war, evil, and good.  The seven books of the series vary in quality, but the highly imaginitive fictional universe and the intricate twining of the story, with the complete plot of each book coalescing into a single overstory, make the series a stimulating read.  This first book is the most self-contained, however, and can be enjoyed fully without committing to the following six. <br /> <br />Zane is a desperate young man.  Lonely, poor, and distressed, he seeks refuge from his mistakes in death.  But when he tries to kill himself he ends up murdering Death instead and is forced to assume his office, collecting the souls of other mortals who die with no strong orientation to good or evil.  His office - killing people and sending them to Heaven or Hell - disturbs him at first, but he begins to realize that death is a necessary part of life and that he can ease his clients' passage.  In the course of his duties, he meets and falls in love with a young woman, Luna, who he learns is instrumental to foiling a plot masterminded by Satan (the incarnation of evil).  To save the woman he loves - and also the world as he knows it - he must harness the full power of his office. <br /> <br />\\"On a Pale Horse\\" is an absorbing novel, structured for easy reading and an engrossing plot.  It offers a slick, smart alternative reality and an interesting (quasi-religious) perspective on ideas such as good, evil, and death.  However, the book's opening chapters are far less readable and interesting than its bulk, and the shallow writing and callow protagonist are frustrating throughout.  The final chapters are exciting but uninspiring; although the author is clearly capable of writing a powerful novel he has chosen to write a fun one instead; \\"On a Pale Horse\\" is not a great book, but it is a greatread.	2005-04-26
US	49616493	R10SY4APWVSZNS	0380790920	264790956	Circuit of Heaven	Books	5	0	0	N	N	well-written exploration of immortality, humanity, and love	A novel of the semi-near future, \\"Circuit of Heaven\\" takes place in a world in which most of humanity has uploaded itself into a virtual universe called the Bin.  Inside, they are immune from death, disease, and all serious unpleasantness - it has simply been written out of the program.  Outside, their bodies are disposed of and the few remaining humans - crazies, religious fundamentalists, and conscientious objectors - struggle along in an abandoned world. <br /> <br />Nemo is one of those conscientious objectors, and the story begins when he meets Justine, a new upload to the Bin whose past is strangely fuzzy even to herself.  The two fall in love and must confront her strange history and the different levels of reality on which they live.  The story addresses deep questions about love and sacrifice and what makes us human and what makes life worth living, but the plot is so absorbing and the sci-fi elements so well-conceived that these questions, while thought-provoking, are well-insulated.  This is an enjoyable read that is not quickly forgotten.	2005-02-15
US	49616493	R1X676G9XSB93B	0767916026	474119391	The Ex Files: A Novel	Books	2	1	1	N	N	an uneven but amusing confection	Faye, a successful young model, is about to marry Mark in a beautiful destination wedding.  Two of Mark's ex-girlfriends have been invited to the wedding as his friends, so Faye has unearthed two old boyfriends to invite along, and the whole band is staying in the hotel where the ceremony will be held.  In the twenty-four hours preceeding the ceremony, Faye must deal with Mark's jealous exes, her own unpredictable friends and past liasons, and Mark's disapproving brother - who happens to know of a past indiscretion that Faye doesn't want aired. <br /> <br />This book is an amusing romp, a British piece of chick-fluff.  The cast of characters is fairly broad: Faye's mother, Mark, and a few of the other characters are well-sketched through flashbacks as well as the main action of the book.  However, the main character, Faye, is unsympathetic.  The writing is inconsistent, funny and light in places, callow and dragging in others.  The beginning in particular is difficult to read, and some of the story is implausible.  However, the book is on the whole a not-unpleasant read.	2005-01-31
US	49616493	R1YQFDDWRGU66J	0312421990	447498808	What Was She Thinking?: Notes on a Scandal: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a believable novel of obsession	Schoolteacher Barbara Covett has aged gracefully and alone in the stagnant environment of a British public high school.  Her world is a quiet one; she critically observes but does not interact with her coworkers, and goes home every night to her quiet apartment and her cat.  Sheba Hart - younger, beautiful, breezy, and posh - shakes up the entire school when she becomes the pottery teacher.  For the other teachers, she is an object of jealousy or desire.  For Barbara, she is a preoccupation.  And for one teenage boy, she is a conquest. <br /> <br />\\"What Was She Thinking?\\" is Barbara's tale of the events that unfold when Sheba enters an affair with a student.  It is the story of Sheba's inappropriate and extramarital liason, but it is also the story of Barabara's growing obsession with her friend.  It addresses the boundaries of obsession and lust, the line between the transgressive and the mundane.  The characters are vividly and believably drawn: even minor characters are interesting and dimensional, and the two principals, despite their obvious peculiarities, are familiar and sympathetic.  The author does an excellent job of bringing this story of obsession, which could easily seem bizarre, into the realm of the quotidien.	2005-01-28
US	49616493	R2ODBJ3I6B9VUW	0385335482	841557271	Confessions of a Shopaholic (Shopaholic, No 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a delightful, hilarious bit of fluff	Rebecca Bloomwood is a twenty-something living the high life in a trendy part of London.  She wears designer clothes and eats at famous restaurants, and her job writing for a financial magazine allows her to attend champagne receptions thrown by investment companies.  But she hates the job, and she has no boyfriend, and - worst of all - she's cursed with an incurable spending addiction and mountingly uncontrollable debt.  She tries everything - spending less, earning more, throwing the bills away - but her creditors are persistent and eventually she must apply a little of her professional knowledge to her own affairs.<br /><br />\\"Confessions of a Shopaholic\\" is addictive, absorbing, and amusing.  It's a fast read and, while some elements of the plot are predictable (there are some very strong parallels to Bridget Jones' Diary), others are unique and the book does not suffer from its formulaism.  The characters are amusing and well-drawn and the writing is smooth and clear.  This is a one-night read - one very pleasant night.	2005-01-22
US	49616493	R39L7SN1NEFWIC	0060565624	79661915	Ten Thousand Lovers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	a gorgeous debut	\\"Ten Thousand Lovers\\" is a haunting, lyrical love story.  In the 1970's, Lily is a Canadian linguistics student in Israel and Ami is an Israeli army interrogator.  They meet by chance and a difficult but passionate romance blossoms, in counterpoint to the violent conflict all around.  The story is narrated by a middle-aged Lily, who interweaves the tale of the past with ruminations on her present life and the etymology and meaning of the story's most important words.  \\"Ten Thousand Lovers\\" is unusual, well-written, and highly readable.	2005-01-21
US	49616493	R1XJNAQP4SJT8H	0060929952	482695367	Five Fortunes	Books	4	4	4	N	N	an easy, fun read	At a spa designed to pamper, slim, and rejuvenate wealthy and overweight or unhappy women, five clients meet and share a week of exercise and body wraps.  Over the next year, the women's lives intertwine and change dramatically. <br /> <br />\\"Five Fortunes\\" is an enjoyable and lengthy read.  It skips rapidly among the characters in short vignettes and successfully interweaves a number of plotlines; however, there are a large number of characters and occasionally they are difficult to keep track of.  The tone is lighthearted despite the often-serious subject matter, which allows the story to be entertaining even as it (peripherally) addresses such serious subjects as rape, adultery, drug use and death. The book's shortcomings - lack of deeper resonance and vague ending - are serious literary failures, but they don't stand in the way of its enjoyability.	2005-01-19
US	49616493	R37G5QC2H192ZF	0060512806	555229230	Cryptonomicon	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a big, brilliant, geeky book	Composed of three - at times four, even five - plotlines, each with its own narrator; spanning sixty years and told in two distinct time frames; exploring naval warfare, cryptology, the psychology of geeks, and Greek mythology; topping eleven hundred pages in length - this is not a novel for the faint-hearted.  It's long and impressively - even confusingly - complex, and sometimes the reading is a bit of a slog.  But the stories are intricately interwoven and surprisingly funny; the characters are unique, believable, and memorable; the digressions into science, religion, and everything else are knowledgeable and clearly presented - on the whole this is a very enjoyable read.  Totally worth the investment.	2005-01-15
US	49616493	R1XGUMIRD0JU1T	0452277337	153627	Le Divorce (William Abrahams Book)	Books	3	16	16	N	N	uneven quality but a pleasant read	\\"Le Divorce\\" is the coming-of-age tale of a young American in Paris.  Isabel, the narrator, has left her California life to live with her sister, Roxeanne, who is pregnant and whose husband has just left her for another woman.  Isabel is introduced to her sister's in-laws, a varied and entertaining clan, and she takes on a slew of odd jobs that lend glimpses of the lives of Parisians and the Americans who live among them.  She enters into a clandestine affair with a Frenchman and begins to develop her own opinions about what it means to be American or French, at home or foreign.  Meanwhile the drama of Roxeanne's imminent divorce unfolds, entwining the two families in a dispute over a newly-valuable painting.  As the plot rises, Isabel's family arrives in Paris to mediate, opposing forces clash more bluntly, and the situation becomes increasingly complicated. <br /> <br />All this complexity can be distracting; aside from the two central plots (the divorce and the affair) there are several subplots which appear at intervals and are never fully resolved.  The final chapters of the book, rather than taking on the real work of finishing the story in accordance with its themes, create an artificial crisis, inconsistent with the book's tone and style, to provide a convenient resolution.  The characters are sufficiently developed but not terribly likeable (the main character, in particular, is conceited and self-centered as well as naive).  But, despite these drawbacks, the book is an enjoyable read.  It is a pleasant mood piece, fun and frivolous.  The Parisian setting and the enthusiastically described clothes and meals add a bit of exotic flair.  At times, the story approaches the wry hilarty of an Austen-esque comedy of manners, and these are its best moments.	2005-01-13
US	49616493	R1E7NLEZVRVN2P	0449219364	205738260	G Is for Gumshoe (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	an unusually large story for Grafton, and well-executed	In this seventh installment of Kinsey Millhone's adventures as a private detective, Kinsey has much more on her plate than usual.  She is hired to locate a client's elderly mother, who has disappeared; she also discovers that someone is trying to have her killed.  The first challenge develops in unexpected ways, and the search for Kinsey's would-be killer is a well-integrated secondary plot.  The whole thing is bound up in Grafton's usual competent, easy-to-read writing.<br />The book's only shortcoming is that it could have been much more than it was.  It is essentially two stories coincident in time and both involving Kinsey; no thematic connection between them is evident.  While this does not detract from the novel's enjoyability, it leaves some doubt as to why Grafton introduced a second story element rather than elaborating a bit more on the first.	2003-12-28
US	49616493	RT58QBNYG47ET	0525945180	468646087	Le Mariage	Books	3	3	3	N	N	interesting but labored	&quot;Le Mariage&quot; is the tale of a wedding, a marriage, and an international crime.  Clara, a beauty and erstwhile actress, is not-very-happily married to Serge, a famous filmaker.  Anne-Sophie, a flea market dealer, is about to be married to Tim, an American journalist.  The two couples are brought together by Delia and Gabriel, American antiquers and millenial cultists who happen on the scene of a murder.  A large cast of minor characters - Anne-Sophie's mother, the wedding coordinator, a mayor, Serge's neighbor - tumble in and out of the story, which, at its best, is an energetic interweaving of several unusual plotlines.<br />Unfortunately, the story is not always at its best.  The narrative begins in an abrupt manner, switching points of view rapidly and not focusing on characters long enough to allow the reader to become accustomed to them in the crucial first third of the book.  The latter pages are much easier to read; however, the narration is often grating, with its heavy-handed suggestions about the American expatriate community in France and the differences between American and French culture.  The other apparent theme of the book - the discrepancy in perception and priorities between men and women - is explored with an equal lack of subtlety, and while the characters are animated and entertaining they are also rigidly stereotyped.  Finally, the book's ending is abrupt and overdramatized, closing the action without resolving any of the complications introduced in the exposition.<br />There is much that is good in &quot;Le Mariage&quot;: lively writing, well-drawn characters, intricate and offbeat plot.  It inhabits a world unfamiliar to most potential readers, and this adds to its charm.  But the story seems to escape its author, who seems capable of only the coarsest commentary on the delicate characters and situations she has created.  The story is enjoyable for much of its length, and not an unworthwhile read, but the ending is flat and disappointing, leaving readers with the promise of a great story that was never fulfilled.	2003-12-28
US	49616493	R1LWFHDKJDBWBA	0312291639	244886090	The Nanny Diaries: A Novel	Books	4	0	1	N	N	highly readable and laugh-out-loud funny	&quot;The Nanny Diaries&quot; is the novelization of two former nannies' worst experiences in the trenches of childcare-for-the-hideously-rich.  The book chronicles its protagonist's trials and tribulations during the year she works for a particularly unreasonable family: her relationship with the child's mother deteriorates as the child becomes increasingly dependent on her and his father engages in a series of affairs and prolonged absences.<br />This book is a terrific read.  It's hilarious and continuously interesting (enough so to read in one sitting).  It has moments of inconsistency, and there are a few off-color elements (some readers may be annoyed that the protagonist's name is Nanny and her employers' last name is X).  But the sheer enjoyability of the story, and its grounded take on the lifestyles of the sickeningly wealthy, more than make up for its few failings.	2003-12-14
US	49616493	R2GPH5N7RXZ2Z7	0609804138	849376137	The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love: A Fallen Southern Belle's Look at Love, Life, Men, Marriage, and Being Prepared	Books	2	5	15	N	N	cute, but childish	The Sweet Potato Queens, for anyone who hasn't yet heard of them, are a group of fading Southern belles who've annointed themselves Queens of their small circle of admirers.  In this book, their leader espouses the Queens' views on (primarily) Queendom, gender relations, and food.<br />&quot;The Sweet Potato Queens' Book of Love&quot; is entertaining and a quick read.  However, its attitude of postfeminist dominance is grating: the Queens espouse - seriously or not - the belief that they, as women, are the intellectual equal of any man, but are still entitled to the deference accorded to women by less enlightened schools of thought.  Their demands for homage grow tiresome, even from the point of view of a feminist, and by the end of the book the author's message (&quot;worship me!  worship me!&quot;) has grown stale.  This is strictly a Friday-night read, and not an excellent one at that.	2003-12-13
US	49616493	RYNPGBHYM3HO2	0345366239	16404674	The Eight	Books	5	12	16	N	N	exhilarating	&quot;The Eight&quot; is Katherine Neville's amazing first novel, the story of two women - one in the 1970's, the other in the 1790's - embarking on parallel journeys that will change the course of history.  It is nearly everything a book can be, offering adventure, drama, mystery, and romance under a single cover.  <br />&quot;The Eight&quot; is a work of philosophy and fantasy and history.  It explores the realms of chess, computers, mathematics and music and their intersections.  It moves nimbly among various eras and settings, weaving everything together in a story that is compelling and memorable.  Although the book is long, the story moves quickly and the length rarely seems onerous.  Best of all - and impressive in a book of such intensity - &quot;The Eight&quot; offers plenty of insight into its subject matter, dispensing profound or unusual thoughts at every turn.<br />It is hard to overstate the power and beauty of &quot;The Eight,&quot; how luxuriously it reads, how thoroughly it weaves its themes, how deeply it touches one's mind.  I read it once about ten years ago (as a teenager) and again just now; although the plot was familiar and I could anticipate more of its twists the second time around, it was still every inch a worthwhile and thought-provoking read.	2003-12-11
US	49616493	R3TDQP8CPTRK1U	0553284789	687799740	F Is for Fugitive (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	5	25	26	N	N	an unusual and excellent mystery	&quot;F is for Fugitive&quot; is one of the better Kinsey mysteries: engrossing from the first chapter, it reads quickly and consistently.  Although the book is 300 pages long - longer than most of Grafton's novels - there is no mid-story lull.  It bypasses much of Kinsey's usual backdrop: the action takes place in a small town ninety miles away from Santa Teresa, so Henry Pitts, Rosie, the California Fidelity crew, and Kinsey's bachelorette life in her small apartment are peripheral or entirely absent from the story.  The book focuses entirely on the mystery of an twenty-year-old murder in a small town and a cast of characters who all seem to have something to hide.  It's quintessential Sue Grafton: suspenseful and well-written, a pleasure to read from beginning to end.	2003-12-07
US	49616493	R33837TFTWGSN4	0375759174	569473707	Northanger Abbey (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	34	37	N	N	an unpolished first novel	More lighthearted and less polished than Austen's other novels, &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot; is the chronicle of its heroine's adventures in turn-of-the-nineteenth-century British genteel society.  Catherine, of marriageable age and reasonably attractive and well bred, goes on holiday to Bath, where she meets the gentlemanly Mr. Tilney and befriends the fickle Isabelle and her callow brother John.  Her adventures in Bath and, later, in the home of her new acquaintances comprise the plot of Austen's mocking tale.<br />As usual, Austen is mocking the meeting-and-mating customs of then-contemporary Britain.  But she is also mocking the gothic novels of the day: Catherine, influenced by the lowbrow literature she reads, is forever attributing dark motives to her acquaintances and skeletons to their closets.  &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot; is unusual among Austen's works in that it attacks not only the society in which its heroine operates, but the heroine herself.  Catherine is easily manipulated and slow to learn from her mistakes, and she bumbles into her eventual happy ending completely by accident, none the wiser for her troubles.  And Austen makes clear, at the book's opening, that she does not wish to attack the novelists who write the books from which Catherine derives many of her false ideas: the error is Catherine's misapplication of the stories' lessons.<br />Although it was not published until after its author's death, &quot;Northanger Abbey&quot; is clearly a first novel.  Its tone is different from the main body of Austen's work, and its quality is lower.  While a pleasant read, the book is not particularly compelling and would probably be most enjoyable for Austen aficionados seeking a comprehensive study of her work.	2003-12-07
US	49616493	RZBEJ0UKEBAPU	0316096199	784206304	Lucky	Books	3	8	10	N	N	an evocative but flat account	&quot;Lucky&quot; is Alice Sebold's memoir of her psychosexual development, centering on her rape as a college freshman.  Intelligent and keenly observed, it recounts the rape itself, the rapist's trial, and the aftermath during the remaining years of Sebold's college career; it also delves into Sebold's childhood and her adult attempts to heal.<br />There is much that is good about this book.  Like its teller, the story is smart and strong.  The voice is wry and sympathetic.  Sebold's extensive recounting of the long-term aftereffects of the rape is valuable, since all too often a victim's trauma is seen as ending after several months or a year. <br />But &quot;Lucky&quot; is not, ultimately, a really good book.  Something is missing, an emotional connection between the narrator and the reader, or the narrator and the other characters, that is not made.  The ending seems not to resonate.  Perhaps this is because, in writing her story as a memoir, Sebold has chosen a form that does not allow for evolution in the narrator or for extensive authorial knowledge of the other characters.  Ultimately, she is unable to rise out of this form: &quot;Lucky&quot; is the skilled telling of a story, nothing less and nothing more.	2003-11-28
US	49616493	R2LEHS6IAJZQ8H	0670892963	787771217	Bridget Jones : The Edge of Reason	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a worthy reprise	The irrepressible Bridget Jones continues her diary for another year with this sequel to &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary&quot;, and the hilarity of her adventures is undiminished.  Written in the highly comic trademark Bridget style, the new diary recounts Bridget's adventures in her relationship with Mark Darcy, her attempts to have her flat renovated, and her observations of her mother's shenanigans.  Although &quot;The Edge of Reason&quot; is necessarily less original than, well, the original (and is clearly not going to spawn an entire subgenre of popular literature the way &quot;Bridget Jones' Diary&quot; did) it's still an excellent read; Fielding is a better inventor of plot, and surely a better stylist, than most of her imitators.	2003-11-24
US	49616493	RON2YTW5Z43G3	0618343970	476779024	The Calligrapher: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	a passionate, delightful exploration of writing and art	The conflict between the classic and the contemporary has long raged among literati; rarely is it resolved so eloquently as in &quot;The Calligrapher&quot;, which combines the love poems of John Donne with Docx's modern characters and plot.  Jasper, a present-day British calligrapher and womanizer, is transcribing Donne's poems for a client.  His adventures with the women in his life, particularly his love affair with the beautiful and devastatingly casual Madeleine, parallel his work on the poems.  <br />Docx writes an absorbing plot, and the interplay between the narrative and the poems is well-constructed.  However, the most enjoyable component of the books is Jasper's thoughts on love, poetry, calligraphy, and contemporary society.  &quot;The Calligrapher&quot; is an intensely modern book: clearly turn-of-the-21st-century, post-9/11, post-Fight-Club.  Docx is not afraid to tie his book to a particular cultural locale (in time, place, and class), and his references work marvelously well, making the book feel sassy, immediate, and shockingly intelligent.	2003-11-20
US	49616493	R119DSTBAJ5BIT	0393323544	818480521	Pink Think: Becoming a Woman in Many Uneasy Lessons	Books	3	14	20	N	N	a collection of pink propaganda, and nothing more	Pink think, according to Lynn Peril, is the set of notions society holds and has held about the nature of womanhood and appropriate feminine roles.  Pink think originated as early as the nineteenth century but enjoyed its most powerful era in the consumerist decades of the 1950's, 1960's, and 1970's.  During those years, women were sold personal grooming products, charm courses, kitchen items, and a myriad of other goods and services that purported to make a woman more feminine or to help her attract a mate.  Peril's book is a collection of these items: descriptions, ad copy, and pictures fill its pages.<br />But &quot;Pink Think&quot; is little more than the sum of its parts.  Its historical treatment of pink think is brief, and it barely even touches on present-day pink consumerism.  The book also makes no attempt to analyze its subject matter, instead restricting itself to what amounts to a detailed list, and while the entire book is interesting, it's hard to find an impetus to continue beyond the first few chapters.	2003-11-13
US	49616493	R13A3ITQXIGQE2	0679731377	62087535	A History of the World in 10 1/2 Chapters	Books	4	0	1	N	N	an eclectic, fragmented, difficult novel - worth reading	Consisting of ten chapters related in theme but not in character, setting, or plot, this novel challenges the bounds of its genre.  Its component chapters purport to tell a brief history of human triumph and failure, love, and war; the egotistical tone and the lack of a single coherent, engrossing story make the book a challenge to read and to like.  But each chapter is its own microcosm, each telling a story of faith or doubt, love or futility, in its own time and scope, and each written in a unique style (so any reader is bound to enjoy at least part of the book).  The book as a whole is well worth the effort of reading its more tedious chapters: it is more interesting, intelligent, and inspiring than the sum of its parts, and the various stories all seem to belong together.  While this book is not an engaging read, it is an intellectual adventure.	2003-11-13
US	49616493	RBXEWN2E1UPFT	0451526821	559841412	Main Street (Signet Classics)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	classic tale of an idealist in a small town	In this classic novel, newlywed Carol Kennicott moves from a city to the small town her doctor husband calls home and must struggle to survive a social and cultural environment she finds oppressive.  College-educated and ambitious, she is frustrated with the town's lack of artistic and cultural endeavors and her attempts to raise local standards are met with disapproval.<br />&quot;Main Street&quot;'s strongest point is its humor: through dialogue and description, Lewis paints a detailed picture of Carol and her neighbors - their thoughts, plans, manipulations and foibles, particularly those they all have in common.  The book is both powerful and frustrating, since the issue it raises (how to fulfill any but the meanest aspirations in the context of the trivial daily lives most people live) is still applicable, and since the book offers little in the way of solution.	2003-11-13
US	49616493	R76DY29YY0C70	0934971609	699559723	Switch	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Powerful, lyrical, and haunting.	Carol Guess's second novel, \\"Switch\\", is the story of a small-town diner and the lives - public and secret - that intertwine within its walls.  The narration shifts among several women, but the main character is a waitress named Caddie, whose lover, Jo, has left her.  Her friends are sympathetic, but Caddie takes little comfort in their condolences because none of them know that Jo is a woman.  When the diner hires a new waitress, Caddie must confront her feelings for the new girl and accept her own sexuality.<br />\\"Switch\\" is a story of womanhood and sexuality, and learning to accept them both in yourself, whatever their form.  But it is so much deeper, more involved, and more delightful than its synopsis.  The prose is distinctive and profound; the novel's voice is so unusual and incisive you will find yourself thinking in the characters' words even after you've finished reading.  The characters are bizarre but utterly human and believable; Guess has found a way to make the impossible plausible.  The story exists in a realm of intuition where feeling is being, where reality is flexible.  It is a realm that absorbs the reader and leaves an imprint on the mind.  This is a book you will not want to reach the end of, and a read you will never forget.	2003-10-25
US	49616493	R18V1AS6O0MPJO	0375403736	564250926	Family Matters	Books	4	13	13	N	N	well-written but without much payoff	&quot;Family Matters&quot; is a story about all that goes on behind the closed doors of a family home - lust and love, anger and betrayal, sickness and death.  Set in Bombay, it centers on Nariman, a former professor grown old and sickly, and his progeny.  His stepchildren Coomy and Jal, still bitter over 30-year-old wounds, refuse to care for him when he becomes bedridden.  Instead, they send him to live with his daughter Roxana and her family in a two-room apartment.  Roxana's husband, Yezad, must somehow provide for this newly enlarged family, and her children, Murad and Jehangir, must assimilate the lessons the new situation brings into their home.<br />The Indian setting is integral to the book: the languages, the politics, the religion, and the lifestyle are all important elements of the story.  Mistry does an admirable job of making the setting appear realistic without becoming obscure and intimidating.<br />&quot;Family Matters&quot; has a number of different plots. Nariman, Jal, Coomy, Roxana, Yezad, Murad and Jehangir all undergo their own personal evolution, and the lives and stories of their friends, colleagues, and neighbors are interwoven with their own.  The plots are interspersed in an admirably smooth fashion; however, the lack of a singular driving action makes the book less than compelling.<br />After 430 pages of meandering, the book reaches an end.  It's unclear, from a narrative standpoint, why the conclusion is necessary or inevitable; some elements of the book's closing appear to be out of place or even random, and others would be greatly enhanced by further development of aspects of the book's plot.  This finale seems like a meager reward for so many pages of buildup; pleasant as the book is to read, it does not seem complete without a more significant denoument.	2003-10-17
US	49616493	R2A9ZJNVFIDF6H	0394562003	520261516	Crossing to Safety	Books	4	5	5	N	N	fractured and diffuse and quiet and lovely	Every man and woman must pause near the end of their days and contemplate what has gone before, how it was good and how it could have been better, the paths chosen and the ones passed by.  &quot;Crossing to Safety&quot; is the story of a novelist, reaching old age, doing just that.  <br />The book revolves around a friendship between two couples, enduring but often fragmented, as the vagaries of their careers and the varying fortunes of the twentieth century carry them between locales and from good fortune to bad and back.  The book addresses the entire married lives of its characters, a span of some 35 years in which they achieve varying degrees of success and failure and, ultimately, all grow old.<br />It is this 35-year span, in a book of under 300 pages, that defines the novel.  Stegner's prose is poignant and specific, and scenes are described with painstaking lushness, but in a novel of this moderate length there are not many scenes.  Most of the story is told in restrospect, and the narrator skims over years and decades the way an old man telling a story might.  The tale is not of four lives and fortunes but about the link between them, and the story dwells in the months and years when the couples' friendship is strongest.<br />One of the novel's peculiarities is the distance it holds the reader at, an analytic perspective that asks the us to think about life along with the narrator, but not to experience the emotional events of the book.  This makes the book thought-provoking but less compelling, in a visceral, page-turning sense, than it could have been.<br />And the thoughts the book provokes are not, as might be expected, about the nature and beauty of lifelong friendship.  Ultimately, each character, each person, is an entity unto himself.  In the end, everyone is isolated and everyone must decide for himself what, if anything, has made his life worth living.	2003-10-11
US	49616493	R3SL57CTP7BFTP	0553271636	594566833	D Is for Deadbeat (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	flawed but delicious	In this fourth novel, private detective Kinsey Millhone is hired for routine search-and-deliver work, but before she can begin on the case her client drowns.  She decides to look into his death, first on her own and then in the employ of the client's daughter.  She quickly discovers that the drowning may not have been accidental, and between creditors, buddies from jail, and wives, there are more than enough suspects.<br />&quot;D is for Deadbeat&quot; has more flaws than previous Kinsey installments, and sometimes the detective's motives make little sense.  But the book is pleasurable reading, and the thrill of the chase overwhelms any flaws in the plot.	2003-09-27
US	49616493	ROF0LHHXHN9Y5	0743444167	279577024	New Cardiff	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Light and cute, but hollow	&quot;New Cardiff&quot; describes the American vacation of London artist Colin Ware, who flees a failed love affair and finds himself washed up in the small town of New Cardiff, Vermont, home to an assortment of strange Americans and a struggling tourist industry.  He manages to forget his troubles briefly, sketching townspeople and developing a relationship with another woman, but when his old girlfriend journeys from England to retrieve him his new life goes suddenly awry.<br />This story has much going for it.  It's a classic love story complete with jealous rivalry, a long journey, and the promise (or threat) of marriage, but with quirky and entertaining plot twists to keep it fresh.  The dialogue is rapid and often witty.  The residents of New Cardiff are an amusing set of characters and provide comic relief.<br />But there's nothing in the story to provide comic relief *from*.  The author never really gets into his story.  The book is - despite its heft - actually quite short, with lots of blank space on each page, and is almost entirely composed of dialogue.  The limitations of this format - no description or exposition - nearly overwhelm the story, and make any exploration of the characters or of the larger themes of the book impossible.  <br />The book's continuous banter is surprisingly easy to read, and a hundred pages can fly by in an hour.  But this ease and speed have a price: the whole book - all 354 pages of it - can be read in an evening and forgotten by the next morning, a frivolous waste of a story that could be so much more interesting.	2003-09-24
US	49616493	R34POAA3ICNKHR	0452268079	118982839	Lips Together, Teeth Apart: A Play (Drama, Plume)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	a little bit artsy and very cliche	Two couples - Sally and her husband Sam; Chloe (Sam's sister) and her husband John - are spending the weekend at the Fire Island home left to Sally by her brother, who has died of AIDS.  The tensions between the four of them - tense marriages; old, uncomfortable relationships - and their isolation are played out over the course of one summer day.<br />Much has been made of this play, how beautiful it is, how expertly it shows the fear and ultimate aloneness of everyone, even amidst the tumble of our busy lives.  And the script does make an enjoyable read, kind of a period piece of the late-eighties culture.  It could be an affecting show, with the right cast.<br />But it's nothing great or memorable.  Supposedly it deals with homosexuality and AIDS very honestly and poignantly.  But it doesn't.  It deals with the reactions of four overbred heterosexuals to the existence of homosexuality - reactions that range only narrowly, from mild repugnance to forced indifference.  The loneliness and fear that it takes such pains to elucidate is also nothing new; every playwright from Shakespeare to Ibsen to Tennessee Williams (not to mention every novelist and poet) has shown the protagonist alone despite appearances.  <br />The real uniqueness of &quot;Lips Together, Teeth Apart&quot; lies in its adolescence: it's all stagnation and angst, with characters speaking their lines largely to the audience or themselves.  As an effect it's interesting, but it's a two-bit trick that can't carry the whole play.  No relationships are developed, nothing actually happens between the characters.  It's deeply lazy on the playwright's part, and deeply unrealistic.  People do hear the words their companions say; the subtext is what goes unheeded.  Loneliness comes from the conflict between text and subtext; eliminating the text and elevating the subtext reduces human interaction to a series of soliloquies.  The real distance between people does not come from the fact that the person talking has a spotlight and everybody else is frozen in the dark.	2003-09-21
US	49616493	RTAP116ZWBJ3W	0670880728	738261988	Bridget Jones's Diary	Books	4	0	0	N	N	classic	&quot;Bridget Jones's Diary&quot; was the beginning of a small revolution in women's literature.  It is the book that has begat dozens - if not hundreds - of other books as well as entire publishing labels.  They are modeled after it in style (self-deprecation and self-defeating behaviour) as well as plot (aging single girl in the big city seeks love against parental, employment, and self-induced obstacles).<br />But none of them are quite as good!  Bridget's story has a distinctive tone comprised of an epistolary style, obsessive counting behavior (calories, cigarettes, alcohol units, calls to the British equivalent of *-69), and an unsual diction that makes it a highly entertaining read.  And Fielding has mastered the trick of romantic comedy - making the heroine so flawed and winning that we're rooting for her to find love at all costs no matter how much we believe she should be complete without it.<br />Most first-time readers of &quot;Bridget Jones's Diary&quot; will have seen the movie already.  This shouldn't hinder their enjoyment of the book; the two are more complementary than identical.  The book misses the movie's sheer narrative neatness and obvious resemblance to Austen's &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot;.  However, it's much more complex (the filmmakers altered the plot a great deal) and far more humorous.	2003-09-15
US	49616493	R34XCWS0UMUF2D	0373250150	485798933	Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend	Books	3	2	7	N	N	entertaining but ultimately useless	In this Red Dress Ink novel (the label, as usual, is telling), newly dumped Ex-Girlfriend Emma Carter must navigate the pitfalls of her magazine job and her married (or almost-married) friend, coworkers, and mother - not to mention dating in New York.  <br />Everything about this book is ... acceptable.  It has plot elements aside from the inevitable dating-and-mating issues, but that subplot is clearly secondary (and not entirely devoid of dating-and-mating issues itself).  The narrator is not grossly offensive to the sensibilities of any remotely independent woman, but her struggles seem a little more appropriate to someone much younger than she is supposed to be.  The writing is smooth but nothing special.  On the whole &quot;Confessions of an Ex-Girlfriend is entertaining but not very satisfying.	2003-09-15
US	49616493	RJDVBE041I6XT	0670032379	378345448	The Secret Life of Bees	Books	5	2	2	N	N	charming and a joy to read	A balanced, musical novel about love and harmony, &quot;The Secret Life of Bees&quot; tells the coming-of-age story of 14-year-old Lily Owens.  Withering in her 1964 backwoods South Carolina home, she runs away from an abusive father and an uninspiring life.  She seeks the town of Tiburon, inspired by a picture found among her deceased mother's possessions, and on arriving she meets a world full of remarkable women who lead her on a journey towards happiness, her mother, and herself.<br />&quot;The Secret Life of Bees&quot; is wonderful to read.  It's lyrical and engaging and full of connections.  Bees weave in and out of the story, encompassing the setting and the lives of the characters.  Although it's not a long book and reads quickly, it builds a world, a house of metaphors that engage and delight.<br />The book's only shortcoming is its neatness.  Set at the epicenter of the Civil Rights Movement, it ignores the momentous events of the day, concentrating instead on the deep relationships within and among its characters.  However, when racial issues enter the plot, they are suspiciously tidy.  Although these incidents do not ring true, they hardly mar the story's charm, since their details and level of realism are peripheral to the novel's true concerns: strength in oneself, love among women, secrets, and bees.	2003-09-12
US	49616493	RRPRIFBTG6V7E	0553279556	650435497	E Is for Evidence (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	pivotal installment and a great read	&quot;E is for Evidence&quot; is one of the better Kinsey Millhone books (the worst ones still earn a solid three stars in my rating).  It's well-written and not at all lumpy: unlike most genre reads (and, in fact, many other books and movies), its second act is neither slow nor ponderous, but instead maintains the pace and excitement of the opening chapters, leaving us with only a brief lull before the inevitable plot-twisting conclusion.  <br />Better yet, devoted readers of the Kinsey series will find this book an important turning point in the protagonist's life, illuminating a bit of her past as well as setting up the backdrop of several of the later books.  Moreover, Grafton - creator in Kinsey of one of the most liberated women in our modern age of Bridget Joneses and See Janes Date - is once again ahead of her time (keep in mind, the book was written in 1988) in describing the characters and their relationships.<br />&quot;E is for Evidence&quot; is an excellent read, a must all Kinsey aficionados, and an excellent introduction to the series for readers who can't get their hands on &quot;A is for Alibi&quot;.  Make yourself a pimento-cheese sandwich and dig in!	2003-09-08
US	49616493	RT8DXKCQ3BRDM	0142196002	712793106	The Blessing of a Skinned Knee: Using Jewish Teachings to Raise Self-Reliant Children	Books	4	10	12	N	N	an unusual journey	Neither a parenting book nor a religious tract, \\"The Blessing of a Skinned Knee\\" still provides useful lessons in both areas.  Its message is that children have the potential to be surprisingly wise and noble and inspiring, but they must be helped along by a firm, respectful, and commanding adult presence.  The teachings of Judaism are used to show how a balanced, meaning-focused approach to family life (as opposed to the hedonistic MTV lifestyle or the hectic, achievement-oriented lifestyle of many suburban families) can bring both parents and children to a higher spiritual level while also helping them get along with each other - and themselves.<br />Mogel's words are inspiring, even for non-parents; however, the book's 250 pages could be pared down to half that, streamlining the prose without losing any of its insight.  In addition, the author's attitude is self-righteous and critical at times; she is clearly convinced of the strength of her argument, but her impatience and condesenscion are unappealing.  Still, this is a valuable, thought-provoking read.	2003-09-04
US	49616493	R1HSZBRLN9MX6L	0373250134	559572782	Slightly Single (Red Dress Ink paperback}	Books	2	2	5	N	N	idiotic protagonist, fluffy plotline - typical red dress ink	\\"Slightly Single\\" opens at the beginning of Tracey's second summer in New York, which she will be spending alone, since her gorgeous, inattentive boyfriend is spending the summer acting upstate.  Desperate to find meaning in his absence, she throws herself into a prodigious self-improvement program (weight loss, of course; saving money; vague stabs at classic literature) and (cue sappy music) ultimately rediscovers herself.<br />The big problem with this book is that the protagonist is so darn stupid.  She doesn't realize that her long-term boyfriend isn't into her, despite his obvious indifference to everything about their relationship.  She doesn't realize that her job is going nowhere, despite the fact that she has a college degree and her boss calls her his secretary.  She's obsessed with her weight, of course, and with her crummy apartment and lack of wedding ring, and she's so preoccupied with improving these areas of her life that she overlooks all possibilities for professional or romantic - not to mention personal - improvement.<br />The bigger problem with this book is that it doesn't get much better.  The main character never realizes that her weight - whatever it might be - is not a reliable indicator of her value as a person, or that her boyfriend - even if he's really hot - isn't necessarily right for her, or that there are bigger things in life than double lattes.  Her life changes, but the dynamic forces are all external to the main character.  At the beginning of the summer, Tracey is an immature, insecure, shallow fat girl with a boyfriend and a boss who don't deserve her.  At the end of the summer, the boyfriend and the boss and the fatness have all changed, but she's still immature and insecure and shallow, and you get the feeling that the next summer will find her \\"Slightly Single\\" all over again.<br />Fortunately, this mindless book is short and easy to read and highly palatable - the chapters slide past, and Markham tells a good story.  As a beach read or a Saturday afternoon treat, this book is fine.  As anything else - a work of literature, a commentary on contemporary womanhood, a role model (heaven forbid) for young women - it's deplorable.	2003-09-03
US	49616493	R14IEMZBM2260H	0375726403	340719393	Empire Falls	Books	4	4	4	N	N	a rich, passionate bear hug of a book	There's something about meaty books, books that surpass the average in both length and scope, that comment on the minutiae of their characters' lives without losing the focus and power of their larger themes.  This is a meaty book, and serious, and very passionate.  It's sad at times, frightening, occasionally uplifting, and always absorbing.  Most of all, it's passionate.  The prose is written in an omniscient voice that clings to, rather than distancing itself from, the characters, and the story itself is about passion - the passion of love and the passion of loss and, most of all, the passionate desire of each of the characters to become their &quot;own best self&quot;. <br />Set in a small town in Maine, &quot;Empire Falls&quot; traverses several seasons in the life of Miles Roby, working-class proprieter of the local grill.  Miles is the nominal protagonist, but the story encompasses a number of other characters almost as fully: family, friends, small-town enemies, and the local family of robber barons.  It encompasses more than just the time in which it is set, providing unusually entertaining flashbacks to illuminate Miles' childhood and the town's history.<br />The book's flaw is its ending, which is more suprising than it should be; it lacks a sense of inevitability, even in retrospect.  It's a well-written conclusion, but seems to be poorly aligned with the rest of the book.  Still, the book is well worth reading.	2003-09-03
US	49616493	R1Z9M6QQPT1Q6B	0385318804	7702736	The Only Girl in the Car: A Memoir	Books	4	11	12	N	N	a strong read	Dobie has a real gift for storytelling, and in this memoir of her childhood and teenage years she demonstrates just how enthralling she can be.  Although the ostensible subject of \\"The Only Girl in the Car\\" is the author's sexuality during her teenage years, much of the book is devoted to a detailed recounting of her childhood, and this is perhaps the most interesting part of the book.  The middle portion of the book recounts Dobie's sexual escapades as a teenager, culminating in the night she had sex with her boyfriend and his three friends in the backseat of his car.  Afterwards, she must grapple with the negative reputation she's acquired, which she accomplishes by repackaging herself as a studious loner.<br />Much has been made of the scene of Dobie and her boyfriend's buddies (including the memoir's title), but it lacks the dramatic impact one would expect.  It's apparent that on this night does she finally understands that she is neither respected nor loved by her boyfriend or his friends, and that she is reviled by much of her peer group.  And it's certainly clear why she'd be upset at her boyfriend for coercing her into a degrading experience.  But the emotional power of the scene is absent; Dobie's storytelling powers fail this most crucial test, and because the reader has been left out of the book's climactic scene, it's difficult to reinvest in the remainder of the book.  <br />Still, there is a lot of value in the book.  It's a demonstration of great strength on the part of its author.  The book may seem lopsided in its lack of context; Dobie makes no effort to place her story in the larger feminist discourse.  But it's still an important book, because it's important to her.  It's one woman's story of how her life was, told in her own voice and on her own terms, and not only does she deserve applause for having written it, she also deserves a readership that appreciates her experience and the charm, resolve, and wit with which she recounts it.	2003-08-29
US	49616493	R2R8P8J9M7K017	0345380371	546668910	Rising Sun	Books	2	8	10	N	N	engaging, but soggy and dated	Crichton departs from his usual formula in &quot;Rising Sun&quot;, and the changes are not good ones.  Instead of casting his big-plan-gone-wrong plot in some arena of science - scientific history, scientific future, medicine, technology - he chooses politics.  Perhaps the story worked when it was first written, but ten years later it comes off as reactionary and outdated.  <br />Worse, instead of focusing on the nuts-and-bolts action of his story, Crichton makes a foray into more emotional territory with a first-person narrative that includes multiple love interests and parenting issues.  He fails, however, to make his character either a believable man or a believable Crichton hero.<br />But the book is not a failure: Crichton does still succeed at what he's always been best at.  &quot;Rising Sun&quot; is an entertaining, quick read with plenty of twists and turns.  For readers seeking only a quick thrill, the book offers more than enough.	2003-08-21
US	49616493	R2CTNPFXKPEWXX	1573228184	553362454	The Cigarette Girl: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Bridget Jones gets smart - and dumb	Elizabeth West - a film name if there ever was one - is 28 and single, a Hollywood screenwriter who has decided now is the time to get a man.  Being &quot;in the Zone&quot;, she feels she must no longer succumb to one-night-stands with unsuitable men, instead relentlessly seeking Mr. Right - or Mr. Maybe.  Along the way she must battle the usual obstacles - other women (in this case, hordes of Hollywood models and bimbettes) and a world full of Mr. Wrongs.<br />&quot;The Cigarette Girl&quot; tries to be smart, and it succeeds.  Elizabeth's first-person voice is funny and sassy.  She brings her screenwriting to the book, writing some scenes as if in a script.  Even better, the book's form mirrors elements of movie plots, which the narrator discusses in a quasi-self-referential way.  And the narrator is smart.  Where Bridget Jones and her girl-in-the-city cohorts are incompetent and confused, Elizabeth is accomplished and assured.  <br />But a lot less likeable.  Elizabeth West is not a likeable character.  She's shallow and rigid and a little bit dense - she'll go on a weekend getaway with an ex-lover who's always been unavailable, but she won't go dancing with a nice guy because he's a little bit younger than her.  Her fixation with finding a husband now that she's &quot;in the Zone&quot; comes across as artificial and comic in the wrong way.  And her shenanigans - the relentless search for a man as well as the hijinks along the way - are often just plain dumb.<br />Worst, she never learns.  The book's &quot;unpredictable&quot; and &quot;liberating&quot; ending is actually worse - for the protagonist, and for what remains of feminism - than the &quot;convinces man of her dreams to stop his tail-chasing ways and marry her&quot; finale one expects.  But the book is a fast, smooth, entertaining read, and with the proper suspension of analysis (what does it say about our culture that self-declared intelligent women define a seven-year period of their lives by the searchfor a husband?) can be quite enjoyable.  This book is not a Mr. Right, or a Mr. Maybe.  But if you're looking for something light and funny, it could be a Mr. Right Now.	2003-08-16
US	49616493	R2XALNJJXZKHIY	0553280368	599528019	C Is for Corpse (Kinsey Millhone Mysteries)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	subpar for Kinsey	A young man horribly wounded in a car crash begins Kinsey's third mystery, but they plot behind his accident is unusually thin.  Instead, the book divides its attention between the mystery at hand and the romantic escapades of Kinsey and her landlord - which, while they are well-written and interesting, detract from the suspense and intricacy of unraveling a mystery.  Still, the book is a good read for Kinsey fans.	2003-08-13
US	49616493	RPREJJ1SE7ZAP	0553280341	610600590	B Is for Burglar (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	funny, suspenseful - another great kinsey mystery	&quot;B is for Burglar&quot; is Kinsey Millhone's report on her search for Elaine Boldt, a wealthy woman who, instead of going to her Florida condo, has disappeared.  Par for the course for a Kinsey mystery, the plot is memorable and not too easily unraveled.  An excellent light read.	2003-08-11
US	49616493	R1VSH6XV12UNTT	0393048616	42715644	Star-Spangled Manners: In Which Miss Manners Defends American Etiquette (For a Change)	Books	3	10	11	N	N	thought-provoking but a trial to read	Miss Manners' discussion of American etiquette - by which she means everything from the way we dress and talk and wed to the way we see the world and our place in it - should have been so much better than this.  It's certainly ambitious enough, tackling as it does a swath of American culture wide enough to encompass colonial history as well as the modern entertainment industry.  Its thesis - that American etiquette, with its emphasis on simplicity and equality, has transformed the world for the better and could continue to do so if it were not hindered by our fascination with show business and popularity and our modern discounting of the communal and familial in favor of the individual - is compelling and well-tuned to the advice Miss Manners gives in her columns.  <br />But something is off about this book.  Miss Manners' trademark acerbic tone is replaced by a more serious tenor, perhaps to advance these more serious ideas.  The change is not a positive one, as it robs the material of needed zest.  Worse, the text is unorganized and often confusing to read.  Chapters are quite long, and are divided into page-long sections that often seem unrelated.  The book takes no clear trajectory; instead, it constantly jumps around.  Its end does not seem like a conclusion, but just the place where Miss Manners grew tired of penning an increasingly unwieldy, uninspiring manuscript and turned her quick wit and intelligent ideas to worthier prospects.	2003-08-02
US	49616493	R36Y9W4SZB7FA3	0553279912	198755712	A Is for Alibi (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Everything a good mystery should be, and more.	&quot;A is for Alibi&quot; is the first in the series of Kinsey Millhone mysteries, which currently consists of just under 20 books published over the course of the last 20 years.  They are genre fiction at its finest: suspenseful and interesting mysteries that never fail to entertain or try to enlighten, featuring a private eye narrator whose witty, rough-edged character gives the high drama a practical backbone.<br />I was raised on these books, picking them up off my father's armchair or bedside table and digesting them in a sitting, but I've only read about half of them, and I don't know which half, so I'm beginning a comprehensive rereading.<br />It is a testament to Sue Grafton's writing that realizing I'd already read this book - and that I remembered at least part of the ending - did not diminish its interest.  There were still things I didn't remember but could guess at, and things I could neither remember nor guess.<br />Best of all, there was a lot of good in the book I didn't notice during my previous reading (which may have been two - or twelve - years ago).  Grafton has a flair for language that is unusual in genre fiction, and the structured plotline is a lesson to any aspiring playwright.  The only disappointment is Kinsey herself, who has an unusually soft side in this first book.  Kinsey fans should read it to see the character's roots, and then we should thank Grafton for toughening her up.	2003-07-20
US	49616493	R1WZEU1ICKQOE7	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a plus-sized Bridget Jones	\\"Good in Bed\\" is a coming-of-age story in the vein of Bridget Jones et al.  Cannie is a smart, sassy, overweight journalist whose self-doubt stands in the way of her happiness, pegging her in a marginal career and an unhappy romantic position.  Through the course of the novel she emancipates herself, taking hold of her personal and professional destinies and learning to love herself, extra pounds and all.<br />This book is in every way bigger than \\"Bridget Jones' Diary\\".  Cannie, unlike Bridget, is actually overweight (and self-consciously, but not too aggressively).  This renders the book less servile to the current cult of thinness but also somewhat conflicted; the apparent voice seems is that of a woman who has always worried over her weight but never had clear evidence of its being inappropriate - a voice that probably represents more women than Cannie's actual character.<br />In more important ways, too, \\"Good in Bed\\" is a bigger book.  It deals with more serious issues - Cannie has real triumphs and tragedies, often unconnected to her love life, and she has the insight to realize when she is being silly about men. The book has a more complicated plot than \\"Bridget Jones' Diary\\", without losing the easy-to-read quality that makes little-black-dress fiction so much fun.<br />But being a big book has drawbacks.  \\"Good in Bed\\" doesn't have the same narrative tidiness as \\"Bridget Jones' Diary\\" (an achievement more due to Jane Austen than Helen Fielding).  The ending is satisfying, and certainly well-planned (perhaps too well-planned; some of the plotline is predictable), but it doesn't have the irrepressible neatness, the cyclic detachment, that \\"Bridget Jones\\" acheived.<br />\\"Good in Bed\\" is not another BJ knockoff.  It's written in the same tenor as many of them, but it's more complex and more intelligent.  I've couched this review in comparisons to Bridget's story not because I think that's the only way to look at \\"Good in Bed\\", but because I think it's the bestway.  \\"Good in Bed\\" is a shining example of all the good Bridget did for women's fiction, implemented in a more serious context.  Cannie is, foremost, a modern narrator.  She speaks the language of women today: the author is not afraid to date her writing by making references to politics and pop culture, and this gives the book a fresh, current feel.  She captures the dilemma of an intelligent, confident woman who isn't intelligent or confident about everything, who's self-aware without being all-powerful.  She's not just another protagonist modeled on Bridget Jones.  She's a protagonist - the first I've seen - who has read Bridget Jones.	2003-07-19
US	49616493	R220GYZ7EVAOCW	0142001805	89209679	The Eyre Affair: A Thursday Next Novel	Books	5	2	2	N	N	smart and funny with a  bit of everything	&quot;The Eyre Affair&quot; is a wonderful read.  Set in an alternate history where literature, philosophy, and art inspire passionate debate and even rioting among the general populace, the book tells the story of literary police agent Thursday Next.  In Thursday's world, time travel is possible and the line between fiction and reality is blurred.  Using his unusual powers, the aptly named Acheron Hades has managed to hijack Jane Eyre - the woman, and thus the book.  Thursday must set the world of literature right, capture the evildoer, and save her own skin.<br />Everything about this book is likeable.  It has elements of many several - detective, science fiction, literary references, even a romantic subplot.  The characters, while underdeveloped, are quirky and entertaining.  The story is readable and absorbing.  It's not classic literature, and it's written with the bare nonchalance of many detective stories, but it sets out to delight and surprise and entertain, and it succeeds.  It's the perfect Saturday pastime for any lover of books.	2003-07-11
US	49616493	R2XLPU4MKYRV09	0374276609	457851169	Three Daughters	Books	4	21	21	N	N	awkward, but absorbing, tale of Jewish womanhood.	\\"Three Daughters\\", the first novel of accomplished feminist and non-fiction writer Letty Pogrebin, tells the story of three sisters and their families, friends, and pasts.  Each of the sisters lives a life that is both exactly what she wants and a failure: each is estranged from her family, or from reality, or from her truest self.  Through the course of the novel, they begin to recognize their weaknesses and, with each others' help, forge the beginnings of a better life.<br />It sounds like an Oprah Book Club book, and it reads like one at times.  Pogrebin is obviously a novice; she tries too hard to make clever use of language and often overuses it.  But she writes interesting, believable characters who live in a plausible world.  The story is complex enough to be absorbing for nearly 400 pages (in a time of 200-page books, it's nice to have something to sink one's teeth into) without being confusing.  And, while this book will not win any awards for depth or thematic subtlety, it's an interesting and inspiring read.<br />That this book is most interesting to Jewish women hardly needs saying; the sisters are Jewish and they make no secret of it.  I found the book to be self-conscious about its religious emphasis at times, but Pogrebin's thorough knowledge of unusual aspects of Jewish faith and culture won me over.	2003-07-06
US	49616493	R8FFXEWPNYP5W	0441007988	149450515	Ship of Fools	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a sci-fi page-turner	\\"Ship of Fools\\" is set on the Argonos, a starship housing a small society which has been shipbound for hundreds of years.  The story opens on the cusp of a proletarian rebellion and a potential theocratic coup d'etat, and the narrator, one of the captain's closest advisors, finds himself caught up in political affairs.  At the same time, the society's ancient history and mission is called on: a dead human planet, and then a dead alien ship, are discovered, and the inhabitants of the Argonos must piece together the mysteries they offer.<br />The issues explored by \\"Ship of Fools\\" are many and varied: religious belief and its place in politics, class struggles, the nature and strength of friendship, the existence and religious framework of evil (and whether it can conquer the truly unwilling), and the ultimate power and legitimacy of self-sacrifice.  Yet somehow, even while considering all this, the plot is gripping and fast-paced, the narration is enjoyable, and the book is impossible to put down.<br />The major drawback of \\"Ship of Fools\\" is that it tries to do more than is ultimately possible.  Many of the issues the novel raises - physical disability and deformity, unrequited romantic love - are ignored entirely.  Most of the issues that are discussed are not resolved; in fact, even the action of the story is only partially settled.<br />Lack of closure is not always a fatal error, however, especially in a book with so many satisfying narrative and thematic elements.  Perhaps the author intends to complete the story in a sequel; if so, it will surely be worthwhile reading.  Even if \\"Ship of Fools\\" is the complete story of the Argonos and its inhabitants, it is compelling and thought-provoking reading worthy of any science-fiction fan.	2003-06-15
US	49616493	RSLY5B9SCNYXK	0670894885	424836869	Jane Austen (Penguin Lives)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	a biography for the novel-reader	This biography is an enjoyable read for the lover of Jane Austen novels.  Written by an accomplished novelist, it sidesteps the droning tone and monotonous succession of facts that characterize most biographies.  Instead, its short chapters tell a story that is both interesting in its own right and a worthwhile companion to a study of Jane Austen's literature.<br />As a serious biography, however, this account seems to fall short.  It's light on facts (partly due to the unrecorded nature of much of Jane Austen's life - still, there's little in the way of factual information that couldn't be summarized in a magazine article) and its information is not well-documented.  There are certainly more thorough, factual accounts.  Moreover, what Shields' book lacks in hard facts it makes up for in conjecture, the kind of soft-sided narrative that makes for interesting reading but spongy research material.<br />Still, to Jane Austen fans looking for context, this is a suitable resource.  It's written with an eye to her novels and their interaction with her life as well as the emotional and practical trappings of authorship.  It gives readers insight into the atmosphere of her life, the people she knew and the places she lived, what her days were like.  It's interesting and well-written, and short, and sweet.	2003-06-13
US	49616493	R2PLBU9RDK9NU1	0241136946	530707151	The Travelling Horn Player	Books	5	3	3	N	N	a charming, haunting masterpiece	\\"The Travelling Hornplayer\\" is for anyone who's ever fallen in love or had their heart broken, found a new friend or mourned a death.  It's an intricate, complex, beautiful novel told from the shifting points of view of its characters, each of whom is himself shifting.  Together they form a constellation of flawed geniuses and selfish empaths, drifting through a world that moves them into endless configurations.  \\"The Travelling Hornplayer\\" is about the ripples we make in the world, how they affect those around us in ways we don't anticipate, how sometimes they double back and affect us.  How that shadow disappearing around a corner is sometimes a stranger, and sometimes a friend and sometimes a lover and sometimes our parent, and sometimes we're looking into a funhouse mirror and it's ourself we saw.  It's a book about an essay about a symphony about a poem.  It's a book about writers and students and children and mothers, lovers and artists and spies, murder and mourning and sex and blue flowers.  It's a novel perfect for anyone who loves books and everyone who loves life, and I recommend it without reservation.	2003-06-08
US	49616493	R1MT6HDX5B6LFQ	0517706733	670618256	Miss Manners' Basic Training: Communication	Books	5	8	8	N	N	entertaining, informative, and wise	In this delightful little book, Miss Manners regales us with her opinions on the etiquette of telephones, emails, faxes, and letters.  She provides the proper salutations and cloings for business and personal letters, tells us how to politely rebuff those who would use our telephones to run our lives, and reminds us that sometimes a handwritten note is necessary - and even when it isn't necessary, it's often best.  The book is full of her usual witticisms and sardonic responses to reader letters, and it's a joy to read.	2003-06-08
US	49616493	R2ELURTYL5M9UG	038082101X	694565872	Daughter of Fortune: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	an absorbing, epic novel	\\"Daughter of Fortune\\" tells the story of an interwoven cast of migratory characters whose journeys canvass the globe, bringing them glory and ignominy, fortune and poverty, and ultimately a greater chance at self-knowledge and happiness.  The central figure of the story is Eliza Sommers, a Chilean whose adopted British mother, Rose, teaches her the ways of one world, while their Indian servant, Mama Fresia, introduces her to another.  As a young woman, Eliza falls in love with an unsuitable character.  In pursuit, she travels to gold-rush-era California, there to encounter yet another world and to come into her own as an independent, self-reliant woman.<br />\\"Daugher of Fortune\\" is a long, meaty book, full of interesting characters who each have their own story.  We meet Rose Sommers, whose carries unhealed wounds from the youthful love that destroyed and shaped her life; Tao Chi'en, the Chinese healer who did not believe he could love a woman until he met his wife, who is haunted by his love for her after her death; John and Jeremy Sommers, Rose's brothers whose British politeness conceals their deeply-rooted uneasiness with each other; and countless other workers, servants, prostitutes, noblemen, lovers, and prospectors.  Characters disappear and resurface as their journeys draw them in and out of the story's web; we see men and women's fortunes rise and fall, love won and lost, riches made and gambled away, the past forgetten and then rearing up again.<br />That's what the story is ultimately about: the past and its hold on us.  Each of the characters has a past, or builds one over the course of the story, and each of them must learn from it, build on it, and finally let go of it.  A life lived in the shadow of what was cannot ultimately satisfy any of them, and their struggles to escape the shackles of expectation are powerful and poignant.<br />Like any novel, this one has flaws.  The prose carries too much description and too little emotion: the narrator holdsback from her characters, looking at their lives too much from the outside.  The ending is limp and understated; an additional fifty pages would go far towards closing the story with the same power that began it.  But there are strengths that outweigh the difficulties: a detailed and intricate and surprising plot, the characters, a subtle touch of magical realism, and the joy of reading such a big, wholesome book.	2003-05-31
US	49616493	RH84XHXOJUI31	0192853775	305216397	Being Good: A Short Introduction to Ethics	Books	2	24	38	N	N	confused and defensive	Blackburn's \\"short introduction to ethics\\" is an easy-to-absorb read for the novice, allowing one to learn about the field without venturing into long, heavily-written academic treatises.  However, its contents seem misguided: the three sections focus on \\"threats to ethics\\", ethical issues, and the basis of ethics, and while the second section is appealing, the first and third seem misplaced.  <br />Beginning an introduction to ethics by discussing its detractors, as Blackburn does in his opening \\"threats to ethics\\" section, seems out-of-order and defensive.  Moreover, the subject matter exacerbates Blackburn's prose - wandering, disorganized, and vaguely preachy even when it lacks content.<br />The book's second section focuses on the issues that laypeople might associate with ethics: birth, death, the idea of happiness and what it constitutes.  However, Blackburn's discussions are dominated by definition and exposition(i.e. \\"why is death important to people?  why are we afraid of it?  what have greek/roman/medieval philosophers said about its importance?\\") and ignore the modern field of ethics entirely.  There is a chapter devoted to the major schools of modern ethics, but it doesn't tie into the rest of the book (so we don't learn whether, for example, Kant thought killing another person could ever be permissible).  This incompleteness leaves the reader with no idea of what modern ethicists might say about humanity's most important concerns.<br />The book's third and final section discusses a number of attempts - both ancient and modern - to construct a universal, indisputable framework for ethics.  This section is interesting but seems to miss the point: surely it would be more enjoyable and profitable to a reader who already know the basics of the field.  Like the rest of \\"Being Good\\", it seems written not for the interested but uninformed audience it claims, but rather for the knowledgeable and skeptical reader who understands ethics and argues against its merit.	2003-05-29
US	49616493	R4KKTNHF25JIP	0553274503	571684273	Flowers for Algernon (Bantam Classic)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	classic science fiction	\\"Flowers for Algernon\\" is the story of Charlie, a mentally retarded young man whose intelligence is dramatically enhanced by an experimental surgery.  He discovers the rewards of knowledge and learning, but he also learns about the cruelty of those around him - including his own family and friends - and his ultimate solitude as both an \\"idiot\\" and a genius.  <br />\\"Flowers for Algernon\\" is competently written and assembled, nearly seamless in the rise and fall of its story.  The diary format is well-executed, and Charlie's changing intelligence is aptly demonstrated in his writing.  The prose is honest and the story is unpretentious, holding the reader's attention without resorting to flashiness in either plot or style.  <br />The book's flaw is its excessive quietness.  The author leaves the story to tell itself, and in so doing he deprives it of some of its power.  The knife strikes true, but the final twist - best wrought by a well-placed phrase, a carefully articulated closing line, attention to the beginning of the book and the end - is left unturned, and the reader walks away too lightly, too unmarred.	2003-05-12
US	49616493	R1XSTA890JMI5U	0385503954	977000479	Atonement: A Novel	Books	2	9	16	N	N	a confused, powerless story	&quot;Atonement&quot; is, in book-jacket terms, the panoramic story of a lie that profoundly alters the lives of those it touches.  It is divided into three parts.  The first tells the story of the lie: its background, why it was told, who told it.  The last two show the lie's unfolding consequences.<br />For all its careful planning, the book falls short.  The first part is excellent: well-written, engaging, full of vibrant characters and an interesting story.  The remainder, however, fails to live up to the beginning's promise.  The second part of the book is almost devoid of plot, leaving the third part to clumsily resume and conclude the story.  By then its emotion is diffused, and the book ends carelessly, trying to be powerful and succeeding only in being amusing and somewhat sad.<br />&quot;Atonement&quot; is worth reading only for the lush preparation of its first part.  The rest of the book in its meandering is - like the story itself - a lesson in waste.	2003-05-07
US	49616493	RBF5FM53EER63	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Intricate, panoramic, luscious tale - ruined by poor writing	&quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot; is the powerful, disturbing story of the experiences of a vampire, Louis, as he evolves from a young man to a fledgling vampire to a mature member of the undead.  Its characters are interesting and its plotline is complex and well-measured.  The story is beautiful and sad and highly compelling.<br />But the book is not beautiful or compelling, and its primary sadness is the waste it makes of such a wonderful story.  Rice's prose is heavy and flowery, sometimes lush but very often simply too much.  Often her descriptions are incomprehensible or interfere with the action.  The book's language enjoys a few moments of beauty, but these are smothered by the sheer density of words.<br />Worse, Rice sells out her own story.  The convention of the book is that it is an interview: a character who is referred to only as a &quot;young man&quot; or &quot;boy&quot; is taping his one-sided conversation with Louis.  The interviewer serves no discernible purpose and the interview destroys the story's end: instead of ending Louis's story with the powerful, well-written conclusion it deserves, she neglects it entirely (failing to exploit the opportunities for insight and emotion her well-crafted story offers), instead ending the book with several dull pages about the interviewer himself.  <br />Poor writing aside, &quot;Interview with the Vampire&quot; is not an unpleasant read.  It's long, and it has many slow points, but it's worthwhile for serious science fiction fans.	2003-04-21
US	49616493	R29HMYOJ16TJLR	0060929596	316982155	As Nature Made Him: The Boy Who Was Raised as a Girl	Books	4	3	3	N	N	An engaging and informative story of sex reassignment	\\"As Nature Made Him\\" is the biography of David Reimer, born Bruce Reimer.  As an infant, his penis was destroyed in a circumcision accident, and his parents - young, scared, and desperate - took the advice of doctors and reassigned him as a girl.  \\"Brenda\\" was never happy as a female, however, and when he learned of his birth sex at age fourteen, he elected to undergo a second reassignment to recover his true gender.<br />The book succeeds on several levels.  It tells Reimer's sad but inspiring story.  It educates the reader about the phenomena of intersex and sex reassignment.  And it mounts a subtle yet forceful attack on scientists whose fascination with their own theories leads them to ignore evidence and abuse patients.  Moreover, it is a quick and interesting read.  I recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the science, psychology, and socialogy of gender - and to anyone who is interested in science, psychology, or sociology in general.	2003-04-04
US	49616493	R2GAK6E8AA0HAQ	0609600516	331730961	Miss Manners' Basic Training: The Right Thing to Say	Books	3	20	26	N	N	Not up to Miss Manners' par	While this book is moderately entertaining and serves as a reminder to anyone who has forgotten how to stay out of other people's business and how to nicely keep other people out of their own, it's substandard for Miss Manners.  There's a great deal of repitition and narrowness of approach, and because of this, the book is not as funy or as useful as it otherwise might be.	2003-04-02
US	49616493	R2ZCQG26K9PIIB	0375501851	363806782	White Teeth	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Epic, humorous, and thought-provoking	&quot;White Teeth&quot;, author Zadie Smith's first novel, is the generation-spanning story of two men - one British, one Bengali - whose friendship, career, and families depict an ongoing struggle of race, gender, and religion.  Smith addresses global issues (the relationship of former colonies to their erstwhile rulers and of the working class to the middle class, religious fundamentalism, the tribulations of assimilation) as well as personal ones (marital relations, the complications of siblings, forgiveneness) with a voice that is intelligent and skeptical as well as sympathetic.<br />The book's flaws are minor: occasional slow patches in the 450-page narrative, a (perhaps intentional, but still inappropriate in a novel of this length and scope) superficial treatment of the endgame.  Its assets are recommend it to politicians, readers, and inhabitants of the world: it is an enjoyable read, and powerful in a deliberate, thoughtful way.  The writing, reminiscent of a less flamboyant, more deliberate Tom Robbins, is an excellent counterpoint to the seriousness of the narrative, rendering the characters' struggles entertaining without trivializing them.  The story, rich with its own history, intertwines modern issues with ancient ones, addressing the past and its inhabitants and our struggles to escape them.  Ultimately, it points out, we are victims of a fallacy of the English language: &quot;past tense, future perfect&quot;.	2003-03-30
US	49616493	R2FC4AUGYZCHTF	0517701871	491224016	Miss Manners on Painfully Proper Weddings	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Humorous and informative	In her signature acerbic style, Miss Manners offers suggestions for wedding etiquette that will be entertaining and useful for anyone planning, or enduring, a wedding.  She disparages such popular myths as My Perfect Day and required registries and gives the engaged couple and their families a guide for having a charming, meaningful wedding without exhausting themselves or treading on too many toes in the process.  Reading this book should be a prerequisite for getting engaged.	2003-03-30
US	49616493	R3R9XW3UPLZC07	0156007479	216165989	Slammerkin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An enjoyable, slow-paced historical novel.	\\"Slammerkin\\" is the story of a young girl in eighteenth-century England whose poverty, impatience, and immaturity lead her to prostitution.  She finds her life as a whore alternately fulfilling and shaming, bringing unprecedented freedom yet ultimately inescapable.<br />The plot of this historical novel is slow and meandering; much happens that is important to the novel's resolution, and much happens that is not.  The read, however, is uniformly pleasant and engaging, and the novel's roominess makes it all the more engrossing.<br />The novel's most apparent flaw is its prologue, which consists of a scene from much later in the book.  Knowing that this scene will eventually occur compromises the story's readability, and the prologue seems to have no purpose other than to make the latter part of the story seem inevitable - a burden that should be borne by the story itself, not by a spoiler.<br />A greater deficiency - and perhaps the reason why the prologue was required - is the disjointedness late in the story.  Most of the book flows smoothly, and the main character's decisions - while often of questionable wisdom - are justifiable in the context of her personality.  Near the close of the book, however, her actions begin to seem illogical and confused, even in her own context.  This is likely the result of the author's attempt to base her novel on real historical figures; a bit more exploration of the possible arcs of those people's lives, as well as a less frenetic pace (contrary to the rest of the book, the ending seems rushed, frantic, overwhelmed by itself) might relieve the discomfort.<br />\\"Slammerkin\\" is an enjoyable read despite its shortcomings.  To a more charitable reading, even its flaws inspire it.  The scramble to acheive the preordained ending may be interpreted not as a failure on the author's part but as a meditation on the inevitability of destiny and its imperviousness to our attempts to escape.	2003-03-19
US	49616493	R2Q0ZVDP20GV98	0805059261	398757305	The Fan-Maker's Inquisition	Books	3	2	2	N	N	interesting, well-written, and ultimately empty	\\"The Fan-Maker's Inquisition\\" is an exploration of the thoughts and passions of the Marquis de Sade through letters and journal entries written during his imprisonment and a transcript of the fan-maker's trial.  Its prose is lush and its topics various, flowing from page to page in vivid succession.  As a series of words, sentences, paragraphs, ideas, the book is a marvelous success.<br />But as a story, it's a dismal failure.  There is no discernible plot.  The book cowritten by Sade and the fan-maker (interspersed in sections throughout) - without a doubt the most engaging, and easiest to follow, component of this novel - is too thinly spread to be memorable and bears too little relationship to the rest of the story to resonate meaningfully with it. The remainder - pages and pages - is comprised largely of lists of hedonistic pleasures, primarily food and sexual escapades.  While this is certainly believable as the preoccupation of an imprisoned Sade, it makes for unexciting reading.<br />On its jacket, and in its other reviews, \\"The Fan-Maker's Inquisition\\" is billed as a revolution in thought, in the art of thinking and living passionately.  It certainly has the beginnings of such an accomplishment, with its deft use of words, its vivid descriptions, and its wide range of subject matter (its purview includes, besides food and sex, religion, the settlement of the Americas, and the crafting and uses of fans).  But without a plot, and a definitive ending, the book languishes in its own excessive use of ideas.	2003-03-08
US	49616493	R1IJBPC28UTHKD	0060934417	546555129	Bel Canto	Books	5	2	2	N	N	lyrical, charmed, but too abruptly drawn shut	Ann Patchett's \\"Bel Canto\\" brings together mighty and meek, old and young, from all corners of the globe.  A translator, an opera singer, a sick, chess-playing terrorist, and fifteen soldiers who still sleep like children - when they're all confined to a mansion for several months, the boundaries between them muddy.  Patchett shows us the humanity in all these veneers, the unexpected pairings and unlikely heroes and the passions each prisoner - terrorist and hostage alike - discovers.<br />The book starts out slowly: a state dinner in honor of a foreign businessman, attended by two hundred people he doesn't know.  Even when the party is invaded by terrorists and the guests are held hostage, there seems little to novelize about the characters' sharp personas.  But appearances gradually fall away, and everyone becomes more complicated, and more human, than his job title.  They are all slaves to their duties, but their sudden, lengthy imprisonment frees them.<br />\\"Bel Canto\\" is masterfully written, thoughtful, and satisfying.  Its one weak point is its sudden, hastily foreshadowed ending.  Instead of fate, the novel's final pages feel like something the rest of the book manages to avoid: a carefully planned maneuver gone awry.	2003-02-24
US	49616493	R2IWBNA03N9NJV	0385722206	749687762	Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress: A Novel	Books	4	10	11	N	N	an enjoyable read that misses its own point	&quot;Balzac and the Little Chinese Seamstress&quot; is the story of two Chinese adolescents being &quot;re-educated&quot; in a mountain village.  Together they perform menial labor, try to preserve their perfunctory city education, and meet the beautiful &quot;little seamstress&quot; who lives on the mountain.<br />This is a short, sweet, enjoyable book.  The prose is light and easy to read, although it occasionally bears the mark of awkward translation.  The story is advanced in a concise, measured way; few short novels are this complex without seeming overloaded.  The book is a delight to read: interesting and a bit dark without being obscure or depressing, and full of joie de vivre.<br />The major shortcoming of the book is its abbreviated length.  The author affords so little space to each plot segment that it is difficult to distinguish the important themes, and the ending is so sudden that it leaves the reader unsure of what it is supposed to mean, or whether it is supposed to mean anything.  The outcome does not, in retrospect, seem inevitable or even understandable.  A fuller treatment of the story, including further discussion of the works of Balzac (a French author whose works are referenced but not explained), would make the ending more powerful and provide a more satisfying experience.  However, despite this flaw the book is unusual, enjoyable, and interesting.	2003-02-06
US	49616493	R3OQS7UZNH54U	0345378482	855829988	The Andromeda Strain	Books	4	1	1	N	N	most of a gripping and informative novel	&quot;The Andromeda Strain&quot; is an exciting, realistic novel that chronicles the discovery and study of an imported-from-space pathogen.  Four scientists and a team of technicians working in a top-secret government facility created specifically for such an emergency must isolate, characterize, and neutralize the Andromeda Strain before it infects, and quickly kills, millions.<br />Crichton brings the full force of his research abilities and scientific knowledge to bear on this book, explaining the scientific aspects of the story without detracting from the faced-paced action.  He draws readers into the story within the first few pages, and constructs a plausible and page-turning mystery.<br />The book has two flaws.  The first is that Crichton's narrative voice waxes a bit preachily on the subject of human fallibility; this is at times irritating but usually short-lived.  The second flaw is more important: the ending, which arrives at least a hundred pages too soon.  Throughout the novel, the narration touts the impending consquences of the scientists' mistakes - consequences that are given only twenty pages of discussion at the book's end.  Crichton doesn't even stop to wrap up the loose ends of his plot, leaving the reader with half a dozen unanswered questions and an unconvincing, uncompelling denouement.  Such an interesting premise in the hands of such an entertaining writer deserve a fuller treatment.  However, while the front-heaviness of the book is a serious literary flaw, 260 of the book's 290 pages are exciting, controversial, and engaging - good light reading even if the ending fails to deliver.	2003-01-30
US	49616493	R2KWNG2ACAJY8O	0553278746	957987582	The Postman	Books	3	14	16	N	N	Post-apocalyptic genre fiction at its most average	Brin's tale of a loner's midlife journey in a world devastated by warfare, climate change, and disease is exactly what genre-bound science fiction readers expect.  The protagonist, Gordon, is an intellectual male whose resourcefulness has helped him adapt to a world whose institutions have collapsed and whose people live in tiny, scrabbling communities.  He traverses the (former) Northwestern United States in vague search of something hope for - but accidentally, by way of a postman's uniform he finds in a moment of desperation, brings hope to everyone he encounters.  Ultimately he must reconcile himself to the world as it has become and decide what is truly worth fighting for.<br />\\"The Postman\\" fancies itself an ideological novel, and Brin lays it on thick.  Gordon's search for meaning is unceasing, and unceasingly discussed.  While his crusade is at first sympathetic, it quickly wears thin under the novel's weight as, instead of developing Gordon's character, Brin attributes his every decision to the increasingly desctructive cause.<br />More than just lazily written, \\"The Postman\\" can be frustratingly immature.  The protagonist's - and the book's - tone toward technology is plausible for the young college student Gordon once was, but inappropriate for a middle-aged man whose life and country have been destroyed by a machine society.  Brin's version of feminism seems designed to win bonus points with female fans, but its heavy-handedness and condescension are no less alienating than outright sexism.  These flaws, combined with Brin's broad-stroked, barely-serviceable prose, undermine any serious reader's enjoyment.<br />But \\"The Postman\\" is appealing nonetheless.  It's easy to get into, and the action sequences are freqent and page-turning.  The plot meanders pleasantly, making the book seem longer and meatier than it actually is, and although the ending is both sudden and predictable, it's not unsatisfying.  And ultimately, Brin offers what many sci-fi readers are looking for: a world in which things are different, a new set of rules and a history that comments on our own.  This is not great literature, but it's a fairly good book.	2003-01-25
US	49616493	R1FBHYNGE732T1	3895080969	821153252	Dracula (Konemann Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	classic, in a (mostly) good way	Bram Stoker's tale of the vampire Count Dracula, and related stories of vampires and other demons, have so saturated our culture that reading the originals of the genre is essential to any dedicated student of either literature or popular mythology.  Fortunately, \\"Dracula\\" is not the dusty, overwrought tale one might expect from its length and age.  Instead, it is intense, exciting, and usually difficult to put down.  Stoker had a talent for writing engaging prose that is at once meditative and action-filled.<br />But \\"Dracula\\" is neither flawless nor innocuous.  It's a scary read, and sometimes a dense one - as the book progresses, the excitement is increasingly broken up by literally pages of speechmaking and other nineteenth-century affectations.  While these may be interesting to a student of literature or history, they're static to the modern thrillseeker, and I found myself confused as to whether the author meant the characters' extreme statements of love, hate, allegience, etc. to be taken seriously.<br />This is the dilemma of \\"Dracula\\".  It's a good scare and an interesting read, but the length and breadth of the book convinced me that there must be more to it.  The characters seem too obviously stereotyped - the men in their valiant, unselfish approach to villainy and the women in their purity - to be serious, and the plot proceeds along a course so obvious that it seems the author must be mocking himself.  But that's the problem with reading a classic after you've seen the rip-offs: the classic seems old and overdone, a cheap parody of itself.<br />Still, classics have a lot to offer.  Beyond the fantasy element, \\"Dracula\\" offers a mixture of the traditional epic tale of man against the evil beast without, and the modern introspection of man against the evil beast within.  Despite its flaws, it is a worthwhile read.	2003-01-02
US	49616493	R3TR5WCAGQL6HK	0449912124	758871425	S.: A Novel	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Updike on religious humor and the female condition	S. is the story of Sarah Worth, a New England matron who flees the confines of midcentury feminine affluence to seek spiritual (and sexual) enlightenment in a religious commune.  She chronicles her adventure in letters to her best friend, daughter, and estranged husband, as well as short notes to her former dentist and hairdresser, tapes of conversations with the commune's leader, and a selection of the letters she writes on behalf of the commune's business office.  The story unfolds briskly and subtely, with Updike employing his satirical skill to show a woman who, in leaving her life behind, manages to take it all with her.<br />A benefit of the letter format is that it allows a full exploration of the narrator's voice, to excellent effect.  It also suppresses Updike's tendency to rely too heavily on his (excellent) descriptive language and instroduces an element of suspense that makes the story quite absorbing.<br />S. has been criticized by other reviewers for its perceived mockery of Eastern religions, but I don't think this is intended.  Updike has obviously done extensive research - if not into Eastern religions themselves, then at least into their Western offshoots - and presents the characters with what, for him, is considerable sympathy.  Of course he mocks the narrator's blind devotion to the commune - that's part of what the book is about - but he's mocking the misdirection of her efforts, not the ideals to which she aspires.  <br />The one element of the book that frustrated me was Updike's treatment of his narrator.  Sure, it's fun to read a book about an arrogant and slightly hysterical woman who is always just slightly out of her league - a Bridget Jones for our mothers' generation.  But it would perhaps be more interesting to watch a character really grow through the course of the novel and transcend, or at least recognize, her own bias.  Of course that kind of revelatory change would be anathema to Updike, whose thesis - popping up, appropriately,in book after book - seems to be that life is a cycle, endlessly revolving, lush with beauty and without escape.  And this book is - first and foremost, like all his books - Updike.	2002-12-24
US	49616493	R2O45SIV82F3NB	074321871X	418591690	Female Trouble: Stories	Books	4	0	0	N	N	a collection of odd, interesting stories	Antonya Nelson's collection of short stories, \\"Female Trouble\\", revolves around just that: women who are having trouble, often because of their womanhood or one of its attendant issues.  Nelson manages to explore this over-exposed territory with enough insight and originality, and little enough shrill Bridget-Jones-ripoff whining, to make her stories worth reading.  <br />And they're good stories.  Nelson does everything a writer of short stories should do.  She's skilled at crafting character and plot, her command of language is unwavering, and each story is self-contained, unique, and distinct from the others in the collection.<br />Still, something is missing.  This is a good book, but not a great one.  Nelson pulls her punches.  Her subtlety and sense of balance - characters who are odd but not crazy, plotlines that are curious but not implausible - is what makes the collection worthwhile, but Nelson doesn't seem to know when to be direct.  Her writing is good, but too muted to be powerful, and it's frustrating to read.  She has great ideas, well-developed characters, the perfect setup, and then you turn the page and it's over.  The stories all end in the proper story-ending way, with a climax and resolution, but there's no bang.  Nearly every story left me wishing for just one more paragraph - that perfect event or line of dialogue or turn of phrase - something to push me over the edge from interested to affected, something to make her stories less strange and more profound.	2002-12-08
US	49616493	R1RR3H61PHK1S	0156007193	247759837	The Peppered Moth	Books	2	4	5	N	N	an important lesson embedded in a trying novel	&quot;The Peppered Moth&quot; is the eighty-year saga of an English family, told through the relationships among the women of the family.  It chronicles the youth, education, marriages, dreams, triumphs, and failures of Bessie Bawtry, her daughter Chrissie, and Chrissie's daughter Faro.  Along the way, it addresses concerns of heredity and predestination, most notably the question of whether our destiny and ultimate happiness are determined by the lives of our parents.<br />This book suffers from many failings.  Most glaringly, the everpresent authorial voice alternates between preaching to the characters and bemoaning their (not altogether dreadful) fate.  The discussions of heredity and destiny are just that: discussions, in which the author tells us what we should glean from the story rather than letting the narrative speak for itself.<br />When she isn't lecturing, Drabble isn't a bad writer: she manages to construct a coherent story that spans nearly a century and encompasses over 300 pages without seeming excessive.  But she isn't a great writer either.  Her prose is serviceable but not notable, and the book is rarely engrossing for more than five or ten pages at a time.  It seems to be designed for slow, measured reading and consideration - an approach, like the author's heavy-handedness, not altogether compatible with the novel form.<br />&quot;The Peppered Moth&quot; is an interesting book.  It raises issues that are worth considering, and it raises them through a panoramic view of mother-daughter relations that might be breathtaking if Drabble gave us room to breathe.  It could be a thought-provoking read for a woman trying to come to grips with her own maternal lineage.  But it isn't a fun book, and as a novel (which must entertain its readers, or else offer something dazzling in the way of insight) it ultimately fails.	2002-11-27
US	49616493	R29KVHR4YQI7SX	0786866039	643495278	The Grand Complication: A Novel	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A grand, complicated, engrossing sprawl of a story	This is a book-lover's book.  It's for people who read obsessively, who buy up 10-cent paperbacks at flea markets, who haunt library discard sales, who can't venture inside a library or bookstore without somehow acquiring a few finds.  It's also a book for thinkers, people who enjoy complication and subtlety and minutaie.<br />The plot concerns a librarian, Alexander, who is drawn into an old man's search for a famous antique timepiece.  It explores the nitpicky politics of his job, his polar relationship with his wife, and his personal dreams and the fears the prevent him from realizing them.  It also comments on the nature of friendship and betrayal, the importance of searching over finding, and the nuances of a language and a world that can often hide within its own crevices.  All of this is contained in an even 360 pages, at the end of which the book has wound mysteriously back to its opening.<br />There are flaws, however.  The author, while skilled in the crafting of plot and the intricacies of pun and puzzle, has no particular gift for linguistic beauty.  The writing is congenial, but its aesthetic neutrality is glaring, especially given the subject matter and the high quality of the rest of the book.  Passages that could be devastating with the appropriate word or phrase are instead merely interesting.  The story's ending, which could be powerful and memorable, is instead satisfying.  It's still good, and still very much worth reading, but the lack is sometimes keenly felt.	2002-10-11
US	49616493	RSYJMNW5HP4OU	0811828964	56191234	The Bad Girl's Guide to Getting What You Want	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Witty and serious	Slim as this book is, it's actually two books mixed up in each other.  They're both good books, worth reading.  Sometimes, however, you won't know which one a given page or paragraph belongs to.<br />The first book is a humorous look at some of the many gutsy, outrageous things you've probably always wanted to do - whether or not you knew it.  It includes amusing advice on how to exploit your feminine wiles to score everything from free drinks to free office supplies.  It's easy-to-read and nicely illustrated and is good for at least a few laughs.<br />The second book is a bit of serious advice for the woman who has spent her life fulfilling other people's needs and ignoring her own.  The party line: wise up, toughen up, kick your insecurities to the curb, and start getting what you want from life - even if requires extreme measures.  <br />The book becomes confusing when the author brings humor to her serious advice, and the question arises as to what we're meant to take seriously and what we're not.  I'm sure the line about stealing other people's drinks with a two-foot straw was a joke.  I hope the section about dating yourself before you find a boyfriend - learning to love and indulge yourself - was serious.  I'm not sure what to think about the page devoted to getting men to buy you drinks through various forms of flirtation and deception.  <br />Regardless, this much is true of \\"The Bad Girl's Guide To Getting What You Want\\": it's funny.  It might make you think, it might confuse you, it might make you roll your eyes at the obviousness of its message.  But it's funny.	2002-10-03
US	49616493	R3BII6A8PT7SUT	0312130279	84547640	The Bird Artist: A Novel	Books	3	14	17	N	N	A (perhaps too-) unusual story of love, lust and murder.	The idea behind this book is to take one of literature's most-proven plotlines and give it a dark, minimalist twist.  The story tells of the 1911 coming-of-age of Newfoundler Fabian Vas, who makes his living drawing birds and repairing ships.  The action follows Fabian's bizarre love affair with his childhood friend and his arranged marriage to a distant cousin, his mother's adultery, and his murder of his mother's lover.<br />But the story is stranger than its summary.  For such a raw tale, for a book that touches on so many deep and barely-controlled passions - love, hatred, revenge - the writing is remarkably quiet.  There's no spark among the characters and rarely any heat.  The protagonist reacts far more than he acts, and even then it is with more resignation than furor.  The plot is controlled by his mother and his lover, two women with only a tenuous grasp on reality, decency, and what it means to be human, and it zigzags without regard to the boundaries of normal people.<br />The writing and the setting contribute to the feeling of blank surrealism engendered by the storyline.  Newfoundland is generally described in books as a place rich in its bleakness and isolation (although one would have to have read other books set there, or have been there, to know this).  And the writing itself is harshly minimalist, to the point of seeming simplistic and a bit uncrafted.<br />Which is perhaps what the author intended.  Maybe, if one is patient enough to see through the tired sentences and dry narration, the characters who don't care or give the reader a reason to do so, and the sheer indifference displayed by the writer and his subjects towards the unfolding drama, there is a lesson.  Perhaps the book is not about the largest passions of the human experience but about a man - who so many of us have been - who looks at his unfolding career and his longtime lover and feels nothing but emptiness, a vague confusion, and an obligation to fear.	2002-09-29
US	49616493	R12GQNQG51VTOW	0743400836	415925706	Girl Talk	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Original, but cutesy and awkward	For a book that at first glance appears to be just another Bridget Jones takeoff (women's-interests title, confessional first-person tone, 20-something professional or semiprofessional female narrator who loves all the wrong men and suffers the consequences), Girl Talk has an impressively original plot.  The story alternates between Lissy's present-day concerns - her approaching 30th birthday and unintentional pregnancy - and a recounting of her 15th summer, during which her father left with a younger woman and her mother taught her what she has come to view as the blueprint for her own life.<br />Surprisingly, it works.  Both stories are compelling and entertaining, and the link between the two is plausible without being overbearing (the narrator avoids slipping into moralistic commentary on her past deeds).  Moreover, the events of the stories are arranged to yield a pleasing resonance without seeming too contrived.<br />Still, this is a three-star book.  Its undoing is the language it's written in - tense, wooden, trying too hard.  Occasionally the author breaks through with something good, but most of the time she's trying too hard to make every phrase beautiful and meaningful, yielding only a series of empty platitudes.  The book's descriptive passages are lacking in quantity as well as quality, leaving the external landscape fuzzy in favor of detailing the narrator's every thought.  The final pages, which are obviously designed to leave the reader with a certain sensation, fall flat.  I knew what the author wanted me to feel, but I didn't feel it.  In the end, all of that original plot left me with very little in the way of original thoughts.<br />Still, this is not an unworthwhile book.  It's cute.  It certainly isn't bad.  There's just so much out there that's very similar.	2002-09-16
US	49616493	R17LQ0OSVJFON9	1573227161	950636517	Caucasia: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A study in ambivalence	This is one of those books to which the plot seems secondary.  It's a traditional coming-of-age story: girl discovers her family's dark side and learns to accept it.  The ornamentations - parents who border on psychotic and a backdrop of barely-contained racial tension - are at best only that; at worst they are confusing and alienating.  The real draw of the novel is the shifts it details and delights in: the narrator's transition from black to white to black again; the secret language, somewhere between thought and word, she constructs with her sister; the flexible realities constructed by her and her mother as they flee a sometimes-real, sometimes-imaginary oppressor.  I'm not sure if this book is worthwhile as a lesson in race relations, interracial marriage, or bi-racial living - it's too self-conscious at times, and the only thing to learn seems to be that nobody is really comfortable in their own skin.  But as an excursion into a land of shadows, the book is marvelous.	2002-09-09
US	49616493	R2WIOAS0DQZ1VO	0375505458	448996310	A Collection of Beauties at the Height of Their Popularity: A Novel	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Overwhelmingly marvelous.	This is an amazing book.  It is beautiful, enchanting, and a little bit cynical.  The plot weaves in and out among itself: the book is composed of a series of what at first appear to be independent short stories, but soon begin to link and spread, forming a connecting and disconnecting network.  The stories skip in and out of time and place, following a pattern in theme rather than in chronology; the discontinuity can be confusing if you want to remember everything, but it contributes wonderfully to the dissipative, collectivist mood of the book.  Each story opens with a copy of a Japanese print and a description that is meant to parallel the events of the story, and the book as a whole is meant to reflect a famous Japanese diary.  These connections are occasionally obvious and often obscure; searching for them is part of the excitement of reading such an interwoven work.  The prose is always smooth and often beautiful, and the characters and plot are developed with a distinct sense of artistry.  The book as a whole is amazingly balanced, readable, and occasionally stunning.  It deserves to be read slowly and in a quiet room.	2002-09-09
US	49616493	R28LBG2QF8DYUA	0811806294	458831348	Mendocino and Other Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	a little slow, but rewarding	Mendocino, a collection of short stories, details the fading, desultory lives of its characters, men and women who have gotten lost somewhere in early adulthood.  It's more adult than many such books, and sadder, and the characters' searches for identity and balance and truth are quieter, more realistic, and often more dramatic.<br />There are ten stories in this book, and while none is longer than 25 pages, some of them seem to drag.  There's a bit too much description, and many of the stories are composed largely of the interior monologues of not-too-interesting characters.  The book was always a pleasant read, but not always an exciting one.<br />Some of the stories, however, are worth mentioning.  \\"Horse\\" is a narrative of a young girl's ill-fated attempts to become a cheerleader amidst her family's recovery from a father's death and a strange young man who comes to live in their home.  \\"The Glass House\\" describes a woman's attempts to reconcile the elements of her life - a child, a husband, a new home - into something that doesn't terrify her.  \\"Tillman and I\\" describes a hunting trip that tests a couple's relationship.  These stories are well-plotted and well-written, but their true magic is in their harmony.  There is something pleasing about the way they unfold, the pieceing of beginning to middle to end.<br />The book itself unfolds nicely, too.  It begins quietly, in remembrance of mourning, travels through forms of love, loss, and recovery, and ends in a quiet room above a noisy gathering, with a period of mourning that is just beginning to end.	2002-08-13
US	49616493	R20YW75WJK90EA	0060191058	633516313	The Bachelor's Cat: A Love Story	Books	3	7	8	N	N	Short and simple, sometimes too much so.	&quot;The Bachelor's Cat&quot; tells the story of a man who adopts a stray kitten and, after forging a friendship with his new pet, is finally able to understand what a loving romantic relationship entails, finally choosing between a manipulative but beautiful woman and a less attractive woman who treats him well.<br />The book is a fast read; I started and finished it inside of an hour.  The unusually short length is appropriate to the work; dragging it out for another hundred or two hundred pages would only have turned a winning tale into a dragging bore.  Even at its current length, there are slow sections, such as the pages of description of the bachelor playing with his cat - perhaps these are interesting to cat lovers, but after the first description of the &quot;fishing game&quot; I had heard enough about it.<br />A more important criticism of this book is the immaturity and pigheadedness of the bachelor himself (which the author, to judge by the book's tone, seems to share).  Here we have an adult man, clearly meant to be in his early or middle thirties, who spends months debating whether to be involved with a beautiful woman who cheats on him and makes him miserable, or a woman who makes him happy in every way but who is slightly overweight.  The fact that the decision is so difficult, and that his thoughts during the process are so shallow and unattractive, removes any satisfaction from the final, unsurprising outcome.<br />So there is nothing very mature about this book, either in the characters or in the way they are portrayed.  Perhaps the author is exhibiting his genius for simplicity; perhaps this is simply the height of his ability.  Either way, the book is short and pleasant and easy to read, especially for cat-lovers.	2002-07-28
US	49616493	R3PNLWW5PF7Y2I	0312862954	69832673	Pirates of the Universe	Books	3	3	4	N	N	standard - but intelligent - post-apocalyptic sci-fi	It seems every writer of science fiction has to publish at least one novel set in the not-too-distant future, in which the Earth has been largely destroyed by wars or environmental disasters, currently commonplace amenities such as electricity and personal freedom are rare, and the future is just as hopeless as the present.  \\"Pirates of the Universe\\" is typical of that sub-genre.  The main character begins in a position of status that insulates him from the difficulties of his world.  His privileges are stripped from him without explanation, and he embarks on a journey to discover unexpected truths about his family, his society, and the universe.<br />There are positive aspects of this book that set it apart from most other works of its type.  The plot is uncommonly complex, and there are a number of unusual, interesting details - it's clear that Bisson has devoted a lot of thought to the world he's created, and it makes for an engaging and stimulating read.  But these strengths are marred by the book's essential weakness, which is - not surprisingly - its post-apocalyptic setting and tone.  Bisson is often preoccupied by impressing upon his readers the unpleasantness of the book's universe, and this makes the book awkward and unpleasant to read at times.<br />Overall, \\"Pirates of the Universe\\" is an interesting and enjoyable book.  The author has some good ideas, and he has the ability to write a plot that strings them together engagingly.  However, readers who can't tolerate the preachiness that seems inherent to the genre will probably not want to subject themselves to the dose Bisson metes out.	2002-07-26
US	49616493	REK7ZF2RN903O	0312201656	477658660	I Capture the Castle	Books	5	10	10	N	N	enchanting	\\"I Capture the Castle\\" is the 1930's coming-of-age story of 17-year-old Cassandra, who lives in rural Britain with a cast of simultaneously comic and tragic family and friends.  During the spring, summer, and autumn months spanned by the story, she pens a diary that describes her first adult lessons about love, sisterhood, and friendship.  Although the voice is believably adolescent, the lessons Cassandra learns are completely adult.<br />\\"I Capture the Castle\\" is beautiful in every way a book should be.  It's gentle without being sappy, humorous without being mocking, gorgeously (although a bit painstakingly) written without digressing into flights of narcissistic prose.  The narrator is both an ordinary child and an extraordinary woman, and her greatest strength as a character is the believability of her weakness.  The other characters are interesting and unusual and completely human.  The setting, a barely-refurbished medieval castle, is very nearly a character in its own right, and it informs and interacts with the story in a way I've rarely seen outside of the works of Gabriel Garcia Marquez.<br />The book, with all of its lyricism and innocence and wise optimism, teaches a gentle and almost invisible lesson.  It's about learning to love fairly and accept love gracefully, about being faithful to your friends even when it hurts, about who constitutes a family and how one goes about caring for them, about how growing up is not the end of a the road but the beginning.  It's not a new lesson, but it's one we all need to learn a little more.<br />But \\"I Capture the Castle\\" is more than a beautiful book, and more than a lesson.  It's an experience.  It's as if Jane Austen had been reborn 130 years later and rewritten \\"Sense and Sensibility\\" with a compassion and magic her original work missed.  Or as if \\"Little Women\\" had been written for adults: just as so many little girls start their own \\"Pickwick Papers\\" and take to eating apples in attics after reading Alcott'sbook, after reading \\"I Capture the Castle\\" I wanted to find a ruin in Britain, fit it with indoor plumbing, and spend the timeless days of summer sitting in the tower and penning a journal of my own days and dreams and loves.	2002-07-21
US	49616493	RSDVVRFIWH7WY	0553375407	350438534	Ishmael:A Novel	Books	1	108	229	N	N	An insult to your intelligence	If you're thinking of reading this book, it's probably because you're an intelligent and thoughtful individual who enjoys quality literature that challenges you intellectually while engaging you emotionally.  Which means this book would be a waste of your time.<br />\\"Ishmael\\" is not, despite its categorization as fiction, a novel.  It is a work of philosophy, and a poor one.  Its central tenet - that human beings, through their total disregard for the world around them, are destroying the Earth and its non-human inhabitants as well as each other - is true enough, but it's also obvious to any halfway thoughtful or literate person.  Its secondary tenet, that the media portrays the subjugation and destruction of the Earth's wildlife and environment as an inevitable product of civilization, is almost as trivial.  If the book has a tertiary tenet, it's that people in general are so stupid that they need to be told this stuff, and that they need to be told it repeatedly, in language appropriate for casual conversation with a fifth-grader.<br />What else is wrong with this book?  Well, it's based on the ridiculous premise of a telepathic ape who lives in an office building and bestows his wisdom on the protagonist, which makes the whole story seem like something Kurt Vonnegut might have written as a joke, if he were capable of writing this badly.  The protagonist (if a novel with no story could be said to have a protagonist) is one of the least intelligent characters I've come across in a novel.  Presumably this is an excuse for the ape to repeat his teachings, again and again, as if they're in some way revolutionary.<br />So what's *right* about \\"Ishmael\\"?  Why did it win a prestigious award, and why have so many reviewers - professional as well as Amazon-based - given it high marks?  Well, as philosophy books go this one is unusually easy to read and understand.  As novels go, it has more of a social conscience than most (although, as I've said, this social conscience ispoorly expressed and destroys the book's value as literature).  The things \\"Ishmael\\" says are true and valuable and might be interesting if they were expressed more thoroughly and in a less patronizing manner.  It's not a *bad* book, really.  I wouldn't call it a waste of paper.  It's just wildly inappropriate for anyone who might read it.  A book like this is going to attract an audience of intelligent, educated people: people who have already learned - through other books, or other people, or their own thoughts - everything \\"Ishmael\\" has to teach.  The people who should consider reading this book, who might really learn something from it - children under the age of, at most, twelve and anyone who has never had an original thought in his life - are not likely to pick it up.  Which, I can't restrain myself from saying, isn't a huge loss.	2002-07-15
US	49616493	R4XM7021IKQ6U	0375412328	730328920	Dogwalker: Stories	Books	5	1	3	N	N	an amazing, disturbing, obsessive tour de force	This book of short stories - ostensibly independent, but linked in style, subject, and theme - strikes a rare balance between sublime writing and readability.  The stories are models of their genre, written in a flat, simple style that flatters the content, and the author is careful to exclude extraneous material that could distract from the intensity of his work.<br />But beware - these stories are *intense*.  More than that, they're disturbing.  They revolve around deformation and mutation on both the physical and psychological levels.  The characters in the book are stunted, twisted creatures with amputated limbs and tumorous growths - sometimes on their bodies, but more often in their minds.  They do things that seem bizarre and disgusting until, gradually, they begin to seem deeply truthful.  <br />And that's a good thing, because it makes you think about your own life and what it means to you.  But it's also a difficult thing.  Don't buy this book to read on your vacation, and don't buy it to distract yourself from life's complications.  Buy it because it's literature at its grittiest and most incisive, because it's everything a difficult book should be, and because these stories, of all the books you read this week or this month or this year, will be among those you remember.	2002-07-13
US	49616493	R1UYOX8T0KP9C9	0618219064	150294181	The Wind Done Gone: A Novel	Books	4	6	11	N	N	A beautiful story, beautifully told	I was wary of this book at first.  I thought it would be preachy, and I thought its inspiration would be its fascination and its undoing.  I was right - &quot;The Wind Done Gone&quot; is preachy, and the novel that inspires it also confines it.  But this is not just a satire of or sequel to &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot;; this is, or it wants to be, a book in its own right.  It's the story of a woman who learns how to love herself and her family, how to share (and how not to share) her men, and how to finally outgrow her past.  <br />The book has problems.  Randall's writing is sometimes cumbersome and sometimes beautiful; the book's 200 pages sometimes seem too long for its story.  The novel is written in the form of a diary, and the inherent sluggishness of the format is an intermittent difficulty.  The narrator's obsession with the events of another book is often tiresome, especially for readers with a less-than-detailed memory of the plotline of &quot;Gone With the Wind&quot;.<br />In the end, though, all is forgiven.  The diary format showcases Randall's amazing writing, which seems to ripen in the last 40 or 50 pages of the novel.  She becomes less a parody of Margaret Mitchell and more a likeness of Octavia Butler.  The narrator moves out of the past and into the present, and this narrator is in many ways more sympathetic than Scarlett.  Scarlett was a woman you loved in spite of yourself; she was also a woman you hated.  Cynara, the narrator of &quot;The Wind Done Gone&quot;, is a woman you like; in some ways she is probably a woman you *are*.  This is a story about African-Americans after the Civil War; it is also a story about what people everywhere, once freed, must do to own their freedom.  <br />This is a beautiful story and beautifully told.  It suffers from its superficial dependence on another book and from its author's insistence on ripping to shreds a few of the many myths of that book.  But at its core is a really good novel.  If you're willing tosift through the viciousness toward Scarlett and her story, this is definitely a book worth reading.  Otherwise, remember Alice Randall's name - hopefully she'll write a second novel.	2002-07-13
US	49616493	R1W4659C1SF86D	0373250118	46887746	See Jane Date (Red Dress Ink)	Books	3	14	14	N	N	entertaining but frothy	This is yet another book in the Bridget Jones tradition: bumbling but endearing city girl seeks self-improvement and searches for love in all the wrong places.  The similarities are remarkable: the main character, Jane, is a lowly editor at a minor publishing firm; she has a longstanding crush on her gorgeous yet unattainable boss; she continually resists fix-up attempts by her relatives.  The difference is largely in tone: where Bridget (following in the footsteps of her own model, &quot;Pride and Prejudice&quot;'s Elizabeth) makes us laugh at every page and leaves the final lesson of the novel almost as an exercise to the reader, Jane is more serious - and more preachy.<br />&quot;See Jane Date&quot; is not great literature.  The quality of the writing is mediocre and the plot, for anyone who's read Bridget or her successors, is predictable.  But it's a quick and highly entertaining read, perfect for a lazy Saturday afternoon or the beach or an airport.<br />People have given this book bad reviews because it's Chick Lit at its most typical: light, girl-oriented, focused on the dual single-girl-in-the-city topics of finally outgrowing high school and braving the singles scene.  They're right about these attributes, but I think they're limitations rather than flaws.  You probably won't identify with anything in this book unless you're a woman between the ages of 18 and 40.  But if you *are* a woman between the ages of 18 and 40, there's a good chance you'll identify with every word.	2002-07-07
US	49616493	R3UYZT19ZAEO80	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	4	228	250	N	N	"The Catcher in the Rye" on crack.  literally.	This novel - written and set in Los Angeles in the 1980's, so be prepared not to understand many of the pop-culture references if you're much younger than 30 - details four weeks in the life of eighteen-year-old Clay, who returns home from college halfway through freshman year for a month-long Christmas vacation. He spends most of his time hanging out with his friends from high school, going to bars and nightclubs, having sex, and doing drugs.<br />So what's the big deal? Booze, sex, and drugs might be fun to *do* for four weeks, but reading about them for 200 pages sounds like it might get old. And it does. You begin to lose track of the characters, because there are so many of them. You begin to forget where Clay was this morning, where he was last night, what day and what time it is right now. You begin to stop caring how much crack he smokes or how many other drugs he mixes it with, whether his sex partners are male or female. You stop worrying that his parents might catch him, that he'll have a bad trip, that - even in 1985 - he'll get HIV. <br />And that's the point. The book is less a narrative than an experience. The manic highs and desperate lows of Clay's existence will blur together and you'll grow confused about the purpose of your own life. The 200 pages of this book - with large print, and broken up into easy-to-handle page-long vignettes - will become 200 minutes of ebb and flow, the swell of a wave under which you, because you aren't the one doing all those drugs, will never become trapped.<br />Be aware that this book can be frustrating. The central conflict is an internal one, and only vaguely delineated, and never really resolved. The book seems to end not because it is finished with the story it tells but because it has reached the end of its allotted span.<br />Do not read this book if you are looking for something pleasant, or something gripping, or something sweet. Do not read it for humor or suspense or an interesting plot. Read it if you read \\"The Catcher in the Rye\\" in junior high and didn't quite understand. Read it if you're nostalgic for futility. Read it on a train or a bus or in an airport, to contribute to the timeless, anchorless feel of the book. Read it quickly, in as few sittings as possible, and then leave it somewhere - in the pouch where they keep the barf bag, on the end seat of one of those long, featureless rows, on the counter in a public restroom - to keep company with somebody else, on some other journey.	2002-07-06
