US	49610258	R3TVMSXLP8QRAP	1859843239	513688777	The Holocaust Industry: Reflections on the Exploitation of Jewish Suffering	Books	5	33	41	N	Y	Reclaiming the Holocaust	Norman G. Finkelstein's family, like millions of other Jewish families, was a direct victim of the Holocaust. Finkelstein's work did not come across to me as the work of someone who is denying the holocaust; it came across as the work of someone reclaiming the Holocaust for the Jewish people.<br /><br />Finkelstein, through very methodical research and persuasive logic shows how the memory of the Holocaust was turned into generating money to support causes of Israel after 1967. He argues that American Jews were largely indifferent to Israel before 1967 and suggests that the trade in the memory of the Holocaust was used to offset the newly found strength of Israel, a way to counter balance the image of the Jews as oppressors, or as an occupying army.<br /><br />Finkelstein paints a picture of the memory of the Holocaust used to extract huge sums of money from various parties; he went into great detail covering the settlement between Swiss Banks and Jewish organizations on behalf of the Holocaust survivors. The picture painted by Finkelstein is indeed ugly fully of conspiracy, black mail and abuse of the public.<br /><br />Overall The Holocaust Industry offers a very grim view of mainstream Jewish American organizations; it paints an ugly picture of propaganda and manipulation of facts, numbers and emotions.<br /><br />Whenever I read books that offer a conspiratorial view of events I feel the need to read an alternate view, so far I have not found a balanced rebuttal to Finkelstein ...	2003-04-17
US	49610258	R25IEWPGH8ZLLQ	140334793X	357745977	Delights from the Garden of Eden: A Cookbook and a History of the Iraqi Cuisine	Books	5	35	36	N	Y	Fantastic	Very well written. Full of interesting stories and tales. Much more than a usual recipe book. And most important very veggie friendly. The way of telling the stories is very fluid, very personal. It is rare to come across a fantastic ethnic cuisine writer who also happen to have such excellent facility with language<br />Comprehensive and clear with a nice style of writing. Can almost taste the dishes as you read about them.<br />Loved the various rice dishes and the use of yoghurt is clearly very imaginative in Iraqi cuisine. All so new to me<br />Enjoy!	2003-04-02
US	49610258	R2RJH942G4YZWD	0814719058	817030153	Servants of Allah: African Muslims Enslaved in the Americas	Books	5	26	29	N	Y	Islam in America 1501 - 1920	Fascinating study of African slave trade focusing on the Moslem African slaves. Servants of Allah offers excellent survey of the African cultural and geopolitical situation prior to and during the years of the slave trade. It is through this foundation that we understand the various ethnic and religious roots of the African slaves.    Wisely the book has not focused on the middle passages covered in many other works but instead focused on the lives of Moslem slaves, in particular, in US, Caribbean and Brazil. The tremendous research and analysis has produced a true groundbreaking work in beginning to understand this very sad chapter of history.     I learnt a great deal from this book, I had no idea of the extent of suffering Moslems and other slaves endured, I didnt know about the use of Arabic in US & rest of Americas as a way for enslaved Africans to communicate and even to keep plantation books. I had no idea of the suppression of Islam practiced as early as 1501 and the brutality of the Spanish Inquisition in the new World all they way through early 20th century. I was amazed to learn how in US the clearly well educated enslaved blacks were denied their Africaness by their masters and relabeled Arabs or Moors and in doing so the White Masters could continue to make sense of the inferior status of the black Africans.    At times Diouf may have been a touch too romantic about the behavior of Moslems and it times attributed culturally narrow definitions to Islamic traditions, this does not detract from the excellent contribution of this most enlightening work on a very rarely addressed subject.	2003-03-12
US	49610258	R2ME0M7BDKRPK8	1561310220	868921080	Leo Africanus	Books	5	44	48	N	Y	The Global Witness	The story of Leo Africanus or Hassan Al Wazan is a truly fascinating tale. Amin Maalouf has done an outstanding job in creating a very readable largely biographical work of a remarkable man. While a fiction there are no historical inaccuracies and a tremendous degree of accuracy in corroborating the event of this magnificent work with actual history. <br />A wonderful aspect of Leo Africanus is the pitfalls it avoided. Amin Maalouf did not attempt to paint a picture that support a certain vision of history or advances a certain agenda. This is a common theme in modern day work on history and especially historical fiction. The one agenda that Amin Maalouf may have had in mind and advanced beautifully is that the world is full of wonderful people; they come in different religions, different colors and different ethnicity and they speak different languages. The world is also full of many awful people from different religions, cultures and colors.<br />Reading Leo Africanus one feels a direct witness to the fall of Andalusia to the Spanish and its aftermath, the fall of Cairo to the Ottomans and its aftermath and the fall of Rome to the Lutherans. Globalization and the \\"global village\\" and easy travel may have made the world smaller in our time, for Hassan Al Wazan too, nearly 600 years ago traveling the globe and fitting in was a way of life.<br />Exceptional historical and cultural education, beautifully written and well translated.	2003-03-12
US	49610258	R2OVSO92LTIZNA	B00006F7LA	822422067	Prodigal Summer	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beyond the Poisonwood Bible	While Prodigal Summer has not enjoyed the level of popularity The Poisonwood Bible has seen amongst Kingsolver's fans, for me personally Prodigal Summer is, by far, the better work, more developed and more mature than the excellent, poetically beautiful and eventful Poisonwood Bible.<br />In Prodigal Summer Kingsolver's lyrical and sensitive language and detailed description transport us whole into the lives of Lusa, Deanna and the fascinating elderly feuding neighbors Nanny and Garnet <br />The various characters, even the minor ones, in Prodigal Summer are far more developed, more real, more 3d in comparison with the admittedly more poetic Poisonwood. In Prodigal the pace, throughout, is restrained, consistent, the various plots nicely develop towards a future meeting point at a natural pace. Beautifully crafted and exciting natural meeting point emerge in a slow fashion as we get to know more and more about our new friends.<br />Lusa, a city woman from Lexington, with a Polish Jewish father and Palestinian Moslem mother finds herself on a farm in an Appalachian valley. Lusa, surrounded by a closed society with lots of antagonistic and suspicious in-laws inherits the big house and the family farm. Conscious of the suffering and the loss of her Jewish family of their farm at the hands of the Nazis and the loss of her mother's Palestinian family of their farm at the hands of the Jews, Lusa won't quit she fights on to make a go of it. Lusa, an expert on bugs and moth, struggle with loneliness, widowhood and temptation, her desire to fit but to be herself, her whole being is so very beautifully created and brought to life in vivid colors before our eyes by Kingsolver. The minor in-laws start out as cardboard characters, a hateful envious lot in the distance; gradually they are turned into real people in Lusas' and our eyes.<br />Deanna, the Forest Service Rancher, living in the mountain above Lusa, nearly 20 years her senior, is the center of the second plot. Originally from the valley below, and had she stayed there she could have been Lusa's soul mate, has been on the mountain for two years. In love with the mountain, its animals, its birds and its weeds and trees, a true conservationist with a devotion to predators. Kingsolver portrays Deanna's life on the mountain with such detail and empathy, one can picture her log cabin, can see the little bird's nest and can smell the change in the air. Deanna's peace and tranquility are disturbed by an intense affair, one that leaves her confused about her own body but very clear on her ideas<br />The odd pair, the elderly Nanny and Garnet are so wonderfully painted by Kingsolver. Nanny, again a generation older than Deanna, is an organic farmer, a hardworking woman who has always stood up for her ideas and for her independence. A fascinating woman in her weaknesses, in her courage and in her wit. Kingsolver's talent, so clearly evident in Poisonwood in the way she wrote on behalf of the several characters, comes across so well here but in a more subtle way. The three women from different generations share a lot in their independence, self respect and love of nature, but they are different, they speak differently and they deal differently with life. In Poisonwood the daughters were very different and thus their language, when Kingsolver wrote on their behalf, was just as different. Here, the three women are so similar yet Kingsolver masterfully captured their far more subtle differences in their dialogue. <br />Garnet, an endearing and aggravating old man, dedicated his later years to finding a way to reestablish the American Chestnut tree, virtually wiped out by logging and blight. A devout Christian, a firm believer in insecticide and all the most inorganic farming techniques of the 50's and 60's is at odds with his neighbor. In Poisonwood Kingsolver's portrayals of the male characters was rather one dimensional, good or bad. Garnet is real, he has his insecurities and his kindness, his ignorance but he is also a formidable expert on raising goats which comes in handy for the Palestinian Lusa<br />This is a true masterpiece, beautifully crafted and written. Excellently researched and informative, and, wow, never forget about the coyotes, the proud mystical predators with their haunted cry and piercing eyes.	2002-10-19
US	49610258	RPA0UVHT23M0N	0195157931	924811848	No God but God: Egypt and the Triumph of Islam	Books	5	11	13	N	Y	Very impressive, but biased	Abdo's work is very impressive and timely. While Abdo has made clear a clear distinction between Orthodox and militant Islam, she seem to have been completely unreceptive to other genuine forms of Islam such as Sufism or moderate Islam. As such, she has adopted a narrow view of Islam, that of Orthodox Islam or Brotherhood's Islam and saw all others as either secularists or militant. The jist of Abdo's findings of the non violent nature of the vast majority of Fundamentalist or Orthodox Moslems was very well presented in her first chapter. Her analysis of the multitude of educated and affluent women willingly taking up the veil was enlightening. Most fascinating was Abdo's contrast of the situation in Iran to that of Egypt, and how the non-political social Islamic movement in Egypt has produced a more religious society than the Political imposed from above Islam of Iran Most disappointing is Abdo's failure to represent the alternate pious views of Islam in Egypt, views that accept the religion but see a separation between Government and religion. Such as separation, contrary to Abdo's reading of history is more than the norm of an Egypt that had separate roles for the Sultan, and the Caliph for centuries	2002-09-28
US	49610258	R1YIFT61LAGTG7	0815606737	494648966	The Cairo House: A Novel (Arab American Writing)	Books	4	17	18	N	Y	Easy to read, but lacking...	The Cairo House is a nice easy to read book. Unlike the several other excellent Arab American autobiographies published over the last few years, Cairo House falls short in offering balanced look at the author's life story, identity and life across three continents. <br />Cairo House comes across short in intellectual maturity with minimal retrospective analysis of events and relationships. Glimpses of the maturity and honesty come across in the later phases of the book, but much of the earlier phases are full of cardboard like characters.<br />Most disturbing for an Arab American is the author failure to move beyond colonial era thinking and rhetoric. Serageldin's attempt at defending Egypt's ruling classes of 30's and 40's is weak, thousands of miles away and several decades do not seem to have open her eyes to the failure of Egypt's elite to move beyond resisting British occupation to building a modern democratic society with some form of upward mobility.<br />The Cairo House however is entertaining, full of interesting tidbits about Egypt and does occasionally shed some light on Serageldin's confusion and loss of identity in an interesting and personable fashion.<br />For me Leila Ahmed's Border Passage, another autobiography of an Egyptian American woman of privileged upbringing is a masterpiece. In the Eye of the Sun by Ahdaf Souif, an Egyptian British woman is another masterpiece in semi fictional work. Nadia, Captive of Hope by Fay Afaf Kanfani is also an excellent work by an Arab American woman and so is Out of Place by Edward Said. Perhaps it takes more than 10 years away to gain enough maturity to be able to offer a true thought provoking autobiography that examines issues of identity and the struggle of belonging as well as a true look at one's own family, shortcomings and indeed life	2002-09-03
US	49610258	RNA35XF9LPA9X	0275956717	345974052	Bint Arab: Arab and Arab American Women in the United States	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fantastic . A look at  Arab Americans	Bint Arab is an excellent study of the history and present of Arab American women dispelling much myth and presenting this wonderful minority in vivid color and 3d.<br />Shaker did an wonderful job presenting an accurate portrayal of the many faces of Arab women in US. The very considerable amount of research into the history of Arab migration in US makes the book a very valuable source on the subject. This coupled with the personal history of Shaker's own family helped bring the history to life. <br />Shakers extensive field work with modern day Arab American women from very diverse backgrounds with no attempt to force any specific viewpoint serves to make Bin Arab a fantastic window on diverse group of Americans	2002-09-03
US	49610258	R1HYJW9QS1RGZQ	1566562279	23299415	War in the Land of Egypt (Emerging Voices)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A sad tale of of a nation  and of despair	A beautifully crafted fiction that illustrates in a vivid way much of Egypt social ills and its charms. Yusuf Al-Qa'id uses a very creative approach and highly unusual one in Egyptian novels to tell the story of a substitution of a poor peasant for the wealthy son of the village mayor. The story takes place in 1973, at a time when conscription lasted for indefinite periods of time and only few years after humiliation of the Egyptian military in 1967. Six different storytellers reveal the details of the story to us from very different perspectives with highly varying levels of empathy with the main character.<br />Al Quid uses extensive symbolism in the story; none of the characters have names except for the main character who was given an unusual generic first name \\"the Egyptian\\". Oppressive social pressures, slaving for family status and appearances, corruption a patriarchal tyranny, city indifference, rich vs poor, gap of opportunity, oppression of authority, helplessness of the common and indeed of all Egyptians are all the strong and recurring themes throughout the book. The symbolism is generally not subtle and at times it feels like the author has tried to cover more social ills than anyone story can do justice. The story is too gripping to lose the reader in the midst of the litany of Egypt's social ills. <br />While the six different story tellers help round out a more complete picture of the central sad tale as a whole, much of the story and many of the characters came across one dimensional, too cardboard like the good, the bad, the greedy, the conscientious, the helpless and so forth. Somehow, to me, it felt something was lacking despite the six different perspectives. All six storytellers painted the one vision the Al Qaid had, they told us different parts of the story, only in few cases did they really show us very different perspectives. While I have immensely enjoyed this novel, this one missing aspect detracted from it for me. The multiple storytellers is such an ideal way to  portray more well rounded characters but was not fully utilized.	2002-08-03
US	49610258	R34E937I84J4Y8	1566563887	842590397	Reel Bad Arabs: How Hollywood Villifies a People	Books	5	9	14	N	N	The New Orientalism	This is an outstanding effort by Jack Shaheen to document in spades the horrors of Anti Arab, Anti Egyptian, Anti Palestinians racism. Jack has tried to be even handed and in doing so has also pointed out the few positive representations of Ancient Egyptian glories, in doing so he has neglected to notice and to note the additional racism that severs any ties between past glories and present day &quot;Arabs&quot; or indeed present day Egyptians.<br />The introduction section of the book makes for excellent reading; one can easily see the making of a neo-Orientalism or the continuation of a horrible racist tradition. Few producers deliberately set out to harm, the majority merely follow the herd, a self-fulfilling prophecy indeed!<br />I wish there was more to the discussion at the introduction, but I suppose without the exhaustive list of movies that Jack suffered through there would have not been the level of legitimacy that this great work has	2002-07-08
US	49610258	R2S1CRN7KDYNUU	0340767278	155768286	Soldiers Return Uk	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sensitive portrayal of the return	Bragg does a fantastic job bringing this little town from the English North West to life. Bragg's treatment of his characters is very sympathetic and well rounded. His slow meandering way of describing people and event serves to let us know the people very well. Bragg does that not just for Sam and Ellen, but for all the characters we come across in this wonderful work, no cardboard here, they are all very real.<br />Sam, an ordinary working class man returns home after 7 years fighting on the Japanese front in Burma. Sam returns clearly suffering what we call now post combat trauma, living through it and fighting it. Many from his town were with him in Burma, many never came back, a close friend is suffering a sever case of trauma. <br />Ellen and Joe lived with Ellen's aunt and uncle during the war. Bragg deals very well with the struggle the family goes through coming together after such a long absence, this at the time of Sam's internal suffering from his memories of the war.<br />For Sam, a major element of his suffering and to a certain extent his resentment is his feeling that his years of war and service have done little to advance his status in England. Eventually Sam decides with a friend to move to Australia to start a new life; the old life was just too painful to endure after all that he had been through. But Ellen, who lost her parents as a child and grew up with her aunt and uncle, is a fixture of this little town. The town means a great deal to her; it is her anchor. Ellen chooses to stay and Sam decides to go.<br />Bragg's sequel, Son of War is even better. Both books are wonderful, very human, very real. Bragg does succeed in taking us completely into his world of 40's England	2002-04-29
US	49610258	R3771BJO1F6CNM	0679767274	966811716	Cairo: The City Victorious	Books	5	3	6	N	Y	Free flowing history &amp; beautiful portrayal	Fantastic Portrayal of Cairo, history and present. Intelligently written with tremendous insight of Egyptian psyche and language. Fascinating account of history focusing on social history, traditions, habits and customs. With Egypt's long history, the social history often takes back seat to major events, battles, temples and achievements.<br />A huge amount of serious research and very savvy analysis of trends produced an excellent work that flows easily like reading an article on the pages of good newspapers yet has the backing of tremendous research of history.<br />Sadly, however, there is an over reliance on work and analysis of discredited Orientalists, but the author's clear love and understanding for Cairo has saved the work from being colored by the arrogance of the racist historians he relied heavily on.	2002-03-09
US	49610258	RSV4ZHESY8410	0765603128	477672500	Nadia, Captive of Hope: Memoir of an Arab Woman (Foremother Legacies)	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Struggling for freedom as the ship sinks	Brilliant book. The story of the struggle of a woman for liberation and equality as her host nation slips from existence at the hands of a formidable enemy.     Detailed review to follow	2002-03-09
US	49610258	R2Y2RI3J5I088T	0679739882	565308593	The Question of Palestine	Books	4	18	28	N	Y	No Answer to the Question!	The Question of Palestine is best viewed in two distinctive parts. Part One deals with the historical narrative, the ideas and events that ultimately led to the establishment of the State of Israel on most of Palestine in 1948. The Second part deals mostly with the Palestinian Resistance post 1948 focusing on the Peace Process and the Camp David Accords.<br />The first part of the book is essentially a narrower version of Edward Said's famous work \\"Orientalism\\". Whereas Orientalism attempted to cover misrepresentation of the history and culture of the mostly Islamic Near East by \\"Orientalists\\" over many centuries, the Question of Palestine focuses on this \\"misrepresentation\\" as it related specifically to Palestine and how it ultimately led to wide support in the west to the Zionist ideas and the creation of a Jewish home land in Palestine. The language and style of this book is certainly easier to follow than the more scholarly Orientalism.<br />A most fascinating and enlightening analysis of the support that Zionism received from progressive writers and thinkers of the late 19th Century act as key foundation in Said's narrative. Said proposes that a culture that totally accepted the views of the Orientalist saw itself as inherently superior to the \\"natives\\" and thus viewed the Zionist project as a brave mission to bring civilization to inferior cultures / places. Said Portrays a Zionism admired as a more committed and liberalizing colonial movement that actually attracted wide admiration. Said offers a Palestinians version of events that led to the Balfour Declaration in 1917 that is entirely backed entirely by contemporaneous authoritative western and Zionist sources, all meticulously analyzed and referenced. <br />Said's Narrative places Zionism squarely within a \\"Western\\" colonial strategy and places the responsibility for the neglect of the rights of the \\"natives\\" on Balfour and Britain, as he cites Balfour's elaborating on the impact of his Declaration, clearly aware of the inevitability of displacement of the \\"natives\\". While Said made a very strong case for the historical responsibility of Britain towards the Palestinians, he did not seem to develop his ideas into any form of political agenda towards Britain<br />Said's account suggests that the transformation of Zionism from a secular colonial movement to one that aims to appeal to religious Jews caused considerable friction within the movement with often strong opposition from the original founders to any action or people who would negatively impact the \\"liberalizing\\" \\"pioneering\\" image of the movement, the image that idealized the movement to the liberals of the late 19th Century.<br />Overall, the first part of the book, which is nearly two thirds of it is well argued and well referenced and indeed as said earlier builds on the huge amounts of work Said had done in Orientalism. While Said unabashedly acknowledged at the start of the book his desire to present the whole \\"Question\\" from a Palestinian perspective, he hardly relied on Palestinians sources and based his entire narrative on western & Zionist sources. In doing so he gave him self the freedom to offer a partisan version of history yet succeeded in making it appear as an exhaustive and balanced review that makes his case very well and convincingly.<br />The second part of the book aimed primarily at the history of the struggle between the state of Israel and the PLO and the Palestinian people. Here, Said was offering a political commentary of events that he personally has witnessed first hand or indeed participated or took part in. Said's usual rigorous review and analysis of sources was naturally absent. His views of the PLO appeared largely romantic and he seemed to find excuses for its many failings. His disagreements with Sadat and the Egyptian position on Camp David totally failed to see the Egyptian Israeli dispute as a distinct (yet related) conflict to the Palestinian Israeli conflict. Said's tendency to overlook the different historical narratives within the middle east in Orientalism carried over into his analysis of the contemporarily Middle Eastern political affairs. <br />Edward Said's Question of Palestine is an excellent source for understanding the very sad history of the Palestinians and their blight. His inability to see an intellectually acceptable way forward, his rejection of Camp David and the Oslo Peace Process reflect both his intellectual honesty and political naiveté. Said's more recent writings in The Nation and Al Ahram weekly seem to reflect some changes his views. It is however Ironic that the failure of the peace process that we witness now in 2002 may actually vindicate some of Said's views of Oslo and the whole concept of a \\"two states\\" solution.<br />I have awarded this book \\"4 stars\\" based on the strength of the first part. The Second Part is 1 - 2 stars at best!	2002-01-30
US	49610258	R2WF3N67WQS4MW	039474067X	254566048	Orientalism	Books	5	382	440	N	Y	Anti Essentialism &amp; Controversial	This book and Edward Said in general seem capable of generating such intense controversy. Many reviewers of this book seem to forget actually to review the work and focus on attacking Edward Said as a person, many others still forget to review the book and proceed to speak for Palestinian rights and the negative western attitudes of Islam. I will attempt to present an actual review of this book based on MY own reading of it.<br />In Orientalism, Said sets about dismantling the study of the &quot;orient&quot; in general with primary focus on the Islamic Near East. Said argues that concepts such as the Orient, Islam, the Arabs, etc. are too vast to be grouped together and presented as one coherent whole, encompassing all there is to know about the subject. Said bases his view on the shear width and breadth of the subject, the inherent bias of conflicting cultures and more recently the role of the Orientalism in colonialism. It is indeed difficult to attempt to represent a book that is so focused on anti essentialism.<br />Said's research of western / occidental discourse was very thorough indeed and he does illustrate through repeated examples how misinformation sufficiently repeated can become accepted academic work. Said also presents an analysis of the causes and motives and theorizes about his findings. A lengthy and a times tedious discussion of the origins of Orientalism is rather repetitive and hard to follow for a non specialist like me.<br />Edward Said however seem to have fallen in the same trap he attributes to Orientalism, he has not attempted to explore Arab writings of the periods he discussed nor has he attempted to present (possibly even read) work by Egyptian and Arab historians of the periods he was addressing save for work carried out in the west and within western universities. In doing so, Said fails to see how the modern and contemporary &quot;orient&quot; sees itself through primarily &quot;oriental&quot; eyes such as Ibn Khaldoun, Al Maqrizi and also through the writings of orientalists like Lane. Said also fails to address the work carried out by orientalists based on many manuscripts of Orientals. <br />I particularly enjoyed Said's analysis of the strong ties that Orientalism has with power and colonialism. Said analysis of the diverging development of the British and French practice based on the latter's limited success as a colonial power was very enjoyable and very well thought out. The Orientalism Today and indeed the Afterwards section are also very informative and as these were more familiar areas for Said his presentation of ideas and thoughts came across more clearly and the writing was far less tedious than the earlier parts of the book.<br />Orientalism is not an easy read, it will challenge many established views, indeed it has already with a fair degree of success led to changes in the way the Near East is studied. To me, most of all I see this as a book that offers in part a largely coherent explanation for the on-going misunderstanding between the West and the Near East and in Islam. And while Occidentalism does not exist as a field of study in a place like Egypt per se, Said fails to see that the west is viewed largely in terms of its wealth, promiscuous habits, hypocrisy and anti Islam and thus fails to see it as 2 way street, albeit with unequal power.<br />This is by no means a the definitive correction of the history of the Middle East or Near Orient, it is however a very legitimate and serious study of a field of study that no doubt has a lot to answer for!	2001-10-27
US	49610258	R1SBH9LCBZJ0VC	0435909126	403906	Distant View of a Minaret and Other Stories (African Writers Series No. 271)	Books	5	3	4	N	Y	Tales of Submission, Struggle &amp; Death	This is a remarkable collection of short stories from Egypts urban and peasant societies. Alifa Rifaat stories are full of raw emotion and overwhelming sense of the hopelessness of the human experience. Rifaat is an extraordinarily gifted writer with a fresh approach and a remarkable ability to transplant us completely in just a few paragraphs to totally different worlds, to the lives of the very ordinary.<br />The recurring themes of this collection of short stories are sexual frustration, pervasive cultural pressures and death. The loneliness and emptiness of the lives of Egyptian women from every class and background are, in particular, well portrayed in an honest and bare fashion. Each and every story in this collection stood out for me and forced me to reflect on the lives of their imperfect characters. The melancholy that dominates the style is so reminiscent of Annie Proulxs Close Range; with ordinary sad lives racing at breakneck pace from hope to the inevitable acceptance of   no fulfillment. Rifaats characters, however, illustrate quiet perseverance along with their submission to their fate in a uniquely Egyptian way.<br />Rifaat is a very sensitive writer capable of conveying so much emotion and graphic detail with very few words. In the  The Flat in Nakshabendi Street Rifaat talks of an elderly Cairo spinster who has nothing left in life to do but attend funerals and pick on others, she captures the image so well Everyone else lived in hope yet her own life was a struggle to ensure that the present routine continued forever.<br />In The Long Night of Winter Rifaat starts with an exceptional setting of the scene, a wife that knows of the never ending infidelity of her husband, In an instant between sleep and wakefulness, an instant outside the bounds of time, that gave the sensation of being eternal, the sounds of night, like slippery fishes passing through the mesh of a net, registered themselves on Zennoubas hearing, filtering gradually into her awakening consciousness: the machine like croaking of frogs and the barking of dogs in the fields answered by the dogs of the village on the other bank in a never-ending exchange of information in some code language. This first paragraph is typical of Rifaat approach to seducing the reader to relating to and advocating for her characters.<br />It was unfortunate that Johnson-Davis chose to use Allah in lieu of God in the English translation, apart from that the translation comes across faithful to the original, with thoughtful and beautiful often lyrical prose.	2001-10-10
US	49610258	RF64SDWUQZDU9	0385335660	238997941	Kissing in Manhattan	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Intelligent, fresh &amp; easy read	This is a very nice collection of short stories full of interesting and controversial characters. David Schickler's style is intelligent and the pace is fast. The various characters are never fully developed, but Schickler provides just enough to let the imagination take over. <br />Schickler may have intended this work to appear more like a portrayal of the lives and times of various people living in the same building in New York. Stories of love, sex, crime, hate, depression, success, failure and just about everything else; a story of life in Manhattan in 2001. <br />These short stories are fresh and clever enough in their own right without having to share the tale of the Preemption Building and its old Otis elevator. The attempt to present a more unifying whole did not work particularly well for me and I disliked the overly contrived approach with which many of the characters appeared in different stories. I would have liked the stories better without the attempt to tie them together.<br />Overall, this is a great easy read that will probably win a good share of 2001 book honors, enjoy!	2001-10-03
US	49610258	R3LUL2CXE79CFV	0875210163	222489308	Business Valuation Manual - Unlocking The Value Of Your Business : How to increase it, measure it, and negotiate an actual sale price.	Books	3	19	21	N	Y	Good Place to Start !	This is an easy to read and easy to understand book on a most difficult subject. The approach is mainly aimed at non-specialist business owners contemplating the idea of selling their business and to a lesser extent buying a business. The approach of the book is very balanced, it truly aims to inform the reader rather than to generate a bias to follow one set course or another. The one, possibly important, failing of Horn is his implicit suggestion that a &quot;Do It Yourself&quot; approach is really practical or realistic in most cases. This however, is a very useful guide in understanding the subject and the lingo. It is the best I have seen for a non-specialist and it does not talk down to the reader	2001-08-24
US	49610258	R16LBNXUXUHZCE	0375756140	949337727	The Cost of Living	Books	5	13	17	N	Y	Brave &amp; Universal -  not just for Indians!	Arundhati Roy has a wonderful way of writing. This woman could write about absolutely anything at all and I think I will still enjoy it. She has a naturally earnest free flowing poetic yet precise language. She has the ability to choose her words so well as to get the exact picture or impression she wants us to see. Truly she paints with her words.<br />Roy used her amazing writing skills and sensitivity so very well in her fantastic work, The God of Small Things. Here she uses the same skills and more aiming primarily at her own people asking them to re-examine 2 strongly held views. As non-Indian I thoroughly enjoyed both essays of this book.<br />The first essay deals with the construction of river dams in India since the independence in 1947. Roy set about in a very systematic way to establish the true cost of the dams in terms of human suffering. She focused on one project in particular but her research was wide ranging and indeed she had to dig into several completed projects to establish true benefits and costs. Roy's central message is that the price paid by an oppressed native minority is way too high and the alleged benefits to India are low. Where this essay is truly universal, at least applicable to so many third world countries in the post colonial era, is in its research for a definition for her own country, identity and common good and modes of opposition to this common good! Roy was also highly unimpressed with the western approach to 3rd world development projects but her approach was a times too general and sweeping.<br />The Second article, probably far more universal, is the nuclear weapons article. Roy's analysis of the policies of the Congress party and the BJP nationalists leading to the 1998 explosions shows great insight and clarity of mind. She categorically opposes the bomb as weapon of peace and she totally rejects the overwhelming support of her people for the bomb and the Indian nuclear tests.  Having traveled to India shortly after theIndian and Pakistani explosions I was horrified with the attitude of \\"our bomb was better than theirs\\" and this is the first work that I personally have seen that takes on this subject with such force. Roy's opposition leaves no prisoners behind. It is hard to overstate the courage of Roy on this issue given the level of tension between Hindu India and Islam within India itself and across the borders.<br />I strongly recommend this wonderfully written book to anyone interested in issues related to regional conflicts and postcolonial development.	2001-08-16
US	49610258	R1YD173D83U5PT	0679735879	628163864	The Unconsoled	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Great absurd writing -- really absurd	If you are looking for a neat story line, stop reading here and go on to something else. This is a mix of the absurd, surrealistic, farcical, and the weird and is absolutely brilliant. It is a gripping in an unusual way. 2 pages into this you are completely under the mercy of Kazuo Ishiguro. By then you should have given up on normal \\"logic\\" and known that you are proceeding at your own risk.<br />Talented pianist Ryder, an Englishman, arrives at this is absurd Central Western European City that sounds like an absurd mix of a little Bavarian city with Cairo or Istanbul. A chaotic place, obsessed with its own standing and is totally incoherent. Ryder himself is as confused as anything, we are confused completely from the beginning and read all 500+ pages hoping that Ishiguro will explain to us something about the peculiar connection Ryder has with this place. Ishiguro gives us useless tidbits along the way that keep us looking (in vain) for more.<br />The style, flow and the language are absolutely fantastic. It is easy to actually picture most (not all) of the individual situations, and just as you are beginning to make sense of it, wham! Ryder moves on to another situation. The writing is so good, so you get into it again, and Bam Wham, here you go again into a whole different direction. The transition is almost seamless though. And the absurdity is quickly woven into the whole story, so you buy it.<br />This is a wonderful book that is truly entertaining, and is so very imaginative. <br />How Ishiguro managed to keep all this together is remarkable, well maybe he never even bothered!<br />Please save yourself masses of infuriation and anger if you don't like ABSURD.	2001-06-19
US	49610258	R131CIUUG3XC94	0375703799	921210574	No Shame in My Game: The Working Poor in the Inner City	Books	5	34	35	N	N	No Shame in This Game - Must Read	This is a hands-on, front line study of America's working poor, a subject so infrequently covered in news media, with gross misunderstandings and negative stereotypes. Katherine Newman and a group of her graduate students from Columbia University spent years learning virtually ALL there is to know about the lives of workers in a fast food burger chain in Harlem in New York City. Through Newman's very accessible language we get to understand who these workers really are, what makes them settle for the lowest of ranks in the American Society, and what motivates them to go and find and keep these jobs.<br />Newman's very interesting approach is to take us into the lives of her \\"subjects\\", we get to know how and with whom do they live, who do they befriend and socialize with, how did they get their jobs and so much more. Relatively early on Newman makes a very clear point; the lives of the welfare poor and the working poor is so intertwined, and changes in welfare laws particularly those related to families with dependent children can make it virtually impossible for the working poor to carry on working. This conclusion emerges so very clearly as we get to know working poor with children whose ONLY possible childcare option is a welfare receiving relative looking after the family's young.<br />Newman deals very effectively with the cultural misconceptions about the fast food industry, reading this book you can no longer think of hamburger flippers as unskilled underachievers. Often these are brave people who have rejected the easy money drug culture, or people who have had to compete very hard to get low paying low status employment, or have to travel over an hour each way and leave young children behind. And these are jobs that require far more skill in operating equipment, planning and dealing with difficult people on daily basis than many higher paid higher status jobs. When Newman got into the details of the what these jobs really entail, I found myself thinking ofmuch higher status jobs as being lower skilled and these jobs and the people who hold them specially in the inner city, where these are real jobs not pocket money generators, as truly worthy of respect.<br />Newman work covered a whole range of topics affecting the working poor including a great deal on the values of the working poor, these she found to be so \\"mainstream\\" indeed often close to conservative. Those at the bottom of the heap who put up with so much for so little had little tolerance for the do-nothing swindlers, but they did have a high level of tolerance for people otherwise. No Shame in My Game also deals extensively with education, what it means for the working poor and how the employers in the fast food industry encourage it. Indeed we see an alternate culture that encourages achievement is formed around the workplace.<br />The book also deals with the issues of race, within Harlem along with few examples from the wider world outside of it. We see clear evidence of patterns of discrimination based both on race and on birth place, with foreign born Hispanics fairing best despite of language handicaps and black Americans worst, while mainland US born Hispanics ranked in the middle. Newman also dealt with the prospects for advancement and with the issues of role models at some length.<br />As I read the book, I often wondered about two issues that appear to a large extent self inflicted, the Teen-age pregnancy was for me an obvious issue. Surely, life would be simpler and potential for advancement would be greater for young women who avoided this trap. Newman dealt with this to some extent by presenting research evidence of young poor women making a conscious decision of avoiding pregnancy when they have a clear path laid ahead of them towards education and attractive employment.  Newman also touched on the possibility that teenage pregnancy is related in part to desire to have children at an early enough age to be able to get help from mothers and other relatives; with single parent family being the norm, and with the poor ailing and dying at young age. The second issue was mobility, with so many more jobs available in the suburbs and indeed with unemployment at record lows, why stay in Harlem? As I read on a clearer picture emerges of the society many of the working poor really inhabit. There are, contrary to the popular belief and indeed to mainstream America, there are very strong family links and neighborhood links. These links become vital for the poor with children who need looking after and for immigrants who cluster in apartment ghettos and pool resources in every conceivable way. <br />The last part of No Shame in My Game presents recommendations for dealing with the urban working poor. There are many interesting new ideas and discussions related to projects tried successfully in other parts of the country. Most of the ideas are presented in a logical and politically neutral fashion that is truly helpful, with significant emphasis being placed on business-school-government programs. A suggestion for raising minimum wage is presented along with the other ideas; it is hard to see how that may help even the sample of the working poor this book focused on, as these working poor live, earn money and spend it mostly in their poor community, and those wonderful employers in the fast food industry, operating on very thin margins, will be forced to either raise prices or reduce labor. <br />Overall I found No Shame in My Game a wonderful book, full of a great deal of insight, it is so well searched and presented. Newman's language and approach are appealing and the way she builds her arguments and reach conclusion comes across very logical and persuasive. While the recommendations chapter of the book could be extended to a whole book in its own right, and the issues involved are complex and difficult, I felt that additional recommendations on the issues of mobility, teen parenting and race would have been helpful.	2001-06-06
US	49610258	R3D3IUHQBKQ4FL	0736645209	785940945	The Hours	Books	5	0	1	N	Y	Sad, thought provoking & beautifully written	It's hard to do The Hours justice in a review. Imagine a multi generation human drama of John Irving, but flawless and without contradictions in just over 200 pages. Reading this meticulously researched and well-contrived novel, you get the distinct impression that Michael Cunningham had the whole concept laid out in front of him, before he started writing. It hangs together so well, in a way too perfect at times and in the process it lacks the free flowing feel of the likes of Annie Proulx and Barbara Kingslover.<br />The main story in the Hours is that of Clarissa and Richard, who were close friends and lovers in their youth and remained best friends to the present day when we see them in New York city in their early fifties. They are now both gay, and nearly all the characters that we come across in the present day part of the novel are gay and lesbian. <br />Intertwined with the present day Clarissa are the lives of Laura Brown in post WWII Los Angeles suburb and Virginia Wolf in England in the early 20's. Laura and Virginia are both suffocating in their ordinary comfortable lives, trapped in straight marriages. They both love and care for their husbands and families but so yearn to free themselves from their ordinary lives. Both are obsessed with the passing of the hours, time and death, both see secret pleasurable attraction in other women.<br />Cunningham language and style are very enjoyable. He takes a small object and describes in great detail, \\"Virginia can see that the bird is laid on the grass compactly, its wings folded up against its body. She knows it has died already in Quentin's palms. It seems to have wanted to make the smallest possible package of itself. Its eye, a perfect black bead is open and its gray feet, larger than you'd expect them to be, are curled in on themselves. It could be a kind of a hat, it could be the missing link between millinery and death.\\" Cunningham gets you to visualize and sense a scenery or a situation, then moves takesyou inside his characters \\" She (Virginia) would like to lie down in its place. No denying it she would like that. Vanessa and Julian can go on about their business, their tea and travels, while she Virginia, a bird sized Virginia, lets herself metamorphose from an angular difficult woman into an ornament on a hat, foolish, uncaring thing.\\"<br />Of the four primary relationships in The Hours, Virginia & Leonard, Laura & Dan, Clarissa & Richard and Clarissa & Sally, we only get a 2 sided view once. We enter Sally's mind and witness her true care and affection for Clarissa. With all of the other \\"couples\\" we come across, primary or secondary, gay or straight, the relationships are unhappy and unfulfilled. We are never really clear on Clarissa, would she have wanted Richard more had he not been gay, is she as devoted to Sally, many questions remain unanswered, she remains a bit of a mystery, like the original Mrs. Dalloway.<br />You don't have to read Virginia Wolf's \\"Mrs. Dalloway\\" to appreciate this book fully. You don't even need to have read any work by Virginia Wolf to enjoy, get into and be touched by The Hours. The Hours will make you want to read Virginia Wolf and the best place to start is The Voyage Out, her first book. Enjoy!	2001-04-21
US	49610258	R1QBA1P2BYMCFC	0805208534	433715283	Enemy in the Promised Land: An Egyptian Woman's Journey into Israel	Books	5	16	17	N	Y	A brave personal quest, intelligent and honest	I have so thoroughly enjoyed reading this book it was difficult to put it down until the very last word. <br />This is the story of a young Egyptian Moslem woman, from a very wealthy family who became obsessed with Israel. She left her postgraduate studies at Harvard and went to Israel for a six-week visit that lasted three years. This all happened in the mid 70's before Sadat's visit to Jerusalem and Egypt's peace with Israel.<br />Sana Hassan delved into numerous aspects of Israeli society. She lived on traditional Kibbutz and on \\"progressive\\" Kibbutz; she lived amongst new immigrants from the former Soviet Union and elsewhere learning Hebrew, Judaism and life in Israel, she went through the process of how Israel receive new arrivals. She lived in ordinary apartments in Tel Aviv and amongst the cultural elites in Jerusalem. She also managed to pass herself as a Jew and worked in Israeli factories and restaurants and allowed herself to be recruited into religious orthodox ways. Sana Hassan managed to get herself everywhere imaginable in Israel and the occupied territories. <br />Sana succeeded in interacting with every possible segment of Israeli Society, politically, culturally, religiously and ethnically. From tea with Golda Meir at her house, lunch with Begin at the Knesset, and dinner with The Sharons all the way to meetings with pimps and prostitute as part of her volunteer work as a social worker. She managed to see more of Israel, perhaps than the vast majority of Israelis ever will. <br />The portrayal of the Israeli society is that of a country full of contradictions and racist attitudes. We see the lowly state of Eastern Jews and an almost pervasive hierarchy based solely on racial origin and beliefs. She portrays the \\"subhuman\\" untouchable type status of the vast majority of the Israeli Arabs and the West Bank Palestinians. She portrays an Israel full of push and shove, of vulgar, inconsiderate people with unabashed racism.<br />Sana Hassan also portraysan idealism, work ethic, warmth of ordinary people, capacity to love and learn and so much generosity. And yet, we see this hug mental barrier against admission or acceptance of the injustice befallen the Palestinians.<br />We are also treated to two love affairs of Sana Hassan, one with a married Israeli army officer and a very passionate affair with another young woman who was her roommate at the progressive Kibbutz. I puzzled for days over Sana Hassan's inclusion of these two stories, which undoubtedly would have been very controversial in her conservative home country. An affair with a married officer and a Lesbian episode would undoubtedly dilute Sana Hassan's message of peace. After years of condemnation in Egypt, Sana Hassan was finally rehabilitated, why did she choose to shock again and upset sensibilities?<br />Sana Hassan quest for peace was always personal, coming out of her inquisitive nature about Israel and things Jewish. From the days of her childhood when she was told off playing with an Israeli boy while on an Austrian holiday, from the unquestioning one sided media of Egypt, it was always a personal endeavor, she never pretended it to be on behalf of anyone else. I suspect for Sana Hassan, her on honesty and integrity were more important than acceptance and continued rehabilitation in conservative Egypt. She must have felt that she could not write about her experience in Israel without her affairs. Her recount of these stories certainly enriches the book and helps us understand her degree of assimilation and acceptance of the unthinkable.<br />Sana Hassan developed an in-depth understanding of Zionism, history, thought and present day attitudes. She presented the process with which she seemed apparently unable to reconcile her acceptance of Israel's right to exist, with Israel's \\"right\\" to be Zionist. She presented herself throughout the book as an unwavering supporter of Palestinian rights. Yet, she admitted to being more troubled by her army officer connections to racist South Africa than his career as an IDF officer. She also seemed throughout the book willing to accept the possibility that her lover was planted by the intelligence service.<br />With so much going on in her three years of Israel, you would expect a book written in simple straight forward story telling or even text style. That is not the case at all, Enemy In The Promised Land is so beautifully written. Sana Hassan is capable of great prose and lyrical descriptions of scenery, experiences and emotions, and most of all, of people. Her style comes across similar to the early work of Virginia Wolf, at times it seemed like she is even using similar words and phrases. <br />This is not a straight forward book. It is the sort of book that will truly makes no one happy. It is a confusing book. If you allow yourself the benefit of \\"learning\\" while reading it, it may shake many established beliefs and strongly held opinions.<br />Having read this book, I am absolutely certain of one thing. I will never never eat at the King David Hotel in Jerusalem, the standards of hygiene at the restaurant were appallingly low. On most other issues, I am a lot less certain.	2001-04-13
US	49610258	R3BRRH6OE5C3MV	0375709118	373068284	In the Pond	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A weeker version of Waiting	In the Pond<br />This is another fascinating Ha Jin book. If you have already read Waiting and liked it, you will like this one too, except it is not as lyrical in its style. Also the main character is certainly not spineless as in Waiting, so you tend to root for him.<br />As in Waiting, In the Pond is so full of the almost comical behavior of the small time communist leaders in Cultural Revolution China. The brain washed society come across so natural and almost innocent.<br />In contrast to Waiting, In the Pond, is faster paced and much more full of action. Perhaps the reduced amount of reflection and the faster pace is what made the language less captivating than Waiting.<br />Enjoy!	2001-03-11
US	49610258	R34RI3HXH8OD0G	0385491271	553611731	I Sweep the Sun Off Rooftops	Books	4	7	7	N	Y	Patchy, ranging from average to excellent	This is a fascinating collection of short stories. Nearly all are very readable without once checking how many pages you have left.<br />The first few stories depend primarily on the plot, and to an extent the element of surprise or shock. Don't read reviews that take you step by step into every story. You as a reader can never really guess where Hanan Al Sheikh is going with her plot, until all of a sudden, wham here it is, a surprise, and sure enough it does flow. I felt these were very clever but generally not may favorite.<br />Several stories were not as dependent on the element of surprise and were truly enjoyable portrayal of people, feelings, scenery and situations. Some of these especially those of a Lebanese Woman in London having fled the Civil war and another of a Lebanese woman from London visiting Egypt were very well done. Hanan Al Sheikh still managed to insert a surprising end, but you could enjoy both stories regardless of the ending.<br />I am unsure if the author insistence on a clever plot for her short stories is part of the Arabic tradition of the plot, or just her own personal style. I personally would have liked it more if she just let her imagination roam, paint a situation without necessarily having to be obsessed with l Arabic Literature tradition of \\"habekah\\"<br />A relatively long story of a Danish missionary worker to Yemen was my least favorite, even though I still enjoyed it. In general I felt the author was a much better and more genuine portraying Arab woman.<br />Hanan Al Sheikh portrayal of life in Egypt, Lebanon, and Yemen and of immigrant life in UK and Africa came across vivid. She dealt with many difficult and up to the last 15 years or so taboo issues.<br />The translation was superb, often when reading translated work, it is hard to appreciate intelligent and sensitive prose. Here that was not the case at all, in fact it is very difficult to conceive of some of the stories as translated work at all.<br />Overall I highly recommend this collection of short stories. If you do like this book, you will definitely enjoy Sana Hassan, Leila Ahmed and Ahdaf Souief, who..., unlike Hanan Al Sheikh, write in English.	2001-03-02
US	49610258	R18EW6Q9QN1SVD	0156011042	736668502	East of the Mountains	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Great Prose �.way too much sage!	Like Snow Falling on Cider, this is such a beautifully written book, long lyrical descriptions of scenes and emotions. Much of the weakness of this story is in the slow meandering \\"plot\\" in comparison to the faster paced drama of Snow Falling.<br />With so many excellent reviews of this book, I would just say, I enjoyed the prose a great deal, found it a bit slow at times, but overall a good read	2001-01-28
US	49610258	RNZC7XRPUFZP8	0679436154	851243413	The Diagnosis: A Novel	Books	4	10	13	N	N	Very readable, dark, witty and thought provoking �	This is a book that is so easy to read and very hard to put down.  Bill Chalmers, the main character, is an upcoming junior partner, in a very modern Boston technology company. Bill seemingly has it all, family, suburban house, money, career etc.<br />Suddenly Bill Chalmers encounters progressively bad and mysterious health problems. A weird episode at the hospital emergency ward is the weakest part of the book. Two physicians, with no proper authority and without following any sort of a standard protocol, experiment on Chalmers.  Many critics and reviewers have quite rightly, slammed this part as far-fetched and comically unrealistic. However, it does not really detract from the over all book and at times it may even add a little suspense as the search for a diagnosis moves on.<br />E-mails and Instant Messages, and the way they have totally affected everyday life for a part of the American society is so well portrayed. In fact, after your read Lightman's Diagnosis, books that deal with the same type of people in 2001 USA seem to be missing out on parts of their lives. From their on line life, we get to know more about Bill's family. The closeness Bill and his son share in real life is also extended to their on line life, <br />Melissa, who mostly stays by Bill through his illness, is full of the stereotypical affluent suburban wife contradictions. On line affair with a stranger, runs a business that has no hope of making money, yet annoys Bill with the constant change in his home furniture and a sense of climbing up the social ladder along with an on going tension with her Southern roots. Melissa's relationship with the son was practically non-existent in the book. In all, Lightman did not really want us to like her much.<br />We also get to meet some of Bill's work colleagues neighbors, old school friend, his mother and sister in law. This all takes place as Bill's condition deteriorates. Lightman's portrayal's of Bill's doctor and shrink and Bill's dealings withthe whole health care world were fascinating and well done.  You do really get a very clear sense of the world Bill comes from and lives in.<br />A major part of the book, perhaps over a quarter of it, is an ancient Greek story fictionalized by Lightman. This is so well written and gripping in its own right. It takes us to a whole different world with Socrates and his contemporaries.  The symbolic link between the two stories is not immediately obvious; it does not jump out at you.  The Greek tale can really provoke lots of thoughts, the self assured Athens of Socrates days does in ways compare with our own self assured society of 2001, or does it not? Is Chalmers more of Socrates rejecting the society by his body then by his brain too, or is he more the society itself. You can, if you wish, enjoy yourself seeking out the symbolism, or just ignore it and enjoy a short Greek tragedy within a contemporary \\"hub\\" tragedy!<br />As Chalmers condition deteriorated, he spent more time reflecting on little things. A most beautiful, yet sad, part of the book is Chalmers getting obsessed with a leaf. Chalmers entertains himself for hours tracing leafs. Lightman does a very convincing job in presenting the mind of man gradually coming to terms with the hopelessness of his position, eventually losing hope.<br />The quotes from Norman Mailer and Annie Proulx on the back cover of this book are so very accurate, enjoy!	2001-01-27
US	49610258	R1ZU708UD60F8U	0743400259	913599983	An American Life	Books	4	9	11	N	N	What you would expect ..modest, touching and so very Reagan	Much of the first part of the book is devoted to Ronald Reagan's humble beginnings. The story is told in a matter of fact non-pretentious manner, not overly detailed.<br />This is very enjoyable book that sheds tremendous light on the man that shaped much of the world's political history in the last quarter of the 20th century.<br />It is so nice to read an autobiography that is very human and is neither self-indulgent nor full of self-righteousness. This book is just like the man himself, plain, full of modesty and good humor and has reasonably clear ideas about what it stands for just like the man, like him or hate him, you knew where he stood!<br />Enjoy .. This reads better now than it did 10 years ago!	2001-01-19
US	49610258	R1BNECUWJGV7M8	1856496791	500938748	A Daughter of Isis: The Autobiography of Nawal El Saadawi	Books	2	9	16	N	Y	Contrived, pretentious and so very badly translated	This is a strange book. It was obviously written in Arabic originally but aiming almost exclusively at a western readership. The translator, El Sadawi's husband had the role of translating the book and increasing its appeal for a western audience.<br />I found the first third of the book dreadfully boring and repetitive. The first page was gripping then it went downhill fast. El Sadawi, an ultra leftist spends most of the first third of the book trying to establish working class connections. That despite of her family's land owning origins and indeed her grandfather's aristocratic heritage and even a title too! <br />El Sadawi along with Doris Lansing (on the back cover) try to have us believe that she came from such a background that would have married her off at the age of 10 and discriminated so much against her. While I don't for a minute suggest that gender discrimination is not a serious issue in Egypt, then and now. The story as told by El Sadawi appears so contrived, exaggerated and mostly made up. It is hard to believe a father so liberal as to send his daughter to middle and high school away in Cairo in the big city, a father who was the inspector of education, who washed dishes (in 1930's Egypt) from a quasi-aristocratic family considering marrying off his daughter to the \\"wrong\\" class let alone at that age. Even if that was the case, what happened to him to turn him into the modern father who then goes on to send his daughter to Cairo alone!<br />The book gets less painful to read as things move on a bit and Nawal goes to Cairo. Here we have an ungrateful bitter human being who has nothing good to say about anyone. The self-righteousness is nauseating. Her rich aunt's house was no good, her poor uncle's house was also no good, and the schools were no good. You get the impression of the whole world actually trying to help Nawal, yet she has not a good word to say about any of it.<br />There are occasional parts of the book that are really interesting, very human and / or down right funny. The life of the various aunts in Cairo and their fates was well written and moving.<br />The treatment of religion was very superficial. El sadawi lashed out on Christianity and Judaism, but saved most of her venom for Islam. El Sadawi presents mostly interpretations of her poorly educated paternal grand mother as the definition of Islam then proceeds to attack them. In doing so, one never really understand her views as a mature person, but only senses her anger at the religion. Parts of the Quran quoted in the book were so badly translated and the interpretation was so poor and narrow to almost feel like a propaganda rag.<br />The pretensions continue all the way through the book. We are expected to sympathize with the El Sadawi's family following their move to Cairo. Here we have a family of nine kids with her attending the expensive medical school in the middle of World War II and complaining about her diet of daily meat sandwiches!!! And throwing them away! Yet poor family is being discriminated against because of the father being very clean and above politics. And in 1943, right in the middle of Hitler's atrocities, her only thought towards the Jews is hate! What a shame!<br />This book is doubly irritating because of the huge amount of mistakes, editorial inconsistencies and very intrusive translation. The book was obviously written in Classical Arabic, but Egyptian Arabic was used in quoted dialogue. The translator, revealing more lofty origins, felt the need to apologize for the use Egyptian Arabic, the sopken language of Egyptians, and to explain the origin of the various Egyptian words. Also the translator felt the need to translate place names right in the middle of the text such as Koberi Al Lemon, being Lemon Bridge, he could have used either. Whenever it got to the Quran, the author was really ignorant and offensive, so a chapter in the Quran (Yassin's) he dismissively says it is a part that is meant to chase the evilaway, rather than what it is.<br />The translator also confuses us greatly with inconsistencies, we have Hegaz, the area where Mecca is and we also have setti el hajja! We have \\"el\\" for \\"the\\" in the author's name and sometimes in other parts of the book, but he often opts for the more Classical Arabic sounding \\"al\\". We have the feast after Ramadan defined as the Sacrifice feast.<br />There is no doubt that the author and the translator anger at the circumstances that led them into exile away from Egypt largely colored the book. It is a shame that she was unable to stay safely in Egypt holding and defending her views, albeit misguided. It is ironic though that her host, Duke University, didn't escape attack even though it was a minor attack against its namesake.<br />I was so pleased to get to the end of the book so I can start reading something else. Finally! Thankfully the next book was Alan Lightman's Diagnosis so I now enjoy reading again!	2001-01-18
US	49610258	R2FY2RGGQV6AO3	1566563364	924907207	Wild Thorns (Interlink World Fiction)	Books	4	31	32	N	Y	A vivid tale of a polarized society under occupation	The events of this book take place in the Israeli occupied West Bank in the early 1970's, about 5 years after the Six Day War of 1967.  Usama, a young Palestinian returns to his homeland after few years of working abroad.  The return story includes tales of humiliation at the border crossing. Usama is shocked by the changes around him, he came back to fight the occupation and struggles with the idea that Adil, his cousin and best friend has actually given up the family farm and is working as a laborer in Israel proper, \\"inside\\".  The reality of his people under the occupation, eating \\"their\\" bread, working in \\"their\\" factories and learning \\"their\\" words was incomprehensible to him.<br />The way Sahar Khalifeh presented the changes in the Palestinian society during the first few years of the occupation was very illuminating and original.  Here we see a highly polarized society, the Palestinians working abroad in the oil states, the Palestinians working \\"inside\\", the \\"intellectuals\\", the upper and middle classes, of whom, some \\"collaborated\\" and others refused to.  Tremendous tensions described in a very real and human way, with little attempt to support one group of Palestinians over another. <br />Adil, is by far the most sympathetic character in the novel.  He works tirelessly to support his family; he does however resent his father, and gets drunk to wash it all away.  A classic war of the classes, the father fights by talking to western media, would never approve of his son working \\"inside\\" yet he does not approve of Usama or his youngest son breaking the laws of the Israeli occupation. Adil, the son, works diligently to improve the condition of fellow laborers and fights for their rights within the Israeli law. <br />Sahar Khalifeh does a wonderful job describing in very vivid language the everyday life of a neighborhood. Scenes from the markets, cafes, street vendors, hustle bustle and fear. Scenes of small dwellings bursting at the seams and then add a curfewon top of that. There are also the scenes of the polarization disappearing and the whole neighborhood shouting slogans in unison. There is also Usama's mother, an endearing old woman who has her own dreams for her son; dreams that have nothing to do with occupation or politics.<br />We are treated to 2 accounts of experience in an Israeli jail. Basil, Adil's younger brother is welcomed by the members of the resistance and accepted into their ranks. A friend of Adil, who also ended up in prison, was also eventually welcome. His cell was very different though.  Ruled by another Adil, a socialist, who administered justice and education but lacked in sympathy, warmth and understanding; not like the real Adil.  <br />The real Adil is portrayed simply as a good human being, who helped fellow Palestinians in real and tangible ways. Adil was selfless, generous, modest and genuinely caring, that was his only agenda.  But at times, we think Adel is the way he is, out of hopelessness, he knows Palestine is lost, no longer worth fighting for, but he can make the lives of those around him less unbearable.  And he gets drunk to wash it all away.  I am not sure if that is the Adil that Sahar Khalifeh set out to create, but he certainly comes across like that.<br />While this clearly is a partisan, pro Palestinian and anti occupation novel, it is not a propaganda piece; and it is certainly worthy of reading and savoring. Sahar Khalifeh signals hope for peace, reconciliation, and coexistence in the novel. Several reference to the class struggle overtaking the racial divide and even more promising tales of humans reaching out across the divide. There is the tale of the two Israeli soldiers weeping as they see a five year old boy reunite with his father for the first time ever and there is Adil lifting up the young Israeli girl who had just witnessed the stabbing of her father, an army officer.<br />Wild Thorns is well worth reading. The translation comes across well. It does not sound stale like many translations of Arabic literature can be.	2000-11-26
US	49610258	RUIEFW25JBC34	1579541712	619411322	Marathon: The Ultimate Training Guide	Books	5	59	79	N	N	the Joy of the Marathon	This is a fantastic guide for anyone interested in distance running. To me, as a relatively slow runner, it was simply invaluable as part of my preparation for my first and second marathons.  As I prepared for my last three marathons and for other long races I went back to check what good old Hal had to say.<br />This book strikes a superb balance between the needs of speed demons and mid to end of the pack types. It gives you ideas about what to eat, how to train for a marathon and how to taper. To me, the most useful part was that on predictions.  Higdon presented different models and theories for predicting one's marathon time based on performance in shorter distances.<br />Another very useful part of the book is the pre and post marathon preparations. Most valuable part is the motivation the book will give you. We all go through ups and downs in the training phase, this book will remind you of that and guide you all the way to the finish line, recovery and sign up for the next marathon.  You can't go wrong with $ 12 on this book. Also see Higdon's web site and check out Runner's World web site	2000-11-22
US	49610258	RRJ9CTQ3S4MNU	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Waiting for the rest of his life to begin �	This is one of these rare books that through reading you enter a whole different world with very different rules.  It is an exceptionally well-written novel, with a great deal of details on life during and after the years of the Chinese Cultural Revolution. This is a work of creativity and sensitivity. <br />It is the story of an army doctor, a man who worked his way out of an essentially peasant background through the help of his family.  As tradition in China dictates, he needed to take a wife to care for his aging parents.  An arranged marriage addresses the problem of the care of the elderly superbly but leaves him totally unfulfilled.  Ha Jin portrays a sensitive, caring, weak and often frightened man, who is a victim of events and insecurities; and an ignorant loving peasant wife who accepts what the husbands offers and does not ask for more.<br />As a reader you are tortured by the couple's blind adherence to custom.  The main couple in the story though is the Doctor and the nurse girl friend.  Unable to consummate their love they wait and wait and wait. Here you are more tormented by their total adherence to army and Cultural Revolution rules, mandates and norms, which are often at odds with the traditional Chinese culture. So here you have our great army doctor obliged to the wife through traditional values with no complaints, unable to marry the girl friend, but also due to army rules he's unable to have an affair with her and unable to divorce the peasant wife.  <br />Ha Jin's Waiting takes us to a whole different world, every time you pick it up, you travel across cultural and time zones; first to China and then on to the Cultural Revolution days. This is a truly wonderful work, not a novel of fast paced events; the main character is portrayed in very realistic terms, not necessarily sympathetically. For me I appreciated the slow, meandering movement of events, it made it far more realistic and transformed me totally to this fascinating culture at its most peculiar of times. Enjoy!	2000-11-21
US	49610258	R1EESAL4GVXQK1	0375410538	924994086	Anil's Ghost	Books	4	15	16	N	Y	Killing fields, 2 brothers, 1 suiside, 2 divorces and more !	A very enjoyable book. The first half of the novel feels like a fast paced adventure, indeed a chase atmosphere, with an obvious main character, Anil. The second half of the book is much more convoluted and slow. You gradually give up on the chase and the action and get much more interested in new emerging main characters.  Perhaps the author's way of moving us from the fast paced life style and ways of North America to the slow meandering ways of Sri Lanka.<br />I found Anil, to be the least interesting and believable of the main characters in the book. Somehow, despite of her fascinating background, her line of work, the stories of her marriage, love affairs with a married man and a lesbian woman, she comes across shallow and empty. She is just there with all of these things happening to her and around her. Yet, this is a woman, who as a child changed her own name, was a champion swimmer and have survived many losses and kept on going in search of the identity of a ghost against strong odds. With Anil you are left with a strong image of a drifter, but then you see very determined acts that don't conform at all to the drifter image. Perhaps this contradiction is part of the genius of this book.<br />The story of the two brothers, which dominate much of the second half of the book, is very nicely told. The images of the Sri Lankan countryside, hospitals, and civil war are very vivid. Several other minor characters come into play, they offer very limited enhancement to the overall novel and at times feel like a short story interjected in the middle of this book. The story of the famous physician who was kidnapped by the rebels and somehow settled happily into his new life was fascinating but I am not quite sure if it meant much or added anything to the overall book.<br />One aspect of this book that must be mentioned is the language. It is beautifully written and the description of people, scenery, sound, smell and movement is so vivid. You can picture the forest where the old archeologist and the little girl live, you can see Anil storming out of the hearing and you can hear the frantic sounds in the hospital as the brother goes to sleep in the pediatric ward.<br />There is a degree of commonality in the style with The English Patient. Thematically both books are very similar; a story of three complex people whose lives become heavily intertwined in a period of time, with an action packed frenzied background. There is also the three continent connection.<br />The main criticism I have of this book is that I felt it was somehow cut short, or should have been a lot shorter or even a collection of short stories. There was so much to build on and to develop. Ondaatje should have edited out some irrelevant parts or really expanded them and done this fantastic build up more justice. Maybe this is where the editor may have gone wrong or not done enough.	2000-11-21
US	49610258	R3QOXIB4V1MAUD	0394587391	912151089	Out of Place: A Memoir	Books	4	21	26	N	Y	The real Edward !  An excellent book	This is a remarkable work of a truly fascinating man.  Much of the memoir  is dedicated to Edward Said's relationship with his mother and father.  Said recounts the history of his father, a Palestinian, who went to America  and possibly fought for it in the First World War.  The father Wadie, later  returned to Palestine and then moved on to Cairo to establish a great  business success.  The father comes across very typical Middle Eastern  conservative authority figure with a rather peculiar but very strong  American patriotism.<br />Said's mother, comes across as a truly fascinating  woman; a Palestinian Lebanese Christian, who possessed a great passion for  music, literature and original thought. In the tradition of the Middle  Eastern mothers she had a large presence in the lives of her children.  She  was an original woman, who felt comfortable amongst the many different  cultures of the middle east, yet held on to her views, which at times were  at odds with her environment.<br />Said tells of the huge influence his  mother had over him during her life and even after her death.  The story of  the mother's search for a passport, a nationality, her dislike of life in  America, her eventual death in America are beautifully told by Said.  The  mother's early conversion to Nasser's cause is mentioned, it even alienated  the mother from her Lebanese family, but Said never tells us where it  led.<br />I loved Said's self analysis relating his behavior to his mother:  \\"...I seem to have absorbed her worries, her tireless concern for details,  her inability ever to be calm, her way of constantly interrupting herself,  preventing a continuous flow of attention or concentration on anything.\\"  Said is capable of very vivid language indeed.<br />The school life of Said in  Cairo is fascinating. He attended English Colonial schools, American and  Egyptian schools in Cairo and eventually moved on to Massachusetts,  Princeton and Harvard.  Much of his pre college school life was  problematic, at times there is too much dwelling and self-pity but it is  largely interesting.  On a week trip, with his mother, that for some not  clearly explained reason left him indifferent to Egyptian Monuments, he  says \\" ....I was relieved of the pressure and the continual anxiety of not  getting anything right.\\"<br />The \\"out of place\\" theme is repeated throughout  the book, at times very eloquently told, \\" ...the habit of always being  dressed differently from the natives, any natives.\\"  I do however find it  remarkable that Said does not also seem to see how well he did apparently  fit everywhere outside of his early Colonial school.  In fact, from his  stories at the American School in Cairo, Princeton, Harvard and mostly  Victoria College in Cairo, you often see a fairly popular kid with many  friends.<br />I laughed out loud at the part describing his episode of  revisiting Victoria College in 1989.  He bribed his way in to show his  family his old classroom, and later got thrown out by a woman wearing an  \\"Islamic-style dress\\". Said proceeds to describe Victoria College in 89 as  a \\"privileged Islamic sanctuary\\" that expelled him twice.  The fact that  the first time he got expelled was due to punching a kid and sending him to  the hospital for a week and the second through trespassing both by his own  admission does not seem to matter, in both cases, to him it was  discrimination.  Victoria College is a million miles away from being an  Egyptian Islamic sanctuary, with a mixed high school.  Said's self pity and  righteousness is a times reminiscent of the Maggie Thatcher memoir, well  no, not 10% as bad but it does detract a bit from the book.<br />There is one  thing I hated about the book.  Where is part two? Edward Said gives you so  much detail about his early pre political life.  I read this book, because  I often find myself at odds with Edward Said's political views, I wanted to  know more about the man.  I thoroughly enjoyed \\"Out of Place\\"but it has  not satisfied my desire to understand his viewpoint.  I often thought that  he simply fails to understand Egyptians and Egyptian attitudes but had no  idea how much time he actually lived there.<br />This is a great book, very  enjoyable and full of reflection.  I gave it 4 stars only because as much  as I loved it I could not bring myself to give it an identical rating to  Leila Ahmed's Border Passage.lace\\" but it has  not satisfied my desire to understand his viewpoint.  I often thought that  he simply fails to understand Egyptians and Egyptian attitudes but had no  idea how much time he actually lived there. <br />This is a great book, very  enjoyable and full of reflection.  I gave it 4 stars only because as much  as I loved it I could not bring myself to give it an identical rating to  Leila Ahmed's Border Passage.	2000-09-18
US	49610258	R20T2YK1HEUSHS	0140188932	574986806	If Not Now, When? (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	45	48	N	N	A great story .. sad, moving and very human!	Primo Levi, from what I know was a very gifted and sensitive man.  Levi  never forgave himself for surviving the holocaust, he felt guilty because  his own life was spared, eventually he committed suicide.   A very little  known fact of World War II, was the work of the Jewish Resistance. Millions  of European Jews perished in the holocaust, some managed to get away, a few  managed to hide, and there also were the Jewish Partisans; those who  fought.     If not now .. when? is an absolutely beautiful story of those  souls who fought the oppression. This is not a graphic book of the  suffering of the holocaust; this is a great novel about a group of people  who in spite of all the suffering keep moving forward. They do hold it  together, they make friends, love, sing, and cry, celebrate and mourn. This  is not a war glory story, it is a people story, and how they changed and  adapted, how they kept going. Yes, the overused expression of &quot;triumph  of the human spirit&quot; so appropriately describes the theme of the book,  but not always; Levi was realistic enough to see to that.     I was  profoundly touched by this book and thoroughly enjoyed it as a non-Jew.  However, I never saw this book as a journey to Palestine, as suggested by  some. These were people rising up to fight injustice and to stay alive,  they largely moved aimlessly. To interpret this book as a part of the  Zionist ovement would in my opinion be wrong.    This is translated book,  it is excellent in English, and it must have been even better in Italian. I  wish I could read it in its original language.	2000-09-10
US	49610258	R2YD0HUJXTM6CT	0446673579	456827410	2: The Eternal Temple (Ramses, Volume II)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Lots of education, a bit of sex with a twist of religion	This is a really nice collection. I enjoyed it very much. It is so very  well researched in both historical and religious terms. Jacq was largely  very faithful to historical facts. He made one enormous assumption with no  historical backing whatsoever, that Ramses II was King of Egypt during the  time of Moses. His history of Moses and the events of his life resemble  those told in the bible and Quran, but in a secular fashion.  The story  does go on, but then again the man did rule Egypt for a very long and  eventful period. There are indeed several cardboard like people in the  book, very one dimensional and therefore very predictable.  If you like  history, suspense, lots of action, this is a great collection, enjoy it.   If you are planning a Nile Cruise, or have just been on one, you must buy  this.	2000-08-29
US	49610258	R6OUAGG7O4U9A	0446673560	572759303	1: Ramses: The Son of Light - Volume I	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Lots of education, a bit of sex with a twist of religion	This is a really nice collection. I enjoyed it very much. It is so very well researched in both historical and religious terms. Jacq was largely  very faithful to historical facts. He made one enormous assumption with no  historical backing whatsoever, that Ramses II was King of Egypt during the  time of Moses. His history of Moses and the events of his life resemble  those told in the bible and Quran, but in a secular fashion.  The story  does go on, but then again the man did rule Egypt for a very long and  eventful period. There are indeed several cardboard like people in the  book, very one dimensional and therefore very predictable.  If you like  history, suspense, lots of action, this is a great collection, enjoy it.   If you are planning a Nile Cruise, or have just been on one, you must buy  this.	2000-08-29
US	49610258	R28I30VOX0HZA2	0446673609	491448220	5: Ramses: Under the Western Acacia - Volume V	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Lots of education, a bit of sex with a twist of religion	This is a really nice collection. I enjoyed it very much. It is so very well researched in both historical and religious terms. Jacq was largely  very faithful to historical facts. He made one enormous assumption with no  historical backing whatsoever, that Ramses II was King of Egypt during the  time of Moses. His history of Moses and the events of his life resemble  those told in the bible and Quran, but in a secular fashion.  The story  does go on, but then again the man did rule Egypt for a very long and  eventful period. There are indeed several cardboard like people in the  book, very one dimensional and therefore very predictable.  If you like  history, suspense, lots of action, this is a great collection, enjoy it.   If you are planning a Nile Cruise, or have just been on one, you must buy  this.	2000-08-29
US	49610258	R2R0IN64QBJ3A4	0446673587	611019295	3: Ramses: The Battle of Kadesh - Volume III	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Lots of education, a bit of sex with a twist of religion	This is a really nice collection. I enjoyed it very much. It is so very well researched in both historical and religious terms. Jacq was largely  very faithful to historical facts. He made one enormous assumption with no  historical backing whatsoever, that Ramses II was King of Egypt during the  time of Moses. His history of Moses and the events of his life resemble  those told in the bible and Quran, but in a secular fashion.  The story  does go on, but then again the man did rule Egypt for a very long and  eventful period. There are indeed several cardboard like people in the  book, very one dimensional and therefore very predictable.  If you like  history, suspense, lots of action, this is a great collection, enjoy it.   If you are planning a Nile Cruise, or have just been on one, you must buy  this.	2000-08-29
US	49610258	R2I2276MR6J3FA	0446673595	803421384	4: Ramses: The Lady of Abu Simbel - Volume IV	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Lots of education, a bit of sex with a twist of religion	This is a really nice collection. I enjoyed it very much. It is so very well researched in both historical and religious terms. Jacq was largely  very faithful to historical facts. He made one enormous assumption with no  historical backing whatsoever, that Ramses II was King of Egypt during the  time of Moses. His history of Moses and the events of his life resemble  those told in the bible and Quran, but in a secular fashion.  The story  does go on, but then again the man did rule Egypt for a very long and  eventful period. There are indeed several cardboard like people in the  book, very one dimensional and therefore very predictable.  If you like  history, suspense, lots of action, this is a great collection, enjoy it.   If you are planning a Nile Cruise, or have just been on one, you must buy  this.	2000-08-29
US	49610258	R1PJZQ0CF6G4T8	0140188932	574986806	If Not Now, When? (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	A great story, sad, moving and motivating	....A very little known fact of World War II, was the work of the Jewish Resistance.  Millions of European Jews perished in the holocaust, specifically being hunted, for no reason but their origin. Many run away, a few managed to hide and there also were the Jewish Partisans; those who fought back.  <br />If not now .. when?, is an absolutely beautiful story of those brave souls who fought the oppression.  This is not a graphic book of the suffering of the holocaust; this is a great novel about a group of people who despite of all the suffering keep moving forward.  They do hold it together, they make friends, love, sing, and cry, celebrate and mourn.  This is not a war story, it is a people story, and how they changed and adapted, how they kept going.  Yes, the overused expression of \\"triumph of the human spirit\\" so appropriately describes the theme of the book, but not always; Levi is realistic enough to see to that.  <br />I was profoundly touched by this book and thoroughly enjoyed it as a non-Jew. I never saw this book as a journey to Palestine....These were people rising up to fight injustice and to stay alive, they largely moved aimlessly. To interpret this book as a part of the zinonist movement would in my opinion be wrong.<br />This is translated book, it is excellent in English, and it must have been even better in Italian.  I wish I could read it in its original language.	2000-08-27
US	49610258	R2773R1I5RDCYL	0374525641	65032227	The Spirit Catches You and You Fall down: A Hmong Child, Her American Doctors, and the Collision of Two Cultures	Books	4	5	7	N	N	A truely balanced analysis of cultural misscommunication	This is a wonderful book with great insight on a fascinating culture, the Hmong.  Anne Fadiman gives a brief history of the Hmong people in China and  Indo China and explains in succinct manner much of the origin of Hmong ways  and traditions.  She does so in empathetic non-condescending and  non-lecturing manner that I really appreciated.<br />The story of young child  and her family is very much a core theme in the book.  Anne Fadiman  coverage of the events and the analysis is so balanced that it at times it  is frustrating.  You feel you want to get angry and blame someone, blame  the Hmong for their ways or the American medical system for its rigidity,  but you can't.  The very balanced coverage and analysis of the various  events and motives makes it hard to blame either side.  It forces the  reader to understand and appreciate the differences for what they  are.<br />This book should almost be a required reading for understanding  cultural differences in a human and vivid way for Westerners who need to  deal with Asians in particular and other non -Western cultures in  general.<br />I did not like the analogy of the baby killers to the  Palestinians.  Somehow when you think of the horrible pain and suffering  that the Hmong people had endured at the hands of the Communists and  Vietnamese and when you think of other examples of similar heart wrenching  stories, when you want to think of powerful oppressive and cruel people  chasing helpless powerless refugees, Palestinians do not come in mind.   This just came across as a cheap shot, totally unnecessary in an otherwise  great book	2000-08-21
US	49610258	R3T3BKG00E5N1U	0385720378	3943641	In the Eye of the Sun	Books	5	33	33	N	Y	Fantastic book ..great details full of culture &amp; history	This was the second of Four Souief Books and her first full-length work.  It is a real treat, very well conceived and written. It is an excellent  portrayal of Egyptian society and the various conflicting influences  affecting the Egyptian character.<br />Ahdaf Souif paints each and every  character in the novel in a &quot;real&quot; fashion, they are all very  plausible in their strength, peculiarities and humanities; the goodies and  the \\"badies\\" alike, are all well rounded. This does not only apply to Asya,  Seif, Crissie and the other main personalities, but to the many minor ones  too. No cardboard here!<br />In part this is a story of young idealistic  Egyptian girl, Asya, growing up in the quasi-socialist days of Nasser.   Ahdaf Souief paints a remarkably accurate picture of life in Cairo during  that era.  The 1967 Six days war takes place, dreams are shattered and many  lives are torn, but largely life goes on.  Asya's love story in Egypt moves  with her abroad as she goes to the North of England for post Graduate  education. Again Souief paints a remarkable detailed and accurate picture  of life in the North of England in that era. Asya struggles and adapts with  life in the west.  She is so very firmly anchored in her roots, upbringing,  and culture; yet she still wades into The West. <br />Asya strengths and  weaknesses as a human being dominate much of the second half of the book,  all written in a gripping language that makes you feel you are right there,  part of the scene. At times I wanted to shout out &quot;leave him.. throw  him out .. he's no good ..don't you see ...&quot;  or &quot;call him ..tell  him ... don't put up with that ..&quot;<br />Souif painted an outstandingly  accurate picture of how a wedding, a funeral, school life and even war and  politics feel like in Egypt. Souif was specially masterful at the way she  weaved the funeral scene, with her superb translation of the Quran. I could  actually picture myself in Etba in Cairo receiving the mourners.<br />Ahdaf  Souif's mastery of both English and Arabic comes across in every word in  the book. She loves both languages and takes and gives joy in illustrating  their beauty without losing the theme of the book.<br />The book shed a great  deal of light on how Egyptian view not only themselves but also how they  view the west, the Arabs and also Israel. It provides a very realistic look  on how integrated Moslems and Christians are in City life in Cairo. (at  least used to be , not really sure about now)<br />Aisha and Sandpiper are 2  other outstanding books by AS, if you enjoy this book, you will certainly  like these 2. In a funny way, some of the stories from these 2 books are  intertwined with In the Eye of the Sun. You will appreciate these 2 shorter  books many times more after you have read this one.<br />The Map of Love, her  most recent book 1999, was short listed for the Booker prize (and should  have won it over Disgrace which is also a fantastic book with great insight  on life at the other end of the Africa) , is an excellent book but not half  as good or real as this book, In The Eye Of The Sun is a real treat. I was  depressed when I finished it, I wanted more!	2000-08-19
US	49610258	RL6UJZ74KHOXS	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	2	5	12	N	Y	Very readable, OK .... but not fantastic	I enjoyed some of the stories a great deal and found others rather boering and not well thought out or researched.  The stories of contemporary Boston  were the worst, Ms. Lahiri attempted to fill these with details, the fact  that she got a great many of these facts wrong, detracted from the book.  In general the stories where she allowed her vived imagination to do the  work and concentrated on personal detail instead of the place detail were  the best.<br />I enjoyed the stories set in India the best with the exception  of the title story.  These were in general very sensetive well written and  were easy to read.  I found the charachters in Interpreter of Maladies  unrealistic and very cardboard, she even managed to do that with the  children who only feathured in the background.<br />Mrs. Sen and The Third and  Final continent are 2 stories that i really enjoyed.  I found them to be at  far higher standard than the rest of the book.  They came across  preceptive, sensitive and insightful.  These stories are truely well woth  reading.  Mr. Prizada was also an excellent story<br />Sexy was by far the  worst story in the book full of stupid mistakes and out of charachter  behavior. I found it difficult to understand how an avid runner is also an  heavy smoker, and how come 2 people who both work in downtown Boston could  not arrange meetings during the week.  ALso Ms. Lahiri ought to know that  the Boston Symphoney does not have saturday matinee concerts and public  radio voulnteers not employees do most of the fund raising.<br />I have no  doubt that Ms. Lahiri will produce great fiction in the future, this is OK  but not that great	2000-08-13
US	49610258	R12TSV4GQITWVJ	080410753X	877380177	The Kitchen God's Wife	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A great novel ... insight into China, its people &amp; history	This is the first book of Amy Tan I read. I thoroughly enjoyed it. I was totally captivated by the mother's story in China.  It is mostly the story of a Chinese woman growing up in Shanghai and rural China and then living  the war years in different parts of China.  Amy Tan vividly captures the  images of China and the Chinese character in a thoroughly enjoyable and  very readable way.  It makes them accessible in a way where you can  actually develop a real understanding of the Chinese obsession with luck,  superstition and manners.<br />I particularly enjoyed the fascinating account  of the preparations for the marriage and a wedding with war approaching  fast in the Shanghai background.  I couldn't help recalling the images of  \\"Empire of the Sun\\", even though that dealt more with the super privileged  lives of the colonials rather than the merely privileged lives of the well  off locals.<br />The tale of many years of a bad marriage at a very  difficult time intertwined with friendships and adventure flows so  naturally.  The \\"suspense\\" is never reduced even though you know the  outcome.  The brutality of thoroughly dreadfull man, the husband is in the  background all the time, even in later days in America.<br />I really  enjoyed the description of the situation in Shanghai following the defeat  of the Japanese and in the period prior to the KMT collapse.  Amy Tan paint  a picture of ciaos and confusion again in natural way, in a setting the  scene way so you can actually picture the background and develop an  understanding for why and how historic events took place. You never get the  impression that Tan set out to give a history lesson, and there is never  the dryness of a long section setting the scene; it is just there.<br />The  story eventually returns to America, to the San Francisco China Town and to  the life of an Americanized daughter, also in the Bay area.  The dialogue  and the continued saga of the two old \\"friends\\" from China in America was  beautifully \\"ethnic\\".  There is fair bit about the mother - daughter  relationship and the daughter's view of her relations.  This was fine, but  frankly just very distant background that I did not think added much to the  book.  I don't believe it detracts from it either.<br />Being found of Asia in  general and having reasonable first hand knowledge of China, I thoroughly  enjoyed this book and think Amy Tan is a gifted novelist with great insight  and a fantastic ability to create thriller like suspense of ordinary lives.beautifully \\"ethnic\\".  There is fair bit about the mother - daughter  relationship and the daughter's view of her relations.  This was fine, but  frankly just very distant background that I did not think added much to the  book.  I don't believe it detracts from it either.<br />Being found of Asia in  general and having reasonable first hand knowledge of China, I thoroughly  enjoyed this book and think Amy Tan is a gifted novelist with great insight  and a fantastic ability to create thriller like suspense of ordinary lives.	2000-07-11
US	49610258	RT4FPSR35V6BX	0060977493	521720988	The God of Small Things	Books	5	8	8	N	N	A True Masterpiece!	With so many excellent reviews of this fantastic book this will be brief.  This is a true masterpiece written in truely beautiful poetic language. <br />This is very sad tale of two generations of a well to do family of  Syrian Christian Indians.  Relatives from the West visit and lives are  never the same again.  It is also a tale of the cast culture and the  untouchables and of many people and events that cross the path of the main  &quot;tale&quot;<br />Roy's prose is beautiful.  Her ability to create truly  vivid images is extraordinary. I took so much pleasure in her description  of the many fine details of the lives of her characters. Her unique style  of writing that keeps going back to earlier images to revive them in the  mind of the reader was most enjoyable. <br />If you like a clear plot and fast  action this book is definitely not for you.  There is no plot per se,  events unfold very slowly most of the time with lots of digression.  I  loved that it, it gave me time to build an image in my mind and that image  kept on getting developed and refined. The main charachters are sketched  but not always in total, this comes across as a given, so you don't miss  it.   <br />I absolutely can not wait to read more of her work.	2000-07-11
US	49610258	R37ER3F3W6V0ML	0671510053	357229344	The Shipping News	Books	5	3	6	N	N	A masterpiece, the life of the very ordinary!	I found the first 70 pages or so very tough going.  I am not sure at what point, I became totally gripped by this book.  I so thoroughly enjoyed it after that and plan to read it again soon.<br />Annie Proulx build up and  development of the main characters is remarkable.  They jump out of the  pages and speak to you.  The details of everyday life in this frozen corner  of the world, the chatter in the offices of the shipping news and life of  an unusual family emigrating to an unlikely destination; all come across so  vivid and live.<br />No doubt this is Annie Proulx best book to date	2000-06-28
US	49610258	R7F546FTES6ZE	0684852225	55789944	Close Range : Wyoming Stories	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Sad, depressing, dark, yet a true masterpiece	Everything you ever wanted to know about a cowboy life and more.  A book of short stories covering different periods in the twentieth century. I enjoyed this beautifully written book so much, yet I largely found it very  sad and depressing. <br />Some of the stories literally race in breathtaking  fashion through miserable lives, it is dark sad, frightening, depressing  and so very real. Some stories take their time building up lives that had  rare moment of happiness, but ultimately were largely sad. There is so much  suffering in this book, so much blood and so much agony.<br />In many respects  this book is so very similar to Accordion Crimes.  As always, thoroughly  researched, AP must have spent her time in Wyoming reading everything that  was ever written on rodeo life, horses and horse farms.  The very well  researched background material coupled with Proulx's creative character  building and gifted story telling along with her mastery of the words makes  for a great book that causes so much reflection.<br />I don't mean to put  anybody off this great book, but be warned this is not a book about the  \\"triumph of the human spirit.\\"	2000-06-28
US	49610258	R858I63ASBIJZ	0684832828	635179965	Accordion Crimes	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A different  way to look at the triumph of human spirit !	Salty, ethnic, real, are words I read in reviews of this book.  They are all true.  Superbly researched, as is usual with all of Annie Proulx's work.  This is a book of short stories, with interesting ethnic characters  at different periods in the end of the nineteenth and twentieth century.   <br />This is largely a sad tale of the futility of life, or if you wish you  may call it a book on the persistence of the human spirit despite of the  futility of life and therefor its triumph.  You will have to look hard and  reflect quiet a bit till you get to the triumph bit though<br />Annie Proulx  is wonderful storyteller, she sets the scene beautifully through her  excellent research of the background material.  Her characters are very  skillfully developed, and there is always an element of suspense, even when  she does tell us up front what eventually happens.  Best of all is Annie  Proulx's use of language and words to weave vivid images of people, places  and situations.	2000-06-28
US	49610258	R19TCEGMS4UFOV	0060930535	951868170	The Poisonwood Bible (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	A story of a family and a nation ...wonderful	I found the first two thirds of this book incredibly exciting and enjoyable.  I loved the way events were strung together from five different angles.  I thought the way the style of writing change depending on whether  it was the mother or one of the daughters telling us the story was superb.   I enjoyed the poetic and sensitive parts of the mother and Adah.  The  forthright Leah and the so very cute parts of Ruth May were also a pleasure  to read.  I think Barbara Kingsolver had trouble trying to write for Rachel  Price, an ignorant, self absorbed and mean spirited teenager and a  woman.<br />I was so captivated by the beautiful writing of Orleanna, in the  first section and found the book impossible to put down after that.  The  way Kingsolver described life in a Congo village from the five different  perspectives made feel like I was actually there, smelling the forest and  looking over the little black kids in rags playing in the red dust.<br />I  loved the parts about the language and how one word can mean so many  different things, that at times are related yet appear almost opposite.  I  found myself laughing out loud at the \\"Tata Jesus is bangala\\", which what  Rev. Price used to come closer to the villagers yet had a different meaning  from what he intended.  Kingsolver's appreciation of the Congolese culture,  people and habits was rooted in her appreciation of the linguistic  subtleties of their language.  She did a masterful job getting this across  to the reader.  <br />My main criticism of this book, is the way some of the  characters come across so very narrow.  Rev. Price and Rachel practically  have nothing good about them, both are self centered and generally mean  spirited.  On the other hand Anatole is perfection itself in every facet.   The other characters were much better rounded and a lot more  believable.<br />As to the politics of the book, even though I do not know  much about Congolese and Belgian colonial history, I suspect Kingsolver  analysis is again one sided and overly romantic. (I finished reading this  book on the day Mugabe said he would rule over Zimbabwe even if he loses  the elections.) I struggle to think of one African leader from the  liberation movements of the 1960's who did not end up an oppressive  dictator.  Could Lumemmba have been a different kind of a leader? No one  will ever know.	2000-06-27
US	49610258	R13J191AJE1JS7	0374115184	313376037	A Border Passage: From Cairo to America-A Woman's Journey	Books	5	52	52	N	N	Insight : history, family, feminism, religion, and more ....	A Border Passage is not a typical autobiography.  It has many elements of an autobiography, but it is also a book of well reasoned essays on some of the most difficult aspects of the history of Egypt and its culture. Essays  on Islam, imperialism and on the identity and language of Egypt<br /> Leila  Ahmed recount of her childhood and upbringing in Cairo and Alexandria is  beautifully written.  Her complex relationship with and her views of her  mother are an important theme in the first half of the book.  Her analysis  of the social impact of the colonial and post colonial on her own family  and the events that surrounded her is particularly insightful.<br />In writing  this book Leila Ahmed clearly has done a considerable amount of sole  searching with objective detachment.  She describes that process and  articulates clearly her reasoning.  You can actually sense the struggle and  pain she went through to reach a particular conclusion.  This is the work  of a sensitive person with a superb analytical mind and an ability to  reflect.  I particularly enjoyed her pointing out of what was a  recollection and knowledge in retrospect, in her process of understanding  an issue or an emotion.<br />The book contains a very well researched and  argued section on the \\"Arabization\\" of Egypt.  Here, she presents why she  is not an Arab, but rather an Egyptian, from a historical, cultural,  linguistic and social viewpoint.  She illustrates with significant  historical substantiation Arabism in Egypt as a colonial invention.  Yet,  she appears to be willing to accept an Arab identity as well as an Egyptian  one in the west, because of what she shares with Arabs in the west.  She  talks of two \\"Arabnesses\\", I think I understood her correctly, but I am not  sure.  If you are interested in the subject you will find this part very  rewarding, and if you couldn't care less, it will still be fascinating.  It  is her search for an identity, and her willingness to accept an additionalidentity in the west so as not to see herself escaping, in vain, the  negative connotations that she has dedicated her life to fight.<br />A Border  Passage is remarkable in its political correctness.  This, largely, comes  across as natural political correctness, not forced or contrived.  It comes  across from Leila Ahmed's own suffering from racial, religious and gender  discrimination. She tells of stories of a teacher giving her no grades,  because he couldn't believe an Egyptian could do in English what she did.   She tells of man a spitting in her face in England once he found out she is  Egyptian not an Israeli.  She also tells of American feminists not taking  her seriously because she is a Moslem.  As a result of her own experiences,  she was very careful not to offend sensibilities particularly in the  West.<br />This is a truly wonderful, sensitive, insightful, lyrical and brave  book.	2000-06-06
US	49610258	R13L4LT0TF8WN1	0747543674	977875409	The Map of Love	Books	4	12	12	N	N	A great book, but ...	The Map of Love is very well written, with lots of insight on a critical period in the History of Egypt. Amal, the primary charachter in the book, is very warm and real.  You can actually picture her in an appartment in  Cairo working through the night on the manuscripts.<br />Her  &quot;counterpart&quot; from nearly a century earlier is equally real. The  male charachters are not as well developed, Sheriff basha and Omar come  across a bit too good, too perfect!<br />The book deals very well with the  confused nature of the modern egyptian society and its roots; part islamic,  part Turkish, part Arabic, a bit of French with a unique Egyptian outcome.  Refernce to some of Ahdaf Souif's earlier books' characheters is very  clever.<br /> The scenes in Upper Egypt are particularly clever.  The  Palestinian Israeli part did not do much for me and the brother's politics  came across contrieved, almost inserted in as an after thought to show the  on going family struggle.  Too many birds to hit with the one  stone!<br />Parts of the plot are somewhat shaky with a couple of &quot;one in  a million&quot; type occurances taking place. A supernatural bit, while  very minor, detracts from the book. <br />Ahdaf Souief, as always, is truely a  fantastic read, and this is one more book by her that is really difficult  to put down.<br />Use the very well prepared glossery at the end of the book  everytime you come across an unfamilar word. It will help so much in your  appreciation of the book.<br />If you want a truelly Ahdaf Souief masterpiece  read Eye of the Sun. If you don't have the mental and emotional energy for  800 pages then read Aisha and then Sandpiper.	2000-05-28
US	49610258	R3B8W7EBS8OEKF	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Thought provoking, intelligent and gives great insight	David Laurie, a Cape Town professor takes us on a visit to modern South Africa. The contrast between the very normal sounding life in the city, with university and student life and life on a farm is stark and so very  real.  The disintegration of &quot;law and order&quot; in the countryside  is portrayed in a, matter of fact, non judgemental manner.<br />The confusion  in the society in the country and the way blacks and whites view one  another is presented as David Laurie sees it with no attempt to explain it.  I liked that and disgreed with the review of Salamn Rushedi ( forgive the  spelling ) who felt that the book failed to explain why things were the way  they were.  I didn't feel I was missing out on further  explanation.<br />Laurie's daughter and her friends in the country come across  as throwback to the 60's with sufficient dose of cynisism to make it 99. I  loved the description of life on the farm and the animal shelter, you can  almost smell Bev's house.<br />On to the parts I likes least. The university  hearing proves to be be somewhat out of charachter, as we get to know more  about David Laurie. The Byron opera part came across contrieved, even  though it was beautifully written	2000-05-28
US	49610258	R2Q1A3N9BHN04F	0679749322	3943641	In the Eye of the Sun	Books	5	4	4	N	Y	A real treat	This is the second of Four Souief Books so far.  It is a real treat, very well conceived and written. It is an excellent portorial of Egyptian society and the various coflicting influences affecting the Egyptian  charachter.  Ahdaf Souif paints each and every charecter in the novel in a  &quot;real&quot; fashion, they are all very plausable in their strength,  pecularities and humanities; the goodies and the badies alike are all well  rounded. This does not only apply to Asya, Seif, Crissie and the other main  personalities, but to the many minor ones too.<br />Souif painted an  outstandingly accurate picture of the how a wedding, a funeral, school life  and even war and politics feels like in Egypt. Souif was specially  masterfull at the way she weaved the funeral scene, with her suprb  translation of the Quran.  I could actually picture myself in Ateba in  Cairo receiving the mourners.<br />Ahdaf Souif's mastery of both English and  Arabic comes across in every word in the book. She loves both languages and  takes and gives joy in illustrating their beauity without losing the theme  of the book.<br />The book shed a great deal of light on how Egyptian view not  only themselves but also how they view the  west, the arabs and also  Israel. It provides a very realistic look on how integrated moslems and  christians are in City life in Cairo.( at least used to be , not really  sure about now)<br />Aisha and Sandpiper are 2 other outstnading books by AS,  if you enjoy this book, you will certianly like these 2.  In a funny way,  some of the stories from these 2 books are intertwined with In the Eye of  the Sun. You will appreciate these 2 shorter books many times more after  you have read this one.<br /> The Map of Love, her most recent book 1999, was  short listed for the Booker prize (and should have won it over Disgrace  which is also a fantastic book with great insight on life at the other end  of the Africa) , is an excellent book but not half as good or real as this  book, In The Eye Of The Sun is a real treat. I was depressed when I finshed  it, I wanted more!	2000-05-19
US	49610258	R34BKQUGVSI5TC	9774244354	162536943	THE DAYS (H) (Modern Arabic Writing)	Books	5	14	17	N	N	A Classic	This is a must read for those interested in Egypt and Egyptian culture. It is an absolute classic, wonderfully written and well translated. The story of a poor blind boy with incomparable talent and motivation, It is also a beautiful love story, cross cultural marriage, conflict between civilizations and the push and pull between the sacred and the secular. Taha Hussien rose from very poor and humble origin to the heights of Egyptian society.<br />Each of the three parts of this book was translated by a different person, as a result it takes a bit of time to get adjusted to the new style as well as a new phase of the life of Taha Hussien.<br />The first part of the book, specially with the third person style can get a bit tedious but if you perceiver through that you will get the double reward of enjoying the book and learning more about this truly unique man.	2000-04-29
