US	49620110	R1DT6KKNAZ1MVQ	0451173082	325486893	Against the Wind	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Worth a Look	In this first novel by J.F.Freedman, the reader can see his initial effort at writing fast moving thrillers with the raw power and flawed characters that typify all of his novels.<br />Will Alexander, an intelligent defense attorney who finds himself ousted from his own law firm while learning his wife is leaving him and taking his beloved daughter with her, is hired to represent the leader of four motorcycle gang members accused of a vicious murder. Will struggles to make sense of his life while attempting to clear the names of the accused. He discovers that the pieces used to convict don't quite fit together and the defendants may be victims of prejudice and stereotypes. Despite the procedural flaws (and there are enough to bother the experienced readers of legal thrillers), there is enough violent, homophobic behavior, prison violence, and legal maneuverings to hold your interest in this fast-paced novel. If you enjoy J.F. Freedman's later works, you might be interested in taking a look at AGAINST THE WIND(...)	2004-05-23
US	49620110	R22L5LNI12S1DH	0743255453	937109510	The Price of Loyalty: George W. Bush, the White House, and the Education of Paul O'Neill	Books	4	3	5	N	N	O'Neill Left With His Integrity Intact	Ron Suskind uses thousands of government documents and hundreds of interviews with administration officials as well as hours talking with Paul O'Neill in order to paint a picture of G.W.Bush and life within his presidency.<br />Suskind provides several examples of Bush's management style, characterized as a bobble-head doll flying by the seat of his pants and proud of it. It's pretty clear that President Bush is undergoing on-the-job training during a very dangerous, volatile time, and the men who are teaching/training him are really in control. Bush's key personnel have their own agenda and it's hard to tell how much Bush truly understands. He asked Paul O'Neill to come out of retirement to \\"serve the people\\" and two years later is asked to resign. Thankfully, O'Neill saved himself and left with his integrity intact. I don't know if the same will be said after Bush and his Administration's term has played out.	2004-05-06
US	49620110	R1MA9JF6AVQ32R	0399151273	890960277	Retribution	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Thrilling Debut	Jilliane Hoffman is a name to remember. Her writing debut is excellent and if she has other stories in her head that are on par with RETRIBUTION, she will become one of the superstars of commercial fiction.<br />C.J. Townsend is the tormented state prosecutor assigned to present the case against a suspected serial killer charged with the brutal butchery of the last of his ten victims. The way in which the ten women were allegedly killed coupled with the physical mannerisms of the accused triggers a psychological response in C.J. in which she re-experiences the trauma of an event that happenned in her twenties. The story takes place twelve years later as she begins to prosecute the serial killer. The author creates a deeply layered plot with realistic dialogue and characterization. The skill with which Hoffman ties the story together leads to a surprising yet very satisfying conclusion.<br />This review is purposely vague so as not to ruin the ending of this appropriately-titled thriller. Hoffman has created a web of intrigue and has painted a realistic portrait of a woman with PTSD. RETRIBUTION is the highly recommended debut novel of an author with a very bright future.	2004-04-29
US	49620110	R2QVHPOW69KUUB	097264010X	216762851	Betting on Myself: Adventures of a Horseplayer and Publisher	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Crist Cashes In A Winner	It's always interesting to read and learn about the behind-the-scenes action that takes place during the business ventures of which the general public is not usually aware. In BETTING ON MYSELF, Steven Crist is a horseplayer who had ideas to improve the information provided to gamblers by creating an alternative publication to The Daily Racing Form (DRF). Instead, as this well written memoir details, Crist became chairman and publisher of DRF. His story serves as another example of a person who fulfills his goals and proves that luck is directly proportional to hard work applied to opportunity.	2004-02-23
US	49620110	R3KORDPOKYXW7J	0345452577	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Try Again...With Lower Expectations	I really wanted the THE CONSPIRACY CLUB to work. I struggled through the first half of the book and waited for it to set the hook and give me a reason to continue reading. There wasn't one to be found. I even committed the cardinal sin of mystery/thriller readers and skipped ahead to get a jolt and a clue of what was going to happen. Even that failed to excite me to read further. I want desperately for Kellerman's latest to be up to his high standard and be the 5-star thriller other readers have reviewed, but for now it isn't. So I'll try again...later...and lower my expectations. Maybe that will work.	2004-01-29
US	49620110	R1O29HEBV6QBBY	0966883608	892719030	Stop Smoking with Patricia Allison: A Personal Program for Treating Nicotine Addiction	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cognitive Behavioral Therapy Treats Nicotine Addiction	Patricia Allison presents hopeful readers with a clearly explained and effective method to stop smoking. She uses her book, a video and two audio tapes to explain the thinking errors smokers use and tells the truth about what to expect as a person undergoes the transformation from smoker to non-smoker. Allison identifies the cognitive distortions used to perpetuate their addiction.<br />Allison gives readers tools to use when they are confronted with the urge to &quot;smoke just one&quot;. After they have been nicotine free for any number of days, smokers are tempted to light up; they go through a variety of mental gymnastics rationalizing the overwhelming and powerful compulsion to smoke. Allison prepares a defense that helps the ex-smoker survive.<br />STOP SMOKING is a realistic treatment for nicotine addiction. It doesn't use gimmicks nor present mistruths that waste the time of smokers seeking personal freedom from their chemical dependency. Instead, Patricia Allison presents the facts about nicotine addiction and lays out a plan that will work if used. She acknowledges that the battle is not over just because a person stops smoking. Instead there are several battles ahead for which she prepares the neophyte non-smoker.<br />As I write this, I've been smoke-free for nine days from the time I began to use the techniques explained by Ms. Allison. My addiction to nicotine has been described in terms I can understand and with techniques that really do work!<br />There are few people more annoying than ex-smokers who preach about the vile habit to those who have not yet quit. At the risk of sounding like one of those obnoxious ex-smokers, I strongly urge and highly recommend Patricia Allison's Treatment Program. It will improve your health, Guaranteed!	2004-01-26
US	49620110	R1T1TVY4IRBT5F	0670891576	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Makes Readers Ask, &quot;What Would I Do?&quot;	IN THE HEART OF THE SEA is an absolutely spellbinding account of a sperm whale attacking the whaleship Essex in November 1820 and its aftermath. The book begins with a history of Nantucket and whaling, immersing the reader in the climate and culture of life on the eastern seaboard in the early 19th century. While being very educational, it describes the attempts at survival by the crew who had to overcome starvation and dehydration in order to live. It creates the natural questions in the reader, &quot;What would I do in a similar situation?&quot; and the ultimate questions, &quot;Would I be able to eat my shipmates in order to survive?&quot;and &quot;What would I be like after the ordeal?&quot;<br />Nathaniel Philbrick does an outstanding job of introducing and explaining subjects related to the many facets of whaling and the sea. He describes life on a whaleboat, the behavior of sperm whales, the psychology of survival, starvation and cannibalism. This provocative subject is handled in a sensitive, mature way that substantiates the many positive statements made about Philbrick's ability as a writer. IN THE HEART OF THE SEA transports the reader to a time and place lost forever. For that reason it is highly recommended!	2004-01-26
US	49620110	RR7UO7MDZF1QF	0394746635	21906019	The Defendant	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Psychiatry Meets the Law	I happenned across this gem in a used bookstore, attracted by the content and the combination of two major institutions in America- medicine and law.<br />Although this non-fiction account of a psychiatrist being sued by a patient for medical malpractice was written in the mid 80's, I found it informative and thought-provoking, especially in the areas of mental illness, psychotherapy, and courtroom tactics and techniques.<br />A graduate student filed suit against her psychiatrist after a suicide attempt resulted in major injuries requiring her to use a wheelchair for the rest of her life. The plaintiff contended her doctor's psychotherapy was ineffective in preventing her from trying to kill herself, thus asserting that psychiatrist, Sara C. Charles was negligent and liable for damages.<br />The plaintiff had been given a diagnosis of Borderline Personality Disorder (BPD), considered by many in the mental health field, one of the most difficult conditions to treat, let alone understand and describe to a judge and jury. It was a challenging and stimulating experience to read descriptions and rationale for the plaintiff's behavior, the treatment strategies used by Dr. Sara Charles, and the difficulty the plaintiff's lawyer had in grasping the dynamics and essential features of BPD.<br />THE DEFENDANT should whet the historical appetites of reflective mental health professionals. It can broaden the views of present day therapists if they compare and contrast the perceptions and treatment of BPD in 1985 to those of today. Interested readers can speculate how effective newer treatment approaches, such as Dialectical Behavior Therapy, would be. Would it have helped the plaintiff regulate her moods, tolerate her distress and develop her sense of self-acceptance? Would it have had enough impact to prevent the tragic results of the plaintiff's self-destructive communication of her emotional pain? Interesting questions indeed. Questions and subject matter that arise for manysatisfied readers of the well-written and highly recommended DEFENDANT.	2004-01-24
US	49620110	R25OJP2IYM104L	0312319517	604432126	Avenger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Fulfills High Expectations	The novels of Frederick Forsyth incorporate real-life characters and events into thrilling plots that are ingenious yet plausible.<br />THE AVENGER is shorter in length than most of Forsyth's other books but no less well-constructed and suspenseful. Cal Dexter, the avenger of the title, is a skilled manhunter who learned his craft from a variety of military experiences, not the least of which was his tours of duty in Viet Nam as a tunnel rat.<br />In 2001 Dexter is hired by a self made billionaire to avenge the horrific murder of his grandson, killed while working to feed the brutalized masses left homeless during Slobadan Milosevic's genocide in the province of Bosnia. As the story unfolds the reader begins to realize that avenging the murder has greater implications than satisfying the sorrow of loss the grandson's death has created.<br />As in many of Forsyth's stories, the success of an endeavor has many hidden elements and depends upon many unrevealed relationships. Forsyth doesn't leave the reader disappointed in THE AVENGER. He is like a magician who tells how the trick is done after fooling the audience. After leading the reader down a path of vivid characterization, realistic dialogue and clever action he ties all the loose ends together in a very satisfying climax. He also leaves the reader with thoughts to ponder as you reflect back upon that time in our history. THE AVENGER is a very entertaining, thought provoking thriller that fulfills the high expectations for a Forsyth work of fiction.	2004-01-01
US	49620110	R1F1F82T307EY3	0553582127	996234195	The Search (Eve Duncan)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Puppy Love	THE SEARCH is a fast and entertaining story of &quot;The Bickersons&quot;, search and rescue worker Sarah Parker and John Logan, the indefatigable billionaire who verbally spar with each other until they submit to the unevitable. Their change in attitude toward each other is just in time to confront the villain who is trying to destroy a secret research plant. Golden Retriever Monty, Sarah's panting pal, falls in love with a wolf in a sub-plot from this converted romance author.	2003-12-22
US	49620110	R3Q5DXTJSXUBWS	0345441745	508002073	Death Row	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Mildly Disappointed	What began as a suspenseful thriller, ended as a mild disappointment. Ben Kincaid, the Oklahoma defense attorney who is the primary protagonist in William Bernhardt's main body of work, is representing Ray Goldman, a man on death row who gets his final reprieve seconds before he is to receive the fatal injection. The witness whose testimony sealed Goldman's conviction has told Kincaid she lied when she identified Goldman as the killer of her family. After she is found dead from an apparant suicide, Kincaid is left trying to find the evidence required to overturn the conviction and save Goldman's life.<br />Having never read one of Bernhardt's books but seeing favorable reviews describing his work as \\"legal thrillers with suspenseful courtroom drama\\", I was surprised and disappointed with the dearth of actual legal proceedings.<br />The bulk of the story seemed to revolve around the many different interpersonal relationships of the characters and the other storylines while Ben and his staff looked for evidence. They included: Ben's longtime friend, police officer Mike Morelli and his new partner, sarcastic Kate Baxter; sex offender Gabriel Aravena, whose prescription of Depo Provera had essentially chemically castrated him, has had it discontinued; and the fast food industry's self-made billionaire, who created artificial flavoring to enhance the taste of the the animal parts used in his expensive upscale burgers, emerges as a possible suspect.<br />It is the attention author Bernhardt paid to the subplots that has created my ambivalence toward the story. While interesting in themselves, they didn't seem to be smoothly interwoven as integral plot ingredients. Therefore, DEATH ROW gets a lukewarm recommendation, but strong enough for me to give William Bernhardt one more try.	2003-12-21
US	49620110	RVRUV1STED495	089296748X	289602035	Open and Shut	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Introduction to Andy Carpenter	Andy Carpenter, a defense attorney with a rapier wit and sarcastic repartee, represents a death row inmate appealing his murder conviction. While investigating, Carpenter uncovers a photo that implicates four powerful men, including his father, in a diabolical plot with potentially painful personal consequences.<br /> After reading FIRST DEGREE, I was so impressed I decided to read David Rosenfelt's first book. OPEN AND SHUT is just as good and is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED. It appears David Rosenfelt is on his way to a successful writing career; his name is one to keep an eye out for.	2003-12-21
US	49620110	RL4U14T6NN5SA	0446525804	472682750	Last Man Standing	Books	3	4	5	N	N	A  Discombobulated  Yawner	Web London, HRT operator, freezes up in a raid of a drug dealer's hide-out and all of Web's friends and co-workers are killed. Web had been a hero from previous ops but is ostracized by surviving wives and FBI officials. The few who believe in Web try to help him discover what really happenned in the blind alley. What they discover is a plot of revenge and a scheme to make millions of dollars in drug money from the sales of Oxycontin and other synthetic opiates.<br />There are several sub-plots in this long, cumbersome novel including a relationship with a 10 y.o. boy, a relationship with a psychiatrist who has replaced Web's previous psychiatrist who is an expert in hypnosis ( Uh, I wonder if that has anything to do with Web's behavior?), a horse farmer's son who was killed by white supremacists in a school shooting, a porno operation, and Web's two new friendships, coincidentally developed as he needs to solve the case.<br />Sorry to say, Baldacci missed the boat on this one. Not only was it confusing, it was far-fetched and difficult to believe. It is very frustrating to know how well Baldacci's stories can be, and then wade through this clunker. Hopefully, his most recent release will be much better.	2003-12-21
US	49620110	R2YHRO0NVF32H3	0060530383	805102411	The Kill Clause: A Novel	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Powerful Emotions Impact Values	U.S. Marshall Tim Rackley has his values and sanity challenged when his 7 y.o. daughter is viciously raped and murdered by a man who is later released on a technicality. Consumed with overwhelming anger and devastating grief, Tim is offered the opportunity to vent his rage when he is asked to join a group of others who want to punish killers who have escaped justice.<br />Gregg Hurwitz excels in tapping into the emotions that most of us would feel when dealt an unfair hand. Ranging from unimaginable sorrow to uncontrollable rage, Hurwitz gives us a lesson in morals and ethics and shows how emotions can interfere with logic and rational thought.<br />The KILL CLAUSE is very well-written and powerfully done. Highly Recommended!!!	2003-12-07
US	49620110	R2Q2NDASQMLEKK	0312301154	352928657	Blood Is the Sky: An Alex McKnight Mystery	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Strong Blood Ties	Alex McKnight travels to the woods of north Ontario with Ojibway friend Vinnie LeBlanc in a search for Vinnie's brother, Tom, hired as a guide for five Detroit gangsters, all of whom have failed to return.<br />When they arrive, Alex and Vinnie are told the hunting party has already left. In Alex and Vinnie's search they discover the Suburban, find shallow graves, and bears digging up burned bodies.<br />BLOOD IS THE SKY  reveals much about family, revenge, and soothing the wounds of sorrow created when children are killed. Alex becomes Vinnie's blood brother and the theme of the story compares the bond of friendship to the bond of ancestry and family.<br />BLOOD IN THE SKY was a quick, thought-provoking mystery and thriller. It was very realistic and plausible and concludes by tying the loose ends together in an ending that is believable and makes perfect sense.	2003-12-07
US	49620110	RYP2IV7M343RN	0345450175	290245844	Balance Of Power	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Recommended No Matter Where You Stand	The suspense of high government is played out in dramatic fashion in this well researched, realistic story of gun control and all the convergent forces that surround it.<br />As the story begins, President Kilcannon is called upon to act as confidant and protector for his fiancee's sister who is embroiled in a violent marriage with a jealous husband. After being encouraged to leave him, sister Joan attends the President's wedding with the rest of her family. On the way home, Joan, her mother and daughter, are gunned down by the distraught husband who used a banned automatic pistol and explosive bullets purchased at a gunshow in a neighboring state. From that point, the story takes on two simultaneous storylines, a civil trial and a Congressional-Presidential fight to pass a tort-reform/gun control bill.<br />Complex, deeply layered and absorbing, Patterson manages to personalize the gun control debate on many levels. He shows how tragic and meaningless ownership of such weapons are, how some consider banning them the first step in confiscation of all guns, and how a national organization representing gun owners wields the enormous power to intimidate legislators and influence their votes.<br />Patterson displays his talent as a novelist by engaging the reader and eliciting strong emotional reactions regardless of the reader's position on gun control. He has obviously researched the subject and developed a thorough understanding of the intricacies of government, enabling him to describe and create action among the Presidency, Congress, the media and the courts. His character development, dialogue and plotting sustain interest throughout this superb, highly recommended novel. Read it despite your own personal stance on gun control, there is a lot to be learned by both sides.	2003-11-25
US	49620110	R32X8IEU33VJMI	0399150420	685217243	Final Verdict	Books	4	12	12	N	N	For Daly and Fernandez Followers- Perfect	Michael Daly, an ex-priest who practices law in San Francisco with his ex-wife Rosie Fernandez, agrees to defend a dying man who he successfully defended years earlier from charges of murder.<br />The victim in this case, found dead in an alley, is a venture capitalist who, as the reader discovers in a methodical journey through short chapters, knows many people with motives to kill him. However, the police and District Attorney are focused upon convicting Leon Walker, their only suspect, appearing to be motivated by, what they believe to be, an unfair acquittal twelve years earlier. In their eyes, justice will be served if Walker can be found guilty before he dies of terminal cancer.<br />Sheldon Siegel successfully keeps the pages turning by gradually exposing the private lives and relationships of the rich victim and his business associates, many of whom entertain themselves in the seedier parts of San Francisco.<br />There is enough mystery and intrigue to recommend THE FINAL VERDICT, although there is nothing that distinguishes it from a host of other well-written legal thrillers. It will hold the most interest for those readers who want to follow the careers and private lives of the main characters, the attorney duo of Daly and Fernandez. For them the final verdict is nearly perfect.	2003-11-17
US	49620110	R13RP63BMAFFC7	0060516283	92035455	Gallow's Thief	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Capital Punishment in the 19th Century	Bernard Cornwell's novels are always so much fun to read! Every book he writes makes the reader a time traveller in which the setting, characterization, dialogue, social mores and culture are flawlessly presented within an absorbing plot.<br />In THE GALLOWS THIEF, the reader witnesses the brutality, degradation, and fallibility of Britain's capital punishment statutes in the 19th century. Punishment is swift but there is also the possibility of the inevitable, that an innocent man will be hanged. The questions and problems that Cornwell presents in this entertaining, yet thought-provoking story are similar to modern day arguments against capital punishment. However Cornwell has created a drama with interesting characters and realistic dialogue that educates while it entertains.	2003-11-17
US	49620110	R2UA0C7MFSYLJQ	0736042180	929810744	Baseball Strategies	Books	5	35	36	N	N	For Players, Coaches, and Lovers of the Game	After reading BASEBALL STRATEGIES and knowing it's available as a valuable reference, I'm looking forward to referring to it during the playoffs and World Series. BASEBALL STRATEGIES provides insight into the finer points of the game. It provides the rationale for the strategies used, and the decisions made regarding all of the individual match-ups in countless offensive situations that make baseball such a &quot;complex simple game&quot;.<br />Besides baseball fans, the book is obviously written for coaches and players who want to develop their understanding of the game and improve their ability to react and anticipate in any given situation. Contributors to the book are successful college coaches who, as life-long students of the game, have brought their own experiences and perspectives to this well-written, informative book of offensive and defensive strategies and tactics. Pitching is also explained, from fielding the position to developing mental toughness to developing a plan for getting the batter out.<br />This book contains a wealth of information for &quot;students of the game&quot;. If you play, coach, or just enjoy watching, BASEBALL STRATEGIES can provide valuable information for many seasons to come. There are so many pearls of wisdom, it should be guaranteed to improve the quality of play and understanding of everyone who reads it.<br />Tim Smith	2003-10-10
US	49620110	R13TJKRQHFNJ2D	0892967544	724758185	First Degree	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Clever, Thrilling, Entertaining	I was pleasantly surprised to realize that FIRST DEGREE contains most of the elements that I enjoy in a legal thriller. Protagonist Andrew Carpenter, a newly made millionaire, is an intelligent, self-deprecating, likeable attorney &quot;with enough sarcasm to dream about(using)a sarcasm patch&quot;.<br />After months of refusing several potentially lucrative cases, Carpenter finds himself choosing to defend a small-time drug dealer accused of murdering a lieutenant on the Paterson New Jersey Police Force. Circumstances move rapidly as the charges against the defendant are dropped and re-filed against Carpenter's girlfriend, ex-cop Laurie Collins.<br />The first half of this fast-paced legal thriller is used to set up the case. Rosenfelt introduces the characters with clever dialogue and literary devices. Carpenter and one of his friends engage in song-talking, manipulating their conversations so they can use the lyrics of popular songs to express themselves.<br />Don't get the wrong impression though. FIRST DEGREE is much more than sarcasm and clever dialogue. Once the case is developed, Rosenfelt masterfully takes us to trial to watch and listen as Carpenter does his job to defend the falsely accused and embarrass the prosecution with a cleverly lain trap. There are thrilling moments with a theme of attorney privelege and Carpenter's responsibility toward the defendant and those he asks to help him. Rosenfelt has created a character that readers will want to follow and read more about. He has created a winner.	2003-09-26
US	49620110	R28246KC2CMPX0	0312969198	41453332	A Cold Day in Paradise: An Alex McKnight Novel (Alex McKnight Novels)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Do Yourself a Favor	A COLD DAY IN PARADISE is Steve Hamilton's first novel. In it he introduces us to Alex McKnight, ex-cop, ex-baseball player, current private investigator carrying around a bullet in his chest from a shooting 14 years previous in which his partner and friend was killed. When McKnight is taunted with information supposedly known only to he and the imprisoned killer and is later tormented with intrusive recollections from the past, it begins to appear to McKnight that the man in prison is responsible for two murders in the present. Once the groundwork for the mystery is laid, i.e. how can a man in prison commit two murders out of prison, I was hooked. My guess is you'll be hooked too.<br />In A COLD DAY IN PARADISE, Hamilton displays his skill to write tense and absorbing scenes driven by realistic dialogue spoken by intiguing characters easily visualized. Having read two previous novels with McKnight as the main character, it was well worth the reading experience to read Hamilton's first book. It was interesting to see the basis for the behaviors and relationships described in the later books. <br />Whether you've read Hamilton's later books and are interested in McKnight's past, or have never experienced the writing skill of Steve Hamilton, do yourself a favor and read this well-deserved Edgar and Shamus awards winner!<br />Tim Smith	2003-09-19
US	49620110	R3B5OJZ5SPAMGT	0060002492	534292075	Amazonia	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Tongue-In- Cheek	If he just wouldn't have created a 100 foot long caiman. The swarm of giant locusts, the enormous anaconda, even the jumping land piranhas stretched the envelope of reality, but with a little imagination they were till plausible. Unfortunately, a cousin of the alligator 33 yards long tainted this otherwise exciting and inventive thriller.<br />James Rollins took the often used theme of a disease caused by man's intrusion into the natural order which then threatens to destroy civilization, and reconfigured that storyline in a new way so it makes sense and entertains at the same time. Once you answer the question that naturally arises, \\"Is this book for real?\\" and accept that much of the story is tongue-in-cheek, you should have a great time letting your imagination use Rollin's descriptions to thrill and entertain you. Then even a 100 foot long caiman will make sense.	2003-08-25
US	49620110	R2Y1LIQ0E8QRLN	0812967739	685030678	The Butcher's Boy	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Signature Style	THE BUTCHER'S BOY, Thomas Perry's first in a long line of first-rate thrillers, introduces the reader to Perry's signature style. Characters with keen self awareness and superlative observational skills anticipate the behavior and actions of others based upon their knowledge of human nature. Perry has carved himself a niche that is both insightful and entertaining. Read this and all his others for pure escapist fare.	2003-08-21
US	49620110	R5X1G23YE3RSX	140130057X	764274447	The Teammates: A Portrait of a Friendship	Books	5	0	0	N	N	To Be So Lucky	There are several reasons to endorse TEAMMATES, as a glance at the readers' reviews will attest. It is one of those books that possesses the ability to strike an emotional chord with each reader. It conveys the humanity of these four friends and defines friendship for all of us. No matter how great they were, the bond they developed shows us what really matters. Oh, to be so lucky as to have friends such as those.	2003-08-11
US	49620110	R3E1ACH1Y0QN1K	0679761691	917928537	Hard Candy	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Realism with a Message	If you want to spend an evening in the sleaze of New York City, pick up an Andrew Vachss and he'll give you quite a ride.<br />Give yourself the opportunity to be mesmerized with street tough dialogue and staccato-like description by sticking with the story until you get used to his writing style. You will also need to know the cast of characters, especially the women in protagonist Burke's past, in order to get the most out of each story. However, even if you haven't read the books in order, you can still piece together the relationships and the storyline.<br />All your senses will be put to use. Sights, sounds, and smells of the city will envelop you from the slobbering Pansy under a musty blanket in the back of the tank-like Plymouth transporting a rat to his death, to the consultation with Lily, the social worker who examines the physical damage done to abused Elvira.<br />Hopefully you get the idea. Vachss isn't for everyone but for those who like realism with a message, there are none better!	2003-08-09
US	49620110	R13MAY8NASM5QL	0060508167	810484076	Fatal Flaw	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Flawless to Me	This well-constructed legal thriller held my attention from the beginning when attorney Victor Carl tampered with the evidence at the murder scene of his secret lover until the final chapter where he is found commiserating with his lawyer friend whom he has just defended in the murder trial.<br />I knew from reading HOSTILE WITNESS that Victor Carl is not the cookie-cutter lawyer defending criminals in most legal thrillers. He is developing into a very believable character with shortcomings and easily identifiable motivations and feelings. There are several twists and surprises in the story but there is nothing beyond the plausible. Author William Lashner is able to weave together a story of abuse, greed, love and betrayal using characters who have realistic interactions with each other. They are colorful and unique with names that capture the essence of their personalities. Private investigator Phil Skink is vile yet intelligent while Lawrence Cutlip suggests his ruthlessness and his role as father of the deceased may have involved more than loving care.<br />The first two-thirds of the story sets the table for the trial and the rousing climax. The skill of Victor Carl is in full evidence as he manipulates the prosecution team and the proceedings, bringing all the seperate lines of investigation together. I suspect readers will share in the exhilaration and satisfaction as Carl's tactics garner success and a very satisfying conclusion. For me FATAL FLAW is Highly Recommended and &quot;Flawless&quot;.<br />Tim Smith	2003-08-01
US	49620110	R3FXVHELV7JC23	0465071724	505671530	Predators	Books	5	30	37	N	N	Educational for All Parents	Anna Salter does a masterful job of drawing attention to the fact that we live in an increasingly dangerous world amongst sexual predators who are invisible right before our eyes. These predators are able to successfully gratify their pathological appetites because not only are they experts at deception but also because they take advantage of our naivete and willingness to believe that friendly, pleasant-looking adults are trustworthy and have only good intentions around our children.<br />Salter points out that sexual assaults occur much more frequently than once thought. In addition, offenders are rarely caught because we are vulnerable to the distorted belief that we know who predators are, what they look like, and how they act.<br />The majority of the book is devoted to correcting those distortions. It provides insights into how to identify child molesters and rapists and how sadists and psychopaths operate. After describing the fine intricacies of deception and providing some intriguing observations on what to look for when we believe a person is trying to deceive us, Salter concludes that lies are easy to miss. She admits to reservations about developing the ability to detect deception frequently enough to make a difference. Instead she proposes the most effective means of protection is to \\"deflect\\" sex offenders through increased awareness of the environment and more involvement in our children's lives.<br />The more parents and adults educate themselves about those who abuse our children, the safer our society will become. The only glaring omission in Salter's work however, is the use of the Internet as a means to prey upon the young. A volume devoted to developing safeguards employing the same acumen and professional insights as used in this HIGHLY RECOMMENDED work would be a welcome addition to the subject.	2003-07-28
US	49620110	R2N6FKJN57GQGV	0688163173	339916413	Shutter Island: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Psychological Thriller Questions Reality	Dennis Lehane's SHUTTER ISLAND is an engrossing, thought-provoking, psychological thriller that cleverly challenges the reader to evaluate the main character's sanity.<br />The year is 1954 and U.S. Marshall Teddy Daniels is investigating the disappearance of Rachel Sorrando,a patient who has mysteriously vanished from Ashecliffe Hospital for the Criminally Insane. As a mid-fifties psychiatric hospital located on a North Atlantic island directly in the path of a hurricane, the setting is used to good effect as it conjures up visions of psycho-surgery and drug experimentation on deranged, psychotic killers imprisoned within its dark and cold, storm-ravaged walls.<br />The reader accompanies Daniels in his search for Sorrando while he meets and interacts with the colorful, enigmatic characters who populate the hospital and eventually challenge his grasp of reality.<br />Without giving away the story, by the climax there are several well-spun storylines weaving the plot into a possible deception of a grand scale. Along with Daniels, the reader also questions what was really happenning to him. As I was trying to decide, I was reminded of the movie version of A BEAUTIFUL MIND in which the audience saw the realism of John Nash's delusions and believed they were real just as he did. Likewise, readers of SHUTTER ISLAND are immersed in the workings of the mind of Teddy Daniels and must decide what is real and what isn't. Very Real! Very Challenging! Very Well Done!!	2003-07-23
US	49620110	R25DR9UZYC6DJ9	0345413903	521290095	The Murder Book (Alex Delaware)	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Continues to Excell	Jonathan Kellerman continues to crank out novels that are considered on the top rung when it comes to deeply-layered, well-constructed psychological thrillers.<br />In MURDER BOOK he educates us about detective Milo Sturgis, the best friend of Alex Delaware. It's like finally getting to know the \\"second fiddle\\" and discovering he's a Stradivarius, capable of making music every bit as melodious and captivating as \\"first chair\\" Delaware.<br />Kellerman takes us back to Milo's early years on the force when he was struggling with his sexuality. He was partnered with a crass, lazy, chemically dependent detective who appeared to not care about his job and left Milo to do the scut work. The vehicle Kellerman uses to return to Milo's past is a murder book of unsolved crimes including the rape and murder of 6 y.o. Janice Ingalls.<br />The bulk of the story is Milo's recollection of the crime and tracking down clues, interviewing witnesses and getting their perceptions of the past. Milo and Alex work at solving the crime and in the process uncover the past of some very important people including the current Chief of Police. <br />By revealing the personal histories of the characters who populate his novels, Kellerman gives his characters depth and personality making his stories realistic and entertaining. By learning about each character, Kellerman's thrillers are developing the quality of a series, carrying over threads of interest from one novel to the next. Add THE MURDER BOOK to the mosaic of inventive, well-written novels by one of the best. It is Highly Recommended!	2003-07-05
US	49620110	R2U9ISGNR52OFO	0525630120	328362043	Big Red of Meadow Stable: Secretariat, the Making of a Champion	Books	5	26	26	N	N	Like a Tremendous Machine...	As the Belmont Stakes approaches and another 3 y.o. has the chance to win the race and with it capture the Triple Crown, I thought it would be interesting to refresh my memory and read about Secretariat, the winner of the Belmont and the Triple Crown of 1973.<br />William Nack, who wrote BIG RED OF MEADOW STABLE in 1975, provides the reader with some of the most descriptive and awe-inspiring writing about horse racing and what it felt like to ride what many consider the best race horse who ever lived.<br />He tells the story of breeding Bold Ruler to Somethingroyal and a perchance coin-flip that gave ownership rights to Penny Tweedy who later syndicated Secretariat for over $6 million while he was still an actively racing 3 y.o. Nack tells the history of this super horse, describing the training methods of Lucien Lauren and his relationship with jockey Ron Turcotte, as well as the race-time strategy, anxiety, hopes and dreams as Secretariat grew from a green 2 y.o. colt to a strapping superstar.<br />As well written as this book is, what makes it special and distinguishes it from most others, is the descriptions of the races themselves. Nack takes the reader along for the ride in all of Secretariat's races leading up to and including the three races of the Triple Crown. His ability to put the reader in the irons, especially at the Belmont when Turcotte glances back during the stretch run to see the field an eventual 31 lengths behind and realizes he's aboard a horse running as the track announcer described \\"like a tremendous machine\\", is very powerful.<br />If you are interested in horse racing or just enjoy reading about the evolution of greatness, I think you will be satisfied with this highly recommended classic.	2003-06-04
US	49620110	R29UG78WS2WKC7	0892967293	578975146	A Fine Dark Line	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A Mystery with Meaning	Joe Lansdale has written a coming-of-age story of 13y.o. Stanley Mitchell growing up in East Texas, 1958. In A FINE DARK LINE Stanley crosses from innocence to the cold realities of domestic violence, racism, alcoholism, and murder as well as experiencing the natural awakening to sexual feelings, and realizing the necessity of work and friendships.<br />The picture Lansdale paints of the past, in the post WWII, pre-computer age, creates nostalgia via its realism. Stanley finds some love letters of a young girl with a mysterious past and a lost identity. He becomes interested in discovering more about her and is compelled to find out what happenned to her. In the process he befriends an elderly Black man and an abused boy his own age. As Stanley interacts with several adults and family members he passes from childhood into adolescence. <br />Lansdale writes there's a \\"fine dark line between black mystery and reality\\" and Stanley fears that his intrusion into the events of the past by openning the old letters has offended the gods, changing fate and causing evil things to happen to him. At the time it may have felt that way, but with the perspective and benefit from years of living, his reflections on the past help Stanley realize how much he's learned and how he's been molded into the man he is today.<br />As is characteristic of superb, meaningful writing, there is the story and the added meaning of the story the reader can \\"take home\\". Besides an intriguing mystery, Joe Lansdale has given his readers plenty to reflect upon and keep in A FINE DARK LINE.	2003-06-01
US	49620110	R3MO6QAXVVX0V4	0316154601	239093791	Lost Light	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Bosch Adjusts to Retirement	LOST LIGHT is a very satisfying story which captures the skill and humanity of main character Hieronymous Bosch as he begins his struggle with the boring reality of retirement from the high stress of being a detective in the Robbery/Homocide Division of the Los Angeles Police Department.<br />Michael Connelly uses the familiar situation of a retired cop returning to an unsolved case and for the most part, is able to handle all the problems that over-used scenario presents. He cleverly maneuvers Bosch so he is able to interview important witnesses and gain access to vital files and records despite losing the power and authority of his badge. There are basically three crimes, intricately connected, with an underlying sense that someone in power doesn't want Bosch nosing around, let alone solving the cases.<br />In addition to battling to solve the crimes, Bosch contends with the depression of divorce and the memories of his ex-wife, Eleanor Wish. Throughout the story, Connelly meticulously gives depth to Bosch's character as he struggles with his feelings of loneliness and thoughts of aging while being hampered by unseen forces interfering with his efforts to tie the three crimes together. The surprise at the conclusion defines the &quot;lost light&quot; of the title and once again shows why Michael Connelly is one of the most popular and talented authors of crime fiction.<br />Tim Smith	2003-05-26
US	49620110	R3OP90GO5JHFCE	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	11	16	N	N	A Provocative Premise	Brilliantly conceived and masterfully written, Dan Brown tells the story of a religious symbologist and the granddaughter of the murdered curator of the Louvre who uncover mysterious clues that may have tremendous political and religious implications. Brown intertweaves fact with fiction so smoothly that it's difficult to tell the difference. This skill makes the story plausible and frees the imagination to accept the premise and explore the possibilities on its own.<br />Brown's knowledge of art, religion, myth and history is vast and he has equally enormous writing talent which he uses to carve a story that is both educational and entertaining. He interprets the art creations and writings of Leonardo da Vinci to support his premise about the Holy Grail and to unlock the mysteries that have surrounded it through the ages.<br />Brown tells us about the Opus Dei, the Priory of Sion, and the power of the Feminine. He takes the Holy Grail and redefines its meaning in what to some people, may be provocative and offensive. The works of da Vinci and others are interpreted in such a way as to justify and prove Brown's premise. Brown uses the works as evidence which, if brought to light, will drastically alter the Catholic Church and the world's perception of it. Brown populates the novel with colorful characters speaking authentic dialogue which brings them to life. Characters include an albino monk, a paraplegic historian and a persistent and conscientious detective.<br />The Da Vinci Code is excellent. It's intriguing, very readable and highly recommended!	2003-05-10
US	49620110	R3OML5MEOLIGZ3	0743222008	177045780	The Vanished Man: A Lincoln Rhyme Novel (Deaver, Jeffery)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Deaver's Best	Jeffrey Deaver continues to amaze me with his creative ability to develop a story that is absorbingly original. In THE VANISHED MAN, Deaver creates a character who is a master at illusion and mis-direction, fooling quadriplegic super-sleuth Lincoln Rhyme and conscientious investigator, Amelia Sachs numerous times. What makes Deaver's writing ability all the more brilliant is captured in the old adage, \\"Fool me once, shame on you; fool me twice, shame on me\\". Deaver's ability to fool and deceive occurs several times and even when the reader knows it's coming, nothing can be done about it. This is Deaver's best, in a long line of cleverly constructed thrillers. The phrase \\"at the height of his powers\\" is overused to the point of losing its impact, but Jeffrey Deaver's power to write and entertain is soaring. Very Highly Recommended.	2003-04-28
US	49620110	R2EZSE6FKOEC85	0786710276	616174365	The Revenant	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Calms the Spirit; Spurs the Imagination	Reading stories about the American West, especially in the early 19th century when frontiersmen travelled into the largely unexplored wilderness of the Rocky Mountains, has a way of calming the spirit while spurring the imagination. This is especially true for stories written by skillful wordsmiths who weave fact and fiction with threads of adventure and human emotion.<br />From the talented Michael Punke comes such a story. Mountain man Hugh Glass, scouting for the Rocky Mountain Fur Co. is attacked by a grizzly bear and left with two men while he either heals or dies. Instead, they choose to leave him, expecting he can't recover from the savage attack. They take his gun and knife and away they go, convinced it is the last they'll see or hear of Hugh Glass. WRONG!<br />THE REVENANT is subtitled A Novel of Revenge. Certainly revenge is the powerful motive driving Glass to overcome unimaginable pain endured in an unforgiving environment so he can catch up to the men and mete out his own form of justice. However, it is also a story of survival and enlightenment. The encounters Glass has with a wide and varied cast of colorful characters throughout his journey drives the story and measures change and personal growth. When he meets his antagonists in a surprising climax, the reader has had time to reflect upon what s/he would do in a similar situation.<br />THE REVENANT is a powerful adventure and is fertile ground for empathic imagination. It is an excellent story, well-written and HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-04-11
US	49620110	R1Q5S6JURVSEA	0446531588	703746704	Derailed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Good Entertainment	From the openning chapter I got the feeling DERAILED was going to be good. It has suspense, intrigue, some humor and numerous surprises. I expected it was going to have moments of mystery and shock but even with my &quot;radar&quot; on, I was still stunned more than once.<br />I think for some readers the story will appear familiar since part of the plot has been used before. However, there are enough twists to make DERAILED a quick and satisfying dose of entertainment. There is one huge coincidence that at first causes an &quot;aw come on&quot; reaction but I remembered I was reading to be entertained and the scene became forgivable. The story is just plausible enough and the author addresses each potential hole in the plot that the entire story becomes possible.	2003-04-11
US	49620110	R14Y4MYRAF7GTF	0399149724	619984812	The Confessor	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Speculative Historical Fiction	Realistic and thought-provoking, THE CONFESSOR is actually speculative historical fiction about the role of the Catholic Church during WW II. Since the Vatican has chosen not to open the Secret Archives, the public (and gifted authors)can only speculate about the role of the Catholic Church and particularly Pope Pius XII as Hitler was devastating Europe and carrying out his Final Solution.<br />Daniel Silva uses a newly chosen Pope and the powerful men of the Vatican as key elements of the plot in this realistic thriller. As protagonist Gabriel Allon is restoring a painting of Bellini's Virgin in Venice, he is summoned by the powerful Ari Shamron to investigate the murder of Gabriel's friend and writer Benjamin Stern, who had been gathering information about the role of the Church during WW II and the effects on the Jewish people. <br />Naturally Gabriel answers the call. During his investigation he meets several intiguing and mysterious characters, encounters many close calls requiring his skills of deception, and undergoes formidable personal challenges on his journey to uncover the truth. Therein lies the power of Silva's writing. He is able to involve the reader in the characters and their development throughout a complex, absorbing plot while maintaining realism and emotional depth. He uses the continuity of the characters' past, especially Gabriel Allon, by referring to events which occurred in previous novels. This adds color and intensity to the characters, making their behavior more realistic and the plot more believable.<br />THE CONFESSOR is another bold, well-written thriller by an author who has maintained a high standard of thought-provoking, realistic novels since he burst on the suspenseful spy-fiction  scene with an UNLIKELY SPY. This latest addition to his highly regarded body of work should interest, entertain, and challenge you; it is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2003-03-26
US	49620110	R3H4HRS5SMZPUG	038533558X	734473825	Gone For Good	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Best Yet	Harlan Coban has written another deeply plotted, masterful thriller that keeps the pages turning. GONE FOR GOOD is not only full of surprises as the backgrounds and motives for each character are revealed, it also draws the reader in emotionally. Coban offers insights into the world of abuse and what it is like to grow up in families where physical and emotional abuse is the language used to teach life's lessons. Running away to a life on the streets is often the result as children attemot to escape the pain and confusion found in their own abusive environments.<br />It is with these young people that protagonist Will Klein works and from whom he learns vital information about his older brother, accused of murder and on the run for the last eleven years. The plot has several story lines which center around Will's relationships with, and his knowledge of, several of the novel's intriguing characters. Each character has a mysterious past which Will eventually uncovers and with those revelations come stunning surprises that make this Coban's best thriller yet. The final chapter ties all the loose ends together and brings GONE FOR GOOD to the kind of fulfilling conclusion readers of Harlan Coban's books have learned to expect.	2003-03-19
US	49620110	R1167KM989FZ56	0786869003	129957821	The Cell: Inside the 9/11 Plot, and Why the FBI and CIA Failed to Stop It	Books	5	10	10	N	N	History of Terrorism 1990 to 2001	THE CELL is written with the suspense, drama, and emotional impact of a fictional thriller usually found on the bestseller lists. Sorrowfully, it is not fiction. Instead, it is a well-written, thought-provoking history of terrorism as practiced by Islamic fundamentalists, from the assassination in 1990 of Jewish Defense League founder Meir Kahane to the planned attack of 9/11.<br />The book gives a vivid account of the seperate and often parallel investigations by the men and women of the FBI, CIA, and New York's Joint Terrorism Task Force as well as the investigative arms of several foreign governments. It cites numerous examples of the behaviors, suspicions, warnings, and vital information uncovered and possessed by one agency but withheld from the others. Whether due to professional jealousy, competition, or snobbery is to miss the point. The practice of one law enforcement agency acting in a vacuum must be discarded if the United States expects to remain safe. The message of THE CELL, in my mind, is to first acknowledge that numerous mistakes were made by every branch of government during both Democratic and Republican administations; and secondly, to learn from those mistakes and work together in a bi-partisan way to protect ourselves.<br />There has been a plethora of books following the terrorist attack of September 11, but THE CELL is one of the most important. It provides insight into what the U.S. was thinking and doing about terrorism prior to the attacks with the advantage of hindsight. The importance lies not in finding someone to blame but rather to learn how something so catastrophic could happen and to look for ways to prevent it from happenning in the future.	2003-03-19
US	49620110	R3EWAR0HD0PK2F	007034311X	717341509	The Manager's Book of Questions: 751 Great Interview Questions for Hiring the Best Person	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Excellent For What It's Designed To Do	THE MANAGER'S BOOK OF QUESTIONS is an invaluable resource for developing an in-depth, probing but fair, job interview. It provides questions in a variety of categories designed to assist the employer/manager/supervisor to identify the most qualified applicant and the &quot;best fit&quot; for the position. Questions are organized into sections for the purpose of determining a variety of employee characteristics and attributes. For example, some of the sections help identify motivation, the applicant's concept of teamwork, their ability to handle stress, and to think quickly. Other questions explore background, past work history, and salary expectations.<br />I recently was given a very short timeline to interview applicants for three different positions without having any previous questions available. I used THE MANAGER'S BOOK OF QUESTIONS as the basis for interviews for each of the three positions. There was enough variety in the questions so each interview was customized to fit the needs of each position. It gave me confidence to ask professional and relevant questions and some of the interviewees even commented about how tough but fair the questions were.<br />After using THE MANAGER'S BOOK OF QUESTIONS and experiencing success first-hand, I highly recommend it for anyone serious about conducting quality job interviews.	2003-03-11
US	49620110	R2L158YYY9I49V	0684862859	300965391	Force 12	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Thayer Has Written Better	FORCE 12 is a fairly exciting and thrilling story of a billionaire soft-ware magnate who creates a computerized sailboat and enters it in a gruelling and dangerous yacht race from San Francisco to Japan through the Bering Sea. He believes the publicity about the boat's software, which pilots the 155 foot Victory (which has a 30 foot beam and 75 ton keel) and replaces a 20 man crew, will increase revenue and sales in his other companies.<br />Initially the trip is flawless, but gradually accidents occur on the boat and sabotage is expected. Since there are several video cameras on the boat, every movement is witnessed by millions of viewers from around the world and the persona of a forceful man of wealth and power begins to disintegrate.  <br />Besides a mystery, the highlights of the book are the descriptions of being in a boat at the mercy of the sea. It rivals THE PERFECT STORM for its descriptions of the waves and feelings of helplessness while caught in the power of the open ocean.<br />FORCE 12 is worth reading if you're a James Thayer fan but he's certainly written better. The plot was a little too unrealistic for me but the sailing scenes made it worth the time, especially if you enjoy seeing powerful men in hopeless situations brought down to earth.	2003-03-07
US	49620110	R86DZT5B2X4XD	1568490763	83170331	Sharpe's Eagle (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #8)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Excellent Introduction to the Series	SHARPE'S EAGLE is the first in the famous series of books about Richard Sharpe and his adventures in the Napoleonic Wars of the early 19th century. I was recently introduced to the writings of the talented Bernard Cornwell and his ability to transport the reader to a different era, by reading THE WINTER KING and THE ARCHER'S TALE. In both, Cornwell displays his knowledge of war and weapons, life and death, and human nature in both Arthurian England and during The Hundred Years' War.<br />Cornwell's writing elicits a wide range of emotional responses, especially with the vivid descriptions of battle preparation, weaponry, and the battles themselves. In SHARPE'S EAGLE, Sharpe must not only fight the French, but he also encounters Lt. Colonel Simmerson, an arrogant and inept coward who purchased his rank and the honor and responsibility that goes with it. The battle-experienced Sharpe, the epitome of bravery and competency, finds himself in a personal struggle with Simmerson, who made an egregious error by losing the regiment's flag and then makes Sharpe the scapegoat. Sharpe devises a plan which, if successful, will return the regiment's honor and will protect him from the political manueverings of Simmerson and his cronies.<br />SHARPE'S EAGLE served as an excellent introduction to the series and is recommended to readers who get enjoyment from historical fiction with a courageous hero who cares about his comrades and does what he believes in no matter how difficult.	2003-03-06
US	49620110	R8IOEEG6XCUAJ	0385489129	752867547	My Losing Season	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Abuse and  Losing Forges a Winner	Writer Pat Conroy uses the 1966/67 basketball season at The Citadel where he was a senior point guard as the engine from which his views on life are produced. He played for a despotic coach, was raised by a tyrannical, abusive father, and grew up struggling to be the best he could despite being told he was worthless. The basic theme in this personal look at the best sports has to offer, is that life-long lessons can be learned when you lose, especially if you take the time to reflect upon the experience.<br />MY LOSING SEASON is a story of the human spirit; how a young man was able to survive and prosper despite being told repeatedly of his short-comings. When he was honored for success, those who had the greatest influence, his father and his coach, denigrated him. Nevertheless, Pat Conroy prevailed. I haven't read any of his other books but have seen the movies developed from them. Each has abuse in its many destructive forms as its unifying principle. MY LOSING SEASON also uses abuse as the behavior to examine and to interest its readers. It is refreshing to see that despite the pain and unfairness, victims of abuse are able to succeed. Abuse seems to forge the human spirit into a durable, determined empathic person. MY LOSING SEASON describes that process beautifully.	2003-02-27
US	49620110	R2Z9X6XI3IZJ5O	0312144474	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	A View of a Distant Time	Bernard Cornwell shows his talent and diversity by telling the story of a divided Britain during the Dark Ages through the eyes of descriptive and insightful Derfel, a Saxon-born ward of Merlin and keen observer of Arthur.<br />Although THE WINTER KING is named for Arthur, it is really a story about Britain during a time when it was divided into small kingdoms and the kings fought among themselves while also being threatenned by the Saxons. Derfel, as the narrator, gives his descriptions, observations, and insights of not only Arthur, but also Merlin, Guinevere, Lancelot, Galahad, and numerous rituals, rites and customs. Derfel puts the reader in the midst of a very brutal culture where fear of the future and the forces of nature, man and the unknown are counteracted with spells, potions and rituals. Christianity is seen as a strange, mysterious religion threatenning their way of life. The dialogue is full of insults and is often courteous to the point of hilarity.<br />Bernard Cornwell transports the reader to a different time and place, when man's baser instincts are on display. He sheds light on the way The Dark Ages might have been and in its midst is the hero Arthur. THE WINTER KING is an enlightenning, enjoyable book with plenty of action. It gives the reader an excellent taste of a distant time.	2003-02-27
US	49620110	R2HTTORMMM3L4O	0399148817	524201117	Sleep No More	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Thought - Provoking Thriller	Greg Iles shows his growth and versatility as a fiction writer by creating an absorbing psychological thriller that quickly hooks the reader and doesn't let go until the controversial yet sanguine conclusion.<br />John Waters, a financially successful self-employed geologist in the oil business is a tormented man. Even though he is happily married with a lovable, precocious daughter, Waters is haunted by a relationship that he ended many years previous. When he becomes attracted to a mysterious woman who claims to be his nefarious lover from the past, he begins a journey that ultimately challenges his sanity.<br />Eve Summer is a young and beautiful vixen who displays many of the mannerisms, and voices many of the intimate phrases that only Waters and Mallory Candler, his lover from the past, shared. Once Waters submits to temptation and has sex with Eve, his past comes rushes back to haunt him. It appears to him as though Mallory has returned but he cannot explain to himself how she can possibly be real. Therin lies the heart of the story. Who is this person who appears to have returned from the dead? how did she do it? and what does she want?<br />Since there is so much we are learning about the mind and so much we don't know and can only theorize and speculate upon, the story is possible. Even though it strains the limits of comprehension, SLEEP NO MORE is so well written it opens up the imagination and entertains the reader to the end. To say any more about the specifics of the story would ruin the experience of reading this thought-provoking thriller. It is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED for those readers of suspense looking for something different.	2003-02-09
US	49620110	R1703P5WC3VBWO	0066210844	226416014	The Archer's Tale (The Grail Quest, Book 1)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Emotions of War Not That Different	A young man living in the 14th century is challenged by his dying father to retrieve a mysterious and holy treasure stolen by an evil enigmatic marauder who had joined in the killing and destruction of the only village Thomas of Hookton had ever known. Thus the stage is set for Bernard Cornwell to educate and entertain readers about life during the political and barbaric power struggle between France and England at the start of The Hundred Years War.<br />Besides being an exciting and dramatic story, Cornwell brings to life what was for me prior to this book, a vague and boring era found in high school history books. Cornwell describes knights and their squires, archers and cross-bowmen and the tactics of war. Even though vastly different than modern war, he is able to show the emotional similarities to the modern soldier and to confirm the notion that mankind really hasn't changed that much. The emotions of fear, jealousy, love and hatred remain powerful drives found at the root of most struggles. The plot, setting, character development, and dialogue are all used to bring history during the Middle Ages to life, not only the chivalry and gallantry of knighthood, but also the brutal and viscious destruction found on the primitive battlefields.<br />I loved this book and recommend it to anyone with a need for excitement set in a time and place unfamiliar to most of us.	2003-02-09
US	49620110	R1ANX9UZHL0UFA	0684862867	421966496	The Gold Swan : A Novel	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Little Bit Different	James Thayer has managed to create another intriguing, deeply-layered story that takes the reader into a setting foreign to most of us. He transports us into the middle of Hong Kong, China where Clay Williams, chief of security for the architect of the tallest, most beautiful building in the world, acts as narrator and guide.<br />Clay is an engaging, likeable character who has lived in Hong Kong for ten years while the Gold Swan ( nicknamed for its sickle shape resembling the gentle curve of a swan's neck ) was being built. Through Clay, Thayer is able to describe Chinese society and culture and the glaring differences between their closed society and the freedom of an open society like the United States.<br />Thayer's ability to successfully compare the two systems within a thrilling mystery and a variety of sub-plots is a testament to his obvious writing talent. As the solution to the mystery is revealed amid the debris of a fallen icon, Thayer's talent as well as the reasons for gratitude for freedoms in the United States becomes readily apparant. The GOLD SWAN is an enjoyable and thought-provoking novel and is highly recommended for those looking for something a little bit different.	2003-02-04
US	49620110	R2DIH3DERHX07V	0316693006	910647309	Four Blind Mice (Alex Cross)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Fast and Unsatisfying	This is a very fast, unsatisfying read that left me feeling somewhat disappointed. It is a very routine story of Alex Cross and John Sampson and their attempt to free a falsely accused friend of Sampson's, awaiting execution for three brutal murders he didn't commit. We know he didn't commit them because the real killers are introduced in Chapter 2. However, they are taking orders from a mysteriously, powerful figure that Alex and Sampson spend the rest of the book trying to identify.<br />Along the way, throw in a love interest, some violent murders, a little sex, a family illness, and a visit to an isolation cell deep within the bowels of a maximum seurity prison to visit a killer from previous novels and you have a staccato-paced, disjointed, \\"cookie-cutter\\" beach read with few surprises and many thoughts of \\"huh?\\"<br />If I had it to do over again, and felt compelled to read this most recent effort by James Patterson(because I'm a Patterson fan and want desperately for him to pull out of his writing tailspin), I'd wait for the paperback or try to check it out of the library. Don't say you weren't warned though. FOUR BLIND MICE is a very average book.	2003-01-23
US	49620110	R1S1U0ZWQ3ENJ5	0066214122	245555180	Prey	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Good, Not Great Escapist Fictuion	This is good, not great escapist fiction, although from all the hype surrounding the release of PREY, its premise is not that far from reality. Scientists in the fields of computer technology, genetic engineering, and nanotechnology are developing the ability to produce molecular sized robots that will be able to manipulate matter at the atomic level. In PREY, these robots swarm together and develop emergent behavior (effective new behaviors developed when old behaviors are ineffective) which is life-threatenning to the scientists who have created them.<br />PREY has some very exciting and thrilling moments and offers some intriguing information about biology and animal behavior that elevates it above the typical story of \\"science runs amok'. The problems with it however, are found in the missing literary elements that, when present, make excellent and satisfying reading. There is minimal character development and the dialogue is simple-minded and at times ludicrous. For example, Jack, after witnessing his wife, who is filled with deadly particles, attempt to murder another scientist, describes his experience to her: \\"I felt tremendously uneasy\\". I guess!<br />Nonetheless, if readers are looking for a fast-paced, entertaining thriller that provides enough science and new information to speculate about the world's future, then they should enjoy PREY.	2003-01-14
US	49620110	R1ATW1LAUSQ516	0375405615	952443316	Mark Twain: An Illustrated Biography	Books	5	11	11	N	N	A Treasure	This illustrated biography of one of America's most memorable and beloved authors holds quite a few surprises for the unsuspecting reader. Anticipating anecdotes from Mark Twain's life that would portray him as a kind, altruistic, and loving man, I was shocked to learn he was also an irrascible, guilt-ridden, tight-fisted lover of alcohol and cigars who was often looking for ways to get rich.<br />He was born in 19th century Missouri and raised during a time when major political, economic, social, and cultural issues were forging America's identity. The rugged 19th century also molded Twain into an outspoken critic of those forces, providing him with an unending stream of material for his cogent and waggish observations.<br />Amid a collection of excerpts from his novels and speeches, articles and essays, as well as numerous pictures and illustrations, the authors present an insightful analysis of the man best known for writing TOM SAWYER and HUCKLEBERRY FINN. What becomes obvious is the relevance, creativity and importance of all his work, not just the books we were assigned in high school.<br />This book is a treasure; the kind of book that can be referred to often. It can give food for thought for hours of reflection. It is Highly Recommended.	2002-11-21
US	49620110	R79567K9S56LX	0316666343	784206304	The Lovely Bones	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Empathic Connection	Novels that create strong emotional responses and an empathic human connection with their readers do not occur often. When they do, readers long to spread the word in a desire to share their reading experience with as many friends and family members as posible.<br />Such is the case with THE LOVELY BONES, a story about the rape and murder of 14 y.o. Susie Salmon and her observations from her heaven during the ensuing years, as her family and friends cope with the loss. At times funny and other times sad, it is always poignant and insightful with the ability to make the reader reflect on how s/he would think and feel in similar situations.<br />This beautiful story is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED, especially for those who need to slow down and reflect upon the gifts of life and the love of family.	2002-11-17
US	49620110	R1A1B49R03EE80	0345410963	828831982	Street Boys	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Not UpTo Past Standards	During WW II, when the Nazis realized their fate was sealed, the city of Naples became a target for their frustration and maniacal tenets of supremacy and destruction. Realizing they would no longer be able to use Naples as a strategic offensive locale, the orders were given to raze it to the ground.<br />There were 200 children orphaned and abandoned in the city they identified as their home. STREET BOYS is the story of their tenacious and magical efforts to prevent the Nazis from achieving their goal.<br />The universal theme of Good vs. Evil is depicted throughout the book, many times unfortunately, in vignettes that defy belief. Carcaterra's weakness in this book is his inability to abut the edge of absurdity but never cross it. Instead, the important scenes are so incredible even the most gullible reader will struggle to swallow without choking. Several times the youth, untrained and out-manned, engage the evil Nazis in battle and emerge victorious. The \\"kiddie guerrillas\\" manage to initially arm themselves with rifles previously jettisoned in 40 ft of water which they retrieve, dry out, and learn to expertly shoot. The youthful combatants also recover machineguns, ammo, grenades and tanks with minimum casualties while maximizing the kill of the trained but inefficient enemy.<br />I have liked Carcaterra's previous work but STREET BOYS falls short of his past excellence. It is very difficult to recommend but if you must read it, use the library.	2002-11-14
US	49620110	RJQ4NT9W3EK29	0393051897	25165078	The Pursuit of Oblivion: A Global History of Narcotics	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Provocative, Educational and Entertaining	THE PURSUIT OF OBLIVION is a well-written, deeply researched history of drugs, their use, the emotional extremes drug use has created in individuals and cultures over the past 500 years, and the ineffective efforts to control it.<br />Using drugs to induce euphoria, reduce anxiety, control pain, increase physical and mental energy, and alter perceptions are, according to the author, natural activities in human experience. Richard Davenport-Hines, a highly regarded historian claims prohibition of illicit substances is a bad idea. He argues that craving the drug is what drives users to criminal behavior and if the illegal supply of drugs was legalized and made available there would be no need for the expensive and ineffective strategies of enforced abstinence and the punitive treatment of users.<br />Whether you agree with legalization or not, the history of drug-taking over the last 500 years is fascinating. His presentation of the material and the provocative argument against prohibition will create a variety of reactions. It will anger those who believe drug use is a moral plague attacking and destroying society. It will please those who require rationalization for legalization and are exhausted by the futility of the ineffective strategies in the War on Drugs and \\"Just Say No\\" campaign.<br />Regardless of how you feel about legalization, if you wonder about drug use, its origins, its effects on individuals and societies, its manufacture, marketing, and distribution, you will be enthralled with THE PURSUIT OF OBLIVION. It is Highly Recommended.	2002-10-18
US	49620110	R100LNS0HII68F	0060099089	427256056	Among the Heroes: United Flight 93 and the Passengers and Crew Who Fought Back	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An Inspiring Tribute	AMONG THE HEROES is the heart wrenching account of September 11, 2001 United Flight 93. It taps into that common bond we all share with each other. Jere Longman's chronicle of the flight's final moments evokes the natural question we ask of ourselves, \\"How would I have dealt with the few moments prior to my own immolation?\\" As readers we also naturally empathize with the survivors' emotional pain and may also ask ourselves how would we react if a loved one were on that doomed flight.<br />Longman did a very creditable job of handling the question of heroism and the conjectured roles the passengers and crew played. Some people have wanted to elevate a few into a super-hero status thereby implying the other passengers and crew members were deficient in courage and honor. Longman was able to explain and defuse this sensitive issue by emphasizing everyone's courage in the face of certain death. The reader can see what these otherwise ordinary and common citizens thought by revealing the content of phone calls placed during the take-over and prior to the devastating crash. Longman describes the sense of teamwork and camaraderie that quickly developed among these strangers in the face of overwhelming danger and extreme urgency.<br />AMONG THE HEROES is an inspiring tribute to a group of fellow Americans. We can only imagine how different our country and the world would be if this fourth suicidal terrorist mission had not been stopped. We owe them all are deepest gratitude.	2002-10-02
US	49620110	R1VX7H4L6PLEGL	0786867248	11329222	The Art of Deception	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Upper-Tier Suspense	Ridley Pearson has once again shown his ability and earned his place as an upper-tier novelist. The skillful plot development and dramatic characterizations found in THE ART OF DECEPTION is one of his better efforts. He has taken three crimes, each a priority to one of the main characters, intertwined them with deftly layed clues and an increasing sense of urgency to find a solution, and unified them in the mysterious Seattle underground.<br />The personal lives and emotional entanglements between police psychologist Daphne Matthews, Sergeant John La Moia, and Lieutenant Lou Boldt, give the characters and storyline depth and realism.<br /> This however, is NOT a \\"Harlequin Romance\\". Rather, it is a hard-hitting forensic thriller, casting the triumverate of Matthews, La Moia, and Boldt as a contentious but sensitive trio of dedicated professionals and devoted friends. Their magnetism is found in the realism of their emotions and flaws in their behavior. They have the ability to understand the criminal mind but struggle to understand their own. They are able to trick the bad guys into vulnerable situations and force them into submission. At the same time, they are learning they don't need to deceive each other in the same way.<br />Not only has Ridley Pearson written an entertaining, complex, multi-levelled thriller, but he has also laid the groundwork for future thrillers involving three highly skilled characters and the increasingly complex relationships between them.	2002-09-17
US	49620110	R3AVPW1OO47XW6	0688149626	937357785	High Crimes	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Are The Book And  Movie The Same? Or Different?	As usual the book is better than the movie. Having seen the movie first, I hesitated reading this legal thriller about a woman who is a Harvard law professor and a highly regarded defense attorney who defends her husband in a military trial. He is accused of killing 87 unarmed civilians in San Salvador thirteen years previous. He had been living with wife Claire Heller Chapman as Tom Chapman, a new identity for this Special Forces soldier named Ronald Kubik.<br />Claire is shocked and overwhelmed when he is arrested and charged. After realizing he will be convicted quickly in a military court, she decides to apply her skill as a gifted defense attorney and defend him. She must learn the nuances of military jurisprudence, so she hires ex-JAG attorney, Charles O. Grimes III ( Morgan Freeman in the movie). <br />Claire wants desperately to believe her husband is not a killer, despite the overwhelming evidence to the contrary. As the evidence is presented, she raises creative challenges that would normally cause reasonable doubt in a civilian jury. However, the judge doesn't give her any favorable rulings and Claire realizes she is working against a stacked deck. This realization helps extinguish any lingering doubt that something is wrong and convinces her of Tom's professed innocence.<br />This multi-layered plot helped erase my own doubt about the time I spent reading a story of which I already knew the outcome. There is enough difference in the storyline as well as in the complexity of the plot that I was actually unsure if the book would end in the same way as the movie. There is enough difference to recommend the book for both those who have seen the movie and those who haven't to find out how it ends. I think you will be pleasantly satisfied.	2002-09-17
US	49620110	R91NLMZNK78UX	1559777036	421611658	21 Ways to Defuse Anger and Calm People Down	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Very Practical and Useful Techniques	Michael Staver gives a very understandable and useful presentation. He defines the emotion of anger, explains its relationship to thoughts and behavior, and provides several effective techniques for use when confronted with an angry person. He also debunks several myths about anger, such as &quot;anger is a bad emotion&quot; &quot;that can't be helped&quot; and &quot;will go away if ignored&quot;.<br />As Staver explains it, anger is really a range of emotion that develops in predictable stages. As a person gets angrier, judgement and self-control decreases. He teaches you how to identify which of the five stages the angry person is experiencing and offers interventions applicable to each particular stage. <br />The information is presented in a clear, straight-forward, no-nonsense style. As a therapist in the mental health field, I often work with angry and frustrated people (both clients and co-workers). I have been able to apply the information and techniques to help others and myself improve interpersonal relationships, behavior, and ultimately quality of life. This tape fulfills the promise of changing the distorted perceptions and desructive behaviors related to anger. It is very practical and highly recommended.	2002-09-15
US	49620110	R3G7FULK0BSODN	0521625130	521286752	A Walk through the Heavens: A Guide to Stars and Constellations and their Legends	Books	5	12	14	N	N	An Excellent Primer to the Constellations	This book makes finding constellations in the Northern Hemisphere(the author has a similar book for the Southern Hemisphere)an interesting and successful endeavor. It is not just for youngsters, but for anyone with an interest in learning how to find constellations and the names of the major stars. The  diagrams illustrate the relationships between stars and constellations in simple drawings that make it like an easy-to-read roadmap. It builds from the pointer stars of the Big Dipper (Ursa Major) to all the constellations and how to find them. Instead of frustration and doubt you'll feel the exhilaration of discovery.<br />Besides the stars and their relationships to each other, there is also a &quot;Legends of the Heavens&quot; section that tells the myths and stories of the major constellations. They are fascinating and not limited to children. This book can open up the heavens for anyone who wonders about the stars. It can lay a foundation by simplifying the sky. Once these basics are learned, the  universe and hobby of astronomy can be pursued to whatever depth you want. This book is a MUST for anyone wanting to be successful in satisfying their curiosity about the locations of constellations and their relationships to each other.	2002-09-01
US	49620110	R301K8M2ADFHRO	0446530220	622113275	The Cabinet of Curiosities (Pendergast, Book 3)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Thrilling Throughout	Interest in THE CABINET OF CURIOSITIES began when I saw the cover and learned from the dust jacket that the setting was the New York Museum of Natural History. There's something magnetic about dark chambers and corridors winding deep into the guts of a building devoted to the past and holding mysteries and secrets about civilization.<br />An excavation for repair and upgrade of an apartment building begins innocently enough until the skeletons of 36 people are uncovered. Once Nora Kelly, the museum's archaeologist and enigmatic Special Agent Pendergast become involved and identify the bones as the dismembered remains of murder victims from the 1800's, the bait was cast and I was hooked.<br />This is the type of story with scenes that could be told around a campfire on a cool dark night deep in the woods. Each scene is frightening, slowly building in intensity, and leading to the story's ultimate climax. The mystery of the past is explained within the context of the present. The characters are delineated through vivid description of their physical traits and behavior, scintillating dialogue and insight into their thought processes. Each character has a well-developed personality creating strong reactions in the reader. In short, I became emotionally involved in the story and its characters.<br />If you enjoy action-adventure mysteries that require exploration of the past to make sense of the present, you'll thoroughly enjoy this thriller.	2002-08-20
US	49620110	R1LB9R20R4FWT4	0812513495	401439625	Ender's Game (Enders)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	For Everyone	I'm not a regular science fiction reader but had heard so many positive, glowing reports about ENDER'S GAME, that I decided to read it. I usually judge a book by the impact and effect it has on me; and if I can remember the story for a length of time after I've read it, I determine it is a good book. Well, I read ENDER'S GAME three weeks ago and I still think of children and war. ENDER'S GAME was a creative, excellent way to tell us what most should know- in children lie our hope and future; the values, attitudes and beliefs they learn and live by will determine the world they live in. ENDER'S GAME can challenge our own assumptions and beliefs. It is definitely worth reading.	2002-08-13
US	49620110	R3820PH3E3PDP	0385336187	700164567	Warning Signs	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Thrilling Therapy	Boulder D.A. Royal Peterson is found murdered and a female homocide detective is the prime suspect. Psychotherapist Alan Gregory is seeing a new patient whose issues remind him of the tragedy of Columbine and put him in the path of a vengeful bomber. Stephen White masterfully unites these two plot lines, creating thrilling suspense as a youthful sociopath with deep emotional scars threatens the safety of Boulder. <br />This was well-written, will hold your interest, moves at a brisk pace and has a thrilling climax. What more could you ask for in entertainment literature?	2002-08-12
US	49620110	R2BEGNVTTQA89L	078686804X	84738703	Black Water	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Suspense With Depth	BLACK WATER presents the tragic character of Archie Wildcraft, accused of murdering his loving wife and then failing to kill himself.<br />In the eyes of the District Attorney there is little doubt Archie committed the crime. Merci Rayborn, tough but emotionally scarred, feels pressure to arrest him but is unconvinced of Archie's guilt, despite all the evidence to the contrary. Instead, she is driven to prove his innocence and discover what really occurred on the night both Archie and Gwen Wildcraft were shot.<br />Merci has witnessed the love Archie professes for his slain spouse and doesn't want to see him unjustly punished. Archie invokes sorrow, rage and pity as Merci and the reader empathize with his situation. His wife has been murdered, he has a bullet in his brain, has lost his memory and is unsure of his involvement in the crime.<br />Throughout the story, the pace builds as new clues, relationships, and characters are uncovered. By the time the story reaches resolution, the pieces come expertly together and we once again have proof that T. Jefferson Parker is a writer of suspense with depth. If you are looking for a suspense novel with subplots and emotional depth expertly crafted to keep you interested and entertained, I think you will enjoy BLACK WATER.	2002-07-30
US	49620110	R2HRRV1RPUR18N	1570426228	784906101	Citizen Washington	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Talent Deserves Recognition	Special note needs to be made of Barry Bostwick's stellar performance reading CITIZEN WASHINGTON. Having listenned to numerous books on tape, I consider the readings that dramatize the voices of the characters as the most entertaining. Bostwick was able to create a different voice for every character, including John Adams, Martha Washington, the Marquis de Lafayette, Negro slaves, and many others. His interpretation of the famous and common men and women of varying ages is worthy of a &quot;Book on Tape Oscar&quot;.<br />I don't think listenning to the tape should replace reading the book, especially one of such high quality as CITIZEN WASHINGTON. However, listenning to the story is an entertaining and vital adjunct, giving life and adding realism to an excellent and creative recollection and interpretation of history. A &quot;Great Job&quot; and sincere &quot;Thank You&quot; to both Mr. Martin and Mr. Bostwick. Both the book and the tape are excellent and very highly recommended!	2002-07-30
US	49620110	R2YH3036RHNQ6G	0743204840	843105206	Jolie Blon's Bounce: A Novel	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Don't Swap Spit With Dave	Once again James Lee Burke presents a story written with characters and dialogue that keeps the reader enthralled and engrossed in a suspenseful plot.<br />While Dave is investigating the murders of two women, he runs across one of the vilest, most detestible men I can recall in literature; a real bad boy by the name of Legion. He degrades Robicheaux with such indecency that Dave is able to identify with the humiliation all Black women feel after the've had their own encounters with this sexual predator. He impacts Dave so deeply that he has flashbacks of Viet Nam. It's those flashbacks that trigger Dave's addictive behavior and unleashes his violent tormented soul on a collision course with Legion.<br />There is more to the story of course. Dave also must solve the murders. He believes that the wrong man has been arrested and his hunt for the real killer uncovers secrets and past relationships that \\"stir up the rattlesnakes\\". The result is vintage Burke and another highly recommended masterpiece.	2002-07-22
US	49620110	R3IPN32CL74VC7	1565123360	868631692	The Curve of the World	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Above Average First Effort	This is a rather pleasing novel that started as adventure and ended in heart-tugging emotion. I don't think it's as bad as some reviewers make it out to be, but I understand the criticism, especially if you're looking for action and suspense. Those moments are rare. CURVE OF THE WORLD is really a love story portraying hope and rebirth. Helen searches for her husband, Lewis, lost in the wild jungle amidst warring primitive people in Central Africa. Both encounter personal challenges to their survival but the memories, dreams, and images of the other helps keep each alive. They each experience times when their own beliefs and values are challenged but their blind son Shane keeps them both going by his honest vision of the world.<br /> My guess is we will hear from Marcus Stevens again. Although this first novel won't break any sales records, it is thought-provoking and stylish enough to attract a faithful audience willing to read him again. I am included in that group.	2002-07-22
US	49620110	R2XO5AV5W4NKKJ	0446529400	481146482	Long Lost	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Mild Disappointment	This was a mild disappointment. David Morrell is one of the authors on my \\"to read\\" list; I feel an obligation and duty to read every new book he writes. This is especially true after having read and listened to BLACK EVENING, where he explained the origin, development and intent of his writing style and then gave examples of his talent in several excellent short stories.<br />In LONG LOST, Brad Denning is confronted by a man who says he's Brad's long lost brother, Petey. Brad is stunned. He wants desperately to believe it's Petey because Brad feels responsible for his disappearance when they were both kids.<br />Written in the first person, past tense, Brad narrates his desperate search for Petey who, after being accepted into Brad's household, has stolen the most valuable things in his life, his wife and son. While Brad is convinced that the kidnapper is Petey, the authorities claim he is really Lester Dant, an orphaned, troubled con man.<br />As the story progresses, it became apparant to me that Brad is motivated to find his wife and son more by wanting to hurt Dant than the expressed love for his family. He begins to act as he believes Dant would act in different situations as a way to track him down. Using that method he uncovers Dant's abusive past, and although troubling, it's not enough to diminish his relentless search for Dant and hopefully Brad's wife and son. The well-written climax has action and a personal conflict but unfortunately is fairly predictable and not up to Morrell's standards. I'd suggest you only read it if it's on your own \\"to read\\" list.	2002-07-01
US	49620110	R108173PIGSLHM	0345452062	556257635	Rise to Rebellion (The American Revolutionary War)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Meaningful Historical Fiction	Reading RISE TO REBELLION was an exciting and inspirational learning experience. Like every other American who took U.S. History in high school, I was exposed to the story about the colonies' break from England and their journey toward independence and liberty. However, when it was a requirement to graduate, the entire story was dry, meant little and was mostly forgotten. Having the opportunity to re-learn the story in this format has piqued my interest to read more. The Stamp Act, Boston Tea Party, Lexington and Concord, First and Second Continental Congress, et al are not just names of past events but were actual occurrences that had life altering impact on real people then and now. Shaara brings to life the ideas, concerns, fears and issues of the time when this country struggled with gaining independence from England and establishing a new form of self-government. He helps describe how it all came about by breathing life into the names memorized in high school.<br />For a valuable experience, as a catalyst for future reading, and in preparation for his next volume when the actual War for Independence is fought, reading RISE TO REBELLION is Highly Recommended!	2002-06-19
US	49620110	R196RT5LFAKG1L	0670215821	527630151	Chickenhawk	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Hats Off-Very Well Done	I read the book and listenned to the audiotape with L.J. Ganser as the reader/narrator. What a powerful experience! Mason's words and Ganser's voice made it seem like a friend was telling about his life. It brought back so many memories of a time when this country was in such turmoil and confusion. Robert Mason and I are roughly the same age and his experiences as a young man were so different than my own. The danger he faced while flying Hueys in Happy Valley is mind boggling. His ability to convey the experience helps others learn and hopefully respect and honor him and all the others who were put in that situation. It was an ugly, horrible time in our history.<br />His words come as close as any to describing the daily routine of facing death and the power of the mind to defend itself by using humor and diversions. Mason has done a masterful job. I think every American, especially the youth of today, should read this powerful memoir.	2002-06-17
US	49620110	R2HU4MB0YC6ATV	0679453067	668170725	Pursuit: A Novel	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Perry's Talent Is On Display	Thirteen bodies are found dead in a restaurant, and the father of one of the victims believes his son was the main target. He wants to hire Professor Millikan, a world-renown expert on homocide, to find the killer. Millikan refers him to Roy Prescott and from there the pursuit has begun.<br />Readers learn quickly that the killer's name is Varney and he is a more than worthy adversary for Prescott. We follow Prescott as he attempts to first identify Varney and then learn how he acts in different situations. Prescott's plan is to set a trap anticipating how Varney will react and to be there to catch him.<br />Thomas Perry has many skills as a writer of suspense. He has a patient way of laying the groundwork and maneuvering the characters into position for thrilling and unexpected encounters. He uses a technique of describing the action from one character's point of view and then retraces the event from the other character's perspective, resulting in a fuller, more entertaining and involved understanding of the plot.<br />Perry is also a master of surprise and cleverness with the ability to sustain suspense throughout the story. Each character has distinct personality traits, values, motivations and styles. They develop relationships with each other, using dialogue so realistic it feels like you're eavesdropping. Of course, anyone who has read Thomas Perry is aware of his talent. Without revealing any more of the story, it is fair to say his talent is on display in PURSUIT. It is highly recommended for both old and new readers; you'll love it.	2002-06-11
US	49620110	R3RIWT2QZ8YR3C	0316154059	817062475	City of Bones	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Searching For Redemption	This is another excellent entry in the Hieronymous Bosch series, in which we continue to learn about him, his past, and what makes him tick. In CITY OF BONES Bosch investigates the death of a boy killed 20 years ago, whose bones are found in the Hollywood Hills. As he uncovers evidence about the crime, Bosch meets a female cop who awakens feelings and memories for him.<br />As Bosch continues to work the case and piece the crime together, he confronts challenges and hurdles that complicate his life and add complexity to the story. Connelly takes the reader along with Bosch through his struggles and for me it became apparant he was looking for redemption by solving the case. Does he find it? That's open for discussion. In typical Connelly fashion, there are a few surprises and a stunner at the end, after you think the story is over. It's well worth the trip but looking beyond CITY OF BONES, I ask myself, \\"What's next?\\". I can't wait to find out.	2002-05-29
US	49620110	R81NX8X8GF8DL	0306809907	859939862	Friday Night Lights: A Town, A Team, And A Dream	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Misplaced Values	Basically this is a story of high school football in Odessa Texas, where the Permian High Panthers are seen as much more than football players. The players are treated like celebrities, and the pressure and expectations placed upon them by adults living vicariously through the team's success or failure becomes too much for many. It is a sad chronicle of the pressure placed on teenage athletes by adults whose own lives are unfulfilled. Their own self esteem is based upon the performance of young adults. When those young adults &quot;fail&quot;, they are made to feel responsible for &quot;letting the town down&quot;.<br />Athletics and high school sports are important and teach many valuable lessons; teamwork, hard work, sacrifice to name a few. FRIDAY NIGHT LIGHTS, on the other hand, paints a picture of the downside of sports. It is a picture that should be seen by all those who care about our youth and what we are teaching them.	2002-05-25
US	49620110	R1M41DAX0BQFDJ	1555253334	978541266	Beyond Survival: The Next Chapter : A Pow's Message on Hwo the Power of the Human Spirit Can Bring Personal Growth and Triumph	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Powerful Reading and Listenning Experience	Gerald Coffee was a POW in North Viet Nam for seven years, most of it spent in a small cell alone, out of visual contact with the other POWs. In this powerful tape, the first thing evident is the love of life and spirit of community heard in his voice. There doesn't appear to be a hint of bitterness or revenge. Instead he tells how he survived and what he learned from the traumatic experience to become a wiser and more generous person since his release in 1973. He advises the listeners to have faith, and learn to rely upon themselves,others, Country and their God. He gives examples of how he was able to survive by practicing what he preaches and encourages all of us to apply the same lessons to our own lives and our own &quot;struggle for survival&quot;. <br />Gerald Coffee survived for a reason. The message he gives could be that reason. It is very inspirational and highly recommended.	2002-05-25
US	49620110	R221V2GFXUSWF6	0486209687	569961316	The Illustrations from the Works of Andreas Vesalius of Brussels (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Absolutely Incredible!	I first heard about Andreas Vesalius when I read about his work in BODY OF KNOWLEDGE. His drawings have been the basis for THE ATLAS OF HUMAN ANATOMY and GRANT'S DISSECTOR and other reference books used in Anatomy classes at medical schools throughout the country.<br />What makes his work incredible is to think the fascinating illustrations of the human anatomy were researched and drawn by Vesalius in 1543. His book has been called &quot;one of the most noble and magnificent volumes in the history of printing&quot; and &quot;one of the greatest treasures of Western Civilization&quot;. More incredible is the manner in which he performed the dissections and the relative accuracy of the drawings which have survived to this day. <br />The introduction gives an absorbing and enlightening account of Vesalius' life in the first half of the 16th century. The book is for the curious and those interested in anatomy, art, graphic arts and printing. You will read and look in awe and wonder about the history and progress of medicine and science.	2002-05-25
US	49620110	R2YEP01L2363KG	B000066TRR	506152537	Body of Knowledge : One Semester of Gross Anatomy, the Gateway to Becoming a Doctor	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Biography of a Cadaver	Steve Giegerich has written a book about a subject matter not only fascinating and mysterious but for some bordering on the gruesome and macabre. He takes us along with four first year medical students as they journey through the Medical Gross and Developmental Anatomy course and lab at the University of Medicine and Dentistry, Newark.<br />The book focuses on the four students who work at the same lab table and upon Lewis, the cadaver they have been provided to dissect. Despite the difficulty of learning to identify tissues, organs, veins and nerves, muscles and bones, they must also overcome their innate fear and resistance to dissect a fellow human. To make it easier for them, the identity of the cadaver isn't given to the students. However, readers are introduced to Lewis and learn about his life and personality and the human qualities and characteristics that made him unique and special, more than merely a lab subject. Even though the students don't know the specifics about Lewis, most seem to develop a profound respect for the person who has been so generous by donating his body to science. In fact, by the end of the semester, each student has developed a personal relationship and enduring memories of their experiences with Lewis, culminating in a formalized good-bye to this special person.<br />For the reader, this unique book provides insight into the rigors of medical school and creates a different perspective on the meaning of \\"donating your body to science\\". It also traces the origins and history of dissection and of the illustrations used in the ATLAS OF HUMAN ANATOMY and GRANT'S DISSECTOR. Most importantly, BODY OF KNOWLEDGE helps the reader gain an understanding and respect for the generous people who donate their bodies so others can learn. For those reasons this book is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED.	2002-05-23
US	49620110	RQ8DC9TQX9JMZ	0446606022	214116597	Bad Chili	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Bad Chili Is Good and Hot	Initially, I had to decide if the opening chapter was too far out for even Hap Collins and Leonard Pine, the unique but very real main characters in Joe Lansdale's crime series. However, after Hap left the hospital in the midst of in-patient (for insurance purposes) rabies treatment to look for his friend Leonard, the prime suspect in a biker's murder, I decided that once again, Lansdale had laid the groundwork and set the stage for an entertaining escape into one of his thrillers.<br />With the setting in East Texas and characters named Horse Dick, Big Man Mountain, Pierre, King Arthur and Jim Bob Lee, Lansdale manages to construct a plot around grease stealling, video gay bashing, possible police corruption, murder, torture, spousal abuse, and love between Hap and the dynamic and feisty Brett. (She's more than a handful and willing to meet every one of Hap's demands, sarcastic comments, and character flaws head-on. She'd be a welcome addition to any future entries into the series).<br />Obviously, I'm very satisfied with my decision to continue reading. In fact, reflecting back upon the story, even being bitten by a rabid squirrel makes sense. This is another highly rated Joe Lansdale entree.	2002-05-13
US	49620110	R1E1UIMHHL54A5	0871138344	570501457	The Bureau and the Mole: The Unmasking of Robert Philip Hanssen, the Most Dangerous Double Agent in FBI History	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Violation Of Trust	After reading this non-fiction account of Robert Hanssen, the high level FBI employee who divulged highly classified, top secret information to the Soviets, I again have realized how ignorant and helpless the common man really is. There is so much occuring of which the average U.S. citizen is unaware that trust continues to be the most vital yet vulnerable characteristic we possess. When that trust is violated, as it was by Robert Hanssen, I realize how important it is to have honorable men and women in positions of power.<br />David Vise does a credible job of describing Hanssen's background and the psychological factors that contributed to Hanssen becoming a traitor. Vise describes the contradiction between Hanssen's religiosity and his proclivity for exhibitionism and aberrant sexual behavior. He also describes the way Hanssen contacted the Soviets and the spycraft he used to pass information to them.<br />However, I didn't realize the depth and impact of Hanssen's betrayal until reading the appendix. It is there that his deeds are summarized and I realized what a dangerous and despicable man Robert Hanssen is. His arrogance and narcissism allowed him to film his wife during very private moments and then show their sexual expression of those moments to others. His deluded self-appraisal and need to feel important let him reveal Top Secret and high priority information which was potentially catastrophic to the United States.<br />His violation of trust makes him one of the lowest forms of human. Unfortunately, I doubt Hanssen has the personal bricks and mortar necessary to self-reflect and fully realize the gravity of his misdeeds, to acknowledge and feel guilt, and seek forgiveness.<br /> I'm sure that most who read David Vise's book will be educated about a traitor and will have a strong reaction. If you are looking for something beyond pure entertainment and to shake you out of complacency, I think Bureau and the Mole will do it.	2002-04-25
US	49620110	R3N2XLO4WK54OX	0385495854	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The Realism Will Hold You Hostage	Jeff Talley, Chief of Police of Bristo Camino, a small suburban community in So. Calif., is confronted with a hostage situation that challenges all of his skills and experience. Talley, an ex- SWAT member and hostage negotiator, is plunged into a nightmare that ultimatly threatens the lives of his wife and daughter.<br />Robert Crais creates a wide variety of characters with vivid description and realistic dialogue the reader can almost hear. The three young hoodlums that impulsively rob a store and in their escape hole up in a home owned by a man connected to organized crime are genuinely realistic. The feelings of fear and anger they instill in their victims are felt by the reader as well.<br />The story is fast-paced and full of suspense and thrills that keep the pages turning. What sets Crais's stories apart is his ability to describe the tension the characters feel with a style that puts the reader inside their heads, depicting and experiencing their personalities and thought processes in a variety of situations. Crais has continued to develop his craft to the point where readers eagerly anticipate his next book. Don't pass up this well-written, deeply felt fiction. Its realism will hold you a hostage in its grasp and entertain you.	2002-04-20
US	49620110	R3MP4X8PTT2T2H	0375410627	177766244	Ava's Man	Books	5	3	6	N	N	I'd Like You To Meet Charlie	What a beautiful story! Not often does one have the opportunity to read a book that captures the essence of a man and a time and place gone forever.<br />Even though the lifestyle he describes is foreign to most readers, Rick Bragg has the ability to introduce you to his grandfather, spin stories about his life, and make you cry at his death.<br />Even though the culture of the Old South as lived by the poor, hard-working and hard-living white folk from Alabama and Georgia of the 20's, 30's, and 40's is lost forever, Bragg has the ability to insert you in the midst of that time and feel the kinship and love of family, the hard-living and hard-dying.<br />Rick Bragg never personally knew his grandfather. After hearing the stories of his life from the many old friends and relatives he got to know Charlie Bundrum well. Fortunately, through Bragg's talent, he has written a beautiful story and I have had the pleasure to know Charlie too. I would have liked him and I think you will too.	2002-04-17
US	49620110	RS3GFD8O8EO84	0684854139	591307244	Harmful Intent: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	An Insightful Look at Medicine vs. the Law	As I was scrolling through upcoming books to be published I saw that WRONGFUL DEATH by Baine Kerr is due in May. I remember reading HARMFUL INTENT and reminding myself to definitely read his next book because HARMFUL INTENT was so well-written. This legal thriller contains beautiful prose that gives the creative plot life. It's a story of a lawyer representing Terry Winter, a woman suing a doctor for his misdiagnosis and unwillingness to treat a lump in her breast. It's Peter Moss' second chance to sue Dr. Bondurant, having lost a previous case to the arrogant piece of humanity. As the trial progresses the reader discovers Terry Winter and her daughter, Emmy are lovable and have a very special relationship. The reader also discovers Dr. Bondurant's harmful intent, that he didn't report the tumor for a very selfish and repugnant reason that was startlingly revealed with a well-timed and fine sense of drama. <br />HARMFUL INTENT is an absorbing examination of breast cancer within the warring worlds of medicine and law and a mother's transcendent courage. If Kerr's insight and humanity is as evident in his upcoming book, it too will be highly recommended.	2002-04-08
US	49620110	R1SQ9ISP0PZMMQ	0385503822	782272714	The Summons	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Read It Anyway	This is a fairly fast read with a simple plot: Ray Atlee, law professor and older brother of Forrest, is summoned to his father, old and honest terminally ill Judge Atlee. The Judge, isolating himself in his once elegant mansion, Maple Run, is found dead when Ray arrives. As he explores the run-down old house and rummages through the piles of dusty newspapers and hoarded junk, Ray discovers 27 boxes full of cash. <br />The meat of the story deals with Ray's relationship to the money; what to do with it, the growing awareness that others are after it, his attempts to find out how it got inside Maple Run, and to rectify his father's apparant involvement.<br />From reading the other reviews, I expected THE SUMMONS to be a terrible effort. It wasn't as bad as some have complained nor is it one of Grisham's best. It presents a situation that challenges a man's personal values and moral code and the torment and temptation greed and wealth causes. The story was presented in such a way that I tried to imagine myself in the same predicament as Ray. Any story that stimulates self reflection and teaches a lesson is worth reading for me.	2002-04-08
US	49620110	R1YYZW5KU4HM8	0525945768	106793233	The Oath (Dismas Hardy)	Books	5	19	21	N	N	A STUNNER !	For those who are faithful readers of John Lescroart and have developed a \\"reader relationship\\" with his two primary characters, Abe Glitsky and Dismas Hardy, THE OATH is a stunner!<br />As usual, Lescroart's plotting, characterization, and dialogue are excellent. However, what sets this book apart from his previous work, is the emotional reactions it creates. Reading THE OATH is very similar to watching two best friends fight and not being able to do anything about it. Glitsky, San Francisco Chief of Homocide, and Hardy, ex-District Attorney turned brilliant defense counsel, are at odds over the guilt or innocence of Dr. Eric Kensing, the prime suspect in the murder of the CEO of a high profile but financially troubled physicians' medical group.<br />Throughout the book, the reader can only passively stand by while Glitsky and Hardy present their points of view and reveal their own personality traits and unique perspectives. Lescroart masterfully introduces and develops several suspects and motives in this complex, multi-layered legal puzzle. However, the concern for both Hardy and Glitsky is never far away. As the suspense and interest build toward the story's climax I was stunned and begging for answers in the final pages. Thankfully Lescroart provided satisfaction, but you'll have to read this highly recommended thriller to find out how.	2002-03-26
US	49620110	R1RLUY0CDXNDAR	1563824744	575747409	Rapid Reading Made E-Z	Books	1	6	13	N	N	Major Disappointment	Since I love to read and have so many books on my &quot;to read&quot; list, I am always on the alert for any method that will help me read faster while maintaining my comprehension and still enjoying the beauty of a &quot;well-turned phrase&quot;. Naturally, when I saw RAPID READING in the library, I took a few minutes to investigate. The claims of &quot;reading&quot; 25,000 words/minute and comprehending 3/4ths of it sounds incredible...and ludicrous. IF that were possible, I don't believe it can be taught. If someone is able to look at each page in the &quot;photo-focus state&quot; and retain 75% of it I think they're born with that gift (lucky them!). However, since I had been attracted to the book, I spent some time skimming the whole thing. When I had reached the end I concluded that I had actually employed some of the steps author Paul Scheele suggests; I was relaxed, interested, was looking for key words, and skimmed each page. I don't know how many words are in RAPID READING, but after skimming the book from cover to cover and taking approximately 25 minutes to do so, I believe I wasted my time. I really didn't learn anything new, especially how to &quot;photo-focus&quot;. Actually, if you know how to skim, you know how to &quot;rapid read&quot;. Save your money and skim the book in the library. 75% comprehension at 25,000 words per minute, you can't go wrong.	2002-03-10
US	49620110	R2Y5POW2C3XAJ8	0792723406	930468436	Midwives	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Powerful Reading and Listenning Experience	I started to read MIDWIVES to see what it was like and quickly became engrossed in a fourteen yr. old daughter's insight and retelling of her mother's story as a midwife on trial for the death of one of her delivering patients.<br />Briefly summarizing the story: Sibyl Danforth is on trial for the death of Charlotte Bedford who died during childbirth at home. Sibyl performed a C-section to save the baby. The state contends Charlotte was still alive when the C-section was done and is the cause of death.<br />Besides being told from the daughter's point of view, each chapter is headed by an excerpt from Sibyl's diary. In addition to playing an integral part of the story, the diary quotes give the reader enormous insight into Sibyl's thoughts and feelings during private moments and her own understanding of past and present events.<br />The story educates the reader about pregnancy, the historical relevance of midwifery, and the legal stategies used in a trial. Most importantly it conveys the emotions surrounding birth, the potential loss of freedom to do what one loves, and the powerful relationship between a mother and a daughter. <br />Reading the story is enlightening. If you really want to experience the story however, also listen to the unabridged audio. Valerie Leonard does a magnificent reading especially conveying the love Sibyl had for her work. It is powerful and Highly recommended!	2002-03-09
US	49620110	R1S43DHDHEL5ZA	0312266154	919889268	Killing the Shadows	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A High Level Of Literary Suspense	This is the third novel I've read by Val McDermid and I continue to be satisfied and grateful for the high quality of her work.As in PLACE OF EXECUTION and MERMAIDS SINGING, the plot of KILLING THE SHADOWS is intriguing, the pacing excellent, the setting vivid and realistic, and the characterization and dialogue captivating.<br />Fiona Cameron, an educator and forensic psychologist, is at odds with the police for being ignored and minimized during a past investigation. Although she has reservations about ever helping them again, she becomes deeply involved in the hunt for a serial killer when it becomes apparant that thriller writers like her lover are being targeted.<br />Some have said elements of the story are predictable. I agree in the same sense that riding on a river that flows into roaring rapids and a climactic waterfall is predictable. The reader is taken on an inevitable journey but it doesn't take away from the thrills along the way. McDermid captures the different moods in the story with dialogue that is so descriptive and appropriate for the different situations that it paints a picture putting the reader there as an unobtrusive observer.<br />Val McDermid writes at a high level of literary suspense and KILLING THE SHADOWS continues her excellent work. It is highly recommended!	2002-03-05
US	49620110	R1HX3JE0YT300S	0316695068	546468505	Hell to Pay: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Another Gritty Thriller	In this realistic and thought- provoking crime story set in the poor violent section of Washington D.C., Derek Strange, who owns and operates a private investigator business, is hired by two women investigators who have been working with APIP (Aiding Prostitutes In Peril). They hire Strange to help find a john who has been acting weird and talking about rough sex. He is also hired to follow a friend's daughter and the man she is dating. His friend Quinn becomes involved with one of the women investigators and helps Strange coach a Youth football team. His interactions with the team add depth to the characters and provides the setting, situation and relationships for the main action of the story. The innocence of youth football is juxtoposed within The Culture of Violence found in inner cities. Pelecanos intentionally uses Washington D.C. which is ironically just miles from the seat of government of the most powerful nation in the world.<br />HELL TO PAY made me angry and pulled at my heartstrings. It is written so descriptively that it feels real; it takes the reader to the projects and portrays and examines the effect of a young innocent victim's death on everyone else in the story. The story also describes racism and illustrates how kids grow up fast, are exposed to violence, drugs, and fear. Strange, who wants to find the killer before the police, struggles with his own beliefs and values. HELL TO PAY will transport most readers to where they've never been. It's worth the trip!	2002-02-25
US	49620110	R2ZU1MFCYZ5T6Q	0375411070	628573598	Basket Case	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Another Colorful Cast Of Characters	Jack Tagger, a talented and devoted investigative reporter, has been demoted at the Union Register. As punishment for criticizing the downsizing and sale of the paper to Race Maggad, the CEO of a newspaper chain, Tagger is assigned to the obituary desk where he applies his talent to writing clever articles for the well-known and recently deceased of South Florida.<br />Cleo Rio, grieving young wife and bimbo of Jimmy Stoma, ex-rock star, tells Tagger a suspicious story of how Jimmy drown in the Bahamas. Stoma's sister, Janet, an on-line exhibitionist, has suspicions of her own about Stoma's death, especially after discovering he has no autopsy stitches and the body is ordered to be cremated. Enter Jack Tagger, hired to investigate the death of the 60's rock star, who reminds Jack of his youth and a time when journalism was an honest and respected profession.<br />Hiaasen masterfully sets the stage to criticize newspaper chains and offers his insights into the music industry while involving the reader in an entertaining mystery. Jack Tagger is quick-witted, well-armed and ready with sarcastic comments and retorts to any of the colorful cast of characters with whom he converses. The mystery of Jimmy Stoma's life with his band, the Slut Puppies, and his untimely death is complex and clever and challenges the reader to figure out the motive and the killer in between laughs. As usual, Hiaasen has created a wide variety of personalities who talk to each other in hilarious dialogue. He has written another winner. BASKET CASE is highly recommended!	2002-02-25
US	49620110	R383JY283HU4OY	0316601039	194776169	Cold Zero: Inside the FBI Hostage Rescue Team	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Begs For A Sequel	COLD ZERO is not your typical Rambo insider look at a macho unit of Alpha males exposed to danger and violence who save society by indescribable feats of heroism. Instead it is the unique perspective of a former speechwriter who aspired to challenge himself and make a difference in American society by becoming an FBI agent. It describes the extreme mental and physical torment he endured and overcame to be selected. After paying his dues as an agent, he applied for the elite Hostage Rescue Team and became a sniper. He gives insight into Ruby Ridge and Waco, Texas operations and the effect they had on him personally.<br />The importance of the book is found in its perception of the United States in terms of vulnerability, preparation and response to a terrorist attack as seen through the eyes of the FBI and its specialized departments and programs. The book was written prior to September 11 but after the FBI was designated the lead agency in any foreign or domestic act of terrorism. Whitcomb describes what Hostage Recovery, Critical Incidence Response, and the Strategic Information Operations Center are designed to do in a crisis. His book now begs for a sequel which would inform and educate the public on its operations post 9/11. He could follow up a very good book with another. If it is close to being as good as COLD ZERO it will be HIGHLY RECOMMENDED!	2002-02-11
US	49620110	R27T0ZU7J882AS	0446527130	118908960	Envy	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Brown's Plot Is The Envy Of Other Authors	ENVY is a terrific novel that has several reasons to recommend it. It is cleverly written with an ingenious plot, captivating characters, and a style that begs for rapid reading.<br />A wheelchair-bound author, Parker Evans, submits a novel's first chapter to Maris, daughter of Daniel Matherly, CEO of a successful publishing company. Maris becomes intrigued by what she reads and travels to meet the author. She becomes increasingly attracted to Parker and the novel he is writing. That novel is being written and revealed throughout the book. The \\"novel within a novel\\" technique describes and develops the personality traits of its author. As that story unfolds the reader is forced to wonder if the novel in progress is autobiographical and, if so, is the author (Parker) lethal and a threat to Maris. The reader begins to find parallels in the novel being written and the past experiences of Parker. As the story progresses , the reader begins to figure out what has happenned in the past and who the potential victims are. As all the parts of the story start coming together, the book can't be put down until it's finished.<br />The ingenuity and skill of Sandra Brown is very apparent. She has done an outstanding job of developing a complex plot with many sub-plots, interesting characters and relationships. ENVY will hold your interest throughout and is HIGHLY RECOMMENDED !!!	2002-02-04
US	49620110	R3O87G6LP66JQ8	1891620231	54880889	The Odds: One Season, Three Gamblers, and the Death of Their Las Vegas	Books	4	4	4	N	N	The Powerful Drive Of Gambling	THE ODDS... is a non-fiction account of sports betting in Las Vegas during the football and college basketball seasons in 1999/2000. It gives insight into betting from three perspectives: small-time, big-time, and the bookmaker. The book provides some information for the curious that is interesting and helpful in understanding how betting lines are made, the effect and purpose of moving the line, the impact of internet betting, and Congress' interest in abolishing betting on college sports. <br />The book also chronicles the agony, torment, and excitement of sports betting. Unfortunately, for those who are already living the gambler's lifestyle there's little in this book they don't already know. For those considering using sports betting as their sole source of income, they might think twice after reading this book. However, acknowledging that gambling is such a powerful drive, I'm afraid they'll want to find out for themselves. Good Luck!	2002-01-29
US	49620110	R2XIRFU5OI9HQG	0440225957	325575522	King Suckerman	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Always A Price To Pay	A crime novel with a \\"moral to the story\\"; Dmitri Karras, a pot-smoking, dope-selling, basketball-playing, fun-loving guy with no goals or direction. His friend is Marcus Clay, a Viet Nam vet trying to get started with a small record business. They cross paths with Wilton Cooper, an ex-con who picks up B.R. Claggett, an anti-social guy who kills without remorse. Wilton and Claggett go on a crime spree, killing several people, including Rasheed, a young clerk that worked for Marcus Clay. There's a final showdown and Dmitri learns that there's always a price to pay. This novel has excellent dialogue and characterizations of the 70's post Viet Nam, post hippie, marijuana days. It teaches that nothing is simple and easy. George Pelecanos' novels are instructive and entertaining and KING SUCKERMAN will not disappoint.	2002-01-28
US	49620110	R267V9BA1RVO5Z	0446401870	945250241	Mucho Mojo	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Muchas Gracias, Senor Lansdale	I've found another author to read regularly. This novel is my introduction to Hap Collins and Leonard Pine, two friends who happen to have one of the most original and realistic relationships I've read. Hap travels to La Borde, Texas with Leonard, who has been left his recently deceased uncle's old house. As they are fixing up the house they discover a small skeleton and several kiddie porn magazines buried under the floor. Leonard cannot accept that Uncle Chester was a ...child murderer so he persuades Hap to help him clear Chester's name. That decision opens the door to an expertly plotted and neatly tied together mystery. Lansdale gives pieces of information that are not contrived but flow into the story and add interest and color. He introduced characters and relationships that I became interested in and wanted to learn more about. The sarcasm and repartee between Hap and Leonard is reason enough to read the book. Put that clever and realistic dialogue in a mystery full of colorful characters that also has some very suspenseful moments and you have a few hours of rich, first-rate entertainment. I highly recommend MUCHO MOJO.	2002-01-28
US	49620110	R12KZ5LSLDQ2H6	0316693235	147933002	Violets Are Blue ~ Detective Alex Cross Series	Books	3	6	6	N	N	The Ending Doesn't Save This One	As I was reading VIOLETS ARE BLUE I began to have the same feelings of disappointment I had when I was reading ROSES ARE RED. In both I perservered and finished reading to the conclusion. However, in ROSES ARE RED, the epilogue salvaged the book. Not the case with VIOLETS ARE BLUE. Nothing can save it. There are two disconnected storylines in VIOLETS..., the hunt for vampire killers and the search, confrontation, and identification of Mastermind, Alex Cross' nemesis in several of Patterson's books. Neither storyline was very thrilling or suspenseful. Instead, hunting the vampires seemed like a series of killings described to gross the reader out with brutality, blood and guts. The interactions and final encounter with the Mastermind was also a disappointment. His identity was no surprise and the only question (and hope) is that he will remain dead.<br />Patterson has shown ability in the past, as exemplified by THE MIDNIGHT CLUB. I only wish he would return to the quality of that work rather than the quantity of his recent work. As much as it feels uncomfortable I really cannot recommend VIOLETS ARE BLUE.	2002-01-18
US	49620110	R68GCIHPJRO88	0446677922	727646325	The Bottoms	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Provocative Realism	When I read that Joe Lansdale was an excellent writer that few knew about, I wanted to see for myself. Every positive comment about his writing is true. He has the ability to transport you to a different time and place and gives you a vivid picture of what living there is like.<br />In THE BOTTOMS, he takes you to East Texas in the 1930's amidst the racism, ignorance, poverty and violence as well as the friendships and family ties during a less complex and simpler time. In essence, THE BOTTOMS is the nostalgic, forlorn memoirs of a fictional Southerner on his deathbed. Harry Crane narrates the story of finding the mutilated, ravaged body of a Black woman and the subsequent community reaction and search for the killer by the part-time constable Jacob Crane, Harry's father.<br />The power of the novel is found in the characterizations and dialogue. It is so well written it feels like you're right there with Harry as he eavesdrops on secret conversations. You can feel the tension and the anger and disgust developing within you toward some of the characters as they reveal their racial prejudice and hatred. Race relations are written as they really happenned and it helps you realize what it must have been like to live then. It illustrates a shameful past and adds depth and realism to the history lessons we all learned in school. It feels like you are there and makes you want to crawl into the pages and confront the evil first hand. Any writer that has that ability should be read. Joe R. Lansdale has that ability. THE BOTTOMS is highly recommended.	2002-01-16
US	49620110	R2YVD258SL3X5N	0425180433	817508098	Ten Thousand Islands (A Doc Ford Novel)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	White Upholds Florida's Reputation	This is a first-time read of one of Randy Wayne White's books. He's highly regarded in mystery circles and is from the talent rich Florida area (Carl Hiassen is my favorite). In TEN THOUSAND ISLANDS he doesn't do anything to tarnish his or Florida's reputation. <br />Doc Ford is a marine biologist who captures sea creatures for laboratories around the world. He becomes involved in a mystery that began 15 years earlier when a gifted girl found a 400 year old medallion and was later found hanging, supposedly by suicide. After her grave is dug up, Ford becomes deeply involved with a wide array of unforgettable characters. The father-son duo of rich politicians in search of higher office are the main villains set square in the sights of acid-tongued Ford and his uncanny intelligence and physical ability to get out of trouble. He doggedly pursues those who interfere with his attempt to solve the mystery and find the medallion. He cleverly disposes of his enemies in unique ways that are creative and permanent. This was a fast and entertaining read, well worth the time on a lazy Sunday afternoon.	2002-01-04
US	49620110	R2AXC4765CGWRX	0679459626	466482043	Flesh and Blood	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Insightful and Entertaining	Jonathan Kellerman continues his successful Alex Delaware series with this story of self-forgiveness and redemption. Ten years ago Alex treated a precocious and defiant 15 year old who dropped out of treatment after a couple of sessions. She returned six years later after Alex had seen her acting as the main event at a bachelor's party and confronted him with what he saw. His need to expiate his feelings of guilt and shame served as the prime motivation to find out what happenned to her when she turns up missing four years later. What follows is vintage Kellerman: the psychological insights, the complex, thought-provoking plot, and the ability to delineate characters with description, dialogue and behavior. Kellerman's training as a psychologist gives Alex Delaware an educated perspective and insight of the world and characters with which he lives. His interview technique is skillful and artistic and after he speaks with an important character Alex offers analysis and description of the character's personality traits.<br />FLESH AND BLOOD is one of Kellerman's best. At times it is erotic, educational and suspenseful, but is always entertaining and satisfying. Highly Recommended !!!	2001-12-31
US	49620110	RC3BPLQ1NEZ56	0743203321	229095796	Dark Hollow	Books	3	5	9	N	N	OnThe Edge Of Reality	At the risk of incurring the wrath of Connolly lovers I didn't connect with DARK HOLLOW. It is a long death-filled story that takes the reader to the edge of reality and believability. Ex- NY detective, Charlie Parker becomes deeply involved in a manhunt for Billy Purdue, accused of killing his own wife and child. Charlie, whose sense of loss from the violent deaths of his own wife and child a year earlier drives him in the pursuit, doesn't believe Billy is the killer. Instead, an old man who haunts the woods of Maine and the minds and dreams of all the inhabitants there, becomes the object of Charlie's relentless search.<br />There are some scary scenes and I can understand how some readers and critics believe this is a &quot;stunning successor&quot; to EVERY DEAD THING  and a &quot;terrifying and ingenious novel&quot;. However, for me, it stretched reality too far. Charlie survived too many gunfights, bullet holes, whacks on the head, chases through the woods, and swims in icy waters for me. This isn't to say that some readers won't enjoy DARK HOLLOW because they will. I'm just not one of them.	2001-12-05
US	49620110	R1BV2BYTAFLCDX	052594575X	405050093	The Hearing (Dismas Hardy)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Overly Long But Satisfying	Abe Glitsky, the homocide detective who is a close friend with Dismas Hardy, discovers that the victim of what appears to be a senseless murder is his daughter. Abe has kept his paternity a secret and has watched Elaine Wager develop into a talented attorney. Heroin addict Cole Burgess is charged with the crime and what at first seems to be a simple case of robbery/murder develops into a complex maze of power and corruption. Hardy is hired to defend Burgess and Glitsky fights his own battles in this overly long but entertaining story. There are several characters to keep track of and by remembering each character's personality and behavior, the story has more depth than the typical legal fiction. Lescroart's skill is apparant as you read how each character struggles with the personal conflicts that define them. He interweaves all the subplots and clues into a coherant whole that brings reader satisfaction by the last page.	2001-12-03
US	49620110	R32XYMRPO4TKHR	0553801449	837851195	Incriminating Evidence	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Siegel Pens Another Winner	Sheldon Siegel has followed his first novel, the successful SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES, with another complex story that exceeds the boundaries of the typical legal thriller. <br />Mike Daley, the ex-priest turned defense attorney who represented a friend accused of a double murder in SPECIAL CIRCUMSTANCES, finds himself defending the arrogant and politically ambitious District Attorney, Prentice &quot;Skipper&quot; Gates who has been charged with murder in INCRIMINATING EVIDENCE. Gates, who is running for California Attorney General, denies the charge of murder but cannot explain why he awoke in his own hotel room with the dead body of a male prostitute in his bed. It is left to Daley to overcome his dislike for &quot;Skipper&quot; and construct an effective defense which will save him from the death penalty.<br />The gifted Siegel lays the groundwork in the story similar to the way a talented attorney prepares a case for trial. The first part of the book introduces the many characters and their relationships to the accused and to each other. Once the trial begins, the pace of the novel accelerates until the jury announces it has reached a verdict. As the reader waits for the verdict along with the attorneys and the rest of the court, it is like the calm before the storm. What comes next is what makes Sheldon Siegel a fast-rising star and an author who should be on the &quot;must read&quot; lists of anyone interested in legal suspense. INCRIMINATING EVIDENCE is highly recommended	2001-11-20
US	49620110	R1M3Y10T16AQMG	0525946187	503612186	Billy Strobe: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Story Of Harsh Reality And Personal Growth	In this dramatic, deeply layered legal thriller, John Martel uses an absorbing, complex plot with realistic dialogue and characterization to tell a story about harsh reality and personal growth.<br />Billy Strobe is a young, idealistic man who earns his law degree while serving time in prison for a white collar crime. His primary motivation to learn the law initially is to clear his father's name. However, circumstances occur and Billy befriends inmate Darryl Orton, who teaches Billy prison survival skills. As Billy becomes more familiar with Darryl and his story, he becomes convinced of Darryl's innocence. He vows to work for his freedom despite Darryl's distaste and distrust of lawyers.<br />By writing the novel in the first person, Martel puts the reader inside Billy's head throughout his transformation from idealistic but fearful dreamer to battle-tested attorney. Initially, Billy did not believe his father could commit suicide following the crimes for which he was accused. As Billy learns what really happened we are there to witness how he resolves the personal conflict the truth creates within him. He applies that experience to his personal pledge to Darryl, creating a very suspenseful challenge.<br />This story is more than the typical legal thriller. It contains characters who have depth of personality and traits the reader can readily recognize. I loved this story for its obvious legal expertise and its ability to describe an unrelenting pursuit of justice for those who abuse the law. It is recommended for its ability to portray the growth of friendship and the transformation of a mournful, embittered son into a battle-scarred, courageous adult. If you are attracted to legal fiction, you'll be pleased with Billy Strobe.	2001-11-18
US	49620110	R1LKZY81WY5RUR	0316695262	851439685	Right As Rain: A Novel	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Gritty Realism Addresses Important Themes	This is the first story I've read by the highly regarded George Pelecanos. It is found in an &quot;Advanced Reading Copy&quot; that also contains &quot;Hell To Pay&quot;, his next book, which is scheduled for publication in February, 2002. <BR> <BR>&quot;Right As Rain&quot; is gritty, often humorous in a perverse sort of way, but still able to seriously address the issue of racism. Set in the mean streets of Washington D.C., Derek Strange is hired to find the daughter of a Black cop who, while off duty was killed by White policeman, Terry Quinn. Derek meets Quinn and wonders if he is racist or if he is being judged unfairly. Quinn and Strange begin to work together and uncover a father son duo that brings out the best of Pelicanos' descriptive writing skill. They are Earl and Ray Boone and are working for Colombian drug suppliers by delivering product to Afro American dealers. The Boones are portrayed to a T in appearance and dialogue as poor white trash; anti-social personalities who aren't too bright and let their basic human drives govern their crass behavior. Without spoiling the story, I'll just say that all the pieces, including themes of trust, friendship, and justice are expertly brought together in the book's climax and the stage appears set for future Strange-Quinn interactions.	2001-11-18
US	49620110	R3F9IGR3AY9WUS	031226979X	386268764	Hunting Season	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Remember It is Fiction	When I first saw this book I thought it looked like a typical &quot;rogue agent vs. Washington establishment&quot; suspense thriller, so I took a pass. However, after looking it up at Amazon.com and reading all the five-star reviews, I decided to take a chance. I knew I had made the correct decision while reading the first page! This is an absorbing novel with intriguing, well-developed characters, especially the female sweeper, Daniella Morganavicz, ex- FBI agent Edwin Kreiss, and disillusioned agent Janet Carter. The plot is believable and is written as if it really happenned. The secret deals, inter-agency competition, and dislike and mistrust each of the characters have for each other are themes interwoven throughout the story. The author takes the reader behind the headlines and takes full advantage of the public's naivete and ignorance about what actually takes place at the higher levels of the CIA, FBI, and BATF. He has created characters with the traits the public suspects and fears most. The positions of power are held by people who are power-hungry, immoral and self-serving and guided by the belief that the end always justifies the means. One of the advantages of fiction though, is the author can get the results he wants and in this case the conclusion is very satisfying. <br />This book is highly recommended with one caveat: you must remind yourself it is a work of fiction.	2001-10-23
US	49620110	R2OI9J3NP2VXH	0446528234	901478720	Bird's-Eye View	Books	4	4	5	N	N	As Free As Ollie	Over-indulgent Fritz Tullis, a boozing womanizer who has been fired from his professorship at the University of Texas, finds himself in the middle of a murder mystery involving an Assistant Secretary of State and a wayward whooping crane named Ollie. Fritz has escaped to his family's plush retreat in Maryland where he plans to mend his bruised ego by drinking and taking pictures of Ollie. Instead, he accidently photographs a murder and his R and R is suddenly ground to a halt. While he attempts to keep his life simple, the people and circumstances that surround him challenge his sense of integrity and valor.<BR>The story is well-written with enough suspense to keep it interesting. The personal growth of Fritz Tullis is what I most liked and will remember. When faced with the challenge of his life, he grew from a sniveling,selfish man trapped in his one-tracked mind to an honest empathic adult with the freedom to make healthy decisions.	2001-10-02
US	49620110	RDOVBDMETLG0C	0761519688	405735166	bin Laden : The Man Who Declared War on America	Books	5	40	44	N	N	Hindsight is 20/20	This is one of the books that has sat on my &quot;going to read&quot; bookshelf until the tragic events of 9/11/01. Now that I have read it I am experiencing a wide array of emotions, not the least of which are anger and dismay. Not that my reading it before would have done anything but it would have at least lessened the shock and surprise at &quot;who could do such a thing&quot; and &quot;how could something like this have happenned?&quot;. This book answers those questions. It is for readers who believe in the maxim &quot;Know thy Enemy&quot; for the author does a magnificent job of describing bin Laden and how he developed into the extremist terrorist who threatens the free world's way of life; how he developed his resources, and the complex network of followers who are willing to die for their beliefs. It's almost as interesting to read some of the reviews of this book written prior to the recent acts of terror. Those reviews discount bin Laden and the assertions Bodansky makes about him, claiming the author is trying to make money by sensationalizing the Islamist leader, his resources and his blueprint for destruction. Don't believe them. Yossef Bodansky has impeccable research to back up his statements and the indescribable horror of this last week solidifies his credibility.	2001-09-14
US	49620110	R3IRHF4QG588UU	1555534074	76262389	The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden, and the Future of Terrorism (Vol 1)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Haunting and Eerie	This book is highly recommended especially given the events of Tuesday, September 11,2001. I have read this book before but the second reading is far more meaningful,educational, and insightful. It helps to explain the mentality of the &quot;New Jackals, poisoned by political hatred and religious fervor... who have no qualms about mass killing.&quot; It clearly describes the initial bombing of the World Trade Center and the disappointment of Ramzi Yousef, Osami bin Laden's first soldier, who had originally expected at least one of the towers to fall into the other and kill 250,000 people. After describing the investigation and manhunt to capture Yousef, author Simon Reeve traces the origins of this extreme and very real terrorism. He gives an enlightening background study of bin Laden that helps the reader understand the intelligence, resources, and deadly intent of this Afghan Arab who has been responsible for the terrorist war against the West that has now reached massive proportions. If it doesn't do anything else, this haunting and eerie warning should drive home to all who read it the serious reality that lies before us. It should certainly strenghthen our resolve to stand together and fight for the freedom we often take for granted.	2001-09-12
US	49620110	R2TJ4F4LW6M5IK	1555534074	76262389	The New Jackals: Ramzi Yousef, Osama bin Laden, and the Future of Terrorism (Vol 1)	Books	5	32	35	N	N	Haunting and Eerie	...I have read this book before but the second reading is far more meaningful,educational, and insightful. It helps to explain the mentality of the &quot;New Jackals, poisoned by political hatred and religious fervor... who have no qualms about mass killing.&quot; It clearly describes the initial bombing of the World Trade Center and the disappointment of Ramzi Yousef, the mastermind and predecessor to Osami bin Laden, who had originally expected at least one of the towers to fall into the other and kill 250,000 people. After describing the investigation and manhunt to capture Yousef, author Simon Reeve traces the origins of this extreme and very real terrorism. He gives an enlightening background study of bin Laden that helps the reader understand the intelligence, resources, and deadly intent of this Afghan Arab who has been responsible for the terrorist war against the West that has now reached massive proportions. If it doesn't do anything else, this haunting and eerie warning should drive home to all who read it the serious reality that lies before us. It should certainly strenghthen our resolve to stand together and fight for the freedom we often take for granted.	2001-09-12
US	49620110	R33EQ6BEQS18A	0618025200	63314428	Columbus Slaughters Braves	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Valuable and Lasting Contribution	Taken out of life's pages, the realism of sibling jealousy and regret is artistically portrayed in this thought-provoking first novel. I started to read this book with limited knowledge about the storyline or characters. At first I thought older brother Joe would teach younger brother CJ, a baseball prodigy, life's lessons, especially that stardom has no guarantees but anyone can achieve happiness if they work to fulfill their potential. Instead, Joe was too bound up in his own insecurities and jealousy and he missed out from enjoying his brother's success and maximizing his own talents and interests. How he attempts to recover what he has lost pulls the reader into his emotional life and doesn't let go easily.<BR>This novel does what all good literature does: it mirrors life, teaches lessons and causes the reader to compare the emotions, insights and conflict resolution in the story to the reader's own life experiences. If Mark Friedman never writes another word he will still have made a valuable and lasting contribution to American fiction.	2001-09-06
US	49620110	R2NCSUBOLAST7S	0878576541	374486799	How to Boost Your Brainpower: Achieving Peak Intelligence, Memory, and Creativity	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Use It Or Lose It	The central theme of this out-of-print &quot;How to...&quot; book is: &quot;Use it or lose it&quot;. Usually attributed to muscle power and physical fitness, the above axiom applies to the use of our brain. The book advocates for a high level of both physical and mental activity. In fact, as we grow older it is imperative that a physical exercise program be incorporated into our daily lives to reverse the mental decline of normal aging. The book explains in simple terms the brain and how it works, the nutrients required to keep it healthy and the behaviors to avoid in order to maintain peak performance. Absentmindedness, memory impairment, concentration, stress and creativity are just some of the issues the author addresses. While not an in-depth presentation of brain function, this book is written well enough to encourage and motivate readers in this era of Alzheimers awareness to become vigilant caretakers of the most important body part,the brain.	2001-08-23
US	49620110	R135H8AAV1N2CL	0399147357	486821945	Dead Sleep	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Iles Is Alive And Well	Photojournalist Jordan Glass views a stunning painting of a woman in silent repose and is shocked to discover that the woman is her twin sister. What is more troubling is the art interpretation that her sister is painted in the serenity of death. Jordan learns there are several of these paintings and the women in the portraits coincide with disappearances of women dating back several years. Thus begins the relentless search for the artist.<br />Characterization is a strong point of the novel, as Jordan becomes intimately involved with an FBI investigator and the investigation itself. The novel is written in the first person, present tense, similar to Steve Martini's novels depictig Paul Madriani's legal exploits. Iles does a credible job considering the main character is a woman who shares many insights from the female perspective. However, the feelings of loss and guilt are universal. It seems the theme running throughout the novel is Jordan's struggle to redeem herself and atone for shameful behaviors in her youth by finding the artist and killer of her sister and the other women. <br />Iles again does a great job of creating a unique plot, holding the readers' interest with captivating situations and dialogue, and surprising the reader at the end with an unexpected but reasonable outcome. This was a very satisfying and entertaining reading experience and time well spent. I recommend it !	2001-08-22
US	49620110	R30O5LVXF1OSXX	0385495641	161920063	Ghost Soldiers: The Forgotten Epic Story of World War II's Most Dramatic Mission	Books	5	0	0	N	N	An Opportunity To Reflect	I've never read a book that elicited so many feelings. From the outrage and disgust while reading how human life was so ruthlessly disregarded, tortured, and cast aside, to the joy and pride as I read through moist eyes as the rescued sailed beneath the Golden Gate. The heroes are many and their story reads like an action/adventure novel. The pacing is perfect, bringing the reader along to the successful conclusion while educating, enlightening and invoking a sense of pride and patriotism.  This book is highly recommended, not only for the richness of the story but for the opportunity to reflect upon the courage, tenacity and sacrifices made so we can enjoy the freedom we have.	2001-08-16
US	49620110	R2IBR8P72KS1V5	0446527912	665759078	Animosity	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Hell Hath No Fury.....	This is a very different suspense novel with a particularly unusual character and relationships based upon scorn, selfishness and lust. Sculptor Ross Marteau meets Celeste,a beautiful woman who hires him to sculpt her sister Leda, in what turns out to be one of his greatest challenges. Leda's body overwhelms him with curiosity and fascination while at the same time feeling aversion and disgust. Once he agrees to work with Leda, the entanglement of the relationships between the characters becomes the heart of the story. In fact, I think the age-old saying, &quot;Hell hath no fury like a woman scorned&quot; becomes the underlying plotline that drives the story to a very satisfying conclusion.<br />Although this is not one of Lindsey's best, it still satisfied my requirements for it to be recommended: unique characters, realistic dialogue, and a plot that holds interest, has surprises, and makes me think after I close the book for the last time.	2001-08-15
US	49620110	R1B5E1L57ZD16T	0399147284	853678814	Chosen Prey	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Consistently Good	This is another successful thriller from the mind and pen of one of the most consistently good writers currently plying his craft.<br />We, the readers, are introduced to the killer in the first chapter and are able to follow along as he meets his match with a potential victim who piques his curiosity and challenges his resolve to murder. The reader also is able to see how Lucas Davenport solves a case and interacts with law enforcement, family and friends in the midst of a chaotic personal life.<br />As a graveyard of possible victims is uncovered, the tension and pressure to find the perp mounts and Lucas does what he does best, uncovers clues and interprets evidence to lead him to the inevitable confrontation. However, as usual Sandford is able to add the ingredients of human complexity and fraility to the climax which makes his novels stand above the rest and sends the reader to bed satisfied.<br />Highly Recommended!	2001-08-01
US	49620110	R26R6XTCPZAJZE	1566491096	148468168	Death from the Woods	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Good? Raise An Index Finger	The talented Brigitte Aubert has written this thriller in a style that immerses the reader into the body and mind of Elise, a mute and blind quadriplegic woman who has been told shocking and secret information about recent murders and disappearances of several young boys. The reader struggles to solve the murders with the same limitations Elise has, especially being mute and blind. The only descriptions of scene and characters from Elise's point of view are through the senses of touch and hearing.<br />Aubert has created a psychologically strong Elise who has a quick wit, keen mind, and clever sense of humor which help her overcome physical impairment so severe she is limited to raising her index finger as her only way of answering questions in the affirmative. Her strong mind helps her survive situations that would methodically drive a weaker person into incapacitating despair. <br />For a first rate mystery from a truly unique perspective portraying the resiliency of the human spirit, this is a highly recommended thriller.	2001-07-24
US	49620110	RCKGK2DDKBJI0	0743204832	995472619	Bitterroot	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Reading Burke Is A Love Affair	I see no reason why James Lee Burke cannot duplicate the success he garnered when Cimarron Rose won the Edgar Award for Best Novel in 1997. In Bitterroot, Billy Bob Holland is again brought to life in this modern day Western, set in rugged Montana where Burke paints beautiful and tragic portraits of both the land and the characters. In his typical creative style, Burke sets up conflict, allowing the reader inside the heads of Billy Bob and his friend Tobin &quot;Doc&quot; Voss. There we learn about victim pain, rage and vengeance. The pain comes not only from the past but from the actions of a collection of vile villains resurrected from the annals of the Old West. We learn however, that Billy Bob has a mean streak of his own, matching anything prison parolee Wyatt Dixon or the other &quot;sawed-off little pissants&quot; can dish out.<br />In scene after scene, written in colorful, descriptive prose, Burke creates dangerous situations that make the reader want to call out in warning to the potential victim. He was even able to skillfully include his own vision of the Battle of the Little Big Horn. With the deftness of a seasoned psychoanalyst, Burke re-created the arrogance of Custer and the horror of battle and its aftermath and used them to describe the haunting memories of Sue Lynn Big Medicine, a key character in the multi-layered plot. Billy Bob has his own haunting memories brought to consciousness with his visions of L.Q. Navarro, the Texas Ranger friend he accidently shot and killed.<br />There are so many examples of James Lee Burke's literary gifts found in Bitterroot that it becomes an exercise in futility to try and describe them all. My hope is to whet the appetite of readers searching for excellence. To borrow from John Steinbeck when he described Montana as a &quot;love affair&quot;, reading James Lee Burke has become a love affair as well.	2001-07-07
US	49620110	R22F6I2WU0TQO2	0399147527	406360292	Forty Words for Sorrow	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Time Well Spent	Time is a precious commodity so there's always some degree of risk to start a novel by an author I'm unfamiliar with. In this case, the time devoted to read enough to decide if it was worth continuing was short. The story of an investigation of the murders/disappearances of three young people starts with the discovery of a body while describing the main characters in the setting of bitter cold Algonquin Bay, Canada. The cold winter weather is expertly described and matches the cold, detached feelings of the heartless killers. Once they are introduced, the pace of the story quickens. The technique of alternating between Cardinal and Delorme ( the primary investigators ) and the killers and their captive heightens the tension and accelerates the pace so by the time the storyline is clearly established, the investigation is in overdrive. The subplot allows the reader to witness the internal struggle of conscience in one of the characters and the total emptiness  and lack of conscience within the other killer. The comparison offers enough contrast to lift the story above the run of the mill thriller by offering the reader some substance and material for reflection. To put it simply, invest the time, it'll pay off.	2001-06-22
US	49620110	RW6F3XI2DVZHL	0688176933	494857165	Hell's Angel: The Life and Times of Sonny Barger and the Hell's Angels Motorcycle Club	Books	3	11	15	N	N	There Was Awe At One Time	This is the first book review I've written where I had to think twice about the repercussions of a negative review. For the most part it was interesting to trace the beginning of the most identifiable motorcycle gang and its most notorious member, Ralph Barger. Growing up in California's Central Valley, I remember the warnings from parents to stay away from Bass Lake while the Hell's Angels took over the campgrounds. Then, while attending college in the South Bay, the presence of the Hell's Angels conjured up fear at the same time as awe. They were even the subject of some lectures in a Deviant Behavior sociology class. This book does nothing to change my opinion about them although it was interesting to read how important it was to uphold the image of being cool and tough, even if it meant sleeping on the ground without a sleeping bag or almost dying rather than go to a doctor. I was mildly disappointed (but not surprised) with the ending. For some reason I thought there would be a summary of lessons learned from a &quot;bike elder&quot;, made wise through the years of violence and self-indulgence; the realization that breaking the law and doing time prevents a biker from doing what he professes to love - riding his motorcycle; or gratitude to the &quot;squares&quot;, the doctors who operated on him for 8 1/2 hours to save his life. I guess that's too much to expect from a person who sees the world as revolving around him and has only learned to take. Too bad, there was some admiration and awe... at one time.	2001-06-18
US	49620110	R36UYABI31O3KM	0684871270	971468860	The Blue Nowhere : A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	No Longer Science Fiction	Twenty years ago this book would have been classified as science fiction and out of the realm of possibility. Now, in the 21st century it is very close to reality and is certainly within the grasp of computer scientists. I was amazed as I read it. The action that occurred in the Blue Nowhere was so expertly written that it did not seem implausible even though Deaver notes that Trapdoor, the computer program that wrecked so much havoc, probably couldn't be written yet. The point is that &quot;The Blue Nowhere&quot; is believable and for me the book isn't science fiction but rather an exciting and creative thriller. There are so many plot twists that I eventually just let it take me where it wanted, rather than try to figure out who was who, especially Shawn, the mysterious partner of Phate, the main protagonist.<br />In addition to being full of action, the development of the characters, their emotional and psychological growth, and the interplay among them was realistic and added a sense of humanity to the story.<br />I loved this book and would recommend it, especially to those readers who have a curiosity about cyberspace and the dangerous capabilities that lurk there.	2001-06-17
US	49620110	R2R35F5O0I1U8P	0060192410	224669426	A King's Ransom	Books	4	0	0	N	N	More Depth Than  The Usual	This is a fast moving and suspenseful story of son Nick Rey's dogged attempt to free his fisherman father from terrorist kidnappers in Colombia. He is met with seemingly insurmountable obstacles presented by an insurance company, his law firm, the FBI and others. Grippando does a masterful job of weaving subplots together to form a thriller that will keep you guessing. There is enough character development and insightful behavioral observations that I genuinely cared what happenned to Nick and his father. There are legal maneuvers to also make this different and more in depth than the typical &quot; shoot-em-up &quot;.<br />Grippando was able to tie the loose ends together so that the story was exciting yet plausible and realistic. A fine job!!!	2001-06-15
US	49620110	R197DZU8WC72AN	0375411038	593236463	Snow Mountain Passage	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Shared Humanity	This beautifully written story describes the experiences of the Donner Party travelling west to live in California. The extreme solution for hunger that they used and for which they are primarily known is a small part of the story. Rather, the enormity of the decision to lift up roots and move family and possessions by horse and wagon into a rugged and unknown wilderness is what is so powerfully described. James D. Houston has the ability to dramatically portray many different personality types interacting with each other. He brings out the best and worst traits in his characters; traits that happen to be readily identifiable for most readers. His technique of using an 82 year old woman's recollections of when she was the 8 year old daughter of Jim Reed, one of the main characters, adds realism and pathos to an already emotional and sad story. This novel is highly recommended for those who want to reflect upon our shared humanity with the American pioneers who preceded us.	2001-05-24
US	49620110	R1MP8HB7NU6FGO	0553574469	281326221	Standoff, The	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Hogan Humanizes Armed Conflict	An absolute gem! This story of a white supremacist's confrontation with the U.S. government could be taken from the headlines but is described on several levels. Chuck Hogan, in his initial published novel, humanizes the difficult concept of armed conflict. The mesmerizing quality is found in the realism of dialogue and the differing perspectives of all the main characters representing different branches of government and law enforcement. The different points of view and agendas come into conflict with each other and are driven by their personalities, past experiences, and personal demons, especially of the chief hostage negotiator, Special Agent Banish of the FBI. He fights his own personal Hell as he attempts to secure a safe surrender while manipulating the situation so the US Marshall or Alcohol, Tobacco and Firearms will be blamed if anyone is killed or if anything goes wrong.<br />This is fast-paced, thrilling and suspenseful with enough depth and surprises that you'll think about it well after you've put it down. As added enjoyment, I suggest you also listen to the audio tape. Stacy Keach does a yeoman's job; his voice along with the accompanying music makes this a listenning experience of the first order. Both book and audio are highly recommended.	2001-05-20
US	49620110	RJ9FQMG9ISK3I	0393321290	849972913	Pumped: Straight Facts for Athletes about Drugs, Supplements, and Training	Books	4	2	2	N	N	For Health's Sake	This is a useful, readable description and summary of drug and supplement use and the body's functioning especially written for athletes and those interested in physical fitness. It seems to make an honest effort to give the facts about drug and supplement use and sort out the truth from all the training ads that bombard anyone who uses fitness media. The problem is what most everyone suspects- there are no shortcuts and anything that does effect the body's functioning is a potential health risk. However, those who want all the drugs and supplements to work will be critical of this book because it doesn't tell them what they want to hear and unfortunately will probably continue to use what they want. The authors did a good job of describing the efficiency of the human body. It is such a remarkable machine that it adjusts to any &quot;shortcut&quot; and the effects become counter-productive. The well-known fact that the body starts to store fat when a person diets too quickly is a good example. I know the information in this book will not be accepted by some teens and exercising adults but it is worth knowing and hopefully the recommendations will be followed for health's sake.	2001-05-18
US	49620110	R166DWXRWN8ND2	0380797399	49390421	Faded Coat of Blue (Abel Jones Mysteries)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Mixed Feelings About Our Past	I was very impressed by the content and style of this Civil War mystery that turned out to be so much more. Captain Abel Jones, the engaging hero and narrator, is hired as a secret agent to investigate the murder of a young Northern volunteer. During the process of his investigation, the reader is exposed to a diversity of characters living in Civil War America. They are faced with several social issues, especially slavery, miscegenation, and prejudice as America of the 1860's is brought to life. The story immerses the reader into a culture and society that is our heritage and I, for one, am left with mixed feelings. On one hand it's embarrassing and shameful to know that some Americans behaved the way they did; on the other hand it's reassuring and with gratitude to know we recovered as a nation and continue to work towards unity. Any writing that can stimulate reflection upon our past is worth reading.	2001-05-15
US	49620110	R1XVEFAY91B7W3	0688163165	733601761	Mystic River	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Story For Reflection	The gamble Dennis Lehane took when he wrote this novel without his successful detective pair Angela Gennaro and Patrick Kenzie has paid off. Mystic River, a crime story that covers the themes of loss, revenge and destiny tells about a young boy abducted in front of his two friends, his release four days later, and the effect on all three as they interact in an emotional, sorrowful and brutal adult world 25 years later.<br />The excellence of this story is found in the creative way Lehane interests us in all three main characters as their lives intersect. Each have qualities and flaws we've seen before, but they are put into a situation that most only have nightmares about. We are able to see how the abuse of the young stays with them into adulthood. In some instances the results of that abuse has tragic results. Lehane is a pro and holds a mirror for us to see the underbelly of human behavior. This is highly recommended for anyone looking for a crime novel with a story that causes reflection.	2001-04-20
US	49620110	R3KSL683YU9K8P	0679763309	251642252	An Unquiet Mind: A Memoir of Moods and Madness	Books	5	20	24	N	N	Moods In The Extreme	This is a much needed,insightful memoir by a woman with manic-depressive illness. It is beautifully written, perceptive and powerful in its descriptions of manic, hypo-manic and depressive states and her struggles with treatment, especially taking lithium well after her moods have been stabalized. She emphasizes the importance of staying on medication and the mental tug-of-war to stop, for the energy of mania is extremely seductive. As a clinician and therapist who often works with people with Bipolar Disorder ( a term Jamison is offended by ) I was looking for information that would help me understand and become more hopeful and thus more able to pass that hope on to the clients I see. &quot;An Unquiet Mind&quot; gave me a lot to reflect upon and incorporate into my interactions as it has increased my understanding of manic-depression and the people with the illness. However, it is not written just for therapists or just for people with manic-depression, though it is necessary and invaluable for both. It is also recommended for those who want to broaden their perceptions, deepen their insights, and increase their understanding of the effects of moods in the extreme. It also attests to the beauty and wonder of the courageous human spirit. Highly Recommended!	2001-04-03
US	49620110	R3JAVYRL5RN6NF	1570429715	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Talent Is Very Evident	The talent of Michael Connelly was apparent as I read the latest in this absorbing and entertaining Hieronymous Bosch series. The most mind boggling aspect of this novel in particular, is the clarity and creativity he used to tie in the past stories and characters so that they added to the current mystery and not detracted from it. It is as if he had a grand scheme when he started writing, planning his entire body of work as if it were one novel. He showcases his skill by reprising his past stories as elements for the current case. Terry McCaleb, retired FBI profiler introduced in Blood Work, is asked to review the murder book of an investigation headed by Jaye Winston, sheriff detective who has worked with Bosch in the past. McCaleb's conclusions intersect with a case Bosch has investigated and in which he is testifying. As usual, the reader is taken along with Bosch as he uncovers clues and ties the pieces together with the added enjoyment of recognizing past cases and characters.  If you are a regular reader of Michael Connelly or new and looking for a first class &quot;suspenser&quot; a Darkness More Than Night will not disappoint. Highly Recommended!!!	2001-04-03
US	49620110	R35VVQC77OIRI7	0060194405	14304921	In Her Defense	Books	4	1	1	N	N	The Start Of A Good Thing?	An intriguing story of Frank O'Connell who has given up a lucrative law practice with his father-in-law and has lost his wife with young son because of pride and the desire to become a self-made success in criminal law. He is hired by a famous woman who has admitted killing a man she believes caused her father to commit suicide.<br />O'Connell has a stategy to create reasonable doubt and discovers holes and inconsistencies in the prosecution's case as he investigates witnesses and runs background checks. He uncovers a sinister plot from the fifties that overshadows the crime his client is accused of committing. Interspersed with the main plot are storylines that describe the emotional pain and conflicts O'Connell finds within himself. He loves his son, is confused about his ex-wife and seems to have strong feelings toward his client.<br />Horn does a masterful job of creating a legal thriller that delves into the emotional wreckage of an attorney who tries to right himself before he sinks and loses everything. The story kept my interest as the sinister elements are slowly revealed. The story is plausible and Horn ties it neatly together at the end. It is recommended for readers who enjoy multi-layered novels about more than the law. Hopefully, this is the start of a good thing.	2001-02-28
US	49620110	R16MU76X3J34NJ	0375500901	330117464	The Kill Artist	Books	4	1	1	N	N	All Is Not As It Seems	The Kill Artist is a very good thriller with a captivating plot that effectively illustrates the deceptions necessary for both successful espionage and exciting and suspenseful spy novels. The beginning of the book lays important groundwork for the operation to come later. Gabriel Allon, an art restorer, is persuaded to find and kill Tariq, a Palestinian terrorist/assassin before he kills Yasir Arafat, a key player in the Middle East peace talks.<br />However, just as Gabriel learned a valuable lesson from restoration of a scene in a Van Dyck, the reader should also remember that what appears on the surface is quite different from &quot;what is taking place just below&quot;. Gabriel has discovered a completely finished portrait of a woman underneath Van Dyck's painting of the Assumption the Virgin Mary. Gabriel investigated and learned the story behind the portrait and that all is not what it seems.<br />Silva masterfully leads the reader through the deceptions and to the story &quot;taking place just below&quot; and it too is not all that it seems. The Kill Artist is highly recommended and proof that Silva is an author worth reading.	2001-02-16
US	49620110	R1M3V8RD0BXPCJ	0679459618	621917476	Dr. Death	Books	4	10	11	N	N	Best of Both Worlds	I really enjoyed this psychological thriller primarily because of the skill Kellerman uses to develop the plot and to describe the characters and their motivations, beliefs, behaviors... their personalities. He provides the best of both worlds. He presents a crime and works toward its solution by using Milo Sturgis and standard police techniques. He also creates characters, both victims and suspects, and allows the reader to see them through the unique psychological perspective of Alex Delaware. We are privy to Delaware's impressions about the psychological dynamics of the characters: of Dr. Eldon Mate, the man who killed dying patients and is now a murder victim; and several suspects, especially Eric and Stacy Doss, tormented children of a woman who appears to have been one of Dr. Death's victims.<br />The reader is able to sit in on psychotherapy sessions and listen to Delaware as he helps clients face their fears as he explores their pathology. We also follow him as he reviews the files of a serial killer and develops his own ideas of who killed Dr. Death and why.<br />Jonathan Kellerman expertly educates and entertains the reader in the worlds of crime and psychology. He has advanced the police procedural by adding the interesting but often misunderstood applied field of psychology,i.e. psychotherapy. Dr. Death may not be his best but it still very good and definitely worth reading.	2001-02-12
US	49620110	R1MH7EMFF75QGJ	0316693251	319187092	Roses Are Red (Alex Cross)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Counting Coup	It's obvious from reading the reviews that there are strong opinions, favorable and not, about &quot;Roses Are Red&quot;. I don't know that I can help prospective readers other than to say,&quot;the ending is everything&quot;. I must admit there were times early in the reading of this story about the Mastermind, a brilliant psychopath who baffles Alex Cross, that I wanted to shelve the book. Bank robberies and the subsequent murders of the robbers' and bank employees' families engineered by a pathological genius and written at a breakness pace managed to hold my interest long enough until my desire to find out who the Mastermind was took over.<br />Am I glad I kept reading? Just let me say, &quot;the Epilogue knocked the breath out of me!&quot;. Don't peek! (and the reviewers who gave away the ending in their reviews out to be ashamed of themselves). Just keep reading and I think you'll be as pleasantly surprised as I.	2001-02-09
US	49620110	RBFU0JQ3QX2FD	0006493580	724236458	The Mermaids Singing	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Profiling In Its Infancy	Another winner from Val McDermid! Building slowly but relentlessly, profiler Tony Hill uses psychological maxims now accepted but at the time of the story were innovative and a novelty in the forensic pursuit of a serial killer. This story is different from other serial killer novels. It traces the profiler and his own psychological problems as well as the killer and their thought processes prior to and after each murder.<br />While the police are split in their acceptance of profiling, some problems remain the same and never seem to change, especially intrusion from the media. Mistakes in the media occur and they are deadly.<br />In the final confrontation, Hill is forced to use all his training, skills and insights. He begins to realize the perp may be hunting the profiler. The way McDermid has inserted life into the usually predictable tales of death has once again made my skin crawl. Even as I write this and remember, the hair on the back of my neck stands up and I need to turn around to assure myself no one is there. Read &quot;The Mermaids Singing&quot;. You won't be disappointed.	2001-01-23
US	49620110	R2OYN2AQXVMX68	0679451145	496848842	The Island of the Colorblind	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Sense Of Wonder	Oliver Sacks is able to convey his sense of wonder about the compexities of nature in such a way as to pass that wonderment and curiosity to the reader. In &quot;Island of the Colorblind&quot; he reveals the potential strangeness and uniqueness of life on islands. He describes how islands, by their very nature, isolate life-forms which develop unique strains of animals or plants. Islands are protected from the forces occuring on large land masses and species adapt in their own way. The Pacific atoll of Pineglap, unknown to me before, is inhabited by islanders born totally colorblind. Guam is inhabited by an inordinate number of people with the neurodegenerative disease, ALS. Merely being aware of these mysteries reinforces the feeling of humility in the midst of natural forces we feel so inadequate to fully understand. If you want to be reminded of the curiosity and sense of wonder you had as a child, savor Oliver Sack's work.	2001-01-23
US	49620110	R3RDU7WOUTGKY9	0385332777	43714370	Move to Strike	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Don't Strike Out, Read It	The ending made this book a highly regarded success. Nina O'Reilly is hired by Beth, the widow of Dr. Bill Sykes, to represent 14 y.o. Nikki Zack, accused of robbing and killing Sykes with a samurai sword. A number of intriguing subplots make this more than the typical legal thriller: Nina Reilly continues her ongoing recovery from her husband's death; her fear that his murderer may return; and her ambivalent feelings toward Paul Waggonner, her private investigator, who has a tormenting secret of his own. There are several relationships and emerging motives for Dr. Syke's murder including an extramarital affair between his wife and his business partner; the land in the desert which may be more valuable than originally thought; and a possible coverup by Daria, the mother of the accused. Adding to the complexity of the case is the death of Chris, the son of the deceased in a plane crash at about the time of the murder. Nina believes the murder and the plane crash are related, but how?<br />O'Shaugnessys' abilities to tie the disparate pieces together is showcased in this highly recommended thriller. Their talents to make a complex but believable plot readable and entertaining is becoming more refined with each novel. Move To Strike is emotionally satisfying. Do yourself a favor and read it.	2001-01-21
US	49620110	R1857KUQHOGV98	0312266324	52317828	A Place of Execution	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Mystery On The Moors	Once I endured the first 50 pages and got used to the British dialogue and phraseology, I found it increasingly difficult to stop reading this superb mystery. I kept telling myself that the readers who took the time to write a review and gave Val McDermid's latest work the highest rating possible could not all be wrong.<br />Perseverance certainly paid off. The rewards of reading pay rich dividends when you find a masterful work that excels in the four essential elements of fiction. The characters who populate the novel display a broad range of personalities and through their behavior and dialogue there is a constant question of the role each character played in the disappearance of 13 y.o. Allison. The setting, an isolated manor in the moors of 1963 England, is cold and damp and serves as the ideal locale for the mystery and the moral/legal question that has plagued Deputy Inspector George, &quot;the Professor&quot;, Bennett for 35 years: &quot;Was the maximum sentence tne just sentence for a murder without the body?&quot;.<br />McDermid's style, though initially difficult to anticipate the words and figures of speech, was read with eagerness once the emotional qualities of pathos and tragedy were recognized. The story possesses aesthetic qualities and conveys the harshness of both the countryside and later the will of the families.<br />This multi-layered story is a success and is highly recommended. I am eager to add my five star vote to the others who recognize a superb mystery when they read one.	2000-12-19
US	49620110	RTZLMI5CVEC69	0446351237	626592731	Pursuit	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Oldie But Goodie	What a surprise to find that this intriguing story of an assassin and the chase to stop him has not been reviewed at Amazon. Readers are missing out on a thriller and I consider it a public service and my duty to alert anyone interested in WWll historical fiction at its best that James Thayer has written a winner.<br />Born from desperation, Hitler hatched a plot to have F.D.R. assassinated, believing that in so doing the inevitable defeat of Nazi Germany could be overturned. The story is about the assassin,an escapee from Fort Lewis POW Camp near Tacoma, Washington and the Secret Service agent assigned to capture him. There is action from the beginning when Kurt Monck escapes from the camp to the pulse-pounding finish with a wheelchair-bound F.D.R.<br />Thayer captures the climate of the United States' domestic front, the fear and concern of the people and the effects of a war economy. He describes the use of innovative investigative techniques in their infancy; the thoughts and feelings of Roosevelt and his relationship with Lucy Mercer and the pressure and anxiety felt by John Wren, the agent with the responsibility to hunt down assassin Monck before he completes his world- altering assignment.<br />This story was a pleasure to read and is highly recommended for those with a taste for adventure and patriotism.	2000-12-13
US	49620110	R3GFR2PRBY1NS0	0679454314	68855380	California Fire and Life	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Insurance Against Boredom	I was looking through my library for something to battle the &quot;blahs&quot; and found this gem. Don Winslow's book is excellent with a clever and tightly constructed plot. The story is written from the point of view of an observer who describes what the colorful and believable characters say, do and think. The realistic dialogue reveals the thought processes of the main characters in a way that cleverly allows the reader to anticipate and follow the action.<br />Jack Wade is an ex-cop, arson investigator who is employed as a claims adjuster-arson specialist for a large insurance company, California Fire and Life. He investigates a fire claim submitted by Daziatnik Valeshin,aka Nicky Vale, a Russian KGB military officer in the U.S. to investigate/infiltrate/use the Russian Mafia. He uses his connections to make money and put himself in a position of power. Jack's investigation of Vale's claim uncovers arson and murder. Jack stands up against his insurance co. which wants to pay the claim. Why? It is all inter-related, clever and very, very entertaining. It is funny, easy to relate to and would be a movie hit if done right. Highly Recommended!	2000-12-04
US	49620110	R38SLV2O3RQVR9	0425126064	355969221	Shadow Prey	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Early Prey = Good Prey	In this second &quot;Prey&quot; novel, the Crows and their son, Shadow Love, are out to settle an old score with the Director of the FBI for sins he committed years ago. Lucas Davenport, Minneapolis-St. Paul detective and new father, is assigned to work with attractive Lily Rothenberg, an NYPD detective, as they hunt a killer who uses an obsidian knife with special meaning and power to Native Americans. John Sandford creates a powerful, action-packed thriller that deftly combines the two plot lines as he continues to build the strong and complex character of Lucas Davenport in this second Prey novel and sequel to &quot;Rules Of Prey&quot;. Highly recommended (especially if you've never read any of Sandford's or John Camp's earlier work).	2000-11-10
US	49620110	RFJ27XAJI6IWS	0399146245	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	4	5	N	N	The Ending is the Only Flaw	This is a fast-paced page-turner that defines the committment family members make to each other. Will Jennings, a doctor, his wife Karen, and their daughter Abby are the victims of vengeful but brilliant psychopath John Hickey. Mr. Hickey has assembled an unlikely pair of partners to help him with his fifth kidnapping in five years, only this time there is more to motivate him than money. He blames Will for a family tragedy and wants Will to feel a similar pain from the loss of a loved one.<br />Iles develops an intricate kidnap plot and uses three different scenes as points of action, each with its own antagonist/protagonist relationship.He moves the story along from scene to scene as the intensity mounts within the 24 hours of the title. I actually considered calling in sick from work so I didn't have to tear myself away from the action.<br />24 Hours is highly recommended with the plausibility of the ending as the only complaint. However, that is minor and can even add to this thriller's energy if it is taken with a grain of salt.	2000-11-02
US	49620110	R29DDD1OVFGCP0	0060196246	648069616	Wild Justice	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Cut Above The Rest	A fast-paced, quickly read psychological thriller that kept me guessing until near the end. It's the kind of story that has a couple of obvious suspects that are naturally eliminated because most of the presented evidence points directly at them and you know (and hope) there's got to be a twist. Without spoiling this whodunit, let's say it is worth reading.<br />Amande Jaffe, daughter of Frank Jaffe, much heralded defense attorney, takes on the representation of Vincent Cardoni, brilliant surgeon and womanizer with a checkered past of violence and substance abuse. He is accused of several murders after two heads and nine bodies are found on property traced to him. Other characters filling the suspect pool include Cardoni's ex-wife, a brilliant doctor in her own right; Tony Fiori, Amanda's love interest; a vengeful detective; and a mobster and his henchman, who believe they were ripped off by Dr. Cardoni.<br />As you can see, there are enough characters to populate a plot that keeps the pages turning at a rapid clip. While this may not be the best of Margolin's work, I would still recommend this as a cut (head?)above most other books of this type.	2000-10-30
US	49620110	R27BYTCR419PS4	0060175966	418849151	The Professor and the Madman	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Stranger than Fiction	A whole new world has been openned up to me since reading &quot;The Professor and the Madman&quot;. I had never stopped to think about the amount of work and time, let alone the method and organization, that was required to publish the OED. The tediousness with which James Murray, William Minor and all the other contributors used is mind-boggling, especially when you consider it was done entirely by hand, without the benefit of computers or word processors.<br />By taking a few minutes to explore the dictionary and read the explanatory notes in front of the volume, it has not only improved my understanding of words and language but has also increased my appreciation and awe for the minds of my fellow man.<br />Winchester has provided &quot;food for thought&quot; in a variety of ways. Reflecting upon the aforementioned consruction of the 12 volume, 414,825 defined words of the OED is just as awe-inspiring as any other work of art. The existence of mental illness, most likely paranoid schizophrenia, in one of the project's major contributors is an example of the complexity of the human mind. To think a delusional mind that was haunted by thoughts that eventually led to an act of abhorrent self-mutilation could also be so focused as to provide thousands of coherant entries of the English language that millions of people speak is beyond belief. Finally, to think that a friendship could occur between Professor James Murray, the editor of the OED and William Minor, a schizophrenic murderer is the stuff of Hollywood fiction, not true-life relationships. What adds to its incredulity is to think that if Minor were to have committed the same crime today, he could possibly be on death row in one of our civilized prisons or locked away as his enormous gift for language lay dormant.<br />The Professor and the Madman is highly recommended if for no other reason than to read of a glimpse back in time when the pace was much slower and the world was much larger and the complexity ofthe human mind and spirit thrived.	2000-10-27
US	49620110	R3R7GTLY2G515D	0380817446	278558333	The Legend of Bagger Vance	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Authentic Legend	I was browsing the shelves of my local library and was surprised to see that &quot;The Legend of Bagger Vance&quot; was sitting next to &quot;Gates of Fire&quot;, both written by Steven Pressfield. Since I was thoroughly captivated by &quot;Gates...&quot; I thought I'd give &quot;...Bagger&quot; a chance. Even though I'm not an active golfer, having golfed twice, several years ago, this story is relevant to anyone who is interested in learning and remembering life's lessons.<br />Initially, I wasn't quite sure what to expect but as the characters were brought to life and the basic storyline was established, I began to realize I was reading something special. For example, Pressfield gives a great description of being in the &quot;Zone&quot;, that rare and special time when ability is maximized with fluid and natural effort resulting in optimal performance. Winning becomes a by-product; the act itself or the Authentic Swing as Bagger Vance identifies it is what's important. Life's lesson seems to be for us not to worry about the results of our behavior. Instead, each of us strives for being our Authentic Self, and the results will take care of itself. If, in our striving, we feel isolated, we also need to remember we are never alone but are accompanied by a Higher Power, however we choose to define it.<br />Obviously,&quot;The Legend of Bagger Vance&quot; has so much more to offer than can be explained in this short review. However, I'm here to tell you that by just reading it the lessons learned will take care of themselves.	2000-10-25
US	49620110	R1U22ZKP4PUUUJ	0684850397	126138205	Circle William: A Novel	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Schmidt Happens	This was a surprisingly well-plotted, fast-paced and realistic story involving terrorist threats by Moammar Gadhafi. Two brothers, Bill Schmidt, a navy commander and Jim Schmidt, a presidential press secretary, become intricately involved in uncovering and preventing a potentially tragic threat to national security. The Libyian plan to use chemical weapons is accidentally discovered while secretly monitoring phone calls. The plan cannot be revealed however, without also revealing the source and method of obtaining the information.<br />I was absorbed by the build-up to the suspenseful and fairly plausible climax. Naturally, I would hope if a real-life event were to occur the outcome wouldn't be cut so close, but it does make for intiguing reading. I will look forward to Bill Harlow's next book and hope it will be written as well as Circle William.	2000-10-23
US	49620110	R1NKSK4PI2VYW0	0425132048	380888601	Eyes of Prey	Books	5	28	30	N	N	Yes for Eyes	This is an early &quot;Prey&quot; novel when Lucas Davenport was working as a detective with the Minneapolis Police Dep't. He is troubled by a failing relationship while attempting to solve the murder of a physician's wife. He suspects the doctor is involved despite an ironclad alibi, and clues from a possible witness who may have been with the victim prior to her brutal death which included the removal of her eyes.<br />Sandford shows his ability to take the reader into the depths of madness and to surprise the reader with his deftness to tie together all the loose ends. It is such a pleasure to read a book that you are fully satisfied with and still be surprised at where the author takes you with the ending. This book is highly recommended, both for newer readers and for those who've read the earlier &quot;Prey&quot; novels years ago but may have forgotten how good they really are.	2000-10-23
US	49620110	R2OOA4MMPCK8S4	0380975815	708765675	In a Dry Season (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nothing Dry About This	This is a multi-layered suspense thriller that delves into the lives of inhabitants of Hobbs End, England during WWII and the lives of Inspector Alan Banks and those who are important to him as he investigates the murder of a young woman. Her skeleton was found when the water is drained from a reservoir that has covered the town. Robinson deftly moves back in time and describes WWII England and the struggles of the people both in their relationships to each other and to their environment. He alternates the past with the present day problems Inspector Banks confronts with his son and with his assistant, Det. Sgt. Annie Cabbot while he goes through a divorce to a woman he continues to feel confused about.Robinson is able to provide insight into human nature and educate about the war years while guiding Banks in solving a crime with intelligence and intuition.<br />Robinson's ability to move the story has encouraged me to read  more of his work. If his other books result in the same type of skillful escape &quot;A Dry Season&quot; offers, there won't be anything &quot;dry&quot; about them either.	2000-10-18
US	49620110	R7WU8RQNYLYCT	0684849550	595782502	Ellipsis: A John Marshall Tanner Novel	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Ellipsis is ...	This is the first book I've read by the highly recommended Greenleaf. Marshall Tanner, private investigator, is brash, sarcastic, quick-witted, and very human... He is hired to protect a suspense/romance writer who is then involved in a car bombing. Tanner's own personal life and the way Greenleaf ties the clues and different elements of the story together makes for entertaining reading that held my interest until the final surprise. His presentation of Tanner makes me want to go back and get to know him better. My guess is it will be just as satisfying as watching Michael Connelly's Hieronymous Bosch develop...	2000-10-17
US	49620110	R306OSMV7E0YOH	0385488440	597135386	Purple Cane Road: A Novel (Dave Robicheaux Mysteries)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Another Masterpiece	The printed page is his canvas and no one paints a better portrait of  human frailties than James Lee Burke. Purple Cane Road is another  masterpiece by this artist who stimulates all the senses with his ability  to capture the essence of the personalities who inhabit the setting he  creates. He is able to take advantage of the situations and human nature so  that it all makes so much at the end that I just smile and think to myself  &quot;this guy is a genius&quot;.<br />This book, as all the others that Burke  has written, is highly recommended.	2000-09-18
US	49620110	R19J5W1343WBR4	0898798639	358352941	You Can Write a Mystery	Books	5	62	63	N	N	You Can Write A Mystery...Review	This little gem not only gives aspiring novelists a wealth of  information but also provides book reviewers with a guide from which books can be  critiqued. I was immediately attracted to this book by the title and was  not disappointed as I scanned the contents. It explains many important  issues that must be addressed if a story is to be successful but are mostly  not considered on a conscious level by the reader. The point of view,or the  vantage point from which the reader sees the story; building the plot and  using false leads; transition and the order of scenes etc. You get the  idea. <br />Anyway, I think this book will help me when I'm reviewing a book  and will add to my enjoyment while reading. Mysteries will be read from a  broader and deeper perspective and the admiration for writers and their  skill has increased.<br />Thanks in advance for a vote if this review was  helpful.	2000-08-16
US	49620110	R3GOLPFIG9R65Q	0743204298	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	5	28	29	N	N	Easy Decision- Read It	In this, Kathy Reich's third book, Tempe Brennan, a forensic anthropologist, splits time between North Carolina and Montreal. She has been assigned as liaison to Operation Carcajou, a task force on criminal  activities of motorcycle gangs.The setting for the story occurs mainly in  the Canadian spring &quot; when the thaw offers up the dead, hidden by the  snows of a long winter&quot;. Two skeletons are found as well as the skull  and leg bones of a teen whose body had been lain to rest in North Carolina  in 1984. The mystery facing Tempe is to determine how the skull ended up in  Montreal and what is the connection to the skeletons of the two motorcycle  gang members buried with it.<br />To complicate her life and add depth to the  story, Tempe's love interest , Andrew Ryan, has been arrested for selling  drugs. Her nephew Kit, whom she treats like her own son, has come to visit  and is fascinated by Harley Davidsons. As the story progresses, she becomes  more concerned and worried as Kit becomes involved with intrusive  slime-ball reporter Lyle Crease, who also has a love for motorcycles. She  becomes afraid for Kit and feels a sense of urgency as bikers are killing  each other in a power struggle for the drug trade. The decisions faced by  these characters is the underlying theme of the story.<br />Tempe is presented  as a three- dimensional, increasingly complex and sensitive woman  expressing her beliefs, fears, attitudes, and feelings. The book is written  in the first person so we are privy to Tempe's innermost thoughts. She is a  serious and dedicated scientist but we also learn of her feelings toward  victims, perpetrators, co-workers, family, and herself. From the beginning,  she describes how she feels about children and how she respects victims of  violence. She has vowed to use her talent of interpreting evidence and  &quot;reading bones&quot; to identify and convict the perps of violent  crime especially against children.    <br />As Kathy Reich continues to write,  she creates plots and characters with depth while using creative techniques  that add to the suspense. For example, I found myself looking forward to  the end of most chapters. They usually contained a surprise or made a point  that moved the story, making it difficult to &quot;put down the book  &quot;. She ties the story together brilliantly at the conclusion while  leaving an openning and running a common thread to the next book if she  wants to use it.<br />Highly Recommended!	2000-07-24
US	49620110	R372NI7JUZ2MJO	0312253265	850288222	JonBenet : Inside the Ramsey Murder Investigation	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Bungled From The Beginning	The most a reader can expect from a non-fiction work is that the author accomplished what he set out to do. In the book by Steve Thomas, I believe his intent was to describe the herculean effort of the Boulder detectives,  including himself, in gathering, interpreting and presenting the evidence  in the murder of Jon Benet Ramsey and to show how the evidence points to  her mother, Patsy. Secondly, I believe he intended to show the public how  the Boulder District Attorneys Office, by their cowardice and inexperience,  gave preferential treatment to the detectives' prime suspects thus  eliminating the Ramseys from prosecution. In addition, the D.A. set out to  &quot;destroy&quot; anyone who opposed them. Therefore, on a personal  level, I believe Mr. Thomas sought vindication for the smear tactics used  against him which alleged among other things that he was mentally unstable  and he was providing sensitive case information to any media that wanted  it.<br />After reading about the case from Mr. Robert's perspective, I  certainly think he accomplished his goals and it certainly appears that  Patsy Ramsey killed her beautiful daughter, and John Ramsey either  knowingly or unwittingly has protected her.<br />However, as my grandpappy  used to say as we'd sit around the morning campfire cooking flapjacks for  breakfast, &quot; No matter how thin you make 'em, there's always two sides  &quot;. Unfortunately, because of the way the case has been bungled from  the beginning, a jury will never hear the other side of the story, no  matter how thin it is and Justice will not be served.	2000-07-21
US	49620110	R287QIM5Z8E9B0	0374270325	101241499	A Man in Full	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A &quot;6&quot; On A Scale Of &quot;1 thru 5&quot;	What an accomplishment! To write a story that ties together: Charles Croker, a 60 y.o. Atlanta real estate broker who is in danger of losing his billion dollar fortune; Conrad Hensley, an idealistic, laid-off follower of  the Stoic, Epicetus; Fareek Fanon, an Afro-American college football star  alleged to have raped the daughter of Iman Armholster, a leader of the  white community; and Roger Too White an Afro-American lawyer on the rise.  Throw in a variety of other uniquely described stereotypical characters and  you have the ingedients for a masterpiece. Read with enthusiasm and slow  enough to savor the descriptions of people, places, things and situations,  this book ranks right up there with the best. The teachings of Epicetus and  the feelings of Charlie, who at 60 questions the meaning of his life were  particularly relevant and powerful. I will often refer back to this story  and read a page or two just to get a chuckle and see the beauty of the  English language in the hands of a brilliant wordsmith. Postscript: If you  have the opportunity to listen to the audio tape you won't be disappointed.  Ralph Ogden Stiers does a brilliant job of capturing the essence of each  character.	2000-07-20
US	49620110	R2ECMH4KGCC33W	0679755829	7056089	Remembering Satan:  A Tragic Case of Recovered Memory	Books	5	35	38	N	N	Stranger Than Fiction	An unbelievable, tragic, &quot;stanger than fiction&quot; account of two daughters' allegations of sexual abuse by their deputy sheriff father. The subsequent interrogations, in which suggestions of satanism were made,  resulted in confessions to Satanic Ritual Abuse (SRA). In a trance, Paul  Ingram implicated fellow deputies, family members and friends who allegedly  participated in atrocious, despicable acts of murder, rape, sexual abuse  and dismemberment.<br />Evetually the charges against everyone implicated were  dropped except for Paul Ingram. Tragically, this highly suggestible man was  persuaded by apparantly honest interrogators to confess to crimes  uncorroborated by any other evidence. His guilty plea resulted in a 20 year  prison term.<br />Lawrence Wright, a journalist and recent author of his first  work of fiction, God's Favorite, presented this provocative and  controversial case in what initially read like a bad novel. However, it  became personally fascinating and educational as he introduced the  psychological concepts of repression, recovered memories, suggestibility,  hypnosis, trance and trauma. <br />This case is but one example of the False  Memory Syndrome. It by no means dismisses the existence and seriousness of  incest and sexual abuse. It does however, call for caution by well-trained  and experienced professionals in both the judicial and mental health fields  when working with repressed and recovered memories.<br />This book is an  excellent starting point for anyone intrigued by human behavior, the  complexities of the human mind and the legal/ethical repercussions  involving recovered memory phenomena.	2000-07-18
US	49620110	R3KWYDY5X54CYY	1575664909	307969142	False Witness	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Almost  A  &quot;5&quot;	This highly regarded suspense novel has been scoring a lot of &quot;5&quot;s by Amazon reviewers. I thought it was very good but not the &quot;perfect 10&quot; material that makes you take a deep, relaxing breath  when you've finished, fully satisfied as you thumb through the pages  recalling pleasant memories of your reading experience.<br />This story of  Laura Chastain, assistant D.A., starts slowly but steadily picks up speed  until the climactic ending when the false witness... sorry, you get to read  it yourself and be thrilled like the rest of us.<br />The man of the title is  Jim Stanley, the slick slimeball of the same name as the man charged with  the murder of his wife.<br />It seems that Laura, who makes reference to her  previous case, in &quot;Presumption of Guilt&quot; is struggling to recover  from the death of her mentor and settle in Atlanta. It may be worth it to  read &quot;Presumption of Guilt&quot; and to be on the lookout for future  novels by Kelly. This was fairly fast and entertaining and not too easy to  figure out who committed the crime.	2000-07-12
US	49620110	R2SKP53UMP7ZY4	044022313X	399753192	Black Light (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	5	39	41	N	N	Black Light Sheds Light On Earl Swagger	With the recent publication and release of &quot;Hot Springs&quot;, a  story about Earl Swagger in his early years of law enforcement, I thought I  would reread &quot;Black light&quot; to reacquaint myself with him in the  time leading up to his death. I'm glad I did.<br />&quot;Black Light&quot; is  the powerful, hard-hitting story of Bob Swagger's investigation into the  death of his father, Earl. As he investigates the murder of his father, Bob  becomes a target himself as he uncovers the secret past of some powerful  men.<br />As I read this book with the knowledge of the specifics of why and  how Earl was killed, I still was held in the grip of this action-packed,  cleverly written suspense novel. I continue to be impressed with the  breadth of knowledge Mr. Hunter possesses and with the writing style he  uses to convey it. Especially effective is the way Earl and Bob ask  themselves questions and the reader follows their thought processes until  they come to a solution. Hunter also has a talent for develping real-life  and believable characters that the reader develops a strong feeling for.  One character I hope will move within &quot;Hot Springs&quot; is a younger  Sam Vincent, the Polk County prosecutor who helped Bob as an absent-minded  but intelligent 80 year old.<br />I strongly endorse all of Stephen Hunter's  books. He is the best kept secret of action and suspense fiction.	2000-07-10
US	49620110	R362KUR8YIGV07	0440225701	454775948	The Street Lawyer	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Deeper Insight About The Homeless	Briefly stated, the plot involves an attorney, Michael Brock, who is held at gunpoint by De Von Hardy, a man recently evicted. The eviction also effects several other poor people who are forced to homelessness when their  building is scheduled to be razed to the ground as a future constuction  site. The story tells about the reasons behind the evictions and the effect  those reasons have on others.<br />One of the many reasons I enjoy reading a  John Grisham novel is his ability to describe social issues within the  context of an absorbing, provocative story. In &quot;The Street  Lawyer&quot;, he tackles problems of homelessness and poverty. He  challenges the reader's values. When Brock was deciding to quit his high  paying position at his reputable law firm, I was hoping he'd be persuaded  to give up the idea. When it became evident he had made the committment to  serve the less fortunate I admired him greatly and cheered for the  plaintiffs in the pending lawsuit.<br />Grisham did a credible job of bringing  attention to the problems associated with homelessness. Drug addiction,  mental illness, parenting, unemployment are conditions exacerbated by  homelessness.<br />The most important insight however, is the awareness that  with a few bad breaks homelessness can happen to most anyone. Hopefully,  this realization will have a positive effect on readers' attitudes and  behavior toward the less fortunate.	2000-07-10
US	49620110	R3LVZ4PD8C62N9	0375502548	684734174	Omerta (Godfather, Book 3)	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Maybe The Movie Will Tell The Story	I had high hopes for this, the third and final book in Mario Puzo's trilogy of the Mafia. My hopes were held aloft as the main characters were introduced, albeit in a sparse and descriptively limited style. But as I  continued it became evident that his writing had taken a sharp decline. I  began to wonder just how much was written by him and how much by his wife  after his death.<br />The plot, simply stated, is plausible with imagination.  Don Aprile is killed after he started to go straight. He leaves his nephew  Astorre,whom he has raised with his own three children, the responsibility  of managing the family's several banks, and to never sell them. Astorre  must preserve the family honor and obey the Don's orders despite pressures  from powerful factions who need the banks for their own selfish and deluded  purposes. They want to launder drug money through the banks and then use  the money to purchase, get this, a nuclear weapon.<br />Knowing Puzo's success  with converting his books to movies, there is little doubt Omerta has  enough action and surprises to be transformed onto the big screen. However,  as a book of literary achievement or even as a suspenseful thriller, it  leaves much to be desired. In fact, ironically enough, there is a short  scene in the book when Marcantonio, one of Don Aprile's sons, is meeting  with a movie producer and an agent who are trying to sell three books to  make into a movie. They are turned down because the books &quot; are too  literary. Its the language that makes them work, not incidents.&quot;. In  the case of Omerta, it has incidents, i.e. action scenes, but not the  language to paint the scenes with brilliance on the written page.<br />The  story, told from a narrator, third person point of view, is lacking in  descriptive words and is closer to a newspaper article. There are very few  frills and the characters are at times wooden and two dimensional. They  aren't developed enough so I could never really connect with any of  them.<br />There were mistakes in the use of words, e. g. referring to  descendants when it should have been ancestors.( I read the Advanced  Readers Edition and maybe that error was changed ). There was a confusing  reference to a basketball game between Temple and Villanova, two  Pennsylvania schools playing at Madison Square Garden in New York. Finally,  a reference was made to Operation Omerta by the F.B.I. director, never to  be mentioned again. These errors distracted me and the story lost  credibility. The Godfather was Puzo's greatest work and it is sad to see  how far his writing talent had fallen. I wanted for the story to be as good  as The Godfather but realistically very few books about the Mafia have even  approached it. Now Omerta can be added to the list.	2000-07-09
US	49620110	RDNAHKTEUMR2	0684855631	430524886	The Empty Chair	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Empty Chair Full Of Satisfaction	Following the development of Jeffrey Deaver's writing talent has been full of rewards for the reader. Especially rewarding is the creation of Lincoln Rhyme, a brilliant criminalist who happens to be quadriplegic. I didn't  think Deaver could do any better than &quot;The Devil's Teardrop&quot; but  this story he has created for Rhyme and Amelia Sachs is hypnotic. Like the  proverbial onion, this multi-climactic roller-coaster ride is  multi-layered, full of twists and surprises that kept me guessing and  totally immersed in the characters and the plot.<br />On a most basic level,  Rhyme goes to North Carolina for experimental surgery and while there is  asked to help find two women allegedly kidnapped by a teen who is also  accused of murdering a teenage boy. The fugitive teenager, Garrett Hanlon,  has been monickered Insect Boy because of his fascination with insects and  their unique survivalist behavior.<br />Within this framework, Deaver has  developed a story that seems to peak at least three times, including a  difference of opinion between Rhyme and Sachs that ultimately jeopardizes  Sach's freedom and reveals Rhyme's true feelings toward her.<br />The Insect  Boy is the creative core of the story. From him the reader has to determine  the level of his involvement in the murder and kidnappings and therefore  determine in how much danger Sachs finds herself. Garrett's knowledge of  insects is phenomenal and guides much of his behavior. The information  about insects adds to the interest and fascination of the book.<br />There  were points in the story where I wondered if Sachs would be able to  extricate herself from a seemingly hopeless predicament. As the end of the  book rapidly approached, I kept wondering how it was going to have a  satisfying conclusion. When it appeared Rhyme's character may be coming to  an end, I found myself begging it wouldn't be true. I don't feel  comfortable adding too much more. I know I'd be very angry if, by reading a  review,the story's secrets were hinted at or revealed. With that being  said, Deaver cleverly gave the book a title that has more than one meaning.	2000-07-04
US	49620110	R224Y4FR95FR7Q	0684871513	549184949	The Lost Explorer : Finding Mallory On Mount Everest	Books	5	35	37	N	N	Mallory's Legend Preserved	I became interested in finding out more about George Mallory after watching a television documentary describing the discovery of his body in May,1999. When I learned that one of the climbers on that expedition had  co-authored a book describing the historical find I knew I wanted to read  it.<br />By reading it, a lot can be learned about climbing, even by a  &quot;grounded&quot; reader like myself. Being a non-climber, I really  wasn't aware of the mystique and high regard in which Mallory is held  within the community of men and women who challenge themselves to the  extremes of mental, emotional and physical endurance by pitting themselves  against the unforgiving mountains &quot;because they are there&quot;.<br />The  book provides extensive insight into the psyche of Mallory and Conrad  Anker, the man who found his body. The talent to climb, the courage to  confront the ultimate challenges and the respect and awe held for the  mountains, especially Everest, seem to be shared by both.<br />In my  estimation the book accomplished what it set out to do. Most importantly,  it preserved Mallory's legend. He was treated with reverance and his feats  and accomplishments become more mind boggling when you consider the  technological limitations with which he worked.<br />It helped provide insight  into why people climb mountains. Mountaineering taps into the competitive  nature of man; Everest is seen as an opponent that needs to be conquered.  It is the proving ground that measures a person's mettle and stimulates the  instinct for self survival.<br />The book spends time desribing Andrew Irvine,  incredible in his own right, and sheds light on why he was chosen as  Mallory's partner for that fateful climb.<br />The book also addresses the  question on most readers' minds, &quot;Did Mallory summit?&quot;. Anker  followed in Mallory's footsteps and attempted to duplicate the climb. That  helped him theorize that Mallory did not make it to the top. He explains  clearlywhy he reached that conclusion and identifies several points that  justify his conclusion. He even hypothesizes how Mallory and Irvine died  and where Irvine's body might be located.<br />Finally, this illuminating book  offers several anecdotes that both entertain and educate about the most  dangerous and exhilirating sport known to man.	2000-07-03
US	49620110	R1OWYXGH4H2VOA	0688164412	282861788	The Desperate Season	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Dynamics of Mental Illness	A stellar literary achievement,  this first novel is the illumiating account of a schizo-affective young man, Maurice, who is prematurely released from the psych hospital and the events that occur as he  decompensates. The story is ingeniously told through the eyes and voices of  several characters important in Maurice's life. His mother, her best  friend, his sister, father Nathan, and Vince, an attorney who was the  boyfriend of Maurice's mother before he was born tell us about Maurice and  themselves.<br />The perspective of their memories and the events as they  unfold are startling and revealing. As events become known secrets about  family relationships are revealed and more importantly the perceptions of  reality through the minds of each character are brought to light. This  allows the reader to postulate the dynamics that created Maurice's  pathology.<br />I am going to definitely keep a lookout for Michel Blaine. He  has written a superb foundation for a solid writing career.	2000-06-30
US	49620110	R2Z0GVNNQTV4GV	0030421365	914005231	Horn of Africa: A Novel	Books	5	12	12	N	N	Blowing My Horn For Caputo	A well-written, descriptive, metaphorical voyage into the heart of darkness. Three mercaneries are hired to run guns to a guerilla group in Africa and train a rebel Moslem tribe. The three men are abandoned there to  work out their own differences and personal salvations. Civilization as we  know it did not exist, and the dark side of human nature is exposed; the  side without restraint, pity or conscience. <br />This is another stellar  piece of writing in Caputo's body of work. The Voyage and Rumor of War are  also strongly recommended.	2000-06-29
US	49620110	R14EI598QD6NCB	0873226291	866818084	YMCA Healthy Back Book	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Back Book Is A  Blessing	After immobilizing myself with a painful back strain, my doctor prescribed muscle relaxants and anti-inflamatories and I prescribed myself information. Luckily I found this comprehensive gem that has given me  long-term benefit after the medication gave me short-term relief.<br />In  understandable terms and illustrations it shows how the back works, causes  of back pain, exercises to help in prevention and recovery, and even steps  to improve and maintain overall health.<br />Finding this book is just another  example of the old maxim &quot;out of adversity good things will  happen&quot;.	2000-06-29
US	49620110	RX4A3NN0OJS5G	068480025X	999720718	Five Past Midnight	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A Five At Anytime	An excellent, thrilling and believable story set toward the end of WWII in Berlin. Commando Jack Cray is assigned by Pres. Roosevelt to bring an end to the war with Germany by assassinating Adolf Hitler. The SS and Gestapo  learn of the plot and free Otto Dietrich, an inventive police detective to  find Cray and kill him before he can complete his mission. Cray is a  likeable hero with an extremely high pain threshold. He befriends Katrina  von Tornitz, a spy working for the allies, who helps him. The dialogue  between them is realistic and entertaining.<br />This story held my interest  throughout. The realism is unforgetable, especially war-torn Berlin, the  memorable characters Cray meets, and the dogged pursuit of Dietrich, who  finds himself in a life altering position in the end.<br />This story is very  well done! The best advertisement for an author's books is the quality of  the one you've just completed. In James Thayer's case Pursuit and White  Star are on my &quot;to read&quot; list.	2000-06-29
US	49620110	RKSZ5YMMJPJ5S	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Perfect Description Of The Perfect Storm	There's something innately magnetic about the life and death struggle of humans in the extremes of Mother Nature particularly if it occurs in the open ocean. As the movie Perfect Storm approaches its openning, I decided  to re-read the book by Sebastian Junger. My purpose was two-fold: 1) to  re-familiarize myself with the heart wrenching story of the forces of  nature and the real-life characters who valiantly fought for their lives  and the loved ones left behind; and 2) to develop a foundation from which I  can judge how well the movie captures the brilliance of Junger's  speculation of what happened in that October 1991, especially around  midnight on October 28 &quot;when the storm was at its height off Sable  Island&quot;.<br />The movie will have to be a work of cinemagraphic  excellence if it is to approach how well the book described the time  leading up to the storm; the wind, waves, and effect on the boats and their  crews; and the aftermath of friends receiving the news and the lack of  closure for them and the mournful sorrow for those who've &quot;disappeared  off the face of the earth&quot;. <br />Simply put, in my humble opinion, this  book is the standard from which all similar books describing mans' struggle  with the fury unleashed by Mother Nature should be judged.	2000-06-28
US	49620110	R22KBX6L2GZP8J	0399144714	103559066	Vector	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A  Satisfying Conclusion	I admit that while reading Robin Cook's recent medical thriller, I was initially bored and only perservered because in the past I've enjoyed some of his work and I think I owe it to an author who toils at his craft to at  least finish reading his work before I pass judgement.<br />I think Cook's  purpose in writing this story, besides as a source of entertainment, is to  warn the public and government agencies at all levels that bio-terrorism is  real and the U.S. as a society needs to be prepared in case &quot;an  event&quot; occurs.<br />With that being said, as the plot took shape and I  was being taught and entertained, I realized the pages were being turned  much faster than at the beginning. Cook reveals the plot primarily through  the dialogue of the characters and we learn about their motives and  psychological development through flashbacks of important events in their  pasts.<br />Cook does not waste characters. They are all cleverly and  conveniently connected and useful in making the plot work. He also educates  the reader through conversations between characters, e.g. between doctors  and police.<br />There were some parts of the story that seemed unbelievable  at first. For example when the skinheads were diverted from stealling the  pest control truck to chase &quot;two fags-white and black&quot;. However,  the more I thought about it I realized I was making an erroneous assumption  that these 16 to 22 y.o. skinheads have more than an ounce of intelligence.  Their behavior is actually closer to reality than I originally  assumed.<br />Throughout reading the book I occasionally asked myself if it  was mistitled. Knowing that one definition of vector is &quot;the carrier  of a pathogen&quot; I couldn't quite determine the significance of the  title. As the story neared the end, it all became clear and a silent  approval crossed my lips. The story had come full circle and I was glad I'd  perservered and continued reading to the satisfying conclusion.	2000-06-27
US	49620110	R2F91IKOZCMTLB	0375702733	414359390	Reservation Road (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Cherish What You Have	Creative, insightful, literary fiction which tells the story of a hit-and-run car accident which killed Josh Learner,the 10 y.o. son of a small town college professor. The driver, a small town attorney also has a  10 y.o. son, but is divorced in part because he lost his temper one time  and while drunk, hit his wife and his son. The story is told from the  perspective of each father, the mother and the little sister of the victim.  This structural technique allows us to watch each character's developement  through their ability to deal with conflict and tragedy. Their is plenty  opportunity for empathy. I found by placing myself in the shoes of each  father, a wide range of emotions surfaced and made it very difficult to  judge anyone's behavior. The lesson for real life: cherish every moment;  you don't know when fate will intrude on what you've taken for granted.	2000-06-24
US	49620110	R1YPIUH8JOL7E1	0446603589	426701570	Absolute Power	Books	5	1	1	N	N	First Baldacci The Best	Twists and turns in this suspenseful thriller made it a joy to read. The reader wants desperately for the arrogance of the Highest Office to come tumbling down. Suffice it to say Baldacci does not disappoint in this, his  first and in my opinion, best story. Also, as usual the book far exceeds  the movie for drama, excitement and entertainment.	2000-06-23
US	49620110	R67UF45M19XHF	0446606324	566263850	The Winner	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Buy The Premise, Buy The Bit	Buy the premise, buy the bit. Moderately-paced thriller about a man of many disguises who has developed a way to rig the National Lottery. He has picked a dozen impoverished people to be winners. One of them is our  intrepid heroine who unites with another far-fetched character, an ex-FBI  agent on the witness protection program, to bring the bad guy to his  knees.<br />This is the weakest of Baldacci's four novels but adequate to  entertain although very implausible if you really stop to think about it.	2000-06-23
US	49620110	R8FXBR0T0RNMF	0446606324	566263850	The Winner	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Buy The Premise, Buy The Bit	Buy the premise, buy the bit. Moderately-paced thriller about a man of many disguises who has developed a way to rig the National Lottery. He has picked a dozen impoverished people to be winners. One of them is our  intrepid heroine who unites with another far-fetched character, an ex-FBI  agent on the witness protection program, to bring the bad guy to his  knees.<br />This is the weakest of Baldacci's four novels but adequate to  entertain although very implausible if you really stop to think about it.	2000-06-23
US	49620110	RN99T0IOQA1SD	0446607711	702857631	The Simple Truth	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Is The Truth Ever Simple	An excellent, complex, interwoven story with themes and characters causing strong emotional reactions.<br />John Fiske, an ex-cop turned defense attorney begins to investigate his younger brother Michael's murder and unravels an  injustice that occured 25 years earlier in an Army prison. Michael, a clerk  at the U.S. Supreme Court sought answers to an appeal by Rufus Harms, a  huge Afro- American soldier imprisoned for killing a 10 y.o. white girl.  Michael paid the price and John seeks the simple truth.<br />The  relationships, past and present, and the mystery of what really happened  and by whom 25 years ago keeps the pages turning. I couldn't put it down.  It had several surprises and was so tightly constructed that it kept me  thinking. I truly liked some of the characters, Josh and Rufus Harms  especially; and Judge Knight's discourse about the unfairness of the Army's  exemption from being sued by its employees was excellent. I loved this  story and highly recommend it.	2000-06-23
US	49620110	R8L24850396I	0399145842	600482946	Black Mountain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Interest To The Final Page	Having lived near the Tetons as a youngster, I was initially attracted to this book because of its setting near Jackson Hole, Wyo. I was not disappointed. The physical descriptions of the mountains, forest and rivers  were excellent. The story did not disappoint either. The plot was plausible  and the story line thrilling and moved along at a rapid pace, making it  difficult to stop reading for very long. The characters had substance and  were developed enough so I cared about what happened to them.<br />Early in  the story the bad guys were introduced. The driving force of the story  though, besides survival in the elements while being pursued by ruthless  killers, was waiting to discover the motives the bad guys had for their  behavior. It kept me interested to the final page and Mr. Standiford has  earned another fan.	2000-06-19
US	49620110	R3OO4GJGAGI05X	039914613X	323998329	Easy Prey	Books	3	11	12	N	N	What's So Easy About It?	I never thought I'd say this about a John Sandford novel but Easy Prey wasn't very easy to finish reading. At one time, I'd buy his newly published book the day it hit the stores and have it read by the next day.  Each story was thrilling and suspenseful making the turning of each page an  effortless movement. Not so with this latest story. As I was struggling to  remember all the suspects, I was asking myself if it was me and I was just  missing the suspense, perhaps hidden in a subtle clue. After perusing the  other customer reviews however, it appears that my fellow Sandford admirers  share the same sorrow, that Easy Prey just isn't very good. Besides an  overabundance of characters that required that I write a short summary of  each on a nearby notepad, the perpetrator that finally is revealed came  with little warning or foundation. <br />The killer when identified does makes  sense. However, the characters in the chapters preceding the discovery of  the killer, while interesting, do very little in the way of providing clues  for the reader. Part of the fun and entertainment found in reading a John  Sandford novel is following the mental gymnastics Lucas Davenport performs  and the interplay between Lucas and the perp. That was missing in this  novel.<br />The redeeming qualities of the novel are found in the  personalities of the characters. Sandford does a credible job of portraying  the uniqueness and human nature of the novel's residents. Following Lucas  Davenport's struggle with women at a time in his life when most persons  gain insight into what the future holds for their lives, is enlightening.  Hopefully, in the novels that follow, the reader will discover if Lucas's  goals have been achieved, his dreams fulfilled and satisfaction attained.  That's because Lucas Davenport is a person we've learned to care about.	2000-06-14
US	49620110	R2L0GP36L2FGM6	0312192339	531409019	Incident at Twenty-Mile	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Old West Revisited	Beautifully written by a wordsmith of the highest order, this dark, gritty, complex story pits youthful bravado against experienced evil in the Old West. The near-abandoned mining town of Twenty Mile Wyo. is the setting  for a confrontation between the innocent townfolk, including: three  prostitutes, a virgin, her family and Matthew Dubchuk a.k.a. the Ringo Kid  versus three escaped prisoners led by Hamilton Leider, a deranged patriot  who demands respect and controls through violence.<br />Trevanian captures the  spirit of the Old West through this basic struggle between good and evil.  The story is funny, sad and certainly thought-provoking. It is the type of  story that will be long remembered and probably re-read merely for the pure  enjoyment and pleasure of it.	2000-06-14
US	49620110	R2WJWCH89A9MSC	0679450394	194324903	The Voyage	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Voyage Of Life	This is a masterpiece, one of the best action- adventure literary works I've read; so well put together with so many lessons to be considered. Based upon a similar story told to the author, Caputo shows his immense  talent by crafting an adventure story that describes the sea and the danger  of sailing within a mystery of family relationships.<br />The majority of the  story depicts the adventures of the voyage from Maine to the Straits of  Florida. The lessons learned by the young sailors are many: involving  friendship, sacrifice, love, the adult world traits of treachery and deceit  symbolically occuring on the ever-present, ever- changing, unforgiving  sea.<br />The epilogue answers the question of why a father would send his  young sons away under such challenging and seemingly unfair circumstances.  Read this thoughtful, intelligent work. You won&quot;t be disappointed.	2000-06-13
US	49620110	R199U99D21HGDX	0679457526	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mount Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Just As Good The Second Time	I enjoyed reading this book so much when it was first published that I jumped at the chance of listenning to the audio tape. It didn't take long to again become totally awed by the experiences of the people on the  mountain that day. Having never experienced wind, snow, and temperatures  found at high altitude, it is very difficult to visualize through the  written ( and spoken ) word, what these men and women experienced. To help  me and to add to the awe and amazement I looked at the excellent National  Geographic published,  Everest: Mountain Without Mercy by Broughan Coburn  with pictures by David Breashears.There has been so much written since the  tragedy  I just hope the lessons to be learned have been and the families  of the victims have found acceptance and forgiveness.	2000-06-12
US	49620110	RNWSO4K2IEQBV	055311106X	651911036	The Tin Man	Books	1	0	2	N	N	This Tin Man's Heart Is Barely Beating	I was greatly disappointed by this cartoonish effort that would have been more appropriate on Saturday mornings viewed by youngsters as they scarf down their morning cereal. Brown attempted to combine drugs, bikers,  neo-nazis, military, high tech, and police and was never able to present a  realistic, suspenseful plot. The story crashed and burned shortly after it  began. I tried to get through it and after hours of struggle I laid it to  rest after chuckling to myself that this Tin Man should have stayed in the  Land of Oz.	2000-06-12
US	49620110	R2ONC4EY49GJX1	0385495846	437097764	Demolition Angel	Books	5	2	3	N	N	This Angel Has No Problem Standing Alone	Robert Crais has written a &quot;stand alone&quot; novel that stands above other crime fiction entries.At first I was hesitant to start reading a Crais novel that did not include Cole and Pike as the main characters. No  problem!  By the early morning hours I had told myself that I'd call in  sick for work if I had to but I couldn't break away from this tightly woven  puzzle of interlocking events with an explosive finish. This is the type of  story that required putting my hand over the unread parts of the next page  so I couldn't peek ahead at the forthcoming action and surprises. Crais  developed his characters into men and women that had realistic and  understandable behavior and feelings. The characters' interactions with  each other were believable and their dialogue and communication was  authentic and the primary vehicle that drove the story forward. I became  concerned for the mental and physical  health of Carol Starkey who used  alcohol to deal with the stresses and trauma in her life. She was close to  losing control of her judgement and behavior. I believe the ingredients are  there for a sequel. I would like to read about Starkey and the other men  and women so brilliantly introduced in this &quot;stand above&quot; novel.	2000-06-07
US	49620110	R2IDH9LAK980N1	0684855518	91466535	Bones: An Irene Kelly Mystery	Books	5	15	16	N	N	It's Good, Make No Bones About It	Irene Kelly, newspaper reporter, is invited on a search for the mountain grave of a woman killed by convicted sadist Nick Parrish. Surprising and unexpected events leads Kelly down a road of psychological torment and self  doubt. She experiences survivor guilt and other symptoms of post-traumatic  stress as she attempts to heal herself and avoid being found by Parrish and  victimized in a more brutal and tortuous way. The story actually had two  seperate climaxes both of which were realistic. There was enough  well-modulated suspense to move the story at a brisk pace. The ending was a  surprise but at the same time believable. The value of reading the book  reviews of editors and the readers' comments at the Amazon website has once  again been fruitful. Having seen titles by Jan Burke but never having read  one of her books I decided to after seeing all the 5's put up by the  readers. I can now add my 5 to the rest. In fact, this story was good  enough to pique my interest and persuades me to read another Irene Kelly  Mystery.	2000-06-01
US	49620110	R3CLAU9QYED2XE	0385494602	882687976	The Green	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Troon Makes an Eagle	This story started out with birdies, shot par and a bogie or two in the middle chapters and made an eagle at the end to save a great story. I recommended this book to golfing friends after reading the first few  chapters. It was clever and funny and once I accepted the premise, that an  honest and honorable golf hustler could be asked to play and ultimately  lead the U.S. Ryder Cup team, I thought I was reading one of the best  sports' novels ever. There seemed to be a slight letdown and the story  became a little silly once &quot;Alternate Shots&quot; and &quot;Best  Ball&quot; matches started. However, the Individual Matches and of course  the explanation for Eddie's behavior salvaged the story and caused a  pleasant feeling and smile to cross my face.This is the kind of story that  will be recalled with a chuckle and highly recommended to others.	2000-05-30
US	49620110	R2CQZO99T2EC86	0786866004	547917110	Red Light (Merci Rayborn)	Books	3	33	36	N	N	Red Light Stops the Action	I have always listed T. Jefferson Parker as one of my &quot;must read&quot; authors.This attempt at a creative police procedural set in Orange Co began with intrigue and promise.         Merci Rayborn, talented  star investigator is found trying to start a new life following the death  of her partner and love interest in The Blue Hour. She is assigned to solve  2 cases of murdered prostitutes. The more recent is the point blank  shooting of a young and beautiful call girl with all the evidence pointing  toward Merci's current boyfriend and fellow police officer. The older case  is the 35 y.o. homocide of a prostitute with known connections to the  police force when Merci's father worked there.      The emotional conflict  and doubt in which Merci finds herself has numerous plot possibilities. The  story presents a challenge to the reader to guess how the two cases are  related and how the solutions to the crimes will effect Merci and those she  cares deeply for.       However, relating the characters in each case to  each other is no simple task and I found it confusing.The story became  tedious and the slowly mounting suspense seemed to drag as the story became  more complicated. I wanted desperately for there to be a mind numbing  surprise as the story neared its conclusion but instead Red Light ground  the action to a stop.	2000-05-28
US	49620110	R1ZEC4Y5VHSC8I	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Kindle County Jurisprudence	An excellent story, written in descriptive dialogue and educative phrases from the point of view of George Mason, Robbie Feaver's attorney. Feaver was caught getting favorable judgements in personal injury cases and is  asked to &quot;wear a wire&quot; in lieu of prosecution, to catch the  corrupt judges, especially the ringleader, Brendan Tuohey. This book took a  while to read, slower than most, but the writing was so concise and full of  meaning that slower speed was required for me to savor it. Feaver was an  indeliably drawn character, complex, charming, humorous, clever and  intelligent. The F.B.I. agent assigned to him, Evon Miller, has her own  secrets and the interplay between Feaver and Miller was priceless. This was  an honest effort that really displays Turow's skill as a novelist. I now  plan on reading Laws of Our Fathers which got mixed reviews like this book.	2000-05-15
US	49620110	R3UDDLQ06ZRE3V	0553801414	138360553	Special Circumstances (Mike Daley, Book 1)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Special Circumstances Surprise and Justify	An ex-priest, ex-public defender is hired to defend his best friend in a double homocide of 2 high ranking employees of a high powered law firm on the verge of bankruptcy. That he is recently fired and the district  attorney he opposes was also a one-time employee of the firm makes them  familiar with the idiosyncratic personalities of the main characters of the  firm and provides them with a special incentive. Without giving away too  much of the story let me just say that there are surprises that cause an  &quot;Oh my God ! &quot; either aloud or to yourself. The surprises are  special circumstances that justify what happens. Confused? Intrigued?  Curious? I hope so. This story is very well done and holds interest  throughout. The trial follows a logical sequence that builds to a crescendo  in which I was actually physically and emotionally effected by the reading  of the verdict and the subsequent events and information.This book was a  pleasant surprise and a pleasure to read. I eagerly anticipate Mr. Siegel's  next novel.	2000-05-12
US	49620110	RAV452M3RD5NR	0385495838	487267340	L.A. Requiem	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Pike's Past Tells A Story	Another smashing hit in the Elvis Cole and Joe Pike series finds a revealing set of creative flashbacks about Pike and what makes him tick. He and Cole are hired to locate the missing daughter of a retired Hispanic crime boss who is currently a councilman with an abundance of clout. Pike  finds himself charged with murder and Cole works to exonerate him. The  story is cleverly tied together and reveals Cole's thoughts and feelings  toward the important women in his life. Psychological forces effecting the  main characters give them depth and substance not usually found in books of  this type. I read The Monkey's Raincoat which was Crais' initial effort and  because I was pleased with that introduction to Cole and Pike I eagerly  anticipated and thoroughly enjoyed L.A. Requiem. I can now look forward to  reading the novels in between with the added advantage of having insight  into the dynamics of Cole's and Pike's personalities.These bookend novels  are certainly &quot;Edgar&quot; worthy for this realistic and entertaining  series.	2000-05-04
US	49620110	R2EFRXLSIDYA1W	0312963815	151456505	Birds of Prey (Courtney Family Adventures)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	imagination soars with Birds of Prey	There's not another activity quite like reading a story created by a skilled author that allows you to travel to another time and witness events of high drama and intrigue while in the safety and comfort of your own  home.Wilbur Smith has created such a story. This is a fantastic historical  novel set in the 1670's depicting the English pirate raids on the Dutch  East Indies Company. Treachery on the high seas, slavery, brutal conditions  and extraordinary characters make this a story not easily forgotten. It  seems its main characters,  namely Francis and Hal Courtney may be the  ancestors of the later Courtneys found in Smith's earlier novels. It will  be a pleasure to find out.	2000-04-28
US	49620110	R24265HJ806JXF	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	5	14	14	N	N	absolutely mesmerizing	This book sat in my bookcase for months until I finally decided to read it. What an excellent decision! The story was absolutely mesmerizing with a fantastic plot and very well written. It was tightly constructed with no obvious loose ends.This first novel held my interest as the narrator Hank,  an accountant, reveals how he, his older brother Jacob and Jacob's friend  Lou accidently discover a crashed plane and over $4 million hidden within  its fuselage. From the decision to take the money, Hank reveals the  thoughts and emotions, the fear, anxiety and the development of sociopathy  with rationalization and self-preservation justifying increasingly violent  and irrational behavior.    The story has the ability of allowing the  reader to think along with Hank and his wife Sarah and compare their  decisions to what the reader may have done in similar circumstances that  makes this a great exercise in values clarification.	2000-04-27
