US	49629134	R31UT40HDIYIOW	193228771X	408579482	The Bridge Party	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A great read	Sandra Seaton has done a fantastic job of writing<BR>about a very dramatic topic, without being heavy<BR>handed with a situation that could easily have seen<BR>her done so.  This play about lynching does not<BR>necessarily center itself around the lynching in a<BR>direct manner.<br />As the title suggests, Seaton concentrates her action<BR>at the house of the Edwards family in middle<BR>Tennessee.  This is where the neighborhood women<BR>gather to play cards, and strengthen their community,<BR>often at times that the men of the families were off<BR>hunting or fishing.<br />A lynching does occur, of a young black man who had<BR>been on trial a ways up north.   Having been declared<BR>not guilty, he never made it all the way home.  Word<BR>of the event made its way to the Edwards home and<BR>Seaton allows her characters, whose personalities have<BR>all been fully developed by this time, give the<BR>varying viewpoints on how the event should be reacted<BR>to, and what effect it would have on their community.<br />Seaton does a wonderful job with her<BR>characterizations.  Each of the characters is unique,<BR>and considering the vast majority of them are of one<BR>sex, this is all the more impressive.  All three of<BR>the Edwards daughters are present and in various<BR>stages of their lives, as well as some of their<BR>friends, and friends of their mother, and the<BR>potential mother-in-law of one of the Edwards<BR>daughters.<br />The women, with Mr. Edwards out on a hunting<BR>expedition, are forced to deal with two white deputies<br />who are going through the area, attempting to<BR>confiscate all of the weapons any Black folks might<BR>have in their homes.  Their attempts to quell any<BR>possible uprising due to the lynching are met by the<BR>women with claims of no knowledge of any guns within<BR>the home.  The women take care of the situation, in<BR>the two times that the deputies come knocking, with no<BR>violence at all, just simply words.<br />Seaton is able toget within the heads of her<BR>characters.  In giving each of the women a unique<BR>style, appearance and attitude, she is able to pull<BR>back ideas from various sources in her life and throw<BR>them on the paper.  It gives the reader a well-rounded<BR>story, one that is hard to come away from thinking<BR>that the author pounded her vision of how things were<BR>and should be into your head.<br />Even the end of the play, in which one of the<BR>daughters, Marietta, gives a soliloquy that recaps<BR>some of the play, and expresses a view of the future<BR>that if not handled properly, could have had the feel<BR>that Seaton was speaking and not one of her<BR>characters.  It is handled properly though, and the<BR>reader leaves with the feeling that Marietta is<BR>speaking as herself and not Sandra Seaton.<br />Seaton gives enough stage directions so as to allow a<BR>reader to visualize the play, while not adding 20<BR>pages to do so.  Her ability to use dialogue and not a<BR>major event to propel the story forward, and in fact,<BR>cover a major event leads one to believe she will be a<BR>force in the drama field for some time to come.	2004-06-26
US	49629134	R1OYLK55DWQBDD	0738208418	414252062	Conquering Postpartum Depression: A Proven Plan For Recovery	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Necessary for all pregnant women and potential fathers	Postpartum Depression seems to wander into the nation's limelight every couple of years due to large scale tragedies - the most recent example being that of Andrea Yates and the deaths of her children at her own hand.  Based on the statistics offered by this trio of Michigan based doctors, it is surprising the topic doesn't surface with more regularity.<br />Nearly four of five women suffer from some sort of mood altering during and after pregnancy, on various levels.  For the most part, even the women who are experiencing these mood changes view them negatively.    After all, girls frequently look forward to having babies their whole lives, and why in the world would they not be excited, why would they be feeling down?  Even more often, husbands, family and friends understand even less.<br />The problem with the women having concerns over their feelings is that they often do not let anybody know they're having them.  In cases where the mood swings are slight, it leads to an unnecessary lack of pleasure with the pregnancy.  In cases where full-blown cases of postpartum depression develop, the lack of discussion can lead to disaster.<br />Dr. Ronald Rosenberg has utilized his expertise in pharmacology, along with his position as an OB/GYN, and further studies as a psychiatrist to come up with a plan for recovery for women suffering at all different levels of this depression.  His plan includes medical treatment, counseling - a field in which Dr. Greening is an expert, developing a social support system, and parent training skills, where Dr. Windell's skills come to the forefront.  As the title states, this is a proven plan for recovery - with numerous examples of situations different women were in and how the plan affected their lives.  <br />The book is written with a clean, concise style.  Each chapter begins with \\"Points to Ponder in this Chapter,\\" a listing of anywhere from three to ten issues that the chapter highlights.  The chapters are also included in a verystraightforward manner, beginning with an explanation of what postpartum depression is, moving towards how to determine if you, or a loved one, are affected, and up through the various stages of the plan to recovery.<br />This book thoroughly explains all aspects of postpartum depression in a manner that should make it easier for expecting mothers, and their families, to understand and accept what is happening.  It is a book that all OB/GYN's should be forced to read (too many of them still don't understand postpartum depression well enough to help their own patients), and should be given to every pregnant woman, and read by her and the father of her expected child.	2003-07-10
US	49629134	R22UWX0L9ZFGCQ	088748378X	189182144	Wrestling with Gabriel	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Great twist in style - pick this one up!!	David Lynn, editor of the Kenyon Review, has followed up his previous publications, a short story collection and a book of literary criticism, with a stunning novel.  He employs a slight trick and does so masterfully to force his readers to think about how they view the world in terms of racism, class and morality, while enjoying a page turner of a novel.<br />The story is told from the point of view of Baltimore reporter, Jason Currant. He is a Viet Nam veteran who is recently divorced.  His ex-brother in law has been accused of rape in a small Iowa town and he is asked by his ex-in laws to look into it.<br />Gabriel Salter, the ex-brother in law is an idealist and a working member of the International Socialist Alliance.  He has worked in some of the worst conditions imaginable in order to get the word out that the common worker and illegal immigrant is getting screwed on a regular basis.  He has been accused of raping the daughter of a Black, truck owner/driver who doesn't have the greatest reputation in town.<br />The two sides have completely irreconcilable stories in regards to the events of the evening.  The police have Salter as a low level drug dealer in the neighborhood to collect on a debt.  The ISA has Gabriel set up because of his rabble rousing ways, including a recent protest over the raid and arresting of many illegal immigrants working at the meat packing company he works at.  They claim a woman accosted him and told him her boyfriend was dangerous and asking if he would take her home?  Upon arriving, she disappeared into the home, and as she wandered through the home, the police appeared behind Gabriel and pulled his pants down and arrested him.<br />The slight trick that Lynn uses is offering two different prologues, one for each of the two sides.  Throughout the remaining reading of the book, the reader will choose one of those two views as the one to believe as Lynn has set them so far apart that finding a middle ground is not possible.  He setthe prosecution view up first and then offers a second prologue titled, \\"Another Story,\\" giving the ISA view.<br />Throughout my reading, as Currant investigates, talks to people, and builds up both sides of the case at the same time, I had to constantly question myself - did I think what I did because of Lynn's ordering of the prologues?  Because of the race of the participants in the events?  Because of the politics of those involved?<br />Currant is not only investigating the story of Gabriel Salter, but wrestling with himself as well.  He is trying to piece together a history of his family and that of the Salters, coming to conclusions that would be shocking, and not just surprising, if Lynn didn't do such a good job of foreshadowing them.  Lynn reminds us just how simple it is to hide from one's view what is going on around us when we don't want to know - Currant is a reporter, trained to observe and investigate yet he is the one most surprised by the revelations he discovers about his youth, and his family.<br />As the mystery of the rape is the one that is being written about front and center, with Lynn's format, it is not the one that is going to be most easily solved.  That lifts this book above the level of a standard mystery and puts it in a special class.  Lynn has delivered a page turner that is as thought provoking as any book I've read this year - I believe I have learned as much about myself through my reading of \\"Wrestling with Gabriel,\\" as I did of the characters.	2002-12-08
US	49629134	R2T5KEJ9YJUG3B	0151008647	934426937	That's True of Everybody	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Very enjoyable collection!	Mark Winegardner has followed his epic novel CROOKED RIVER BURNING with a fine collection of eleven stories that capture that that is essentially American.  Going back to he Midwest of his youth, Winegardner, while seemingly straying from the mainstream with slightly out of normal characters, really does nail down things that are 'true of everybody.'<br />Winegardner's stories are well-paced, quickly developing his characters in a manner that makes them both reliable as narrators and recognizable in some way.  The language flows smoothly with an excellent and varied vocabulary.  Though Winegardner is the Director of the Creative Writing Department at Florida State University, nobody would lump any of these stories into the 'cookie-cutter MFA' variety.<br />Instead, his stories can be lumped together as efforts that burn with an energy, leading the reader to the conclusion, whether it be thrilling or not, at a rapid pace.  While at times, it does not seem like an incredible amount is happening, the writing and tone keep the reader involved.  That and a pretty sharp sense of humor, a fair amount of which could be considered black.<br />The collection opens with \\"Thirty Year Old Women Do Not Always Come Home.\\"  The story revolves around Harry, the proprietor of a bowling alley in the Cleveland area of Ohio, his two daughters, and a lane girl who ends up going AWOL the day she is to receive her first check.  <br />Harry goes to visit his eldest daughter Debra for the opening of her new painting exhibit.  Over dinner, Debra and her husband, whom Harry is not a fan of, explain that Harry might not be ready for her new muse;  she paints nothing but phalluses.  Harry ends up buying one of the paintings and having it shipped home in order to support his daughter.  When he arrives home, Jane is out very late, and he has to come to the conclusion that the story title poses.<br />What he has a difficult time doing however, in an apparent way of dealing with his daughters no longer needing him, is letting go of the fact that his lane girl just quit.  He goes to the extreme of driving out to the address she listed on her application, and calling the phone number of her former residence in Nevada numerous times trying to verify she was okay.  Throughout all of this, Harry is also going on dates via the personal ad section of local papers in an attempt to find somebody for himself.<br />The story wraps up nicely with Debra having a baby and Harry realizing what a good father his son-in-law is, Jane moving in with the bartender at the bowling alley, the discover of a dead young woman turning out to not be the former lane girl, and Harry deciding that 'Someday, someone would hear what it was Harry Kreevich was really trying to say.'<br />The middle of the collection contain a trio of stories:  The Visiting Poet, The Untenured Lecturer, and Keegan's Load, under the heading Tales of Academic Lunacy: 1991 - 2001.  These cover, in great detail and insight, topics that very easily could have gone under easy stereotypes.  The Visiting Poet goes after the professor bedding students issue; the Untenured Lecturer takes on the one-hit wonder professor; and Keegan's Load very adeptly handles the aging department head not being understood by a younger generation of professor's.  Readers with friends who have received MFA's or are professors have undoubtedly heard comparable tales, but Winegardner makes each of the three stories seem like totally new concepts.  He avoids the stereotypes and creates three dimensional characters and issues. <br />The final story in the collection, \\"Halftime,\\" allows Winegardner to experiment a little.  His main character, taking prescriptive medication seems to be falling apart right in front of the reader.  Trying to determine if the events being written are truly occurring or just going on in the protagonist's mind creates an added sense of interest for the reader.<br />In each of the stories, Winegardner allows a bit of separation from his characters.  While he develops them quickly, he never really pulls the reader inside their minds.  It is this separation that allows the reader to believe that the actions they are reading could be true of everybody.  What Winegardner does so well, is have his characters, no matter what is going on in their lives, positive or negative, keep hope.  Here's hoping that he continues to write fiction in its shorter form in the future.	2002-08-15
US	49629134	R1GIAOMP9DVWN6	0609608185	422139917	Elvis and Nixon	Books	3	4	4	N	N	The secrets behind the meeting revealed	As if enough wasn't being written in the non-fiction department about Richard Milhous Nixon and Elvis Aron Presley, Jonathan Lowy has taken the time to write a fictionalized account of the bizarre meeting between the twosome.  Fortunately, Lowy has infused his tale with enough interesting characters, both real and fictional, as well as enough meandering plot lines, and psychedelic writing to keep the reader's interest level from beginning to end.  <br />The odd pairing of Elvis and Nixon occurred when Presley went to Washington D.C. in search of a Federal Narcotics at large Agent badge to help control and bring back the counter culture of hippies, yippies, panthers, and other anti-establishment organizations.  The novel's main task is to fictionalize the settings and situations that brought forth such an unlikely meeting in the first place.  However, much like the play &quot;Nixon's Nixon&quot; by Russell Lees, this work uses this instant of Nixon's life to bring forth his views on other issues.  Good versus evil is shown quite clearly.  Though misguided in many of his efforts, and often in his methods, Elvis and his brood are typically shown to be good hearted in nature.  Nixon and his henchmen however are drawn through Lowy's obvious distaste.  Pat Buchanan in particular could not appear more satanic.  The Mai Lai massacre is also drawn into the fray.  <br />The two main figures are virtually caricatures in real life but Lowy pushes the envelope with his fictional versions.  With Elvis, he takes real life stories of Presley sermonizing to his bodyguards, popping pills, large and unique appetite, and supposed obsession with the Beatles and crams them all into a few day period with zeal.  With Nixon, he doesn't push nearly as far, seemingly because just exploring the Tricky Dick side of Nixon gets exactly what Lowy wants the reader to see.  <br />The fictional extras are exposed to the reader throughout the novel, in many of the short, fast-paced chapters.  There are no wasted characters in Lowy's writing.  Ben Rollins, a Viet Nam veteran with only one arm refuses to accept an award in the Rose Garden; his sister fell under the spell of drugs while he was in Nam and has become a hooker;  she helps Colonel Sitorski, who is being framed as the White House leaker of pertinent Mai Lai information to the press;  his son Junior was at Mai Lai, and so on in a plot that stretches credulity at times.  <br />The pace of the novel keeps things rolling along; the short chapters enticing you to go forward and not put the book down.  The plot lines and their interweaving, while again occasionally drawing attention to themselves, are very entertaining.  The writing itself is clear, and Lowy even inserts an authorial decision statement into the work with a quick flourish of metafiction.  Even without high interest levels in Nixon, Elvis or even to a small degree the early seventies, this one will make a good weekend or summer read.	2001-03-06
US	49629134	RWVQ5B0S5FVR9	0811810275	760571333	Tenorman	Books	5	3	4	N	N	An incredible writer	Chronicle Books actually had the gall to publish a hardcover novella and charge just under $13 for this one, single story. Completing a novella has to leave a writer feeling both the satisfaction of completion along with the disappointment towards the potential audience size.  If you write novellas in volume, perhaps you can bundle three at a time for publishing purposes, a la Jim Harrison.  Or perhaps you can also write some short stories about a similar topic or individual and package them as a collection (as Huddle did recently this year with the incredible &quot;Not; a Trio&quot;).  Otherwise, typically you have to hope a literary journal will take a chance on this &quot;long story.&quot;<br />&quot;Ternorman,&quot; the novella, is typical Huddle in that it is written with skill, subtlety, and passion.  The topics are familiar, self-introspection, love, relationships, and purpose in the world.  Huddle has a skill level and sureness to his writing that allows him to put things in print that other writers wouldn't try.<br />&quot;Tenorman&quot; is the story of Eddie Carnes, tenor saxophone player, and the Government program that has taken over direction of his life.  Eddie, at age 59 is brought back from Sweden to Maryland by the Carnes Project.  The NEA has funded this project, which will clean Eddie up from his drinking, and put him up in a comfortable living arrangement, recording and videotaping his every move and sound.  He signs his rights away with both a shaky hand, and a great flourish.<br />Once clean, Eddie is set up in a studio, half of which is a full scale apartment.   The project buys him the saxophone he wants, one played by Stan Getz a few times and owned by a collector in Sweden.  He has played this sax two times earlier in his life and knew it was the one for his future.<br />The novella mixes his fictional life with some other fictional musicians, as well as some modern jazz greats.  He produces more great music, and is wise well beyond his 8thgrade dropout educational level.  The relationships include those between Carnes and his standard musicians; between Carnes and Project Director Henry McKernan; between Henry and his wife Marianne; and that of Eddie Carnes and Thelma Watkins, the school teaching cousin of one of his musicians.<br />It is during the telling of two stories between Eddie and Thelma at a dinner that the intertwining of the lives of all involved occurs.  This conversation is taped by the project.  Henry and Marianne listen to the tapes together and come to realizations about their marriage and lives.  The conversation is a fascinating one and where I believe Huddle leaves other writers behind.  Eddie's story goes back to the sixth grade and a period of time of sexual enlightenment.  It involved boys and girls rolling down a hill together and the excitement and need to continue.  He had never been able to find a relationship to compete with that short-lived one.  Thelma also went back to childhood and the possibility of her mother cheating on her father.  She had never been able to fully trust love and relationships.<br />The story of Eddie prior to this conversation is very well done and the writing of music, a difficult task, is done with apparent ease by Huddle.  The conversation, how the two react and continue their evening, and how it affects the McKernans is incredibly well done.<br />Chronicle Books actually had the gall to publish a hardcover novella and charge just under $13 for this one, single story.  With the talent level of the writing, and the story being told, Huddle didn't leave them much choice.<br />5 stars.	2001-02-20
US	49629134	R3BTMT4BVMVWRP	0312263953	177340027	Slightly Chipped: Footnotes in Booklore	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Not up to the original's standards	This is the sequel to the Goldstone's first effort on book collecting, Used and Rare.  The book goes back and forth between fascinating and boring as they veer away from their intended topic at times.<br />The opening chapter entails the Goldstone's first visit to Boston after the publication of Used and Rare.  Besides going to the Spring Antiquarian Book Fair that they were there for, and some of their usual used book haunts, they also went to many new book stores in attempts to see how they were selling.  As the book was being reviewed nicely, they hoped to even find some copies on display.  To their dismay, the only store they found a copy at, had the book in the Literary Criticism section, what the clerk referred to as the garbage collection of the book store, where they put the books they didn't know how else to classify.<br />At the Fair itself, the couple meets a couple of Book Dealers from their area and make a decent sized purchase of UK First Edition Moderns (both Mrs. Bridge and Anatomy Lessons and Other Stories by Evan Connell, and Fitzgerald's Tender is the Night).  They were especially intrigued by the more interesting and colorful dust jackets the UK versions had in comparison to the comparable US versions.  Where this particular section slowed was in the lengthy quotation from Mrs. Bridge which seemed to serve as filler to inflate the book to it's just over 200 page length.<br />That is where the book falls to the level of an average read.  When they discuss book collecting, used book stores, library sales, book fairs, auctions, and internet usage for this profession, the book flies by with beautiful descriptions.  It is interesting, enlightening, and entertaining.  When the book slides into history lessons on some of the specifics:  Evan Connell, Bloomsbury, Churchill and the Windsors, it gets away from the topic and is very distracting.  These sections are slow, and in all honesty, not very interesting.  They are not the reason the reader has picked up this book.  Personally, I only was able to read two of these such sections with any interest, one on the Edgar Awards, and one on Bram Stoker's notes for writing Dracula.  I believe these were not boring to me because of my previous interest in these topics.<br />A particularly interesting topic they discover is that of Hypermoderns.  That is, authors who are very recent who start off with low print runs, explode in popularity and see their early works elevate into low four figure collector's items while they are less than 20 years old.  Examples were mainly those of mystery writers like John Le Carre or Sue Grafton's A is for Alibi.  Mystery writers typically start off with print runs of less than 5000 copies in their first works.  When a particularly successful series moves on, first press runs are up near the 100,000 mark.  Quite a large group of people looking for that first work all of the sudden.<br />I am surprised at some of the comments the couple makes in regards to dealers, or other people they encounter; they are not hypocritical.  If they have negative thoughts, they put them in writing.  They don't appear to have any fear about possible future meetings or dealings with them.<br />If you are a fellow bibliophile, you will enjoy the book.  There are several tips on finding books you're looking for, many descriptions of the different types of collecting, the various places and types of sales.  You can tell from their descriptions of the books that they purchase that the Goldstones love books.  Their comments are filled with adoration towards the authors, publishers, etc.  They are also very kind towards certain dealers and stores that they admire.<br />When the book stays it's course (which I understand they did with Used and Rare), it is worthy of four stars.  Unfortunately, it strays into the less interesting two star categories just as often.  It is this combination that makes this an average 3 star effort.	2001-02-20
US	49629134	R1B8NI95R5SNNN	0826211852	259451415	Veneer: Stories	Books	4	3	3	N	N	This needs more readers!!	Veneer is a collection of nine short stories, eight of which have previously been published in various literary periodicals, and it is another winning effort by Steve Yarbrough.  The bulk of his previously published work, two collections of short stories and the fantastic novel Oxygen Man,  have been set in Mississippi where Yarbrough grew up.  Some of the stories in this collection are set there as well, but he also branches his settings to California.<br />What he shows us in his writing is that setting only matters in terms of background material.  The human condition is the same in Mississippi as it is in California, and one suspects we'd find it the same if Mr. Yarbrough set his next collection in Cuba, Russia, or Canada.  We are flawed individuals with needs, wants, and varying levels of the confidences necessary to acquire those needs and wants.<br />As in his past work, decisions and actions make up a great deal of explanation for results.  The title story should have more than one previously published listing, as there couldn't have been more than 10 stories this good whichever year it was originally published.  It has the narrator and his friend, Emily, dining in a window seat of a café.  He is married with two children, but away from his family as the Fourth of July is approaching as they are visiting his wife's relatives in Prague.  There is some great foreshadowing early in the story when Emily asks him if he isn't worried about being seen together, won't people see them as having an affair.  He says he only worries about reality, not appearances.<br />The story has him telling her the story of his worst Fourth of July ever.  It involves cooking steaks on a grill for his mom, dad and grandmother.  It involves disappointments for each of them.  It also gets into the relationship between his mother and father.  The story comes alive between the narrator and Emily and he ends the story with a thought that this will be his daughter's worst Fourth of July as reality and appearances are about to converge.<br />The story does not hit you over the head with the similarities between the various relationships.  It also brings fourth small decisions throughout that the reader sees leading to the final results.  As is typical in Yarbrough's fiction, the characters are well aware that they are making these decisions at the time they do so.<br />While this is the best story of the collection, there are at least five others that are just barely a notch below.  These could have been mentioned at the back of an anthology the year they were published as just misses to being added to the collections.  None of the stories seems unfinished; each has been refined to the best possible version they could be.  They are all written with the skill and subtlety of the title story.<br />Yarbrough doesn't nearly have the readership he deserves.  Do yourself a favor and pick up this 4.5 star effort.	2001-02-20
US	49629134	R10Q2X1R8RQI3W	0312187688	27139926	Used and Rare: Travels in the Book World	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Very interesting foray into the world of book collecting	This was the first book on Book Collecting by the Goldstones and I am glad I read them in the wrong order.  I walk away liking their writing much more than I would have had I read them in the order they were written.<br />This book starts with a search for a nice, hardcover version of War and Peace for less than ten dollars.  This leads Nancy to a used book store where she hears terms and statements that she had never heard before.  The Goldstones were used to going to new book stores where if you had a choice between editions of a work, it was hardcover or paperback.  They had stumbled into the world of editions and states and translations.<br />The book goes through the many different dealers in the NE states that the Goldstones visit, as well as visits to her Uncle in Chicago who has been buying rare books since before WWII.  As the Goldstones learn about book collecting, the reader learns.  This book deals in the hunt, and learning while hunting.<br />In each of the sections, we find what they are looking for, or interested in.  Then there is the learning curve that they go through with explanations from the dealers.  They learn about dust covers and their importance.  They learn about the importance of the First Edition, First State of a book.  You can have two different versions or States of the First Edition;  this was news to me.  This detailing of each hunt does not seem like the filler that descriptions of the work did in Slightly Chipped.  <br />It is for this reason that this book was that much more enjoyable and the reason I give this one 4 stars.	2001-02-20
US	49629134	R1PYSM5RVCD9P6	0743203011	378232444	Who Do You Love: Stories	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Finally some recognition	It is appalling that a writer of Jean Thompson's talent needs to have her book nominated for the National Book Award before a store like Borders will carry more than one copy of her work.  It is appalling as well, that said store will only carry copies of the work that was nominated, not her other two short story collections or two novels.  I read her original collection of short stories, &quot;The Gasoline Wars,&quot; about ten years ago and was extremely impressed.  I wasn't even aware of the three published works in between that and this newest collection.<br />&quot;Who Do You Love&quot; is a fantastic collection of stories dealing with sad individuals, at difficult times in their lives, reacting to various stages of their latest love interests.  The collection takes us through various landscapes, from the northwest rainy Oregon all the way to the grubby southeast states.  The individuals vary from young to old; the only constants being the state of sadness, and the fact that the reader cares about them.<br />It is Thompson's use of language that is most impressive.  There are times where she goes above and beyond what you would expect in her character dialogues or descriptions.  There is a specific point that you find yourself believing most writers would have stopped, but she goes on and does so successfully.  Only a confident writer would go this far.  As an observer, she obviously has a tremendous ear.  You find yourself re-reading full sections of her work just in appreciation of her art.  She is by no means a minimalist but she does not waste a word.  The stories have an intelligence to them and while melancholy in nature, there is a stunning use of wit as well.  <br />Search out her work and put it on your shelf next to the Huddle's and Bell's and others who have mastered this craft.<br />5 stars.	2001-02-20
US	49629134	R2MGR8K02C49XR	0688177719	105963786	Poachers: Stories	Books	3	7	9	N	N	Nearly a great collection	This is an excellent collection of short stories, along with the novella that gives the book its title.  Franklin's stories are set in Alabama and share some traits with other stories set in the south.  There is a directness to Franklin's writing that stems all the way back to Faulkner.  The writing has traces of Breece D'J Pancake, but with more energy.  There are reminders of the stories of Pinckney Benedict as well.  There are some common symbols amongst their writings as well as the general tones.<br />The characters in Franklin's stories have hard lives that they live hard.  There is seemingly no redemptive quality to their lives and the characters realize it.  They don't try to set up their afterlife;  as a sign in the title story says &quot;Jesus is not coming.&quot;  They drink non-stop; they contemplate and often have sex in adulterous relationships; they steal, and they don't think twice about any of it.<br />The stories do have a slightly uneven quality to them.  Some are Year End Best of quality while others seem like second or third drafts, not completed versions.  Standouts include &quot;Grit,&quot; where a foreman at a grit manufacturer gets himself in deep to a loan shark and has to run an unethical business to keep his body whole, and &quot;Dinosaur,&quot; a story that includes a rhinoceros, an old folks home and a rural gas station nearly ready to go out of business.  <br />The book ends with the title spawning novella that was a multi-award winning story.  It won an Edgar award for best mystery short story but it is more of a moody, Hitchcockian tale.  The drama and suspense build through the story as three amoral young brothers are slowly stalked and picked off, one by one, by an ex-poaching game warden.<br />As a whole the collection has enough standout material, especially the longer efforts to make you long for Franklin to move on to the novel format.  The only way I'd ever want to visit this Alabama is in the future writings of Tom Franklin.<br />3.5 stars.	2001-02-09
US	49629134	R1L9AK1258KNVB	1572330015	312819333	A Room Forever: The Life, Work and Letters of Breece D'J Pancake	Books	4	11	12	N	N	Good in depth look at this writer	This is a very good job at putting together a biography of the little written about author.  Pancake came to prominence after committing suicide when Jon Casey and John McPherson put together a posthumous collection of his short stories.  They both contribute an essay to add to the length of this slim volume and it is published to rave reviews.<br />With the help of Pancake's mother, ex-University of Virginia students and faculty as well as the treasure trove of Pancake's letters, Douglass has taken the previously thin story line of Breece's life and developed a thoughtful and interesting account of a troubled, talented young man.<br />Whether or not you enjoy Pancake's stories, you cannot help but be impressed by the power and conviction of the author's words.  Reading the biography and more importantly, the letters, you see where this power comes from.  Pancake is nearly single-minded in regards to his need to write.  Every life decision he makes reflects on how it will affect his writing before he makes it.<br />It also is very clear that this was a mentally troubled young man in need of help that he never found.  It is all the more troubling for the reader of this volume, knowing that Pancake would eventually put a rifle in his mouth and pull the trigger, watching the signs of his depression grow and develop.   There are also other writing tidbits included:  alternate attempts at a couple of his published stories as well as beginnings to other stories, outlines of stories, and unpublished stories.  While these are interesting to read, and certainly help show Pancake's development as a writer, they show that Casey and McPherson were correct in their keeping the collection of short stories slim.  Barring the discovery of a decade of Pancake's personal diaries or journals, this should go down as the authoritative account of his life and work.<br />4 stars.	2001-02-09
US	49629134	RVIXZ1UXINWKU	0684864215	331935214	Valparaiso: A Play	Books	2	3	4	N	N	Go for his fiction, not drama	This is Delillo's second published play to go with (at the time, 1999) his eleven novels.  It is a play in two acts with only five characters.  Two of the characters, Michael and his wife Livia, appear in both actsThe basis of the play is that they are being interviewed due to a trip Michael took, thinking he was going to Valparaiso, IN and ending up in Valparaiso, Chile.  This play takes on many of Delillo's usual topics, just not as well as he does in his novels.<br />Reviewing a reading of a play is always more difficult than a novel or a collection of short stories as you do not enjoy the work of art as it was meant to be presented to you.  You can only imagine the interaction between the actors, the way the set looks, the manner and cadences of speaking.  As it reads, the play is a darkly comic vision of the way Americans are developed by our media culture.  <br />We see the development of Michael through a series of interviews of himself and his wife.  Act I has numerous interviews by unnamed interviewers.  In these we see Michael developing a larger sense of himself, and his worth, and the worth of his story.  We see some interviewers helping him create this sense of self-importance by hanging on his every word.  The media culture takes a beating in this play, as it does in most Delillo novels.  They want to know everything that happened, everything that didn't happen, what he thought about what happened, what he thought about what didn't happen, what Livia thought, etc.  It all has to be documented on their radio or television shows because if it isn't, it didn't happen.  Act II has a single television show interview of both Michael and Livia and has an almost Jerry Springer feel to it as Livia at one point announces the child she is pregnant with is not Michael's.  <br />This play falls flat in comparison to Delillo's novels and in terms of what it is trying to say.  The play form seems too constrictive for Delillo's style.  The same problems can be found in his first published play The Day Room.  Without room to expound his ideas in narrative format, needing to use conversation, and in a tight format, Delillo relies too much on repetition, and topic jumping to make his points.  They are made and done so quickly, leaving the reader feeling beaten about the head before Act II is halfway over.<br />Read Mao II, or White Noise if you want to get a great understanding of Delillo's views of modern day culture;  if you only have a little time and feel the need to get a small glimpse of Delillo's talents, read Valparaiso.	2001-01-25
US	49629134	RRYJJ1MFFNPBV	0743201655	561865904	The Oxygen Man: A Novel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Decisons - the key to life	In Sunflower County, Mississippi, Steve Yarbrough has delivered a wonderful setting for his first novel, Oxygen Man.  The characters are diverse, and richly drawn.  The countryside is beautifully described.  The economic situation is fully understood because of his descriptive writing, though he doesn't go into any specifics.  As you delve further into the book, Mr. Yarbrough goes back and forth from 1972 to 1996.  Through the two different periods, looked at through a single generation, you get a feel for the general community.  In this community, he has also given us the potential for his own Yoknapatowpha County.  Just what every &quot;southern&quot; writer prays for, and hopes to never hear;  the comparison to Faulkner.<br />There are numerous stories to tell in Sunflower County and while a couple are told in great detail, specifically the stories of Ned Rose and his sister Daisy, there are many others that we are given just enough of to hope that Mr. Yarbrough plumbs the area again.  There are the stories of the cotton farmers turned catfish farmers:  the Bells, Salters, and Morellis; the story of the Gautreaux family, bankers from generation to generation.  There are also Beer Smith, owner of the lounge Daisy works at as well as an entire population of slaves turned indentured servants living on the Bell property (leading the reader to assume there were such populations on the Salter and Morelli property as well).  All of these stories would be similar in one nature, they would be stories about both our destiny due to fate, as well as our futures stemming from decisions made.  <br />The story we are given by Mr. Yarbrough in this effort is mainly that of Ned and Daisy Rose.  He works for Mack Bell, mainly checking the oxygen levels in his catfish ponds each and every night, but also doing whatever else Mack demands.  He follows these instructions, seemingly without even thinking over the potential ramifications of his actions.  She works as a bartender at a local lounge, going out of her way to avoid her brother, though they live together in the house they grew up in.  This is the Ned and Daisy Rose of 1996.  <br />We are also treated to the Rose family circa 1972, when their parents have Ned and Daisy go to the local private school, thanks to a local scholarship organization, in order to keep them in a segregated environment.  Ned fits in better than Daisy, mainly due to his athletic ability, in an area of the world where Saturday Night Football comes second only to breathing.  Daisy is looked down upon by the wealthier girls of the school due to her K-Mart clothing.<br />The story line in 1996 has Ned and Daisy living together in silence.  They don't speak to each other and for the most part, their schedules leave them from seeing each other all that often.  Ned isn't often found without a beer, and his sister has an unhealthy obsession with the actions of her mother during Ned and Daisy's childhood.  Early in the novel, the reader may believe that the actions of their parents may be the eventual reason behind whatever problem the later Ned and Daisy have.<br />The 1972 story line has the kids in high school.  Their father is a hard drinker who moves from job to job as a painter (after a failed effort at farming).  Their mother has a deserved reputation as a woman willing to bed down with any man when her husband is away.  There is only one event that can be considered a family event; the other three go to watch Ned play in a football game.  They sit together near the top of the stands, the father yelling frequently when Ned does something good.  After halftime, he comes back from a visit to the ground with a flask of alcohol.  He has already had some, begins making accusations to his wife, cursing frequently which draws the ire of gentlemen near him.  He nearly gets in a brawl, and he and the mother begin to make up right there in the stands.  Daisy is actually relieved when he falls over a few rows of people as it stops the two of them from going too far in the making up process out in public.<br />Ned does run with the money crowd as he plays football with Mack, and Rick among others.  Daisy on the other hand, is so sure she doesn't want to be like her mother that she ignores her growing beauty and really only associates with a friend named Cindy Riggins, who was also on scholarship to the school.  We see Ned's violent side begin to be exposed in visits back to 1972;  killing a Black store owner, nearly choking Mack to death in his car, as well as other incidents.  At the same time, we begin to see the development in Daisy's self-respect, as Denny Gautreaux goes beyond just showing interest in her.  While he is the whipping boy of the football team, she gets to see a much more athletic side of him.<br />By 1996, Ned is doing Mack's bidding.  He still socializes with Mack, Rick, and Al but it is much more obvious that he is of a lower class then they are in terms of their status within their group.  He is obsessed about his mother and her whereabouts and who they're with.  He is also obviously concerned about his relationship with Daisy, or lack thereof.  Daisy is quietly passing the time.  She doesn't leave the house much.  When she does, she goes into areas of town that she knows in advance who she might run into.  Not Ned, not Mack, not anybody she doesn't want to see.  She begins to go out with Beer Smith, owner of the lounge she worked at.  It started out as a couple of lonely people going out to dinner, and progressed;  very similar to the way she and Denny started out.<br />It is Beer talking with Daisy, and another visit to 1972 that finally brings up the source of the siblings relationship problem.  Needless to say it has to do with Ned and Mack and Denny.  Explaining it would ruin an important part of the book.  It is the reliving of this, as well as the burgeoning relationship with Beer that gets Daisy to decide to come to an initial level of forgiveness with Ned.  It is at about the same time that Ned has finally developed enough shame of his relationship with Mack that he decides to act out upon it.  <br />Decisions.  Decisions and their ramifications.  That is what Yarbrough's story is about.  How our decisions lead to actions and how these actions have ramifications on the rest of our life.  Some things we cannot control, race, class, when we are born all have effects as well, but it is our decisions and actions that have the longest lasting effect on the rest of our lives.  This story is powerful and should be read.	2001-01-23
US	49629134	R3UIQKNOLOSTU7	0679442464	480461200	Ten Indians: A novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A Masterpiece!!	Bell's ninth novel is a stunning accomplishment; alternating between the explosive language of Baltimore's drug culture with the meditative qualities of Tae Kwon Do, he examines race relations, hope and compassion, and most specifically, the moral dilemma of doing and not just saying.  The novel takes places in modern day Baltimore, both in the suburbs of upper middle class, as well as the inner city urban homes.  <br />Mike Devlin seemingly has it all, a successful psychiatric practice, a nice home in one of the wealthier suburbs, a loving wife and a daughter getting ready to go off to the college of her choice in a year. He is also a black belt in Tae Kwon Do, and as the top student in his Master's school, Devlin is sent to start a new branch.  This branch is set up in the inner city of Baltimore.  It is here that the rest of our cast is introduced.  <br />We meet many inner city youth at his school:  Trig, Gyp, Kool-Whip, Freon, Sharmane, Tamara, Buster, D-Trak, Clayvon, Stuttz, amongst others.  Here we see the opposite life to Devlin's; those with nearly nothing.  Living in projects, one or maybe no parents, and children way before they were ready.<br />There are virtually no minor characters in this novel besides maybe some of Devlin's patients.  They are used to foreshadow some events and to allow the reader the possibility that Devlin is not satisfied with his current life.  Over half of the dope dealers and those residing in the projects are fully realized.  We understand what they do, how they do it, and sadly, why they do it.  <br />Bell is one of the few authors out there seriously writing about race issues.  It's as if he needs to do so, as if his writing about the problem will help him come to some conclusions. In lesser writer's hands, this set up could lead to a very cliché book.  In the hands of Bell it becomes anything but.  His use of language is true; as the story alternates between various narrators (including an omniscient third person narrator), the language takes on the structure and vocabulary expected.   <br />To the outsider, as Devlin gets more involved in his school, he begins acting strangely.  To some it would appear as some sort of a mid-life crisis.  Even his wife, an ex-social worker with some professional acumen, feels he is sliding down a tunnel of depression and warns him he won't drag her along.  He even struggles himself at times to come to words for what he is doing, but before his final actions he comes to a realization.  <br />He is not succumbing to the notion that one individual can't make a difference.  He is following the words of his Master and doing what he says, not just saying it.  He is getting involved in lives, trying to make a difference.  For an hour a day, he is fairly successful.  It is the other 23 that put him to the test.<br />There is plenty of action throughout the novel;  both in and out of the Tae Kwon Do school.  Bell does a great job of describing hand to hand combat.  His writing allows the reader to visualize each action, almost well enough to believe he or she is learning Tae Kwon Do, banging along with the characters, or watching Devlin's patients describe their lives.  <br />You won't soon forget Devlin, his daughter Michelle, Trig or any of the other characters in this book; their efforts, actions and plight will stick with readers for awhile.  Amazingly enough, Bell published this book in between volumes I and II of his Haitian trilogy.  With ten novels in print now, and two short story collections, Madison Smartt Bell has enough to keep you busy reading for a long time.  Take advantage.	2001-01-15
US	49629134	R2HLWBR69R2WJ	0268036519	905008485	Not: A Trio (Two Stories and a Novella)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The marvel of subtlety	This wonderful collection has two stories and a novella which intertwine to tell us the story of Claire McClelland, a psychologist based in Bennington, VT.  It's not a very pretty story, and though the first two stories foreshadow the novella, it is done so with the extreme subtlety that only a writer as strong and confident of his world as Huddle could pull off.  <br />The first story, titled &quot;Village Tale,&quot; is told from the viewpoint of Claire's current lover, Danny Marlow.  Danny and Claire have a physical relationship and that is all they have.  He arranges for one hour sessions with her at her office and they lock the door and go at it on the office carpet.  They rarely speak to each other.  They do not even see each other outside the office.  Unlike your basic stereotyped female character, it is Claire who insists things are this way.  Towards the end of the story, he instigates a conversation between the two of them, similar to those she typically has with patients in her office.  Her responses to his questions cement our understanding of her feelings.  This story also foreshadows a major event in Claire's life in regards to her second husband, Ben.  <br />The second story, &quot;Wherever I am Not,&quot; is told from Ben's viewpoint.  It involves a phone conversation he has with his ex-wife while Claire sleeps in the bedroom down the hall very early one morning.  It is through his conversation with the ex-wife, while learning about their failures, that we learn more details and facts about Claire.  The end of the story, though foretold in &quot;Village Tale,&quot; still catches the reader off guard, bringing up an emotional response somewhat akin to that you'd expect Claire to have.<br />&quot;Not,&quot; is the novella at the end of the book.  It is told in numerous short lists or paragraphs.  Only one or two of these reaches the length of a page, but they each tell incredible amounts about Claire.  The essence of this novella is Claire suffering abreakdown of sorts in her office and deciding that her entire life has been a series of incidents where she has convinced herself she was happy.  She leaves her life behind and goes into the mountains where she has been willed some property.  Her intention is to take the right moment to end her chicanery.  The will she or won't she aspect is not nearly as important as the little bits and pieces that Huddle gives us throughout the individual paragraphs, lists and incidents.  These include areas of Claire's life we've seen before in the two stories as well as those new to the reader.<br />The only disappointing this about this collection is that it is over so quickly; the book is only 105 pages long.  The best thing is that it didn't need to be any longer.  In this short period of space, Huddle has given us a fully developed character and others that are nearly fully realized though they're barely mentioned in terms of space and words.  He has followed his muse, and delved into an area of domestic question, relationships and absence of feeling, and plowed through it in his own way.  His way is spare, it is subtle, and it is a wonder to admire.	2001-01-12
US	49629134	RHIGWAPRWK5EI	0316088641	271500449	Show Me A Hero	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Very interesting look at diverisification of america	A well done look at the diversifying of America.  Lisa Belkin, a NY Times reporter, gives us this look at the city of Yonkers, NY and the ramifications of a Federal Court Justice requiring said city to provide public housing on it's East Side, the good side of the tracks.<br />Belkin has taken the events in a chronological order from many different views:  Nicholas Wasiscko, voted in as the youngest mayor of any major U.S. city; Judge Sand, the Federal Court Justice; Mary Dorman, a citizen from the East Side who joined in with the protestors; Alma Febles, a single mother with young children from the West Side; and Norma O'Neal, a health care provider from the West Side who's eyesight was deteriorating at a rapid rate are some of the main characters in this unfolding crisis.<br />The United States Justice Department filed suit against the city of Yonkers and was soon joined by the Yonkers Branch of the N.A.A.C.P. in claiming that the city had systematically kept the Black citizens down by continuing to provide Public Housing on the West Side of the city only.  They claimed this created a ghetto environment that led to a lack of advancement of the population.  When Judge Sand issued his 163 page opinion, it quickly became a hot topic within the city residents and the upcoming Mayoral and Council race debates.<br />Nicholas Wasiscko, who had wanted to be the mayor of Yonkers since his early teens, saw this as a means of separating his views from his opponents and declared he would not follow the decision if elected.  The election was a very close one, but he won.  As he began overseeing new city council meetings, large throngs of citizens began appearing and protesting the ruling.<br />Eventually, the City lost all of its fights within the court system and Nicholas decided it was time to do the right thing as mayor and be a leader where necessary.  He pushed for acceptance and compliance with the ruling.  This led to many confrontations for him within his city counciland outside with the citizenry.<br />The plan was for three sets of townhouses to be built on the East Side and a lottery of eligible West Side project residents that would determine who would live in them.  The stories of Alma Febles and Norma O'Neal are followed closely for the ten year process from the beginning of this book to the end.  Mary Dorman's metamorphoses from protestor to integrator to cheerleader of the West Enders.<br />Belkin does a wonderful job of allowing the reader to make their own decision as to whether or not the decision by the judge was correct or not;  whether or not the plan worked.  She gets all of the facts in place and does so chronologically.  The participants become more well rounded as one goes through the book.  It is very cleanly written;  she takes a large amount of information and dispenses it clearly.  Even with the numerous sides to the story, it doesn't wander into various tales;  Belkin keeps the reader on the important track.<br />3.5 stars	2001-01-10
US	49629134	R6IZYB3945M69	0618082336	673429612	The Story of a Million Years	Books	4	1	3	N	N	The story of relationships	This short (186 pages) novel is the debut effort by master short story writer and poet, David Huddle.  He has been published regularly for over 20 years but because of format is not generally well known.  Hopefully this book will help put him on the map.  If it does get him a location there, it will be well deserved.<br />&quot;the story...&quot; is many stories combined to help tell the story of relationships.  By expanding his efforts into novel format, Mr. Huddle has perhaps forced his writing to grow into areas he is less comfortable with then he has been able to in the past.  His last short story collection &quot;Intimates,&quot; though extremely well written, was difficult to read straight through as many of the characters in the individual stories were very similar to each other.<br />While the four main characters in the book have many similarities, they are also extremely varied, both individually and within their relationships.  We're given Allen Ballston Crandell (known as A.B.C. through the bulk of the book), and his wife Marcy.  We also have Jimmy Rago and his wife Uta.  The two couples are brought together while at the University of Virginia and develop relationships independent of their primary couplings.<br />What Huddle does is go back and forth in time, bringing forth event after event, to show us how relationships begin, develop, transfer, unwind, and dissolve.  He does this both with spoken and unspoken words.  As the story develops and we go through more events, our understanding of each of the characters grows;  we feel more understanding for their happiness, sadness, actions and lack thereof.  We also get his by bits and pieces as the story advances that strike our earlier reactions to character moves or decisions as perhaps judgmental and unfair.  I believe further readings of this novel would advance these understandings and reactions even further.<br />Huddle does nothing to draw attention to his writing;  it is straightforward and spare.Instead he gives us character development in a subtle yet accelerated pace.  He gives us characters to care about, relationships to worry about.  His characters don't give speeches and the story isn't full of long diatribes about what life is, or relationships are.  It is the story of how actions and secrets define us more than words.  Of how secrets and silence and lack of actions push our relationships to their terms.	2000-12-28
US	49629134	R22TV8YWX2H8P7	0805055959	365970422	Boys Themselves: A Return to Single-Sex Education	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Good first effort	Boys Themselves:  A Return to Single-Sex Education by Michael Ruhlman<br />This book was written by Mr. Ruhlman before he gained fame with his &quot;The Making of a Chef&quot; and &quot;The Soul of a Chef&quot; combo;  it was his first effort at reporting and writing a full length book. The method Ruhlman uses here is similar to the two later efforts;  he spends the same amount of time as his subjects at their craft.  In this case, that means he is present at University School, a boys only school in the Cleveland , OH area, from just prior to first class, day one, through graduation and a faculty party afterwards.  <br />The difference in his approach in this effort is the lack of infiltration.  Mr. Ruhlman is not posing as a student, or a faculty member;  he has the Headmaster Richard Hawley's permission to wander as he wish, taking notes, asking questions, observing.  This is completely different than the efforts Ruhlman takes to retain his anonymity from his subjects in &quot;The Making of a Chef,&quot; and the first section of &quot;The Soul of a Chef.&quot;  One cannot help but wonder if a layer of two of self-consciousness wouldn't have been removed from some of the students and/or faculty members throughout if they were unaware of his intentions.<br />Another similarity is the writing itself;  Ruhlman does a great job of taking real people and developing them as fully three dimensional characters throughout his books.  We see development in students, faculty, and the headmaster as well as observations by the author himself which show his developing ideas regarding his topic.  Through his eyes, Ruhlman makes these people become ones that you care about;  you want to know what has happened to them since graduation day in the same sort of detail that he has given you with this school year.<br />In situations where there are large issues at the school, the problems are shown by every conceivable angle;  student, faculty, parents, headmaster and occasionally his own thoughts.  Philosophy and morality take up a great deal of time at the school.   Some of the topics, as well as smaller issues amongst individuals, are followed throughout the book as they proceed and develop through the year.<br />The one problem I had was a slight lack of confidence Mr. Ruhlman had in his own writing sporadically throughout the book.  He would follow up a well written paragraph with a blunt recap as if he felt he was perhaps too subtle in his descriptions.  The full text of the book is reminiscent of this as well as we get 18 chapters of the school year, with wonderful descriptions of the differences between Single Sex and Co-Educational school systems.  This is followed up by an explanational 19th chapter that wraps up his opinions on the topic.<br />This problem was a minor one however when compared to the lyrical writing, &quot;character&quot; development and subtle observations spread throughout the book.<br />3.5 Stars.	2000-12-14
US	49629134	R21M977CHM9YLI	1859842844	676518692	No One Left To Lie To: The Values of the Worst Family	Books	4	16	24	N	N	I like this guy	Christopher Hitchens is a writer for &quot;The Nation.&quot;  For those of you who are not political junkies, this magazine is just barely to the right of Karl Marx in it's convictions.  This makes it all the more interesting that Mr. Hitchens takes the Clinton Administration to task for all of the scandal issues America has endured over the last 7 ½ years.<br />He goes through campaign lies, Right Wing Conspiracy lies, Travelgate lies, as well as the sexual scandal issues.  He does not concentrate heavily on the sexual issues however;  as he states &quot;It's not the lipstick traces, it's the Revlon connection traces.&quot;<br />His writing is very witty, sharp and cutting.  It is very clear;  his arguments don't embellish or stretch, they are dead on and accurate.  The positive thing for conservatives reading this book is that it isn't on Regency Press;  there can be no finger pointing of what do you expect him or her to say.  The distressing this is that the biggest complaints coming from Mr. Hitchens are that Clinton bailed on the liberal policies and used &quot;triangulation&quot; to get re-elected.  It left me wondering if he would have been so sharply upset by Bill Clinton'' morality issues had he stayed the true left course?<br />With the indignation the book is written with, I believe he would have.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R281P5QDC1L5KS	0679451412	135864042	Orchid Fever: A Horticultural Tale of Love, Lust, and Lunacy	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Orchid lover Fever strikes author	Orchid Fever is a state of obsession.  We all have something we're obsessed with:  politics, the abortion issue, our spouses sexual history.  Readers of my reviews know of my personal obsessions with Richard Nixon which have even led me to tracing the path a play by Russell Lees titled &quot;Nixon's Nixon&quot; has taken via the internet for the last 4 years.<br />People with Orchid Fever may just be the most obsessed people on the planet.  What Eric Hansen has done is trek the world, finding those with Orchid Fever, and chronicled their lives and stories.  Perhaps the only obsession ranking with those with Orchid Fever is that obsession Mr. Hansen has.  Towards the end of the book, a colleague of his tells him he has Orchid Fever as he is attempting to find a particular French teenager.  He comes to agree with his colleague, but I beg to differ.  Mr. Hanson has a different obsession altogether and we are blessed for this fact;  Eric Hansen is obsessed by the stories of those who suffer from Orchid Fever.  <br />I cannot do justice to the vignettes in this book;  from the Japanese businessman who worried about his greenhouse before the safety of his wife during an earthquake, to the aforementioned French teenager who has turned a three story apartment building into a single unit containing jungle like rooms, laboratories, office space, etc., Eric Hansen perfectly captures the lust these people share.  There are sixteen chapters and each is in itself a wonderful story about somebody trapped within the confines of Orchid Fever and what it has done to them.<br />The other predominant theme of the book explains the lunacy of CITES, the organization that controls inter-country travel of animals and fauna.  The gestapo like tactics of this organization will have you infuriated by the end of the book.  My only complaint is that there is no suggestion on how to help eliminate this problem for Fever sufferers in the future.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R3K6WLDHXOI6X9	0140275010	382334052	Cod: A Biography of the Fish that Changed the World	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Well worth the reputation	This book was a recommended book by T.C. Boyle, by far my favorite author (sorry A. Hagy and M. Albrecht).  My assumption is he was herded towards it because his forthcoming novel, &quot;A Friend of the Earth&quot; is to be about ecology, environmental issues, and the like.<br />The book came out in 97 and was one of the New York Times top 25 books of the year.  For good reason.<br />Kurlansky writes in a very easy to read manner, well written, informative, at times even humorous.  Even sprinkled with dozens of cod recipes.<br />The history of Cod is the history of the world, the history of North America, a political essay, an ecological history, and of course, natural history.  There are no footnotes, so I am assuming that the book was well researched by the attention to detail Kurlansky exhibits.<br />North America was found due to cod.  The Vikings were able to follow Cod from Europe to Nova Scotia and Greenland.  It allowed them to have food the entire journey and not have to turn around.  The U.S. revolution was partially due to Cod and the trade of it.<br />There is an underlying message about the environment, as the Cod has become very endangered, as well as endangering many people, cities, lands that rely (relied) on Cod for income.  Technology allowed us to get ahead of the natural production of this fish and numerous others according to the author.  (Once discovered as a delicacy, Orange Roughy almost disappeared after only five years).  Read in between the lines and one finds that it is the government subsidizing the fishing industry.<br />The last few chapters are almost painful as entire chunks of Canada and Northeastern U.S. watch hopefully for Cod replenishments so they can go back to their old lives.<br />In a short 264 pages, Mr. Kurlansky delivers 5 stars worth of information.  Heavily recommended.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R28EKU0320SYKY	0670856045	480160740	The Tortilla Curtain	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Another winner for Boyle	For this being my favorite author, it is pretty embarrassing to be reviewing his book from 1997 or 98 so late in the game, but hey, there's been three kids born in that time and a bunch of other stuff.<br />I enjoyed this book quite a bit.  I know this is distressing to at least one member of my personal review list but so goes it, for as much as we agree on, we disagree just as much.<br />This book is the one where Mr. Boyle tried to become more socially aware in his writing (at least in my opinion because I truly don't believe he meant to do so in &quot;East is East&quot;).  There are two unfolding stories in this book, which of course intertwine;  the stories of the Mossbacker's (forgive the spelling), an unabashedly yuppie couple in the heart of Southern California, and that of an illegally immigrated Mexican couple, Candido and America.<br />Some felt T.C. was too harsh on the liberals in his not so subtle bashing of the yuppies.  I think some of those who felt so were pissed that he told their dirty little secrets.  He does seem more interested in the immigrant story line at times.  This would be my one complaint, I didn't find the story lines equal in interest or worth, even though they were meant to be.  This wasn't like &quot;The Road to Welleville&quot; with 30 story lines where some had to be more important than others;  with only two they need to be more even in importance.<br />Many didn't like that he didn't take a specific side in the Prop 187 issue which was a major political topic at the time.  I don't think it was his place to.  I think he wanted people to think about the issue in ways maybe they hadn't.  I know I did.  The book did have his usual verbal wizardry and humor, black as usual.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R1UT56Y7ZM27TF	0465026133	802361939	In Search Of Deep Throat: The Greatest Political Mystery Of Our Time	Books	3	2	3	N	N	I found this lacking excitement	Leonard Garnett, a man associated with Richard M Nixon since 1963, when Nixon moved from California to New York under the guise of joining a large law firm.  Garnett was employed by that firm, and when it became obvious Nixon was putting together a run for 1968, Garnett was right there with him.<br />As an insider, he himself has been suggested by others to be the infamous Deep Throat from Woodward and Bernstein's &quot;All the President's Men.&quot;  The amount of research that Garnett put into this quest of his is quite impressive.  The spine of his copy of Woodward and Bernstein's effort is worn, cracked and broken he has read it so many times.  <br />He makes what seems to be a breakthrough in terms of this quest when he comes to the conclusion that a source of Woodward's is indeed the same individual who is listed as a different source of Bernstein.  It's this tidbit that has him realize that Woodward's source could be an ex-member of the Executive Branch.<br />This allows him to decide that lawyer John Sears, last seen helming and being fired from Reagan's 1980 run for the White House.  He is so certain of his conclusion that he feels if Sears is not Deep Throat, that there never was one.<br />You need to be interested in the topic to get through this one.  You should have read some of the books on either Nixon or Watergate as well.  Even with this interest and knowledge, I can't give this one much more than a 3 out of 5 star rating.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R2LSU36X3P6WII	067089155X	134194364	Soul of a Chef: The Journey Toward Perfection	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A great follow up to the making of a chef	Those of you who were on the mailing list (sorry, it wasn't email back then) in 1998 saw Mr. Ruhlman get an A for his 2nd book, &quot;The Making of a Chef,&quot; which was about his taking the first semester at the Culinary Institute of America and learning to cook there.<br />This book follows up strongly.  It's probably a stronger effort than the first, but still only rates an A (sorry, we hold out that Plus for special books like &quot;World's End&quot; and &quot;All the Pretty Horses&quot;).  In this effort, Mr. Ruhlman isn't part of the subject so there isn't as much being impressed with himself as there was last time.<br />This covers three sections:  the first follows 7 chefs attempting to become American Certified Master Chefs.  So far only 53 of the 180 chefs who have taken the test have passed.  Only 1 of these 7 will do so.  The story ends up following Brian Polcyn of Milford, MI (his restaurant Five Lakes Grill gets rave reviews regularly in this area).  He isn't the one who passes which makes his story even more interesting.  The test lasts 10 days, at about 16 hours per day;  you get tired reading about it.  It's a fair look at whether or not the test is necessary, if it accomplishes anything, why the chefs go through it, etc.<br />Section II follows the Lola Bistro in Cleveland, OH.  The restauranteur there is named Michael and he attended and graduated from the CIA.  However, he doesn't truly act like a graduate from there.  His restaurant is a fun place to go, mainly stemming from his attitude (he cannot remember a day that the happy didn't outweigh the bad in his entire life).  You see how restaurants do not need to follow the CIA formula to the tee to be successful and good.<br />Section III takes us to Napa Valley and Thomas Keller's The French Laundry.  This is taken to be the best restaurant in America and possibly the world.  It is interesting to see how Mr. Keller's career developed as he didn't have any formal food training.  The place sounds incredible if you like small, gourmet ideas and lots of them.  The typical meal includes 5 courses, pre-determined by the Chef.<br />All in all, another great look at the food/restaurant/chef industry by Michael Ruhlman.  If you have any interest in the above, or like to watch Emeril Lagasse from time to time, you will enjoy this one.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R3ITL5EGJDV4HA	0393049477	101592561	Dark Horses and Black Beauties: Animals, Women, a Passion	Books	3	5	5	N	N	A short bit away from greatness	This short book falls short of it's potential by giving each tributary that develops less time to wander than it deserves.  As an exploration to come up with ideas about the reasons behind the obsessive attraction girls and women have with horses, the book is excellent.  Where it loses itself is in the follow up of each of the ideas that get brought up.<br />She wisely observes that the world would be a different place without horses as they helped us become mobile, build cities, and fight wars (with some very disturbing statistics regarding the number of horses killed in such endeavors).<br />She begins numerous theories regarding the questions she has:  why the attraction between horses and females?  Why are almost all dedicated riders female?  How does such a strong bond of communication develop between horses and the women who own/ride them?  etc.  and again, the ideas brought forth are interesting and seemingly valid.  <br />Some more discussion, thought provoking comments, and conclusions would have bumped this up to four stars from the three that it gets without them.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R3O62ZJLC1ET27	0716740176	257892248	Tyrannosaurus Sue: The Extraordinary Saga of the Largest, Most Fought over T-Rex Ever Found	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Reads like a spy novel	A fairly short (288 pages) narrative that almost reads like a spy novel.<br />A quick summary:  Peter Larson, a dinosaur hunter in charge of the Black Hills Institute has a paleontological study in South Dakota.  It is near Cheyenne River Sioux territory.  Sue Hendrickson, a field paleontologist, finds bones sticking out of a wall (cliff).  She and Peter recognize them as T-Rex bones, from some 65,000,000 years ago.  They contact the Native Indian who supposedly owns the land and &quot;buy&quot; the skeleton for $5000.<br />This skeleton turns out to be almost 95% full (unheard of) as well as the largest T-Rex to date.  Within a very short time Sue (named after the field paleontologist) was claimed by Black Hills Institute, Maurice Williams (the Native American), Sioux tribe, as well as the U.S. Government who had the FBI raid Black Hills Institute to take the skeleton.<br />There are claims, counterclaims, criminal claims, prosecutions and prison terms.  it all leads to an auction at Sotheby's for an unheard of $8,360,000.<br />The bulk of the book is told from Peter Larson's point of view and is definitely more sympathetic towards him than any of the other claimants.<br />If you have even the slightest interest in dinosaurs, conspiracy books, or legal thrillers, this should be added to your bedside table.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R2KR3HQ6ETX5PZ	1569246165	307000544	Best Food Writing 2000	Books	3	11	12	N	N	Let's hope this series continues in future	The first in what I can only hope will be an annually released collection of articles culled from various food magazines, newsletters, newspapers and web sites.<br />The book is set up in five sections:  Stocking the Larder, Home Cooking, Someone's in the Kitchen, Dining Around and Personal Tastes.  This works nicely as you get various views and ideas regarding similar topics.  You also get the various topics listed as sections:  a full section of articles on choosing foods, one on cooking at home, etc.  <br />There are articles by such food luminaries as Ruth Reichl, Calvin Trillin, Phyllis Richman, John Thorpe, and Micheal Ruhlman among others.<br />The book serves as a good introduction for those interested in food and like topics.  If you like the article &quot;Natural Born Keller&quot; by Michael Ruhlman, you'll probably enjoy his full length book &quot;The Soul of a Chef.&quot;  Enjoying Anthony Bourdain's humorous excerpt from his &quot;Kitchen Confidential&quot; will suggest you go find a copy of that to get the rest of his story.  I enjoyed John Thorpe's article enough to visit his website, and plan on purchasing at least one of his 3 or 4 books of article collections.<br />The other above mentioned food luminaries have full length books, or collections, in print that you can decide to try or plan on avoiding based on the 5 to 10 page selections by Ms. Hughes.<br />The other introduction you are given is to the various magazines that are out there:  Gourmet, Wine Spectator, etc. are represented here.  Again, by reading articles that are representative of these magazines, you get a feel for your tastes in writing.<br />If you have any interest in food, restaurants, chefs, etc., you need to check this book out.	2000-12-05
US	49629134	R10A0IR2Y3P4PJ	0385497369	297192441	Midnight Sun	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Searching for Heroes	As he did with the coming of age novel with &quot;If I Don't Six,&quot;  Elwood Reid has put his own spin on the finding yourself novel.  Elwood's  own spin follows the style he has employed in his past work, the  aforementioned novel and &quot;What Salmon Know,&quot; a great collection  of short stories:  direct language, fluid plot structure, and the use of  dialogue to move his story forward.  This spin also includes drinking,  fighting, survivalists/cultists, sex, fire, gold and a plot intricate  enough to include them all exactly where they belong, and it's set in the  wilderness of Alaska to boot.<br />Elwood continues his very strong style of  writing.  His taut, muscular prose has drawn comparisons to Conrad,  Hemingway, London, and Harrison.  He writes with respect of his subjects,  in a fairly dark manner.  Though the sentences are short, they are powerful  and mesmerizing.  There is a poetry to his writing.<br />&quot;Midnight  Sun's&quot; plot is intriguing and the story is a page turner with few  flaws.  Towards the end of the book, there is a scene which reveals a  slight twist to the plot that seems overly foreshadowed because the  surprise wasn't nearly as great as it could have been.  Though with  Elwood's straight ahead, honest prose, this may have been intended.  <br />The  protagonist, Jack, has ended up in Alaska, moving from job to job,  searching for something.  He is deemed soft to some degree by his  compatriots, because he attended a bit of college.  He and a buddy take a  special job, going to rescue a man's daughter from a cult leader and bring  her back to her father before he dies.  This takes them into the wilderness  of Alaska, which is vividly described, where they find there is much more  to the story.  <br />Prior to the special job, Jack goes back and forth  between being content with his life, and feeling he should be finding  something with more stature.  He is as unheroic a main character as has  been seen in recent fiction which plays off well with his sidekick, Burke,  who plays the John Wayne hero in his own mind.<br />As much as this novel is  about searching for oneself, it is also about heroism and the effects being  or not being a hero has on an individual.  Most people have all been in  situations similar to those that Jack and Burke get themselves in, where a  decision and an action needs to be made.  It is how we respond to those  situations that define us, and help decide our future paths.  Reid uses  Jack and Burke to show both the positive and negative results of those  decisions and actions, but he doesn't  necessarily come to any conclusions.   He does what all good writers do, gets his readers to think about it, and  come up with their own ideas.  This is a book that needs to be read.	2000-09-12
US	49629134	R1GE3UQRTYF4RU	0385497369	297192441	Midnight Sun	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Searching for Heroes	As he did with the coming of novel with &quot;If I Don't Six,&quot; Elwood  Reid has put his own spin on the finding yourself novel.  Elwood's own spin  follows the style he has employed in his past work, the aforementioned  novel and &quot;What Salmon Know,&quot; a great collection of short  stories:  direct language, fluid plot structure, and the use of dialogue to  move his story forward.  This spin also includes drinking, fighting,  survivalists/cultists, sex, fire, gold and a plot intricate enough to  include them all exactly where they belong, and it's set in the wilderness  of Alaska to boot.<br />Elwood continues his very strong style of writing.   His taut, muscular prose has drawn comparisons to Conrad, Hemingway, London  and Harrison.  He writes with respect of his subjects, in a fairly dark  manner.  Though the sentences are short, they are powerful and mesmerizing.   There is a poetry to his writing.<br />&quot;Midnight Sun's&quot; plot is  intriguing and the story is a page turner with few flaws.  Towards the end  of the book, there is a scene which reveals a slight twist to the plot that  seems overly foreshadowed because the surprise wasn't nearly as great as it  could have been.  Though with Elwood's straight ahead, honest prose, this  may have been intended.<br />The protagonist, Jack, has ended up in Alaska,  moving from job to job, searching for something.  He is deemed soft to some  degree by his compatriots, because he attended a bit of college.  He and a  buddy take a special job, going to rescue a man's daughter from a cult  leader and bring her back to her father before he dies.  This takes them  into the wilderness of Alaska, which is vividly described, where they find  there is much more to the story.<br />Prior to the special job, Jack goes back  and forth between being content with his life, and feeling he should be  finding something with more stature.  He is as unheroic a main character as  has been seen in recent fiction which plays off well with his sidekick,  Burke, who plays the John Wayne hero in his own mind.<br />As much as this  novel is about searching for oneself, it is also about heroism and the  effects of being or not being a hero has on an individual.  Most people  have all been in situations similar to those that Jack and Burke get  themselves in, where a decision and an action needs to be made.  It is how  we respond to those situations that define us, and help decide our future  paths.  Reid uses Jack and Burke to show both the positive and negative  results of those decisions and actions, but he doesn't necessarily come to  any conclusions. He does what all good writers do, he gets his readers to  think about it, and come up with their own ideas.  This is a book that  needs to be read.	2000-09-05
US	49629134	R1MKALZF7ZLLBJ	1555973019	748499878	Graveyard of the Atlantic	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Another winner by Hagy	Alyson Hagy continues to improve.  I thought &quot;Hardware River&quot; was an improvement over &quot;Madonna on Her Back&quot; when it was released.<br />These stories are even tighter.  It opens with  &quot;Sharking,&quot; a very good story regarding shark fishing, knowing  oneself, relationships, and foolishness.  The protagonist doesn't have a  hell of a lot going for him yet you continue turning pages to follow his  story.<br />The book ends with &quot;Search Bay,&quot; a much longer story  that was chosen by Annie Proulx to be included in the Best American Short  Stories 1997.  It was a well deserved honor.  The title story was a  finalist for the Mississippi Review Award.<br />Each of these stories has been  published before in both large and small journals.<br />The material isn't as  dark as &quot;Hardware River&quot; was but it covers the same sort of folk:   honest, every day people with small, normal problems.  They are written  about in a way that makes you care about them and their situations.  This  is the mark of writing that needs to be read.<br />My advice is to read  &quot;Hardware River&quot; (3 Stars), then read this, and follow it up with  &quot;Keeneland.&quot;<br />Then start sending letters to the University of  Wyoming, imploring Alyson to write faster next time.	2000-04-28
US	49629134	RSMQL32CI48P2	0684855038	561753247	Keeneland : A Novel	Books	4	6	8	N	N	RACING FORWARD	In Kerry Connelly, Alyson Hagy has given us a protagonist who grabs our emotions and twist them around like that old friend who we want to hug and give support to while simultaneously feeling like slapping them around a little for their decision making process.<br />Kerry is a skilled exercise  rider who runs from her hopped up, owner-trainer husband, Eric, and his  loan sharks in New York.  She heads back to Keeneland, the Kentucky race  track she got her start at.  She thinks that if she can get away from his  troubles that she will be able to get her own life back in order and maybe  even dig up enough money to get the loan sharks cooled down and guarantee  the safety of her prize mare, unsquall.<br />What Kerry has forgotten is her  own ability to find trouble.  With her quick tongue, she find trouble in  working relationships, sexual relationships and rivalries with ease.  She  gets involved in poker games, entangled with a thieving groomsman, and a  greatly detailed mugging.<br />What Kerry hasn't forgotten is perseverance.   No matter what good or bad comes her way, she continues to go on and on in  her efforts to free Sunsquall from potential damage, and to get for herself  nothing more than the right to ride and earn her keep;  to sweat in the  saddle.<br />As in her earlier short story collections &quot;Madonna on her  back,&quot; and &quot;Hardware River,&quot; Hagy has a smooth prose.  In  some of her earlier works her narratives ran the stories, and not the  characters and their actions, and the same occurs in small amounts here,  but not nearly enough to harm this read.<br />Complex or simple, it doesn't  matter;  Hagy has a mastery of getting into the characters of normal,  everyday people.  There are not enough writers who are chronicling ordinary  people, exploring their lives, and offering them to readers in ways that  provoke our interest.  Add Alyson hagy to that list.	2000-04-26
