US	49629038	RX4IHGS3BVLU0	067102423X	85988614	Bag of Bones	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One of King's Best	I have been a fan of King for only about five years, so I don't consider myself TOTALLY biased when I write reviews for his books. Still, despite this, I have read twenty-five King novels, including the amazing &quot;On Writing&quot;--one of my personal favorites. And though I wasn't a reader when &quot;Carrie&quot; was originally published, I have seen some of King's best, and some of his worst. &quot;Bag of Bones&quot; ranks near the top. <br />There is an incredible amount of maturity in this novel, which made &quot;From A Buick 8&quot; disappointing, in a way. In &quot;Bag of Bones&quot;, King tells a truly frightful ghost story, interwoven with a love-story that never even begins to border on cheesy. He relies on few--if any--cliches when it comes to Mike Noonan's flowering relationship with Mattie Devore, making it all the more realistic. It seems as though King enjoys writing simple, in-your-face horror, but every now and again he wows us with one hell of a deep, meaningful novel such as &quot;Bag of Bones.&quot; (Only &quot;The Green Mile&quot; and &quot;Hearts in Atlantis&quot; seem to compare.) <br />Before sitting down to read this novel, &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot; was my undisputed favorite when it came to the King of Horror. But now I'm not so sure. If people say that King has lost his touch, that the magic is gone, I need not say anything--I just point them in the direction of this book. Any new fan of King, past fan of King, present fan of King will enjoy this...even his most critical readers will find flaws difficult. <br />Rating this lower than five stars just wouldn't be right. In fact, I don't know how many other books I've ever given such a generous rating...maybe two or three. Along with this book, I recommend those I've previously mentioned, along with &quot;The Stand&quot; and &quot;The Shining&quot;--yeah, the latter may have been a great horror MOVIE, but wait until you read the book. They just don't compare.	2003-08-01
US	49629038	R2PZ9L83REMV25	043935806X	667539744	Harry Potter and the Order of the Phoenix (Book 5)	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Wait Until the Hype Dies	I'm giving this four stars, yes, but if you would have asked me a month ago, I would given it at least five...maybe six, going so far as to dispute Amazon's rating scale. But we all know that hinde sight is 20-20, and I realize that \\"The Order of the Phoenix\\", while a decent novel, is nothing special. I've never thought of Rowling as a great writer, especially in the fantasy genre. After reading \\"The Lord of the Rings\\" three times, nothing else seems to compare, and she's a sub-par writer with an amazing story to tell, even if much of it IS borrowed from Tolkien. (Hey, all us writers do that every now and again.) The fact of the matter is that \\"The Order of the Phoenix\\" gave us too little, too late...even if it offers us nearly 900 pages of material. <br />As a novelist myself, my first complaint is with the editors. While I'm sure they would not want to touch this \\"masterpiece--fearful, maybe, that Rowling would go elsewhere with the final two books--it needed some trimming. Words are reused constantly (the word 'crimson' comes to mind), and there are scenes and conversations that just aren't necessary, plain and simple. But despite these minor flaws, the book will generally be read by children who really don't care about grammar and what-not, and adults who are too busy wanting to find out more about the book to care about these things.<br />So, with that out of the way, it's time to approach the story: I wasn't impressed, not really, anyway. I expected a war. I expected Voldemort to be present. Instead I found the main villian to be the new DADA teacher, who, I must say, was an extraordinarily well-written character. Still, she would have been better off in book two...or three...or any other before five. Three years ago readers were left wondering what would come of Hogwarts and its students now that Voldemort had returned. We learn in book five that nothing happens. In fact, I sometimes forgot that he DID return. <br />Despite this, I found some of the scenes enjoyable, and I especially liked to see a raw Harry...no more boy wonder here. He has become a teenager, and it's about time he begin to show a little anger, or rage, or whatever you want to call it. I really don't want to go on much longer with this--I could surpass Rowling's word count if I keep up this rambling much longer. But the fact of the matter is simple: this book, while not superior to book four, in my opinion, is still an acceptable edition to the Harry Potter series. Yeah, this is the kind of book everybody would want to write, adding what they wanted, taking away what they didn't like, but we can't do that...not yet, anyway. <br />A decent novel, but a good Harry Potter book. Fortunately it was just good enough to beat the hype surrounding it. Maybe George Lucas should have thought of that before he decided to make three prequels to \\"Star Wars.\\" (I honestly expected this book to fail just as Lucas's \\"The Phantom Menace\\" did.) <br />For us Harry Potter fans, we pretty much get what we want. And if you were disappointed--or even slightly upset, as I was--she still has two more shots to make up what she lost in book five.	2003-08-01
US	49629038	R14PTF2XBT1ZGN	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	3	1	4	N	N	A Decent Novel	A fellow Amazon reviewer said that we've seen better with 'Fight Club'...and I tend to agree. I usually don't like to compare books by the same author, and as a Stephen King addict, I've learned that a novel like 'The Stand' really can't be compared to something like 'The Green Mile'; they're just too different. With Palahniuk, however, I couldn't help but envision Ed Norton saying some of the things that Tender Branson is supposed to be saying. The styles are identical, the plot is rather similar, if you really look at it, and each has its narrator, its alter-ego (Adam Branson being the alter-ego), and the lead female character. 'Survivor', I think, is basically a cheap sequel to 'Fight Club', an extraordinary novel in itself. <br />The problem with 'Survivor' lies in the fact that it seems to rely too much on sounding like 'Fight Club'. Tender is not the narrator from his first novel, Adam is no Tyler Durden, and Marla is nowhere to be found. I read the first chapter at Barnes and Noble and thought it sounded amazing...even better than 'Fight Club', but I was, in a way, a bit disappointed. No, it's not a terrible book, but it's not original. 'Fight Club' was one of the smartest, freshest novels I've ever read, and I've expected more of the same quality from Palahniuk. Unfortunately 'Survivor' isn't all that it's cracked up to be. <br />Don't take me wrong. It sounds like I loathed this book. I didn't. In fact, I enjoyed it enough that I read it in just a few short hours...but I read 'Fight Club' in about ninety minutes. I see real talent in Palahniuk, and I look forward to future works by this up-and-coming author, but I can't totally recommend this novel after reading something superior, yet similar. So, if you've already read 'Fight Club', my advice is to find it at a library; if you've just happened to stumble onto this, it's a good read, and will only make you all the more thrilled when you meet Tyler Durden and friends.	2003-07-22
US	49629038	R2UE8LJPMAHGYB	0451160525	511631376	The Gunslinger (Dark Tower)	Books	3	0	2	N	N	A Decent King Novel	Stephen King, to me, is not the greatest author I have ever read but is by far my favorite. In all I have read nearly thirty of his books and was very disappointed to hear of his recent retirement plans, though I knew of rumors for some time. Hearing that his final three books--after From A Buick 8, which I just received as a birthday present--were to be the final chapters of the Dark Tower series, I decided to begin reading them considering I had passed them over in the past.<br />There are some good things about The Gunslinger. For instance, it's a short, quick read. At only three hundred pages it's a rather speedy read, though not his best. What I love about King is his characterization and snappy dialogue. Here we receive none of that. Yes, I'm aware that the gunslinger himself is supposed to be a shady character and wasn't annoyed by that, but there is little information on the other characters. Added to that, we have short, choppy scenes and dialogue. The only memorable part of the book to me is when he felled Tull in its entirety.<br />I'll finish reading the Dark Tower series--or at least the other three that have been published to date--but stick by my decision to call 'Salem's Lot his greatest work. (Along with the Dark Tower series I have saved The Stand and will be reading that shortly.) To fantasy lovers like myself, it is not the best work of fiction, but enjoyable...a good read for traveling, I'd say.	2002-10-23
US	49629038	R31F2AXDH5IZLS	0345428811	938075605	Star Wars Episode II: Attack of the Clones	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Good Preview	I read 'Attack of the Clones' in two days. It was a quick read, but it did drag in some places. If it weren't for the movie being released next week, it would've taken me much longer. I felt as though the dialogue scenes were too long, and the action too spaced until the end. I definitely enjoyed watching Anakin's transition from an innocent boy to an angry young man, though he hasn't reached his Vader-ish point yet. <br />I am not a fan of R.A. Salvatore, nor do I enjoy his writing style. 'Attack of the Clones' was a nice, quick read, with solid action towards the end, but I don't recommend it for anyone not planning to see the movie anytime soon.	2002-05-11
US	49629038	R31QCD5HGW9Q7M	0345342968	383457570	Fahrenheit 451	Books	2	4	8	N	N	451 For a Different Reason	Now, don't get me wrong: I thought 'Fahrenheit 451' was a pretty good book, but I was very unimpressed by the number of mistakes found in the 165 pages. The name Montag was spelled wrong on several occasions, there are words oftentimes missing from dialogue--or the wrong ones all together--and quotes either missing or in the wrong places, making it oftentimes confusing to read. Editing was either skipped altogether or done by a blind man...one of the two.<br />Overall, though, 'Fahrenheit 451' is an average book. I did not feel connected with any of the characters, and could've cared less what happened to Montag. Clarisse disappeared too early without much reason as to why--I assumed her being hit by a car was false, but apparently not--and the future looks bland to me. Luckily, though, I won't be around to see it.<br />(Also, the &quot;war&quot; seemed tacked on without any real reason as to its existence in the story, save for maybe wiping out the human race so we could start over.) <br />Not a great book. I'm hoping Bradbury has written by stories than this apparent &quot;classic&quot;.	2002-04-21
US	49629038	R3G0RLCJLCSXK4	0345339703	669379389	The Fellowship of the Ring (The Lord of the Rings, Part 1)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A Whole Different World	When J.R.R. Tolkien sat down to write these books, I doubt that he knew how great they really would be. When reading The Lord of the Rings, you are forced to escape into Middle-Earth for however long you wish to stay there. Unlike other fantasy tales that just don't seem real, this is oftentimes creepy in how it makes you forget where you are. It's almost as if you are the tenth member of the Company.<br />I won't go into any detail about the plot, considering the success of tbe book and the recent movie, it's already a given. But I felt that I needed to say just this one thing:<br />Our world is frightening, stressful and sometimes a bore. However, with Tolkien, you forget where you are and are part of something else, something amazing. 'The Lord of the Rings' is probably the best fiction story of all time. Though not my favorite book, I now understand why it is loved worldwide and why the tale of Bilbo and Frodo Baggins will never die.<br />A rare gem amongst oftentimes disappointing works.	2002-01-09
US	49629038	R23KNS7T78J7GB	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	4.5 Stars for this one	In my opinion, &quot;The Chamber of Secrets&quot; was by far the better of the first three books, and when I began reading &quot;The Goblet of Fire,&quot; I thought that being more than 700 pages was more of a detriment than an advantage. However, as surprising as it truly is, this book reads faster than the first, though it it more than two and a half times longer.<br />The plot is mysterious, adventrous and fun, and the conclusion is downright frightening. Also, the characters are much older in this one, and have more abilities than in the previous three, which makes it all the more interesting.<br />I'll definitely be in line to buy part five opening day, and hope it lives up to this one, though I do think that that's close to impossible. &quot;Harry Potter and the Goblet of Fire&quot; is the most rewarding of the four by far, and I'll be the first to admit that I've been pulled into the phenomenon of Harry Potter after years of refusing to read these books.	2001-12-08
US	49629038	R3LURMNQ3G1USC	0439136350	667539744	Harry Potter And The Prisoner Of Azkaban	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Disappointed	I read the first two Harry Potter books, and I must say that I'm disappointed with the third. I know that this seems to be the most popular--especially with those I know--but I didn't enjoy this one as much. I gave the first two four stars each, so I couldn't give this one four, because in my opinion, it wasn't as good. The plot wasn't as strong and the ending was more of a let-down than the first two. The Chamber of Secrets is still my favorite, but I'm working on the fourth now, and so far it's the best yet. Harry Potter and the Prisoner of Azkaban is a good book, yes, but in my opinion, not quite up to the level of imagination and brilliance of the first two. A good read, though. Can't wait for the fifth.	2001-11-27
US	49629038	R3HFJZKM29J0P4	0439064864	667539744	Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Better than the first	I just finished &quot;Harry Potter and the Chamber of Secrets&quot;, only a day and a half after starting it. In five days, I've read the first two books, and in my opinion, this is by far better than the first.<br />Starting with the good: The plot is darker, much more of a horror than an adventure, and a lot like something Stephen King might write--my favorite author. Second, the characters are now more interesting due to their increasing knowledge of magic, which makes the plot and the story a little more action-packed. Also, I liked the surprise ending--just like the first--and just as I did in the first book, I didn't figure it out until it actually happened.<br />The Bad: There aren't too many things wrong with this book. It's about thirty pages longer than the first, which isn't bad, and is actually better for the story. However, the ending is dragged out, and it could've come to a close a little sooner. Another thing would be the beginning, where a lot is reviewed from the first book. You could actually pick this one up and understand it having no prior knowledge as to what happened in Book 1 (although I do recommend it.) If the author would've just started where she left off, assuming that they were to be read in order without a review, I--and probably many others--would've appreciated it.<br />Other than that, I have no other complaints. This is, in fact, the better of the first two. I just started reading the third, and I hear it's the best of the first four, but I'm not jumping to any conclusions considering I heard the second was boring and dull.	2001-10-17
US	49629038	R2EMLH8R2ARLHP	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	21	24	N	N	Brings back memories	I must say that I didn't want to read this book. I'm sixteen years old and a huge fan of Stephen King, and the thought of reading a children's book--whether Mr. King recommended it or not, which he did--was just dreadful. However, knowing that in a month the movie would be coming out, (and my girlfriend wanting to go to it very badly), I decided to read it so I'd know what was going on so I might enjoy the film...<br />However, as I started reading, I found myself much more interested than I expected. This book was like The Lord of the Rings and all the other childhood fairy tales I've read throughout my life, all thrown together into one. The characters are well developed, the ideas clever, and the plot--although a lot like other fantasy books--interesting enough. At 310 pages, it's a quick read, (I read it in 3 days), and moves along at a great pace. In my opinion, the last two chapters were by far the scariest, more action-packed and really made me want to keep reading...in the end, I gave this book 4 out of 5 stars, expecting to rate it a 2 at best.<br />My final thought: If you think this is a book for kids, think again. It's a great story that's truly worth reading...I'll be borrowing the second book tomorrow so I can see what happens next. Thanx for reading.	2001-10-10
US	49629038	R3UVDI35VKGXFA	0451166582	487763765	The Eyes of the Dragon	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A tale only King could tell	Stephen King, by far the greatest horror author of our time, maybe ever, steps into the middle ages for this novel. I'm not sure when this takes place, or when the storyteller is writing this from, because it obviously takes place hundres of years ago, but seems to be written just a few years ago, because several references to modern things. If you're reading a review for this book, you probably already know the basic plot, so I'll get to my likes and dislikes.<br />First off, I liked the plot. The characters were solid--as King always has--and likeable...of course, you could hate some of them too, especially Flagg. The style in which it was written makes it seem like King went back to the 19th century to write the novel, using an older form of storytelling not around much anymore. It was suspenseful, well written, and for those of you that don't want the blood, gore and intense graphic language, this is the King novel for you! <br />However, some may find this book boring. It doesn't deliver a fast-paced slasher plot where characters are being killed left and right. Actually, from what I remember, there are only three deaths in this entire book. One in the beginning, one in the middle, and one at the very end. It uses the plot and our curiosity to keep us reading, much like what he did with &quot;The Green Mile&quot;, a much better book, yes, but I use this only as an example. <br />&quot;The Eyes of the Dragon&quot; is a great tale of fantasy that only Stephen King could come up with. I only wish he would write books like this more often, and I can only dream of a sequel (which, of course, will never be written.) So all in all, read this book, and escape back to your childhood. Thanx for reading my review. Now go get this book.	2001-08-13
US	49629038	R2DR9WTYNXSU76	0316693286	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great Book	I just recently saw Along Came a Spider at the theatre, and decided to pick up a James Patterson novel just because I liked the movie so much. Being a long-time Stephen King fan, the thriller that I encountered--not to mention half the book being written in 1st person--was very interesting. I loved the short chapters. I could read nearly a hundred pages in one sitting, without realizing it. And at 420 pages long, the book soared by quickly. Alex Cross had so much depth to him, he felt like a real person. As did Shafer, though he was frightening. I definitely recommend this book to anybody looking for a quick, interesting read. The ending was very good, and made me want to keep reading, but there was nothing left to read. I'm definitely going to pick up another Patterson novel as I soon as I can. 'Pop Goes the Weasal' is one great book, but it has one of the lower ratings...do I dare say that there might be a better Patterson novel out there?	2001-06-17
US	49629038	R14C101RMOXK8W	0743211383	241269653	Dreamcatcher	Books	3	6	7	N	N	Tough book to rate	I guess my review is somewhat biased just because I'm a huge Stephen King fan. But does that really matter anymore? There are too many of us out there, and practically everybody who picks up a Stephen King novel is a die-hard fan. <br />I awaited the release of 'Dreamcatcher' for several months, and got the last copy at the store the day it was released..lucky me. Immediately I began reading it, only to find myself confused. The first 200 pages or so are incredibly hard to get through. I stopped around Easter because I received 'The Shining' as a present, and read that in under two days. Deciding to get back to 'Dreamcatcher', I hit the slowness again. <br />Once I got passed the first third of the book, however, I became incredibly interested. Maybe it was because I found myself caring much more about Henry, Owen and Jonesy. There really was no main bad guy...Mr. Gray, I guess, but Kurtz, too, and I found myself turning the pages faster than ever as the chase began. That, in my opinion, was the best part of the book. <br />Overall, 'Dreamcatcher' was a little long, and the first 200 pages could've been trimmed to be a little more interesting. Duddits's role in the book wasn't as shocking as I hoped it would be, but I've come to realize that Stephen King novels have never had the most shocking endings...they normally come to a decent close, but I have yet to say, &quot;Wow, I didn't expect that.&quot; This book deserves no more than 3 stars, no less either. If you're a fan and have read past works by King, go ahead and read this one...but if you're just starting off, and you want to get to know some of his better books, start with 'The Shining', 'Salem's Lot' or 'The Green Mile'...thanx for reading my review.	2001-05-16
US	49629038	R3HTSFCBW9THPV	0385121679	966329377	The Shining	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A tough choice	I am a big Stephen King fan, and I read most of his work. Of everything I have read such far, I enjoyed &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot; the best, but had a tough decision deciding whether or not &quot;The Shining&quot; was better...in the end, &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot; received five stars, and &quot;The Shining&quot; four...here's why:<br />I read &quot;The Shining&quot; in three days. It was a quick read for me, mainly because I got into the story and it never let up. I did the same with &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot;, but I found that throughout this book, it got slightly annoying when paragraphs were suddenly broken with thoughts, then continued...I had to go back to remember what they were talking about before the break occurred. This, for me, slowed the pace, but I eventually didn't mind as the book went on. <br />&quot;The Shining&quot; was filled with believable characters that I could get to know. Jack really seemed like an alcoholic when he got angry, but you could also the good side to him...I wasn't sure whether I wanted to hate him or like him. That caused a lot of conflict that I enjoyed. As for Wendy and Danny, I felt connected with him. Though I am 15 years old, I can remember being five, thinking things like, &quot;It's not a sweet, it's a suite.&quot; <br />King wrote this book beautifully, and I can see why it is such a classic. This is easily one of the best books I have ever read, and I will never forget it...but maybe being so popular has taken away from it. Before even starting, I knew that REDRUM was MURDER, so that took away some of the shock when it was finally revealed. <br />&quot;The Shining&quot; is truly a great book that you must read. I loved it, and will eventually reread it one day...I can't say enough about it. But there were only a few things that took away from it...I already knew a lot about it before I started, whereas with other books, it was a shock. If you liked &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot;, you will love &quot;The Shining&quot;. Personally,I don't feel the ending was a letdown...I enjoyed it and felt satisfied. Read this book. That's all I can say!!! (It's the best Easter present I've ever gotten!)	2001-04-17
US	49629038	RME9D3VKMGA3N	0941188108	184096270	Film Directing Shot by Shot: Visualizing from Concept to Screen (Michael Wiese Productions)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Very useful	This book has mostly everything for the aspiring--and perhaps experienced--director. It is filled with storyboards from classic films, along with explanations for your own. There are many ways showing you how to film one scene with several different cameras from different angles. There are definitions for certain view-points and everything else needed for someone who is planning a film. What else can I say, really? Basically, there is no book on film making out there that compares to this. It is definitely the best in this category...don't consider anything else.	2001-03-23
US	49629038	R16UZIOHU1ZX2Y	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Great book spoiled by weak ending	While thinking of how many stars to give this book, I decided on five. So I went back and finished the rest of the book and then came back, giving this book only four stars. <br />&quot;Red Dragon&quot; is the first book I have read by Thomas Harris. I am normally a very big Stephen King fan, but I found this book quite enjoyable nonetheless. However, like I have seen in so many books before, this had the chance of being an amazing novel, but was spoiled by a disappointing ending. <br />To begin, I would like to say that I do not enjoy Thomas Harris' style of writing when he uses choppy sentences and switches between the first and third person narrative. However, I soon got over that. It did not take away from the book.<br />Plot: 9/10--I found Francis Dolarhyde to be an extremely strange and frightening character, yet we could relate to his story. You could sense the tension between the characters as they tried to hunt him down. <br />Action: 8/10--This book is more of a crime drama. It is filled with more &quot;Law and Order&quot;-like searching than action and violence. <br />Characters: 9/10--Dolarhyde was extremely well-done, but Will Graham was not developed enough. He seemed like a jerk at some points despite his attempts to stop &quot;The Dragon&quot;. <br />Overall: 8.5/10--This book should be at least a 9.5, but the ending was not enjoyable for me. It was an oustanding book, yes, and I will continue to read work by this author, but it seemed rushed and unoriginal. I think Mr. Harris could have come up with a better way (WARNING: SPOILER--DO NOT READ ON IF YOU WANT TO BE IN SURPRISE!) for &quot;The Dragon&quot; to die. It was like most horror movies today, and non suspenseful like the rest of the book. Not only did Dolarhyde suddenly lose his strength and cunning brilliance, he was killed too easily. <br />&quot;Red Dragon&quot;, in conclusion, is a great piece of fiction that I cannot say enough about, but beware, the ending may be slightly disappointing to some.	2001-03-17
US	49629038	R3728S2Y6Q8UGR	0671041789	867268465	The Green Mile	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One of King's Best	This book isn't the most exciting novel Stephen King has ever written, but it is by far the most descriptive. As a fan of his work, I can tell that he has now matured into a different writer. His descriptions are frighteneing realistic, and I couldn't help feeling sorry for John Coffey--not to mention poor Del thanks to Percy. I liked how the book switched between him being a prison guard and him writing from the future, though I was too wrapped up in the story at the prison to care much about his new-found love in the nursing home.<br />If you've never been a Stephen King fan, throw all of that out the window. This isn't a slasher like 'The Shining' or 'It'. This is a book that is worthy enough to be made into one of the most famous films in Hollywood history. Although the book is better, that has to tell you something about King. <br />I loved this book enough to want to re-read it, and I will when I finish 'Firestarter'. I saw nothing really wrong with this book, other than the fact that it did move slow during some parts. But other than that, the characters are so realistic. You want to save John Coffey, help Paul and strangle Percy. That makes it all too real for me. 10 stars if I could.	2001-02-27
US	49629038	R2PVNFGBAM8E6L	0451197968	321732450	The Running Man	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Don't think of the movie!	I read several Stephen King books before attempting this one. No, it wasn't long like 'The Stand' or 'Bag of Bones', and in fact, it is one of his shorter books, just over 300 pages long. But I saw the movie, and, well, I hated it. I thought it was terrible, really, and somehow I thought the book might be the same. I am aware that books are nearly always better, but come on! How could a movie go so astray from the book? It seemed to happen here. <br />First, the book is broken into 100 chapters, and at 300 pages for the book, each chapter is only about 3 pages long. I think the longest is 5, which means you breeze straight through it in less than a day if you try. The action is non-stop, the plot is great, and you're hoping that Ben Richards survives when you close it again. However, with such a great plot and ideas, this book should have been longer. LONGER?! Yes, I know, I never thought I would want a Stephen King book to be longer, but this one should have...I just hated to see it end. <br />Since reading it, I have borrowed the book to a few friends, and they all love it, too. (Much for the same reasons!) There are no monsters or spirits in this book, but a man fighting for survival in the near future. And with CBS's 'Survivor' and ABC's 'The Mole' now airing on TV, it looks like the world may soon reach 'The Running Man'. That's what makes this book so scary; it's just too real for words. So if you're looking for a quick read--like for a roadtrip or for a plane flight--or just for your own enjoyment, grab this one. But if you're looking for something to get completely involved with for the next 3 months, think about a different title. You'll love the characters, but it might not be long enough for some people.	2001-02-15
US	49629038	R3MS0Z922MTC2F	0452277752	321732450	The Bachman Books: Four Early Novels by Richard Bachman, author of The Regulators	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Almost 5 stars, but.......	Before even taking this book out from the library, I had already read both 'The Long Walk' and 'The Running Man', and both are in my collection. I enjoyed these two novels, and in fact, they are high on my list of King's best books. ('Salem's Lot being the best.) However, I got this book for 'Rage' and 'Roadwork', and was both disappointed and satisfied. Here's why:<br />I started with 'Rage' because it was the first in the book and I hadn't alredy read it. It started off all right, but something about Charlie--the main character who is insane--didn't seem right. I don't believe after attacking another student, they would allow him to stay at school, but that's what you get. The novel is short and has equally small chapters, but it seemed too strange somehow. I finished it but did not enjoy it very much. (The fact that he was killing in cold blood for no reason seemed odd for a King story. I am used to some strange ability or gift, not this. But, oh well.) <br />I moved on to 'Roadwork'. I read it, and unlike other King books, the story took too long to develope. I continued on, however, and enjoyed the ending. Well, it could have been better, but it wasn't bad. So here's my opinion: if you're looking to buy this, make sure you enjoy at least 'Rage' or 'Roadwork' first. If you're still not sure, just buy 'Running Man' and 'Walk' separately. You'll save some money and be happier than having two other books you'll never read. My opinion is this: it got four stars because of the middle two novels...they are excellent and could only be the work of the one and only Stephen King.	2001-01-17
US	49629038	RM9B79J5WVOI4	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Too much talking, not enough fighting	Star Wars became famous for its tremendously good special effects and great action sequences. Also, having some of the most interesting characters of any film had something to do with its success. However, Rogue Planet pays little attention to any of this and tries to form its own, new path. Well guess what? It didn't work too great.<br />The plot is weaker than other books, but it had the potential to work. Basically, Anakin and Obi-Wan travel to a remote planet because of its difficulties while another bad guy tries to take that planet over. (I read it in May so this may not be quite as accurate as it should be.) <br />In this book, I saw several things that I liked: first, we are introduced to Tarkin who is working on building a ship capable of destroying a planet. (Did anybody say Death Star?! However, this goes nowhere.) Also, Mace Windu is in the book, but unfortunately, only for about two pages. Also, I think the book was well written. It is not confusing and has nice description of the planet. <br />Now some of the things I didn't like. First, the end battle is short and rushed. Expecting the slow book to move into a climatic ending, (like the 6th Sense), I was disappointed. It is weak and is not that good. It is one of those endings where you feel cheated and expect something better to happen. Don't get your hopes up. Also, Obi-Wan barely ever uses his lightsaber because there really is no need due to the lack of enemies. <br />Well, that's all I have to say about this book. I should have given it two stars, but since this is Star Wars, it earns three just because. For those of you who truly loved this book, maybe you're the type that enjoys the slower moving books. Personally, I like the action. <br />If you're looking for something exciting, try reading The Phantom Menace. The book is good despite the fact that many did not like the movie. Also, Darktide and Darktide II by Michael A. Stackpole are good. These have great action sequences with blasters, lightsabers and tremendous space battles. Also, these involve classic characters such as Han, Luke, Leai and their kids, Jacen and Jaina, the lesser known members of the clan.	2001-01-15
US	49629038	R1O62RU1WGUJS6	067103975X	165977133	Salem's Lot	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Darkness was never so frightening	&quot;Is that book scary?&quot; somebody once asked me while I was reading Stephen King's 'Desperation'. I looked over at him and shook my head. I have never found a book that was supposed to be horror actually scary. Movies, yes, because they pop out at you. But not books...they are somewhat predictable. However, 'salem's Lot changed all that for me. <br />I am a big fan of Stephen King. I have read most of his books and, to this date, have not found any scary at all. Interesting, of course, that's why I read them, but not frightening. But there was something about this book that actually made me a little scared at points. It was the &quot;What if?&quot; question. <br />What if there were vampires? What if this really did happen? What if, what if, what if?! <br />The story takes place in a New England town named Jerusulam's Lot, but is nicknamed 'salem's Lot by its citizens. It is a small town, and if something happens to one person, everybody knows by noontime that day, even earlier. When Ben Mears, a former resident, reappears to write a book based on the Marsten House, he finds things going wrong. The house, which was inhabited by a man that killed his wife then hung himself, is now occupied for the first time since the incident. But from the point he arrives, tragedy strikes. People, a lot of people, become sick and die very suddenly...some of the bodies are even stolen after awhile. When Matt Burke, an English teacher and a friend of Ben, decides this is the work of vampires, the two--along with Susan Nortan, Ben's &quot;girlfriend&quot;--go out to discover the truth. <br />The book may seem a little weak because of not being amazingly popular like 'The Shining', but don't be persuaded to read something else. This--in my opinion--is the best book he has ever written. It is filled with suspense, twists in the plot, and above all, is actually scary at times! When you imagine some of the things being described, you actually think about this happening. <br />I gave this five stars because it is very diserving of them all. However, despite the speed of the book--very fast--, and the excellent story-telling by King, there are just way too many characters. You are introduced to at least twenty or twenty-five names in the novel, and at times, you find yourself going, &quot;Who is this again?&quot; But that isn't bad enough to subtract a whole star. And besides, most of these names have very little to do with the story, so you can forget them quickly. (Maybe that is why I didn't remember.) <br />So if you're looking for a great Stephen King book, pick up this one. It is filled with suspense and overall horror, and is a very quick read. I hope this was helpful to you all, and one more thing: the ending is great.	2001-01-02
US	49629038	R14FOAU3L6ZPXJ	0451196716	882393531	The Long Walk	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Not his best, but pretty good	I've read a lot of Stephen King before reading &quot;The Long Walk&quot;, and I can't say that this is his best work...because it's not. However, this is far from his worst...in fact, I don't think he's ever written anything bad. But some of his books are better than others.<br />&quot;The Long Walk&quot; takes place in Maine as usual. (If you're a King fan, this shouldn't be surprising.) One hundred walkers are chosen at random to particapate in the Long Walk...one of them is Ray Garraty, a sixteen year old from Maine, and is nicknamed 'Maine's Own'. He must outwalk all other ninety nine walkers to win the Prize: anything he wants. However, there are a few catches. If you slow down, you get a warning. If you stop, you get a warning. If you sit down, you get a warning. See a pattern forming? You should. If you collect three warnings, the next results in death...you're shot, plain and simple. <br />Throughout the walk, Garraty meets many friends, which makes the walk harder considering they're all going to die in the end...except for one, but the odds that one of the &quot;Musketeers&quot; are very slim.<br />I enjoyed this book more than others that I have read. It moves slower than &quot;The Running Man&quot;, but faster than most others. There isn't a lot of action, however, and the book mainly focuses on the fear and the pain the walkers go through. I recommend this book if you're a dedicated King reader, but not if you're just starting off. If you have yet to open one of his novels, you might want to start with &quot;The Running Man&quot; or &quot;'Salem's Lot&quot;, but these are just suggestions. Well, anyway, enjoy this one...it's quick and fun to read, not some of the massive dictionary-like novels that take months to read!	2000-11-24
US	49629038	RW6AFYNGREPC0	0671042858	321732450	The Girl Who Loved Tom Gordon	Books	3	0	1	N	N	If only I would've picked something else..........	Let me say this before I begin my review of this book. (Actually there are two things I'm going to say.)<br />(1) It has been a few months since I've read this, so I may not remember it all.<br />(2) It was the first Stephen King novel I have read.<br />Okay, if you read that, you should be set for this particular review. And in that case, I'll start from the bottom and work my way up: if you didn't skip it, you found out that this was the first Stephen King book I've read. (However, since that time I've read many more....luckily.) This isn't the best he's ever done; I was expecting that, just something to keep me reading his work. The book got annoying at times. From what I remember, he mentioned bugs around her head at least 50 times...that got me a little annoyed at times. Plus, with one character wandering around the woods, there isn't much to talk to...you'll soon find that trees listen, but are quite quiet. So Trisha doesn't do a whole lot of talking, just walking...and falling.<br />The book takes place in Maine, as most would expect. Considering he lives in Maine, it's proper for him to write about it. I don't mind a bit. But getting back to the point, a young girl, Trisha, wanders off in the woods while on a hike with her brother and mother. They're arguing abot something. (I think their father(?)) So instead of listening, she falls behind, but soon finds them out of sight. When she tries to cut through an unmarked path, she finds herself lost and alone...for the rest of the book, pretty much.<br />While on her adventure she'd rather not be on, she listens to her radio, mainly the Boston Red Sox to hear them talk about her favorite player, Tom Gordon. She pretends that he is with her for protection, and basically he is the only thing she talks to throughout the book. I was surprised when the villian arrived...I just assumed it was the forest, but there was a spirit that showed up a bit late. (Maybe it got lost too.) It was described as having a head of a beehive. However, with its late arrival, I wasn't too impressed.<br />I don't know what to really say about this book. Normally I find writing reviews incredibly easy, but this seems kind of tough. There isn't a whole lot to write...honestly. The book pretty slow, unlike some of his other books. I got bored of her always being in the woods, and wished that she would reach some sort of civilization before I starting going a little crazy with her. But she didn't...at least it was a short book. Personally I think the best part was when she bit off the head of a live fish, and reading that part made me realize that King was a pretty good writer despite this quite boring piece of work.<br />This review may not be helpful for you. If I was reading it, I wouldn't get much out of it other than the guy didn't like the book. That's what I'm stating...I didn't enjoy it. It was boring and slow, and I tended to let my mind wander off. However, I read another book of his, loved it, then read another...I now find myself thinking, &quot;Hey, everybody isn't perfect! Even Spielberg made Nineteen Forty-One!&quot;<br />If thinking that you never heard of that movie, don't feel embarrassed. It wasn't good despite hits like Saving Private Ryan and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, not to mention many others. So even if King has a bad day, give him some slack. He's still a great writer!<br />(However, I suggest you read &quot;The Running Man&quot;, &quot;The Long Walk&quot;, &quot;The Green Mile&quot;, and most everything else.)ehive. However, with its late arrival, I wasn't too impressed. <br />I don't know what to really say about this book. Normally I find writing reviews incredibly easy, but this seems kind of tough. There isn't a whole lot to write...honestly. The book pretty slow, unlike some of his other books. I got bored of her always being in the woods, and wished that she would reach some sort of civilization before I starting going a little crazy with her. But she didn't...at least it was a short book. Personally I think the best part was when she bit off the head of a live fish, and reading that part made me realize that King was a pretty good writer despite this quite boring piece of work. <br />This review may not be helpful for you. If I was reading it, I wouldn't get much out of it other than the guy didn't like the book. That's what I'm stating...I didn't enjoy it. It was boring and slow, and I tended to let my mind wander off. However, I read another book of his, loved it, then read another...I now find myself thinking, &quot;Hey, everybody isn't perfect! Even Spielberg made Nineteen Forty-One!&quot;<br />If thinking that you never heard of that movie, don't feel embarrassed. It wasn't good despite hits like Saving Private Ryan and Close Encounters of the Third Kind, not to mention many others. So even if King has a bad day, give him some slack. He's still a great writer!<br />(However, I suggest you read &quot;The Running Man&quot;, &quot;The Long Walk&quot;, &quot;The Green Mile&quot;, and most everything else.)	2000-11-13
US	49629038	RLWGATV2DKMBS	0345428544	573865480	Dark Tide I: Onslaught (Star Wars: The New Jedi Order, Book 2)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Great Book: Better than Rogue Planet	Rogue Planet had an excellent idea: tell what happened between Episode 1 and 2. Unfortunately, nothing very exciting happened for Obi-Wan and his young Padawan. There was very little action and nothing that was very  interesting.<br />But this isn't a review for Greg Bear's novel, it's not even  for something he wrote. It's for Dark Tide: Onslaught, an excellent book.  <br />The book begins with action, a lot more than what was in Rogue Planet  from cover to cover. I don't know about you, but I like an exciting book to  read, and this gives it to you. And unlike Rogue Planet where the  characters are mainly Obi-Wan and Anakin, with a brief appearance by Mace  Windu for about three pages, Onslaught presents Luke Skywalker, Princess  Leai, Han Solo, Mara Jade, Han's kids, and other well known characters from  the Star Wars universe. <br />It takes place far after Return of the Jedi, a  time where the New Republic is still fragile and could easily be broken.  The Yuuzhan Vong, a threat in Vector Prime, have disappeared, for now, but  are still very dangerous. The senate on Courscant doesn't agree, and  actually puts down, Princess Leia for even trying to stop them. Instead,  the Jedi, led by Luke Skywalker himself, hands out assignments to his Jedi  in training, including Jacen Solo and his brother Anakin who still feels  responsible for Chewbacca's death in Vector Prime. <br />The book has a lot of  action and hostility, enough to make you say, &quot;I'll just read one more  chapter.&quot; When you get to the end of that one, the story is even more  intense, so you say, &quot;Okay, one more.&quot; But yet again, you get  wrapped in it until you are either stopped or realize how long you have  been reading. That makes me say, &quot;What a great book!&quot; <br />I'm not  cutting down Rogue Planet in any way. It was helpful to read between the  first and second movie, and for a Star Wars fan, that's a must. But  Onslaught, which is much cheaper due to being in paperback, provides a  better story, and is all around a better book. Take my advice and read  Onslaught. There's a sequel to it, and it's one of the best Star Wars books  I've read, possibly the best after I think about it. But after you're done,  check out Rogue Planet. Most will enjoy it, but find Onslaught better.	2000-07-18
US	49629038	R43VIQH6OB706	0345435389	753640827	Rogue Planet (Star Wars)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Where's the action?	Rogue Planet was a, well, okay book. From the looks of the first chapter, which was thrity pages long, I was expecting a lot of action throughout the story. Where did it go wrong? From then on the action was, well, lets just  say non-existent. There was none. Just talking and a lot of description  that bored me at points. <br />The plot was okay, but seemed a little  different than something from the Star Wars universe. It focuses on Obi-Wan  and the now older Anakin searching for a missing Jedi named Vergere. Pretty  weak? But wait, it gets a little better. Commander Tarkin and Raith Siener  attempt to wipe out the planet, Zonoma Sekot, which the two Jedi are on.  Tarkin sound familiar? He later creates the Death Star, which is mentioned  in the book. <br />Rogue Planet was an alright book. It had good Star Wars  like dialogue, which I could do without. I'd rather have action like in  Return of the Jedi, but it came only in the first and the last two or three  chapters. Four chapters of action? Yup, about forty pages out of the 339 in  the book. <br />If you like sci-fi and are looking for a good story....stay  far, far away. If you're a true Star Wars fan like myself, I consider you  read it. It bridges the gap between Episode 1 and 2, which makes it all  worth while.	2000-07-14
US	49629038	R3TPE3EFUEVQTP	0684811677	615560431	Steven Spielberg: A Biography	Books	5	9	10	N	N	What don't you know about him after reading this book?	Steven Spielberg: The most famous film director ever. Anybody knows the name, even small children. He's directed Hook for the younger ones, and Saving Private Ryan for those of us that are older. There is so many films  that I could list, I won't even try. But this book isn't just about his  movies. They're mentioned quite often, but the truly great thing about this  book is the detail. <br />You learn so much about his family that you could  almost be part of it. After reading this book, you could very well know  more about his great grandparents than you do about your own. You learn of  his childhood and how he made movies when he was young, to how he matured  into making great films that we all know and love. <br />It's a long book, and  now you know why. It gives you plenty of reading, and it'll keep you  interested. It's also got pictures of him working on movies like E.T. and  even him directing other thirteen year olds when he was a child. If you're  considering purchasing this book, don't wait any longer. Once you sit down  and begin reading, you won't know why you waited in the first place.	2000-07-06
US	49629038	RK3L241Y5OODS	1551802813	75577662	Writing Horror (Self-Counsel Writing)	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Does it have everything you need? No, it has more.	I've been writing for a few years now, and my goal in life is to become an author. I've written several books, none up to the standards of being published, though. I started a new book, a horror, and decided if I was  going to get published, this was my best chance to do it. I found Writing  Horror on Amazon and ordered it just days after finding it. <br />When the  book came, I read it for hours at a time, finding the information very  helpful. I sat down at my computer and began using the things I learned to  make my book more interesting and add a much more suspensful affect to it.  <br />The only problem I had with the book was that it mainly focused on  writing short stories first, but I had already worked my way up to writing  novels. Despite that, though, which wasn't a big problem, this was an  excellent book well worth the money.	2000-06-20
