US	49630612	R1JUJO5G9K1TKK	0767916883	27906002	Born Fighting: How the Scots-Irish Shaped America	Books	3	331	342	N	N	History of the Scots-Irish	Born Fighting by James Webb is the history of the Scots-Irish over the last 2000 years. A few highlights:<br /><br />1. Scotland was effectively created by the Roman Empire when Hadrian's Wall was built across Britain at the approximate location of the current border between England and Scotland. Rome controlled Britain south of the wall and the native Celtic tribes controlled the north. (Rome also effectively created the modern boundary between France and Germany when Caesar conquered Gaul but stopped at the Rhine.)<br /><br />2. After the Norman Conquest, English kings attempted repeatedly to subdue the Scots and extend their rule to all of Britain. The victories of William Wallace and Robert the Bruce maintained Scottish independence through the rein of Elizabeth I. Upon her death, the throne passed to James I of the House of Stuart who already ruled Scotland as James VI. One could almost say that Scotland thereby absorbed England, but the relative population sizes of the two countries gave England the upper hand almost from the beginning.<br /><br />3. In the meantime, the Protestant Reformation had been underway in northern Europe, leaving Scotland strongly protestant (Presbyterian), England more mildly protestant (Anglican), and Ireland still Roman Catholic. To bring Ireland into the protestant fold and increase its loyalty to the British Crown, James I established the Ulster Plantation and encouraged protestant Scots to settle in Ulster starting in about 1610. These settlers from Scotland to Ireland became the Scots-Irish (or Scotch-Irish).<br /><br />4. In the Glorious Revolution of 1688, the English Parliament deposed King James II principally because he attempted to reestablish a Catholic monarchy. The deposed king, with French (Catholic) aid landed in Ireland, rallied the Catholic Irish in southern Ireland and attacked the protestant settlers in Ulster. James was again defeated and exiled to France.<br /><br />5. Meanwhile, various Test Acts had been enacted by the English Parliament and Crown that established the Anglican Church as the official Church of England and excluded non-Anglican Protestants, primarily Presbyterians and Puritans, from public office. A particularly harsh version was enacted in 1703 and led to the heavy migration of Scots-Irish from Ulster to America throughout the 1700s. They settled primarily in the Appalachian highlands, starting in Pennsylvania and migrating southwest to Virginia, the Carolinas, Kentucky, Tennessee and beyond. In numbers, the Scots-Irish far exceed the other groups of British settlers described in David Hackett Fischer's Albion's Seed: the New England Puritans from East Anglia, the Virginia Cavaliers from the south and West of England, and the Pennsylvania Quakers from the Midlands.<br /><br />6. The Scots-Irish were characterized by poverty, family ties that extended both linearly across generations and collaterally to many degrees of cousins, strongly protestant beliefs, independence, distrust of governments in general, and a readiness to fight both individually as part of a local militia. Although the Scots-Irish Presbyterians shared a faith based on Calvinism with the Puritans of East Anglia and New England, there appears to have been little love lost between these groups.<br /><br />7. The Scots-Irish provided the bulk of the Confederate Army although few held any slaves. During the decades following the Civil War, their poverty was worse than before the war, reaching a nadir during the Great Depression of the 1930s. This poverty prompted another mass migration to other parts of America which was accelerated by the mobilization for World War II. As a consequence, the Scots-Irish have been distributed through most of America, except perhaps New England. Their numbers and characteristics, especially their willingness to accept and absorb spouses from other ethnic groups into their extended families, have made the Scots-Irish folkways a key part of the American character.<br /><br />So, is this a recommendation of Born Fighting to others? Yes, but a conditional recommendation. First, one should read David Hackett Fischer's Albion's Seed (see my review) which describes and contrasts the four British groups, including the Scots-Irish, that settled America. Fischer's book is better written, broader in scope, more objective, and based on real scholarship. In contrast, Born Fighting is repetitive, focused on one ethnic group alone (making conflicts with others harder to understand), strongly Scots-Irish partisan rather than objective, and draws much of its best material from other modern authors, including extensive quotes from Fischer's book and Churchill's Birth of Britain. Still, Born Fighting was worth reading and gave me new insights, especially on the history of the Scots-Irish before their migration to America. For the record, my heritage is largely Scots-Irish.<br /><br />Here are two additional suggestions. (1) David Hackett Fischer's Bound Away (see my review) which describes the migrations of Scots-Irish and others to, within and from Virginia. This book repeats some of the content of Albion's Seed but also presents new material on the migrations within and from Virginia. (2) Kevin Phillips' The Cousins' Wars which traces the recurring conflicts between the Puritans of East Anglia and New England and the Anglican Aristocracy of South and West England and the American coastal south through the English Civil War, American Revolution, and American Civil War. This book also draws heavily on Albion's Seed but adds much detail on the three wars that are its central focus. However, it appears to have a mild bias to the Puritan side.others? Yes, but a conditional recommendation. First, one should read David Hackett Fischer's Albion's Seed (see my review) which describes and contrasts the four British groups, including the Scots-Irish, that settled America. Fischer's book is better written, broader in scope, more objective, and based on real scholarship. In contrast, Born Fighting is repetitive, focused on one ethnic group alone (making conflicts with others harder to understand), strongly Scots-Irish partisan rather than objective, and draws much of its best material from other modern authors, including extensive quotes from Fischer's book and Churchill's Birth of Britain. Still, Born Fighting was worth reading and gave me new insights, especially on the history of the Scots-Irish before their migration to America. For the record, my heritage is largely Scots-Irish.     Here are two additional suggestions. (1) David Hackett Fischer's Bound Away (see my review) which describes the migrations of Scots-Irish and others to, within and from Virginia. This book repeats some of the content of Albion's Seed but also presents new material on the migrations within and from Virginia. (2) Kevin Phillips' The Cousins' Wars which traces the recurring conflicts between the Puritans of East Anglia and New England and the Anglican Aristocracy of South and West England and the American coastal south through the English Civil War, American Revolution, and American Civil War. This book also draws heavily on Albion's Seed but adds much detail on the three wars that are its central focus. However, it appears to have a mild bias to the Puritan side.	2005-09-09
US	49630612	R14BSW6LOBVXEI	0195069056	506704034	Albion's Seed: Four British Folkways in America (America: a cultural history)	Books	5	292	295	N	Y	Four Themes in Anglo-American Culture	Albion's Seed by Brandeis University History Professor David Hackett Fischer is the history of the four main regional migrations from Britain to North America in the 17th and 18th centuries. Professor Fischer examines each of these four migrations in great detail, describing the origin, motivations, religion, timing, and numerous cultural attitudes or folkways for dealing with everyday life, including birth, child rearing, marriage, age, death, order, speech, architecture, dress, food, wealth, and time, to cite only a few. He devotes special attention to the different concepts of liberty and freedom held by each of these four British cultural groups.<br /><br />The first major wave consisted predominantly of the Puritans from East Anglia who settled in New England between 1629 and 1640, the years immediately preceding the English Civil War in which Oliver Cromwell and the Puritan army defeated and beheaded King Charles I.<br /><br />The second wave consisted of defeated (or soon to be defeated) supporters of the king and the Established (Anglican) Church of England, primarily from the south and west of England, who settled in the Chesapeake Bay regions of Virginia and Maryland between 1642 and 1675.<br /><br />The third wave was the migration of Quakers from the English midlands (and their religious kin from various German sects) who settled in the Delaware Valley (southeast Pennsylvania, west New Jersey, north Delaware) between 1675 and 1715.<br /><br />Finally, the \\"Scotch-Irish\\", referring collectively to immigrants from the north of England, lowland Scotland, and Ulster, settled the Appalachian backcountry from Pennsylvania southwest through Virginia, the Carolinas, and into Tennessee and Kentucky from 1717 to 1775. Less homogenous in religion than the prior waves, the Scotch-Irish were a mixture of Presbyterians, the dominant group, and Anglicans, a significant minority.<br /><br />Each of these four folk established an amazingly enduring culture in their region, a culture that successfully incorporated later immigrants from other origins who shared little or none of the dominant folkway that had become established in their new home. Their contrasting concepts of liberty are among the most visible today. The Puritan concept of liberty, \\"ordered liberty\\" in Fischer's terminology, focused on the \\"freedom\\" to conform to the policies of the Puritan Church and local government. The Virginia concept of liberty, \\"hegemonic liberty\\", was hierarchical in nature, ranging from the great freedom of those in positions of power and wealth down to the total lack of freedom accorded to slaves. The Quaker concept of liberty, \\"reciprocal liberty\\", focused on the aspects of freedom that were held equally by all people as opposed to the unequal and asymmetric freedoms of the Puritans and Virginians. Finally, the Scotch-Irish concept of liberty, \\"natural liberty\\", focused on the natural rights of the individual and his freedom from government coercion.<br /><br />Albion's Seed was a delight to read, filled with quaint, instructive, and amusing anecdotes that reflect folkways that endure today. It should be equally appealing to those interested in defining and contrasting the cultural histories of different groups, the process and cultural impact of human migrations, the foundations of the Anglo-American world, and the different roots of the concept of liberty.n, a culture that successfully incorporated later immigrants from other origins who shared little or none of the dominant folkway that had become established in their new home. Their contrasting concepts of liberty are among the most visible today. The Puritan concept of liberty, \\"ordered liberty\\" in Fischer's terminology, focused on the \\"freedom\\" to conform to the policies of the Puritan Church and local government. The Virginia concept of liberty, \\"hegemonic liberty\\", was hierarchical in nature, ranging from the great freedom of those in positions of power and wealth down to the total lack of freedom accorded to slaves. The Quaker concept of liberty, \\"reciprocal liberty\\", focused on the aspects of freedom that were held equally by all people as opposed to the unequal and asymmetric freedoms of the Puritans and Virginians. Finally, the Scotch-Irish concept of liberty, \\"natural liberty\\", focused on the natural rights of the individual and his freedom from government coercion.<br /><br />Albion's Seed was a delight to read, filled with quaint, instructive, and amusing anecdotes that reflect folkways that endure today. It should be equally appealing to those interested in defining and contrasting the cultural histories of different groups, the process and cultural impact of human migrations, the foundations of the Anglo-American world, and the different roots of the concept of liberty.	2005-08-20
US	49630612	R1FJ3QZ26LL144	0813917743	380577738	Bound Away: Virginia and the Westward Movement	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Migration To, Within, and From Virginia	Bound Away by Brandeis University History Professor David Hackett Fischer and James C. Kelley of the Virginia Historical Society is the history of three migrations: to Virginia, within Virginia, and from Virginia.<br /><br />The first of these migrations, to Virginia from Britain, summarizes Fischer's earlier book, Albion's Seed (see my review) which describes the settlement of Virginia by Anglican-Royalist-Cavaliers from the south and west of England during the period of Cromwell's Puritan Protectorate (1649-1660). This migration pattern continued after the restoration of the monarchy in 1660 under the guidance of Sir William Berkley, the governor of Virginia who actively recruited members of this aristocratic group and worked to purge Virginia of Puritans, Quakers and other dissenting groups.<br /><br />Migration within Virginia resulted in the emergence of the distinctive subcultures of Virginia's regions: the original Tidewater settlements which expanded to the Northern Neck (between the Potomac and Rappahannock Rivers), Southside (the south-central area bordering on North Carolina), the Eastern Shore (across the Chesapeake Bay), Hampton Roads (the maritime region at the mouth of the Chesapeake), the Piedmont (from the fall line to the Blue Ridge mountains), and the Shenandoah Valley. This period was characterized by increased diversity in the population brought on in part by the Toleration Act in Britain which extended toleration (but not public office) to religious dissenters. Prominent among the Virginians were the Scotch-Irish Presbyterians and various German protestant sects.<br /><br />Migration from Virginia was already well underway at the time of Virginia ascendancy as first among equal states, the Virginia \\"Dynasty\\" of presidents from Jefferson through Monroe, 1801- 1825. Virginia's economy was largely dependent on agriculture, especially tobacco and corn. As the soil became exhausted and other states developed into competitors for these products, Virginia became an exporter of people.  Free whites who chose to emigrate to the new southern states, the southern parts of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and even farther west. Black slaves were sold to plantations throughout the South while the small number of free blacks emigrated to northern states. Both these migrations dispersed elements of Virginia's cultural traditions throughout significant parts of the country, excepting the northern tier of states.<br /><br />Throughout the book, a recurring theme is the reevaluation of historian Frederick Jackson Turner's Frontier Thesis. In 1893, Turner first suggested that the American frontier was a major determining factor in the development of the United States. He proposed that the availability of free land on the frontier promoted the development of freedom and openness in government and society. In addition, he cited the frontier as a melting pot of different cultures in which a new and unique American culture was created by the merging of old cultures in a new environment. Fischer and Kelly take issue with this thesis, pointing out the major influence of cultural continuity in the western migration of Virginians. They also cite the work of other historians, notably the Russian V. O. Kliuchevsky, who cited the availability of free land at the frontier of Tsarist Russia as a factor contributing to the development of governmental and social institutions that were neither free nor open.<br /><br />Bound Away was particularly interesting to me as a person who has lived most of his life in Virginia, but might not have the same appeal to others. For that reason, I'd recommend Fischer's Albion's Seed as a starting point for exploring migration and cultural continuity in America.of people.  Free whites who chose to emigrate to the new southern states, the southern parts of Ohio, Indiana, and Illinois, and even farther west. Black slaves were sold to plantations throughout the South while the small number of free blacks emigrated to northern states. Both these migrations dispersed elements of Virginia's cultural traditions throughout significant parts of the country, excepting the northern tier of states.    Throughout the book, a recurring theme is the reevaluation of historian Frederick Jackson Turner's Frontier Thesis. In 1893, Turner first suggested that the American frontier was a major determining factor in the development of the United States. He proposed that the availability of free land on the frontier promoted the development of freedom and openness in government and society. In addition, he cited the frontier as a melting pot of different cultures in which a new and unique American culture was created by the merging of old cultures in a new environment. Fischer and Kelly take issue with this thesis, pointing out the major influence of cultural continuity in the western migration of Virginians. They also cite the work of other historians, notably the Russian V. O. Kliuchevsky, who cited the availability of free land at the frontier of Tsarist Russia as a factor contributing to the development of governmental and social institutions that were neither free nor open.    Bound Away was particularly interesting to me as a person who has lived most of his life in Virginia, but might not have the same appeal to others. For that reason, I'd recommend Fischer's Albion's Seed as a starting point for exploring migration and cultural continuity in America.	2005-08-20
US	49630612	R14N1II8R19LV5	0399125426	958057236	On A Field of Red: The Communist International and the coming of World War II	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Soviet Relations with the US, Britain & Germany, 1917-39	On a Field of Red, by British journalist Anthony Cave Brown and American military historian Charles B. McDonald, is the history of the Communist International from its inception soon after the Bolshevik Revolution to its official demise during World War II.  The authors drew heavily on recently (1981) declassified files from the US Army and present an exceedingly detailed account separated into two periods: 1917-33 and 1933-39. In each period, they devote separate chapters to events and perceptions in America, Britain, Germany, and Russia.<br /><br />The mission of the Comintern, as it was known in Bolshevik jargon, was to foment unrest with the goal of triggering the proletarian revolution that true believers were certain was imminent throughout the western world.  This mission was a major impediment to establishing normal diplomatic relations between the Soviet Union and the American and British governments. Despite Soviet protests that the Comintern was an independent organization over which the Soviet government exercised no control, the Americans and British recognized that the Comintern, the Soviet government, and the Communist Party of the Soviet Union were all controlled by the same handful of Bolshevik leaders who, in turn, took orders from Lenin and subsequently from Stalin. Consequently, On a Field of Red is simultaneously a history of the Comintern, Soviet foreign policy, and the role of the Communist Party in directing both.<br /><br />The authors present the history of the Comintern in such great detail and from so many perspectives, that a concise summary is not possible. Instead, I'll offer three anecdotes that seem representative.<br /><br />1. During the 1920s, the WWI allies treated the Soviet Union as a diplomatic leper in reaction to the flagrant interference of the Comintern in western domestic political affairs and the increasingly brutal and antidemocratic character of the Soviet government. Germany, on the other hand, was defeated, friendless, economically prostate, and saddled by the Versailles Treaty with oppressive reparations payments and severe limits on German military power.  Not surprisingly, these conditions drove the Germans to seek rapprochement with the other outcast, the Soviet Union. The 1922 Treaty of Rapallo provided the basis for the secret rebuilding of German military strength on Soviet territory and, quid pro quo, for German training and organization of the Red Army.  Despite Rapallo, the Comintern continued to agitate for the proletarian revolution in Germany, undermining the Weimar government, and leading to the rise of Hitler.<br /><br />2. Prior to invading Poland in 1939, Germany had negotiated the Ribbentrop-Molotov non-aggression pact with the Soviet Union, assuring Hitler a free hand in Poland while ceding to the Soviets the eastern part of Poland and the Baltic states. This treaty was also designed by Hitler to circumvent the blockade of German-controlled Europe by the British Navy by substituting imports of Russian raw materials, including oil, metals and food which could be delivered by land routes. This arrangement continued virtually up to the day Hitler attacked Russia.<br /><br />3. In the early days of WWII, prior to Hitler's attack on the Soviet Union and Pearl Harbor, Comintern agents worked to stir up labor unrest in US defense plants, inciting workers to strike rather than send arms and aid to the British in the \\"Second Imperialist War.\\" This stance was altered overnight when Hitler invaded Russia. The new Comintern line urged US workers to make every effort to increase arms production and support the Soviet Union in the \\"Great Patriotic War.\\"  The \\"abolition\\" of the Comintern in 1943 was actually an attempt to project an image of Soviet Union as a loyal ally of US and Britain with a goal of greater aid and an early opening of a second front. In reality, many of the resources and personnel of the Comintern were transferred to the NKVD and refocused on espionage and penetration of the US and British governments by Soviet agents.<br /><br />The authors need to hire a good editor to correct the numerous factual and typographical errors. At one point, the city of Baku has moved to the Crimea, although it is back where it belongs in Azerbaijan a few pages later. Warren Harding is cited as running against Woodrow Wilson in the 1920 election.<br /><br />Despite these flaws, On a Field of Red offers a valuable and detailed diplomatic history of Soviet-German-US-British relations between the wars.  It is a good sequel to George Kennan's two volume History of American-Soviet Relations, Russia Leaves the War and The Decision to Intervene, which I have reviewed separately on Amazon.com.espionage and penetration of the US and British governments by Soviet agents. <br /> <br />The authors need to hire a good editor to correct the numerous factual and typographical errors. At one point, the city of Baku has moved to the Crimea, although it is back where it belongs in Azerbaijan a few pages later. Warren Harding is cited as running against Woodrow Wilson in the 1920 election.  <br /> <br />Despite these flaws, On a Field of Red offers a valuable and detailed diplomatic history of Soviet-German-US-British relations between the wars.  It is a good sequel to George Kennan's two volume History of American-Soviet Relations, Russia Leaves the War and The Decision to Intervene, which I have reviewed separately on Amazon.com. <br />	2005-06-09
US	49630612	R1N46QQE8LX0UT	0691008426	447031564	The Decision to Intervene: Soviet-American Relations 1917-1920, Vol. 2	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Indecision Instead of Decision	The Decision to Intervene by George F. Kennan is Volume II of his History of Soviet-American Relations, 1917-1920. (See my review of Volume I, Russia Leaves the War.)<br /><br />The Decision to Intervene picks up in early 1918. The Bolsheviks had overthrown the democratically-oriented Provisional Government of Russia which came to power in February 1917 and had negotiated a separate truce with the Germans, taking Russia out of WWI.  The details of a formal Russian-German peace treaty were undergoing tortuous negotiations at Brest-Litovsk. In the course of the war, Russia's allies, Britain, France, Italy, and, later, the US and Japan, had supplied significant quantities of strategic raw materials, arms, and munitions to Russia. Large stockpiles were still present at Vladivostok in the Far East and Archangel in the far northwest. Fearing that these strategic materials might be seized by or transferred to the Germans, the French, British and Italians favored landing allied troops to safeguard them. The Japanese supported this position, provided that they could unilaterally land their troops in Vladivostok, with American blessing, to create a bridgehead into Manchuria and Siberia.<br /><br />At this time there was also allied great concern that large numbers of German troops would be transferred from the eastern to the western front for a major offensive. By introducing some allied troops into Russia, the allies hoped to tie down an even larger number of German forces who might otherwise be sent west.<br /><br />For roughly the first half of 1918, President Wilson opposed intervention, and this opposition was sufficient to deter the allies. Around May of 1918, Raymond Robins, whom we met in Volume I as head of the American Red Cross mission to Russia and our informal point of contact with the Bolsheviks, was withdrawn from Russia. His self-appointed role as advocate of recognition of and aid to the Bolsheviks had come to naught, though he did not realize it for some months to come.<br /><br />At almost the same time as Robins departure, the Czechoslovak Legion in Russia was attacked by Red Guards. Czechoslovakia was then part of the Austrian Empire but its population dreamed of independence. The Czech Legion, about 30,000 well trained troops, fought against the Germans and Austrians alongside the Russian Army until Russia left the war. The Czechs had no intention of making peace with the Germans and Austrians but could not continue fighting on Russian territory. Consequently, they attempted to make their way east to Vladivostok from which point they hoped the allies would provide sea transport to the western front. The Bolsheviks, perhaps in response to German pressure, demanded that the Czechs surrender most of their arms and repeatedly delayed their passage along the Trans-Siberian Railway. When the Czechs refused to disarm, Red Guards ambushed them at Irkutsk. The Czechs fought back quite effectively, eventually captured the Trans-Siberian Railway all the way from Vladivostok to the Urals, and were joined by various anti-communist Russian forces. This was the start of the Russian Civil War.<br /><br />By this time, the Bolsheviks had acceded to all German conditions and signed the Brest-Litovsk Treaty, permanently taking Russia out of the war. Also, the British had landed a few troops in Archangel and Murmansk in the north and the Japanese had landed a major force in Vladivostok. Finally, the Bolsheviks had murdered the Tsar and all his family.<br /><br />These combined events prompted the other allies to again approach President Wilson with another request for support for intervention. This time Wilson acceded, partly out of emotional support for the Czechs and partly because he feared he had refused the allies' requests too many times already. However, his decision was not coordinated with the allies or anyone else, including the rest of the US Government. His orders to US troops sent to Russia were incredibly contradictory.For example: (1) Support the Czechs but do not get involved in internal Russian conflicts. (How do you do that when the Czechs are fighting the Bolsheviks?) (2) Proceed to Murmansk and report to the senior British officer who is to command all allied forces there. However, do not leave the port area for the interior. (How do you respond when the British commander says \\"Go!\\"?)<br /><br />During the entire period from the February 1917 Revolution through the intervention, Wilson never consulted with his ambassador in Russia. He ran a one-man foreign policy. Worse, his decisions were half-hearted, more often indecisions than decisions. Kennan summarizes Wilson's role in the intervention eloquently: \\"By failing, in this way, to follow through on the implementation of his own decision, the President contrived to get the worst of all possible worlds: he irritated the British and French with his obiter dicta and drew onto himself, ultimately, the blame for the failure of the entire venture (on the grounds that the United States contribution had been too little and too late); he did not prevent the US units from being used for precisely the purposes for which he said they should not be used; nor did he withdraw them, as he said he would, when they were thus used; yet he did prevent them from having any proper understanding of the purposes for which they were being used; finally, he rendered the US vulnerable to the charge, which Soviet propagandists have never ceased to exploit, of interfering by armed force in Soviet domestic affairs.\\"  (page 421)<br /><br />That's some condemnation. The antidote for this type of disaster is the (Colin) Powell Doctrine: Don't enter into armed conflict unless you do so with an overwhelmingly superior force and the determination to see the conflict through to a successful conclusion.get involved in internal Russian conflicts. (How do you do that when the Czechs are fighting the Bolsheviks?) (2) Proceed to Murmansk and report to the senior British officer who is to command all allied forces there. However, do not leave the port area for the interior. (How do you respond when the British commander says \\"Go!\\"?)    During the entire period from the February 1917 Revolution through the intervention, Wilson never consulted with his ambassador in Russia. He ran a one-man foreign policy. Worse, his decisions were half-hearted, more often indecisions than decisions. Kennan summarizes Wilson's role in the intervention eloquently: \\"By failing, in this way, to follow through on the implementation of his own decision, the President contrived to get the worst of all possible worlds: he irritated the British and French with his obiter dicta and drew onto himself, ultimately, the blame for the failure of the entire venture (on the grounds that the United States contribution had been too little and too late); he did not prevent the US units from being used for precisely the purposes for which he said they should not be used; nor did he withdraw them, as he said he would, when they were thus used; yet he did prevent them from having any proper understanding of the purposes for which they were being used; finally, he rendered the US vulnerable to the charge, which Soviet propagandists have never ceased to exploit, of interfering by armed force in Soviet domestic affairs.\\"  (page 421)    That's some condemnation. The antidote for this type of disaster is the (Colin) Powell Doctrine: Don't enter into armed conflict unless you do so with an overwhelmingly superior force and the determination to see the conflict through to a successful conclusion.	2005-05-06
US	49630612	RCS08WOLI3Q4G	140008198X	72411311	The Future for Investors: Why the Tried and the True Triumph Over the Bold and the New	Books	5	24	25	N	Y	It's Still "Stocks for the Long Run"	The Future for Investors is Jeremy Siegel's sequel to his popular Stocks for the Long Run. Overall, he makes the same point in his new book as he did in the last one: Over long periods of time, stocks have outperformed other liquid forms of investment such as bonds, bills, cash, and gold. While reaching this same conclusion, The Future for Investors does offer some new or revised insights that make it well worth reading. Some highlights include the following:<br /><br />1. Since its inception in 1957, the S&P500 index has underperformed the price movements of those of its original 500 firms that still exist as independent companies. The price movements of the new firms added to the index have underperformed those of the originals even though the new firms have often had higher earnings growth rates.<br /><br />2. Selecting stocks for growth alone often results in paying too much for a stock. While Siegel doesn't spell it out, he seems to be advocating something akin to a PE-to-Growth (PEG) or similar ratio. (Comment: I personally go one step beyond PEG and use PE-to-Growth-to-Uncertainty-in-Growth by dividing the conventional PEG ratio by the standard deviation of the earnings per share growth rate.) He does advocate several strategies based on the selection of low priced/high yield stocks, similar to and including the popular Dogs of the Dow strategy.<br /><br />3. Dividends count in many ways. Most of the recent cases of managers cooking the books to overstate earnings occurred in firms that did not pay cash dividends, since dividends are much harder to fake than earnings. The payment of a steady or increasing cash dividend offers another measure of safety in buying a stock. The recent reduction in the double taxation of dividends makes them much more attractive. Finally, reinvesting dividends is analogous to dollar cost averaging, causing the investor to buy more shares when the price is lower had fewer shares when the price is higher. Over time, this reinvestment will pay off handsomely.<br /><br />4. Much has been written about the aging of the baby boomers and what will happen when they retire. The worst case scenarios describe their departure from the workforce as resulting in (1) no one to produce the goods and services they want to buy in retirement and (2) no one to buy the stocks and bonds that they need to sell to finance buying those goods and services.  Siegel is an optimist; I share his optimism and hope we are correct. Looking at the developing world, he sees an inverse demographic pattern: Lots of young people and fewer old people. If the developing world develops rapidly and broadly enough, those young people will be able to (1) produce the goods and services sought by the boomers and (2) invest in their own retirements by buying the investment the boomers must sell.<br /><br />5. To participate in (and to support) this optimistic outcome, Siegel advises investing as much as 40% of one's portfolio in non-US securities. Selecting and buying foreign stocks is even harder than selecting and buying US stocks, so here Siegel puts a lot of emphasis on mutual funds and exchange traded funds tied to various world indices.vestment will pay off handsomely.  <br /> <br />4. Much has been written about the aging of the baby boomers and what will happen when they retire. The worst case scenarios describe their departure from the workforce as resulting in (1) no one to produce the goods and services they want to buy in retirement and (2) no one to buy the stocks and bonds that they need to sell to finance buying those goods and services.  Siegel is an optimist; I share his optimism and hope we are correct. Looking at the developing world, he sees an inverse demographic pattern: Lots of young people and fewer old people. If the developing world develops rapidly and broadly enough, those young people will be able to (1) produce the goods and services sought by the boomers and (2) invest in their own retirements by buying the investment the boomers must sell. <br /> <br />5. To participate in (and to support) this optimistic outcome, Siegel advises investing as much as 40% of one's portfolio in non-US securities. Selecting and buying foreign stocks is even harder than selecting and buying US stocks, so here Siegel puts a lot of emphasis on mutual funds and exchange traded funds tied to various world indices. <br />	2005-04-17
US	49630612	R2RP88B8UY0KG5	0691008418	606222514	Russia Leaves the War: Soviet-American Relations, 1917-1920, Vol. I (v. 1)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The Foundations of Soviet-American Diplomatic Relations	Russia Leaves the War, Volume I of George F. Kennan's history of Soviet-American Relations, 1917-1920, describes the chaos that the Bolshevik seizure of power produced in US diplomatic circles in the months immediately following the November 1917 revolution. Kennan, who passed away in March 2005, was a leading authority on Soviet-American diplomatic relations and the author of the policy of containment which served as the basis for American policy toward the Soviet Union from the late 1940s to the 1980s.<br /><br />In Russia Leaves the War, Kennan provides many valuable insights into the earliest diplomatic relations between the US and Soviet governments. Some examples:<br /><br />The Tsar was deposed in February 1917 and replaced by the Provisional Government led by Alexander Kerensky. This event appears to have been one source influencing the US decision to enter WWI in April 1917 because it allowed President Wilson to present his decision as one to support the forces of democracy against the forces of authoritarianism. (Naturally, Germany's unrestricted submarine warfare and attempts to incite Mexico against the US were also major factors in the decision.)<br /><br />The perception of Russia by the US in the months following the February Revolution was based on the wildly idealistic and optimistic view that Russia would rapidly develop into a western democracy sharing our values and goals.  In reality, Russia had no heritage of democracy and individual liberty remotely comparable to the one we received from England going back at least to Magna Carta (1215).<br /><br />The treaties creating the Triple Entente (Britain, France and Russia) contained secret provisions regarding territorial adjustments, spheres of influence, and indemnities to be paid by the Central Powers after their defeat.  The US was not a party to these treaties and, in fact, insisted on referring to itself as an \\"associated\\" rather than \\"allied\\" power after entering the war.<br /><br />In late 1917, Russia was a defeated power. The army was demoralized both by military defeat and Bolshevik agitation; the troops were deserting. The Provisional Government was incapable of simultaneously continuing to fight the Central Powers and establishing itself as the new government of Russia. The Bolsheviks exploited this situation by openly calling for a general peace without annexations or indemnities, without prior consultation with Russia's allies, and by openly publishing and denouncing the secret treaty provisions as imperialist plots.  The Bolshevik goals were to rapidly negotiate a separate peace with Germany, consolidate their power in Russia, drive a wedge between their former allies to prevent them from pressuring Russia to continue the war, and to promote communist revolutions throughout Europe by appealing to the masses to rise up against their governments.<br /><br />The US diplomatic presence in Petrograd in November 1917 was almost as chaotic as the Russian political situation. The US Ambassador, David Francis, the former Mayor of St Louis, Governor of Missouri, and Secretary of the Interior, had little knowledge of either Russia or diplomatic service. Although Francis was, as ambassador, the official representative of the US President to the Russian Government, President Wilson apparently had sufficient misgivings about his ambassador's qualifications that he designated as many as four additional representatives of the US Government to Russia who were to various degrees independent of the Ambassador. The most striking of these independent representatives was \\"Colonel\\" Raymond Robins, head of the American Red Cross mission to Russia who attempted, at every opportunity, to influence and maneuver American policy into recognition and support of the Bolshevik regime. The most complimentary description of Robbins is the one provided by Felix Dzerzhinski, head of the Cheka, the Bolshevik secret police, who described Robbins as \\"...the only true and faithful friend we had among the foreigners...who understood our aims and fully sympathized with us and was ready to support our government...\\".<br /><br />Having destroyed the Russian army, Lenin was in a bind. He reached a truce with the Germans to temporarily halt fighting on the eastern front. In the negotiations of a peace treaty at Brest-Litovsk, the Bolsheviks under Trotsky's lead took a hard negotiating position demanding no annexations of formerly Russian controlled territory. When the Germans refused, Trotsky declared the negotiations ended and that there would be \\"no war, no peace\\" in the naïve belief that the Germans would not pursue their military advantage. As the Germans approached the then-capital of Petrograd (St Petersburg), Lenin had to step in to demand that his colleagues accept whatever terms the Germans chose to offer.<br /><br />In the meantime, the Allied powers had been shipping huge amounts of military supplies to Russia via Vladivostok in the Far East. As the Bolsheviks consolidated their power over other Russian factions while caving in to all German demands, fear grew that these supplies might be seized and transferred to the Germans. The British and French both approached the Japanese, also an allied power, to suggest an allied occupation of Vladivostok and a portion of the Trans-Siberian Railway. The Japanese were only too eager to cooperate but wanted an American approval or, at least, a statement of no objection. After a significant period of dithering in March 1918, in which a statement of \\"no objection\\" was drafted and shown to the British and French, President Wilson notified the Japanese that the US could not support an intervention in Russian affairs because it might antagonize the Russian people and drive them into alliance with the Germans.  To prevent or delay this intervention, the Bolsheviks were actively hinting through Robins that if the US would keep the Japanese from intervening in the Far East, they might not ratify the Brest-Litovsk Treaty which would result in a Russian resumption of the war with Germany. Kennan leaves no doubt that this was a tactical maneuver without any intent to actually delay ratification. As long as Lenin was leading the Bolsheviks, the US, Britain, and France were viewed as enemies along with Germany. At this point, the Bolsheviks ratified the Brest-Litovsk Treaty and the book ends. Presumably the tale continues in Volume II, The Decision to Intervene.<br /><br />Kennan is not only a master diplomat; he is also an accomplished historian and superb writer. Russia Leaves the War is a valuable addition to the history of the formation of the Soviet Union and ranks along with Richard Pipes' The Russian Revolution and Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime as essential to understanding this period.tood our aims and fully sympathized with us and was ready to support our government...\\".    Having destroyed the Russian army, Lenin was in a bind. He reached a truce with the Germans to temporarily halt fighting on the eastern front. In the negotiations of a peace treaty at Brest-Litovsk, the Bolsheviks under Trotsky's lead took a hard negotiating position demanding no annexations of formerly Russian controlled territory. When the Germans refused, Trotsky declared the negotiations ended and that there would be \\"no war, no peace\\" in the nave belief that the Germans would not pursue their military advantage. As the Germans approached the then-capital of Petrograd (St Petersburg), Lenin had to step in to demand that his colleagues accept whatever terms the Germans chose to offer.    In the meantime, the Allied powers had been shipping huge amounts of military supplies to Russia via Vladivostok in the Far East. As the Bolsheviks consolidated their power over other Russian factions while caving in to all German demands, fear grew that these supplies might be seized and transferred to the Germans. The British and French both approached the Japanese, also an allied power, to suggest an allied occupation of Vladivostok and a portion of the Trans-Siberian Railway. The Japanese were only too eager to cooperate but wanted an American approval or, at least, a statement of no objection. After a significant period of dithering in March 1918, in which a statement of \\"no objection\\" was drafted and shown to the British and French, President Wilson notified the Japanese that the US could not support an intervention in Russian affairs because it might antagonize the Russian people and drive them into alliance with the Germans.  To prevent or delay this intervention, the Bolsheviks were actively hinting through Robins that if the US would keep the Japanese from intervening in the Far East, they might not ratify the Brest-Litovsk Treaty which would result in a Russian resumption of the war with Germany. Kennan leaves no doubt that this was a tactical maneuver without any intent to actually delay ratification. As long as Lenin was leading the Bolsheviks, the US, Britain, and France were viewed as enemies along with Germany. At this point, the Bolsheviks ratified the Brest-Litovsk Treaty and the book ends. Presumably the tale continues in Volume II, The Decision to Intervene.    Kennan is not only a master diplomat; he is also an accomplished historian and superb writer. Russia Leaves the War is a valuable addition to the history of the formation of the Soviet Union and ranks along with Richard Pipes' The Russian Revolution and Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime as essential to understanding this period.	2005-04-12
US	49630612	R245ZR8JERVE7A	0198780710	727808309	We Now Know: Rethinking Cold War History (Council on Foreign Relations Book)	Books	5	68	70	N	N	Volume I of the History of the Cold War	We Now Know by John Lewis Gaddis is a preliminary reevaluation of the first half of the Cold War (roughly 1945-62) based on information from the Soviet side that has become available since the demise of the Soviet Union. After presenting a wealth of material, Gaddis offers eight tentative hypotheses:<br /><br />1. Diversification of power did more to shape the Cold War than did the balance of power. The Soviet Union rivaled the west in military power but lagged significantly in every other dimension, such as economic, cultural, moral, and ideological.<br /><br />2. Both the US and Soviet Union built empires during the Cold War but they differed significantly. The Western European nations actively sought US support and involvement in the post-WWII years, leading to NATO and the Marshall Plan. In contrast, the Soviet Union had to put down numerous active revolts by members of the Warsaw Pact.<br /><br />3. Many people did see the Cold War as a contest between good and evil, even if historians rarely did. Thousands of East Germans voted with their feet immediately after WWII, again in the 1950s (leading to the construction of the Berlin Wall), and again in 1989 (when Hungary opened its borders).<br /><br />4. Democracy proved superior to autocracy in maintaining coalitions. Gaddis observes that many attributes of a nation's internal politics carry over into its foreign policy. The US was able to maintain its coalition by applying the consensus building techniques used domestically to managing its coalition. The Soviet Union's approach to coalition building, based on its approach to domestic politics, achieved unity within the Warsaw Pact only by smothering dissent.<br /><br />5. Marxism-Leninism fostered authoritarian romanticism. At the end of WWII, Stalin believed that the next war would be between competing capitalist nations, that the workers of the world would unite, and that all the Soviet Union needed to do was to wait for capitalism to self-destruct. He failed to realize that his aggressive moves into central Europe had united the capitalist nations against him.<br /><br />6. Nuclear weapons exchanged destructiveness for duration. Nuclear weapons rendered direct military conflict between the US and Soviet Union untenable, even in the years when the US had an overwhelming nuclear superiority. The result was that the Cold War continued unabated until the late 1980s.<br /><br />7. As long as Stalin was running the Soviet Union, the Cold War was inevitable. If one imagines the changes in history that might have resulted from removing one key individual, the only such change that might have prevented the Cold War appears to be the removal of Stalin. His unique position is due to both his absolute power over the Soviet Union and his aggressive policies, exemplified by his moves into central Europe, his encouragement of Kim Il Sung to invade South Korea, and pressure on Mao to intervene when the US/UN forces had defeated the North Koreans. In contrast, removing any one western leader would not have produced any significant change in the course of events.<br /><br />8. Future Cold War historians should retain the capacity to be surprised. Gaddis modestly observes that his book is not likely to be the final word on the Cold war.<br /><br />One striking aspects of We Now Know is the description of \\"Potemkinism\\" and the impact it had on (1) the Soviet Union, (2) the US, and (3) the Soviet allies. (A Potemkin Village is a façade: An apparently prosperous village consisting of nothing more than building fronts and props built solely to impress the Tsar.) (1) In the face of US military superiority after WWII, the Soviet leadership repeatedly exaggerated its military strength. Waves of bombers flying over the Kremlin in conjunction with parades circled back and flew over again to create the impression of tremendous air power. Khrushchev repeatedly boasted about the superiority of his missiles and nuclear warheads when, in fact, he hadvery few available. This bluff was designed to deter the US by concealing the actual weakness of the Soviet Union, but Khrushchev failed to anticipate the potential reactions by the US and his allies. (2) In the US, the bluff prompted the \\"missile gap\\" debate that figured prominently in the 1960 presidential election and provoked a major effort to \\"catch up\\" with the Soviets. The Soviets were then forced to commit more resources to expanding their strategic capabilities in the face of actual American superiority and the arms race was underway. (3) Several Soviet clients also believed the bluff and acted more aggressively because they relied on Soviet military superiority to back them up. This pattern contributed to Kim Il Sung's invasion of South Korea, the Chinese intervention in the Korean War, and Castro's aggressive stance during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.<br /><br />We Now Know focuses on the first half of the Cold War, so it is unfair to criticize it for not addressing how and why the Cold War ended. Gaddis offers a few hints related (1) the impact of the change in US policy under Reagan from containment to challenging the Soviets across the spectrum of power (military, economic, moral, cultural, etc) and (2) the numerous changes in Soviet policy under Gorbachev, glasnost, creation of democratic institutions, and especially, the decision not to intervene when the Berlin Wall came down.<br /><br />Perhaps Professor Gaddis is working on a sequel to address the second half of the Cold War and, especially, its conclusion. I'll offer three gratuitous thoughts for this endeavor. (1) His comments on Gorbachev's impact on the Soviet Union and the Cold War are very much on the mark. Gorbachev was faced with the impossible task of reforming a monstrosity with no redeeming qualities. His willingness to allow the Soviet Union to die rather than return to the policies of Stalin and Lenin established him as the only Soviet leader who was truly a \\"Hero of the Soviet Union\\". (2) Gaddis' comment that it is not clear whether Reagan's policy change in the 1980s was out of \\"ignorance or craft\\" is a bit unfair. Moving to confrontation may have been risky (primarily in economic terms, since nuclear standoff was well established) but I think it was well thought out and executed. The challenge was extended primarily in the economic and moral dimensions of power where the Soviets were most vulnerable. I don't mean to give all credit to Reagan; I think Margaret Thatcher was his strategic and philosophical mentor in this and many other areas. (3) Finally, I'll offer some credit to Jimmy Carter who claimed the moral high ground for the US with his emphasis on human rights. His policies may have been largely ineffectual at the time (Iran, Nicaragua) but they laid the foundation for challenging the Soviet Union on moral grounds.ing the actual weakness of the Soviet Union, but Khrushchev failed to anticipate the potential reactions by the US and his allies. (2) In the US, the bluff prompted the \\"missile gap\\" debate that figured prominently in the 1960 presidential election and provoked a major effort to \\"catch up\\" with the Soviets. The Soviets were then forced to commit more resources to expanding their strategic capabilities in the face of actual American superiority and the arms race was underway. (3) Several Soviet clients also believed the bluff and acted more aggressively because they relied on Soviet military superiority to back them up. This pattern contributed to Kim Il Sung's invasion of South Korea, the Chinese intervention in the Korean War, and Castro's aggressive stance during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis.     We Now Know focuses on the first half of the Cold War, so it is unfair to criticize it for not addressing how and why the Cold War ended. Gaddis offers a few hints related (1) the impact of the change in US policy under Reagan from containment to challenging the Soviets across the spectrum of power (military, economic, moral, cultural, etc) and (2) the numerous changes in Soviet policy under Gorbachev, glasnost, creation of democratic institutions, and especially, the decision not to intervene when the Berlin Wall came down.     Perhaps Professor Gaddis is working on a sequel to address the second half of the Cold War and, especially, its conclusion. I'll offer three gratuitous thoughts for this endeavor. (1) His comments on Gorbachev's impact on the Soviet Union and the Cold War are very much on the mark. Gorbachev was faced with the impossible task of reforming a monstrosity with no redeeming qualities. His willingness to allow the Soviet Union to die rather than return to the policies of Stalin and Lenin established him as the only Soviet leader who was truly a \\"Hero of the Soviet Union\\". (2) Gaddis' comment that it is not clear whether Reagan's policy change in the 1980s was out of \\"ignorance or craft\\" is a bit unfair. Moving to confrontation may have been risky (primarily in economic terms, since nuclear standoff was well established) but I think it was well thought out and executed. The challenge was extended primarily in the economic and moral dimensions of power where the Soviets were most vulnerable. I don't mean to give all credit to Reagan; I think Margaret Thatcher was his strategic and philosophical mentor in this and many other areas. (3) Finally, I'll offer some credit to Jimmy Carter who claimed the moral high ground for the US with his emphasis on human rights. His policies may have been largely ineffectual at the time (Iran, Nicaragua) but they laid the foundation for challenging the Soviet Union on moral grounds.	2005-03-08
US	49630612	RNU35M6M98190	0387952535	304682455	The Deep Hot Biosphere: The Myth of Fossil Fuels	Books	3	126	136	N	N	An Interesting Challenge for Further Research	The Deep Hot Biosphere by Thomas Gold is described most often as an argument that oil is more plentiful than commonly thought. Gold does argue this point, based on his belief that hydrocarbons are not biological in origin and are found not only in the shallow crust of the earth but also at greater depths. He maintains that hydrocarbons, especially methane, were an important constituent of the earth when it was formed and are widely distributed in depth. These deep hydrocarbon deposits continuously replenish the shallower deposits.<br /><br />The quantity and distribution of oil is only one piece of the picture Gold paints of the earth's formation, its chemical composition, and the development of primitive forms of life. Here are some on his key hypotheses, which I have taken the liberty of reorganizing in a more or less chronological order:<br /><br />1. The earth was formed by the aggregation of cold solid materials rather than hot gaseous materials. Under this hypothesis, the earth would have lacked an atmosphere until its mass was sufficiently large to produce a gravitational field strong enough to capture gas molecules that escaped from the interior of the planet or were deposited along with other space debris. As the earth grew in size, the interior heated up due to the increased pressure.<br /><br />2. Based on spectral analysis of other planets and their moons, methane is a fairly common constituent of these bodies. Analysis of meteorites also supports the presence of methane in the matter that accumulated to form the earth. Methane is chemically stable at the high temperatures and pressures found at depths down to 300 km in non-volcanic areas. Being light and fluid, it tends to rise through the rock layers until it either escapes into the atmosphere or is trapped under an impervious rock layer. As a result of seepage, the earth's first atmosphere was rich in methane. Meanwhile, the increased temperature and pressure in the earth's interior produced longer hydrocarbon chains from methane molecules.<br /><br />3. Analysis of thermal vents in the deep ocean and cold petroleum seepages on the shallower ocean floor has revealed forms of bacteria that rely on hydrocarbons such as methane and ethane, for food. These bacteria, of the Archaea domain, thrive at temperatures as high as 100-150 degrees C and do not depend on photosynthesis. The genomes of Archaea suggest they developed very early in the evolution of life. Gold concluded that Archaea probably developed deep underground, rather than on or near the surface, reflecting his choice of the book's title. In consuming methane, the Archaea produced carbon dioxide and water which also migrated to the surface and were added to the atmosphere. Water in the liquid state became more plentiful.<br /><br />4. Once the atmosphere contained sufficient concentrations of carbon dioxide and water, and liquid water was plentiful, life based on photosynthesis evolved on or near the earth's surface (since it requires sunlight). These life forms consume carbon dioxide and produce oxygen, resulting in yet another change to the composition of the atmosphere.<br /><br />I was attracted to this book because I remember being told, at the age of about seven, that oil came from dinosaur bodies that were transformed over time by heat and pressure into oil. I remember being skeptical, even at that age, because I couldn't understand why all those dinosaurs would have gone to the same place to die. So, what do I think now? I'm still skeptical of the fossil theory and find Gold's arguments somewhat more convincing. However, his deep hot biosphere hypothesis is not generally accepted by the scientific community. His book is not a scientific exposition and is unlikely to sway that community. Rather, it is written to advocate his position, is highly repetitive, and is not very well organized. On the other hand, Gold is no crank; he's a respected physicist. Perhaps his book will stimulate further scientific research aimed at testing both the fossil and the deep hot biosphere hypotheses. For now, I'll lean in Gold's direction but await further evidence.l and the deep hot biosphere hypotheses. For now, I'll lean in Gold's direction but await further evidence.	2005-03-06
US	49630612	RW3OH8YQU8ZAK	0262692694	232024728	Without a Map: Political Tactics and Economic Reform in Russia	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Excellent Critique of Economic Reform In Russia, 1992-98	Without A Map, by Harvard economist Andrei Schleifer and UCLA political scientist Daniel Treisman, describes the successes and failures encountered by Russia's economic reformers in the years 1992-98. The three primary reform efforts, privatization, controlling inflation, and reforming the tax system, are presented individually. For each of these topics, the authors approach is to, first, describe the situation, the government's actions, and the results, second, present summaries of various explanations of these situations, actions, and results, and, finally, provide their own interpretation of the political tactics and economic results.  Each of these areas of reform required approaches that were both economically appropriate (contributed to solving the problem) and politically acceptable (would be enacted by the legislature, carried out by the government, and not provoke major popular unrest). None of the reforms had a powerful constituency and most did have powerful opponents in the form of the various stakeholders in the status quo. In the cases where the reformers were successful they were able to split the opposition stakeholders by co-opting some (by offering them an alternative to their existing stake) and expropriating others (by transferring or abolishing their stake).<br /><br />In the case of privatization in 1992, the stakeholders were (1) the industrial ministries (which had controlled their respective industries under the Former Soviet Union), (2) the managers, (3) the workers, and (4) the regional and local governments. Several formulas for issuing vouchers that could be converted to shares were proposed. The winning solution was to co-opt the managers and workers by allocating them 51% share to be owned individually rather than collectively. This approach resulted in a higher concentration of initial ownership than might have been desirable, but this compromise was probably essential achieving any meaningful degree of privatization.<br /><br />In the case of controlling inflation in 1995-6, the key stakeholders were (1) the central bank and commercial banks and (2) the state subsidized industries (e.g., agriculture and  defense). In a bizarre twist on western banking practices, Russian banks in these years paid their depositors interest rates lower than the inflation rate and invested the funds in commodities and currencies which appreciated relative to the ruble, effectively selling the currency short. The reformers co-opted the banks by creating a market for government securities with the banks as the primary dealers. The banks were transformed from short sellers of the ruble to stakeholders in the ruble by virtue of their holding of government securities.  In addition, the 1996 \\"loans-for-shares\\" deals between the government and the banks further co-opted the banks. Under this program, the government obtained loans from the banks that rather obviously exceed the government's ability to repay. The loans were secured by shares in major oil and mining companies which became the property of the banks when the government failed to repay the loans. Although this tactic appears rather unsavory, it was successful in breaking the pattern of inflation and in further transferring productive assets out of the state ownership. However, it also created the class of oligarchs who became a major stakeholder in the third reform effort.<br /><br />The last area of reform was the attempt to reform government finance and the tax system. Here, the stakeholders were (1) the large enterprises (who paid the taxes), (2) the regional governments, (3) the local governments, and (4) the State Tax Service (STS) which collected taxes on behalf of the federal and regional governments. This is the area where the reformers failed, due primarily to the complex set of obstacles presented by the existing tax structure. Briefly, that tax structure was characterized by (1) overlapping tax bases - federal and regional taxes collected in competition on the same base, (2) tax revenue sharing - selective federal remittances of tax revenues to regions which prompted the regions to hide their revenues and exaggerate their poverty, (3) a tax service charged with serving two masters - the STS collected taxes for both the federal and regional governments, resulting in a fundamental conflict of interest, and (4) combined tax rates so high that they drove small enterprises into the underground economy. The reformers were unable to co-opt or expropriate the stakes of any of these stakeholders.<br /><br />What is amazing about the Russian reformers (especially, Yegor Gaidar, Anatoly Chubias, and Boris Fyodorov) is not that they were not entirely successful but that they were as successful as they were in light of the overwhelming obstacles.(2) tax revenue sharing - selective federal remittances of tax revenues to regions which prompted the regions to hide their revenues and exaggerate their poverty, (3) a tax service charged with serving two masters - the STS collected taxes for both the federal and regional governments, resulting in a fundamental conflict of interest, and (4) combined tax rates so high that they drove small enterprises into the underground economy. The reformers were unable to co-opt or expropriate the stakes of any of these stakeholders.    What is amazing about the Russian reformers (especially, Yegor Gaidar, Anatoly Chubias, and Boris Fyodorov) is not that they were not entirely successful but that they were as successful as they were in light of the overwhelming obstacles.	2005-02-05
US	49630612	R2DYFAIITSBBQT	0198292279	120220564	Inefficient Markets: An Introduction to Behavioral Finance (Clarendon Lectures in Economics)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Arguments Against the Efficient Market Hypothesis	Inefficient Markets by Harvard economist Andrei Shleifer provides a strong argument against the Efficient Market Hypothesis (EMH) in its various forms and an introduction to Behavioral Finance.  Shleifer's main points are summarized below.<br /><br />1. The EMH comes in three forms. The Weak Form states that an investor can not achieve returns above the market averages based on the analysis of historical stock price patterns (Technical Analysis). The Semi-Strong Form states that all publicly available news is reflected in stock prices almost instantaneously and that an investor can not beat the market averages by diligently tracking company earnings and other events (Fundamental Analysis). Finally, the Strong Form says that an investor can not beat the market even by using information that is not available to the public (Insider Trading). The Strong Form can be dismissed by considering the number of corporate executives currently under indictment or serving time for insider trading. Evidence against the Semi-Strong and Weak Forms can be found in the Small Stock Effect (small stocks outperform the market) and January Effect (the market does best in January) which seemed to hold until they were widely publicized but have presumably been negated since then by arbitrage. Additional evidence against the EMH can be found in the less than perfect correlation between the price movements of Royal Dutch and Shell Transport and Trading shares which jointly own the Royal Dutch Shell enterprise in a fixed 60%/40% ratio. Furthermore, the prevalence of a 10% to 20% discount in the share price of closed end funds relative to their net asset values suggests that the market is less than efficient.<br />2. In Chapters 2-4, Shleifer demonstrates the limits of arbitrage in maintaining efficient markets. He develops a mathematical model for predicting the returns of arbitrageurs (who accurately perceive the values of stocks) and noise traders (who incorrectly perceive the same values).  His Noise Trader Model explains how noise traders can sometimes achieve higher returns than arbitrageurs based on the \\"hold more\\" and \\"create space\\" effects. The \\"hold more\\" effect is based on the community of noise traders egging each other on as was seen in the technology bubble that burst in 2000. The \\"create space\\" effect says that the wider the range of incorrect perceptions held by noise traders, the less effective arbitrageurs will be in bring stock prices back to their correct values. Shleifer uses the Noise Trader Model to make additional predictions about the market behavior of closed end funds and shows that, unlike the EMH, it accurately models such phenomena as the rise in share price to the underlying net asset value upon liquidation or reorganization as an open end fund. Finally, he shows that professional arbitrageurs, such as hedge fund operators, are forced to adopt more conservative tactics than individual arbitrageurs by their need to retain clients and funding.<br />3. In Chapters 5 and 6, Shleifer develops a model of Investor Sentiment based on investors' patterns of  psychological underreaction and overreaction. Investors tend to underreact to new information (such as reported earnings) by modifying their perception of a stock's value by less that the new information would suggest and continuing to extrapolate the old stock price trend. If confronted with repeated inputs of new information that consistently points in the same direction, investors tend to overreact by discarding the old model, accepting the recent trend as the new model, and extrapolating it into the future. Finally, he shows how investor sentiments can form a positive feedback trading environment in which arbitrage can actually destabilize the market.<br /><br />This is a book for serious students of finance. It's not a \\"Behavioral Finance for Dummies\\". However, the math does not require more than a year of calculus and a good understanding of calculus-based probability and statistics. Shleifer's writing style is remarkably clear for an academic economist (many of whom I find able to obfuscate the simplest concepts). Overall, Inefficient Markets is a long-overdue reexamination of the theoretical underpinnings of modern finance theory.atistics. Shleifer's writing style is remarkably clear for an academic economist (many of whom I find able to obfuscate the simplest concepts). Overall, Inefficient Markets is a long-overdue reexamination of the theoretical underpinnings of modern finance theory.	2005-01-14
US	49630612	R15P05ULI6GEU9	0691010358	292503144	From Wealth to Power: The Unusual Origins of America's World Role	Books	5	16	16	N	Y	When Do Nations Become Assertive?	In From Wealth to Power Fareed Zakaria presents two competing theories of foreign policy, applies his own modifications to one theory, and compares them with the actual evolution of American foreign policy from 1865 to 1908. The following three paragraphs summarize his thesis.<br /><br />1.  A theory of foreign policy is a method of understanding past and predicting future motives, intentions or goals of a nation's interactions with others, regardless of the outcomes. This is in contrast with a theory of international politics which seeks to explain and predict outcomes. A primary goal of a theory of foreign policy is to understand and predict when a nation is likely to adopt an expansive foreign policy by increasing its military forces, asserting itself diplomatically, or attempting to annex or conquer territory.<br /><br />2.  The two traditional theories of foreign policy are classical realism and defensive realism. Classical realism holds that a nation will adopt an expansive foreign policy when it has the resources to do so. Defensive realism takes the position that nations develop expansive foreign policies in reaction to perceived threats. Zakaria presents his own modification of classical realism, which he calls state-centric realism. In this variation, he posits that not only must a nation have the resources to implement an expansive foreign policy, but an adequate portion of the nation's resources must be available to the state, the national government, the makers and implementers of foreign policy.<br /><br />3.  Zakaria justifies replacing classical realism with state-centric realism based on (1) logical argument: national resources the state cannot utilize cannot support a larger army and (2) the example of the United States immediately after the Civil War when the US became wealthy as a nation but maintained a minimal national government. He then examines events in US diplomatic history to determine whether they are more consistent with state centric realism or defensive realism. His conclusion is that state centric realism is far more consistent with observed behavior than defensive realism.<br /><br />In the process of reaching this conclusion, Zakaria touches on several interesting themes in American history from 1865 to 1908:<br /><br />1. The federal government's reconstruction of the South following the Civil War was largely a failure. When it was ended as a result of the 1876 election, the old power elite and structures, minus slavery, returned. The real changes in the South came about over the next century as a result of the rise of the national economy and national market starting in the 1880s. As a closed regional market, the market inefficiencies of regionalism and racial discrimination in the South were hidden by the lack of competition. As interregional trade grew, the South had to make better use of all its resources to compete effectively. In the process, it became part of a more united nation.<br /><br />2. The rise of the national economy and market also transformed the federal government by inserting it into the management of commerce and the economy in the 1880s and 1890s. Key events were the Interstate Commerce Act in 1887 and the Sherman Antitrust Act in 1890.<br /><br />3. The Civil Service Reform Act of 1883 transformed the federal bureaucracy from a small group of appointees based on political patronage (the practice since Andrew Jackson instituted the \\"spoils system\\") to a larger cadre of career bureaucrats.<br /><br />4. Slowly and step-by-step, Presidents Hayes, Garfield, Arthur, and Cleveland clawed back the authority of the presidency as an independent branch of the federal government. Under Presidents Andrew Johnson and Grant, much presidential authority had shifted to the Senate, which expanded its advice and consent role to include the selection of cabinet secretaries and the negotiation of treaties, and to the House, which attached conditions to appropriation bills that made funding contingent on the President adopting specified policies.<br /><br />These themes increased the power of the federal government by uniting the nation, increasing its role in the economy, and creating a professional bureaucracy. They also provided the conditions necessary (and sufficient, as events have shown) for the US to adopt a more expansive foreign policy under Zakaria's theory of state-centric realism.<br /><br />Zakaria also notes that the rise of the power of the state in the US, in response to domestic economic development, was notably different that in Europe where state power usually rose in direct response to foreign military threats.<br /><br />From Wealth to Power is a valuable contribution to the literature of foreign policy and international politics. It makes a particularly good companion volume to Paul Kennedy's The Rise and Fall of Great Powers which focuses primarily on the historical outcomes of foreign policies. (Zakaria studied under Kennedy as an undergraduate at Yale.)<br /><br />It was fascinating to see a political scientist / historian carefully and consciously apply the scientific method in his work: Zakaria proposes competing hypotheses then presents and analyzes data with the goal of showing that one of the hypotheses is inconsistent with the data and, therefore, false. Beyond the thesis of his book, he has thereby made a major contribution to making political science a real science.reased the power of the federal government by uniting the nation, increasing its role in the economy, and creating a professional bureaucracy. They also provided the conditions necessary (and sufficient, as events have shown) for the US to adopt a more expansive foreign policy under Zakaria's theory of state-centric realism.   Zakaria also notes that the rise of the power of the state in the US, in response to domestic economic development, was notably different that in Europe where state power usually rose in direct response to foreign military threats.   From Wealth to Power is a valuable contribution to the literature of foreign policy and international politics. It makes a particularly good companion volume to Paul Kennedy's The Rise and Fall of Great Powers which focuses primarily on the historical outcomes of foreign policies. (Zakaria studied under Kennedy as an undergraduate at Yale.)   It was fascinating to see a political scientist / historian carefully and consciously apply the scientific method in his work: Zakaria proposes competing hypotheses then presents and analyzes data with the goal of showing that one of the hypotheses is inconsistent with the data and, therefore, false. Beyond the thesis of his book, he has thereby made a major contribution to making political science a real science.	2004-12-31
US	49630612	R3TS9604Y514DC	0807848751	956601425	Stonewall's Man: Sandie Pendleton	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Stonewall Jackson's Right Hand Man	Stonewall's Man, by W.G. Bean, is the biography of Alexander Swift \\"Sandie\\" Pendleton, 1841-64, who is best known as Chief of Staff to General T. J. \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson during the American Civil War. Bean, Professor of History at Washington and Lee University, focuses on Sandie's life and family, bringing the major events of the Civil War into the story only to the extent that Sandie played a role in them or they played a role in Sandie's life. This style gives the book two parallel themes: (1) The role of the military staff during the Civil War and (2) The life and everyday events of ordinary individuals in caught up in the midst of the Civil War.<br /><br />At the time of the Civil War, the military staff had not grown the prominence it achieved only a few years later in the Prussian army, let alone the bloated status it \\"enjoys\\" today. Jackson's Second Corps, at its height, was composed of perhaps 30,000 men, and the staff typically numbered about four or five officers, including the Corps surgeon, Dr. Hunter McGuire. Its role was to facilitate Jackson's communication of with his subordinate commanders and with higher Headquarters, i.e., General Lee. In this era, \\"communications\\" meant hand written communications when time allowed and oral communications otherwise. During battles, \\"transmitting\\" orders typically meant getting on a horse and riding until Sandie found the intended recipient. Along the way, he was expected to render all appropriate support as dictated by the situation: Rallying retreating troops, bringing damaged artillery back into action, and, on his own initiative, improvising and acting for the commander. There was, and still is, a very delicate balancing act between acting on one's initiative and overstepping one's limited authority. Apparently, Sandie, at the ages of 21 to 23, had an extraordinary sense of this balance as he was held in the highest regard by both Jackson and his subordinate commanders. In addition, Sandie enjoyed an unusually close personal relationship with his notoriously tight lipped commander. After Jackson's death at Chancellorsville in May 1863, Sandie enjoyed similar professional relations with Jackson's successors, Generals Ewell and Early, although his personal relations with them were less close than with Jackson. Sandie was killed in late 1864 in the Battle of Fisher's Hill between Early and Union General Sheridan who had embarked on the burning of the Shenandoah Valley to starve the Confederacy into submission.<br /><br />Sandie had been offered promotion from his staff position as a Lieutenant Colonel to command of a bigade as a Brigadier General. He declined the promotion as he thought the staff position carried greater responsibility. It did. Sandie greatly ehnanced the effectiveness of the Jackson's command. He was the war's most effective staff officer, highly adept at implementing the orders of its most brilliant general.<br /><br />The personal life of Sandie Pendleton centers about his parents, his sisters, and his wife, Kate Corbin, to whom he was married less than a year prior to his death. All were prolific letter writers which provided Professor Bean with his primary source material. Sandie's relationship with his father, William Nelson Pendleton, is particularly interesting. W. N. Pendleton was, successively, a West Point graduate, Episcopal minister, headmaster of the Episcopal High School in Alexandria, VA, rector of Grace Episcopal Church in Lexington, VA, master of a boy's prep school in Lexington, and Brigadier General and commander of Jackson's artillery. He evidently had a profound influence on his son who taught in his father's prep school and hoped to follow his steps into the ministry. Serving on Jackson's staff while his father was an important subordinate commander must have further complicated Sandie's balancing act as chief of Jackson' staff. The personal events and letters of the family paint a clear and sad picture of lives caught up in the tragedy of the Civil War in Virginia. For example, in approximately one year, Kate Corbin lost three small nieces and nephews, her brother, her new husband, and their son who was born shortly after his father's death.<br /><br />Professor Bean's narrative also indirectly highlights the prominent role of religion in every aspect of these people's lives. Many of us today tend to forget, if we ever knew, that the Civil War and American Revolution both had aspects of religious crusades, the Civil War on both sides, the Revolution primarily on the American side. For more on this theme, see Kevin Phillips, The Cousins Wars.n Virginia. For example, in approximately one year, Kate Corbin lost three small nieces and nephews, her brother, her new husband, and their son who was born shortly after his father's death.     Professor Bean's narrative also indirectly highlights the prominent role of religion in every aspect of these people's lives. Many of us today tend to forget, if we ever knew, that the Civil War and American Revolution both had aspects of religious crusades, the Civil War on both sides, the Revolution primarily on the American side. For more on this theme, see Kevin Phillips, The Cousins Wars.	2004-12-28
US	49630612	R34BSCOKE9N16M	0312863551	562507215	The Moon Is a Harsh Mistress	Books	5	15	15	N	N	A Tongue-in-Cheek Guide to Revolution	I don't read very much fiction, but make an exception for this book which I reread every 5-10 years. On one level it's a delightful story of a revolt by the inmates of a penal colony on the moon. On another level, it's a rather tongue-in-cheek guide to planning and conducting a Libertarian revolution against the authority of the State, complete with a description of the many pitfalls one might encounter.<br /><br />The story centers around four madcap characters who form the executive cell of the revolution: Mannie, the apolitical computer technician, Wyoming, the beautiful, blond, and sometimes illogical revolutionary, Professor de la Paz, the always logical Libertarian theorist and revolutionary, and Mike the self-aware master computer who controls the entire infrastructure of the lunar colony.<br /><br />Heinlein develops a description of the lunar social mores that flow logically from the fictional origins and setting of the colony. For example, the vast majority of males among the convicts results in unconventional marriage patterns. Similarly, the lack of a formal justice system on the moon results in a self-administered ad hoc legal system for resolving disputes among residents. Heinlein writes in a self-invented form of Pidgin English (with strong influences from Russian and Australian-English) designed to reflect the multi-national origins of the lunar colony.<br /><br />On a philosophical level, Heinlein develops the economic underpinnings of the lunar revolution based on international (Earth-Moon) trade, comparative advantage and finite resources. He also explores the contradictions inherent in a State that can commit acts that would be considered crimes if committed by an individual.<br /><br />Heinlein also weaves into the plot some attributes common to many revolutions in actual history, both before and after his time. By destroying the old order, revolutions create a very brief period of instability in which many changes can be implemented. However, this window of opportunity for radical change closes very rapidly and a new order quickly assumes power which it immediately seeks to consolidate and perpetuate. For example, the initial 1917 Russian Revolution (in February) was hijacked in the \\"October\\" Revolution by the Bolsheviks who imposed a tyranny far worse than the Tsars. Boris Yeltsin's early liberal advisors (Gaidar, Chubias, Feodorov) were absolutely right to immediately free prices and privatize state assets after the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union; these changes probably could not have been made later.<br /><br />In The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Heinlein stays focused on the plot and does not allow the philosophy to become ponderous and overbearing. In contrast, in several of his other books, he seems to forget part way through the book that there was a plot.However, this window of opportunity for radical change closes very rapidly and a new order quickly assumes power which it immediately seeks to consolidate and perpetuate. For example, the initial 1917 Russian Revolution (in February) was hijacked in the \\"October\\" Revolution by the Bolsheviks who imposed a tyranny far worse than the Tsars. Boris Yeltsin's early liberal advisors (Gaidar, Chubias, Feodorov) were absolutely right to immediately free prices and privatize state assets after the 1991 fall of the Soviet Union; these changes probably could not have been made later.  <br /> <br />In The Moon is a Harsh Mistress, Heinlein stays focused on the plot and does not allow the philosophy to become ponderous and overbearing. In contrast, in several of his other books, he seems to forget part way through the book that there was a plot.  <br />	2004-12-19
US	49630612	R3JVLZQS9B1VAP	0685437531	108736837	Short History of England	Books	5	4	5	N	N	American History Starts 2000 Years Ago in England	A Short History of England by the late Edward P. Cheney (University of Pennsylvania) is an excellent introduction to English history, highlighting the major events from Roman times to World War II (my edition was published in 1944). Cheney devotes particular attention to aspects of the subject that are of particular importance to understanding the development of English government and laws and how they provided the foundations for the American Colonies and the constitution and legal structure of the United States today. A few examples include:<br /><br />1.  The various peoples who settled Britain and their contributions to British traditions: Celts, Romans, Anglo-Saxons, Danes, Normans.<br /><br />2.  Britain's relationship with mainland Europe, especially France, Britain's historical adversary up to the time of World War I. By shifting its alliances among the continental powers, Britain was able to prevent any one country from becoming dominant on the continent. The resulting political and economic competition among European rivals produced the conditions described in The Rise of the Western World, by Douglass North and Robert Thomas.<br /><br />3.  The events and documents that form Britain's \\"unwritten\\" constitution: Magna Carta (1215), the Petition of Right (1628), the Habeas Corpus Act (1679), the Bill of Rights (1689) and the (religious) Toleration Act(1689). These all served to protect the individual Englishman from the tyranny of the state (in contrast to the absolute monarchies prevalent on the European continent at these times) and have become the basis for safeguarding individual freedom worldwide.<br /><br />4.  The joint and interacting histories of Britain and the American Colonies from the foundation of the Jamestown Colony (1607) and the first representative government in America (Virginia's House of Burgesses, 1619), through the turmoil of the English Civil War (1640-49), the Commonwealth (1649-1660), the Restoration (of the Stuart monarchy, 1660-1688) and the Glorious Revolution (1688). The modern form of British government came out of these events during the same years that representative government was evolving in the Colonies along similar but not identical lines. See The Cousins' Wars by Kevin Phillips for a description of the political and religious themes that are common to the English Civil War, American Revolution and American Civil War.<br /><br />5.  The formation and evolution of the British Empire. The dissolution of the empire occurred after my edition of Cheney's book was published. Niall Ferguson's book, Empire, fills this gap, describing the rise and demise of the British Empire and its contributions to its former colonies, contributions which he describes as, on balance, positive due to the transmittal of the English traditions of political and economic freedom around the world.<br /><br />Cheney's book is written at a level appropriate for the general reader, requiring no special background.  I have found it an invaluable resource for filling in gaps or providing background for other more specific histories, such as those cited above.<br /><br />The Amazon web site indicates that a new Textbook Edition is to be published soon. This is welcome news. The new edition should be used as the text for a (required?) high school course on English History to help students understand that the United States didn't just spring forth out of nowhere in 1776. Our Founding Fathers had over 1776 years of English history, government, law, tradition, and culture to draw upon.ion (1688). The modern form of British government came out of these events during the same years that representative government was evolving in the Colonies along similar but not identical lines. See The Cousins' Wars by Kevin Phillips for a description of the political and religious themes that are common to the English Civil War, American Revolution and American Civil War.       5.  The formation and evolution of the British Empire. The dissolution of the empire occurred after my edition of Cheney's book was published. Niall Ferguson's book, Empire, fills this gap, describing the rise and demise of the British Empire and its contributions to its former colonies, contributions which he describes as, on balance, positive due to the transmittal of the English traditions of political and economic freedom around the world.    Cheney's book is written at a level appropriate for the general reader, requiring no special background.  I have found it an invaluable resource for filling in gaps or providing background for other more specific histories, such as those cited above.      The Amazon web site indicates that a new Textbook Edition is to be published soon. This is welcome news. The new edition should be used as the text for a (required?) high school course on English History to help students understand that the United States didn't just spring forth out of nowhere in 1776. Our Founding Fathers had over 1776 years of English history, government, law, tradition, and culture to draw upon.	2004-10-31
US	49630612	R1AC6SO288OPBF	0130338516	207626669	A First Course in Probability (6th Edition)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	A Classic of Probability Theory	A First Course in Probability by Sheldon Ross covers all the main topics of probability theory: Combinatorics, Probability Axioms, Conditional Probability and Independence, Discrete Random Variables, Continuous Random Variables, Joint Distributions, Expectation, and Limit Theorems. He develops each topic thoroughly using the definition-theorem-proof approach of classical mathematics, interspersed with numerous examples, many of which are classics in probability.<br /><br />This book does require a solid foundation in calculus. Consequently, it is an appropriate text for a course at an advanced undergraduate level or even a first year graduate course (which is where I first encountered it). It does not require any knowledge of truly advanced mathematics (i.e., measure theory) which one would expect to find in an upper level graduate text, such as Patrick Billingsley's Probability and Measure.<br /><br />Advice to students (and teachers): A student who does not have a solid foundation in calculus, as evidenced by the ability to apply integration by parts, and perhaps a year of post-calculus math which introduced the concept of the mathematical proof, will have a difficult time with this book.<br /><br />This book provided me with all the probability theory I needed to complete a master's degree in statistics. Since statistics is nothing more than a collection of applied problems that can be solved, modeled, or at least understood by using the tools of probability theory, I was able to coast through the rest of my master's program and didn't have to start really working again until I subsequently encountered Billingsley's book (cited above).<br /><br />Thank you, Professor Ross.	2004-10-25
US	49630612	RT3YHRWU69LGL	0060930349	796423640	A History of the American People	Books	4	25	31	N	N	An Anecdotal History of America	\\"A History of the American People\\" by British historian Paul Johnson is a comprehensive coverage of the subject in an anecdotal style, highly readable and liberally seasoned with the author's opinions. Among the high points are descriptions of relatively obscure events which appear to have had more significance than their obscurity would indicate. A few examples, taken from the eight periods covered in the book:<br /><br />1. Colonial America (1580-1750): South Carolina was settled by a large number of emigrants from the British colony of Barbados where slavery was already established on a massive scale. This heritage led to South Carolina's preeminent role in defending slavery and precipitating the Civil War.<br />2. Revolutionary America (1750-1815): George Washington almost single handedly started the French and Indian War when colonial soldiers under his command surprised a camp of French troops who, taken unawares, instinctively ran for their muskets. Not waiting to see what would ensue, Washington ordered his troops to open fire, killing ten of the French including their commander. In the early years of the republic, the roles of Treasury Secretary Alexander Hamilton and Chief Justice John Marshall were especially instrumental in paving the way for the development of capitalism.<br />3. Democratic America (1815-1850): This is the age of Andrew Jackson who greatly broadened participation in American democracy, abolished the Second Bank of the United States (partially undoing Hamilton's legacy), and decisively defeated the Indians in the old Southwest (Florida to Louisiana). Jackson's other contribution to history was in facing down South Carolina when that state attempted to nullify the tariffs adopted by the federal government and threatened secession. Jackson retorted that secession was unconstitutional in that the constitution forms a government, not a league. The United States is a single nation and the states have no right of secession. Thus, Jackson, a southern president, born in South Carolina, set the precedent for Lincoln's position in the Civil War.<br />4. Civil War America (1850-1870): The Confederacy never seemed to realize that the power of its national government, perhaps its legitimacy, and ultimately its existence were compromised by its position on states rights. Holding to the belief that the states are the ultimate sovereign entities prevented the Confederacy from effectively marshalling its forces in the war with the North.<br />5. Industrial America (1870-1912): This was the era of weak presidents and the development of Industrial America. Lacking heroes in government, the heroes of this era were the industrialists and bankers who vastly improved the economic condition of the common citizen. There were scoundrels (Jim Fisk and Jay Gould) but the big names (including Andrew Carnegie, J.P. Morgan, John D. Rockefeller, Henry Ford) were not among them. Interestingly, when Rockefeller's Standard Oil Trust was eventually broken up, it was on the verge of losing its monopoly status by the rapidly expanding market for oil and the subsequent rise of competition from Gulf and Texaco.<br />6. Melting Pot America (1912-1929): The election of Woodrow Wilson in 1912 changed the scope of American government tremendously, laying the foundations for the subsequent emergence of the New Deal and Great Society welfare systems. The failure of the US to join the League of Nations following WW I was not the recalcitrance of an isolationist congress but Wilson's unwillingness to accept any change to HIS treaty, even though the European allies had indicated their acceptance of the proposed changes.<br />7. Superpower America (1929-1960): This is the era of the Great Depression, WW II, and the Cold War. The Depression was triggered by the long run of easy money supplied by the Federal Reserve, especially by Benjamin Strong of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York, the regional bank which still acts as the agent for the Fed inconducting open market transactions.  Near the end of the bubble, when the stock market failed to continue hitting new highs in 1928, Strong observed that he would give the market a \\"shot of whiskey\\" in the form of another interest rate cut. When the bubble evernually burst, rather than allow the long over due correction to take place, President Hoover attempted to pump up the economy by direct government intervention. The ideas that Hoover failed to act out of devotion to laissez faire and that Roosevelt saved the country by instituting the first large scale government intervention in the economy are both myths. Their programs differed little in either content of effectiveness. Furthermore, the enactment of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff effectively exported the recession to Europe and was probably a significant factor in the subsequent rise of Hitler.<br />8. 1960-1997: The author's opinions seem most pronounced in the modern era, perhaps because many of us remember living through these years and perhaps because it is here that he is most at odds with the conventional \\"wisdom\\". He identifies the leading characteristics of this era as the radicalization of the press and the undermining of all authority. The press is cited for its unquestioning support for the inept crusading of Kennedy and Johnson (until it dropped its support of the Vietnam War late in the Johnson administration). Their \\"pay any price, bear any burden\\" rhetoric produced the Bay of Pigs fiasco, massive but ineffective increases in welfare spending, and the Vietnam War. Curiously, the author holds up Richard Nixon as the hero of the era, the statesman who extricated us from Vietnam, abolished the draft, and laid the groundwork for the ultimate defeat of communism by his opening to China. He views Ronald Reagan (somewhat undeservedly) as the light weight partner of Margaret Thatcher. (She was the greatest western leader of the second half of the 20th century and deserves the primary credit for the roll-back of socialism in the west and the defeat of communism. In her shadow, even Washington and  Churchill might not shine as brightly.)<br /><br />Overall, this book was a delight to read, beautifully written, absorbing and thought provoking. I differ with a few of Johnson's opinions and note a few omissions. In particular, in his attempt to rehabilitate Nixon's reputation, he fails to cite Nixon's imposition of wage and price controls as a major contribution to the subsequent inflation and recession of the late 1970s. He correctly notes that the prestige and authority of the presidency reached a nadir after Nixon resigned and congress attempted to fill the power vacuum during the weak presidencies of Ford and Carter. It's curious that he does not credit Reagan for restoring the presidency to its former prestige and authority, as that would seem to be a logical conclusion to his theme of the diminished presidency. However, even in 1000 pages, one can not deal with every aspect of American history.ions.  Near the end of the bubble, when the stock market failed to continue hitting new highs in 1928, Strong observed that he would give the market a \\"shot of whiskey\\" in the form of another interest rate cut. When the bubble evernually burst, rather than allow the long over due correction to take place, President Hoover attempted to pump up the economy by direct government intervention. The ideas that Hoover failed to act out of devotion to laissez faire and that Roosevelt saved the country by instituting the first large scale government intervention in the economy are both myths. Their programs differed little in either content of effectiveness. Furthermore, the enactment of the Smoot-Hawley Tariff effectively exported the recession to Europe and was probably a significant factor in the subsequent rise of Hitler.  8. 1960-1997: The author's opinions seem most pronounced in the modern era, perhaps because many of us remember living through these years and perhaps because it is here that he is most at odds with the conventional \\"wisdom\\". He identifies the leading characteristics of this era as the radicalization of the press and the undermining of all authority. The press is cited for its unquestioning support for the inept crusading of Kennedy and Johnson (until it dropped its support of the Vietnam War late in the Johnson administration). Their \\"pay any price, bear any burden\\" rhetoric produced the Bay of Pigs fiasco, massive but ineffective increases in welfare spending, and the Vietnam War. Curiously, the author holds up Richard Nixon as the hero of the era, the statesman who extricated us from Vietnam, abolished the draft, and laid the groundwork for the ultimate defeat of communism by his opening to China. He views Ronald Reagan (somewhat undeservedly) as the light weight partner of Margaret Thatcher. (She was the greatest western leader of the second half of the 20th century and deserves the primary credit for the roll-back of socialism in the west and the defeat of communism. In her shadow, even Washington and  Churchill might not shine as brightly.)    Overall, this book was a delight to read, beautifully written, absorbing and thought provoking. I differ with a few of Johnson's opinions and note a few omissions. In particular, in his attempt to rehabilitate Nixon's reputation, he fails to cite Nixon's imposition of wage and price controls as a major contribution to the subsequent inflation and recession of the late 1970s. He correctly notes that the prestige and authority of the presidency reached a nadir after Nixon resigned and congress attempted to fill the power vacuum during the weak presidencies of Ford and Carter. It's curious that he does not credit Reagan for restoring the presidency to its former prestige and authority, as that would seem to be a logical conclusion to his theme of the diminished presidency. However, even in 1000 pages, one can not deal with every aspect of American history.	2004-10-17
US	49630612	R3ATRVNGUCHI2E	0848819713	701509896	Rivers of America: The Shenandoah	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Everyday Life and Civil War in the Shenandoah Valley	The Shenandoah, by Julia Davis, is a brief history of the Virginia's Shenandoah Valley. It covers prehistory through the 1940s (my edition has a 1945 copyright date) and places particular emphasis on the Civil War, the only time when the Valley was a significant stage for historical events.  The author's approach is both personal and anecdotal. She brings the main characters vividly to life by means of direct quotes and descriptions of their every day activities:  George Washington who surveyed and lived in Fredrick County as a young man, Thomas J. \\"Stonewall\\" Jackson whose Valley Campaign was a brilliant use of maneuver by an inferior force and who taught a Sunday School for black children that he called \\"My Militia\\", and Robert E. Lee the Confederate Commander of the Army of Northern Virginia who became and President of Washington College (now Washington and Lee University). They are complemented by a host of minor actors including Jackson's dashing cavalry commander Turner Ashby who sat with his wounded horse until it died, the colorful Confederate spy Belle Boyd who smuggled information on Union troop locations through the lines in her petticoats, cartographer Jedediah Hotchkiss who facilitated Jackson's campaign of maneuver, cavalry officer Major Edward McDonald who was shot through the throat just prior to Lee's surrender at Appomattox, Jackson's staff officers Sandy Pendleton, whose descendant I met in 2003 while visiting Jackson's headquarters in Winchester, and Henry Kyd Douglas, whose family estate across the Potomac from Shepherdstown is now run by the Park Service, and many, many more.<br /><br />I first read this book during a high school summer vacation and became fascinated with the Valley and Stonewall Jackson. It appeared to me that it was a tale told by a lady who grew up there and learned its history by word of mouth from some of the actual participants. In particular, she drew on Henry Kyd Douglas' personal history, I Rode with Stonewall, which is still in print.<br /><br />I recently learned a bit more which completes my picture of Julia Davis: She was born in the Shenandoah Valley (in Charles Town, WV) in 1900, the daughter of John Davis, the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for president who later served as ambassador to London. Her mother died as a result of her birth, and her two sets of grandparents played major roles in raising her. Major Edward McDonald was her maternal grandfather and undoubtedly an early source of her knowledge of Civil War history. In addition to history, she wrote a number of historical novels. Her most recent publication is an abridged version of The Shenandoah, entitled Shenandoah: Daughter of the Stars, which is supplemented by photographs by Lucian Niemeyer. Julia died in 1992 in a manner as graceful as her prose:  At a banquet, at age 92, she asked a friend to dance with her. As they left the dance floor, she said, \\"Thank you, Don\\", appeared to trip over a rug, fell, and died in her friend's arms. ([...] is the source of this biographical information.)is still in print.  <br /> <br />I recently learned a bit more which completes my picture of Julia Davis: She was born in the Shenandoah Valley (in Charles Town, WV) in 1900, the daughter of John Davis, the unsuccessful Democratic candidate for president who later served as ambassador to London. Her mother died as a result of her birth, and her two sets of grandparents played major roles in raising her. Major Edward McDonald was her maternal grandfather and undoubtedly an early source of her knowledge of Civil War history. In addition to history, she wrote a number of historical novels. Her most recent publication is an abridged version of The Shenandoah, entitled Shenandoah: Daughter of the Stars, which is supplemented by photographs by Lucian Niemeyer. Julia died in 1992 in a manner as graceful as her prose:  At a banquet, at age 92, she asked a friend to dance with her. As they left the dance floor, she said, \\"Thank you, Don\\", appeared to trip over a rug, fell, and died in her friend's arms. ([...] is the source of this biographical information.) <br />	2004-10-04
US	49630612	R1LX3P11HHGNU9	1843763311	536042770	Technological Revolutions and Financial Capital: The Dynamics of Bubbles and Golden Ages	Books	4	60	60	N	N	Long-Term Techno-Economic Cycles	Technological Revolutions and Financial Capital by Carlota Perez describes the interaction between the technical innovation and long-term economic cycles. Her book covers many of the same topics as The Innovators Dilemma (Clayton Christensen, Harvard) and Only the Paranoid Survive (Andy Grove, Intel). Professor Perez approaches the subject as an academic economist (University of Sussex, UK), using the early 20th century work of Nikolai Kondratiev on long economic cycles (40-50 years) as a point of departure, whereas Christensen and Grove focus primarily on the near-term (2-5 years) implications of innovation on the individual firm. Her main points are summarized below.<br /><br />The world has experienced five major technical-economic cycles:<br /><br />(1) 1771 - , The First Industrial Revolution in Britain, based on mechanization of the cotton industry.<br /><br />(2) 1829 - , The Age of Steam and Railways<br /><br />(3) 1875 - , The Age of Steel and Electricity<br /><br />(4) 1908 - , The Age of Oil, the Automobile, and Mass Production<br /><br />(5) 1971 - , The Age of Information and Telecommunications<br /><br />The starting dates are all approximate and were selected based on some catalytic event or \\"Big Bang\\", such as the invention of Intel's first microprocessor in 1971. (Note to a scientist friend:  I believe that Prof Perez chose the above dates and events based on their economic impact rather than their scientific impact. Thus, the 5th age could be dated from the invention of the vacuum tube or the radio but these events had less economic impact than the microprocessor. Also, these cycles certainly overlapped, with a new age gathering momentum as its predecessor lost it. Thus, the vacuum tube and radio were key predecessor events leading to the 5th age.)<br /><br />Each age has followed a rough pattern of four phases:<br /><br />(1) Irruption: Invention/development of the new technological paradigm, decay of the preceding paradigm, probably in conjunction with economic stagnation and unemployment.<br /><br />(2) Frenzy: Rapid adoption of the new paradigm and intensive financial investment, often leading to irrational excesses and a financial bubble (e.g., 1998-2000).<br /><br />(3) Synergy: The rationalization of the new paradigm and renewed economic expansion after a purging of the excesses of the bubble.<br /><br />(4) Maturity: Market saturation and the gradual exhaustion of the potential of the new technology setting the stage for the next cycle.<br /><br />Professor Perez also provides a useful description of the roles of financial (investment/portfolio) capital and production (operating) capital and their interaction over the course of the techno-economic cycle.<br /><br />Economics is not an exact science. (I am a mathematician, not an economist, and suspect some economists might disagree.) One should not expect economic models to provide the same exact predictions as Newtonian mechanics, for example. Economics also suffers the disadvantage of not providing a mechanism for repeating an experiment to verify the results. With these disclaimers, I recommend Professor Perez's book as providing one of the best models available for understanding the long-term relationship between technological innovation and the economic cycle.ation and unemployment. <br />(2) Frenzy: Rapid adoption of the new paradigm and intensive financial investment, often leading to irrational excesses and a financial bubble (e.g., 1998-2000). <br />(3) Synergy: The rationalization of the new paradigm and renewed economic expansion after a purging of the excesses of the bubble. <br />(4) Maturity: Market saturation and the gradual exhaustion of the potential of the new technology setting the stage for the next cycle. <br /> <br />Professor Perez also provides a useful description of the roles of financial (investment/portfolio) capital and production (operating) capital and their interaction over the course of the techno-economic cycle. <br /> <br />Economics is not an exact science. (I am a mathematician, not an economist, and suspect some economists might disagree.) One should not expect economic models to provide the same exact predictions as Newtonian mechanics, for example. Economics also suffers the disadvantage of not providing a mechanism for repeating an experiment to verify the results. With these disclaimers, I recommend Professor Perez's book as providing one of the best models available for understanding the long-term relationship between technological innovation and the economic cycle.  <br />	2004-09-04
US	49630612	RLTFDJEDFQG4D	0029323908	737622882	American Revolutionaries in the Making	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Training America's Early Leaders	In American Revolutionaries in the Making, Professor Charles S. Sydnor examines the political structures and processes in Virginia prior to the American Revolution.  His goal is to understand how those structures and processes brought forth the large number of highly capable leaders who were key to the formation and leadership of the United States in the revolution and early days of independence: George Washington, Thomas Jefferson, James Madison, James Monroe, Patrick Henry, George Mason, and John Marshall, to name only the most prominent.<br /><br />Professor Sydnor describes three steps along the pathway to power in colonial and revolutionary Virginia that brought these men to the top:<br /><br />1. Justice of the Peace: The first public office held by almost all of these men was Justice of the Peace in their home county. This office was quite different from anything in the current age. Each county had from 10 to 30 Justices, who collectively formed the County Court. This court not only heard cases of civil and criminal law but also constituted the primary governing body of the county with executive and legislative as well as judicial powers. Justices were commissioned by the Governor, usually based on nominations from the current members of the Court. The Court was, therefore, a self perpetuating body not directly subject to popular control. The only avenues of recourse open to the public were petition to the Governor or the House of Burgesses, colonial Virginia's elective legislature, to which each county elected two members. The County Courts typically chose their nominees for Justice of the Peace based on talent and promise from aspiring members of the land-owning gentry. Selection was not based on popular opinion, campaign promises, or oratorical skills. Once commissioned, a new Justice embarked on a practical education in all aspects of county government and relations with Governor and House of Burgesses under the guidance of the senior justices.<br /><br />2. Election to the House of Burgesses: A county's members of the House of Burgesses were the only elected officials of any significance in colonial Virginia. The Governor was appointed by the King (prior to 1776) or by the House of Burgesses (after 1776). The election of Burgesses was democratic, based on the limited franchise of the day: White males who owned a requisite number of acres of land in a county could vote in that county. This qualification led to several results that seem strange today. A man was qualified to vote in every county in which he owned sufficient acreage. However, to exercise his multiple votes, he had to physically present himself at the county seat of each county on election day; the physical demands placed a practical limit on multiple votes. A voter could also seek election in any county in which he could vote, regardless of his residence. George Washington was elected to the House from Frederick County, 50 miles west of his home in Fairfax County. The restriction of the vote to the land-owning gentry appears at first glance to favor the wealthy classes. However, in practice, this restriction denied the vote to the adult sons and employees of the land-owner unless they owned land in their own rights. This practice was intended to, and in fact did, limit the influence of the land-owners. Voting was conducted by public statement of the voter's preference to the county sheriff, usually in the presence of all candidates, who would typically bow and thank voters for their support. Candidates were expected to provide \\"treats\\" for voters, consisting of lavish food and drink. However, the \\"treat\\" must be open to all voters and not a direct quid pro quo for support. Candidates, by custom, did not directly solicit votes. They stood upon their reputations, which were usually well known by the few hundred voters in the county. Through this electoral process, the voting public exercised their influence over government.<br /><br />3. Higher Office: Once elected to the House of Burgesses, a new member would be assigned to various committees and to draft documents and speeches. The leadership of the House, the Speaker and Committee Chairmen, thereby gained a sense of the abilities of each member. From 1776 on, the House, guided by its leadership, selected Virginia's governors and representatives to the Continental Congress, Constitutional Convention, and, later, its US senators. Selection for this third career step was based on demonstrated skills in writing, oratory and leadership.<br /><br />I reread this book after reading Fareed Zakaria's The Future of Freedom, which examines the nature of liberal democracy today (see my review). The political practices in colonial Virginia are clearly not applicable to today's world for two reasons: It would be impossible to base elections on first hand knowledge of the candidates when the populace has grown to its present size and, more importantly, it would require severely restricting the voting franchise. However, it is useful to remember that limited democracy and the multi-leveled selection process which used different criteria at each level, produced an incredibly talented and effective leadership for both Virginia and the early United States.  Can we say as much about today's candidates for high office?ffice: Once elected to the House of Burgesses, a new member would be assigned to various committees and to draft documents and speeches. The leadership of the House, the Speaker and Committee Chairmen, thereby gained a sense of the abilities of each member. From 1776 on, the House, guided by its leadership, selected Virginia's governors and representatives to the Continental Congress, Constitutional Convention, and, later, its US senators. Selection for this third career step was based on demonstrated skills in writing, oratory and leadership. <br /> <br />I reread this book after reading Fareed Zakaria's The Future of Freedom, which examines the nature of liberal democracy today (see my review). The political practices in colonial Virginia are clearly not applicable to today's world for two reasons: It would be impossible to base elections on first hand knowledge of the candidates when the populace has grown to its present size and, more importantly, it would require severely restricting the voting franchise. However, it is useful to remember that limited democracy and the multi-leveled selection process which used different criteria at each level, produced an incredibly talented and effective leadership for both Virginia and the early United States.  Can we say as much about today's candidates for high office?  <br />	2004-08-08
US	49630612	R2NKZRDE1SLIG0	0393324877	510021043	The Future of Freedom: Illiberal Democracy at Home and Abroad	Books	5	16	16	N	N	More is not always Better	Fareed Zakaria (born in India, Harvard PhD, Editor of Foreign Affairs, Editor of Newsweek's International Edition) examines Liberal Democracy in his recent book, The Future of Freedom. His main themes:<br />1. &quot;Liberal Democracy&quot; must be both Liberal and Democratic, Liberal in that it protects its citizens from abuse by the government and Democratic in the sense that it is responsible to its citizens.<br />2. &quot;More Democratic&quot; is not necessarily better than &quot;Reasonably Democratic&quot;. Socrates was forced to drink hemlock by Athenian Democracy. The Reign of Terror in Revolutionary France sent thousands to the guillotine via very Democratic National Assembly. Hitler was democratically elected. None of these examples were Liberal.<br />3. Emerging/developing nations have demonstrated a propensity to form stable democratic governments only when their per capita GDP exceeds a threshold of $3000 - 6000. Instituting democracy at lower levels of per capita GDP has usually resulted in unstable governments that end up being illiberal, undemocratic and economically stagnant. I interpret this phenomenon as an example of Maslow's hierarchy of needs: People are unlikely to have the time, energy, or motivation to be active participants in a democratic process if their primary concerns are hunger, safety or other lower level needs.<br />4. Liberal Autocracies are not entirely bad. Taiwan, Singapore, South Korea, and Chile are all examples of Liberal Autocracies that have or are evolving into Liberal Democracies.<br />5. In mature Liberal Democracies, more democracy may also be a bad thing. The US has become more democratic in many ways (direct election of senators, nominating primaries, open congressional hearings). One result is that elected officials are increasingly focused on winning their next election and less focused on the long term public good. A second result is that special interests, the narrower the better, have had increasing influence on public policy. This results from the phenomenon described by economist Mancur Olson in The logic of Collective Action: A small group with narrow interests will be more committed to achieving their goals at the expense of society in general than society in general will be in defeating them.<br />6. A possible solution for the current US problem is delegated democracy: Remove politics from key decisions by entrusting the formulation of policy to an appointed group of experts, analogous to the way Federal Reserve sets monetary policy. Democratic control is exercised over the appointed body of experts by their selection and confirmation by elected bodies.<br />&quot;Democracy&quot; has become so hallowed a concept that most people today (myself included) have accepted it as a universally desirable goal. In reading Dr Zakaria's book, I was reminded of a supplemental reading for a college history course: American Revolutionaries in the Making by Charles Sydnor. His thesis, as I remember it, is that much of the success of the early United States can be attributed to the Gentleman Farmers of Virginia: Washington, Jefferson, et al. These leaders created and practiced a very limited form of democracy but devoted their time, effort and considerable thought to making it work. Sydnor's book is still available. I recommend it as a supplementary reading to The Future of Freedom.icy. This results from the phenomenon described by economist Mancur Olson in The logic of Collective Action: A small group with narrow interests will be more committed to achieving their goals at the expense of society in general than society in general will be in defeating them.<br>6. A possible solution for the current US problem is delegated democracy: Remove politics from key decisions by entrusting the formulation of policy to an appointed group of experts, analogous to the way Federal Reserve sets monetary policy. Democratic control is exercised over the appointed body of experts by their selection and confirmation by elected bodies.<br />&quot;Democracy&quot; has become so hallowed a concept that most people today (myself included) have accepted it as a universally desirable goal. In reading Dr Zakaria's book, I was reminded of a supplemental reading for a college history course: American Revolutionaries in the Making by Charles Sydnor. His thesis, as I remember it, is that much of the success of the early United States can be attributed to the Gentleman Farmers of Virginia: Washington, Jefferson, et al. These leaders created and practiced a very limited form of democracy but devoted their time, effort and considerable thought to making it work. Sydnor's book is still available. I recommend it as a supplementary reading to The Future of Freedom.	2004-07-15
US	49630612	R3EL4XE5S0VCXD	0674011740	747409495	Surprise, Security, and the American Experience	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Three Centuries of US Security Policy	In \\"Surprise, Security, and the American Experience\\", John Lewis Gaddis, professor of history and political science at Yale, reexamines America's role in international affairs in the aftermath of the 9/11 surprise terrorist attack.  His underlying theme is that in its history the US has experienced three surprise attacks on its territory (the British burning of the White House and Capitol in 1814, the Japanese attack on Pearl Harbor in 1941, and the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001). Each of these three surprises resulted in a marked shift in our approach to national security.<br />Professor Gaddis interprets the policy that evolved from the 1814 attack as one crafted by John Quincy Adams when he was Secretary of State under President James Monroe that has three essential features: Preemption, Unilateralism, and Hegemony. Together, these qualities underpinned both the Monroe Doctrine and Manifest Destiny. (Gaddis offers the interesting note that the Monroe Doctrine was originally proposed to the US by the British government as a joint British-US policy to deal with their concern that other European powers might grab parts of the decaying Spanish Empire in South America. The US acted unilaterally in proclaiming the Monroe Policy and, having only limited power to enforce the Policy, relied on the British to back it up.  As noted by Paul Johnson in \\"Birth of the Modern\\", this unacknowledged partnership was the first step leading to the Special Relationship between the US and Britain.)<br />Preemption, Unilateralism, and Hegemony remained the underpinnings of US policy well into the 20th Century. Our participation in WW I was a brief excursion from this base and, even then, we insisted on being an \\"associated\\" rather than \\"allied\\" power. Pearl Harbor changed all this. The US became a full-fledged member of the Allied Powers in the war against Germany and Japan and emerged as the acknowledged leader of the western democracies in the Cold War against the Soviet Union for the half century thereafter. This period following WW II was characterized by containment rather than preemption, multilateralism rather than unilateralism, and (prior to the Reagan presidency) tacit recognition of Soviet hegemony in their sphere. During both WW II and the cold war, the US was accepted as the leader by other western powers primarily because Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union offered less attractive choices. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, we no longer have that advantage.<br />The third surprise on 9/11 presented the US with a new security problem that could not be dealt with using the old models. Most terror organizations, such as Al Qaeda, are not nation states or linked firmly to any nation state. How do you contain an organization that has no territory? How do you deter terrorists who accept their own death as a consequence of their tactics? The surprise of 9/11 has taken US security strategy back to the essential features of John Quincy Adams: Preemption, Unilateralism (at least if support is not offered), and Hegemony (now on a global rather than hemispheric basis). Many of these themes are clear in the published National Security Strategy of the Bush Administration and have been demonstrated in Afghanistan and Iraq. Whether one agrees with these policies or not, they do have a solid grounding in our 19th century policies and appear to have been the result of careful research, analysis and thought.<br />Professor Gaddis concludes with a too brief comment that a world-federalism based on the thoughts of Adam Smith (applying the freedom to choose to the political as well as the economic sphere) may offer a useful model for future. I hope he will expand on that thought.ion for the half century thereafter. This period following WW II was characterized by containment rather than preemption, multilateralism rather than unilateralism, and (prior to the Reagan presidency) tacit recognition of Soviet hegemony in their sphere. During both WW II and the cold war, the US was accepted as the leader by other western powers primarily because Nazi Germany and the Soviet Union offered less attractive choices. Following the collapse of the Soviet Union, we no longer have that advantage. <br />The third surprise on 9/11 presented the US with a new security problem that could not be dealt with using the old models. Most terror organizations, such as Al Qaeda, are not nation states or linked firmly to any nation state. How do you contain an organization that has no territory? How do you deter terrorists who accept their own death as a consequence of their tactics? The surprise of 9/11 has taken US security strategy back to the essential features of John Quincy Adams: Preemption, Unilateralism (at least if support is not offered), and Hegemony (now on a global rather than hemispheric basis). Many of these themes are clear in the published National Security Strategy of the Bush Administration and have been demonstrated in Afghanistan and Iraq. Whether one agrees with these policies or not, they do have a solid grounding in our 19th century policies and appear to have been the result of careful research, analysis and thought.<br />Professor Gaddis concludes with a too brief comment that a world-federalism based on the thoughts of Adam Smith (applying the freedom to choose to the political as well as the economic sphere) may offer a useful model for future. I hope he will expand on that thought.	2004-07-04
US	49630612	R2XDL21WT4ZPTU	1591143527	640855966	The CIA's Russians	Books	5	11	11	N	Y	What Makes a Spy a Spy?	John Hart is unusual in that he retired after an apparently distinguished career at the CIA and wrote an officially authorized public version of his last assignment (which started in 1971):  An analysis of the personalities and psychological profiles of a number of Soviet defectors. His goal was to identify any common characteristics that might be useful in targeting future defectors and evaluating their potential to provide useful and reliable intelligence.<br />Hart describes three publicly known defectors in depth, one identified only as Mikhail, briefly, and an additional six in a very cursory manner, apparently because their cases are still sensitive. He then seeks to identify common traits among the 10 cases, concluding that they were characterized by many of the following: (1) All were senior and relatively successful members of the Soviet intelligence community, KGB or GRU, having attained a typical rank of colonel, (all but one of the ten were military officers), (2) they felt resentful toward the Soviet system either because of its failure to recognize and promote them further or because it left them feeling excluded from its elite, (3) they were not motivated to defect by politics, religion, or idealism, (4) most had placed themselves in a compromised situation by poor management of personal or government funds and were seeking money to resolve these dilemmas with western funds, and (5) most thought that they were too smart to be caught by Soviet counterintelligence until it was too late. Of the four cases in which Hart reports the outcome, three were executed by the Soviets, only one successfully defected.<br />In relating these stories, Hart produces some fascinating insights.<br />Oleg Penkovsky, undoubtedly the most capable of the ten, provided intelligence on the capabilities and intentions of the Soviet leadership during the 1962 Cuban missile crisis that were probably key to President Kennedy's decision to face down Khrushchev's threats. Based on Penkovsky's reports, it was apparent that Khrushchev was bluffing.<br />Yuri Nosenko, the sole successful defector, was caught up in the paranoid webs spun by James Jesus Angleton who was then the head of CIA counterintelligence. Angleton saw Soviet plots behind virtually everything, including Nosenko, despite the fact that Nosenko had identified the locations of numerous listening devices in the US embassy in Moscow. Nosenko was imprisoned for much of his first two years in the US and subjected to solitary confinement and harsh interrogation. Eventually, Director Richard Helms intervened to end the mistreatment. Happily, Nosenko was exonerated and placed on the CIA payroll.<br /><br />Hart also offers the fascinating hypothesis that Lenin, in forcing Russia to adopt the European industrial model, transformed Russia, perhaps permanently, from a Eurasian to a European society and nation, ending the Slavophile-Modernizer debate. It will be interesting to see if this theory is correct.Penkovsky's reports, it was apparent that Khrushchev was bluffing.<br />Yuri Nosenko, the sole successful defector, was caught up in the paranoid webs spun by James Jesus Angleton who was then the head of CIA counterintelligence. Angleton saw Soviet plots behind virtually everything, including Nosenko, despite the fact that Nosenko had identified the locations of numerous listening devices in the US embassy in Moscow. Nosenko was imprisoned for much of his first two years in the US and subjected to solitary confinement and harsh interrogation. Eventually, Director Richard Helms intervened to end the mistreatment. Happily, Nosenko was exonerated and placed on the CIA payroll.<BR>     <BR>Hart also offers the fascinating hypothesis that Lenin, in forcing Russia to adopt the European industrial model, transformed Russia, perhaps permanently, from a Eurasian to a European society and nation, ending the Slavophile-Modernizer debate. It will be interesting to see if this theory is correct.	2004-06-20
US	49630612	R24Y2WDT728QOB	0471412791	437056771	The Biotech Investor's Bible	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Good but Disorganized	This was a difficult book for me to review.  I bought it primarily because of the rave reviews on this web site.  Overall, I'm  glad I did.  However, the book fell slightly short of the reviews, hence my 4 star rating.  It contained a great deal of interesting and useful information but lacked  organization and structure.  In that sense, it was indeed a Bible, a collection of articles, rather than a text.<br />My primary complaint is that the first few chapters were practically devoid of content, offering only hype on how great biotech is.  The comparison of biotechnology with the PC industry was also a bit of meaningless hype.<br />On the positive side, after the reader wades through or skips  the first three chapters (unfortunately, I read them), there are numerous valuable bits of information and insight.  Particularly valuable are the author's idea of categorizing biotech companies by market capitalization (share price times shares outstanding).  This is a useful way of measuring how the market evaluates a company that has no current earnings.  Chapters 10 through 15 are a veritable encyclopedia of the different approaches taken by biotech companies, from anti-sense to vaccines.  The leading companies in each field are introduced and their prospects briefly reviewed. These chapters were readily useful to the investor and led me to make (so far) successful investments in PDLI and QLTI.<br />The book is now silghtly dated, having been published in 2001. However, this can be said of any two year old investment book.  The reader should certainly do some careful analysis of the current state of any candidate for investment. I actually found the slightly dated nature useful in that it allowed my to judge which companies still looked like winners two years later and which did not.<br />Advice:  Buy the book, skip the first three chapters, and read the rest.  Also buy and read Investing in Biotech by David Harper which covers much of the same material in a more orderly manner.  (More detail is available in my review of that book.)manner.  (More detail is available in my review of that book.)	2003-09-19
US	49630612	R1ABB7FNUMQTH	1586480189	972672754	First Person: An Astonishingly Frank Self-Portrait by Russia's President	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Engaging Enigma	2014 Update to Book Review<br /><br />I wrote this book review in 2003 when it appeared that Putin would continue Gorbachev's and Yeltsin's policies of domestic reform and cooperation with the West that effectively ended the Cold War. That no longer appears to be the case. The following paragraph is from an interview with NATO Secretary-General Anders Fogh Rasmussen that was published in The Wall Street Journal on April 12, 2014. It provides an accurate and necessary update to my 2003 review.<br /><br />So what changed? \\"I think he changed his worldview,\\" Mr. Rasmussen says of the Russian leader. \\"We still remember his famous speech at the Munich Security Conference[in February 2007], at which he stated that the breakdown of the Soviet Union was the biggest tragedy of the last century. That was the first indication that he had changed his worldview, and now we have seen it implemented in practice, first in Georgia in 2008 and now reaffirmed in Crimea.\\"<br /><br />-------------------------------------------------------------<br />Original 2003 Review<br /><br />First Person is a transcription of a series of interviews conducted by three Russian journalists with Vladimir Putin, his wife and daughters, friends, teachers, and colleagues.  The book is written in a question-answer format which is usually effective but occasionally leaves the reader in doubt as to who is answering a particular question: Putin or one of the other interviewees.<br />Don't read this book expecting deep insight into Putin's political philosophy or details of his experience in the KGB.  With that said, First Person is a useful and interesting account of Putin's life, family, and experiences.  An occasional bit of insight either slips or is inserted into the conversations.  (It's hard to believe that someone as in-control as Putin would really let something slip.  I don't mean to be suspicious or derogatory, I'm just recognizing that Putin is a successful politician who climbed one of the most difficult -and dangerous- ladders in the world.)  One bit of possible insight is the fact that Putin was KGB station chief in Dresden, East Germany, at the time that the Berlin wall was pulled down.  He shared a facility with the Stasi, his East German counterparts.  When mobs approached the Stasi facility. Putin cabled Moscow for help and direction.  He received neither and left active duty with the KGB soon after his (premature?) return from that assignment.  I'm sure he was a bit disillusioned by this experience, but the degree and nature of the disillusionment is not developed.  No surprise here; successful politicians don't intentionally walk into mine fields.<br />Overall, the book was an interesting and light read.  Putin describes himself as a hooligan in his youth who mended his ways primarily to achieve his goal of going to law school in preparation for a career in the KGB.  He chose that career path after seeing a movie entitled the Sword and the Shield (the KGB logo) which prompted him to walk uninvited into the local KGB office in Leningrad to seek employment.  The officer who met him advised him that the KGB seldom considered walk-in applicants and that he should attend university and study law as a means of preparing himself.  Rather amazingly, he did exactly that and was recruited immediately upon graduation.<br />The book also contains numerous details about Putin's early political life in the administration of Anatoly Sobchak, the reform-minded mayor of Leningrad, and his subsequent steady rise in the national government as well as numerous anecdotes from his family life.ifficult -and dangerous- ladders in the world.)  One bit of possible insight is the fact that Putin was KGB station chief in Dresden, East Germany, at the time that the Berlin wall was pulled down.  He shared a facility with the Stasi, his East German counterparts.  When mobs approached the Stasi facility. Putin cabled Moscow for help and direction.  He received neither and left active duty with the KGB soon after his (premature?) return from that assignment.  I'm sure he was a bit disillusioned by this experience, but the degree and nature of the disillusionment is not developed.  No surprise here; successful politicians don't intentionally walk into mine fields.<br />Overall, the book was an interesting and light read.  Putin describes himself as a hooligan in his youth who mended his ways primarily to achieve his goal of going to law school in preparation for a career in the KGB.  He chose that career path after seeing a movie entitled the Sword and the Shield (the KGB logo) which prompted him to walk uninvited into the local KGB office in Leningrad to seek employment.  The officer who met him advised him that the KGB seldom considered walk-in applicants and that he should attend university and study law as a means of preparing himself.  Rather amazingly, he did exactly that and was recruited immediately upon graduation.<br />The book also contains numerous details about Putin's early political life in the administration of Anatoly Sobchak, the reform-minded mayor of Leningrad, and his subsequent steady rise in the national government as well as numerous anecdotes from his family life.	2003-03-02
US	49630612	R29IOH6BLBMP5P	1551924404	458911923	Investing in Biotech: How to Profit from the Biopharmaceutical Revolution	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Biotech:  Science and Investing	David Harper manages a biotechnology investment firm and is a research associate in the Zoology Department at the University of British Columbia.  He draws on both his financial and technical expertise in his book Investing in Biotech.<br />The first half of the book presents the science of biotechnology at a level appropriate for the intelligent layperson.  He explains the difference between biotech and traditional pharmaceuticals (large molecules often produced by the human body versus small molecules), describes the framework of disease (anatomy, physiology, pathology, and treatment), presents the various approaches to developing biotech drugs (e.g., gene therapy, monoclonal antibodies, antisense), and identifies specific types of disease which biotech products may treat (cardiovascular, neurological, metabolic, transplantation).<br />The second half presents factors to consider and strategies to employ in biotech investing.  A biotech company's pipeline of potential future drugs is the most important factor in evaluating its investment potential.  However, the value of each individual pipeline drug must be evaluated in terms of its progress through the process of clinical trials leading to approval and each drug must be assigned an appropriate weighting which increases as the drug progresses through these trials.  Harper also presents his own formula for determining the value of biotech stocks which I have not seen elsewhere.  It uses book value, share price, sales per share, and cash per share to estimate a stock's \\"financial valuation\\"; shares outstanding, average daily volume, institutional investment, and volatility (beta) to estimate \\"liquidity\\"; and present share price together with the 52-week high and low to represent \\"scope for growth\\".  These three components are then combined to determine the overall valuation.<br />This approach appears to be heuristic rather than one grounded in classical financial valuation theory (as presented, for example, in Investment Valuation by Aswath Damodaran).  Harper's approach may be particularly useful in valuing companies that are not currently profitable but would be more convincing if he provided either an explanation of how the formula was developed or historical data that justifies its use.<br />Harper concludes by applying his formula to evaluate the investment potential of numerous biotech companies as of the date of his writing.  He stresses that this evaluation is only valid at that one point in time and will change with the rapidly changing technology and financial status of the companies.<br />Overall, Harper's book was interesting and very helpful in understanding the science of biotech.  I would caution against using his approach to allocate a major percentage of any portfolio to biotech stocks (which Harper does not advocate).  I don't mind an occasional small bet on a currently unprofitable company but prefer to invest primarily in companies (including some biotechs) with current and growing profits.<br />In addition to Damodaran's rather technical book cited above, a reader interested in this area might also consider Michael Murphy's Every Investor's Guide to High-Tech Stocks and Mutual Funds which covers biotech and other forms of technology from an investor's viewpoint.nvestment Valuation by Aswath Damodaran).  Harper's approach may be particularly useful in valuing companies that are not currently profitable but would be more convincing if he provided either an explanation of how the formula was developed or historical data that justifies its use.  <br />Harper concludes by applying his formula to evaluate the investment potential of numerous biotech companies as of the date of his writing.  He stresses that this evaluation is only valid at that one point in time and will change with the rapidly changing technology and financial status of the companies.<br />Overall, Harper's book was interesting and very helpful in understanding the science of biotech.  I would caution against using his approach to allocate a major percentage of any portfolio to biotech stocks (which Harper does not advocate).  I don't mind an occasional small bet on a currently unprofitable company but prefer to invest primarily in companies (including some biotechs) with current and growing profits.  <br />In addition to Damodaran's rather technical book cited above, a reader interested in this area might also consider Michael Murphy's Every Investor's Guide to High-Tech Stocks and Mutual Funds which covers biotech and other forms of technology from an investor's viewpoint.	2003-03-02
US	49630612	RLK17NHPMENDB	0300087608	946010739	A Century of Violence in Soviet Russia	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Present at the Destruction	Alexander Nikolayevich Yakovlev may be best known as the godfather of perestroika.  He was instrumental in formulating the concept of perestroika (restructuring), in persuading Gorbachev to implement perestroika, and in bringing Gorbachev back to perestroika when he vacillated, Hamlet-like, between his liberal and hard-line advisers in the late 1980s.  Yakovlev was, in a very real sense, along with Eduard Sheverdnadze, Gorbachev's political conscience.<br /><br />In A Century of Violence in Soviet Russia, Yakovlev presents the tragedy of Russia under Lenin and Stalin.  He examines in separate chapters how various constituents of the Soviet Union fared under Communism:  Political parties other than the Bolsheviks, the peasants, the intelligentsia, the clergy, the military, the numerous non-Russian nationalities, the Jews.  All were exploited, when possible, to further the Bolshevik hold on Russia, and executed, exiled, or enslaved when political exploitation was not possible.  Yakovlev holds Lenin and Stalin responsible for 60 million deaths.  These include peasants that starved as a direct result of the collectivization of agriculture and World War II deaths, many of which were a direct result of Stalin's purge of competent military officers on the eve of the war and the unwarranted trust he placed in the Nazi-Soviet non-aggression pact.  Some have questioned the legitimacy of attributing these deaths to Stalin.  Rather than debate that responsibility here, the reader is referred to Robert Conquest, The Harvest of Sorrow, and Richard Pipes, Russia Under the Bolshevik Regime.<br /><br />Yakovlev traces all of the totalitarian acts of terror associated with Stalin's rule to their beginnings under Lenin, demolishing the myth that Stalin somehow perverted the more humane party of Lenin. The book is a somber read, 200 plus pages documenting murders, torture, slave labor in the name of an ideology that is morally, intellectually, and (now, thankfully) financially bankrupt.	2003-02-25
US	49630612	R1Q2I9TPEKULVQ	0375704477	424265017	Property and Freedom	Books	5	19	21	N	N	Property and Freedom:  Historical Perspective	Richard Pipes is one of the leading academic authorities on Russian and Soviet history.  He starts this book by admitting that its subject matter is outside his area of special expertise.  Despite this discalimer, he has produced a useful and interesting work on the relationship between property rights and freedom.<br /><br />Pipes' approach draws on his expertise as a historian.  He describes the historical development of the idea of property rights with particular emphasis on the contrasting experiences of England and Russia.  He demonstrates that the development of political and economic freedom in England is directly linked to the early establishment of property rights in that country while the total lack of freedom in Russia (prior to 1991 and excluding the brief 1905-1917 period) is equally linked to the total lack of property rights there.<br />This book is not a complete answer to the very broad question of how property and freedom are related.  It does, however, make a valuable contribution from the historical perspective.  To more fully understand this question, I recommend the following:  For an economic perspective:  Mancur Olsen, Power and Prosperity; for a legal/social perspective, Hernando de Soto, The Mystery of Capital.  Together, these three books provide a fairly complete answer to the question.	2003-02-17
US	49630612	R1FWWIPV5ZM2ZB	0374279659	700699244	20:21 Vision: Twentieth-Century Lessons for the Twenty-first Century	Books	5	10	12	N	Y	Looking Forward / Looking Back	Bill Emmott, Editor of The Economist, has published his thoughts on the leading issues likely to confront the world over the 21st century. To provide an historical perspective, he attempts to look back over the last 100 years to identify the primary trends and issues likely to continue over the next 100 years. Overall, he gets it right and provides an interesting, thought-provoking analysis of our current situation.<br /><br />The book (following the format of The Economist) is divided into two sections, each of which focuses on one broad question. The first deals with international relations and focuses on whether America will continue in its role as benevolent world policeman. Emmott's thesis is that the US is the first world power whose goals are benevolent in the sense that it seeks to improve the conditions of other countries by promoting democracy and economic freedom. These goals, paradoxically, are likely to boost the political and economic power of other countries, reducing the relative power of the US. He then discusses America's role in the world as it relates to China, Japan, Europe, and terrorism.<br /><br />The second half of the book addresses the future of the world economic system and focuses on the current state and future of capitalism. Emmott identifies the primary complaints against capitalism: Unpopularity, instability, inequality within countries, inequality between countries, and environmental impacts. In each of these areas, he catalogs the common complaints and offers sound responses, based on the thesis that capitalism, like democracy, is the worst possible system except for all the others. He supports this thesis by examining these other systems and the misery they produced over the last century: Communism, fascism, Nazism, socialism, all of which share the attributes of centrally planned command economies. He concludes, \\"The liberal presumption in favor of the market, of capitalism and indeed of freedom itself, is driven by intellectual humility...\\". To fully appreciate this statement, read 20:21 Vision and Robert Conquest's Reflections on a Ravaged Century, which explains why these ideologies and the absolute certainty of their adherents were the cause of most of the last century's problems.humility...\\". To fully appreciate this statement, read 20:21 Vision and Robert Conquest's Reflections on a Ravaged Century, which explains why these ideologies and the absolute certainty of their adherents were the cause of most of the last century's problems.	2003-02-17
