US	49648554	R1FEDKUJ8HGG7N	0894806335	563008665	At Home with the French Classics	Books	1	1	36	N	N	THIS JUST CAN'T COMPETE. THERE ARE SO MANY BETTER ONES.	I bought this cookbook at this website because, although I've never heard of the author or the cookbook,  someone who did not think well of a cookbook I ordered at that time anyway (The French Culinary Insititue's Salute to Healthy Cooking), recommended this one. At the time that I bought both of these books , I had just decided to try to do something about the fact that I'd like to be a better cook and that I'd  like to be able to cook at least a few  French dishes decently. So, even if I'd never heard of the author of this rather old book (and this does matter, this was written in the 1970's and he talks about the impossibiity of the reader's being able to get BEEF bones at the supermarket in order to make stock when the preferred bones for this kind of stock are VEAL bones and when they are always available in more than one of the supermarkets  where I live and shop no matter what was the case generally in this country when this book was written), I decided to order it too. I found this book to be of limited usefulness as a cookbook. From his advice on buying pots and pans (the French Culinary Insitute uses and recommends All Clad, and non-stick at that, at least as to fry pans and saut pans, and that is what I have and I am truly glad that I do), etc., to his recipe for chocolate mousse/cake (understanding as I did from the description that this darned thing had something to do with BOTH mousse and cake and not wanting to have a recipe that claimed to be for both somehow, I did not care HOW, I confess I did not read it because the  very idea alienated me enough so that I decided not to. I'm not sorry I didn't. ) this book contains advice and recipes that you may do better without or that are just so much better in other books available at Amazon,that it's just not worth it. And  it may steer you wrong. I must say that all I am still trying to do is learn to make decent food that includes at least some French cuisine, and I am not advanced, but I do NOT think that people who do not think of themselves as being, and who are not, in fact, very advanced, should buy this book INSTEAD OF BETTER books on the subject.  I thought this might help me a lot did as the result of such suggestions. It did not.  What did help  which I recommend are: Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home, The French Culinary Institute's Salute to Healthy Cooking and Le Cordon Bleu Complete Cooking Techniques, French Provicincial Cooking by Elizabeth David and Paris Boulangerie-Ptisserie by Linda Dannenberg, as well as The Fannie Farmer Cookbook by Marion Cunningham, which are available from this website (and,  don't take the advice of anyone who tells you not to START with them, but to start with this one. It isn't that they're perfect, it is that they're so much better), and a three volume set, Larousse gastronomique, I bought from Amazon.fr. I recommend these over this one.	2001-04-18
US	49648554	R3HIKGHU9W6N8A	0674375017	133337798	Harvard Dictionary of Music, 2nd Revised and Enlarged Edition	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Excellent resource but a new, revised edition is needed.	As someone who knows extemely little about classical music who wants to know more, I bought this book some time ago and, it has been quite helpful. However, it is also true that although this the twenty first printing was in 1997, this, the Revised Edition was copyrighted in 1972 by Willi Apel (and previous copyright dates of the book were  1944 and 1969 by the President and Fellows of Harvard College). This Second Edition undoubtely needs to be revised. Since I have had it, I have noticed only a of couple areas in which I think it needs to be changed (and it has been extremely helpful as to others). Firstly,  The entry on &quot;Ballet&quot; on pages 73-76. On page 75 this book still says &quot;There is still much disagreement about the quality of the ballet in the Soviet Union&quot; and proceeds with a brief paragraph about ballets performed and produced there. Since it not only is the Soviet Union not the Soviet Union any more, and since other things have changed as well since Willi Apel's page 75, there really ought to be revisions in this book reflecting that. Secondly, as to the entry &quot;Voices-ranges&quot; on page 920, this book says, &quot;Human voices are usually divided into six ranges: three female voices, soprano, mezzo-soprano and contralto, and three male voices, tenor, baritone and bass&quot; and subsquesntly gives subcategories of these, but omits countertenor entirely from this entry which it should not. It isn't that countertenor can't be located in this book. It is not with the rest of the voice types where it belongs, in my opinon. When I found it what it said was &quot;OLD (CAPS MINE) name for (male) alto, derived from CONTRATENOR ALTUS [See Contratenor] which I did on page 204 which said in part, that it explains,  that four part writing and the consequent separation of ranges resulted in a renaming so that there existed contratenor altus (alto) and contrateor bassus (bass) which, the book says, explains the name alto &quot;for a part that, from a modern point of view, can hardly be considered 'high', as well as countertenor for the male alto&quot;. This entry sounds to me like it has relegated countertenors, who are alive and performing and recording now, to history. In my opinion the term countertenor should be included in the entry &quot;Voices-ranges&quot; with the rest of the male and female voice types, so they are all together where they belong. This entry also refers the reader to the word alto page on page 31, which states of the male alto  &quot;....(2) Originally the alto was a high male voice....this type of voice, also known as countertenor, was cultivated especially in England, where the church music of the 16th and 17th centuries definitely implies its use.&quot; What this entry and these entires taken together also imply is that countertenors, male altos as such, are history since they are not included in the entry &quot;Voices-ranges&quot; as extant in the world which is to say living now , performing now, and recording now. Saying that this voice type (p. 31) was cultivated in England where the church music of the 16th and 17th centuries implies its use says nothing to me about the use of this voice type in the latter half of the 20th cantury and in the 21st century.   I am very new to classical music and I am living proof that it doesn't require a lot to know that t here are countertenors : Charles Brett, countertenor,  one of the male soloists ( the soloists on this CD which is of Hndel's Messiah are: one soprano, one mezzo-soprano, the aforementioned countertenor, one tenor, one bass, and one boy soprano) singing as recorded on this exceptional recording of this 18th century work conducted by John Eliot Gardiner is one.  I also have at the present time one recording each of Dunstable's Motets and The Old Hall Manuscript by The Hilliard ensemble (two countertenors, three tenors, two baritones) which I been able to listen to as much as I'd like to, but have enjoyed nevertheless. Thisbook needs to be revised as to this subject matter and with a view to enabling readers to become aware of all of the voice types that there are as well as what they capable in the appropriate place which is in the same place. Additionally, since there have been recordings of works on period instruments for more than a few years, it would help if the differences between, for example, a period violin and modern violin were addressed in this book and they are not. As someone who knows little about this I hope that, for others( I am not in a position to buy a new edition of this book, if ever there will be one), there will be a revised edition without these problems.  Highly recommended otherwise , however, at this time.	2001-04-05
US	49648554	R1PCA1JNWZEYJX	0952484803	251039893	Dictionary of Classical Ballet Terminology	Books	5	5	7	N	N	A helpful resource, at the very least.	I've had this book for only a short period of time and have found it to be helpful thus far in a ways that suggest to me that I am going to find it to be increasingly helpful over time. For those who have been interested in classical ballet or who are just becoming interested, as well as those who are possessed of at least some, if not considerable, knowledge of it, including actual training and experience as ballet dancers, it may be very helpful, at least, because it appears to be quite comprehnsive (as the dictionary that it is, with 92 pages of definitions and/or descriptions, including cross-references, but no photographs or illustrations). I am not one of those in the latter category. I am an an adult who is am simply and only interested in classical ballet, and I  would like to know more about it at the present time. I would like to say, however, that because I have already benefitted thus far from having had it in ways I did not foresee, I expect to continue to benefit from having bought the Royal Academey of Dancing's Dictionary of Classical Ballet Terminology , since I have already done so. I recommend it, therefore, to anyone who is interested in it.	2001-04-05
US	49648554	R1J6WMOWZ0RO7D	014046445X	421161318	Basic Ballet: The Steps Defined (Penguin Handbooks)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	A very nice book; I would want to know more about it.	This book, which has 66  black and white photographs as illustrations, usually two, three or four on a page and a different number of them, occasionally including one only, on the opposite page, facing, should be helpful to all those who are interested in the ballet, whether children, young people, or adults, whether because they might like to study it, are studying it, or are just interested in learning more about it to increase their own knowledge  and  enjoyment of it  as interested parties at live performances, etc. , for example. It is a nice place to start, and the photographs are very helpful.  Basic Ballet would also make a very nice present for a young person who is interested.	2001-03-29
US	49648554	R1PZPS7IVG6K6Y	0517570327	295436264	Larousse Gastronomique	Books	2	19	23	N	N	Are you sure this is the one for you???	I think that prospective purchasers of this book should be aware that a three volume Larousse Gastronomique exists and that it is available at Amazon.fr., and, if they would be interested in that one over this one,  perhaps they should look into it before buying this one.  That set, however, costs.	2001-03-06
US	49648554	R25P6U9J7PKCM0	0517592215	233414309	Paris Boulangerie-Patisserie: Recipes from Thirteen Outstanding French Bakeries	Books	4	2	20	N	N	A very well put together and beautifully presented book	This is another of my rewiews which is a little premature at the  present time because although I have had this beautiful book for quite a while, I have not yet made any of the recipes in it. As someone who did not, until recently, aspire to baking any pastries, pies or cakes, whatsoever, who has, neverthless, changed her mind in that she has decided that she wants to learn to bake just a few , I have an opinion about the possible suggestions of some of the other reviewers as to this book's requiring a degree of skill on the part of the cook, in baking. I really have no experience in baking, although some, of course, in cooking not-very- difficult, meals. However, what I did not expect of this author is some attention to what you need, as to the basic equipment that should get you started with what you  want to start with (along with other books I have, ranging from The Fannie Farmer Cookbook by Marion Cunningham to The Cordon Bleu Complete Cooking Techniques, both available at this site and  worth it as well) and clearly presented enough recipes, from the ingredients to the actual making of the things you want to make for me to decide to give it a go.  There are two things I'd like to start with, which are not necessarily logical pastries for someone like me, with no baking experience, to begin with,  but which I feel I can manage with her help.  I know, I know, I should at least wait until this summer and try Marion Cunningham's deep dish apple pie  (with a slice of cheddar cheese on top). However, I can't, so MY first order of business is going to be Linda Dannenberg's Croissants (yes 'plain' because I am going to stuff them with my kind of cooked filling-and no it isn't melted cheese). Despite the fact that Au Bon Pain, here in Westchester, makes delicious plain croissants, I have vowed make them myself, Linda Dannenberg's way, with my preferred stuffing. I would like to say that it is, in part, this author's presentation, as well as the other cookbooks I just referred to , that helped me to decide to try this at this point, regardless of what any naysayers might have suggested. That said, it may not be always that easy for everone interested in some of these recipes to buy all of the ingredients required where they usually shop for food. I was not able to find the cake flour she says one needs for croissants, in two local supermarkets, but this author gives, in the back of the book, a list of companies with their addresses, from which certain items can be ordered, and I was able to order it from a manufacturer in this country  (who is apparently well known and does sell some more, perhaps more commonly used, kinds of flour in my local supermarkets, and I have it  here. So if you think there are recipes you are interested in in this book that might call for ingredients that may not be so easy for you to obtain where you live, you should be aware that her book does provide help (and of course there's the internet). Also, although this book is full of wonderful photographs of delicious looking pastries I may try someday, it is also true that in the interest of keeping fit, including  not becoming overweight at all (which I feel would be a horrible choice for me to make), I have concluded that there is only so much of the kind of food in this book that I can allow myself in a given period of time, which means that I am only going to mention one more pastry (-of which there is a truly scrumptious looking full page color photograph, for one to try to approximate as best one can). It is called Tarte au Pommes Rissols, and is made with sauted apples, a cream filling, and puff pastry  (While it will not displace the deep dish apple pie I expect to bake later this year, it looks so appetizing that I don't see how I can NOT try to bake it soon, even if the result will be, without doubt, anything but expert.  I have perused this book for some time and on that basis, as well os the above, I very much recommend it.  However, as  beautiful as it is for a cookbook, I really don't think it belongs on anyone's coffee table (and I may not be the only person who is just not the type to put a cookbook, or indeed any large book, on a coffee table). This book is worth it AS THE COOKBOOK THAT IT IS  and belongs in the kitchen!! I am very glad that I found it at this website and have it.	2001-03-04
US	49648554	RRW4FDQ5RMISK	0141181532	248695390	French Provincial Cooking (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	13	35	N	N	Authentic Cooking of the French Provinces	I have little that is critical to say about this book: I bought it with certain purposes in mind (to find a few authentic recipes for certain classic French dishes such as Coq au Vin which I first tasted in Manhattan in New York at a young age) and to find a few new ones for French HOME cooking (and not whatever is 'nouvelle cuisine,at that, about which I have only read, in any case),  and it has more than  fulfilled them. The recipe for Coq au Vin de Bourgogne (which I have yet to prepare but have read carefully and will be making before long), for example, is not just presented in a cut and dried fashion, but the instructions for what Elizbeth David calls &quot;A typical Burgundian recipe, from the Cloche d'Or in Dijon&quot;, are given and then discussed by the author as to ways of proceeding, given the difficulties that she has noted, in practice, in making it. (In the case of this recipe  she does not just say in her list of ingredients that is made with red wine, but specifies a sound red Burgundy, Beaujolais, or Macon. Since I had never made it, and had viewed making it with some trepidation, I appreciated the fact that not only has she included an obviously excellent recipe for it,  but she has, in the course of her presentation and discussion, persuaded me that, even though I know I can't make it adequately well, perhaps if I pay attention to what she writes in this cookbook, and I  just follow the(this) recipe(s), more or less, what results may be food which will be (just, at least?) good enough. Of course I was interested in her recipe for Boeuf &agrave; la Bourguiginone (which is something which, as of this time, I have yet to make, but had more than planned on cooking at this time, in that I had prepared it to the point at which it could be stored to be completed later, which became necessary, since I got into a car accident recently, and am still recovering from some trauma, so this wonderful dish has to wait until I am truly fine), which is is worth reading and paying attention to, although of that, I have others which are not to be dismissed either. A further remark or two. This cookbook has so many interesting recipes that I haven't had the time to read all that many of them (nor have I owned it that long). One section, not to be overlooked entirely, is on the preparation of vegetables, and I was grateful to read there not only a recipe or two for the lowly leek without its necessarily being the leek in leek and potato soup, or the same in just leek soup, but, the leek as, yes, a vegetable, in good standing, WITHOUT her calling it  &quot;the asparagus of the poor&quot;!! Finally, there is a recipe for Escargots farcis for which I cannot find the 'ingredients' for in my area . The 'ingredients&quot; I  am referring to are BOTH the shells and the snails which were sold separately in a local chain supermarket in my neighborhood, years ago, on the upper East side of Manhattan. Unfortunately that supermarket is no longer there. I am glad that the recipe for Escargots is included in David's French Provincial Cooking (the cooking of the various regions and provinces of France, not just Provence, is discussed in her wonderful introduction, followed the recipes from the same), since I hope to find them here at a later date. This cookbook, then, is quite a find for me, and it will continue to be in times to come. To some extent this review is premature because I have not actually made, or even read, all that I would like to of her recipes yet, but it seems to be that time anyway, which means that already this has proved to be a wonderfully helpful cookbook (if , for example, you know how to make mayonnaise but haven't done so for a while, and need help, and even calming, along the way, what she has to say in this cookbook is well worth reading and may even help you with all of that), which I highly recommend.	2001-03-03
US	49648554	RSUO9YAWHQVNX	0375404317	436983790	Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home	Books	4	2	19	N	N	One nice place to start with French cooking.	I have just a few things to say about this book. I bought it because Julia and Jacques are such acknowleged experts at French cooking which is something that I have wanted to learn to do a little bit of, for some time. And, this IS a good book to start with, if that is what you are interested in, but if you are not interested in an American style hamburger because you think you know how to make one, are even less interested in a chicken pot pie (FULL COLOR PHOTOGRAPH!!!) because you regard them as lethal and are certain that even THEIR recipe for it COULDN&quot;T do enough to save,  are not interested in Julia's recipe for American potato salad, and mistrust the very idea of her &quot;deconstructed&quot; turkey because you when YOU roast a turkey, you roast it WHOLE, be prepared to ignore these because they ARE here!  However, that is by no means all that is in this cookbook and there is enough helpful advice (how to save your  hollandaise, also mayonnaise) and pages and pages of good recipes  (Beef Bourguignon, Bouillbaisse, French Onion Soup, etc. for those of us who just want to learn to make these basics) as well as many others that I haven't had time to read yet, so if you are interested in this, their book is more than a little helpful and is, I think, worth it. However, in response to whoever called it a a book for the coffee table-there may not exist a cookbook that really belongs on anyone's coffee table and theirs is no exception. It IS a good cookbook, however, and I do recommend it.	2001-03-03
US	49648554	R3TCPMLTNEF8S4	0375404317	436983790	Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home	Books	4	7	38	N	N	An antidote to the food faddists who play on our fears!!	I have to add to what I wrote earlier although I do not expect it to be posted because I am going to say what I feel more that I ought to, perhaps. It is about Julia. She eats the dark meat of chicken, etc. because she LIKES IT BETTER  (even though it is supposed to be higher in saturated fat than the white meat and saturated fat is supposed to lead to high cholesterol which is supposed to cause heart attacks, strokes, etc.-she  how much fat the dark meat has after ot had been cooked adequately (i.e. how much fat it really contains-EVEN IF IT IS higher in fat than  white meat), she does NOT remove the SKIN from chicken, turkey, etc. for the SAME reason,  she uses BUTTER when she cooks, and she cooks with (as does Jacques) WINE and she DRINKS IT with her meals, too. She says, furthermore, that she eats RED MEAT several times a week because she WANTS to!!!!!I saw both of them, together and separately, on television, a few times last year, before their show(s) went off the air, and it IS important to understand that they WERE talking about managing one's consumption of butter, etc. well. Now Julia Child is in her eighties and appears to be HEALTHY, to say the least!! Only last summer I was reading a book by an American health food guru who is a doctor, another by a British nutritionist, and other nutritional articles availble to the public free at various websites, and trying, to understand and follow all this advice which was very depressing, among other things.  A lot of it consisted of implied or stated DON'Ts (even if you're in good health): don't eat red meat because it causes..., don't eat the dark meat of poultry because IT causes..., don't eat the skin, even of FISH, because IT TOO causes..., DON'T EAT MEAT  because NOW IT CAUSES..., BECOME A PESCO-VEGEARIAN (but avoid shellfish, especially lobsters, because THEY are CONTAMINATED with TOXINS) and YOU'LL LIVE LONGER (HOW? HOW? HOW? How will I longer live?), NO, JUST BECOME A VEGETARIAN, and for God's sake do NOTconsume ALCOHOL because it MAY CAUSE...WHAT? WHAT?.....LIFE??? as part of a healthy, normal diet, COULD THESE THINGS CAUSE, AS IN MAINTAIN, L-I-F-E???!! I think so. Julia's and Jacques's cookbook, whatever it shortcomings, and it does have them in that it's more &quot;American&quot; than I would have liked, is an antidote to such naysayers and so it has been, and will continue to be, welcome in my kitchen. They both have my thanks.	2001-03-03
US	49648554	R2NS3H9E0FI3IH	0879739762	701055253	Catechism of the Catholic Church, 2nd Edition	Books	5	5	12	N	N	Of course an infinite number of stars.	This most recent edition of The Catechism of The Catholic Church has been and certainly will continue to be an absloutely invaluable and indispensible resource for me  as a baptised and confirmed Catholic in the process of returning to the Church. To clear up a possible misconception that could result form a review I read here (which has, I think, been addressed by another reviewer as well, but I want to say this too) &quot;This Catechism aims at presenting an organic synthesis of the essential and fundamental contents of Catholic Doctrine, as regards both faith and morals, in the light of the Second Vatican Council and the Church Tradition&quot;(Prologue, p.9). And again on page 11 of the Prologue, &quot;This catechism os conceived as an organic presentation of the Catholic faith in its entirety.&quot; Aside from thatm I'd like to add that, although the Glossary, as has been correctly pointed out here &quot;is faithful to the language of the text of the Catechism, it does not participate in the approval of the text of the Catechism given in the Apostolic Constitution Fidei depositum of Pope John Paul II&quot; although it &quot;is an additional instrument by which readers may find assistance in their use of the Catechism itself&quot; (p.864),  its definition of FAITH  is &quot; Both a gift of God and a human act by which the believer gives personal adhereence to God who invites his response, and freely assents to the whole truth that God has revealed. It is this revelation of God which the Churh proposes` for our belief and which we profess in the Creed, celebrate in the sacraments, live by right conduct that fulfills the twofold commandment of charity (as specified in the ten commandments), and respond to in our prayer of faith. FAITH IS BOTH A THEOLOGICAL VIRTUE GIVEN BY GOD, AND AN OBLIGATION WHICH FLOWS FROM THE FIRST COMMANDMENT OF GOD (caps mine-p. 879, however the reader of this definition in the Glossary is referred to specific sections of the Catechism: 26,142, 150, 1814, and the one I found especially helpful-2087- which says in part, &quot; St. Paul speaks of 'the obediance of faith &quot; as our first obligation. he shows that 'ignorance of God' is the principle and explanation of all moral deviations. Our duty is to toward God is to believe in him and to bear witness to him...The first commandment requires us to nourish and protect our faith with prudence and vigilence, and to reject everything that is opposed to it. The are various ways of sinning aginst faith, p. 506 ). Also, in the text of the Catechism under The Natural Moral Law &quot; The natural law, present in the heart of each man and established by reason is univeral in its precepts and its authority extends to all men. It expresses the dignity of the person and determines the basis for his fundamental rights and duties:             For there is a true law: right reason. It is in conformity with nature, is diffused among all men, and is immutable and eternal; its orders summon to duty; its prohibitions turn away from offense....To replace it with contrary law is a sacrilege; failure to apply even one of its provisions is forbidden; no one can abrogate it entirely.&quot;             I do not think that any baptised Catholic should be without this book, nor should anyone else who is interested either. I am glad this it is available at this site, and in paperback, and that I was able to find it here and buy it.	2000-12-12
US	49648554	R2PQ03454DN3WR	0812933079	442648535	American Heart Association Around the World Cookbook: Low-Fat Recipes with International Flavor	Books	3	5	48	N	N	Good if you know what you're doing?	A comment on my earlier review: I was going to use the author's recipe for paella until I read it more carefully and then I found that most of it went against the grain so I didn't. I understand that recipes for paella abound and that hers may be to other people's taste but it wasn't to mine. In the name of fat reduction she suggests that if the reader cannot get Spanish chorizo, but only Mexican chorizo, the reader use &quot;light smoked sausage&quot; (p. 154) because Mexican chorizo is &quot;swimming in fat&quot; (p. 144). While it is true that chorizo is quite high in fat, there is only so much of it in any particular serving and it is absolutely indispensable. Paella would just not be paella without it! Furthermore, she uses 2 boneless, skinless chicken breast halves and 1/2 pound boneless pork loin chops for 8 servings, in addition to 1/2 pound large shrimp. 8 fresh clams, 8 fresh mussles (understand that this is 1/4 chicken breast half, 1 oz. of shrimp, 1 mussel and 1 clam per serving and 1 oz. pork chops), and artichoke hearts, etc. (p. 144-145), and she says to cut the chicken and the pork into CUBES! While this may be fine for some, I could not do it this way. I omitted the pork entirely, and used what I prefer: bone-in  chicken thighs with skin (I would use 1 per serving)), and I left them whole. Also, I omitted the artichoke hearts which I didn't think would work well enough, and I used more saffron than she says is necessary and no matter what recipe you use, I suggest that you use saffron to taste. Also, I would not (although one could) cook the chorizo in the stockpot with the rice-I panfry it. If the way I make it increases the fat content to some extent over the way she does it (her recipe has 7 grams of Total Fat and 2 grams of Saturated Fat per serving-but at 5' 3 1/2 inches tall, I know from  the website of Dr. C. Everett Koop that I can have 50 grams of fat per day, so I don't know what the fuss is about), I think that that is vastly preferable,especially since one does not have paella every day. I am wondering what to do about the other recipes in the book about which I know nothing...	2000-12-09
US	49648554	RFL8AVXYE69C9	0553568817	590926970	The Fannie Farmer Cookbook: A Tradition of Good Cooking for a New Generation of Cooks	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Really terrific all around cookbook! Indispensable!	I've had this most recent edition of the Fannie Farmer Cookbook for just a few months now and I've only just begun to get into it, but I have read  some of the recipes I haven't yet tried, and I think it deserves 5 stars. It is good to see that she has a recipe for standing rib roast beef WITH Yorkshire pudding (or popovers, if you prefer) because I  will make it as soon as I can. I just did try the recipe for Paella and it was delicious. To her credit, Marion Cunnigham does not tell the reader to remove the CASING from the chorizo (although there IS at least one brand on the market that would require this because the so-called casing is plastic, so I recommend that if you are going to make this dish, you read the package directions on the chorizo carefully and make sure that the casing DOESN'T have to be removed and that it is NOT plastic). My only criticism of the recipe for paella is that it doesn't include mussels, which I add anyway. I didn't think I was ever going to be able to make beef stroganoff again because of the amount of fat  and the number of calores in the sour cream ( I had high cholestrol and need to watch my weight), but having tried the relatively new fat free sour cream that is now on the market (to me it tastes every bit as good as full fat sour cream)  which  is low enough in calories for me to have, I expect to be having it again in the not too distant future, complete with the brown rice that she suggests serving it over. There are, in general, so many wonderful recipes in this cookbook that one can always be trying something new, as well as preparing  something old and familiar with excellent results. I think it would be impossible to tire of this cookbook or ever be  finished with it. There are a lot of seemingly, and undoubtedly not just seemingly, wonderful, fish and seafood recipes-too many to mention. (And she tells the reader all about buying and preparing soft shell crab, for example). One does come to mind that I am planning to tryvery soon: salmon with asparagus (both cooked in a little butter). Simple and healthful. Others I've read that I think are more than worth a try include lobster thermidor, chicken tetrazzini, and sweetbreads. Also very helpful is a section on microwaving foods complete with recipes that she has tested and found to work well. One  very minor critcism-there seems to me to be something a little strange about her recipe(s) for Hungarian goulash. Both of them call for beef round (the first in cubes and the second?). The first one calls for plenty of beef broth, plus potatoes, and paprika and no sour cream. The second has no beef broth, no potatoes, and only drained, canned tomatoes, plus onions and  paprika and is served over noodles WITH sour cream. If I were going to make Hungarian goulash I would make the first recipe only AND serve it WITH sour cream (and a lot more paprika than she says it needs). However, this is such a good cookbook that that is hardly worth mentioning. There are also  13 plus pages in the back of the book listing the calorie, cholesterol, fat, protein and carbohydrate content of certain foods and recipes so that you can take your trusty calculator and use it to maintain your healthy, balanced diet. Highly recommended. If I could have only  one cookbook, this one would be it. I wouldn't be without it for anything.	2000-12-09
US	49648554	R3RQUV54N0L3TZ	0440218616	956346567	American Heritage Dictionary: Third Edition	Books	2	10	11	N	N	I'm sure the most recent hardcover is much much better.	In retrospect, I should have gotten the most recent edition of this dictionary in hardcover instead of the paperback because it isn't complete enough. It is probable that I will do so at a later date. I recommend that anyone considering purchasing either who can afford the hardcover spend on it instead of on this, because I think this one may well be sure to disappoint.	2000-12-06
US	49648554	RQSWTCOGJDLG3	0023617705	511825361	Experiences in Life Science: A Laboratory Guide	Books	1	0	4	N	N	Read this review before buying &quot;Problem Solving&quot;	I took the author's course in &quot;Biology for Non-Majors&quot; at a college/university in the northeastern United States where he was a tenured full professor and this was our laboratory workbook. As to his course generally, in areas that have not changed (I had gone back to college to complete my B.A. after some time had elapsed since my high school and original college years) I felt that I had had better biology in high school. One area stands out in particular: in high school I had meiosis and mitosis-in humans- (the former is the process in  by which chromosomes divide in  the developing gametes with the result that each sperm and unfertilized ovum has half of the chomosomes for each trait from, each parent having two-so that when the the human ovum is fertilized, the resulting zygote has a complete set of chromosomes, half from each parent, the latter is the process by which chromosomes are reproduced in the body's cells which enables cells to reproduce themselves) he only taught meiosis. This is important because the final lecture and the finale of his course was dedicated to the proposition that abortion is necessary because while birth can be good it can also be terrible, as in the case of (horrible) hereditary disease. He was able to give the name of a horrible hereditary disease and enumerate it's horrors, the details of which I do not remember, but I did not like the fact that somehow he had failed to teach anything whatsoever about meoisis in humans which I attributed to a fundamental psychological lack on his part ( have a B.A., and only a B.A., in Psychology from the Univerisity where he taught). I thought and still think that in not teaching about this process and result in all of its beauty and magnificence, he failed the students taking the course, and I think his treatment of this subject matter was inadequate therefore. It is even possible that there might be fewer abortions resulting from unwanted pregnancies if students were taught about thissuject matter WELL. That he appeared to me to be incapable of doing at that time and I'm sure he hasn't changed. I see that his lab book (and I assume it was the same one we all had) is out of print and I think that is as it should be, unless at least one correction was made. There was only one exercise involving genetics, and I do not rememember what the assignment was except that we had to read a little of his material on the genes and answer a simple ques- tion or two. It seems to me that the questions had to do with the hypothetical eye color of the offspring of a hypothetical blue eye horse and a brown eye horse. Whatever he wrote in this lab book about brown eyes being dominant characteristics and blue eyes being recessive somehow didn't get translated into the terms of his exercise  because instead of a B to represent the dominant characteristic from the brown eyed parent and a b to represent the recessive characteristic of blue eyes possibly in the brown eyed parent and definitely in the blue eyed parent (the following combinations would be possible:  Bb, and bb- the first would result in brown eyed offspring, depending on the genotype of each parent, the second would result in a blue eye offspring but would only occur if the brown eyed parent carried a recessive gene for blue eyes), he had just ONE B or possible ( I don't remember but there should have been TWO for each parent, NOT one) for each parent. I remember complaining the  woman professor who ( I was glad) ran the lab that I did not know how to proceed with the excercise and why. She told me that I would be more correct.  The upshot was that I filled in the blanks and completed it (and the course) with a passing grade. However, I now see that he has written an expensive textbook, and since I think his treatment of these subject matters was inadequate, I can't but wonder about the quality of his text. Also, I do not know if he is still teaching or not, however if anyone reading this review is considering taking a course in which his text is the required text  and/or a course which he teaches himself, I would suggest that you seriously consider the alternatives. That he may have written a book about drug use, does not make his treatment of these vital and important areas good enough. I think  there's got to be better available in biology texts and courses than his (We also had to read The Naked Ape by Desomond Morris which I do not wish on anyone either, that author managed to treat violent conflict-mostly between  animals, I believe, without dealing with the question of the rightness and wrongness on the side(s) of the parties to begin with in conflict between and among humans -I seem to remember something about losing animals appeasing winning animals and something about that author's automatically being obsequious to a policeman when stopped for a possible violation of the traffic laws). I recommend that you try to do better if you possibly can.	2000-12-05
US	49648554	R3D6T70F79Q1H3	0023620501	452684365	Problem Solving in Biology: A Laboratory Workbook (3rd Edition)	Books	1	0	5	N	N	See my review of his lab book first-you can do better!	I have not read this book and I'm not going to. I took a full year's undergraduate course called &quot;Biology for Nonmajors&quot; from him, years ago, and while we did not have this book, we did have his laboratory workbook entitled &quot;Experiences in Biology: A Laboratory Guide&quot; which I'm happy to see is out of print because I din't think that that book was good enough anymore than his lectures were. I have touched on a couple of the reasons why I think anyone reading this review who is contamplating taking a course for which this is the required text and/or a course taught by him,  if he is still teaching, should seriously consider the alternatives and really try to do better in my review of his lab book which I did have ( I do have a B.A. from the university where he was teaching at the time).  I suggest you read it before buying this book too. This can't be good enough.	2000-12-05
US	49648554	R2SNBCOJ2YY1JG	0764560425	9779498	Computers Simplified (3-D Visual Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	I can't imagine a better introduction: a must-have!	I really do owe the author of this book, as well as the book salesperson who included this book, without my asking, with two other books on computers which I had asked be held for me at a local bookstore for me ( all three of which I picked up later), many thanks, because I did not know that I needed this book and I absolutley did. At the time I was thinking of buying a computer for the fist time, knowing very little about computers at all, and this book provided me with  information that I absolutey needed in order to make an informed choice about what kind of computer to buy. I am very happy with my purchase and don't know what I would have done without this book. The book provides a good overview of computers including hardware and software, how computers work, bytes, and types of computer systems(PC-personal computer, Macintosh, mainframe, set-top box) and then, using very helpful graphics-a typical computer, as well as operating systms, 9 pages on the Macintosh, plus a very nice introductions to the internet and web,including what the internet offers, e-mail, getting connected, web browser, multimedia on the web, web portal, children on the web, web pages and shopping, ), as well as buying a computer (considerations such as cost, Brand-name and clone,and after sale-service), upgrade(condsiderations such as cost and effective upgrades), mouse, keyboard, input and output, printer (ink-jet and laser),modem, processing ( memory-memory size, program requirements, memory chips, virtual memory,ROM and CPU, Memory Cache and Bus).  If you are thinking of buying a computer, especally if you are new to computers, but even if you are not, I really can't recommend this book enough to help you in making your decision. The edition of this book that I have is the Fourth Edition  1998 and it only goes up to the Windows 98 operating system and Windows NT in Windows and Mac OS 8 in Macintosh (UNIX is also covered, as is MS-DOS), however.  It's time for a new edition.	2000-12-02
US	49648554	R3O0BTFABKD5GR	0812933079	442648535	American Heart Association Around the World Cookbook: Low-Fat Recipes with International Flavor	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Terrific cookbook with healthful recipes!	This cookbook is divided into sections each with recipes from soups to salads, entrees and desserts from a different international cuisine (French, German, Hispanic, Italian, Middle Eastern, etc.) complete with nutritional analysis for each recipe so that the reader can see just how many calories, protein,  carbohydrates. cholesterol, sodium and total fat (broken down into saturated, polyunsaturated, and monounsatured) all expressed in grams or milligrams per serving, except calories, and use his calculator to compute the total number of calories and/or fat grams  per meal, if he needs to. There are mouthwatering color photographs of some of the recipes grouped together in two different parts  the book. Last recipe  I tried was for  the Turkey Rolls with Prosciutto and Cheese (Italian). Because it is quite high in calories (408 per serving) I omitted some of the ingredients (flour, bread crumbs, egg substitute and bread crumbs). I liked it (although I didn't know what I was missing because I'd never had it/made it before) The author is good enough to say that it is traditonally made with chicken breasts so if you want to make it with them, you can do that too. Next on my list that looks beautiful-Chicken with Forty Colves of Garlic (French) and their Paella (Hispanic). Also Chicken Piccata (Italian),Aegean baked Fish (Greek) and Couscous with Lamb Stew (Middle Eastern). Highly recommended. Wouldn't want to be without it.	2000-11-29
US	49648554	RV6RR70UD4AU0	006273346X	406827038	The Essential Guide to Nutrition and the Foods We Eat (Harper Resource Book)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Highly recommended ! An excellent resource!	Together with a calculator,  I found and find this book to be absolutely indispensable in putting together and maintaining a healthy balanced diet, getting all the necessary nutrients, maintaining my weight and limiting as much as possible my intake of saturated (bad-cholesterol raising, and therefore possibly lethal as possibly heart attack/atherosclerosis/heart disease causing, if consumed in excess) fat at this time (after my cholesterol was determined by my doctor to be too high and I was advised by him to change my eating habits and improve my nutrition generally). In the beginning of the book is a short introductory chapter in which the basics of a healthy balanced diet are briefly discussed together with a graphic representation of the FDA's FOOD PYRAMID GUIDE and discussion of it, including what constitutes a portion and how many portions of the various kinds of foods comprising the pyramid one should have daily generally for one's sex, age range and activity level. One thing the author said that I liked very much and which helps me is that if one doesn't eat as healthily as one should one day, there is always the next day in which to improve. This book is the only resource of its kind which I have which lists Total Fat in grams AND SATURATED FAT IN GRAMS. I appreciate the fact that this information is included and that it is presented in this way (and not just as a percentage of the Total in the case of Saturated Fat) as this makes it as easy as possible for me to process quicky and simply. It continues to be particularly helpful to me in limiting my consumption of total fat, in general, and saturated fat, in particular,  which as I said above is someting that I have been told need to do on an ongoing basis and which I do try to do. It lists a wide variety of foods and nutritional information in a format that makes it possible for an unusually large number of them to be included without their taking up a great deal of space. This makes it paricularly helpful to me in making healthy choices - getting enough of the nutrients I need without too much of anything I should not have too much of, and exercising portion control. Highly highly recommeded.I wouldn't want to be without it and I continue to refer to it for necessary nutritional information on an ongoing basis. The author is highly qualfied and has done an excellent job.	2000-11-29
US	49648554	R2Q8L65MT549A9	0440225639	852299895	The Complete Book of Food Counts- 5th Edition	Books	5	157	165	N	N	Indispensable resource. Wouldn't want to be without it.	Together with a calculator, this book is  indispensable in monitoring one's intake of the major macronutrients, etc. I first heard of it at the website of Dr. C. Everett Koop  after learning  how many grams of protein, carbohydrates, fat and fiber I should have every day for my age, height, sex, frame size and activity level, and I am glad that I was able to find it on this website and buy it.  Despite the fact that under Fat only the Total number of grams of fat for each food item is listed rather than this as well as the number of grams of saturated (bad--cholesterol-raising) and unsaturated fat which is information I need from time to time, it gets five stars because it is so comprehensive and well organized. Not only does it list  many unprocessed foods, but also many packaged and processed foods as well as fast foods, and its size and format enable the reader to find out what he need to know quickly and easily (and just about anywhere that he happens to be). Because I had had high cholesterol and need to watch my intake of saturated fat as well as total fat, I did buy another book here which does provide that information, The Food Bible by Judith Wills which I also recommend if you  can buy two on this subject. However, I wouldn't want to be without this one especially since it is so complete and includes such a wide variety of foods in such a user friendly manner. It is been especially  helpful to me in keeping my weight under control ( I am female, 5' 3 1/2&quot; tall and I am just plain unhappy if I weigh more than a pound or two  more than 107--which, with this book at hand, does not happen--it is NOT always necessary to count every calorie-just getting an idea of the number of calories in the foods that one eats on a daily basis can help one to exercise enough portion control so that problems don't arise in the first place. This book is the best resouce that I have for that). Highly recommended for implementing a healthy, balanced diet!	2000-11-29
US	49648554	R3SB3ST9KFTOIR	0684856921	325476823	The Food Bible	Books	3	12	24	N	N	There are better food guides and cookbooks	I bought this book to supplement Corinne Netzer's The Complete Book of Food Counts (which I recommend) because I needed a book that gave not only nutritonal information on the number of grams of total fat in listed foods ( Netzer's book does this and is more comprehensive), but the amount of saturated (bad-cholesterol raising) fat in foods (Netzer's book doesn't provide information on saturated fat in particular and I neede this too ) because I had had high cholesterol and need to limit my intake of fats in general and saturated fat in particular. Together with a calculator this book has helped me to count calories, protein grams and fat grams and exercise portion control to maintain a balanced, healthy diet as I understand it, although now that I have a good idea of the number of calories, grams of protein and fat grams ( I don't count carohydrates-I just have enough servings) that are in  the foods that I generally eat I need to do this less since I already know it. The part of the book that I was most interested in  and that I have used most is that part of the book in which the nutritional information is given for various foods. One virtue  of this section is that  everything is listed on nice big pages and the nutritional information for each food is spread across both pages (facing each other-across) making it super easy to read and understand. One  super annoying drawback to the presentation is that although the author lists the protein, carbohydrate, fat and fiber content of the foods listed in GRAMS, when she breaks down the fat into saturated and unsaturated she gives the information in PERCENTAGES (for a book that DOES do all of this in GRAMS, with a very brief, excellent intoduction containing sound nutrtional advice, see The American Dietetic Association's's guide to the foods we eat, available on this website-if I had to choose between this book and that one, I'd choose that one) You may know, as I do, approxiamtely how many grams of fat to allow yourself generally speaking on a daily basis before you buy the book and what percentage of that total number of fat grams, at  most, should come from saturated fat, but that doesn't mean that you want to have the information on the saturated fat content of any particular food presented as a bloody percentage!I mentioned above that I have used this book to compute, with the aid of a calculator, calories, grams of protein, carbohydrates, and fat in particular. As it happens, a couple of years ago, because after not having smoked cigarettes quite a few years, I had,, started not just smoking but smoking very heavily and not only, as stated above, was my cholesterol high, but my doctor advised me that because I was smoking too much and not eating enough, my protein was too low and that I should quit smoking and develop better eating habits. Not only was he right (I had even considerably lost my appetite because of this) he helped me to accomplish this. Since obtaining this information on various foods and generally monitoring my intake of the nutrients mentioned in particular was my primary purpose for buying this book it took me quite some time to get around to reading various other parts of it of which there are several. There is advice of hers that I would not take and advice that I think is fine and what's wrong with that is that you do have to know something about this before buying the book to know which advice of hers it would be better not to take. Some of it may be common sense. I learned, prior to buying this book, for example, from the website of Dr. C. Everett Koop how many grams of protein, carbohydrates, fats, and fiber I should have on a daily basis for my age, sex, height, frame size and activity level and that is what I go by. Of protein I  already knew need at least 58 grams daily and I would not get anything like enough were I  to use the formula that she gives (and neither would you) with which I think there is someting wrong. To be avoided  also is &quot;the elimination diet&quot;; to be discussed with you doctor  before taking any are herbal supplements  ( I've never been interested and don't ). These are too flakey for me. Best part of the book-the nutritional information. Better cookbooks (available here)-The American Heart Association's cookbooks, The Fannie Farmer Cookbook and Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home, and At Home with the French Classics, and The French Culinary Institute's Salute to Healthy Cooking. Dietary diversity is more impotant than superfoods.	2000-11-29
US	49648554	R5UU02344IIB0	076450648X	688370152	The iMac For Dummies (For Dummies (Computers))	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Overall absolutely indispensible and terrific!	I bought the iMac for Dummies ( 1998) in December 1999  before buying my very first computer, and iMac DVD Graphite Special with a 9.0.3 Operating System in March 2000, knowing very little about computers. With the help of this book, Apple (including their toll free number the owner can call for help for three months from the date of purchase--they also offer an additional three years of help and a Tech Tool to diagnose any problems that arise of purchase avaiable to the owner within three  months of the date of purchase) and the iMac  itself I been able to learn to operate my own computer, an ongoing process. This book is very helpful for people who know little or nothing about the iMac or computers in general, especially people who may never be able to become very advanced at all (unless they do) --because between the iMac, Apple and this book, it should be posssible for them to learn to operate it adequately  for whatever their purposes are or may become.  This book is so helpful from the very beginning to wherever it may take you ongoingly, that it is an absolute godsend and I cannot recoomend  strongly enough that you buy it and the iMac. They are perfect for people who know little/nothing about computers and/or are intimidated by them and/or realistically would have trouble operating one  (as well as others who just don't want any unnecessary difficulties/complications). If you are like any or all of the foregoing, what might be at least very difficult or maybe even impossible for you, this book, ( together with the iMac and Apple) will undoubtely make the difficult easy enough, the scary at least a lot less scary and possible to handle, and the maybe really impossible to do more than possible.  Something that others have not mentioned for whoever may be interested which recently proved to be a revelation to me because when I first tried to do what he said to do it didn't seem work as he said it would are his instructions  (page 108) under the heading AccentHeaven. While the presentation/humor may seem dumb,and while the instuctions that apply to a foreign language apply only to French and are not complete for that language, they turn out to be invaluable and a little trial and error experimentation  following these instruction exactly, using the rest of the keys on the keyboard  reveals what's missing on that page for that language as well as for at least German, Spanish, Portuguese and probably others. What I was told by Apple for French in particular is that I had to access the Keyboard Layout feature via the Apple Menu and select the needed keyboard layout. (There are too many of these to mention  but for only for languages using the Roman alphabet). This is quite a hassle because when you use a different keyboard layout most or all of the letters are no longer in the same location on the keyboard as with standard USA English keyoard layout. Also, if you are going to do that you need to copy/memorize the locations of the letters you use  using that keyboard layout because while you can access a representation of the keyboard layout that's in effect then so that it appears on the screen , it doesn't stay there when you start to type . Also, on my computer, it took both the Swiss French and the French French Keyboard layouts (which couldn't both  be used at the same time) to have everything I needed for either. Much too much toggling back and forth and too many unnecessary steps were involoved that way.  His method is so vastly superior that I use it instead. Following his instructions is easier, simpler, more efficient, less time consuming and more comfortable. What is not right there on the page can be found by trial and error following the same instructions right on the same keyboard ( using only the standard USA English keyboard layout).  I highly recommend buying this book especially for the beginner but also for anyone who wants to get to know the iMac and possibly buy one which I highly recommed that they do they really are very superior. BTW, For anyone interested in this, the 9.0.3 (and up) operating system comes with additional foreign language capacity (on the hard drive) so that the user can type and edit in languages using other than the Roman alphabet.	2000-11-28
US	49648554	R2CAE6NXKND3ZJ	0449000265	21222487	Eight Weeks to Optimum Health: A Proven Program for Taking Full Advantage of Your Body's Natural Healing Power	Books	2	16	72	N	N	Overall not good enough	The longer I have this book, the less I think of it. Didn't like soyburgers enough to go on eathing them. He's just wrong about the value of  artificial sweetners since they have practially no calories and every level teaspoon of sugar has 15 calories (over time this adds up to whatever it adds up depending on how many teaspoons of sugar you consume on the average per day--one pound of bodyfat is 3500 calories)--and each and every one of them is a calorie I don't  need (I usually need sweetnener in coffee, green tea and cereal).  I drink soymilk (lowfat) and it tastes fine but I've read credibly elsewhere that it has developed that less calcium is asorbed by the human body from having drunk a cup of calcium fortified soymilk than from an eaual amount of cow's milk containing the same amouint of calcium. I drink more (fat free) cows milk and less soymilk than I did when I first started drinking it. His advice that is worth taking take can be had elsewhere for free  on the internet or in better form and in better books (The Omega Diet, and Judith Wills' The Food Bible, both avaiable at this website) which I recommend over this one. Furthermore, while it's not a bad idea at all to take two baby aspirin a day (162 mg. a day ) to lower one's risk for heart attacks and colon cancer, it is also true that the website of The Harvard School of Public Health has a free cancer quiz ( risk assessment) for various types of cancer including colon cancer and what they recommend to reduce one's risk  ( only after you talk to your doctor) is one full strength aspirin (325 mg.) 4-6 times a week. Also, in his discussion of the raw foods diet which he doesn't recommend (and he's right) although he does say that people shouldn't eat raw sprouts (I THINK because they contain natural toxins), he doesn't say  that that since 1999 (starting before that in 1998) the FDA has had an advisory in effect that people should not eat ANY raw sprouts because of the food borne illnesses they cause because they're contaminated. Where the bacteria are most present when they are present is in the seeds and in the beans--and what is present, if present, is the most harmful strain of E Coli that exists which cannot be removed by washing but causes no harm in thoroughly cooked sprouts. Also, this book is chock full of testmonials which seriously detract from it. Other reviewers have commented about the fact that at the end there's something about the possiblity of surviving without food. I don't think this belongs in a book of this type at all and of course it's absurd. As to pesticides: they wash off even strawberries. He says organic strawberries taste better: after trying his recipe for marinara sauce (see my comment below), I doubt that he has  any taste buds. Some of his recipes, you could not pay me to try ( such as mayonnaise and tartar sauce made with silken tofu). Also, I  do eat meat and poultry (not  oganic-- I think people should save their money and not take this advice). As to his his marinara sauce, had I followed his recipe to the letter, I don't see how I could have eaten it. He's got a large can (28 oz) of crushed tomatoes (I used a 15 oz can of crushed  tomatoes and a 15 oz can of diced tomatoes and I'm glad I did), and, if anyone can believe it, a 15 oz  (!) can of tomato paste and no water (and also red pepper flakes which I dislike which I therefore omitted). The diced tomatoes saved the sauce. (It would have been dreary without them). I did have to add a can (28 oz) of water. As to all that tomato paste, I don't know how anyone could stand to put that in the sauce, let alone eat it. That is way too much. I used a 3 oz can  of it and that is, I think the most anyone should use because its so strong (If I make it  again it will be with two tablespoons of it because that's enough). I've decided that I'm not going to try any more of his recipes. As I said earlier, his lentil salad was dismal. I recommed both of the books mentioned above over this one. I'd pass on this one if I were you.	2000-11-27
US	49648554	RL71WCFKZ0BBB	0316051098	246541929	The Breast Cancer Prevention Diet: The Powerful Foods, Supplements, and Drugs That Can Save Your Life	Books	3	12	37	N	N	Not till I find out more about Lillian Thompson!	I was all set to get this book, really...Till it came to my attention that I alreasy HAVE a book that cites Lillian Thompson's research at The Univerity of Toronto  with flax seeds on breast cancer in mice (or rats, whichever-- except that its NOT whichever, it's bloody mice! and they don't always get the same results in both!) and it says that she is going one step further and, in a pilot study, is giving flaxseeds to women recently diagnosed with the disease. Now there is a review right here written in December, 1998, about the hardcover edition of this book that says that Dr. Arnot failed to make clear that the results Lillian Thompson obtained were for mice. The book I bought was published in hardcover in 1998 and in paperback in 1999, and I just got it in 2000. So I though maybe since then Lillian Thompson had published something in which she had given  flaxseeds to human subjects diagnosed with breast cancer. Since the government has granted free poblic access to Medline, I looked up her reasearh on it. She hasn't done recent research on any human subjects unless you count one experiment done a few years ago in which she gave various doses of of raw flaxseeds and processed (as in cooked: in bread and muffins) flaxseeds to healthy human subjects to see if what (no I don't know what--but it was what it was supposed to be) was excreted would be excreted in a dose dependant manner and if it would be affected by processing ( raw vs. processed): it was excreted in a dose dependant manner and this was regardless of whether the flaxseeds were raw or processed in muffins and bread. But on Medline I could find no experiments of hers on human subjects with breast cancer going back as far as 1993. It's not that her experiments on mice aren't encouraging , but one wonders what happened to the human subjects that were recently diagnosed with breast cancer who were going to get the flax seeds. It may not even be that she hasn't done that and published it too--it's just thatas of now, if she has, I can't find it on Medline and I can find this other stuff of hers. I  don't intend to stop using flaxseeds, but I'm also not getting this book yet. Also to be consdered, possibly, that I do not know about: another reveiewer said that some of the scientists whose work was cited in the book have disassociated themselves from it. One might want to know why. I do think  that diet and some cancers are related and that it is worth one's while to find out what one can and try to reduce one's risk. However, I ,too, live on a budget, I have other needs too, and i'm not ready for this book yet.	2000-11-19
US	49648554	R1I45DETIO2M4L	0826412769	943187434	Pedagogy of the Oppressed, 30th Anniversary Edition	Books	1	28	109	N	N	Absolutely the wrong approach	I read it allright, and, although I did not read it that recently, it was enought to disuade me from reading anything else of his volutarily.  I'm so glad I wasn't educated remotely the way he proposes!! I actually learned something; I'm actually glad that I did--and in my more serious moments, I was at the time. The idea that there's something fundamentally wrong with the traditional teacher (and educational system) as transmitter of knowledge is absurd. Yes, this includes the teaching of appropriate skills, yes, this includes teaching students to think for themselves, and yes, this even includes the inculcation of values--and no that is not oppression unless it occurs in a Communist or totalitarian state, and then it may be to whatever extent it is in that particular state. If I had children  (my former spouse and I are divorced), I would never let anyone like this teach them! To me, THAT would constitute oppression of THEM becaus THEY would NOT be getting the education they needed and deserved !!!	2000-10-17
US	49648554	R3DDGKXJPRZ7ZT	0826406114	943187434	Pedagogy of the Oppressed	Books	1	27	68	N	N	Innacurate conception of traditonal education	This book presents a highly distorted view of traditional models of education and that view is not neutral in its effects, but very possibly actively destructive, as well intentioned prospective and actual educators seeking to improve the lot in the lives of what I am going to call disadvantaged students abandon more truly &quot;empowering&quot; educational approaches which involve the mastery of basic skills, the learning of all (more than ever) that there is to learn in all fields, and, to be sure, the acquistion of the ability to think critically (and of course for themselves) in favor of the approaches advocated by the author, based on such false conceptualizations as &quot;banking&quot;, and even oppression, which may acutally be bankrupting to their students and not empowering at all. It is not that there are not poor, and, extremely and intolerably poor, and disenfranchised people in the world, in all of the many, many varied situations in which they unfortunately exist, children and adults, in urgent need of education that will help them to surmount these problems, it is that Friere's conceptualizations do not really contribute to the solving of their problems ( and there can be as much laughter and joy in the tradtional classroom, if not more...), and may actually be harmful. There is a place for the use of the word &quot;oppressed&quot;, but it is not universal, and has no place in the description of the underclass, for which the right kinds of educational (and other) programs continue to be urgently needed, in modern, industrialized, longstanding democracies, such as, the United States of America. Third world and developing nations are another story, but even there, I would argue that what are NOT needed are nontraditional EDUCATIONAL approaches. Further, a more appropriate use of the word &quot;oppressed&quot; would be to apply it to the citizens and inhabitants of countries suffering under totalitarian  and (including) Communist regimes!!!What I am saying is that however admirable Friere's goals are, his whole conceptual framework is such, and his approaches such, that they can only be self-defeating. As to something as simple as memorization, there are all SORTS of people against it , and some of these say that it is somehow the opposite of understanding, which is what they say is needed. Sounds good, maybe, but I think they go hand in hand, and that memorization is a necessary tool which should in no case take the place of understanding , but should accompany it, where appropriate. However, what I found most deleterious (and I do mean &quot;deleterious&quot;) in Friere's ideas were his use of the term &quot;banking&quot; to describe the inculcation of all of the nececessary knowledge, &quot;oppressor&quot; to descibe the person  attmepting to inculcate said knowledge, basic skills, and  ability to think critically, and &quot;oppressed&quot; to describe the person attempting to learn these and in need of same. It is not that this book should not be on the reading list, it is that it's glaring and fatal misconceptions and their consequences should be exposed.ng is that however admirable Friere's goals are, his whole conceptual framework is such, and his approaches such, that they can only be self-defeating. As to something as simple as memorization, there are all SORTS of people against it , and some of these say that it is somehow the opposite of understanding, which is what they say is needed. Sounds good, maybe, but I think they go hand in hand, and that memorization is a necessary tool which should in no case take the place of understanding , but should accompany it, where appropriate. However, what I found most deleterious (and I do mean &quot;deleterious&quot;) in Friere's ideas were his use of the term &quot;banking&quot; to describe the inculcation of all of the nececessary knowledge, &quot;oppressor&quot; to descibe the person  attmepting to inculcate said knowledge, basic skills, and  ability to think critically, and &quot;oppressed&quot; to describe the person attempting to learn these and in need of same. It is not that this book should not be on the reading list, it is that it's glaring and fatal misconceptions and their consequences should be exposed.	2000-10-14
US	49648554	R10KMTZ9IZVNJU	0375407545	949198499	Eating Well for Optimum Health: The Essential Guide to Food, Diet, and Nutrition	Books	4	15	24	N	N	Excellent in many ways but too extreme in some	This book definitely helps in some ways. I did take his advice and try soymilk, which I never expected to do. Mow it's what I use for milk. However, it didn't stop there: I read elsewhere that the FDA says people should replace 25 grams of their  daily protein from meat with 25 grams a day of soy protein (this is supposed to have a cholesterol lowering effect). I tried soyburgers and now have a soyburger every day for lunch. However, contrary to his advice, I absolutely still use sugar substitutes (non saccharin), and I microwave my fish and vegetables because elsewhere I have read that, cooking fish at high temperatures destroys more than half the Omega 3's (but microwaving does not) and that even steaming vegetables( unlike micraowaving) causes the loss of 30% of the water soluable vitamins (and boiling 70%). He says microwaving &quot;can change the chemistry of food, especially proteins, possibly lowering the nutritional content and possibly creating unnatural compounds that may be hazardous to health&quot; and &quot;I recommend microwave ovens for rapid heating of food, not for cooking of more than a few minutes duration&quot;. That's enough to scare ya'! However, two ( 4 oz. each) servings of most fish microwaves in 4 minutes or less...I don't call that &quot;more than a few minutes&quot;. As for his criticism of &quot;high fructose corn syrup&quot; and some other chemicals: we may need some more healthy fats like Omega 3's in fish and flax oil (and to a lesser extent in Walnut, and Canola), but that doesn't mean that trans fat free fat free margarine , fat free mayonnaise. fat free cream cheese , fat free processed cheese, and fat free sour cream do not ABSOLUTELY have their place--and if they have high fructose corn syrup and other chemicals, so be it!  I do absolutely think that while he is to be taken seriously in many areas (not just &quot;more fruits and vegetables&quot;: PHYTOCHEMICALS), he is to be taken with a grain of salt in others. I just read (here) that in 1972 the  author wrote a book about the use of drugs to expand consciousness. Expect only so much. But that so much is a lot.  One comment, however, about ONE of his recipes--I tried his recipe for lentil salad. What's not funny is that not only did I think it was dismal, it's very like the one in the current edition of may late mother's cookbook (no her cooking wasn't dismal). There is a much better one in Julia and Jacques Cooking at Home (also available at this webiste).Some highlights of that recipe: includes Dijon mustard in the vinagrette (which is healthful olive oil), includes a chopped tomato and shallots, scallions or onion in the vinaigrette, includes cooking 1 cup of chopped onion WITH the lentils too. So, as to this. there is better that is no less healthful. Finally,  I think that some of the comments about the author's looks and taking his own advice are inappriately derrogatory. I don't know what some of these people expect him to look like--if he were obese, maybe they'd have a point, but he's not. (And I am female, 5'3 1/2&quot; tall and weigh 106, so this is not coming from someone who is generally considered to be overweight) In any case, much of his advice is good. The idea that healthful food should taste good and that what tastes good is, to some extent, culturally determined is a valuable insight, especially since we all have to live with our healthful dietary choices. However, I am not knowlegable enough to know when he's right or wrong about certain things, from certain chemicals in foods to microwaves ( it's not true, however, as far as I know, that the body cannot obtain lycopene...from tomatoes unless the tomatoes are cooked and then only if fat is present in the digestive tract...[ p. 157]. What is true is that the lycopene in tomatoes is a great deal more bioavaliable in cooked tomatoes, and cooked tomato products like tomato sauce, and that the presence of some oil helps.)  Four stars only because I think he's a bit extreme.	2000-10-07
US	49648554	R29FBGQW29DS58	0875964400	185338954	The French Culinary Institute's Salute to Healthy Cooking, From America's Foremost French Chefs	Books	5	9	13	N	N	At first glance, truly exciting, seems like it delivers	This book just arrived, and not only is it beautiful, the authors seems to know well what they are talking about. This includes the discussion of  healthy nutrition habits at the beginning of the book, including recent  scientific findings. I must say that at Frencn cooking, I am an absolute  novice and an earlier adverse review of this book by one reader actually  caused my to buy, also, Grausman's &quot;At Home with the Frech  Classics&quot; which I also recommend for thigs like Coq au Vin and Boeuf  Bourguinon and Bouillaibaise, and for that matter, Hollandaise and  Bearnaise and Veloute Sauce which are not in this book. However, for  reasons of health, these are things which I cannot have very often, even  somewhat defatted, and I think this book is wonderful too. I would like to  say that anyone finding white chicken stock (p.37) too hard to make or  otherwise unaccepatable because it requires 8 pounds of chicken bones or  carcasses, all skin and fat removed and 10 cups of water, etc. to be  reduced to 4 cups (which the book says can be accomplished by simmering for  4 hours), has only to look to the next page (page 38): Smart White Chicken  Stock &quot;can be used in place of any other chicken stock&quot; and  requires only 1 pound skinless chicken breasts, 10 oz. skinless chicken  legs 3 quarts of water, etc. and is simmered for a grand total of an hour  and twenty minutes and yields 8 cups. What I think I find strange, however  ( but I haven't tried it and this may work), is that on page 36, for Brown  Chicken Stock, 4 pounds of chicken bones and 6 QUARTS of water (etc) are  simmered for 3 hours (however&quot;or until a rich stock has formed&quot;)  and yeilds 4 cups, and on the next page (37 again) 10 CUPS of water are  supposed, with a whopping 8 pounds of chicken bones to yeild 4 cups of  stock in 4 hours. However,as I said, I haven't tried this yet. I must say,  the book has plenty of wonderful fish entrees, although by no means to the  exculsion of other things. However, a minor point for me since I have  plenty of other references in which to find the information: although they  give nutirtional information for each recipe indluding the much appreciated  total fat and saturated fat,as well as calories and cholesterol--they do  not give the number of grams of protein per serving, where it apples, and  they should. Both too little and too much protein is not a good thing. In  any case, I look forward to using the apparently absolutely wonderful  recipes in this beautiful book.	2000-08-15
US	49648554	RLE3TSN0TE980	0060930233	513272126	The Omega Diet: The Lifesaving Nutritional Program Based on the Diet of the Island of Crete	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Most helpfulbook!	I have to add to my previous review because there are so many things in  this book that are helpful. It is not just that the author documents so  well the value, necessity and benfits of consuming enough Omega6/Omega3  fatty acids--and in the right proportions, and tells the reader how to do  it, --that would be enough. but there is more! She even includes a list of  cancer fighting fruits and vegetables--and other substances--such as green  tea ( and if you have read Weil's recent book and he is right about it- you  learn that you need to drink four cups of green tea a day to obtain the  nutitional beneit-- I now do this daily)--so that you can load up on these  things just to be on the safe side (especially if you are at least at some  risk for cancer, whether from having smoked cigarrettes, or whatever). And  as I said, the benefit to be derived from getting enough Omega 3s, and  getting Omega6/Omega3 in the right balance is worth the price of the book  alone--and it is all very doable.	2000-08-11
US	49648554	R3E4UOTQL40MWH	0517506629	319073550	The Escoffier Cookbook and Guide to the Fine Art of Cookery: For Connoisseurs, Chefs, Epicures Complete With 2973 Recipes	Books	3	7	58	N	N	A Beginner/Intermediate Cook	Things that I cannot finds in this book (for whatever reasons) which I  hoped would be included: 1.recipe for coq au vin 2. recipe for onion soup  3. recipe for lobster thermidor. Things that are in here that I can live  without : 1. how to lard a joint of meat which a. I don't understand in  terms of doing this b.under no circumstances do I need this in terms of the  fat 2. a recipe for boeuf bourguignone which is so old ( it could also be  traditional) that it uses a piece of rump roast or top round roast that is  not cut into pieces ( it was originally for a tough piece of meat--so said  Julia and Jacques the other day on PBS--and his boeuf bourguignon also was  a &quot;pot roast&quot; --and I am prejudiced against pot roasts and will  never make it that way). However, therre is another reviewer who is  absolutely right, there is an excellent presentation and overview of the  sauces. Also of cooking methods. I just got it--and it's not the only  one--I do expect to be at least referring to it, and probably using it.	2000-08-08
US	49648554	R14HGR4Z8ZPUOC	0060930233	513272126	The Omega Diet: The Lifesaving Nutritional Program Based on the Diet of the Island of Crete	Books	5	19	19	N	N	A very helpful book from a serious diet and nutrition reader	This is a  very solidly researched, well documented book and while I do  not follow all of the recipes daily (or even all of anyone's advice,  including the author's), I do follow considerable of the princples. The  recipes I have tried, such as black bean quesadillas, which I had not only  never had but never heard of before, are truly delicious as well as  healthful. I eat more fish weekly and less meat weekly than she provides  for in her sample menus for 3 weeks--especially since I have a soyburger  for lunch every day--and fish for dinner every evening except one evening a  week when I usually have meat or poultry. I also appreciate that for those  of us who do not have bread machines yet, she has provided in the back of  the book the name of a wonderful place from which breads, etc. made with  Omega 3 fortified flaxmeal are shipped--I have ordered these and they are  good. I do take a lot of the advice: eating at least a few servings a week  of fish high in Omega 3s, using olive oil and flaxseed oil, using flaxseed,  eating plenty of fruits and vegatables. However, I do us fat free margarine  with no trans-fatty acids( I include in this both hydrogenated oil and  partially hydrogenated oil) as well as a mayonnaise that is similar.  However, I am going to make my own mayonnaise soom--having grown up, in  part, on my mother's--and plan to use Omaga 3 fortified eggs which are  available to me. What I am saying is that when I got this book,  nutritionally speaking, I was at sea, and now I'm not--so I highly  recommend it to everyone.	2000-08-06
US	49648554	R53AKBZ2452BU	0156006189	587611649	Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A Returning Catholic	I decided not to reveiw anything the other day, but I cannot let this  pass. I have been reading this book, piecemeal and slowly, over some  time--and by now I am getting other books, fully intending to inform myself  so that I can return to the Church, a process which began slowly, years  ago, when I read a pro-abortion law journal article written by my former  (and atheistic) husband and published by the St. John's University Law  Review in the early 1960's. In it he presented the &quot;medical  position&quot; simply as supporting the idea that because the zygote has,  as of the moment of fertilization (conception) a complete set of genes from  each parent, it is a life ( and therfore should not be aborted). From that  moment on, I was against abortion. Of course this did not speak to the  existence of the soul(etc.!), but it was a start. I am nothing like as  informed as perhaps I should be, and although I have heard of Kirkus  Review, I have never even seens it--but I am appalled! I thought that the  review saying the the author had enlisted the help of Claire Booth Luce and  Malcolm Muggeridge as part of his Forum was a customer review--and I went  to check the book simply on this point of fact because I thought there was  a customer (!) who thought that these two people, in particular, were part  of his &quot;Forum&quot;. After checking to see that they were not, because  unfortunately both were dead  before they could be asked to particpate, I  came back to this page only to see that the error was not on the part of a  customer, but on the part of the reviewer for Kirkus Review. The reviewer  names these two and Fr. Neuhaus as being memebers of the author's  &quot;Forum&quot; specifically--when in fact the first two were not. I am  sorry, relative to what the reveiwer is trying to say, this may be a minor  point-- but I don't think so--he could at least get his facts correct.  Indeed that is not all that's wrong with that review: I have to reread  considerable parts of this book --including much of the material complained  of by the reviewer ( especially just what the &quot;Forum&quot; had to say.  I confess I have not fisnished the book either--I am saving  &quot;Experiencing Lourdes&quot; for --well, soon. But I'm sure that that  reveiwer's and other reviewers' crticisms of that chapter are unjustified.  At any rate, this book and this author figures (and will have figures) in  what is becoming (and will have become) my return to the church. Further,  during elementary school I attended a private Roman Catholic day school  that was also a convent.We had Low Mass every morning before classes except  Fridays when we had High Mass--which of course the whole school (1-12) sang  in Latin. That the Latin Mass--including and especially High Mass--but  really both of them--could be abolished is absolutely awful. Further I did  not think that the appaling developments and states of affairs in the prep  schools discussed was boring, irreleant, or anything of the kind. I never  heard of his prep school ( and I'm sure he never heard of mine--which long  since ceased to exist --probably because it could only be what ii was with  the one headmistress that it has had since it came into existence--she was  a British converted Catholic--and there were other Catholic teachers.  Attendance every Sunday in a Christian church was mandatory for all  students. When I complained to one of my teachers and the headmsitress that  I was losing my faith, they got a priest to come to talk to me regularly  for an hour. This helped at least temporarily. So all these things do  matter and this book (and its author) are (and will have been) among the  influence resulting in my not very distant (I'm sure) return to The Church  for which he and they are to be thanked.	2000-08-06
US	49648554	R1I47T33K03YLI	0156006189	587611649	Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A Returning Catholic	I just had to comment on this book. I have had it for a while and have  been readking it slowly, piecemeal, for some time and am not yet finished.  However, it, ( and other things) have already had the effect of my ordering  other books on my faith, Roman Catholcism, in order to inform myself and  prepare myself for  my return to The Church in the not too distant future.  I read the reviews here today, and i thought that the review  specifically  complaining about the author's having enlisted the help of Clare Booth  Luce, Malcolm Muggeridge and Fr. Niehaus as members of his  &quot;Forum&quot; was a customer review. I went to check the book on this  point of fact : the first two of these were both dead before the author  could ask them to particpate and so of course they did not. When I came  back to this page, I discovered that the review in which this error had  occurred was NOT a customer review, it was a professional review. The error  was made by the reviewer for the Kirkus Review. Even if this is a minor  point relative to what he was trying to say, I think that he should have  been more accurate. Also that's not all that's wrong with that review, and  other similar criticisms: there wasn't a thing wrong with the idea of his  &quot;Forum&quot;, nor with its content and presention, nor with his  presentation of the opinions of others. Had either or both or Clare Booth  Luce and Malcolm Muggeridge been alive and able to join his  &quot;Forum&quot; so much the better. Also, I have yet to read  &quot;Experiencing Lourdes&quot; but I seriously doubt that any of the  criticisms of the chapter are valid. Further, I do not accept (thought I  will have to live with) the abolition of the Latin Mass, nor do I think it  had the intended effect or a desirable one. I attended, from 1st to 6th  grade, a Roman Catholic day school that was also a convent in Ohio. We had  Low Mass in Latin every day of the week before classes except Friday, and  we had High Mass, which of course the whole school (1-12) sang in Latin,  every Friday. We did NOT sound bad! No one was &quot;reserved&quot;. It was  the most natural thing in the world. I'm sure I wasn't the only one that  loved it. I am sure I'm not the only one that misses it. The paert(s) of  the book devoted to the current state of affairs in the preparatory schools  dicussed was not boring, irrelevant or unimportant. For part of high school  I attended a prep school in Massachusetts which has long since ceased to  exist probably because their first headmistress, who had been there for  years when I got there, was considered to be irrepaceable. She was a  converted Catholic, and many of the teachers were Catholic. Attendance at a  Christian church every Sunday was mandatory for all students and we were  all taken to our respective churches on the schools buses. When I  complained to one of the teachers and the headmistress that I was losing my  faith, they got a priest to come and talk to me for an hour on a regular  basis which helped at the time. So these things do matter. I count this  book and this author among the helpful influences which are resulting (and  will have resulted relatively soon, I'm sure) in my permanent return to The  Church. I am thankful for these.	2000-08-06
US	49648554	R3F3AG3GYCYV9Z	0156006189	587611649	Nearer, My God: An Autobiography of Faith	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Returning Catholic	I just had to put my two cents worth in about this book. I have been  reading it slowly, and piecemeal, over some time, and have some rereading  to do and a way to go. However, it has already happened that I am getting  other books on the subject of my faith, Roman Catholicism, --now--knowing  that this is going to result in my return to The Church--after many, many  years of absence--in the not too distant future. What I had to comment on  is perhaps a minor point, but I really must. I read the reveiws of this  book here today, and I thought that the reveiw that complained about,  specifically, the author's having enlisted the help of Clare Booth Luce,  Malcolm Muggeridge, and Fr. Niehaus as members of his &quot;Forum&quot; was  a customer review. I went to check the book on this point o fact: the first  two were both dead before the author could ask them to particpatein his  &quot;Forum&quot;-so of course they did not. I came back to this page only  to dicover that the review in which this error had been made was not a  customer review at all--the reviewer for the Kirkus Review made this error.  I think he should at least get his facts correct, even if perhaps this is  small point relative to what he was trying to say. Also that is not all  that's wrong with that reveiw. In the first place, there is noithing wrong  with the author's having had his &quot;Forum&quot;--and had either or both  of Clare Booth Luce and Malcolm Muggeridge been able to join it--so much  the better. Not only was there nothing wrong with it--it was a good thing.  I have yet to read &quot;Experiencing Lourdes&quot; but I seriously doubt  that the criticisms of it--whether by any professionals or customers-- are  valid. Further, I am absolutely unaccepting (though I will have to live  with it) of the fact that the Latin Mass has been abolished--and I don't  happen to feel that the change has had the intended effect, or a positive  one. I attended a private Roman Catholic day school in Ohio from 1st to 6th  grade which was also a convent--and we had Low Mass (in Latin) every  morning before classes except Fridays when we had High Mass which of course  the entire school (1-12) sang in Latin. No one had a problem singing. No  one was &quot;reserved&quot;. It was the most natural thing in the world  and I loved it, and I'm sure I wasn't the only one. Also, we dod NOT sound  bad! Further, I don't think that the part of the part(s) of the book  devoted to the deveolpement of the current situations and  states of  affairs in the preparatory schools dicussed was irrelevant, boring, or  anything of the kind. I hadn't heard of his prep school--and he  may never  have  heard of mine which was in Massachusetts and has long since ceased to  exist, probably becuase the first headmistress, who had been there for  years when I got there, was irreplacable. The headmistress was a converted  Catholic, and other teachers werre Catholic. Attendance in a Christian  church every Sunday was mandatory. When I complained to one teacher and the  headmistress that I was losing my faith, they got a Catholic priest to come  and talk to me on a regular basis which helped for as long as I was there,  at least. So these things do matter. I count this book (and its author)  among the helpful influences which are resulting in (and will have resulted  in, I'm sure) my return to The Church.	2000-08-06
