US	49645255	R1MGDIAXBWISMX	0156028026	53669848	Theodore Roosevelt: A Biography	Books	2	8	8	N	N	Doesn't Measure Up	I agree with many of the other reviews. I picked this up because Pringle's biography was a Pulitzer Prize winner, written close in time to the subject matter. I was disappointed in the writing style and the lack of penetrating analysis. It is like a stone skipping over the lake. Subsequent authors have done much better and that might be expected as history and the passage of time provide their separate illuminations. Still, Pringle had the benefit of first person, first generation sourcing and I expected more as a result. Pringle's three paragraph forward to the book's re-release in 1955 laid a clear foundation. He said he would have failed completely unless he proved that T.R. was never dull. I have to say Pringle tantalizingly cracks that door but doesn't expand on it. I found his sidebar comments on various contemporaries of Roosevelt, especially as some have been lost to history, more interesting. Intriguing side streets that I intend to pursue. In fact, that only would be my recommendation for this book. <br /> <br />However, Pringle never fleshes out Roosevelt. Pringle seems to catch his outline, his reactions to events, circumstances or people, but fails to deliver T.R. himself. This might suffice as a brief introduction to Roosevelt but much more interesting and illuminating biographies are now available.	2005-10-13
US	49645255	R1S4OENTZF04XR	1574883429	85322316	A Mind in Prison: The Memoir of a Son and Soldier of the Third Reich	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Personal Exorcism Not Completed	This book was interesting, earnest, candid and filled with the author's personal angst for having been duped, first by his Nazi father and then by Hitler. I disagree with some of the other reviews in that I didn't find it penetrating or searing. Bruno Manz stabs but fails at soul-searching.  <br /> <br />In some ways it is repetitive. The author explains again and again how he was brainwashed into Nazism from youth to young adulthood. He digresses into various life experiences with teachers, schools, childhood friends, military experiences and lesser details of life. All of which he thinly connects to his primary purpose for the memoir, exorcising his personal demons over blindly serving Hitler. Many of those digressions would be unremarkable without that connection. Bruno uses those vignettes to underscore that he was misguided but they fail to reveal, illuminate or prove how any particular incident, mentor or authority figure contributed to his blind devotion to Hitler. In fact, he frequently recounts how he internally rebelled against school authorities, military authorities, rules and procedures that didn't make common sense or rubbed him the wrong way. If that is so, then he should have self analyzed further to determine how and why he dismissed his conscience when it called about Hitler, the concentration camps and the Jews. He continued to follow the grand lie and served as essentially a political officer in youth organizations and later in the military. He recounts that he was never very enthusiastic and harbored doubts, yet he continuously pressed on. Example on pg 69, he describes a school director quoting Hitler's credo, \\"He who wants to live, let him fight. And he who does not want to fight in this world of eternal struggle does not deserve to live.\\" Bruno expresses misgivings when the school director says that is more religion than a person would ever find in the Bible. He admits agreeing with the anti-Semitism and anti-Catholicism of the director but boycotts his classes from then on. Methinks he doth protest too much. <br /> <br />Don't get me wrong, Bruno Manz clearly, genuinely, honestly apologizes for his personal role in Germany's evil shame. He denounces all that he was and embraces all that he has become since the war and particularly while living in America. But in the end about all that Bruno confirms is that, at least between 1915 and 1946, Germans were weak for rhetoric, easily swayed by romantic and heroic figures, and followed the crowd. He doesn't dig deep enough to reveal how that was possible. Were they greedy, mad, angry, vulnerable, ambitious, fearful, bombastic, maniacal, weak, bloodthirsty, gullible? Personally, he was swayed by Dad while impressionable and later by Hitler via Goebbels propaganda machine. OK, we already know that about every German during WWII. Bruno, why and how were you vulnerable to that when the rest of the world was not? Why do some Germans today continue to deny the Holocaust? Why is there an element that still deifies Hitler and anti-Semitism?  <br /> <br />I suspect that Bruno cannot to this day accept his own cowardice. He never dared to disagree or question his father, although he credits his mother and older brother with being able to avoid anti-Semitic hatred and Hitler worship. He wouldn't dare question his Nazism or the Fuhrer because he very likely knew it would mean his death or imprisonment. Hmmm, that may be the self evident truth every German citizen who willingly participated in Nazism has to face. They didn't take any contrary action because it was someone else who was being victimized and they were cowards. So, while he may have achieved some catharsis, I doubt that he completely exorcised the regret and shame he aimed for. Still, the book has some value derived from its basic honesty and first person account. <br /> <br />	2005-10-13
US	49645255	RGOY1GRIWEBR5	0811706524	989875938	The Final Fury	Books	1	14	16	N	N	Where Was the Editor?	Reviewing the very last battle of the Civil War has merit, if only for historical documentation. This author has covered what was essentially an extended skirmish that occurred at an obscure location on the Rio Grande between Brownsville, Texas and the Gulf of Mexico. The battle occurred six weeks after General Lee's surrender at Appomattox. Ironies abound and the author touches on them in the narrative. There are innumerable footnotes, indicating the author attempted original research and accuracy. The maps were helpful in orienting the reader. Some photographs of soldiers appear in the middle but strangely only a few were mentioned in the narrative, leaving the reader to wonder why the others were included. Unfortunately, my advice is avoid this book.<br /><br />Where was the editor? Every other paragraph is repetitive, as if the author was trying to stretch a few pages to eke out his 160 page book. It is extremely trying and irritating to read. The book has numerous typographical errors, misspells and the like. Annoyingly, a concise well constructed sentence or paragraph will be immediately followed by a jarring construction that makes you wonder if the author was assisted by a grade school ghost writer.<br /><br />Probably the story doesn't have enough bulk to be told in any forum larger than an essay. This last event of the Civil War is documented for posterity but not very attractively.	2005-08-04
US	49645255	R2MCEFSBU9AJE2	0452283523	928235722	Churchill: A Biography	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Fine Portrait	Jenkins was for a time a contemporary with Churchill in the House of Commons. Jenkins was a British politician of the opposite camp from Churchill. Jenkins is a good biographer and storyteller who knows his country, its history, Churchill and the luminary politicians of the WWII period. All of these factors contribute to the portrait that Jenkins paints of Churchill. <br /> <br />This is not an all encompassing biography. For instance, if you expect it to cover the most important decisions by Churchill or to reveal his interaction with family, you'll be disappointed. Read it to learn the political context of Churchill's appearance on the British stage early in his adulthood and later as Prime Minister and it will well serve your study of Churchill. <br /> <br />Jenkins is admiring without being star struck. He gives credit where it is properly due, even though a Churchill action was not of Jenkins particular political persuasion. His coverage of Churchill's wilderness years demonstrates how doggedly persistent, tenacious and self-confident Churchill was. For Churchill during those years, the House of Commons was possibly everything from a lion's den or a circus to Mt. Everest but it certainly wasn't a safe harbor. Jenkins is uniquely suited to deliver a biography of Churchill from the political perspective. <br /> <br />I thoroughly enjoyed it but it wouldn't be the only biography of the great man that I would sample. It is very long and often tedious because Jenkins will throw Parliamentary terms, British culture, antiquated language and more at the reader without regard to whether you get it or not. It is your problem as far as Jenkins is concerned and if that gets in the way of your reading the biography, well then it is probably above you anyhow. It is possible you'll sense that arrogance and quit. But if you persevere, I believe you'll find this portrait of Churchill to have its usefulness.	2005-07-05
US	49645255	R2X7XYH5P8NIMD	1585747394	77900223	The Quest for the Red Prince: Israel's Relentless Manhunt for One of the World's Deadliest and Most Wanted Arab Terrorists	Books	4	24	29	N	N	The Mossad Rarely Fail	This is an intriguing story. Very well written with excellent references and accuracy. Authors Bar-Zohar and Haber trace the history of Ali Salameh, a Palestinian who directed the Black September group from 1970 until the Mossad eliminated him in 1979. The Mossad rarely fail when they have decided to take an action.  <br /> <br />Interestingly, the authors manage to put a human, mortal face on the Red Prince, a notorious terrorist. While it makes him recognizable, it also underscores his terrible malevolence and brutality. They also clearly show how Arafat created Black September to carry out the actions that the PLO wanted below the radar. That is reprehensible and precisely one of the reasons that so far no peace talks could ever succeed in the region. <br /> <br />I found nuggets throughout the story. Connections to world events that you may remember from the media coverage at the time. Now, you'll get the untold or unrealized story. I heartily recommend this book as a true crime, thriller genre story that will keep you turning pages to the end.	2005-02-22
US	49645255	RIQT7684M52WV	B0006CB2M2	411177008	Days of exile;: The story of the Vine and Olive Colony in Alabama	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Beginning of Demopolis, Alabama	Absolutely delightful!! What an intriguing, dramatic, romantic, glamorous yet tragic story!  <br /> <br />Did you know that Demopolis, situated in the Black Belt of Alabama south of Tuscaloosa, was founded by Bonapartist exiles from France? That they named Marengo County after Napoleon's famous Battle of Marengo? Winston Smith, a native son of Demopolis, has superbly told the story of Demopolis' institution in this 1967 book, which is in its third printing. <br /> <br />After the defeat of Napoleon at Waterloo in 1815, many of his army officers, soldiers, and other sympathizers were exiled from France. They traveled initially to Philadelphia but petitioned the U. S. Congress for a land grant to establish a colony. By an act of Congress, the unlikely band were provided with nearly 100,000 acres near the confluence of the Black Warrior and Tombigbee rivers in the western part of the newly created area of Alabama, which had been carved from Mississippi. <br /> <br />The colonists settled at White Bluff on the Tombigbee and later named the settlement Demopolis, a greek name meaning \\"The People's City\\". By agreement, articulated in the Congressional Record, the French exiles were to establish the vine and olive in the area and pay for the land in fourteen years at a price of $2 per acre. <br /> <br />Though the original settlers were subsequently increased by French refugees from the slave uprisings in Santo Domingo, there were insurmountable problems from the beginning. As Winston said, \\"the blunt truth is that the whole venture was ill conceived, badly planned, foolishly managed, and unsuccessfully ended.\\" Many of the settlers were military, upper middle class or aristocracy. They knew little to nothing of farming. The soil was not suited to vineyards and olive groves. Many probably intended to stay only so long as it took Napoleon to recover power and then they would have returned to France. Even after Napoleon's demise, most of the original exiles found their way toPhiladelphia, Mobile, other parts of America, or back home. On the one hand the initial enterprise failed miserably and ignominously. On the other, Demopolis still exists today. As Bert Hitchock states in the book's foreword, \\"people and place are not exclusive but complementary, are not separate and absolute but interdependent.\\" So did the French exiles fail? <br /> <br />Winston Smith has carefully researched the history of Demopolis. He narrates the colorful, legendary and auspicious story in an easy going manner without ever straying into the narrow confines of a strictly local or regional history. His goal was to achieve Thoreau's statement that \\"a good writer could make the history of his own parish more interesting than another's history of the world.\\" Winston Smith succeeded admirably. <br /> <br />Days of Exile covers the beginning of the Vine and Olive Colony from 1817 until about 1830. In his companion book, The People's City, Smith tells the Demopolis story from shortly before the Civil War through Reconstruction.	2005-02-13
US	49645255	RKOFA7J7QN62R	0333558812	536073766	The Ultra Spy: An Autobiography	Books	3	9	9	N	Y	Spy Lite	This is an autobiography of F. W. Winterbotham, an MI6 agent in WWII, who organized the war time dissemination of Ultra decodes to field operational units. Published in 1989. Winterbotham covers his 93 years rather quickly in a small book of only 246 pages. There is sufficient footnoting and reference for accuracy and pointing the reader to further investigation.<br /><br />The war saving miracle of decoding Germany's communications via the Enigma cyper machine is better described in other books. You will not get that here.<br /><br />There are interesting vignettes of charming, pastoral British existence in Winterbotham's pre-WWI youth and early adulthood. Glimpes of a bygone era told first person. He thinly describes the early days of rudimentary aircraft being adapted to military use and later his own development of high altitude spy photography. Winterbotham modestly but sparsely details his introductions to the highest Nazi circles, including Hitler, Himmler and Goring, before the outbreak of war. Thus, he was uniquely situated as a prototype James Bond to obtain invaluable estimates of German air strength before the war. His real claim to fame is that he devised Special Liaision Units, combined allied military intelligence components in the front line areas, that amounted to a real time distribution network of Ultra decrypts valuable to operational planning and decision. They succeeded throughout the war and beyond in keeping the secret that the Allies were reading Hitler's messages within an hour of their origination. What an accomplishment while simultaneously utilizing that information in strategic judgements!<br /><br />On the whole I found the little book interesting but not fascinating. Winterbotham is far too modest and in some passages too vague. He tells very little of his personal life, feelings and conflicts. For instance, he lightly brushes over how his very early spying days contributed to the dissolution of his first marriage. By Winterbotham's description at the end of his days he simply drifted into being a small landowner and simple farmer, without much fame, glory or riches to indicate his sacrifice, skill and daring were ever really appreciated by England or other Allies.<br /><br />If accurate, how unfair and sad. If not exactly accurate, an example of how Winterbotham's modesty perhaps squandered the best opportunity to lay bare this important part of WWII history for future generations. He was there. He lived the James Bond lifestyle. He should have told it more clearly when he had the opportunity. A biographer will never get it as exact.	2005-01-30
US	49645255	R2OG38DFNN7XXW	0786884460	680967816	The Ice Master: The Doomed 1913 Voyage of the Karluk	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Incredible Endurance	The above editorial review and product description give a completely adequate synopsis of this book. I thoroughly enjoyed this spellbinding true story, engagingly written by Jennifer Niven. The incredible situations this diverse group of personalities attempted to endure is phenomenal. It is a grim, gritty, heroic tale where courage and daring are equally on display with cowardice and treachery. I could not put it down. There are no places where Jennifer allows the story to drag.	2005-01-30
US	49645255	R2EQKFD8AN0E2G	0140067485	503302609	The Puzzle Palace: Inside the National Security Agency, America's Most Secret Intelligence Organization	Books	4	6	10	N	N	Pulling Back the Curtain	Put this book in time context. When Bamford wrote about the NSA in 1982, only a few Americans had ever heard of the super secret spy agency. I venture that most were unaware of its existence, mission or history, including the fact that its dark budget superceded all other U.S. spy agencies combined (yes even the CIA). It's release caused a little consternation because NSA was getting exposed for the first time. I was concerned that it might be too revelatory but nonetheless I read with fascination.  <br /> <br />Bamford does an excellent job of chronicling the origins of NSA and pulling back the curtain to display the leaders, culture, methodologies, operations, budget, successes, failures, employees and other components of this signals intelligence vacuum pump. It was at the time possibly the only avenue for the average citizen to discover how, what, when and where the NSA conducted its business. You would have been surprised to learn how sophisticated the palace was as far back as 1952. (Capturing the cockpit conversation of the Russian pilots who shot down the KLM flight during the Reagan presidency was one example of NSA's unique abilities.) It is like seeing the B-2 bomber unveiled and then realizing it is the culmination of 20 years development. Wonder what they are capable of now? <br /> <br />I'm glad we lead the world in such intelligence gathering and today's events make the work of NSA more valuable than ever. The best and brightest of our mathmeticians, code breakers, techno-geeks and others work there. Thank goodness they work for us. With the advent of the internet, more detailed information on NSA may be readily available. But if you want to read one book on NSA, this should be your introduction and base station.	2005-01-26
US	49645255	RVFM8T2G5G23C	0060736682	254771706	Rewriting History	Books	4	21	25	N	Y	Morris' Analysis Always Unflinching	Dick Morris as a pollster and strategist is unequaled. I think many try to minimize his analysis and insight but his track record is unparalleled. He is always dead on and he usually tells it frankly and uncompromisingly. He knows both Hillary and Bill Clinton better than most. Of the crowd who has been up close and personal with the Clintons, Morris is probably the only one who will tell the unflinching truth. People like Begala never will.<br /><br />With that in mind, I highly recommend this book. Morris takes Hillary's flattering version of herself to task in this work. He refutes the public image she has carefully honed and penetrates to the real Hillary, particularly the political chameleon that she has been over the past 25 years. He provides specific examples, which have weight because they will stand fact checking and scrutiny. He writes in a conversational, easily readable style.<br /><br />For example, he shows how Hillary took pains to morph into a Martha Stewart housewife and mother, when some of her feminist comments alienated a large portion of women in this country. Morris discusses her role in the firing of civil servants at the White House Travel Office and a host of other lesser and greater scandals engulfing the Clinton presidency. By taking apart Hillary's version of herself, the public persona she wants you to accept and which is endorsed by and promulgated by willing synchophants, Morris accurately predicts what Hillary will be as a U. S. Senator and possible President.<br /><br />Besides being an unflinching look at Hillary's past political life, the book is prescient in its anticipation of Hillary's future political steps. Recently for example, Hillary has staked out a more conservative position on immigration reform than most conservatives. How's that for beginning another transformation? After reading Morris' book you will know that is fully in keeping with her character. Become what the polls and the public expect. The facade is not real.real.	2005-01-17
US	49645255	R1CTQ6ZUOZOOI	047167186X	168106425	Banking on Baghdad: Inside Iraq's 7,000-Year History of War, Profit, and Conflict	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Iraq; Center of the Political Universe?	This is a well researched, fascinating historical summary of the history of Mesapotamia, particularly Iraq. Edwin Black traces the internal and external influences on the region for the past 7,000 years. Those influences include imperialists, dynasties, geography, wealth, Islam, Christianity, holy men, holy warriors, fratricide, homicide, despots, slavery, conquerors, traitors, treaties, agreements, broken promises, barbarism, savagery, Sunnis, Shias, local politics, international politics, intrigue, war, profit, oil, financiers and much more. Baghdad's history has affected everyone. The weave runs through the likes of the Mongols, Muhammad, Lawrence of Arabia and Churchill, from Constantinople to Hitler, right down to the U. S. infantry soldier on the ground there today. <br /> <br />Black has taken on a project of epic proportions. In the book's introduction he confesses that a complete study of Iraq history would fill volumes and volumes. While he has tried to reduce the vast data to a readable portion, he hopes that you are spurred to your own investigation and study if so inclined. Nevertheless, you will be appropriately dazzled by the exhaustive research done by Black's world wide teams. The unprecedented access to private, university and governmental archives bestows Black's study with a unique, meticulous, scrupulous originality and veracity. <br /> <br />Clearly, oil has dictated the steps of Iraq in the modern era. Black makes that point convincing, not partisan. It is an obscure, murky trail that he follows and in the middle of the book Black bogs down in too much detail about the oil business, fraught with broken political and economic agreements. Particularly when he traces the involvement of shadowy C. S. Gulbenkian in the discovery and development of Iraq's vast oil deposits. Here Black had too much information and too much detail. His point was to illuminate the intrigue that infests every aspect of dealing with the various stakeholders in the area.This takes up a large portion of the middle of the book, but it is tedious and leaves you feeling the story is going off track. That is the only drawback. Still, I had to give it the highest rating. <br /> <br />There are marvelous similarities in today's headlines and past events in the area. Previous Jihad against Britain covering the same towns you read about today - Mosul, Najaf, Karbala. Brutal butchery, beheadings, dragging corpses through the streets. Sunnia against Shia. Retribution for cooperating with foreigners and infidels. Discouragement at civilian and military losses. Invasion, conquest, loyalty, treachery. Payout, sellout, locked out. It is all there. <br /> <br />This book should be read by every U. S. politician wrestling with the issues facing us in Iraq and it should be in every public library. You cannot understand today's headlines and events without this book. But caveat emptor..I found this book discouraging in predicting any democratic success for Iraq. I don't think Black intended to be discouraging at all. Simply illuminating and adding something to the historical record. However, it is never more clear that history repeats itself. <br /> <br />I strongly urge you to read this book.	2005-01-17
US	49645255	R1ZZ5VSOJ0ESUH	0060524073	583097215	My Life Among the Serial Killers: Inside the Minds of the World's Most Notorious Murderers	Books	1	14	19	N	N	Bunk Science	I wish I had read the other reviewers on this book before purchasing. I was deeply disappointed that the book didn't live up to the title or flyleaf. Several times I almost threw it away but ploughed on hoping that Dr. Morrison's effort had a real point.<br /><br />Don't waste your time, it is complete garbage. The good doctor is certified in general, child, adolescent and forensic psychiatry but she is a terrible writer. Furthermore, she is too pretentious and self-absorbed to be objective.<br /><br />Morrison's introduction to this genre of forensic psychiatry stemmed from a detective who arranged for her to hypnotize and interview Richard Macek. According to Dr. Morrison, \\"that's one of the primary things I learned about serial killers from my time with Richard Macek. They will be whatever you think they should be\\". Read the remainder of the book and you realize she didn't learn that at all.<br /><br />Also, this is what she says about the detective. \\"It was obvious to me that Tomaselli had his own agenda - getting a conviction -and that he wasn't interested in hearing much of a report on my progress with Richard Macek, let alone any details that didn't serve his own needs. He really wasn't listening to what I had to say about Macek. I felt most of the meeting was useless and was glad when it was over.\\"<br /><br />This is bogus, psuedo-scientific pablum. Morrison offers her own aimless wanderings, through interviews and correspondence, with certain serial killers to forward what she considers revelatory theories about their psyche and motivations. She proposes that serial killers are born. The exhibits for her thesis are only those with whom she has been granted extraordinary access, such as John Wayne Gacy. She hasn't completed any exhaustive studies. Her sample population isn't even representative of the whole necessarily. With Gacy for instance, she offers some rambling correspondence between herself and Gacy, in which he demonstrated his massive ego and played Morrison like a fiddle. Her taking the stand at Gacy's trial will just make you angry.<br /><br />If Morrison has been on a career mission to discover the reasons why serial killers are compelled to murder, then she has totally wasted the unique access she has had to some of the most notorious. She has never apparently developed any novel scientific measurements or methodologies. You have to take her word for it. Why? Well, if you listen carefully the list would include that she is educated, earnest, attractive, arrogant, petulant. Not the stuff of science.<br /><br />Along the way she takes swipes at prosecutors and law enforcement, while occasionally digressing into gratuitous and self-aggrandizing statements, ala Kathy Lee Gifford, about her husband, children, home in the burbs and such. Statements that have nothing to do with delving deep into the minds of serial killers but are intended to humanize the doctor and again show how earnest and committed she is.	2005-01-09
US	49645255	R2NT6OOT184ZVQ	1932714006	696851145	Champion Hill: Decisive Battle for Vicksburg	Books	5	3	3	N	N	The Good Stuff!	Often, civil war battle studies disappoint. Not enough detail or enough maps/pictures to visually augment the narrative and orient the reader. Frequently, gobs of assumption with little scholarship or research. Sometimes a prejudice about a particular commander or ignorance about a particular manuever will spoil the whole treatise. <br /> <br />This isn't the case with Tim Smith's definitive coverage of the Battle for Vicksburg, with emphasis on the Champion Hill Battle. He gives you the context but hones in on the Champion Hill struggle as the prelude to the inevitable surrender of Vicksburg. He is objective, articulate, descriptive, precise and interesting in the narrative but he doesn't leave you behind somewhere in the ravines and thickets east of Vicksburg either. <br /> <br />This is a battle study. And you can use the book with current photos and historical maps to study the battle. I'm not sure that anyone could improve on this volume.	2005-01-09
US	49645255	R14P6158BF0S0N	0141001828	624836488	In the Heart of the Sea: The Tragedy of the Whaleship Essex	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Fascinating Saga	This is an NYT bestseller and Nat'l Book Award winner. You'll know the kudos are well deserved after reading. Nathaniel Philbrick does an excellent job in recreating the Nantucket whaling industry, the ship Essex and the terrible tragedy which befell it.  <br /> <br />It is the best of writing and history when the old becomes new again, the past comes alive, the unknown becomes familiar. Apparently, the story of the Essex was well known in the early 1800s and it may have formed the basis of Melville's epic Moby Dick. Somewhere all that got lost to history but Philbrick gives it a heartbeat again. <br /> <br />The research is scrupulous. The narrative flows easily and avoids becoming pedantic, while still imparting rich detail. The book is just the right size for a quick read but the emotion and the gripping scenes of life and death will stay with the reader. The ordeal is palpable and fascinating. <br /> <br />If you like this story, I recommend Mutiny on the Globe by Thomas Heffernan, a whale ship story of the same period.	2005-01-09
US	49645255	R2DR4HUJCUQIQS	0142002917	125161689	Mutiny on the Globe: The Fatal Voyage of Samuel Comstock	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Savagery on the High Seas	I found this story interesting and the author's rendition engaging. Unlike other reviewers, I was interested in Heffernan's exploration of Comstock's physical and mental development for what light it sheds on his subsequent fantasy and savagery. This earth has seen psychopaths before today's headlines and we may yet learn how they emerge by examining those current and historical in as much detail as possible.  <br /> <br />Availability of original and valid source material could not have been substantial and so I appreciated Heffernan's effort at accuracy. It is true that Comstock disappears from the story early but I would have been disappointed if Heffernan had not followed the mutiny survivors' stories to the end of their lives. To follow them was to complete the tale. Obviously their lives had to be defined forever after by what they experienced at Comstock's hand on the high sea. <br /> <br />If you like this story and the whaling period, then I recommend In the Heart of the Sea by Nathaniel Philbrick.	2005-01-08
US	49645255	R2C89UU4SSWWHS	1882810317	631895385	Triumph And Defeat: The Vicksburg Campaign	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Personal Visit by the Chief Historian	Approach this slim volume as if the Chief Historian for the Vicksburg National Military Park was giving you a personal tour and you won't be disappointed. It is composed of ten essays that cover the important events and incidents of the battle for and seige of Vicksburg. There are a number of illustrations and maps that illuminate the text and anecdotal images narratively entertwined to add the personal touch to historical events.  <br /> <br />I would have enjoyed it even more had the author taken the time to go ahead and write the full volume this could have been. The essays are stand alone and somewhat repetitious. He knows the material better than perhaps any other. Make this one composite, whole narrative and throw in the kitchen sink. Nevertheless, if you're interested in the battle for Vicksburg, this will provide a decent overview that doesn't fall down to the minute level.	2004-11-14
US	49645255	R7VCF16RPTGEO	1591840449	540959639	We Shall Not Fail: The Inspiring Leadership of Winston Churchill	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Stretching It Somewhat	I am a Churchill fan and have read much by many on the subject. This book might serve as a primer on Churchill. It captures some of his distinguishing characteristics. While some of them relate to leadership, others were just extensions of his personality. He was a bullish, long winded, contrarian, egoist. Without a doubt he was also an extraordinary leader and a man for his time during WWII. <br /> <br />Unfortunately, in some chapters Celia Sandys takes a personality style or quirk and tries to stretch it into an inspiring nugget of leadership truth for the masses. She gives anecodtal evidence of a particular facet of Churchill's outlook and then ends each chapter with Churchillian Principles. They are meant to convey that he had distilled these principles and lived by them, however, there are many biographies out there that will show you the complete Churchill. He was a leader. He was stubborn, relentless and fully taken with himself. But let's don't over do it. These were manifestations of WHO Churchill was, not leadership principles. Churchill wouldn't have changed any of them even if he discovered they weren't exceptional leadership traits. He simply would have continued on undeterred. <br /> <br />Still, I would recommend this book to any not familiar with Churchill and who may not be up for a lengthy biography. You'll get enough for a flavor of the man or you may be intrigued enough to conduct more serious study about him. I don't think you will be able to take any one of the \\"Churchillian principles\\" and infuse it into your personal management or leadership style.	2004-10-23
US	49645255	R2BMIGD5UEX3GB	0807846694	211418628	Pea Ridge: Civil War Campaign in the West (Civil War America)	Books	5	3	3	N	Y	Covering the Obscure	The Trans-Missisippi and Western theaters of the Civil War have until now received short shrift. Shea and Hess have thrown a contender in the ring to offset that balance. I thoroughly enjoyed this book for its narrative style, attention to detail without bogging down, the descriptions of primary characters in the campaign and for illuminating the dynamic forces and decisions that shaped the battle. Very readable. Their research and accuracy lays the foundation for a complete treatment of the Pea Ridge clash and brings it out of obscurity. If you're interested in Generals Curtis or Van Dorn or interested in Arkansas and Missouri Civil War history, then you will not be disappointed with this gem.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	R1MMKC8YUHXFLL	081171506X	410398484	Bloody Bill Anderson: The Short, Savage Life of a Civil War Guerrilla	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Title Says It All	Bloody Bill Anderson was a product of savagery in the early days of the Civil War's influence on Kansas and Missouri. The border war there was bloody and brutal. An eye for an eye conflict that escalated beyond anyone's imagination. The region was devastated. The atrocities that men were willing to commit against each other on both sides of the fratricide in that area are horrendous. Rocketing out of that soup came Bloody Bill. He is the prototype of a deadly psychopath. He was sadistic, ruthless and devoid of conscience. <br /> <br />Castel and Goodrich have outdone themselves in taking what little historical data is available to present as thorough an accounting of Bill Anderson's life as you're likely to find. They hone in on two of his most infamous rampages around Centralia, Missouri. You'll believe you were an eyewitness. However, they don't fabricate the stories or engage in fiction. The book is thoroughly researched and very credible in every detail. They could only have exceeded in this endeavor if there were more firsthand historical data to draw from. <br /> <br />Fact is Bloody Bill was a real individual and these events really did transpire. You will be transfixed even as you are horrified.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	R1EZBW23XHCQSE	078581552X	968000124	This Hallowed Ground: The Story of the Union Side of the Civil War	Books	5	6	7	N	Y	Excellent Title and Narrative	If you're interested in the Civil War enough to browse this book, go ahead and snag it. To get a grasp on this period of our history, you must read Catton. He tells the overall story in the style almost of a novel. He is accurate and factual. Never fear. But this isn't reading history as you might remember. Catton will get your attention, draw you in and help you to feel some of the myriad of emotions that coursed through our ancestors on both sides of this conflict. He made me understand that wherever they trod was indeed hallowed ground after their passing.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	RBPVA2Q6GEZMD	0873384768	430483571	Bloody Dawn: The Story of the Lawrence Massacre	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Detailed Look at This Atrocity	This is the best coverage of the 1863 Lawrence Massacre that I have ever found to date. Goodrich does an excellent job in thoroughly covering the atrocity perpetrated by Quantrill and his raiders under the Black Flag. Imagine 200 men and boys slaughtered. Even in today's world, those would be headlines in every paper. <br /> <br />Quantrill is a fascinating subject on many levels. He was clearly a leader, a good military strategist, courageous and crafty. He was also a liar, who was ruthless, brutal and deadly. In conducting this raid on Lawrence he was daring beyond any Union expectations.   <br /> <br />Goodrich covers the event from beginning to end in such a dramatic and interesting style that you will not be able to put the book down. I got to know many of the victims. The book is so informative that genealogists, historians and the curious will find many veins for further exploration and inquiry. Goodrich will make you believe that you were an eyewitness that day in Lawrence.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	RZ4IZW54X0LU	0399149325	994558302	Portrait of a Killer: Jack the Ripper--Case Closed	Books	4	3	6	N	Y	Well, Maybe...	I've read a lot by Cornwell and I admire her research and enthusiasm for this subject as well as her other books. This book particularly delights in uncovering and revealing many details that, if previously known, were not widely known. She makes a strong, circumstantial case that Sickert was in fact Jack the Ripper but I don't feel it reaches the level of a case that would win in court. There is way too much assumption and pushing the circumstances toward a pre-conceived end. We'll never know for sure who was Jack the Ripper. But because of that fact, this book has merits and certainly provides a lot of entertainment. It is an engaging revisiting of a subject that still fascinates. Cornwell adds to and doesn't detract from that fascination. On the other hand, Cornwell is certain she has the offender and she tries so earnestly to persuade the reader. I followed and I could see it with some straining of incredulity but in the end I just can't buy it. I have to go forward still wondering who was Jack the Ripper and what were his motives.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	R1VVOSRJ5MSSNY	0394704681	236128154	The Wisdom of Insecurity	Books	2	21	64	N	Y	Too Enlightened For Me	Strangely enough I found my way to this book because a journalist quoted a portion in an economic article. I was intrigued and maybe I had a pre-conceived notion of what it was about.  <br /> <br />At the risk of being labeled a candidate for remedial enlightenment 101, I'll be candid to say I found this book too convoluted and mystical. I just didn't get it. I kept trying to be enlightened but found myself disappointed at each turn of the page. At the end of my journey, I was glad to discard the book. I wouldn't recommend it to anyone.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	RT6W9348UXQDO	1842122916	367869358	Never Call Retreat (American Civil War Trilogy, Vol. 3)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Moving History	Catton's trilogy is excellent at delivering an overview of the Civil War to you. His narrative is descriptive and flowing. He is accurate and provides the general and the anecdotal. Because of the scope of this trilogy, it is necessarily broad. So, you won't get a detailed, blow by blow account of incidents or battle order. What you will get is dynamic, moving history. Your interest for further study will be picqued.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	R2X2M51DJBTV2R	0785812636	895062191	Grant Takes Command	Books	5	1	1	N	Y	Catton on Grant	Catton may arguably be the pre-eminent Civil War historian. Here he describes, illuminates and clarifies Ulysses Grant better than any other. He demonstrates in his narrative how Grant took command of all the Union forces and marshalled those entities toward a single purpose, the defeat of the rebellion. I think his analysis and evaluation of Grant as a leader, military strategist, gambler and arch foe of Rober E. Lee is irrefutable. Catton's style reads easily and is totally absorbing and engrossing. I dare say at the end of Catton's treatment of Grant, you will feel that you knew Grant personally.	2004-10-06
US	49645255	R2JFGN2HY9FPXB	081731072X	452220457	Stars Fell on Alabama (Library Alabama Classics)	Books	2	10	22	N	Y	Fictionalized History	I often wondered why falling stars appeared on Alabama license plates and why Dylan sang about the same. Ultimately I found my way to this book, written by Carl Carmer over 60 years ago. The answer to my original questions are within the book. The forward is perhaps more interesting and revealing, exposing the strength and Achilles heal of Carmer's work. Carmer was writing about the Alabama he experienced at the time he resided there. It is a snapshot of history and was very controversial when originally printed. So, it has some literary and historical value. However, many of the characters and incidents are composed of amalgamated individuals and conglomerated incidents. So, it is more representational like Tom Sawyer and Huck Finn than an accurate recounting of actual events. Allegedly, Carmer was trying to mask actual places and people to protect their privacy but it left me questioning the authenticity and veracity of the whole. It took the edge off, making the book much less appealing and leaving me disinterested in places. Is it fiction or non-fiction? Is it exaggerated or not? How much to rely on this thin ice is what the reader will have to consider and that will be a distraction throughout.	2004-10-04
US	49645255	R2LJJ56JHFGQQS	0066212855	817493742	Krakatoa: The Day the World Exploded	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Nothing Left to Be Said About It	Winchester does a fabulous job of not only covering the volcanic explosion of Krakatoa but also immersing the reader in the historical, geographic, political, social and economic context of the event. It is Winchester's story telling style and I find it fascinating. I learned a tremendous amount of history from this page turner. I learned about the telegraph cable, the Dutch West Indies, the people who suffered and died in the eruption. I also learned about why Indonesia is currently in the news with Islamic terrorists attacks. I cannot put his stories down. If Winchester mentions something that sparks your interest for further study or research, don't worry. He'll cover that for you as well. It is as if during his research for the primary story, various other trails present themselves. Only he won't sit down to write until he explores those trails as well. Therefore, just about the time in reading that you think, \\"gee, I'll have to come back to that and explore further\\", Winchester will tell you all about it. When you read Winchester, you get that satisfied full feeling that follows an all day Thanksgiving feast. A word of caution for the light, day-trader reader. Winchester's books are grand and detailed. There may be places that the bulk becomes too pedantic for you.	2004-10-04
US	49645255	R2RS2FPUEALKLI	0971992908	684347019	Quantrill's Thieves	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Interesting and Useful	For all the civil war and partisan ranger buffs especially, this book is interesting. It offers useful new information and a completely different angle on Quantrill's Raiders. The title comes from a document, lifted from one of Quantrill's band, that amounted to a roster. When copied by Union soldiers, one titled the roster Quantrill's Thieves. Quantrill was a fascinating individual and an adept leader. The author's effort here is to provide some color and description about his followers not found in other accounts. He draws on local records, some genealogy and other data to flesh out the members of Quantrill's band listed on the roster. In some cases he makes an educated guess about the individual but in most it appears he has identified the person. Why were they drawn to Quantrill more than other partisan leaders? Why did they follow and trust him implicitly? Who were the faces behind some of the daring raids? Who were the men behind atrocities like the Lawrence Massacre? If you have been reading about Quantrill, you should read this book.	2004-10-04
US	49645255	RQD3G7ZT0K2NX	0930031024	306552368	The Man Who Planted Trees	Books	4	5	7	N	Y	Uplifting Allegory	A wonderfully captivating and uplifting story. If you read it to the small children in your life and don't tell them otherwise they will believe it to be the truth. They may also be inspired (and you might as well) because the story is a detailed, rich allegory that tugs at the heart strings. I had read this fable a long time ago. One day the title popped into my head and I just had to acquire the book and read it again. I wasn't disappointed. Any time you read this story, your positive outlook will be enhanced.	2004-10-04
US	49645255	R1OSFE1R2WK8WH	0965434419	148709607	Bias: A CBS Insider Exposes How the Media Distort the News	Books	3	8	9	N	Y	Some Cheese With That Whine?	Bernard Goldberg is a highly respected journalist. The fact that he is and worked at CBS for 28 years makes this book about media bias a must read. He was clear about how bias exists and manifests itself at the three major television networks and various other newspaper and magazine outlets. He offered numerous examples but in some instances they don't seem to be the weightiest or juiciest that could be found. After 28 years I would have thought his grab bag of illustrations to make his point would have been running over. Plus, there is a noticeable element of whine and petulance to the entire book that made him a little repetitious, irritating and gives opportunity for critics to dismiss his fundamental premise as a flight of fancy or sour grapes. His attempts at humour fall like bad jokes from a standup. Overall the book is good but I was disappointed that it wasn't something to really get excited and write home about. Perhaps I was expecting too much.	2004-10-04
US	49645255	R2ZLIS1314OX9D	0805074481	773936746	An Army at Dawn: The War in North Africa, 1942-1943, Volume One of the Liberation Trilogy	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Loved It	I agree with all the positive reviews of this book. People who have said it better than I could. The book is fascinating and easily digestible. A history that is a real page turner. Hard to put down. I can't wait for the other volumes in this trilogy. I found the vignettes of individuals and particular firefights to be illustrative and yet Rick manages to show the whole equally as well. He causes me to want to read more, know more and consume more about the people, the period, the events. Nothing pedantic about this work.	2004-06-26
