US	49641892	R3MOMW6U3RSBAB	074349654X	244865575	Unity (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	one of the best in the series	This installment is simply amazing.  There were hardly any dull moments in the entire book and I can not think of a single flaw, which is saying a lot because I very seldom don't have anything bad to point out about what I read (fiction or non-fiction).   <br /> <br />After reading the Deep Space Nine series for a while, I've developed a good sense of the personalities of the different characters.  It's almost as if I've come to know these characters on a personal basis.  So when something is written about anyone in the series out of character, I can tell immediately.  S.D. Perry writes with consistency and also knows how to make the drama on board Deep Space Nine evolve and hold any Deep Space Nine fan's interest to the end.  This is one of the most captivating books in the series I've read so far.  One should not skip any books in the re-launch series and read this because every book in the series starting with Avatar leads up to this one.  There is action, intrigue, drama and even humor in this book.  The conclusion opens up all kinds of interesting follow ups.  I've heard people say that they don't like DS9 because it seems too much like a soap opera or space opera.  To them I say that you can't make up any kind of story without characters.  There are always interesting technological things, strange phenomena and aliens in every DS9 book as you'd find in all Science Fiction.  What sets DS9 and other Star Trek books apart is that the characters we've come to know very well add extra dimensions to the stories and make things much more interesting.	2005-08-25
US	49641892	R7UN19Q7Y71PW	0471430293	289993092	I Know What You're Thinking: Using the Four Codes of Reading People to Improve Your Life	Books	4	28	31	N	N	this is a good book, but it isn't the full story	In preparation for a speech I was about to give for Toastmasters, I was looking for Desmond Morris's famous book \\"Manwatching\\".  Instead of finding \\"Manwatching\\", I found this one and decided to check it out.  My first observation on this book was that it looked too watered down as if a bunch of little tid bits of information were just placed in a book and listed.  After reading further into the content however, I was really impressed.  To me, it really doesn't matter if the author has two PhDs.  The important thing is the content and how it's presented. <br /> <br />For a person who has two PhDs, Lillian Glass sure does write in a simple and easy to understand style.  A teenager or preteen can understand the information in this book which is good.  On the other hand however, I think in an effort to be less scholarly she tends to oversimplify things.  For example... she writes in her book that rubbing or scratching the nose is a sign that the person is being deceptive or lying.  This is not always the case however.  Rubbing or scratching the nose can mean that the person is unsure of something or that he/she is under a great deal of stress.  There are other things contained in this book that I would strongly suggest that people be very careful about.  Don't jump to conclusions based on one or two little gestures... give it some time and study a person before jumping to conclusions.  Use the code the author suggests (speech, voice, body, face).  If you are really serious about becoming an expert in detecting lies and reading people, I would also suggest that you get the book \\"Conquering Deception\\" by Jeff Nance.	2005-08-11
US	49641892	R2CPTKM6UYDVQC	0671784943	666973728	The Left Hand of Destiny, Book 2 (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	solid characters and a good story	Everyone knows what has to happen in this miniseries, but the question is how will Martok get his planet back and who will have to die in the process?  It was a bit surprising if not shocking who was killed in this installment.  I just thought that the Star Trek authors would find some other interesting things to do with those characters.  I never knew that Martok had any children, so that was interesting to read.  I found the story of Pharh (the Klingon raised Faringi) rather touching and his relationship with Martok was one of the best parts of the whole book. <br /> <br />I don't know, but I thought that Klingons never smiled.  If Kingons aren't supposed to smile, then this book isn't consistent with the Kilingon personality. <br /> <br />In a nutshell this was a good book, but not all that engaging or maybe I just wasn't that interested in it out of the anticipation of the next book in the series \\"Unity\\".	2005-07-21
US	49641892	R1TCR2UJF2ZSGS	1400046548	650146861	The Finishing School: Earning the Navy SEAL Trident	Books	3	24	36	N	N	good, but not as good as The Warrior Elite	SQT or SEAL Qualification Training is a four or five month program which SEAL candidates must pass before earning the Navy SEAL trident which is what The Finishing School is all about.  After BUDS, which is six months long, SEAL candidates go to airborne school and then to a station for SQT.  After SQT they have more training with their team, which can be as long as 18 additional months before they are considered deployable.  After a deployment tour of duty, they are given some time to rest but after that they have more training to do which depends on their specialty.  Do want to be a Navy SEAL?  Get used to being cold, wet and tired half the time.  Don't think this is a bunch of fun and games.  <br /> <br />One of the things I didn't like about this book is that I expected it to be a sequel to \\"The Warrior Elite\\".  The author didn't keep track of the graduates of class 228 from his previous book.  I also wasn't particularly fond of the author's style of writing this book, but maybe it just has to do with the nature of SEAL training.  SEAL training may seem exciting on the surface, but it is very boring and brutal work.  The trainees work with very little sleep and are forced to endure all kinds of hardship with the weather.   <br /> <br />SQT consists of the meat and potatoes of SEAL operational tactics.  In SQT the candidates learn hand to hand combat, close quarters defense, field medicine, firearms (which they must become experts at), land navigation, combat swimming, demolitions, etc.  Based on the SEAL trainees scores and performance, some of them get hand picked for additional specialized training (i.e. snipers, demolition experts, medics, etc.) <br /> <br />Throughout the book there are some bios of SEAL trainees which I found quite interesting.  One SEAL trainee was a PhD in philosophy from Oxford University.  Another one was 126 pounds and 5'6\\" which really goes to show that you can't always tell by looking at a person's physique whether or not they couldbe a Navy SEAL.  The author made a point in his previous book that the big burly types are often some of the first men to drop out of the program.  The smaller men tend to be more successful.  SEALs are like triathletes... they must be able to run and swim well and have good physical strength.  Triathletes are mostly rather small in stature.  <br /> <br />I'm against a lot of what the US military does and is doing, but I have to admire the top notch training that these guys go through.  It's an inspirational book in the sense that it teaches us to look deep into ourselves and realize that things are not as hard as they seem and through determination, heart and spirit, anything is possible.	2005-06-18
US	49641892	R3IEEG9KJLFXF5	0553140175	924815718	The Simple Solution to Rubik's Cube	Books	5	21	22	N	N	it works, it's all about patterns	I remember tinkering around with Rubik's Cube back in high school but was never all that serious about solving it.  Recently, I've decided to pick up a cube, get a book to learn some patterns and then finally solve it.  With the aid of this book, I solved the cube in less than 30 minutes.  I solved two thirds of the cube without using any of the patterns in the book.  The last fews steps to solving the cube are kind of tricky but the book explains it very well and has easy to memorize patterns.  So with some practice, I can see how someone can easily solve the cube in less than a minute by using the patterns in this book or variations of them.	2005-05-26
US	49641892	R17N73IL6NDAAX	0060182520	784957631	The Second Brain : The Scientific Basis of Gut Instinct and a Groundbreaking New Understanding of Nervous Disorders of the Stomach and Intestines	Books	3	19	21	N	N	very fascinating, but no index and no glossary	The enteric nervous system or the nervous system of the gut is what this book is about.  It's not an easy read for people who have no background in science.  Before reading this book, one should have a good understanding of ligands, receptors and neurotransmitters because the author doesn't do a very good job of explaining the basics.  What makes this book especially difficult to read is the fact that it's highly technical and he uses medical jargon throughout yet he doesn't have a glossary nor an index.  With that said, I think there's a tremendous amount of fascinating information in this book worth pondering on.  People who are interested in science and medicine and like to read about how scientists go through the process of learning and discovery should read this book.    The main part started out how the author struggled to prove that serotonin was a neurotransmitter in the bowel.  Then he went on to explain some of the complexities of the enteric nervous system in detail while asking questions, making more discoveries and explaining what others in the field are doing.  I was mostly focused on the beautiful details describing the enteric nervous system.  I don't think people realize (or care) that the entire lining of the digestive system from the esophagus all the way to the anus is lined with well over 100,000,000 cells that not only receive information but secrete chemicals that communicate with other parts of the body as well.  The mere fact that there are more nerve cells in the bowel than in the spine tells us that digesting food is no simple matter.  The enteric nervous system is highly complex because it has to coordinate and process all kinds of information not to mention chemically analyse its contents and secreting the right kinds of chemicals in the exact amounts to digest food and to propel it though the intestines.  The propulsion of fecal matter in the rectum mainly just involves the enteric system and muscles of the colon, but it communicates with the spine and brain to coordinate its activities. Sever a connection between the three and you can lose your defecatory and urinary reflex or lose control over them completely.  There is a storehouse of other interesting information in this book.  One other interesting fact brought up in the book is that the surface membrane on one square centimeter of human intestine is enough ot cover a doubles tennis court.  I imagine that the entire surface membrane lining of all of the intestines would at least cover a football field.    Reading books like this helps me to keep things in their proper contexts by making me ponder on the perfection of God's creation.  When we go on exile from the world for a while, it makes us better equipped to tackle the problems of everyday life.	2005-05-26
US	49641892	RG4UT9779PMAG	0684846349	16859864	Molecules Of Emotion: The Science Behind Mind-Body Medicine	Books	4	10	11	N	N	inspirational, informative and thought provoking	After watching the movie \\"What the Bleep...\\" where the author of this book is featured, I felt like reading some more about the bio-chemical nature of our emotions.  I found this book inspirational in that it's largely autobiographical.  Much of the book is written in the first person where Dr. Pert talks of her trials and tribulations in a male dominated area.  She talks of people who helped her tremendously and others who tried to steal her fame and cut her down (as well as some who actually did).  I think many people think that hard work alone will get them where they'd like to go in life.  But nothing could be further from the truth.  As illustrated in this book, so much depends on who you know, who likes you, and who's willing to help you.  There is no question in my mind that Candice Pert is a brilliant scientist.  But I seriously doubt if she could have discovered the opiate receptor had she not met certain key people in her life.   <br /> <br />In light of the recent talk about women being inferior scientists than men, this book is a must read for young women interested in going into the sciences.  Candice Pert pulls no punches and tells it like it is. <br /> <br />Chapters 7 through 9 were the most informative and thought provoking to me.  There is a wealth of information on how our emotions are mere results of chemical peptides latching on to receptors of cells in the body.  Our emotions are also mechanisms for activating certain neuronal circuits.  When certain neuronal circuits are activated, the mood or feelings we have can facilitate certain memories associated with that mood or feeling.  This is called state dependent recall or dissociated states of learning.  After reading this, I asked myself whether or not certain memories or things which remind us of certain experiences can evoke certain moods, feelings or behaviors.  After reading more and thinking about it, I see no reason why not which is interesting because that gives a strong basis for such things as snap judgements and \\"instincts\\".	2005-04-23
US	49641892	R8I2QG1JPZ84P	0671784935	465969028	The Left Hand of Destiny, Book 1 (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	"a new day must dawn for our people..."	In perhaps the most dramatic and memorable scene ever made in the television history of \\"Star Trek Deep Space Nine\\", Worf defeated Gowran in a duel during the dominion war and installed General Martok as the new chancellor of the Klingon Empire.  Martok reluctantly accepted the position.  <br /> <br />This book starts off where the final television episode left off.  We join Martok and Worf as they head to Qo'noS to have a meeting with the Emperor and to be officially installed as chancellor and ambasidor respectively.  Chaos then erupts as the Great Hall is attacked and thousands of innocent civilians are killed.  Not long after, they discover that there is a mutinizer who has an entourage and considers it his duty kill Martok and Worf.  Not only are Martok and Worf considered federation puppets, but they are \\"low born\\".  Much of the story focuses on how Martok, Worf, Sirella (Martok's wife) and Alexander (Worf's son) struggle for survival in a world that seems to be rapidly turning against them.   <br /> <br />This first book starts things off well with compelling characters and good action. Some of the fights and battles are quite graphic.	2005-04-05
US	49641892	RQRK7VTENT8FD	1883319749	236150075	Sabaki Method: Karate in the Inner Circle	Books	4	5	6	N	N	the inner circle	Circular motion is used in virtually all combat disciplines and sports.  Wrestling, Judo, Boxing, Basketball, Ice Skating, Football etc. all utilize circular motion.  Any athlete and or martial arts practitioner will tell you that circular motion is useful for a number of situations.  The focus of this book is on Karate or more specifically a style of Karate called \\"Enshin\\".  The premise behind Enshin Karate is that a smaller fighter can overcome a larger and stronger fighter by using his strength and momentum against him.  One uses the opponent's momentum by utilizing circular motion to move out of the way of the attack, move to the opponent's blind spot and then counter.  If one uses his imagination, the techniques are virtually limitless.  One must keep in mind however that the techniques in this book are Enshin Karate techniques which means everything done is under that system's rules.   <br /> <br />In most styles of Karate, you aren't allowed to grab but Enshin allows one-handed grabbing in order to generate more leverage from your opponent and to use circular motion better.  The techniques of Enshin Karate are indeed beautiful, but most of these techniques are incompatible with other styles of Karate because of the no grabbing rules.  So what works for Enshin Karate fighting will not work for Taekwondo, Kyokushin or point fighting.  The idea of circular motion however is good to keep in mind for any martial artist especially when you are going against a larger opponent.	2005-03-15
US	49641892	RUBHFSU6B7DD9	0743448383	611629404	Rising Son (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	3	0	3	N	N	a Star Trek adventure/fantasy	For the past few books, Jake has been seldom mentioned.  Back on DS9, no one has a clue as to where he is or if he's still alive for that matter.  He has friends and family on Earth, Bajor, on DS9 and on the Defiant worried and extremely concerned.  This book tells us that he's not only alive, but doing well given the circumstances.    In the process of going on a secret mission to find his father based on an ancient manuscript, Jake gets caught up in some sort of anomaly in the wormhole.  Without warning, he finds himself among aliens who mean him no harm.  These aliens are mostly benign and receive him with open arms.  He forges strong friendships with these aliens and in the course of traveling with them, he meets Opaka a former Kai of Bajor.  The story mostly consists of missions Jake goes on with his new friends and entries in his diary.  There's not much to the adventure aspect, but there are some exciting moments.  Much of the fantasy has a lot of things of mythical or spiritual significance in the Bajoran religion.    With Jake back in the DS9 saga with his new friends, things can only get better from this point.	2005-03-09
US	49641892	R9AOW9JNJHBX	0743410246	307045695	4: Mission Gamma Book Four: Lesser Evil (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	the plot thickens	This is the last of the mission gamma books but only the beginning of some very interesting ramifications and story lines.  The book is rather short (266 pages) but is by no means shallow and simple. <br /> <br />Mission Gamma book four ties in excellently with what happened at the end of book three of the Mission Gamma series.  What happened at the end of book three was puzzling but now we know why there was an assassination and who did it makes sense as well.  The whole plot doesn't stop there however.  The assassination and its ramifications could very well lead to a planetary war. <br /> <br />Meanwhile, on the Defiant the crew stumbles on a startling discovery and run into three unexpected visitors two of whom are very well known. <br /> <br />Back on earth, O'brian makes a surprise visit to Joseph Sisko and we meet Benjamen's sister for the first time. <br /> <br />Just one problem I have is that the cover of this book is somewhat misleading.  The women in the foreground is Ro Laren Chief of security of Deep Space Nine.  Behind Ro to her right is Kassidy Yates, Captiain Sisko's wife who is now living on Bajor.  The other black woman behind Ro is unknown.  Since she's wearing a Starfleet uniform I'm assuming she's the station's acting counselor who filled Dax's position while she went on the Gamma Mission.  The Jemhadar behind this unknown woman is taranatar who is on a mission of peace to observe humanity.  With the exception on Ro Lauren, none of these people play a significant part of the story.	2005-02-16
US	49641892	R39NEW16KJBLSW	0312997221	604432126	Avenger	Books	5	1	1	N	N	one of his best	If I were to ever become a writer, I would pattern my style after Frederick Forsyth.  He never fails to keep me glued to the pages with the way he develops the characters in such a way that we care about them and root for them.  I've yet to find a writer who can pack a story with a sense of adventure, intrigue and suspence like he can.  At the same time, the story is believeable.  There's no proof that the events which unfolded in this story did not happen; none of it is far-fetched.    The story revolves around the search for a Serbian fugitive who was responsible for the torture and death of an American aid worker.  Due to the dangerous nature of this job, a specialist must be called in.  This specialist is Cal Dexter who was a tunnel rat in Vietnam.  Cal's mission is to capture the fugitive and then bring him to justice, but there is someone in the FBI who doesn't want this to happen.  Ironically, the capture of the fugitive can have diasterous ramifications.	2005-02-08
US	49641892	R1APINHIAL6BEH	0446677949	86567931	The Fountains of Paradise	Books	3	9	12	N	N	read it for the experience, not the story	There is hardly any character development in this entire book.  The story line is somewhat awkward.  There are too many chapters (57) which only makes the story choppy.   <br /> <br />The whole plot revolves around the building and operation of an orbital tower or space elevator.  The tower doesn't really play a big part of the story until almost half way through the book however.  The author explains the technical problems in building the tower fairly well but I thought he could have done a better job in explaining exactly how the tower was built, what it looked like and exactly how it worked.  The part of the book that was meant to be suspenseful wasn't to me because it was hard for me to visualize exactly what was happening and the physical surroundings. <br /> <br />Also, I think it was way too easy to build that tower.	2005-01-20
US	49641892	R2D76Q1HYFZE42	0553252704	634457066	The Parsifal Mosaic: A Novel	Books	3	4	5	N	N	complex and confusing	This book starts out well with a simple objective, but by chapter 17 things became so complicated that I started to take notes to keep up with the flow.  My interest waned about three quarters of the way through because I didn't like where the story was going and so many questions were not answered to my satisfaction.  Also, I didn't care for all of the dialogue.  Some of it seemed redundant. <br /> <br />I wouldn't recommend this book as a first Ludlum read because it's way too complex.  You must be accustomed to Ludlum's style and or you must be a real big fan of cold war novels. <br /> <br />	2004-12-02
US	49641892	RUDMIFKGN1RL6	0345347951	589013680	Childhood's End	Books	3	1	9	N	N	mostly just ok	I'm still looking for a classic sci-fi novel that I would thoroughly enjoy.  This one definately was not it.  It is a pretty short book, but I found it rather tiresome.  The description of the aliens was vague at best.  There were also some illogical scenarios.  One of the most illogical was the part about the human who went to the overlords world and returned to earth later.  What did eat for food?  If he didn't need any food, it wasn't made clear why not.   <br /> <br />On the other hand, I think good novels get you to think and this one did that.  It really gets you thinking, but many of the ideas and questions could have been expanded upon.  If it's looked at in a certain way, it's somewhat of a satire on modern society.  Has anyone ever stopped to think that a 200 channel TV is a bit excessive and redundant?  What kind of people are able to keep up with just a fraction of the many programs shown on TV today?  Approximately how many hours a day would one have to watch TV in order to keep up with all of the garbage which is now shown?  It's simply not possible for a person with a full time job to keep up with even a fraction of the programs.  Then why in the world do people need 200 channels?  The author not only gets into the TV industry, but leisure time in general.	2004-10-26
US	49641892	R1VYC1UQ6G44H2	0743445643	576276131	Mission Gamma Book Three: Cathedral (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk.3)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	excellent installment!	This book was throughly engaging.  All of the plots kept me turning the pages wondering what was going to happen next.  The three plots which are Bajor, DS9 and the Gamma Mission has all of the elements of a good science fiction story, all of the intrigue of a political thiller and all of the character development and dialogue one would find in a good drama.    Bajor has long been a major focus in the Deep Space nine series but after the last installment of Mission Gamma I was losing interest in all of the politics involved.  This book however has rekindled my interest and made Bajor one of my favorite plots to follow.  Bajor's entry into the Federation is the primary focus, but other issues have to be delt with as well like Kira's attainer, the growth of a spliinter group and the Cardassian/Bajoran peace talks.  All of these issues are delt with excellently.  Garak even makes an appearance although his role is limited at the moment.     The drama on board DS9 evolves nicely.  Quark and Ro still seem to get along well and things are going well in their relationship but Ro in particular gets more and more concerned about her future as Bajor moves closer to joining the Federation.  Meanwhile, Quark seems more concerned about his relationship with Ro as opposed to what's going to happen to him after the Federation takes over the station.  It brings up some interesting questions because the Federation I understand is a moneyless organization so Quark won't be able to make a profit after the Federation takes over.  Ro on the other hand does not have a very good reputation with the Federation or Bajor.  On another front, Taran'atar continues to observe and study humanity.  Some interesting dialogue takes place between him, Vic Fontaine and another.  There is still no sign of Jake, but Joseph (Sisko's father) makes an appearance.    The story of the Gamma Mission can be made into a full feature length movie by itself.  It continues to impress me as the crew run into new alien species and artifacts.  Everyone who has read about this installment knows that Dr. Bashir will lose his genetic enhancements somewhere along the line.  The real meat of the story is not in him losing his enhancements, but in him and his crew's contact with an alien artifact.  The alien artifact forces them to go back into their past and confront their most serious issues.    WARNING SPOILER:    A major player in one of the three plots is assassinated in the most dramatic ending to date in the series.  It took me by complete surprise.	2004-10-02
US	49641892	R1P4CNJ0ZPPL5M	0345330145	428889418	Puppet Masters	Books	3	2	17	N	N	good story, but I didn't like the style	This novel is one of the classics but I didn't find it as enjoyable as I thought I would.  The story is relatively simple.  A flying saucer full of aliens from one of saturn's moons lands in Iowa and proceeds to take over the population.  These aliens are slug like creatures who attach themselves to humans taking over their bodies.  They quickly multiply and threaten to take over the world.  Getting rid of them is tricky because killing one while they are attached to a human will kill the human as well. <br /> <br />The story's setting is in the 21st century.  I found it comical how the author depicted the technology of today back then.  Also, the dialogue seems awfully simplistic and I wasn't all that satisfied with how the author explained the creatures and how the scientists analyzed them.   <br /> <br />The story was fun, but not nearly as engaging as some of the Star Trek novels I've read.	2004-09-11
US	49641892	R38Z76BPQDD878	0525943331	603417402	Love Scents: How Your Natural Pheromones Influence Your Relationships, Your Moods, and Who You Love	Books	5	6	6	N	N	never look at love and relationships the same way again!	Did you ever meet someone for the first time and not like them without being able to explain why?  Have you ever instantly liked someone after meeting them for the first time?  How about fallen head over heels for someone shortly after meeting them?  Some of us trust our \\"gut feelings\\" without being able to explain what it is.  Others just ignore the \\"gut feeling\\" simply because we can't attach any concrete evidence to it.  After reading this book, I've developed a much better understanding and appreciation for the \\"sixth sense\\".    We consciously smell, see, feel, taste, and touch.  The sixth sense is our ability to subconsciously read messages given off by pheromones.  Pheromones are powerful chemical messages given off by people.  Scientists have long known about the highly developed Jacobson's organ in nonhumans.  The existence and significance of the Vomeronasal organ in humans however is fairly new.  The Vomeronasal organ is not as highly developed in humans as the Jacobson's organ in nonhumans but it nevertheless is there and does function.  The Vomeronasal organ is located just inside of our nasal canals and its function is to send chemical messages to the hypothalamus (reptilian brain).  Since our reptilian brain is not our thinking brain, we are not given a chance to decipher these messages, we are simply told to do or not to do something.  The hypothalamus controls our sleep, sex drive, endocrine activity, hunger and thirst.  We can always consciously resist urges we get from messages received by the hypothalamus but they are powerful and have a tremendous impact on us.    One of the most interesting experiments pointed out in the book was performed by a Swiss Zoologist called Claus Wedekind.  He selected a group of men who wore the same T-shirts for a long time and had women covertly \\"sniff\\" the sweaty T-shirts in a controlled setting and to rate the smells in terms of which ones they were most attracted to.  The T-shirt preference in the women revealedsome interesting and conclusive results regarding sexual selection.  After reading parts of this book, I was reminded of some personal experiences as well as what I've read and heard about sexual selection.  People will denie that there is any type of natural attraction towards individuals of different races.  I think what is pointed out in this book makes that oversight much more difficult.  Darker skinned races (i.e. black Africans) have more apocrine glands (sweat glands) than whites and produce more androstenone, Asians have fewer apocrine glands than caucasians.  Blondes, brunettes and redheads also produce different pheromones.  So it's very much possible that people who prefer their partners of certain races and or hair color are actually attracted to the person's pheromones.       I would like to write more about this fascinating book but I'm limited by how much I can write in a review.  There is a lot more we can learn about ourselves if we learn to trust and become more conscious of our \\"sixth sense\\" and break down our social and cultural barriers.	2004-08-09
US	49641892	R3VNHGA86OAU5	0446673633	240555579	Reversing Asthma: Breathe Easier with This Revolutionary New Program	Books	4	38	40	N	N	read it, the author is no a quack	I've run into people who claim that doctors who advocate getting off of medications and using alternative methods are quacks. I agree that there are many quacks out there, but Dr. Firshein is not one of them. <br />  <br /> Years ago, I was on 4 different asthma medications and now I'm completely drug free! I've had some asthma problem from time to time since getting off of the medications, but I feel that I'm now more intelligent about isolating the cause so I'm now able to control it without going to the doctor. What I find interesting is that I've virtually followed the same advice Dr. Firshein gives in his book without having read it. He outlines a method call the Comprehensive Asthma Prevention Program or CAP. In the CAP program, he outlines methods such as breathing exercises, visualization, biofeedback and locating and eliminating the source of your problem. He also talks a great deal about diet and exercise. There are certain foods which help repair the damage asthma may cause and prevent this disease from causing further damage. Exercise can't be emphasized enough for asthmatics. I see no reason why any asthma sufferer who conscientiously follows Firshein's CAP program wouldn't be able to get to the point where he/she requires no medications. I'm living proof that one can get off of asthma medications if determined. I simply refused to be sickly and use inhalers 3 or 4 times a day. As Firshein points out, asthma medications can cause more health problems than most realize. &quot;Locked Lung&quot; syndrome is a condition which is caused by overdosing on an inhaler. What happens is that the patient reaches the point where his inhaler won't work as well as it had before so he keeps using it. Eventually, the lungs completely choke themselves off and the patient can die unless he gets immediate medical attention. <br />  <br /> So the imformation is definately out there it's just a matter of following it. The problem with most however is that we want a quick fix. We're constantly bombarded by ads telling us: &quot;if you can't breathe, take a pill or puff on an inhaler&quot;, &quot;if your stomach hurts, take a pill&quot;, &quot;if you have high cholesterol, take a pill&quot;, &quot;if your toe hurts, take a pill&quot;. Don't get me wrong, medications have their place and in some situations they are a necessity but so many people don't really need them and abuse them. The best doctors are those who try to suggest ways of working your way off medications (like Dr. Firshein) for things such as asthma instead of blindly prescribing medications.	2004-07-25
US	49641892	R1QGE0RPTLD183	0743445627	646144995	Mission Gamma Book Two: This Gray Spirit (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk. 2)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	read it for the sake of keeping up with the series	I didn't like this installment nearly as much as I liked part one.  This book continues the stories on DS9 as well as what's going on with the crew of the defiant exploring the gamma quadrant.  I wasn't particularly fond of this one partly because of the writer's style and partly because I think there was too much politics involved.  All of what takes place with the defiant crew has to do with the crew trying to act as an intermediary between two alien races.  I found it for the most part boring.  I felt as if the author could have made the aliens more interesting and the story line less dry.  There is some action, but it just doesn't pack too much of a punch.  <br />The DS9 drama I think is the best part of the book.  Some interesting things take place on different fronts.  Shar's bondmates struggle to deal with problems which largely has to do with him not being there.  A delegation of Cardassian and Bajorans push to normalize relations, but things get more complicated before they get better.	2004-07-06
US	49641892	R16QE4ZEUC0G9A	0743445600	25499919	Mission Gamma Book One: Twilight (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Mission Gamma) (Bk. 1)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	the best I've read so far	Upto this point, mission Gamma part 1 is this best I've read in the relaunch series.<br />Although like the series in general, this book is mostly character driven, it still has all of the elements of a good sci fi novel.  Stumbling upon strange new worlds and beings, making new discoveries and learning of infinite possibilities beyond the realm of what we experience every day is the stuff of good science fiction.  This book has all of that<br />The Mission Gamma part 1 revolves around three main plots which are:<br />Vaughn and a crew from DS9 go on a mission of exploration into the Gamma quadrant.<br />The crew stumbles upon two new worlds and three different kinds of alien species.  One of these species communicates by changing epidermal colors and patterns.  The other two species are not not of corporeal form and live in a different realm.  Not much is known about them (or it) other than something called the thoughtscape is the most prominent part of its existence and has the ability to establish communion with others rather then to communicate.  <br />Quark's relationship with Ro (security officer)<br />A Romance develops between the two.  I was a bit skeptical that anything would come of it at first and did not like the idea.  As I read more about their relationship however, I've become more interested in seeing how far it would go.<br />Elias Vaughn's relationship with his daughter<br />Before this story a was puzzled as the way Prynn resented her father.  This story clarifies everything nicely<br />Bajor's future as it moves closer to joining the United Federation of Planets and how this may effect Ro and Quark's future as well.<br />Quark is concerned that when the federation takes over the station, he will be out of a job because the Federation is essentially a moneyless organization.  Ro is concerned because she and starfleet don't have good relations.  So what will be her new place on a federation controlled space station (assuming she is even allowed tostay)?   <BR> <BR>While new relations are forged, others face an uncertain future, and some explore uncharted territory in the Gamma Quadrant; Taranatar continues to explore and observe humanity on the space station.  Some parts involving Taranatar are very funny.  A Jemhadar would be the last I would think to be in a holosuite studying partial differential equations.  That's the beauty to this entire genre, just when you think you've read it all you find something that takes you by surprise.  Star Trek is so full of surprises.    <br />I also would like to add that the writer (David R. George III) is one of the best I've read so far.  The character development is superp and he brings things together well with no inconsistentcies while writing a relatively complex plot.	2004-05-28
US	49641892	R237EASCL9RV8W	0743456831	20110081	Gateways #7: What Lay Beyond (Star Trek Gateways)	Books	3	3	3	N	N	can be skipped without losing continuity	Gateways What Lay Beyond is a compilation of the conclusions to all of the Star Trek Gateways series.  Personally I only read &quot;Horn and Ivory&quot; which is the conclusion to the Deep Space Nine Gateways series.  <br />There is nothing astounding to the conclusion.  First of all, I will warn everyone that spoilers follow.  So stop reading now if you want don't want to know what happens.<br />The whole story is focused on Kira, none of the other DS9 crew plays a role.  In the last Gateways book, we find Kira stranded on a deserted planet in the Delta Quadrant dieing of theta radiation poisoning and Taranatar recovering from a brutal fight with a Hirogen.  We also know that at the end of the last Gateways book, Kira staggers into a gateway that keeps flashing between two places.  We would expect something to happen like her being returned to DS9 or Bajor but that's not quite what happens.  After staggering into the Gateway, Kira is transported to a familiar planet 30,000 years in the past.  The rest of the story has nothing to do with solving the mystery of the Gateways, it only opens up more questions.  Not until the final chapter do we find out what happened with the evacuation.  <br />It's a nice litte story, but you can easily skip it and go on to the Deep Space Nine Gamma series.	2004-04-18
US	49641892	R2A74DE9FF0U3M	0743418522	837421511	Demons of Air and Darkness: Gateways #4 (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine - Gateways)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	victory is life	The main plot revolves around a story to save an entire population of a planet from destruction due to theta radiation poisoning.  The entire planet must be evacuated and its inhabitants must be treated.  This places an enormous strain on DS9 and Starfleet.  The theta radiation came from a Malon freighter that got into a firefight with a Hirogen starship.  Coincidentaly, the gateways were activated recently which caused the deadly theta radiation to be dispersed into different areas.  Another problem with the gateways is that they drain energy from planets, so they must be shut down somehow.  <br />Meanwhile, Quark is up to his usual self.  He just can't seem to stay out of trouble, or is it that trouble aways seems to find him?  One of the other plots revolve around Quark negotiating with the Iconians on behalf of the Orion Syndicate.  The Iconians control the gateways and are in the process of auctioning them off.  Negotiating with the Iconians on behalf of the Orions however is the least of Quark's problems.   <br />There aren't any dull moments in this entire book.  Every chapter keeps our attention to the very end and encourages us to read other books in the series.	2004-04-16
US	49641892	R2EXEGA0FOZ1FI	0345447840	383802287	The Surgeon (with Bonus Content): A Rizzoli & Isles Novel	Books	5	1	1	N	N	an intelligently written medical thriller/police procedural	The person who wrote this book is actually a real life MD (specializing in Internal Medicine) who gave up her career to write full time.  This book she wrote is nothing short of brilliance.  Not only was she able to use her medical expertise to write out all of the gory details of the killings, but she does well in putting together great detective work and really makes some interesting and believeable characters.<br />The story is centered around the search for a serial killer who performs hyterectomies on women in the Boston area while they are still alive and then kills them.  The killer is called the surgeon because he seems to have skills that only someone with specialized medical training should have.  The killings seem strikingly similar to the style of another killer over two years ago in Savanna, Georga.  But the killer in Georga was killed by his would-be victim (Catherine Cordell).  One would think that maybe it's just coincidental that another killer just happened to have the same style as another killer who was killed over two years ago.  The possiblility of it just being a coincidence was shattered when the police realized that the same woman (Catherine Cordell) who killed the killer two years ago is now living in Boston.  The killer starts taunting Catherine by writing her email messages and even writes a message to her on a victim's body.  But what is this killer's link to what happened in Georga and why is Catherine being targeted?<br />Another part of the story focuses on the relationship of a male detective (Thomas Moore) with Catherine and the building resentment of a female detective.  It also takes us into the world of a female detective's struggle for recognition and respect on the police force.	2004-03-29
US	49641892	R1CU01ZSKB1B72	0786889691	338298919	The Blue Hour	Books	4	1	2	N	N	a good murder mystery/police drama that makes you think	It was hard for me to decide whether to give this book four stars or five.  The strong story and suspense as well as the drama which unfolded between two unlikely police partners in a search for a serial killer was about as good as one would expect from the genre.<br />The reason I finally decided to give this book four stars instead of five however, was because I really was not very fond of one of the main characters (Merci).  Merci is a tough ambitious police woman who is partnered with a semi-retired hard-boiled cop (Tim Hess) who is dieing of cancer.  I think the relationship between Merci and Tim is believable.  But I just didn't find Merci very likable because it seemed as though she was just driven by rage and hate (nothing more).  People like her undoubtedly exist in the real world (I've met some like her).  I'll even go so far as to say that under some circumstances, I've had some characteristics of Merci.<br />The story revolves around the relationship between Merci and Tim but the main theme is the search for a serial killer called the purse snatcher who kills young women (attractive professional types) and drains all of the blood out of their bodies.  The story moves relatively fast with a number of suspects and leads being interrogated by the police.  I thought however that it was easy to figure out who the killer was.  I figured out who the killer was very early, but assumed later that the author wouldn't make it so easy for readers to figure it out, but it was.	2004-03-07
US	49641892	R1QUU7OCO4JDEH	0451203593	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	1	1	N	N	action packed page turner	I could not put this one down easily, there is so much action and surprises involved.  The plot is simple, there is a team of professional criminals who specialize in kidnapping for ransom.  They have succeeded five times without a hitch.  Their plan is based on a 24 hour cycle.  First, a doctor (preferably a well established specialist) with a family that has one small child is selected.  The team takes advantage of a time when the doctor has to attend a medical conference.  Each team member holds every member of the family hostage, keeps them separate and stays in contact via cell phone.  One family member wires the cash to a bank and another family member is forced to pick up the cash at a bank and give it to the kidnapper.  After the 24 hour cycle, the family is reunited and everyone promises to not say anything to anyone under the threat of their child being killed.<br />There is just one job the team does however that presents a special challenge they could not have anticipated.  All of the plans start to fall apart one by one which forces the team to alter their original plans.  As everyone knows from reading popular mystery/thriller novels the bad guys always lose, but the question is, how far are the bad guys able to make it without getting caught and what are the things which contribute to their plan being foiled?<br />I found it interesting how a similar scenario from the movie &quot;Panic Room&quot; was used.	2004-02-18
US	49641892	RPVGGHEGVQ5XW	0028643739	585321896	The Complete Idiot's Guide to the U.S. Special Ops Forces	Books	5	6	6	N	N	very informative	Army Green Berets, Army Rangers, Navy SEALS (which is actually an acronym Sea, Air and Land), Delta Force (Army), PJs and Combat Controllers (Air Force) and a more obscure group called the 160th Special Operations Aviation Regiment (Army) all are military special operations forces which are given very good treatment in this book.  <br />Without being dull pointing out a bunch of dates and times, the author of this book starts out by getting into the history of special ops going all the way back to the Civil War and further.  We learn about how the Rangers started out as a rag tag group of misfits and how through major conflicts they've come to become highly regarded and respected.  It also explains how the first Underwater Units evolved into UDTs (Underwater Domolitian Teams) and ultimately SEAL teams.  A whole chapter was devoted to how American special forces where patterned after foreign special forces.  I like how the book brings up the US special operations failures as well as their successes.      <br />About half way into the book, the command structure of different special ops groups is given.  We learn that the US Army has the largest special operations organization of any of the other brances and also has considerable jurisdiction over the others (with the exception of the Marines).  The US Special Operations Command is run by an Army general who oversees activities by special ops units from the Navy, Air Force and Army.<br />Later in the book we learn about the different types of missions each unit may be called to do (although there is considerable overlap) and how the operators are trained and selected.  We are given a glimpse into the brutal training regimens of some of the toughest and most experienced special operations units in the world.    <br />Many who have a fairly good knowledge of special operations have also heard of the Marine's Force Recon and Marine Expeditionary Units (MEUs).  Interestingly, very little is said about the Marines SpecialOps forces in this book.  The Marine's Special Ops Forces fall under a different command from the others (Army, Navy and Airforce special ops).	2004-02-04
US	49641892	R2Z0H5XM2D135F	0671774832	730207011	Section 31: Abyss (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	action, intrigue and a well written story	This book in my opinion is one of the best of the DS9 books in the relaunch series.  The action couldn't be better, the machinations of Section 31 have fascinated me since I first heard of them on the TV series and the plots which are not only action driven but character driven are put together very well.  I sincerely hope that more Section 31 based DS9 books will come out in the future. <br />As we know from the television series, Sloan is dead so another mysterious character known as Cole fills his spot.  Cole mysteriously appears in Dr. Bashir's room asking him questions and in a round and about way gets him to go on a dangerous covert mission for Section 31.  This mission will challenge and test Dr. Bashir in ways he has never experienced before.  Dr. Bashir must match wits with another genetically enhanced individual called Dr. Ethan who used to work for Section 31 but betrayed them.  Dr. Ethan is a eugenicist who took over a planet where he breeds Jimhadar soldiers loyal to him and conducts genetic experiments making clones and designing weapons to destroy others who are deemed inferior.  Ezri, Ro Lauren and Taran'atar all go with him to the planet Sindorin to assist in bringing Dr. Ethan to justice, but he also would like to crush Section 31.  Sindorin is where most of the story takes place.  There are quite a few good firefights and suspence as well as some very good dialogue.<br />The book also advances other plots from previous books as well.  By the way, Jake is still lost and Cassidy still didn't have the baby yet.	2004-01-17
US	49641892	R3Q33NVK6IKYW	0743400518	452222728	2: Avatar Book Two (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	opens up more questions than answers	Eagarly reading this book to find answers to certain questions and plot resolutions, I was sorely mistaken.  It advances some plots, but others are left dangling.  One of the most disappointing things about the book was the fact that &quot;Avatar&quot; has not happened yet and the plot involving Jake has not gone anywhere.  The mystery involving the mysterious Jemhadar soldier &quot;Kitana'klan&quot; was resolved to my satisfaction and opens up some interesting possibilities for future novels.  There is one good fire fight and I'll add that S.D Perry describes them well.<br />The action, character development and the overall writing style compels me to give this book 4 stars.  Were it not for the dangling plots, I would have given this book 5 stars.  Oh, and the awkward relationship beween Ro Lauren and Quark is rather annoying and a waste of space.	2003-12-24
US	49641892	RCP02B7EU9M4P	074340050X	967411670	Avatar Book One (Star Trek Deep Space Nine) (Bk. 1)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	a good place to start	It turns out that the station was attacked again which resulted in thousands of deaths and severe damage to the station.  While every one on the station is more or less recovering from the attack and working around the clock to make repairs, Picard's ship stumbles upon a significant find.  This find is significant because it has something to do with the planet Bajor.  So Picard's crew heads for DS9 to show Kira what they've found.<br />There are other sub-plots which may or may not be connected to the Enterprise's discovery such as:<br />A strange Jemhadar soldier shows up on the station claiming to be on a mission of peace.<br />An ancient Bajoran tablet is found which contains a ground-breaking prophesy (Avatar).<br />Other than those aforementioned plots, the book is mostly character driven.  Bashir, Ezri, Nog, Jake, Quark and others are still on the station but there are a few new interesting characters such as Shar.  Shar is an Andorian and I think it's neat how they have sensory antennas on their heads.  Shar (a member of Starfleet) plays a significant part in making a frightening discovery on board DS9 where his antennas come in handy.	2003-11-30
US	49641892	R3KBGBR369LKFZ	0671038850	757593145	A Stitch in Time (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine #27)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	good, but not quite what I expected	The life story of Garak written as a letter to Dr. Bashir on DS9 starts out at a very good pace and keeps the reader's interest.  Later however, one will either love the rest of the content or consider it average to good at best.  <br />The beginning of the book has Garak talking about what he's doing now to help rebuild Cardassia and his experiences at a prestigious intsitute called Bamarren.  Bamarren is a place that trains a select group of Cardassians to become intelligence operatives.  I found the initial discussion about Bamarren interesting because I was eager to find out more about the harsh training.  The more I read however, the more my interest dwindled.  Andrew Robinson is undoubtely a very good writer, but I simply found some of his descriptions at the intelligence institute rather vague and inconsistent.  For example, &quot;the pit&quot; is mentioned but I still don't know exactly what it is and exactly what was done there and how.  At first, I thought it was just a place where the Cardassians fight one another, but it was stated that many of them are in the pit at once just standing doing nothing until they start passing out.  Another thing about the pit was that its heat was supposed to be part of the training, but I always thought that Cardassians had a very high threshold for enduring heat.  The author's description of the so-called martial ways of the Cardassians were very vague.  It would have been better if he didn't even mention anything about martial arts in the first place.<br />Much of the book is character driven and centers around Garak's love interest, his relations with Enabrain Tain, his feelings towards others and his interpersonal relations.  How Garak deals with betrayal, unspoken love and deceit are given good treatment.	2003-11-02
US	49641892	R240FEXWXCP1UC	0671007939	756748643	The 34th Rule (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine, No. 23)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	intriguing	This book would make an excellent espionage/thriller.  In many ways, the plot reminds me of something Frederick Forsyth would write.  Perhaps the authors may have read some books by him.  The twists and surprising revelations at the end of this novel would satisfy any fan of intrigue and espionage.  I honesty had no idea what was going to happen from chapter to chapter.<br />A highly valued religious artifact (the 9th orb of the prophets) which originated on the planet Bajor gets into the hands of the head of the Faringi Alliance (grand Negus Zek).  Bajor then asks for it back since it belongs to them and Negus purchased it on the black market.  Negus then places the item in an auction.  Unsatisfied with the amount Bejor would be willing to pay for the orb, Negus bars them from the auction.  This angers the head of Bejor (Shakaar) and causes friction between Faringis and Bejorans.  The Bejorans and Faringis then start to trade blows with one another.  Relations between the Faringi and Bejorans get worse and it affects Quark's relations with Kira as well as with others on DS9.<br />Quark plays a significant role in this story because he knows Negus Zek very well.  Rom, Quark's brother also plays a significant part.  In watching DS9, I remember Rom as a very simple-minded Faringi but this story shows a different side of him.  Rom's character in this book is very consistent with the way I remember him on the TV show, but he is portrayed as a very courageous individual who has intelligent things to say.  Also, this is the first time I've witnessed anger from Rom.	2003-10-04
US	49641892	RE4QQBHLEY8YW	0671024302	928875932	Far Beyond the Stars (Star Trek Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	a very good novelization	I throughly enjoyed reading this novel which is a novelization of an episode of Star Trek Deep Space Nine.  The setting for most of this novel takes place in the 1950s in Harlem.  Sisko (commander of Deep Space Nine) unexpectedly falls sick and is transported to Harlem, New York in the 1950s.  He keeps his body but is a different person who is struggling to become a Science Fiction writer.  By reading the novel we feel the main character's (Benny's) pain and wish him well, but everyone who has seen the episode knows what the outcome will be.  Seeing how Benny overcame so much adversity and kept his dream alive in spite of all of the obstacles that confronted him was an emboldening story.<br />One of the things that I really liked about this book was how it went back to Benny's childhood and into the bodies of men from several generations back.  We see Benny as a child growing up in Harlem and also as a slave in america tending the fields.   <BR>  <BR>I think this story would be enjoyable for any reader, but I think those familiar with the characters on Star Trek Deep Space Nine will appreciate it much more.  The story transposes the main characters from Deep Space Nine and puts them in a different setting along with Sisko giving them different names but having mostly the same personalities.  <br />I was surprised to discover that the original episode on television was written by a white man, because it really brings out the feelings and frustrations of a black man living in a time when any black man other than a custodian, busboy or shoe shiner was seen as a threat to the majority community.   <br />The author's note at the end of the book discusses the role of blacks in film and TV.  The author makes some interesting and insightful observations on how far we've come and how Star Trek has been at the forefront in placing blacks in good parts.	2003-09-16
US	49641892	RIYKKR9ONO4KC	1400046955	229997903	The Warrior Elite: The Forging of SEAL Class 228	Books	5	7	7	N	N	how Navy SEALs are trained	The training to become a US Navy SEAL is one of the toughest programs of any special operations unit in the world.  From what I've read, the only other units that might come close or match the SEAL training is perhaps the Air Force's Pararescue and Combat Controllers program.     <br />This book affords us a rare opportunity into the world of the basic training stages of SEAL candidates.  Basic Underwater Demolition and SEAL training (BUD/S) is approximately 6 months but as pointed out in this book, it takes at least a year of training to become a full-fledged Navy SEAL.  After one finishes BUD/S, he must go for SEAL Tactical Training (STT) and function as part of a SEAL team for another six months before he is eligible to receive his coveted SEAL trident pin.  BUD/S is the focus of this book however.  We get to know a number of SEAL candidates fairly well from the first day of indoctrination to the final day of BUD/S and beyond.  Class 228 began with 114 trainees who were selected from a much larger group of applicants.  Of those 114, only 10 of them managed to go straight through all of the phases and graduate.  The majority seem to volitarily drop out of the program at some point in the program (particularly during the infamous &quot;hell week&quot;).  Anyone can volitarily quit and any time in the training by simply telling an instructor &quot;I quit&quot;.  Trainees quit for a number of reasons, but some of the more common reasons are because of the constant exposure to cold water and the inordinate lengths of time trainees must stay awake.  The trainees body temperatures are allowed to drop to what most medical professionals would regard as dangerously low.  Trainees passing out in the pool is not uncommon in BUD/S.  Some of the trainees begin to hallucinate and become irrational and delirious from sleep deprivation.      <br />The focus on certain trainees makes this book all the more compelling.  We meet a young man who wants to become a SEAL very badly buthe's dropped for not being able to meet the physical demands.  There is another man who is trying BUD/S for the second time; he's very strong and has no problem with most of the training evolutions but he eventually gets a pulmonary edema and hence is forced out of the program.  Then there's a man who doesn't seem to have a weakness at all and breezes through everything until he's forced out of the program due to sinus problems.  <br />I'll stop and leave with a quote from this book which I found interesting: <br />&quot;warriorship is as much a tempering of the spirit as a physical rendering&quot;	2003-09-04
US	49641892	R3LSIL8QFB12Z8	0553268465	549240349	The Dogs of War	Books	3	3	6	N	N	good story, but not up to the standard of his other books	The whole idea of a group of mercenaries going on a covert mission to invade another country to overthrow the government, insert a puppet dictator and then exploit the natural resources sounded fascinating and realistic to me.  I expected a lot of drama and intrigue but that's not what I got.  I would describe most of the book as bland or lukewarm.  There were simply too many monotonous details written about the organizing of the covert operation than the operation itself.  I don't mind reading about details of events before an operation or attack, it's just that the organizing of this operation went a little too smoothly.  It seemed like the hero of the story (a mercenary) didn't have too many worries.  There was just one big problem he had but it was delt with very quickly like magic.  How a certain event unfolded was not explained very well as it could have been.  While reading, I was wondering &quot;Where was he and how did he know?&quot; and &quot;Exactly how did that happen?&quot;.  Some may not pay that much attention to it but I think the sub-plot could have been drawn out more, it was resolved too easily.<br />The little twist at the end was effective and made sense.  I actually thought that it was kind of funny.<br />Forsyth fans will find this book enjoyable, but not nearly as gripping as his other books like &quot;The Fist of God&quot; and &quot;The Day of the Jackel&quot;.	2003-08-25
US	49641892	R32PZNAB69VA2J	0553266306	999720718	The Day of the Jackal	Books	5	3	4	N	N	the process is more important than the outcome	I've finally got around to reading this acclaimed novel. It's regarded as Forsyth's best book, some even say it's the best spy novel ever written. I've read five of his novels and think that the only one of his books that comes close is \\"The Fist of God\\" or maybe \\"The Devil's Alternative\\".<br />Some say that reading spy/thriller novels is a waste of time because you already know what's going to happen in the end. Even though one knows the outcomes of spy/thrillers they are not a waste of time because we read these books mostly for seeing how events unfold and come together in a unique way. This particular book is very well known and even many who haven't read it already know what's going to happen in the end. I saw the movie numerous times before reading this novel and still couldn't seem to put it down. I was constantly asking myself questions like \\"how will he get out of this one?\\", \\"when will such and such happen?\\".<br />Another thing which impressed me about this novel is the realism. This is what separates Forsyth from other authors. The assassin in this story is somewhat of a superman, but believeable. All of the other characters and events are also realistic. Forsyth never does things like give people ten PhDs or other absurdities.	2003-08-06
US	49641892	R2T7M49DMPZ9DW	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	1	14	32	N	N	irritating characters, unfocused plot, a bit forced	I picked up this book expecting a good solid satire, but was disappointed.  Much of the book is nothing but a bunch of aimless rambling about everything from how to commit suicide to how to how to remove blood stains.  One knows from the way the book is written that nothing is meant to be taken seriously however.  The author seems overly concerned with making people laugh.  His style got old very quick with me.  After the first few chapters I started getting annoyed by the characters, their names (i.e. Fertility Hollis) and the overall lack of focus.  The story doesn't seem to have any solid sense of direction, jumping from one thing to another.  If anyone carries on a conversation like the characters do in this book, they would be considered insane.	2003-07-21
US	49641892	R3E949LYKUC3OF	1562827979	320582502	The Super Coupon Shopping System: Ingenious New Ways to Save $$ On Every Shopping Bill	Books	3	10	10	N	N	mostly rehash of her previous book	This contains mostly the same information that is in her previous book \\"Cashing in at the Checkout\\" except that she adds some new information regarding automatic coupon dispensors and other technological advancements.  Other than that, this book contains a more extensive write up on competition between major grocery chains, wholesale clubs and food companies.  This is used to explain why food companies make coupons and why grocery stores have sales.  Simply put, they want loyal customers who will always shop at their store or buy their products.  Susan Samtur points out however that the super shopper does not fall under the spell of store or brand loyalty.  The super shopper stratigically shops so that he will maximize savings without sacrificing quality.  There is not too much of a difference in quality between major name brands and coupon users always buy name brand products.<br />There are hardly any people who wouldn't benefit from reading this book except the extremely rich.  Most would like to save more money.  Cutting down one's grocery bill puts a lot of money in the bank.  <br />Through using rebates over the years, the author was able to put $35,000.00 into her son's college fund.  One of the most extrodinary stories given in the book however is that of a man who purchased $869.79 of groceries on one trip using coupons with only $2.16!  It sounds a bit too good to be true, but after looking into it, I can see how something like this is possible with some effort.  People don't save nearly as much money on groceries as they could because they simply don't want to go through the trouble of sitting down and strategically planning for a shopping trip using coupons.	2003-07-12
US	49641892	R2EYHMZ5ONMOLS	0448157047	123996875	Cashing in at the Checkout	Books	3	18	18	N	N	a bit dated but the advice is right on target	How would you like to save anywhere from 45% to 90% of costs on groceries on a consistent basis?  How would you like to be able to walk into a grocery store with a $5.00 bill and come out with over $100.00 in groceries?  Does this sound too fantastic to you?  If it does, you need to read this book and practice the methods given.<br />Susan J. Samtur gives good advice on how one can save a tremendous amount of money on groceries and earn untaxed income through rebates.  The advice she gives is nothing new but so few people follow it.  Either out of laziness or skepticism, coupons are underused and misunderstood as are rebates or refunding.  In her book Susan J. Samtur details how she is able to earn about $1500.00 a year through refunding and consistently saves between 30% and 45% off the regular price for groceries.  She also explains how anyone can save as much or more than her through strategic couponing and refunding.  She clears up many misconceptions and myths like \\"Discount stores are cheaper\\", \\"store brands are cheaper\\", \\"you don't really save that much on coupons\\".<br />In the age of the internet, some of the methods she mentions are more or less obsolete.  On the other hand, she can and will save you a lot of money on groceries if you follow her advice.  I'm living proof that her methods work because I've tried them and have been able to walk out of the grocery store paying a little over the sales tax on brand name products.	2003-07-04
US	49641892	R3JZIW5RN82RTG	1558506020	837477058	Adams Businesses You Can Start Almanac	Books	2	5	5	N	N	not enough detail	Five hundred business ideas are given in this Alamanac, but there is nothing all that useful about the information given for each.  For each business mentioned the author gives the approximate start-up costs, the potential earnings, fees, advice and an overview of the business.  After reading up on a few business opportunities and talking to different people, I realized how off the mark some of the information given in this book is.  For example, in one business it is suggested to &quot;hit the big factories and large businesses&quot;.  I was told by someone already established in the business however that the best way is to start with people you already know and then branch out utilizing their connections to expand your business.  Large businesses and corporations do not often take in small people who don't have a good foundation unless they have strong connections to people at the company.  Some of the advice given in this book makes it seem like all you have to do is just walk into some big corporation or business and make a big sale of a product or service and that's that.  The information is way too watered down.<br />Another thing about the book is that one's earnings in a business can be easily significatly more or significantly less than the range they give.	2003-07-04
US	49641892	R2RJB395470DGR	1583940170	526866843	My Journey in Karate: The Sabaki Way	Books	5	2	2	N	N	highly recommended for all serious martial artists	Anyone who has been a serious martial artist will throughly enjoy reading the inspiring story of Grand Master of Enshin Karate Joko Ninomiya.  Anyone who has been serious about the martial arts for a significant amount of time can relate to Ninomiya's life story.  <br />Before beginning his study of kyokushin karate at the age of 15, Ninomiya practiced judo.  After making the transition to karate, Ninomiya never turned back and had the dream of becoming a karate champion.  The book explains how he would go to different karate schools in Japan and challenge the top students to improve his skills.  He challenged different schools in a dignified way, he never used bully tactics.  After hearing about the all-Japan karate tournement, Ninomiya practiced diligently for years until he was able to win first place.  In the book, he talks about his training and preparation, his fights and the people who helped him become better as a martial artist and as a person.<br />I like the way Ninomiya emphasizes that karate is not about winning tournaments and beating people up, it's about confronting yourself and pushing beyond what you are today.  Master Ninomiya admits that he did not realize the true meaning of karate until after he had accomplished one of his goals.  Sometimes that's what it takes because after we win something or accomplish something big, we often ask ourselves &quot;now what?&quot; and become complacent.  We should fight against this complacency because it will only make things harder in the long run.  <br />Towards the end of the book, Ninomiya gives his opinion of &quot;no holds barred&quot; fighting contests.  I agree with Ninomiya that &quot;no holds barred&quot; contests appeal to a morbid curiosity.  People often watch these types of contests and are happy to see someone lying flat on their back at the end of a match or seriously hurt in some way.  Ninomiya founded The Sabaki Challenge which is a real karate tournament, but he has a point system that emphasizes technique to minimize injuries.	2003-06-19
US	49641892	R3G1GZ15KKS2K3	074320011X	423914902	Parasite Rex: Inside the Bizarre World of Nature's Most Dangerous Creatures	Books	5	38	40	N	N	an adventure and journey into a world we can hardly imagine	I was drawn to this book orignially out of the idea that things so small can cause so much damage and or alter larger animals in ways some would find hard to believe.  One of the previous reviewers mentioned something about sacculina (a parasitic barnicle that attacks crabs).  Reading about how sacculina castrates its host and makes it care for its young was one of the things that got me interested in reading this fascinating book.  Sacculina is only one of many fascinating parasites discussed however.  <br />Many are familiar with parasites such as cuckcoos, tape worms and trichinella but few have heard of parasites such as the lancet fluke and even fewer are familiar with its life cycle and what it does to its host.  In terms of the spooky element, I think Dicrocoelium dendriticum (the lancet fluke) ranks as one of the top villains given in the book.  The lancet fluke has three different hosts, namely the snail, the ant and cow or other grazers.  As an adult, the lancet fluke spends its time in the gut of a cow where it lays its eggs.  The eggs are then deposited on the ground with the cow's feces then snails eat the eggs which hatch in its intestines.  The baby flukes bore through the snail's gut emerging from the snails slimy body and onto the ground where they attract the attention of ants.  The ants eat these slime balls and become infected.  The flukes then make the ants climb up the highest blade of grass they can find and lock their mandibles onto the top of the blade hanging until they are eaten by a grazer to continue its life cycle.  There are a few interesting details which I intentionally left out.<br />Only one parasite in the book made me cringe and that was with candiru.  Candiru is a thin fish found in the rivers of Latin America.  Woe to the unfortunate soul who happens to urinate in a river in the presence of candiru because it will detect the odor of urine and ram itself into the victim's urethra (male or female) and lodge itself there with itsteeth.  Candiru is virtually impossible to remove once inside the urethra.  Humans are not candiru's natural hosts however, it attacks them as a mistake.<br />The book also expounds on how and why parasites have a vital and critical role to play in ecology.  Examples of bad things happening because certain parasites were eliminated is discussed.	2003-06-11
US	49641892	R1ZZQA7SSFCCVH	1879402114	787659981	Jesus: Prophet of Islam	Books	4	31	39	N	N	good historical information regarding Unitarian Christianity	I put a lot of care in to my last edit of this review yet it didn't get posted for some strange reason. I will try my best to replicate what I did in the last edit and hope it gets posted this time. <br />This book consists of 10 chapters which are mostly historical.<br />Chapter 1, \\"The Unitarian View and Christianity\\" argues that based on historical proof that Christianity was from its beginning just as monotheistic as Islam and Judaism. It also gets into how the belief in trinity was merely based on a historical decision in 325 A.D. <br />\\"A Historical Account of Jesus\\" is the title of the second chapter which gets into what Jesus actually looked like and anything else of interest that has been written about him. The chapter quotes The Bible, The Qur'aan and some Hadith. <br />The next chapter which is on \\"The Gospel of Barnabas\\" is a short survey on this Gospel which is said to be the only surviving Gospel written by a disciple of Jesus. Since the Gospel of Banabas contradicts The Qur'aan, I find it a little bit puzzling as to why so many Muslims try to use it in their arguments.<br />Another book of interest like the Gospel of Banabas is called \\"The Shepherd of Hermas\\" which is the topic of Chapter 4. The Shepherd was written between 88 and 97 AD and because of its affirmation of Divine Unity as opposed to trinity, all copies were ordered to be destroyed after the Council of Nicea in 325 AD. <br />Chapter 5 discusses \\"Barnabas and the Early Christians\\". This chapter quotes The Bible extensively and talks about how the earliest followers of Jesus and Barnabas were not much different.<br />The next chapter titled \\"Early Unitarians in Christianity\\" is a compilation of short bios of the earliest Unitarians from 130 A.D. to 336 A.D. <br />Chapter 7 (\\"Later Unitarians in Christianity\\") is in the same format as the previous chapter except that the bios are of Unitarians from 1511 - 1842.<br />\\"Christianity Today\\" basically discusses how destorted the Christianity hasbecome today since the 325 A.D Council of Nicea.<br />Chapter 8 simply quotes various verses from The Qur'aan were Jesus is mentioned.<br />The last chapter is called Jesus in Hadith and Muslim traditions, yet not everything in this chapter is from authentic Muslim sources. Although not all of the Hadith mentioned may be strong, some of them are quite interesting and teach valuable lessons.	2003-05-22
US	49641892	RANKT9FSMH61U	044021176X	540660013	A Rap on Race	Books	3	7	13	N	N	conversation on race	In August 1970 Margaret Mead (anthropologist) and James Baldwin (writer) sat down and had a long and serious discussion about race.  This book is a transcript of that conversation.  In the beginning of the book it's seemed as if both were agreeing just for the sake of not wanting to hurt the other's feelings.  Margaret in particular seemed to sound like a black person in that she was so quick to agree with James on the fact that blacks really have it hard in this country and it represents a serious barrier.  I figured that after the first few pages that the conversation would be very boring.  About half way into the book however, the pace of the conversation changed and got more interesting as they started touching on sexual issues.  Toward the end, the conversation begain to get quite heated.  James became very adamant and Margaret begain to interrupt him and assumed what he's was going to say before he said it.  The conversation doesn't get heated until the subject of Jews is brought up.  After finishing the book, I can't say that I've added too much of anything to my knowledge other than the indigenous people of New Guinea speak over 200 different dialects.<br />I think the conversation lacked depth and has dated quite a bit.  It would have been nice if they would have been able to expound more on the issues of religion and sexual selection but either one or both of them lacked knowledge in these areas or they simply shied away from talking about them.  I also wish they would have talked about lynching to obtain some insight into the white southern mindset.  James did talk about how he experienced a different mindset from white southerners as opposed to northerners, but he only scratched the surface of the subject.  Black radicalism was also given scant attention.  <br />I wouldn't recommend this book strongly, but it is a nice book to read just for the sake of seeing how little things have changed since the sixties and seventies.	2003-05-12
US	49641892	R1I460II1JW1N6	0679720219	764255828	The Plague	Books	2	4	21	N	N	very dull	I found the book extremely dull and boring. I can on the other hand understand and apprecitate why it's regarded as a classic. Camus'es style of writing conveys emotions very well and is more suited for a people who are very much into philosophy.<br />Camus used the word \\"abstract\\" in a way I never thought of using it and found that very interesting.  The plague represents an \\"abstraction\\" because it is so difficult to comprehend.  The plague kills many people and forces everyone in the city into internment camps. The book centers around three characters one of whom is a doctor.  The three characters are unusually contemplative and philosophical.  This is what dulled the book for me. The characters simply didn't seem like real people and I could not see them as anyone I'd ever meet.  Another thing about the story that bothered me was the fact that the events described was a fictional account of events taking place in an Algerian town, yet Arabs are seldom mentioned. There is no mention at all of the Arabic language or Islam. There is no trace of Arabic or Islamic influence anywhere. No one in the book has an Arabic or Islamic name, there are no Muslims anywhere. There are many parts of the book however that mention Christianity and churches. So it's also very culturally biased.	2003-05-03
US	49641892	R2D4Y2T7QS933Q	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	3	2	3	N	N	pursue your dreams with courage	Jonathan Livingston is a seagull who spends an inordinate amount of time learning to fly in a way seagulls weren't designed to fly. Regardless of how many times Jonathan falters and embarrasses himself, he continues his relentless quest for flight perfection. Being an ordinary gull to him was lowering his standards much to much. He wanted to be able to fly like a falcon, a feathered projectile. To Jonathan, his pursuit of flight perfection was much more important than being a part of the flock so he continued to practice his unorthodox flying skills at the expense of being banished. <br />People may call you crazy and you may lose friends; at any rate, anyone who chooses to \\"fight the system\\" or go \\"against the grain\\" will always find much opposition. If one wishes to live an easy life then by all means follow the crowd, fit in with everyone else and don't cause any friction. If you want to go beyond the call of duty to accomplish what few have ever done however, you must make many sacrifices and endure all kinds of hardships and setbacks. <br />This is a very simple story and a simple lesson but nevertheless very important. Even if you're in your teens, twenties, thirties, forties, etc. You will find this story a good thing to keep at the back of your mind when you're down and things just aren't going too well in your life.	2003-04-14
US	49641892	R3I6EIF1S2AFOP	0375702709	623656058	A Lesson Before Dying (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	well written and good food for thought	I read the cover of this book and decided to read it based on the fact that it is regarded as a classic and seemed interesting.  Since this book is fairly well known and the editorial review gives a good synopsis of it, I won't get too much into the details of the story.  Instead I'll just focus on what I got out of this powerful novel.<br />It has been said many times that living as a black man even in a highly racist society is easy.  If one wishes to fight the white supremist establishment however, it will be hard.  Sometimes the hard way is the best way though.  In the time period depicted in this book, if a black man stepped out of his place and wanted to be something other than subhuman, then he found much opposition.  <br />Grant Wiggins, a school teacher was one of a few blacks from a small cajun community in the late 1940s who found empowerment through resisting the white power establishment.  Grant Wiggins grew up around mostly uneducated people none of whom encouraged him to go the college and become a teacher.  He did however have people discourage him and tell him that he will always be nothing more than what the white man wants him to be.  Wiggins aunt (Jefferson's godmother) encourages him to visit Jefferson in prison and make him a man.  After a certain point in the story, the best that Jefferson could do was to become something that none of the whites thought he was or could ever become.   <br />The main message I got out of the book is the importance of standing up and being who you really are regardless of the situation.  Applying this in our everyday lives sends a very powerful message others who wish to break our spirit.	2003-04-06
US	49641892	R2GMYWJ7JQ23BS	1580621171	279047716	The 250 Job Interview Questions You'll Most Likely Be Asked	Books	3	3	4	N	N	some good questions	This book has some good questions to practice before interviews, but don't pay much attention to the answers given.  If one tries to tailor his answers to sound like the ones given, he will sound too much like he's reading from a script.  Read the explanations of how your answer should be and then practice  responding to the particular questions in front of a mirror or with someone posing as an interviewer.  Other than the interesting questions, the other information is very basic and can be found in any book on interviewing.  The explanations of what a good answer should sound like are ok but a bit too overly simplistic.  For example, in the question about getting fired the author says that one should be honest and say that you've corrected the problem.  In answering questions about getting fired, one needs to know how to say this.  Otherwise, you will be setting yourself up for disaster.  Also, I believe that the sample answers given are a mostly a waste.  The answers given are way too specialized.	2003-03-22
US	49641892	R1RU1RZFSSWEQD	0440202019	154673422	Coping with Difficult People: The Proven-Effective Battle Plan That Has Helped Millions Deal with the Troublemakers in Their Lives at Home and at Work	Books	5	194	203	N	N	the real difficult person is inside you	Most people have difficulty in dealing with certain personality types. An inability to deal effectively with others can cause very serious problems in morale, job performance and self esteem. It has been said that most problems related to losing one's job has more to do with human relations than with job performance per se. As a person who has been fired many times, I can attest to that statement. I've seen incompetent people keep their jobs, but I've seen several people (myself included) lose their jobs over inter-personal conflicts which seem silly in comparison. The more one is able to resolve and or avoid conflicts, the more successful they will be in the long run.<br />This book divides difficult people into seven different types namely \\"hostile-aggressives\\", \\"complainers\\", \\"silent and unreasponsives\\", \\"super-agreeables\\", \\"negativists\\", \\"know-it-all experts\\" and \\"indecisives\\". Each type of behavior is explained and real-world examples of each in action are given. The forte of the book is how it explains how to cope effectively with each type. In my dealings with others, I've found that the coping advice given is right on target. Chances are, any type of difficult person will fit into one of the aforementioned categories. If not, they will be a variation or a combination of two or more of them. The coping methods given in the book are not always easy to implement because they require a lot of practice and may require a great deal of courage. This isn't a book to just read once, the methods must be studied and practiced if you wish to benefit from it. <BR> <BR>One of the most interesting things I've discovered when reading this book is that I have fit into some of the categories of difficult people at times. The more effectively I can learn about and fight my own difficult behavior, the easier it will be for me to deal with others who possess the same traits. Regardless of how much one knows about dealing with difficult people, it can still be a battle to implement the methods given in this book. Therefore, coping with difficult people is not about using some simple trick, it's all about confronting the difficult person within each of us.	2003-03-20
US	49641892	RNHF1LTZEAAQ1	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	poignant and disturbing	\\"Red Dragon\\" was the first book of this genre that I've read and it won't be the last. I liked how Harris focused on the killer but at the same time he balanced things well by incorporating police procedure and the process of profiling the killer into the story. I think it was really neat how clues emerged as the story progressed. I found this book hard to put down mainly because there were so many unanswered questions regarding the killer. Even after more information is revealed, the story opens up all kinds of possibilities. It kept me guessing until the very end.	2003-03-02
US	49641892	R3RTF06STZAL0V	0929661524	902879080	Johns Hopkins Symptoms &amp; Remedies: The Complete Home Medical Reference	Books	3	4	6	N	N	good overview	This book is a good reference for looking up symtoms but one shouldn't use it as their only source for information regarding the remedies.  I must disagree that using a wrist-support while typing should be used to prevent Carpal Tunnel Syndrome (CTS).  All that will do is simply prolong and worsen the condition.  In summary, by restricting the movement of the wrist while typing you are allowing muscles in a small area to be overused one way while allowing other muscles to relax. <br />The book is divided into two sections: symtoms and disorders.  The first half of the book on symtoms is a three column table of Associated Symtoms, Possible Diagnosis and Distinguishing Features. The second and last half of the book on disorders gives overviews on each disorder.  The information is far from replete but does a good job at summarizing the disorders into relatively simple terms.	2003-03-01
US	49641892	R1DGKTBRAWH5LC	0451204158	562316613	Black Sunday	Books	4	2	2	N	N	dramatic and well paced thriller	Using a Goodyear blimp loaded with explosives, terrorists plan to carry out an attack on the Super Bowl. In order to carry out this elaborate plan, someone crazy enough to fly the blimp must be hand picked. Micheal Lander, a vietnam vet who suffers from Post Tramatic Stress Disorder is just the man. So a beautiful Lebanese PLO operative (Dahlia) is selected to win him over. The plot sounds simple but gets complicated because there is the issue of smuggling the explosives into the US and also the issue of a wanted member of PLO going into the US undetected. <br />The relationship between Micheal Lander and Dahlia is somewhat awkward. Don't expect too much in terms of sparks flying in their relationship. I liked how the author goes into the main character's head to show exactly what makes him tick. You know you're reading an effective thriller whenever you start rooting for the bad guy. Although I don't condone terrorism, I think the author did a good job at eliciting sympathy for the terrorists by having a very balanced perspective.<br />Just one thing in the story didn't make much sense. If one wanted to poison someone by injecting them, they would search for a vein, not an artery. Other than that minor detail, everything else is solid.	2003-01-25
US	49641892	R2S1PS25D90L7S	1558535918	24404131	End Your Carpal Tunnel Pain Without Surgery: A Daily Program to Prevent and Treat Carpal Tunnel Syndrome	Books	2	29	38	N	N	knowledge is power and misinformation is dangerous	Years ago, I had full blown Carpal Tunnel Syndrone after three months of working in a warehouse which involved constant lifting, holding and pulling.  I never went to any kind of professional regading my problem because I simply didn't have the funds.  Therefore I researched Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and did some exercises which completely eliminated all of the symptoms.<br />This book has some good information in it but it lacks important detailed information about Carpal Tunnel Syndrome and even contains some misinformation.  When one wishes to overcome Carpal Tunnel Syndrome, they need to understand exactly what it is and specifically what causes it.  This book explains that CTS is caused by median nerve compression, but it makes no mention of what exactly causes this nerve compression and why.  It also does not explain exactly why the exercises given in the book are useful (some of which are actually detrimental).  No one with CTS should do ANY kind of sqeezing exercises or curls with weights.  These types exercises are DANGEROUS and WILL worsen your condition.  Also, no one with CTS wants to press their thumb into their wrist, this can damage the nerve.  The only useful exercise given in the entire book for CTS is the rubber band exercise which involves extention of the fingers.<br />If you want to rid yourself of CTS and properly understand your problem, please avoid this book.	2003-01-24
US	49641892	RH7R7RETO4Q62	0140289038	911354571	60 Seconds & You're Hired	Books	5	30	30	N	N	very concise	This book is based on the idea that if you prepare for an interview properly, you will be hard to top in the selection process. The author of this book is regarded as one of the top career authorities in the nation. She suggests that the \\"60 second sell\\" (sometimes called an infomercial) is the most important part on the interview. The 60 second sell is a concise statement detailing the skills and qualities that would be most useful in working on the job one is interviewing for. The 60 second sell comes out of \\"a five point agenda\\" which are five statements regarding one's achievements that are relevent to the targeted position. The other information includes the types of questions one is likely to be asked, some suggested answers, questions you should ask, negotiating salary and pitfalls to avoid. If the information in this book is used the right way, I can't see why a person wouldn't get hired to any job he's qualified for.<br />I've been on many interviews over the years and failed miserably on some due to a lack of foresight and preparation. I really needed a book like this because there was so much that I was overlooking and now I can see exactly where I went wrong. I will study this book and prepare for my interviews accordingly. I would like to point out that the questions in the book and answers are not to be taken literally. Don't answer all interview questions by memorizing the answers given in this book. Use them only as guidelines to make up variations of the same questions and consider the suggested answers and use your best judgement.	2002-12-29
US	49641892	RDMTRLFNPZBXW	1570231230	550690607	Savvy Interviewing: The Nonverbal Advantage (The Careersavvy Series)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	very useful but is overly simplistic in parts	Most books on interviewing focus on what to say and how to say it. This book is different in that it focuses on the totality of the individual(i.e. demeanor, looks, speech patterns etc.). Most of the information in this book is common sense, therefore people tend to take these things lightly. When one takes things lightly, they tend to slip and cause us not to be mindful of things we should be mindful of in interviews. Things such as crossing your legs, twiddling your thumbs, using non-fluentcies such as \\"er\\" and \\"ah\\" and slouching in your seat can destroy a person's credibility and hence cost him the job. The overall opinion of you is determined within a matter seconds when meeting the employer for the first time. Therefore it is imperitive that one is mindful of his nonverbal image and practice it in everyday life so it becomes automatic. Other things contained herein are very seldom noticed by interviewees. <br />The negatives of this book are few, but I do find them irritating. <br />1) The word \\"convey\\" is overused.<br />The author should have invested in a thesaurus.<BR> <BR>2) The author seems to think that it's not appropiate to go to an interview with a shaved head or very short hair.<br />The book was published in 2000, so I'm sure short hair and shaved heads were fairly popular in all professions then.<br />3) the author seems to think that all black men have dark hair.<br />In suggesting what color suit people should wear, the author overgeneralizes about blacks hair color.  I for one have light brown hair and many other light-skinned blacks have red hair. Also, what about albinos?  No suggestions are given for people who just may happen to be albino. <br />The book really makes up for these negatives in the other useful parts, so it's worth buying.	2002-12-17
US	49641892	R3M16JKZQ47O0Q	0553283936	475102812	The Negotiator	Books	4	4	5	N	N	not like the movie	Don't mistake this novel with the film \\"The Negotiator\\" with Samuel L Jackson and Kevin Spacey.  This book has a lot more depth and action.  The story revolves around three main problems: <br />1) The Soviets will run out of oil soon and thus there are hints to invade some oil rich country(ies) to the south.<br />2) The president of the United States will soon sign an arms reduction treaty with the soviets.<br />3) The increasing dependence on the \\"corrupt\\" Middle Eastern countries for oil.<br />The last two scenarios are the main things that drive this action packed story.  A group of armaments specialists, an oil tycoon and a shipping tycoon band together to keep the president from signing the treaty and to end american dependence on the \\"corrupt Arabs\\" once and for all.  Psycological warfare is used to control the president and there's an elaborate plan to end american dependence on Saudi oil.<br />The character Quinn comes into the story in the psycological warfare part.  Quinn is an ex-green beret who reluctantly accepts a special assignment which is integral to the main plot.  Quinn in many ways is like James Bond with the exception of the fancy gadgets.  Reading this book is like watching a James Bond movie with a more intricate plot.  Surprises and twists abound.	2002-11-12
US	49641892	R3CW8WDGZXW2K5	0967286247	301872494	Conquering Deception	Books	5	71	72	N	N	the eyes don't lie	Jef Nance, a former police interrogator pulls no punches is this informative book.  After reading and actually applying some of what I learned, I realized how powerful this information is.  The information herein not only can help one to detect deception but also can help one to become better at reading people for other purposes.<br />Conquering Deception is written from the standpoint of a police detective who has years of experience in interrogating people.  Putting the information in this book to use doesn't require that you go around interrogating people.  The author points out that the best interrogations don't seem like interrogations because he talks about \\"mirroring\\" the other person's \\"plane of navigation\\" and putting the person at ease.  When asking people harmless questions, I have become more observant of which direction the eyes break contact, nose rubs, and scratching the temples (which isn't mentioned in this book).  After thinking about what was asked, the response and the accompanying behavior; I was to a large extent able to tell when someone was trying to deceive me.  In meeting people in everyday life, conqureing deception can tell us whether or not we're going to get hired after an interview or whether or not a member of the opposite sex is really interested in us.  Chapter 7 \\"The Eyes Have It\\" and the discussion on page 185 about the \\"three whites of the eyes\\" are by far the best parts of the book because the eyes can tell us so much about a person's true mental state.<br />Applying the information will require patience and practice.  One can become a true pro at reading people from the powerful information contained herein.	2002-10-12
US	49641892	R3E9B41FZKQL21	0425158632	506174805	Executive Orders (A Jack Ryan Novel)	Books	3	5	8	N	N	some unresolved issues, unexplored areas, lacks culture	A Jappanese pilot slams a passenger jet into the capital building killing the president along with much of congress and the supreme court.  Two low lifes plot to assasinate the president by default (Jack Ryan).  Another man who believes he should be president tries to dig up dirt on Jack Ryan and bring him down.  A powerful alliance called the UIR (United Islamic Republic) is formed.  The UIR then attacks the US by introducing a deadly strain of the ebola virus into the population and plot's to assasinate the president and to kidnap his daughter.  Meanwhile, India and China's navy and Air Force is acting <BR>suspiciously.  These are exciting plots and I'll add that the one involving the ebola virus was down right disturbing.  Unfortuantely, not all of these plots and issues were fully resolved, at least not to my satisfaction.  Since this is  largely a political thriller, I think the author could have gone into some of the economic ramifications of what happens.  <br />Tom Clancy writes well and seems to have a heavy interest in military weaponry and tactics but is not very culturally literate and hence makes mistakes and appears awkward when writing about non-americans and non-Christians.  A Muslim <BR>(regardless of sect) can never pray for a dead or dying person of another faith to go to heaven.  Most people who read the part of the book where a Muslim doctor is praying for a Catholic nun would not think anything of it.  This appears not only stupid to us Muslims, but contrary to our belief.  Another thing which occurs throughout the book is the use of anglicized foreign names (particularly with Muslim names).  It seems as though <BR>the names are simply phony (as if anything which looks good was just slapped on the page) and therefore takes away from some of the realism and drama of the story.  The people in the story who are supposed to be foreigners (Indian, Iranian, Chinese, etc.) just don't seem convincing to me.  It always seemed like he was <BR>writing from an American's frame of reference.  Iranians may not like Arabs but they would never call the Saudis \\"goatherds\\".  I don't know where the term \\"goatherd\\" came from, but Iranians and Arabs equally find it offensive.  Also, using the pejorative term \\"raghead\\" doesn't add anything to the entertainment value of the story.<br />One other thing about the book which annoyed me were the hackneyed references to going to the bathroom.  A few were ok but after a while, I saw them coming.  One would think that he would be more creative than that.  <br />If you wish to read a thriller writer who can cut across different nationalities with ease and sound convincing and balanced; read some of Frederick Forsyth's books.	2002-09-21
US	49641892	RUWQ4PROIH3DF	0714525995	219367290	The Demon	Books	4	8	11	N	N	about average for Selby	Harry White is an overacheiver yuppie type who has a proclivity for married women.  After he becomes well established in his job, buys a home, gets married and has children, married women no longer have the same effect on him.  Harry acheives most of the things he sets out to do (i.e. career, family, material possesions) so he comes to a point where he must find 'other things' to challenge himself to make him feel powerful and important.  He does introspection, seeks psychiatric help and tries a new hobby to no avail.  His relationship with his wife and children suffers.  Over a period of time, he develops an addiction to bizarre behavior and whenever his bizarre needs are not satisfied, he experiences withdrawal symtoms which progressively get worse.  Harry requires larger and larger doses of bizarre acts in order to find some semblance of sanity.<br />This novel is not as graphic as &quot;The Room&quot; but is just as poignant.	2002-07-04
US	49641892	R3UICRKUJ7EKB7	0345311809	384709649	Shibumi	Books	3	6	13	N	N	one compelling character, but biased	This novel concentrates on Nicolai's life and the main plot involves him being chased down by a group of clumsy Americans.  The Americans were hired to eliminate a splinter group of Israeli sympathizers who were after the terroists who killed Israeli atheletes during the Munich Olympics.  Something goes terribly wrong with the Americans plan because a person who was not eliminated during a clumsy raid has a connection to Nicolai.   <br />Nicholai Hel is a hired assassin who has certain esoteric knowledge that he uses to excel in his craft.  Shibumi, which is a special state of clarity (meditation) was something that just came naturally to him since he was very young.  The proximity sense, which can be used to not only sense the presence of others, but also to read their mental state was developed when he was serving time in solitary confinement.  It was also mentioned that he became skilled in the art of Naked/Kill which enabled him to kill with virtually anything (i.e. a sheet of paper, an ID card, plastic straw, etc.).  Exactly how he acquired this training is a mystery.  The book also avoids the gory details of how the killings took place.  There is even a footnote explaining that the details of Naked/Kill are not given so as not to give anyone any ideas.  I think leaving out the details took away from some of the drama of the story.  Novels are written all the time about various ways to kill people.  So why the author shied away from Naked/Kill is beyond me.  Nicolai is also a highly skilled Go player which means he has tremendous concentration and a proclivity for abstract problem solving.  And although he did not attain a high level of education, he also had a proclivity for pure mathematics.      <br />Nicolai was definitely a compelling character but his opposition was depicted mostly as a clumsy group of buffoons.  Racial and ethnic bigotry abounds (particularly towards Arabs) in this book.  Although Nicolai's father was German and mother Russian, he was raised in the far east and hence grew up with an asian bias.	2002-06-22
US	49641892	R2J5MG3O488PHN	0658005006	90818221	Teach Yourself Body Language	Books	2	25	32	N	N	very basic, but maybe not the best place to start	Go to the mall, the zoo or any other place which has large congregations of people from diverse backgrounds and you will discover differences in body language.  These differences in body language may lead one to guess a person's income, educational level, occupation, etc.  This book is a very general overview of body language and discusses things to look out for when studying body language.  Eye grammar (dialation, eyeball movement, breaking contact), gestures, posture and other basics are covered.  At the end of each chapter, there are exercises and experiments to help the reader understand how certain body language is used.  Not all of the experiments are explained as well as they could have been and it's not always clear what the results of the experiments/exercises mean.  The personal attraction assessment scale (chapter 14 page 157) is a good example of inadequate information being given.  The personal attraction assessment scale is a chart with physical characteristics where you are to judge (from 1 to 10) others on various physical features such as hair, face, waist, etc.  What exactly does it accomplish to know that some men/women prefer a pretty face to nice hair or vice versa?  What is the point in finding out that some men are leg men or that some women favor body build?  It doesn't take a survey to find out that different people consciously look for different things when searching for a mate.<br />A discussion on squints, smirks and facial side dominance is curiously missing from this book.  Smirks and squints are very basic to body language.  What does it mean when a smirk is on the left side of the face as opposed to the right?  What about the left side of the face being higher than the right or vice versa?  Everyone knows that a smile means that you're happy about something, but which side of the face dominates tells a lot more.  When people get older, they tend to wrinkle in patterns.  Which side of the face is more prominently wrinkled also tells about a person's personality.  All of this good information which is basic to body language was left out.  The greatest value of this book is to know what to be mindful of when making observations in studying body language and to also improve your image to others.	2002-06-05
US	49641892	R1OSM268BQAAB3	0805210407	377046405	The Trial	Books	5	2	6	N	N	very antiestablishment	One morning you wake up to discover something very strange. You find strange men in your room who've come to arrest you. The men procede to interrogate you and give no information on the reason you've been arrested and bound for trial. This is what happens to the protagonist (Josef K.) of this novel. The best way to read this novel is to put yourself into the shoes of Josef K., not just an observer. Otherwise, the story may very well frustrate you to the point where you will not finish. The paragraphs are extremely long; one of the longest paragraphs is about 11.5 pages. <br />The book focuses on Josef K. who is on a qwest to understand his situation properly. In his qwest, he has a few love interests but they are all met with frustration and despair much like everything else he tries. The more K. tries to understand and probe for information, the more he becomes tangled up in a senseless bureaucracy. For most of the book, K. is very calm and collected. He stays calm under situations that would cause most people to lose their patience and give up. Although some frustation in reading this novel is natural, one's focus is always better when calm. So it will behoove one to take a break from reading and come back later if frustration becomes too great.	2002-05-18
US	49641892	R18I408M8K1FDE	0312286910	930385819	The Veteran	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Forsyth's latest short stories	This collection of five stories are fascinating, but not as intriguing some of the other Forsyth novels I've read. The first story, \\"The Veteran\\" starts out with a mugging of an old man who is \\"special\\" or was once regarded as \\"special\\". The \\"special\\" aspect of him explains the outcome of the mugging as well as the final act of \\"justice\\". \\"The Art of Matter\\" was a step down for me compared to \\"The Veteran\\". I'm just not interested in Art and auctions. For those into trickery and art, I suppose it would be quite an engaging read. \\"The Miracle\\" was my next favorite story about a mysterious woman. The ending will take you by surprise and may even make you laugh. To get the full effect of the story, one must be careful and focus on the details of the dialogue. \\"The Citizen\\" was another great story involving a drug smuggling operation. By far, the best story of the book was \\"Whispering Wind\\" which is largely a romantic adventure. Anyone familiar with Custer's last stand at the battle of Little Big Horn or simply those interested in the old west will enjoy it tremendously. It's the type of story that many women would like because of the romantic element.	2002-04-28
US	49641892	R2IQQCNX7E2FQ1	0963420526	901748936	The Unabomber Manifesto: Industrial Society & Its Future	Books	5	26	33	N	N	The industrial/technological system must be destroyed	Feelings of inferiority accompanied by frustration, depression, anxiety and several other problems are largely a result of the disruption of what the author of this manifesto calls the power process.  A convincing arguement that this disruption on a large scale can be directly linked to the industrial/technological system is made.  High tech industrialized societies cannot exist without extremely large pyramind hierarchies which inevitably leaves most people in the bottom and powerless.  <br />In order to properly understand and appreciate the arguments given in this manifesto regarding the power process disruption, one must imagine examples.  One of the best examples that I can think of is the commute to and from work everyday.  In modern industrialized countries in the big cities, a two or three hour commute is not farfetched.  These long commutes, whether via commuter rail or car are very stressful.  We are completely powerless to the traffic conditions and how people on the road will react to what we do.  Work places in modern society are increasingly repetitious (i.e. data entry, mass production and assembly) and governed by a select few at the top who just sit on their behinds all day.  People who have the best job security are mindless drones who simply do what they are told with little or no freedom or power.  One has to put up with traffic, being packed in trains like sardines and rude and offensive people.  They even have names for conditions directly attributable to the industrial/technological system such as \\"road rage\\", \\"chronic fatigue syndrome\\", \\"carpal-tunnel syndrome\\", \\"repetitive motion sickness\\", etc.  Indeed, if one uses his imagination he can find tons of other examples.  <br />The author advocates a revolution against the system which may or may not involve violence.  Based on what I know of history, a revolt against the system WILL involve violence.  Plausible targets would be universities (particularly Engineering departments) and the purveyors of high technology/innovation.  What I don't understand is why did the alleged author of this manifesto target mostly individuals instead of things which could have had a much lasting impact like a Tim McViegh style attack on a university building or a suicide attack into a computer software company.  Also, why he didn't target highways, bridges, subways and booby trap and sabotage heavy contruction equipment is a mystery to me.<br />This is not the type of thing to be read just once and forgotten, it should be studied and discussed among like-minded individuals.	2002-04-13
US	49641892	RN8BTJFHSV5Y9	0061007129	409197252	Kane & Abel	Books	3	4	7	N	N	very well written and very conservative	First of all, I think this is a very well written book.  One of the things that attracted me to this book was the idea of following the lives of two characters from different backgrounds.  The author alternates nicely from Kane to Abel and stays consistent in describing each character and their friends and family throughout the book.  It's very fascinating how he takes us from the day each child is born until the day each character dies.  Kane and Abel grow to hate one another and then try to destroy each other.  The fight between Kane and Abel starts when one of the characters seeks revenge.  In the end, one character wins and the other loses.<br />Being that Jeffery Archer was a member of the conservative party in England, I think he wrote this book with an agenda in mind.  I did not like how conservatively biased this book was particularly with one of the characters.  Maybe about half way through this book, a keen observer will notice a conservative slant on things.  <br />Whenever I read books like this, I like to ask myself what I've learned from it.  This book is about two greedy men hungry for money and prestige.  In reading about these two characters from birth to death and observing how the drama of their lives unfold, it makes me ponder on my own life and what my values are.  People equate money with happiness because this is what society teaches us.  If you need a lot of money to be happy or content, then you are not a happy person.  Life is a constant struggle regardless of how much money you have.  Clearly, one can see from the characters lives that their abundance of money did not make their lives hassle free.  Quite the contrary was the case.  The pivotal point in the book is when someone close to one of the main characters commits suicide.  The reason why this person commits suicide has to do with money.	2002-03-23
US	49641892	R1HV9XJ7NWZKID	0960229426	13481798	003: Sex and Race, Vol. 3: Why White and Black Mix in Spite of Opposition	Books	5	22	25	N	N	the last in the Sex & Race the series	The notion that 'racial' purity is a good thing has been and continues to be taught and encouraged in society.  Although many (particularly whites) may consider it rediculous and even paranoid to think this, it is nevertheless true.  After reading J.A. Rogers Sex and Race books, I've become acutely aware of how racially conscious people are particularly when it comes to sex.  The gist of this book is that although many people (particularly whites) have aversions toward interracial marriages, they continue and will continue to have interracial offspring of every kind imaginable.  When there were laws against interracial marriages and great turbulance between whites and blacks, interracial unions were going on regardless.  Today, there are less overt suggestions that blacks and whites should not marry one another.  For example TV ads, movies, and TV programs very rarely show blacks and whites together in loving relationships and if they do they make a point that there is something odd or unusual about it.  Another thing which is done is to only use actors and actresses who appear to be very 'pure racially'.  The people we see in the movies do not acurately reflect what people look like in society.<br />The book really points out how rediculous notions of racial purity are.  It is biased towards blacks however, so anyone who reads this needs to keep an open mind and think about what is being said.  If one is offended at the suggestion that such and such a great person commonly accepted as white may have black blood then you must examine your racial sensitivities.	2002-02-25
US	49641892	R1H4CB4HL1QXQD	0553264907	977328985	The Devil's Alternative	Books	5	9	9	N	N	full of action and interesting twists	It's the early eighties and group of radical Ukranian nationalists have a debt to settle as The Soviet Union is facing a possible famine. After a Ukranian nationalist is found barely alive floating in the black sea, the stage is set for a plot which involves numerous european countries as well as the US and Israel. <br />The character development in this novel is excellent. Frederick Forsyth has a way of bringing out the personalities of the main characters very well. His knowledge of geography really shows that he does his research before he writes. I like the way the book goes from one country to another carefully discribing what is going on but not always telling the reader how it's related to the plot until later. There are quite a few surprising moments which keep your attention. There are points were you may think the story is going nowhere and then there is an abrupt change of pace with no warning. <br />It is books like this that can turn one into an avid reader of espionage novels.	2002-02-16
US	49641892	R3AKAEXNAHZFFT	0960229418	257789347	002: Sex and Race: A History of White, Negro, and Indian Miscegenation in the Two Americas, Vol. 2: The New World	Books	5	29	33	N	N	for those curious about race mixing	I read and studied J.A. Rogers books the most during a period of time when I was obsessed with blackness.  As a black man in america, I don't think being obsessed with blackness is anything to be ashamed of however.  It's simply a reaction to racism.<br />In this second volume, Roger's focuses on the new world and shows that the inhabitants of the americas are far from being pure racially.  As discussed in the previous volume, race mixing with blacks took place all over Europe.  In the new world however, whites not only mixed with blacks but also with the indigenous peoples of the americas including the caribbean.  Also, there is good reason to believe that some of the indigenous peoples of the americas were already somewhat mixed before the europeans arrived.  The one thing which I really like about J.A. Rogers books is the fact that he is not afraid to confront certain issues which are embarrasing to most whites even today.  <br />Did you ever wonder why some black people from the caribbean and south and central america don't like being called black?  Some will say because they aren't black, they are Spanish or Brazilian.  Based on historical evidence Roger's points out that the blacks of the caribbean and south and central america are just as &quot;black&quot; as the blacks in america.  It's just that some of them may look different because race mixing took place in different degrees in different areas.<br />Unfortuantely, the issue of race mixing is a very touchy issue, so a lot that is in books like this cannot be talked about without angering people unless you're in some sort of &quot;radical&quot; black group.  Therefore, much of what is contained in this book should be kept to oneself.  Regardless of what country someone is from, they don't like being told that they are of black african ancestry.  Most &quot;non-whites&quot; will say they simply don't care and are irritated by the topic.	2002-02-10
US	49641892	R2NPQFMDQOZPXU	0960229477	299705677	100 Amazing Facts About the Negro with Complete Proof: A Short Cut to The World History of The Negro	Books	5	67	77	N	N	opens up the door to further research and study	Very easy to read list of interesting facts regarding black people with references.  This opens up the door to further study because some of the things seem so fantastic that one may want to look up some of the items using the references provided.	2002-02-10
US	49641892	R2BZZNSNG5FNTM	0374525463	976963611	Running Wild	Books	5	2	7	N	N	the effects of consevative white upper class values	In 1988 this book on the ficticious pangbourne massacre was published. Since that time the columbine massacre and quite a few other massacres involving teens has occured and will undoubtedly continue. All or most of these massacres happened in times of economic prosperity in the US and were committed by white male teens from middle and upper middle class families. The book makes it very clear that the pangbourne massacre occured because the children felt compelled to break free of those things which the white upper class highly values (i.e. close-knit family, loving atmosphere, academic success, material possesions, living in a nice neighborhood, etc.). This seems ironic and troubling but if one puts some thought into it, it makes a lot of sense. Also, it is not just these values that cause (are causing) problems, it is rapid technological 'development' as well. I could discuss this issue further, but this is supposed to be a review not a soapbox. I would advise those interested in this book to also read the unabomber's manifesto. <br />I in no way advocate violence and terrorism, but I think I have a much better understanding of the root causes of the type of violence seen in recent years in schools throughout america after reading this book.	2002-01-21
US	49641892	RE36DP219P4GT	0312278446	143888033	The Best Short Stories of J. G. Ballard	Books	3	11	21	N	N	parts of this book are brilliant	I would rate a few of the stories contained in this book with five stars, but other stories bring the total rating down to 3 stars.  These are the stories which I would rate with 5 stars: &quot;The Concentration City&quot;, &quot;Chronopolis&quot;, &quot;Thirteen for Centaurus&quot;, and &quot;The Sublimiminal Man&quot;.  &quot;The Concentration City&quot; is set somewhere in the future where somethings taken for granted now have long been forgotten.  Hence things have to be reinvented and rediscovered.  Because of &quot;development&quot; however, there are almost insurmountable barriers to reinvention.  &quot;Chronopolis&quot; is a fascinating story of how using watches and clocks became illegal.  &quot;Thirteen for Centaurus&quot; is about a space station supposedly travelling to a distant gallaxy.  &quot;The Sublimiminal Man&quot; is aptly named because it is about exactly what the title says.  The rest of the stories just didn't hold my interest.  Some of them were very complex while others were simple but didn't have a good plot.  Indeed, some of the stories had no plot at all.  As far as climax is concerned, none of his stories had a climax.  Most of his stories should be read mainly for the experience as opposed to a good meat and potatoes story.  One thing about J.G. Ballard is that he certainly is very imaginative and creative.	2002-01-20
US	49641892	R11X4NSKVXYBAS	096022940X	893124792	001: Sex and Race, Volume I: Negro-Caucasian Mixing in All Ages and All Lands: The Old World	Books	5	74	80	N	N	The best	I discovered J.A. Rogers books on race about eight years ago and from time to time I still refer back to them. J.A. Rogers is considered by many to be a Psudo-historian and anytime one references his name, they are regarded as afrocentric and hence not taken seriously by the mainstream white intellectual community. Sex and Race volume I came out originally in the 1950s. A period of time when many of the so-called white intellectuals were convinced of the inferiority of blacks. Indeed, many intellectuals today are convinced of the inferiority blacks in america. Otherwise people would not constantly quote negative statistics about blacks and exaggerate. <br />In this book, Rogers not only talks of black achievement in the old world but also shows that there is no scientific basis for race because a large percentage of the world's population is &quot;mixed&quot; with black or people who are apparently of african ancestry. One of the interesting techniques used by Rogers in these sex and race books is showing photographs of people who have ascertainable &quot;black blood&quot; (no matter how slight) and leaving it up to the reader to judge. Indeed, to show how mixed we are, all one has to do is watch things like the Olympics, read National Geographic magazine and the news. <br />J.A Rogers points out that when people (particularly non-blacks) are confronted with the possibility of being of black african ancestry, they become irritated. Indeed, in some circumstances claiming that someone is of black african ancestry can get you into a lot of trouble. On the other hand, people are proud of being &quot;part German&quot;, &quot;part Dutch&quot;, &quot;part Italian&quot;, etc. Read this book to discover that Germans, Dutch, Italians and other Europeans have been mixing with blacks well before they set foot in america. Some may ask, what difference does it make who has black blood and why does it matter? On the other hand, boasting of being Italian, German, English, etc. holds no shock value. In order to move beyond racism and bigotry, we need to ask ourselves why does it matter if we are part German or other European and why doesn't this carry any kind of stigma like being part black? The problem of race prejudice in the world may never go away, but de-emphsizing the significance of being of European ancestry is a start. The next time you accuse someone of being afrocentric or boasting of the achievements of blacks, ask yourself why aren't you bothered by people constantly boasting of their European ancestry and achievements?	2001-12-30
US	49641892	R2AP9NX27S0KNS	0714530387	477371485	The Room	Books	4	36	39	N	N	a real scorcher	If Last Exit to Brooklyn didn't disgust or make you cringe, this novel definitely will.  As I stated in my &quot;Last Exit...&quot; review, &quot;Last Exit...&quot; has it's moments but is not nearly as brutal as &quot;The Room&quot;.  The main character in &quot;The Room&quot; is a convict and it is not very clear under what conditions he became incarcerated.  The convict constantly fantasizes about some very sick scenarios in which pain is inflicted on others.  The one scenario that is perhaps the worse is one involving the torture of dogs.  Graphic details are given, so if you are a dog lover and or you really hate reading about any type of animal cruelty, avoid reading this book. <br />One has to ask the question after reading this book, what kind of person entertains such sick thoughts?  The answer to that is the people are all around us.  I don't think there is a person alive who hasn't once fantasized about some pretty sick things not unlike what the main character in this book has thought about when things didn't go our way.  Interestingly, after reading this book I didn't have any sick fantasies for a while because I was so disgusted with some of the main character's thoughts.  Catharsis isn't the only redeeming aspect of the book however.  I think the book also makes very powerful statements about prison and being incarcerated.	2001-12-20
US	49641892	R3E5WR34RVMIWW	0553572423	328007521	The Fist of God	Books	5	3	4	N	N	intriguing	Although this represents my first Forsyth novel and my first spy novel I know a good one when I read one. I've watched quite a few good espionage movies including &quot;The Day of The Jackel&quot; and &quot;The Odessa File&quot; (based on Forsyth novels). I read this book because I was impressed at the depth of the two movies mentioned above. After 9/11/01, I also wanted to read something which relates to the going ons in the middle east.<br />The obtjectives of the story are simple: First, to find out if Saddam Hussain has any weapons which may pose a serious threat to the allied forces in the gulf. Secondly, if he has any weapons destroy them before he plans to use them.  The story becomes somewhat complex because in order to meet the objectives, a well coordinated intelligence operation involving people in the US, Europe, Iraq, Israel and Kuwait must take place. The entire operation involves scholars, spooks and sneeks (special ops and spies) and even someone with close connections to Saddam himself. The whole story of how an SAS man was able go deep into Iraq incognito was fascinating and believeable. The SAS man whose name is Mike Martin was sent in Iraq to gather intelligence on the weapons and then help to destroy them. The information Mike gets is not first hand however. Mike must depend on another mysterious character known only as Jerico. (...)	2001-12-02
US	49641892	R9MEVEQG29M79	0802131379	670986725	Last Exit to Brooklyn (Evergreen Book)	Books	3	8	10	N	N	has its moments	After reading 'Requiem for a Dream' I was enthusiastic about reading this highly rated book.  Like 'Requiem for ...', all of the characters in this novel do not do any introspection and are either unable or unwilling to see themselves objectively largely because of their environment.  Basically this book takes us into the minds of the powerless; those who live on the fringes of society; the people looked down on by society at large.  We see things from their eyes, we walk in their shoes and experience what they experience.<br />The idea that the playing field is level and anyone can do what they want if they just work hard is just plain ....  Although I didn't grow up in the inner city, I was not completely sheltered and hence can understand how a person's environment shapes who they are and their opportunities in life.  After reading this book, I became even more educated about life on the fringes in the inner city.  I've met people from the inner city who've told me that I can't understand where they are coming from since I haven't 'experienced' what they have 'experienced'.  Regardless of what people say, I think reading Last Exit brings one closer to experiencing life in 'the other america' and forces us to really appreciate our lives more.    <br />The sad thing about books like this is that the people who really need a dose of it turn their noses up and ignore the message.	2001-10-17
US	49641892	R22PO9F8YJQ23M	1560252480	592035995	Requiem for a Dream: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	a deep book	I've seen the movie and then read the book after reading the reviews.  My only regret is that I saw the movie first, but I don't think the intensity of the story was impaired.  I consider myself very strong emotionally, yet I felt like crying close to the end.  There was a much deeper feeling of sadness I got from reading this book than I had experienced when seeing the movie.  Selby's use of imagery and his ability to go into the characters heads is his forte.<br />All four characters had somewhat realistic dreams in the beginning; one wanted to lose weight and appear on a TV game show, two of them wanted to make it big in the drug trade and then get out clean and one wanted to go to Europe and open up a coffe shop/art gallery.  As the story went on these dreams seemed more and more unrealistic.  All of the characters became distracted by drug addiction yet they did not even know it.  In fact, three of the chracters (Tyrone, Harry and Marion) actually looked down on drug addicts yet they wound up being junkies themselves.  Tyrone and Harry who are best friends see all kinds of bad things happen (i.e. people die, man with needle marks down his jugular vein, junkies using dirty toilet water to shoot) which should have served as warnings to get out of the bussiness and stop shooting junk.<br />There's quite a lot of profanity in this book, but it's necessary to show exactly the kinds of people being portrayed.  Selby does a good job in using slang which shows how particular people think and communicate.  It's almost like Selby has walked in his characters shoes and experienced their thoughts and pains.	2001-09-26
US	49641892	RXWW4L5X78JUJ	0679742441	138945486	How We Die: Reflections of Life's Final Chapter, New Edition	Books	4	14	24	N	N	very good material, but I have a problem with chapter 8	This book names and explains the most common ways in which one will die.  My favorite quote from the book is &quot;good health guarantee's nothing&quot;.  By this the author means that you have no control over when and how you will die.  A person in tip top physical shape could be killed by a natural disaster, a murderer, a freak accident, disease or could become very old and die a very slow and agonizing death.  While an obese person may get colon cancer and wind up dying with a smile on his face. <br />All of the chapters of the book with the exception of chapter 8 is five star material.  I enjoyed studying chapter 2 and learned a great deal about how the heart operates and exactly what happens when people get heart disease.  I found the story in chapter 3 about the author's grandmother slowly deteriorating over the years and dying particularly poignant.  He wrote about what was going on with her and explained why different things were happening.  This made me reflect on what will eventually happen to me as I grow older (if I make it that far).  I also found chapter 5 on Alzheimer's equally poignant.  He wrote about how a woman's life changed after realizing that her husband had Alzheimer's.  Reading about what the woman had to go through with her husband may bring tears to your eyes.  There are other parts of the book which are just as sad, but the chapters on Alzheimer's and on the author's grandmother affected me the most.  <br />In chapter 8 on AIDS, the author quotes the bible and seems to lose his objectivity to a certain extent by becoming emotional.  As a muslim, I disagree with god ever being without sight or hearing as the author prefers to conclude with AIDS.  If the natural order of things is not necessarily the will of god, then who or what is the natural order of things?<br />Enough books quote the bible, I will leave with a quote from the Qur'aan (english translation)<br />29:57  &quot;Everyone shall taste the death.  Then unto Us (god) you shall bereturned.&quot;<br />Since everyone will die and be returned to his or her creator, everyone should prepare for that moment.  &quot;How We Die&quot; is good preparation but is not the final word.	2001-09-01
US	49641892	R1KKFC2H1OEGEJ	0415912709	35413100	African Muslims in Antebellum America: Transatlantic Stories and Spiritual Struggles	Books	4	11	17	N	N	a very good book	This book is nine chapters of mostly biographical information of muslims from west africa who got caught in the north american slave trade.  The first two chapters are an overview the muslims and historical accounts.  Chapters 3-9 concentrate on the lives of some of the most well known muslims and what others wrote about them.  <br />The reason why I didn't give this book five stars is because of the author's use of Ar-Rahman as if it is Ibrahim 'adurraHmaan's last name.  In the muslim faith, it is blasphemous to refer to a person as Ar-RaHmaan or any of the other names of allah (god).  This may seem like a small issue to most, but it is a very serious issue because the author is showing his ignorance of Islam and spreading ignorance among the readers who know little or nothing about Islam.  The readers of this book will see the casual use of ar-Rahman and think that it's ok to use it for short 'adurraHmaan.  Since the author has a Ph.D, I think he should have had knowledgeble muslims read through his book before publication.	2001-08-03
US	49641892	R2Y78NY02MD1X0	0521446635	13837327	How to Prove It: A Structured Approach	Books	5	137	141	N	N	I wish I had such a book before taking advanced calculus	Believe it or not, I graduated with a BS in math without being able to write proofs all that well.  I got an &quot;A&quot; in advanced calculus and abstract algebra due mostly to the fact that the majority of the students in the class couldn't write proofs.  Over a decade later, I was browsing through the math books at my local book store and found this book.  After working through some of the problems and studying some of the material, I wished that I had this book a year or so before taking advanced calculus (introductory real analysis).  Actually, this book can be handled by a person just finishing high school.  My advice to all math majors who don't have a solid foundation in mathematical proofs is to get this book as soon as you can, study it and work many of the problems.  This way when you have to take advanced calculus, topology or abstract algebra you will not be struggling to learn how to write proofs.  I can not guarrantee that you will breeze through these courses after studying this book, but you will be spending more time on learning concepts and little or no time on the methods and techniques of proofs.  <br />Set Theory is the foundation on which mathematical proofs are based.  This book emphasizes set theory.	2001-08-03
US	49641892	R10MJRVC9G1OBD	0933121180	564468919	100 Years of Lynchings	Books	4	82	85	N	N	gloomy but informative	This book has no table of contents, no index and no pictures but just newspaper reports from 1880 to 1961 on various lynching incidents.  The headlines are all in bold type and the complete articles are given.  The articles are not an easy read for the squeamish.  All of the gory details of the lynchings are given including why the victim was lynched, how the victim was tortured before the lynching and the method used for execution.<br />Here are some examples of a few headlines to give you an idea of the content:<br />&quot;First Negro at West Point Knifed by Fellow Cadets&quot; &quot;Texans Lynch Wrong Negro&quot; &quot;Lynched for Being Black&quot; &quot;Wrong Man Lynched as Rapist&quot; &quot;Negro Youth Mutilated for Kissing White Girl&quot; &quot;Negro Shot Dead for Kissing his White Girlfriend&quot;      The redeeming value in a book like this is that it's a study of human behavior.  It shows how far people can and will go in the name of hate and what kinds of things people are capable of.	2001-07-05
US	49641892	R35BPF3WPFNUJN	0960229450	219198452	Nature Knows No Color-Line: Research into the Negro Ancestry in the White Race	Books	5	96	107	N	N	one of the best books on race mixing ever written	This book was originally published in 1952 and then renewed in 1980.  This book along with the author's three volume series &quot;Sex and Race&quot; are simply the best books ever written on the issue of race mixing.  <br />The book consists of 11 chapters which are:<br />I. Where did the color problem originate? and why<br />Rogers investsigates the origin of black/white racism by looking at what has been written about black skin and black people in ancient times.<br />II. Color prejudice among whites and among darker peoples for their own kind.<br />Examples of racist beliefs in Greece, Ancient India and Europe.  Numerous photos of sculptures are given along with references.<br />III. Negroes in Ancient Europe - Greece<br />The title of this chapter speaks for itself.  There are numerous illustrations.  The one flaw in this chapter that I found is the statement by the author that one finds the least race predudice in Europe.  Maybe this was true in the 50s, but it certainly isn't true today.  Iceland is perhaps the only European country with very little or no race predudice today.  With the advent of immigration however, I wouldn't be surprised to see racism grow in Iceland just as it has grown in Europe since the 50s.<br />IV. Intermixture of whites and blacks in ancient Rome<br />As usual, Rogers provides numerous notes with references along with illustrations.<br />V.  Racial intermixture in Spain and Portugal<br />The history of the moors in spain is discussed.  It is a well known fact that the moorish scholars laid down the foundation of scientific thought in Europe.  <br />VI. The negro as &quot;moor&quot; - negro ancestry in aristocratic european families<br />Coats of arms of eminent black English, French, Dutch, Beligian, Italian, Spanish, Polish, German and central european families is given.  Many of the pictures show black people wearing jewels, crowns, and holding swords.  Whatever they are wearing or doing, they are obviously people of very high status.  There is no doubt that the royal family of England has blacks in their family.  On the cover of the book, there is a picture of Queen Charlotte Sophia who obviously is woman of black ancestry. <br />VII. Mixtures of whites and blacks in Greece, Turkey, Italy and Central Europe<br />Pictures of the European slave market is given along with pictures of blacks in Russia, Belgium and Holland.  There are also pictures German women with their interracial children.  Interracial marriages in Norway and Denmark are also mentioned.<br />VIII. Negro ancestry in the French<br />IX. Negro ancestry in the Anglo-Saxon &quot;race&quot;<br />Throughout europe there are indeed many prominent people who are of black ancestry.<br />X. Negro ancestry in white america<br />XI. Some recent well-to-do mixed marriages mentioned in the press<br />A listing of interracial marriages (names and dates) in the US, some of which brought prison terms.	2001-07-04
US	49641892	RG1L96N3OB5Y7	0194361977	216465693	The Oxford Picture Dictionary English/Arabic: English-Arabic Edition (The Oxford Picture Dictionary Program)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	mumtaaz!	Although this book was designed for beginning and low-intermediate Arabic students learning english, it's still useful for english students learning arabic mostly at the intermediate levels wishing to learn everyday arabic. I've been consistently studying arabic for 6 years and find this book very useful. There is no need to know how to use an arabic dictionary because there is an english index and table of contents. On the other hand, one must know how to read and speak arabic before using this book because there is no arabic pronuciantion guide. <br />In this book there are 12 chapters consisting of different topics such as food, plants and animals, clothing and recreation. I bought this book because I was wishing to improve my fluency by being able to talk about mundane things in arabic. For six years, I've been mostly bogged down in grammar, profound Quranic terms and tajweed (proper recitation). Now I have a renewed motivation for learning more spoken arabic. .. with over 3,700 words and detailed illustrations this book is a must for any serious arabic student.	2001-06-23
US	49641892	R2R8TXEGLL6NOL	1894412664	416530047	AL Mawrid (Arabic-English Dictionary)	Books	3	55	55	N	N	Al-Mawrid Qaamus	A few years ago, a brother at a masjid gave this dictionary to me as a gift.  Before that, the Hans Wehr dictionary was all I had to go on.  Since this dictionary isn't based on the three consonant root system, there is no need to know the root of an arabic word before looking it up.  There have been quite a few words which I could not find in my Hans Wehr because I simply didn't know the root.  I use this dictionary to look up words when I don't know the root.  Once a word is found, I can easily find the root by looking at the arabic definition and similar words provided.  Knowing the root enables me to use my Hans Wehr in order to find the verb forms, examples of usage, and more elaborate definitions in english.  <br />This dictionary doesn't give the verb forms and the definitions are not that detailed because examples of word usage is nonexistent.  The book is also too large and a real pain in the neck to carry around.  It's good for looking up words quickly and finding roots, but for more serious study of arabic there is no substitute for the Hans Wehr dictionary of modern written arabic.	2001-06-15
US	49641892	R3TCLU5WV93MVV	0814478611	137636195	Your Own Worst Enemy: How to Overcome Career Self-Sabotage	Books	3	7	7	N	N	chapter 2 makes the book	Chapter 2 of this book titled &quot;Self-Sabotaging Life Scripts&quot; was the most informative for me.  The various case histories were also useful in demonstrating the different types of career sabotage.  The questionnaire in chapter 1 isn't very useful because I've been fired numerous times from different jobs and commited self-sabotage, yet I scored very low in my self-sabotaging tendencies.  Therefore, I don't think the questionnaire asks the right kinds of questions.<br />The unfortunate thing about books like this is that people don't read them until it is too late to make much of an impact on their career.  Personally, I read this book after I've been fired numerous times and all but ruined my chances for a career comensurate with my background.  I might not ever be able to have the same room for growth as I would have had if I hadn't sabotaged my career.  Because of this book and my experiences however, it's unlikely that I will screw up what I have now and wind up worse.	2000-12-24
US	49641892	R1K5R5LGBF8E2N	0814719058	817030153	Servants of Allah: African Muslims Enslaved in the Americas	Books	4	8	11	N	N	good but I have one problem	I would have given this book five stars if it wasn't for the strong opinion the author had about another excellent book on the subject. Diouf says in this book that \\"(Dis)Forming the American Canon\\" by Ronald Judy is filled with deconstructionist jargon. The other thing which bothered me about this book was the fact that she failed to mention that Judy's book contains perhaps the best translation and analysis of Ben Ali's \\"Diary\\" even though it's not a full translation.<br />I found the information regarding muslim slave revolts and the muslim legacy most interesting. The discussion about how traces of muslim/arabic culture have been preserved in the african-american culture (many times unknowingly) through poetry and music is particularly interesting.	2000-04-25
