US	49651539	RERF7UQO8GF1H	0060938110	133676907	The Gift of Therapy: An Open Letter to a New Generation of Therapists and Their Patients	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Tips on how to do Good Work	Although I'm not currently working as a therapist, I still enjoy reading books about therapy from time to time.  I read Yalom's Theory and Practice of Group Psychotherapy in graduate school and highly enjoyed it, so I hoped I would find this book interesting as well.<br /><br /> In this text Yalom offers advice to therapists that he has gleaned through his years of work as a therapist and as a client.  Some of the main things he discusses here are how important it is for a treatment provider to have experienced their own time as a client, how to use the \\"here and now\\" in treatment and how vital it is to his own theory of change, and the use of dreams in treatment.  Obviously these are just a few of the things he focuses on, but these are what stood out as important and resonated with my own theories of change.  The style of the book is great - each chapter discusses one small aspect of the treatment process and some of the chapters flow together as a good lecture in \\"how to...\\" should.  I think that the best thing about this book is that the chapters are short - they range from one page to at the most four or five pages.  This format gives the reader the ability to read the chapter then sit and think about the implications of what was said and how it can be useful to them.  As a reader you don't feel the need to go on to the next \\"part\\" immediately because the \\"chapter line\\" so clearly delineates a new thought or suggestion.<br /><br /> I highly suggest this book to all treatment providers and students of therapy practices.  I wish that there were more books like this that gave the reader a view into the minds of eminent scholars in different fields.	2005-08-24
US	49651539	R1ML8AWVLS76EH	0674013255	786854947	What the Best College Teachers Do	Books	5	18	19	N	N	Inspire yourself to teach better	I read about this book on a psychology teaching email list that I belong to and it seemed like it would be a great book.  It turns out that the recommendations were correct.  The author and his colleagues created a study where they followed college teachers form many disciplines and found what exactly made these people \\"the best college teachers.\\"  The author describes what they know about how students learn, how they prepare to teach, what they expect from their students, how they conduct class, how they treat their students, and how they evaluate their students and themselves.  This isn't a \\"how to be a great teacher\\" book, but it gives many great suggestions for how to improve your teaching and your courses.  I highly suggest this book to anyone who is interested in teaching and is interested in how to make their courses more student-centered.	2005-08-19
US	49651539	RJAM0JH81FMF5	0446679496	790284750	Hypocrite in a Pouffy White Dress: Tales of Growing Up Groovy and Clueless	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Just Perfect	I don't get to do much \\"leisure reading,\\" but I'm a sucker for a great cover.  When I saw the little blond scowling girl dressed in a tutu, tiara, fairy wings, striped stockings, and combat boots (and of course carrying a \\"magic\\" star wand) I smiled and was intrigued.  Since I felt the same way after I read a page, I got it out of the library.<br /><br /> The best thing I noticed was Gilman's writing style - it's very conversational while still using \\"big\\" words and sophisticated phrasing (with the occasional profanity).  Reading her book was like sitting and listening to a (never-boring) friend talk about their life experiences.  And not just any life experiences - some of them are \\"funny ha ha\\" and some of them are \\"funny strange.\\"  I actually did laugh out loud a few times while reading the book, which is something I don't experience often.  Another great thing about the book was that unlike many \\"coming of age\\" pieces, the reader doesn't feel that sickly sweet sense of \\"I'm so happy things worked out for her!\\"  It's as if the movements that the character experiences are authentic experiences rather than those that are usually contrived for stories of this sort.  You can actually see yourself in what she says; it's instructional but not in an \\"in your face\\" sort of way.  I definitely suggest people read this.  I think you'll find see a lot of yourself or people you know in it.	2005-08-15
US	49651539	R2QSJVX3SI5K4Q	193285701X	920053008	American Terminator: Myths, Movies, and Global Power	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Not So Terminator	Having thoroughly enjoyed the authors' previous book, Why Do People Hate America?, I started reading this with two expectations in mind: either a) I would enjoy this book as much as the last one, or b) this book would be a rehashing of the last book and thus annoying.  What I found in this book is some of the same tightly-argued points about American global empire in addition to a discussion of how the American entertainment industry is used to create and perpetuate American domination of other cultures.<br /><br /> The authors begin by stating that Americans live by ten laws of mythology: fear is essential; escape is the reason for being; ignorance is bliss; America is the idea of nation; democratization of everything is the essence of America; American democracy has the right to be imperial and express itself through empire; cinema is the engine of empire; celebrity is the currency of empire; war is a necessity; and all of American tradition and history are universal narratives applicable across time and space.  After stating these laws they go on to analyze one American film per law, explaining how it demonstrates that law.  As a person who enjoys watching movies I liked how they deconstructed each one and applied it to the law being discussed, and I even read about some older movies that I hadn't seen or heard of.  Appreciating that aside, I do have to say that I disagree with some of their points about the \\"laws\\" and that the authors tended to stray from the subject often in order to bring in information that had little applicability to the current topic but that reinforced the themes of the book which were that most Americans seem very insular and narcissistic to non-Americans, have very little idea what their government is doing internationally, and don't understand what the repercussions of their government's actions will be.<br /><br /> I definitely suggest that others read this but my caution is \\"don't judge a book by its cover\\" - there's very little discussion of Arnold Schwarzenegger to be found and the title seems to indicate more of a discussion of him and what it says about America that a foreign-born actor is the governor of California.rnold Schwarzenegger to be found and the title seems to indicate more of a discussion of him and what it says about America that a foreign-born actor is the governor of California.   <br />	2005-08-10
US	49651539	R1LVPIVC41EI1A	0684853787	999464161	Bobos In Paradise: The New Upper Class and How They Got There	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Hey, I know you...	I don't think it's possible for me to write down everything I think about this book into one review.  I think the review would end up being as long as the book.  I will try to hit the main points of my impressions without going on for too long though.<br /><br /> My first thought is that Brooks' description of bobo (bohemian and bourgeoisie) culture and behavior is highly entertaining and right on target.  I've known many people like this (and would myself be classified as a bobo) and can see them and myself in his writings.<br /><br /> The second thing that reading this book has brought me to do is to analyze my surroundings in terms of a bourgeoisie/bohemian distinction.  Where I live is decidedly bourgeoisie, whereas I'm used to a much more bohemian culture.  The other day I went into a department store and saw a new style of plates and glassware that were definitively bohemian.  I asked a clerk if they had been selling and he gave me an emphatic negative answer, which I found amusing.<br /><br /> In all I would have to say that Brooks' book has some great information and is highly entertaining.  My only wish is that he referenced his sources for the small bits of information so I could go back and read those references myself.	2005-08-08
US	49651539	R3GB2ZVEZS9O4S	0679735291	413237642	The Body Project: An Intimate History of American Girls	Books	4	29	31	N	N	Sad but True	This book was referenced in a text that I read regarding teen sexuality, and since the reference sounded interesting I found a copy of it.  Brumberg discusses here what she calls the \\"body projects\\" of teenage and adult women and how these projects have changed over time.  By \\"body projects\\" she means what women are focused on changing about themselves at a particular place in history, whether it be the face, the body, or their sexuality.  In describing these particular projects the author goes into detail about the history of menarche and menstruation, acne, and the hymen while also discussing the history of the social aspects of virginity and how female sexuality was (and is) perceived and discussed within a family and society.<br /><br /> I really enjoyed reading this book for many reasons.  First, it is rare that you can find a well-written social history text that covers such a variety of subjects.  Second, the author uses diary entries from women from many different time periods to elucidate her points, and reading the first-person accounts of Victorian women can be very entertaining (\\"They thought what?!\\") while also enlightening and educational.  Third, the author makes a major point to remind the reader that girls today are maturing earlier in a world filled with sexualized images and messages yet we are denying them education as to how to safely use these new bodies they have developed.  She describes how we are doing our girls a disservice by not assisting them with creating their own moral codes and standards, which I very much agree with.  I would suggest this book to any woman, especially a woman who has a daughter who is (or will be) a teenager.  The dialogues that Brumberg suggests need to happen, and reading this book may spark that realization in all of us.	2005-07-06
US	49651539	R13FSJBCNBQMN1	0688172172	960249998	Phantoms in the Brain: Probing the Mysteries of the Human Mind	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Cognitively engaging	All through graduate school I knew that neuropsychology was not my area.  I couldn't remember the important parts of the brain or what they did very well (and I sometimes still can't remember) and it all just seemed so complicated.  Since I know it's one of my weak areas I decided to read more neurology and neuropsychology works, and this was the first book I found.  I'm glad that I started with this book - it's very easy to understand yet highly informative at the same time.  It's written in a very entertaining way, like a good lecture.  I think this would be a great book for a graduate neuro class or even a higher level undergraduate class.  Keep in mind that it's very dense, meaning that it's packed with information and doesn't give the reader many breaks from being cognitively engaged.  Interestingly some of the chapters are also thought-provoking on a philosophical level (as much of psychology is), so keep that in mind as you're reading as well.	2005-06-13
US	49651539	R1FB3WKNOJCJJI	0451191137	325409950	Anthem	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Individualism vs. collectivism	A good friend of mine is a huge fan of Ayn Rand and this novel, so I checked it out of the library along with a book about the author and her writing.  Reading this I started thinking about many different things.  The story is about a world where collectivism reigns; \\"we\\" (a person) follow orders, are assigned occupations, and dutifully do your work.  An individual is never alone and anything made by a person working by themselves is evil.  The main character does not agree with these things, and finds himself alone working on inventions and having \\"illegal\\" conversations with a beautiful woman.  This sort of story line reminds me of A Brave New World, but the reasoning for the way of the world is different.  As I read it I kept thinking that her demonstration of such extreme collectivism may lead to some extreme individualism, but also that by showing these extreme version it creates a stark contrast to what we see as \\"freedom\\" in today's world.  There were many other things that it made me think of, but I'll go bother my friend with those.  This is a definite must read, and it's only 105 pages.  It took me an hour to read it.  If you can find a copy of it (it's sometimes difficult to find), you should find an hour to read it.	2005-06-13
US	49651539	RLQ1II1KTTO6K	0060394072	745283847	American Terrorist: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Patriotism vs. Terrorism	One of my students discussed this book in a paper and stated that he had really liked it, so I decided to read it as well.  Although I knew some about the OKC bombing, I didn't really know much.<br /><br /> The book is written by two journalists who interviewed McVeigh, people who knew McVeigh, and people who were affected by what he did.  The number of first-person accounts are staggering, and the information the authors gleaned from their interviews creates a very interesting picture of McVeigh, his life, the bombing, and his time in jail.  As you read the book you don't get the feeling that the authors are attempting to sway your opinion of McVeigh - it's very even-handed and factual.  Because of this I felt that the book was far longer than it needed to be.  There were many sections that could have conveyed the point without the length.<br /><br /> I highly enjoyed reading this book and definitely suggest it to anyone interested in McVeigh's life.  For any number of reasons, the book ends before he is executed, which I disliked.  I would have liked to have heard about how people felt about the execution after it had taken place.  Interviews on that topic may have brought up feelings that the authors may not have wanted to deal with though, which is completely understandable.	2005-06-06
US	49651539	R2QUBXMNVVQGWV	0156028158	968840039	Odd Girl Speaks Out: Girls Write about Bullies, Cliques, Popularity, and Jealousy	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Memory Reminders	As we age I think it becomes harder and harder for us to remember our childhoods accurately.  I was finishing up this book as I was giving a final exam and one of my students asked me, \\"Why are you reading that?\\"  I tried to explain to her the research on female aggression that psychologists have been doing.  I also tried to explain to her that authors like Simmons are making these research results and the personal \\"case studies\\" they apply to more available to the public and accessible to the people who need them (i.e., young girls, parents, and teachers).  Both of these reasons should be enough for a person to read this collection of accounts of aggression, but I also feel things like this are important to read specifically because our memories are not accurate and maturity overrides our negative experiences sometimes.  Even if you've forgotten what it was like to have no friends or to fear losing the friends you do have, your daughter, student, or client has not.	2005-05-10
US	49651539	R22ERS0J96A397	0394713788	54149241	Is There No Place on Earth for Me?	Books	4	18	18	N	N	The Revolving Door of Schizophrenia	Reading this book is like watching a train wreck in progress.  You can't take your eyes off of it because you want to know how it all works out.  When I was putting together a course on psychology in literature a friend gave me this book but made me promise to return it because it was a favorite of hers.  After reading it, I can understand why.  The author does a fantastic (although disturbing) job of describing the life of a woman with schizophrenia while also discussing the impact that the woman's illness has on her family.  While reading the book the reader often begins to feel the anxiety and frustration experienced by Sylvia, a woman with schizophrenia, and her family, and can see in their mind's eye how the disease unfolds and engulfs their lives.<br /><br /> This is a great text for a student of psychology who is interested in descriptions of the disease and also of historical (1970s) views of the mental health system.  It would also be helpful for the family members of a person diagnosed with schizophrenia to read so that they can have a greater understanding of the life of a person affected by the disorder.	2005-04-30
US	49651539	R1DV5MF0Q24EK2	0316159417	36886929	The Bookseller of Kabul	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Family Life and Culture	All of the reviews that I read of this book were highly positive and the topics (family life and culture in post-Taliban Afghanistan) are interesting to me.  So I had hoped to really enjoy this book.  Unfortunately that was not the case.  Although the issues discussed were very thought-provoking in nature (gender, relationships, and culture) and the story was entertaining, the actual writing and treatment of issues seemed too simplistic and watered-down to me.  I felt that the book merely glossed over some topics that could have been highly interesting to the reader, but my first thought in response to that was, \\"Maybe that was all of the information she could get.\\"  In a society that previously meted out physical and capital punishment for \\"crimes\\" that may go unpunished or may even be ignored in our society, one learns to either keep certain thoughts or feelings to themselves or does not even have them at all.<br /><br /> On a positive note, I think that what we may be seeing here is a \\"first look\\" at the experience of feeling free of the Taliban.  What will be even more interesting than this initial endeavor is to see what changes occur within the coming years and compare them to this first glimpse at post-Taliban society.	2005-04-18
US	49651539	R50PMFTY5T0GP	0971394253	975323778	Why Do People Hate America?	Books	5	10	25	N	N	Why?	After finishing this book I sat down to write a review and was at a loss.  I felt overwhelmed.  I felt disturbed.  I even felt slightly disgusted to be labeled as an American.  The authors begin by taking a quote from a woman in New York on 9/11 (\\"Why do they hate us?\\") and move on to explain the many possible reasons that people can feel hatred for America.  One reason that really stuck out for me was America's history of duplicity, our attitude of \\"You should do this, but we Americans are going to do something completely different.\\"  America bullies others into signing treaties that we never enforce ourselves.  Historically, and currently, we are A Hypocrite.  And in acting as such we give other countries no reason to trust our word.  A second reason that stuck out was the human propensity to label \\"us\\" and \\"them:\\" the \\"in-group\\" and the \\"out-group.\\"  Humans tend to label things in this way and it takes training and practice to think less concretely.  The authors describe America's use of this, but also remind the reader that other countries are just as likely to label all Americans in one specific way.<br /><br /> Although it made me feel uncomfortable, I really enjoyed reading this book.  It was well-written and presented numerous viewpoints (as opposed to \\"the one way to think\\") while giving the reader a lot to think about.  For instance, why don't Americans, in general, know the names of foreign leaders (even the ones we would call our allies)?  Why didn't my students know where Afghanistan and Iraq were before 2001?	2005-02-24
US	49651539	R1CNJ93CTMW6FX	0142001082	860473964	The Plug-In Drug: Television, Computers, and Family Life	Books	4	40	43	N	N	Kill Your Television	As a researcher and a college educator, I didn't expect much when I picked up this book.  The topic interested me, so I checked it out of the library, but with reservations.  I expected scathing rhetoric that belittled all positive uses of TV.  I expected Winn to be a \\"Kill Your Television\\" type of author.<br /><br /> What I found in this book surprised me, to say the least.  Winn sited hundreds of studies that described the possible negative effects of television but kept her \\"thus proving that TV is the devil\\" mentality to a dull roar.  Although there were instances where she stated that a study's results \\"prove\\" that TV is bad for kids, this was not the main mantra of her book.  Winn stated that she understood why parents used TV in the home, and gave suggestions for how to change the viewing habits of a child and a family.  She described personal accounts of TV Turnoffs, some positive and some negative in their outcome.  She also discussed other media such as the Internet and video games, and gave information about how these may affect children as well.<br /><br /> The best use that I found for this book was as a jumping-off point for discussions in my child psychology classes.  My reading this book gave me the opportunity to discuss these opinions and research findings with my students, and I found that these discussions gave them a lot to think about.  Personally this book made me examine my own childhood that was filled with TV and also made me question whether I will allow my own future children to watch this \\"drug.\\"	2005-02-20
US	49651539	R3UOLYO9WVM1N1	0385491085	435305448	Lady Oracle	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worlds Colliding	This is the third Atwood book I've read, and I really enjoy her work.  Her stories tend to suck you in, and by the middle of the book you're having trouble putting it down because you want to finish it.  It's as if some of her stories are so implausible that you can't imagine what could happen next, so you have to keep reading.<br /><br /> In Lady Oracle Atwood describes the life of Joan, a woman who has had many negative experiences as a child and makes some bad choices as an adult.  The story goes back and forth from her present life to her childhood, and the flashbacks continue through the story to bring you up to speed on her life.  This is the same form that Atwood's two other books that I have read have taken as well.  Joan becomes a celebrated author, but her husband, the impetuous Arthur, has negative things to say about her and her work.  She becomes involved in scandals and finds that the only way out may be to fake her own death (which continues her pattern of placating others and not being able to do for herself).<br /><br /> In all this is another great book, but I personally felt that the ending was anti-climactic, leaving the reader with no sense of closure.	2005-02-14
US	49651539	RL75HPYAGJUYM	0375413081	465648476	True Notebooks	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Authentic Voice	Mark Salzman was a writer with writer's block.  He couldn't quite make a juvenile delinquent character multidimensional, so he asked for some help from his friend Duane.  Duane volunteered as a writing teacher at a juvenile detention facility in LA and Mark went to observe the class.  After observing the class Mark is talked into offering his own class, and begins meeting with some of the \\"gentlemen\\" twice per week.<br /><br /> There are a few specific things I would like to comment on here before wholeheartedly recommending this book to anyone who has worked with this population (male teenagers \\"offenders\\") or anyone who has a negative stereotype about \\"kids in juvenile hall.\\"  Walking in on your first day and putting your stereotypes aside is not the easiest thing to do, but Salzman did it and stuck with his class.  One major thing that I noticed was that Salzman didn't push his views or experiences on his students - he allowed them to speak in their authentic voices and to talk about the things that were truly important and influential to them.  He also didn't \\"leave his hat at the door\\" as so many educators do.  Personally I feel that if you're going to teach and help your students to find their voices and themselves, you shouldn't only think about that while you're at school (or in class).  Salzman demonstrated that he had internalized his students and class by going above and beyond what his (unpaid) teaching required.  He found students dictionaries so they could translate their first language into written English, he attended hearings for his students and offered to speak on their behalf, and he treated his students as peers in the writing area, rather than juvenile delinquents he was teaching.  I feel that all of these things combined made Salzman the influential figure that he was to these boys.<br /><br /> If I were to make any negative statements about this book they would be fused with the negativity that dominates our society when discussing the areas of corrections and juvenile crime.  Having had experience in these areas, I feel as if the overarching tone of the book is positive but in reality this is not always the case.  When one thinks about it in terms of the positive impact that one person can have on adolescents it does leave the reader with a positive feeling and hope that there are more people who are able to work with these adolescents (and others) on this level.tions and juvenile crime.  Having had experience in these areas, I feel as if the overarching tone of the book is positive but in reality this is not always the case.  When one thinks about it in terms of the positive impact that one person can have on adolescents it does leave the reader with a positive feeling and hope that there are more people who are able to work with these adolescents (and others) on this level.   <br />	2005-01-30
US	49651539	R2JIYUK7MFLN6T	0060958316	956707371	Hawk: Occupation: Skateboarder	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Hawk	Tony Hawk has been one of the most influential and popular professional skateboarders in the history of skateboarding.  He turned pro at an early age and has been changing the perception of the sport and has been instrumental in creating the idea of skateboarding that we have today.  His autobiography gives detailed information about his experiences within the industry, his evolution as a skater, and his thoughts and feelings about where skateboarding has been, is now, and should be in the future.  It also tells you about his personal experiences along the way, some of which people who became interested in skateboarding after the X Games premiered might not know.  I highly suggest that anyone interested in Hawk's life and experiences and the history of skateboarding read this book, if only to get another perspective on the sport from the one that they currently hold.	2005-01-24
US	49651539	R3CWOHA97J38P3	0802139450	267030618	The Answer Is Never: A Skateboarder's History of the World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Describing the color red	Growing up in the 80s I was surrounded by skateboarding, whether it be in the form of my Mom's friend's daughter showing me how to (attempt to) ride down the street at age 10, the kids skating in the \\"hip town\\" of Hyannis, MA (which was a \\"city\\" to someone from The Cape), watching my neighbors skate and build their own ramps, watching the early skate videos, or ogling through Transworld Skate or Thrasher and wishing I'd had enough coordination to actually be able to learn what I was seeing.  I found this book at the public library and thought it might be an interesting read, but I had no idea what I was in for.  Granted, Weyland's writing can be very subjective and he tends to \\"go off\\" about what skating has become (as many people who have been skating their entire life can), but what he wrote isn't just his complaints about skating and the industry.  There's a lot of information about the history of skating (which a lot of people who claim to skate might not have any ideas about), and also stories about what skating was like before The Circus of what is now began.  What he's written gives the person who doesn't understand skating the ability to have some inkling of what it's like, and to understand that \\"skating\\" isn't just what they see, but it's a culture, a lifestyle, a thought pattern, a philosophical journey, and can even be a family.  One truly interesting part of the book (for me, being a 28 year-old college professor) is Weyland's comments and thoughts about going from being \\"in the know\\" to being considered \\"old.\\"  I would definitely suggest this book to anyone who is interested in learning more about the history of the sport and the genesis of what they see before them today.	2005-01-13
US	49651539	R2VT92NYDXU66J	0375706852	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	4	6	13	N	N	Art and Murder	This book was chosen for book group, but unfortunately we were never able to meet to discuss it.  I brought the book with me on the drive from MA to TX and had started reading it even before the trip, but it took me some time.  I wondered initially if the reason why it took me so long was that it was translated from Turkish (and we all know that sometimes translations can be more difficult to read than a novel that is read in its first language).  I forced myself to read at least one chapter per night, and when I told my best friend that I was having trouble she told me, \\"It's not you, it's just slow.\\"  When I repeated my worries she reiterated, \\"No, it's JUST SLOW.\\"  So I set off on a mission to \\"finish\\" this slow book.  I definitely agree with her that the start of the book meanders and is slow to pick up in pace.  Each chapter is written by a different person (or object or animal), so you get very different perspectives of the story from every which way.  The strange thing is that each new person in the story knows that you're reading the story and that you thus already know X, Y, and Z.  But once you get into the actual story it's very rich and interesting.  The story describes lost love, art, Islam, religion, duty, and drawing (among other things), but is also a mystery story (the \\"who done it\\" of 16th century Islamic art if you will).  Once I got into the story (about halfway through the book) I truly did want to know what happened to the characters and how the story would turn out, so I'm glad that I didn't put the book away when I was originally feeling frustrated.	2005-01-11
US	49651539	R1P9UXSRW8P2D9	0767902521	157497316	A Walk in the Woods: Rediscovering America on the Appalachian Trail (Official Guides to the Appalachian Trail)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	History, The Trail, and Entertainment	My friend Chris read this, and then passed it on to me, stating, \\"We need to do this.\\"  I will now pass it on to my friend Alana, saying, \\"Wouldn't it be cool if we could go on some day hikes on the AT?  I don't think I could make the whole thing.\\"  The best thing about this book is that while you're reading it you feel as if you're right there, walking the Appalachian Trail with Bryson.  He describes, in vivid detail, the people he meets on and off the trail, the conditions of the trail, and his experiences, to the point where when I do some day hikes on the AT I just may recognize something he's talked about.  Another great attribute of this book is that this is not solely the story of Bryson and his friend Katz hiking the AT; Bryson also describes the history of the trail, the environmental concerns surrounding the trail, and so much other information about the trail and the people who have been affected by it.  Bryson's wit and sarcasm make even the driest history of the trail interesting, and reading the book definitely makes the reader want to get up and hike the trail, or at least part of it.	2004-10-17
US	49651539	R1OBRSUYHCQDTK	0375706410	663303744	Waiting: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	The Grass is Greener...	This well-written novel, which takes place in 1960s and 1970s China, tells the story of Lin Kong, a doctor, Shuyu, his wife, and Manna Wu, a nurse who Kong has feelings for.  This story, told over many years time, is interesting but depressing at the same time.  Lin believes that he is not happy in his marriage to Shuyu and divorces her in order to marry Manna.  Once he marries Manna he believes that he will be happy but finds he is not.  Much of the story revolves around his attempting to divorce Shuyu and the problems that he and Manna encounter, but the larger idea that can be taken from this is that there is not one thing in the world that can make you a happier person.  The grass will always be greener somewhere else.	2004-10-10
US	49651539	R27BX58RB2JGFS	0618485228	25220636	The Namesake: A Novel	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Highly Enjoyable	What happens when a couple from India moves to the US and starts a family of their own?  Acculturation in its many different forms is highlighted in this highly readable \\"snapshot\\" of Indian-American culture.  The story follows a couple from their arranged marriage to the US where they have children and form their own family.  The children acculturate much faster than the parents (one even changing his name) and the story follows their lives as well.  Lahiri is an amazing writer who can make a long book seem like an enjoyable film.	2004-10-10
US	49651539	R1VB51FCJBAOCX	0060505273	18957388	The Sewing Circles of Herat: A Personal Voyage Through Afghanistan	Books	2	7	16	N	N	History and Politics	I picked this up a few months ago at Borers because the topic seemed interesting and the cover was nice (it's usually how I get sucked in).  I read a few pages and it seemed ok, so I got it.  Six months later we used it for world literature book group, and when we met to discus the book I felt the need to apologize.  Although there were many good points about the book, there were more negative points.  The first problem I noticed was that Lamb discusses \\"characters\\" from the governments of Afghanistan and Pakistan as if we know them, and will discuss someone on page 5 and again on page 325 and assume you remember (after 320 pages of other new people).  Second, Lamb's writing style is verbose and the editing wasn't done very well (should I be finding run-on sentences in a book?).  She is the type of writer who will give you a lot and not give you the chance to digest what you read before writing another heady topic.  Although there are negative aspects of the book there are also very interesting and positive aspects such as the discussion of Afghan culture, the thoughts of people being governed by the Taliban, and other things that we can usually only learn from an in-depth discussion with someone from another culture.  In all, I would suggest this book to people who are more interested in history and politics than in social life and culture.	2004-10-10
US	49651539	R2WSGBT7J4I5OF	0553273604	839281185	Of Love and Shadows	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Overall Pretty Good	Somewhere, in a fake Latin American country, Irene and Francisco meet and fall in love in the midst of a military dictatorship.  They discover murderous plots surrounding numerous characters that at first seem inconsequential but become very important.  Unfortunately at times the plot is slow moving and uninteresting, but the overall take on the book is pretty good.  I wouldn't read another Allende book for pleasure though.	2004-10-10
US	49651539	R2ID182PKG8RF1	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Culture and Acculturation	This book, winner of the Pulitzer Prize, is an amazing collection of stories about Indian culture and acculturation in America.  Each story puts the reader into a different world that allows them to see American and Indian culture through the eyes of each narrator.  I will look forward to Lahiri's next novel or collection with anticipation.	2004-10-10
US	49651539	R1BIDF16CAOEM6	038549081X	709722953	The Handmaid's Tale	Books	5	6	8	N	N	A Nice Place to Visit, But I Wouldn't Want to Live There...	I think I would describe this as \\"a book with attitude.\\"  We read this for a world literature book group, and this was the first book we read in group that made me laugh not because of comedy, but because of sarcasm and irony.  The story is very interesting (although a bit confusing at first - my suggestion is to read the Historical Note at the end first) and is almost a social commentary on what may happen to civilization if things progress the way they have been.  In this society many people are unable to have children, but if you have enough wealth and status you can hire a handmaid to live with you and bear a child.  But how do the Handmaids feel about this?  What of their previous lives where they were parents and important themselves, rather than simply child-bearing slaves?  How does a society keep these women (and others) \\"in check?\\"  Read and find out.  I highly suggest this book to everyone who likes to read fiction because it's not solely about one thing (and thus will not only appeal to one audience).	2004-10-09
US	49651539	RS406CTRPFZ18	0679781587	823326041	Memoirs of a Geisha: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	"Like Watery Ink On Paper"	Novels about Japanese culture usually interest me, but this one was by far the most interesting and entertaining that I have read.  Golden tells the story of a geisha, Sayuri, who sits and tells her life's story to a professor of Japanese history at NYU.  Sayuri begins her life as Chiyo, a peasant girl who lives in a fishing village.  She is sold into \\"slavery,\\" becomes an apprentice, and finally a geisha.  Her story tells of the history of geisha in Japan, but also about the politics, rites of passage, and experiences that she had while entertaining businessmen before and after World War II.  The story is very well written, and personally made me much more interested in learning about geisha and the experiences within that culture.	2004-08-30
US	49651539	RG0QDGHPM552H	0812967089	960148459	Electroboy: A Memoir of Mania	Books	5	19	23	N	N	Manic Explosion	Sometimes, being a therapist, you forget what real true mania looks like because you don't get to see it too often.  Granted, you see some hypomania, but you don't see the graphicness of true mania: $20,000 Barney's shopping sprees, prostitution, 3 a.m. random travel to wherever, or lying, cheating, and stealing without fear of getting caught.  Reading this book was like watching a horrible TV special on fast-forward (horrible because it made you feel uncomfortable for Behrman and also for the people he knew, not because it was written poorly).  I read paragraphs out loud to other therapists and they told me to stop because they couldn't follow what he was talking about.  I sat and shook my head, thinking, \\"You did WHAT?\\"  I definitely suggest this book to anyone who is interested in knowing what a full-blown manic episode looks like and all the possible ways that the psychiatric community can deal with it	2004-08-02
US	49651539	R1692GVIWKU9RD	0743418174	780559593	Good in Bed	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Love Yourself, The Rest Will Follow	It's been called \\"a delight,\\" \\"warmhearted,\\" and \\"oddball.\\"  This being the author's first novel I didn't have high expectations.  But I was highly entertained.  I laughed, I cried, I went, \\"Yeah, right.\\"  Weiner combines sarcasm, culture (and cultural icons), psychology, and a bit of sappiness to describe the life of Cannie, an overweight reporter who comes to grips with her sometimes soap-opera late twenties.  We see her go from medium ok to very high and happy to a major depression and back to the middle.  Weiner has an entertaining (though often verbose) style which I enjoyed reading but will admit to skimming at times.	2004-07-27
US	49651539	R2KZZP73YKMQTX	0684867400	365104016	Fast Girls: Teenage Tribes and the Myth of the Slut	Books	3	5	7	N	N	Interview and Ponder	Recently I feel as if there have been a lot of \\"interview and ponder\\" books out there where an author gets an idea, interviews a bunch of people, and writes about the interviewees' and the author's thoughts on the matter.  White does this while discussing \\"high school sluts\\" but goes one step further by using history, entertainment media, mythology, and social psychology to discuss the myth or archetype of the slut story.  Through her interviews White found that almost every high school had/has a recognized slut, and that that girl is ostracized by both male and female students.  She also learned, through interviews with \\"identified sluts\\" that there are certain things most of these girls have in common: \\"early puberty, early childhood sexual abuse, a tendency toward extroversion, (and) a rumor that will not die about doing the entire football team\\" (171).  White also found that most of the \\"identified sluts\\" were White girls from suburban areas.  Although the book is well written, I feel as if it's too short and incomplete.  When writing a book like this I feel like an author should bring us through a while cycle of genesis of the problem, discussion of the current problem as it is, and finally how we can change it.  I feel as if White's book is lacking slightly in the last area, but at the same time I'm well aware of the question, \\"But how do you change an archetype that's pervaded our whole culture?\\"	2004-07-24
US	49651539	R3V6KDJMO1YYGA	0452284449	667500496	The Virgin Blue: A Novel	Books	5	8	10	N	N	A Virgin Novel	Having never read Chevalier's work I was very pleased with this novel, which is her first.  The interesting thing to me was that the story took place at two different times in history but in the same geographic area.  The first chapter introduces us to Isabelle, a girl who lives in France in the 1600s during a religious upheaval.  Isabelle is seen as odd by her town because of her red hair, which was uncommon at the time.  In chapter two we meet Ella, an American who has moved to France with her husband.  Over the course of the novel Ella searches out her family history and finds that her family originated near where she now lives.  The story is historical fiction while also discussing changes in relationships, personal revelations, and major life changes for many of the characters.  I especially found the story changes by chapter interesting, and the way that Chevalier integrates the two main characters' stories toward the end.  I highly recommend this book to anyone who is interested in historical fiction and world literature.  I would suggest that someone who does not know European religious history well read the Historical Note at the end before beginning the story though.	2004-07-20
US	49651539	R12GHQ0IH4GCRH	0812971043	518214282	The Dante Club: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Everything's true but the murders?	I picked up this book at the bookstore simply because the name and the cover looked interesting.  Reading the back made me decide to buy it.  I'm a big fan of historical fiction that works in literary figures (for example, the movie version of the graphic novel \\"League of Extraordinary Gentlemen\\"), and the synopsis of the book on the back talked about how \\"America's first Dante scholars - Henry Wadsworth Longfellow, Oliver Wendell Holmes, James Russell Lowell, and J.T. Fields\\" formed The Dante Club where they worked together to translate Dante's Inferno into English and ended up working together trying to solve a murder (or three).  Although reading parts of the book were tough because I haven't read any Dante (and I do want to now), I really enjoyed it and highly suggest it to anyone who likes to read (and likes to read about the authors they've read about).  Pearl's discussions of the poets and their personalities was highly entertaining, and I would bet that they were pretty historically accurate, based on the discussion of the research that he did for the book.  What's interesting about this book, to me, is that Pearl graduated Harvard in 1997, won the Dante Prize from the Dante Society of America in 1998, and graduated Yale Law in 2000.  Really now, what do you do after that?	2004-07-11
US	49651539	R16TZKRFF25TIQ	0062505432	111602836	Transformation: Understanding the Three Levels of Masculine Consciousness	Books	4	32	33	N	N	Not One Of His Best	Johnson is one of my favorite authors.  He's a Jungian analyst who writes about myths and how they can tell us a lot about our life experiences and why we do what we do and why things happen to us.  In this (short) book (105 written pages) he writes about the three levels of consciousness of men and gives a literary example of each.  Don Quixote is Two-Dimensional Man (or simple man), Hamlet is Three-Dimensional Man (or complex man), and Faust is Four-Dimensional Man (or enlightened man).  Johnson describes how men go through these stages, but sometimes become stuck at complex man because they have become so educated that they cannot give up their knowledge and return to the simplicity that can be seen in enlightened man.  Although there are some interesting statements made in this text, there isn't much new and different here from Johnson's other work, and what is new and different is not &quot;fleshed out&quot; to give the reader a feeling of fully understanding what is being discussed.  Although I'll continue to read Johnson, this is not one of his best works.	2004-07-05
US	49651539	R2A38AZYD14YR0	1573222690	764017804	What Makes a Man: 22 Writers Imagine the Future	Books	4	7	7	N	N	What's Appropriate?	This book caught my eye at the bookstore because of its title, and even though it was only available in hardcover I decided I had to have it.  I read the initial chapter a few times before actually reading the book fully, and I thought I had an idea of what it would be all about.  Fortunately, I was wrong.  Parts of this book (chapters by certain authors) are amazing.  Others are reiterations of information I had learned elsewhere, reiterations that reminded me of the \\"standing on your soapbox\\" image.  The chapters that really interested me were the one by Meri Nana-Ama Danquah where she discusses the stereotypical perceptions of \\"masculinity\\" and \\"femininity,\\" the chapter by Michael Moore where he candidly discusses gender roles (and how to escape a room if your wife has set your bed on fire), the chapter by Ruth Bettelheim about the affects of divorce on male children (and how parents should work with their children post-divorce), and Martha Southgate's story of \\"her girlish boy.\\"  Above all what I took from this book was a sense of awe; not only do we not understand that society is creating unhappiness (in both women and men), but we also are buying into it.  We keep pushing ourselves to become what it is that someone, somewhere else than where we are, is telling us is \\"good\\" and appropriate for our genders.  This motion is creating depression, anger, aggression, and general malaise in both women and men.  Hopefully more people will read this book, or more books like it, and begin to have an understanding of what is happening, if not do something about it.	2004-06-29
US	49651539	R2CKDN171Y5ZYC	0440224675	313045692	Hannibal	Books	2	0	1	N	N	Nothing More Disappointing	When I began reading this book I had extremely high hopes: I hoped to be entertained, I hoped that I would finish the book in one sitting as I had Silence of the Lambs and Red Dragon, and I hoped to learn more about the  fates of Hannibal and Clarice.  Having studied death scene investigation  and serial killers myself, and being interested in learning more about the  FBI, I have always loved his books.  Unfortunately, I have to agree with  many other people who have written scathing reviews of Harris' newest book.  I was impressed with the European flair of this new book, but I was less  than impressed with the use of Italian at key points. Unfortuantely some of  us took French in college, I guess.  His use of history as a backdrop for  some of the story was interesting, but I don't think it's what most of us  expected.  I think we were expecting another &quot;true crime&quot; story,  and that's why we bought the book.  What we got was more of a &quot;murder  mystery&quot; type of story.  We also got a story that was seemingly  tailored for the forthcoming movie, and an ending that will make all of the  sappy movie goers happy.  But I personally threw the book across the room  when I finished, and vowed never to buy one of his books again (or go see  the movie).	2000-07-04
US	49651539	R32QYJLCXAM9BA	0679749829	708192299	Violent Act	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Alec Wilkinson's A Violent Act	This true account of the spree murders perpetrated by Mike Wayne Jackson in Indianapolis in 1986 gives the reader more than just a typical &quot;true crime&quot; story.  It seems as if Wilkinson divided the telling  of this tragedy into three parts: the murders, the search for Jackson, and  the day- to-day stories of the victims following the murders.  The stories  of each person involved in the crime (including Jackson's mother, the first  victim's widow, etc.) are each written extremely well, and each helps us to  understand the crime better, as all of the people that were involved in  this crime are trying to do.	2000-06-25
US	49651539	RUJKAMPKX4QI2	0306459809	325568552	Profiles In Murder	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Russell Vorpagel's Profiles In Murder	In this engrossing book Russell Vorpagel instructs a class in death investigation.  He uses some known (and some no-so-known) cases to teach his class (and the reader) about some of the intricacies of death  investigation, which include critical thinking in solving cases in  profiling. One of the major strengths of this book is Vorpagel's use of a  myriad of cases to demonstrate his points.  His instruction to his class  followed by a case study demonstrates his points in full detail.  This book  is &quot;must read&quot; for anyone  interested in death investigation and  profiling.	2000-06-25
