US	49652862	R15HQZGW4Y5O5F	0815605048	740863823	Television's Second Golden Age: From Hill Street Blues to ER (Television and Popular Culture)	Books	3	4	6	N	N	reflections on quality TV from the 1980's	I purchased this book primarily for it's advertised chapter on thirtysomething, since analysis of one of my favourite TV shows is rare. That the coverage here is disappointing is due probably more with my expectation, since the book covers a collection of shows that also include Hill Street Blues, St. Elsewhere, Twin Peaks, China Beach, Cagney and Lacey, Picket Fences, Moonlighting, Northern Exposure, and L.A.Law, none of which capture my imagination as much as thirtysomething, though I enjoyed reading about the evolution of Moonlighting. However, author Robert J Thompson does contextualise each series, and provides a fascinating epilogue in an exploration of the first &quot;golden age of television&quot;.  Thompson's thirtysomething chapter running at 8 pages, includes an acknowledgement of the show's written excellence much awarded and celebrated by a published anthology of scripts, the advertising controversies about gay issues, the show's innovative treatment of subject in spite of the cliched claim that &quot;it's a show about nothing&quot; (prefiguring the Seinfeld hook), a quote from a script ie Miles Dentrell about the nature of advertising, the series' cancellation and last-minute talks of making a fifth and final series. If Thompson relies a lot of quotes from critics and detractors of the show eg Jay Leno on the death of one of the principal characters &quot;One down, six to go&quot;, his notes lead me to the two issues of Playboy magazine with relevant articles, The Thirtysomething Journal interview and The Creators and Cast of Thirtysomething.	2001-09-12
US	49652862	R2Y3DBP8ORDP0M	0893816949	479239124	Diane Arbus: Monograph (Aperture Monograph)	Books	5	71	74	N	N	the normalcy in life's freaks, the freakishness in normalcy	This collection of 81 black and white photographs by Diane Arbus was edited and designed by her daughter, Doon and friend Marvin Israel and published in 1972 after her suicide the previous year. The photographs are preceeded by text of tape recordings of classes that the photographer gave the year she died, as well as excerpts from interviews and some of her own writings on photography. The text illuminates Arbus' concerns about her art and her subjects. Although she did do studies of objects, such as Disneyland, a hotel lobby, and a Xmas tree, Arbus was more interested in people, in particular the kind of people she had never seen before. Coming from a wealthy Park Avenue background, existing in an unreal environment, cocooned from adversity, Arbus felt her immunity painful, which explains her attraction to marginalised groups. One can compare Arbus' studies to those of Robert Mapplethorpe. Mapplethorpe moved from harsh presentations of marginalised gay men's sexuality to soft focus celebrity portraiture. Arbus moved in the opposite direction, from glamour fashion photography with her then husband Alan, to her reality marginalised portraiture. Arbus' experience with fashion provides her composition and while her camera can scrutinise, her photos never patronise. Perhaps this is due to the complicitity apparent from the subjects. These people want to be photographed, and Arbus presents them with dignity. But what makes them compelling is the what Arbus described as the gap between intention and effect, what you want people to know about you and what you can't help people knowing about you. Sometimes, often the thing we see is sadness, but we can't laugh at these people because they are so unguarded. Arbus' photos aren't posed. She tells us how she arranged her view rather than arranging her subject, so that they are planned observations. The photographs here taken between 1962 and 1970 cover the range of her interest in marginalised subjects including the freaks sheclassified as &quot;aristocrats&quot; who were born with their trauma so had passed their test in life, and made her feel a mix of shame and awe. Midgets, dwarfs, nudists, transvestites, identical twins and triplets, a giant with his parents, musclemen, carnival performers, a woman with her baby monkey, and the untitled retards. This is the world Arbus entered into. It's hard not to consider her suicide as being related to the subjects of her work. Arbus was interested in exposing the flaw, and her camera gave her licence to privacy, however the cold scrutiny of her camera may have been too much when it was focused upon herself. The self portraits I have seen show her looking uncomfortable, the photographer clearly lacking the skills she would apply to her own subjects. There is a rumour that Arbus set up a camera to photograph her own death, mentioned in the Patricia Bosworth biography, though no evidence was found when her body was discovered. Like the great ones, Arbus received acclaim posthumously, and this book is an ode to her genius.	2001-07-08
US	49652862	RDRD4E6C4J89L	0718122828	36210574	My Hollywood	Books	3	3	3	N	N	a lamentable celebration of gossip	As the last of the &quot;Unholy Trio&quot; of gossip columnists in the Golden and not so Golden Age of Hollywood, following Louella Parsons and Hedda Hopper, Graham presents herself as the most humane. Unfortunately this also makes her writing the least interesting. Graham tells that unlike her rivals, she was not bound by any studio allegiance, though still needed the co-operation of stuidio heads and press agents for her stories, since the party scene gave her nothing, presumably because Parsons and Hopper were ahead of her. The fact that she was not a local would have also had an impact, her being British, though her relationship with writer F Scott Fitzgerald (which she constantly mentions) provided her with a kind of celebrity and a subsequent degree of privileged access. When she decides not to reveal her name and family connection to Katharine Hepburn, it ironically loses her the interview, and the mention in her column of her seeing director King Vidor makes him decide against an engagement. Perhaps because her most of her items read as second hand, reinforced by her pedestrian style, their scandal quotant is poor. Some things that caught my interest - that John Gilbert set out to kill Garbo after she did not appear for their wedding, and was only stopped for drunken driving; that Darryl Zanuck didn't sleep with Marilyn Monroe because she didn't appeal to him; that Marilyn and Joe Di Maggio were incompatible because Joe was neat and Marilyn untidy; that Elizabeth Taylor's affair with Richard Burton began because she wanted to make director Joe Mankiewicz jealous - Mankiewicz later joked that the real story was that he was in love with Burton, and Liz was a beard; and that Cary Grant had rehearesed for 3 weeks for the George Cukor A Star is Born before backing out, though whether his withdrawal was due to his problem with his part or his intolerance of Judy Garland's behaviour remains ambiguous. Graham occasionally presents funny tales. Alice Faye called herstudio Twentieth Peniteniary Fox; and when asked why she divorced Ronald Reagan, Jane Wyman replied &quot;He talked too much&quot;. She also produces one witticism - &quot;Patricia Neal does TV commercials for pain killing tablets, which however does not kill the pain of having to divorce Roald Dahl&quot;.	2001-05-11
US	49652862	RYGCUJJKGGUWN	0385240716	464753955	My Husband Rock Hudson	Books	3	27	38	N	N	Rock with his head under the covers	Phyllis Gates tells that a week before Rock Hudson proposed to her, he and his agent Henry Wilson had gone to Hollywood lawyer Jerry Giesler to find a way to stop Confidential magazine publishing the story of a gang bang at Wilson's house. She was informed of this by Giesler when finalising her divorce from Hudson, after tiring of his single minded focus on his career which included abandoning her when she was ill, his relationship with Wilson, Hudson slapping her when she referred to a friend of his as a &quot;fruitcake&quot;, and his refusal to consult her psychiatrist. It was only after her separation that she became aware of the reality of Hudson's secret lifestyle, although hindsight provided clues - Hudson's friendship with several handsome actors and his association with Wilson, himself gay and an agent who specialised in handsome young and often gay men. Hudson's closet sexual behaviour being unknown to Gates means that it occupies little space - rather it is used as the denouement - and we are left with the less interesting stories of Hudson's idiosyncracies, once he stops having her accompany him to the filming locations. It's hard to assess the book in terms of it as a piece of writing because of the essential frustration of the setup, but the best part is Gates' coverage of the period leading up to her 3 year marriage, particularly relating to the set of Giant, because it is relatively optimistic. It also demonstrates the opportunities of chance, where the day she moved in with Rock was the day James Dean was killed, and how she was at Elizabeth Taylor's the night Montgomery Clift crashed his car. Her telling of Rock's anger at her accompaning Taylor to the hospital with Clift is mentioned to show his unreasonable and controlling tendencies. If one believes that Hudson's greatest acting was in keeping his dalliances hidden from Gates, his courting reveals him as charming, and perhaps it is his youth that explains his ability to make love to her, even ifhe had been with a man earlier. Perhaps embittered after the later revelations, Gates describes Hudson as weak and manipulative, using people to fulfill his own ambitions and eventually becoming totally corrupted and empty of feeling. However this accusation, with it's covert justification for his death from AIDS, is perhaps crueler than anything she tells us Hudson had done to her. What forced the end of the relationship was her deliberate strategy to try to distance Hudson from Wilson. Hudson would succeed in this task by himself later on but at the time Gates' attempt was a serious underestimation of Hudson's loyalty and the influence Wilson held over him. Gates says that Hudson only kept Wilson on to protect himself from blackmail. More than once Gates is informed of how hard it is for couples to stay together in the ego-based world of actors and Hollywood. Hudson seemed to appreciate her more as an industry companion than as a wife, and Gates repays him by saying he had the emotional development of a 10 year old, and by ridiculing him with the information that he turned down the Chalton Heston part in Ben Hur because the script was too big for him to read. Although Gates clearly means to present herself as a victim, one retains more sympathy for Hudson. She introduces herself as a religious farmgirl from Minnesota with a large family, an innocent caught up in the big bad world of showbusiness, and she comes across as pious and morally superior. Although we don't learn how she catches the hepatitis that leaves her bedridden for months, the suggestion that Rock passed it onto her from his infidelities, so much the worse in her mind because they were with men, is undermined by her catty aside about his obsession with bodily cleanliness. The observation is also tired pop psychology about trying to wash away one's sins. The book's cover picture is metaphorically creepy - they embrace, neither looking at each other, wearing matching red sweaters, Gates' lipstick likeblood and Hudson's lips pale. He is taller but rests his forehead on hers, as if she is his mother. Her arms hold him but we cannot see where his are.	2001-05-02
US	49652862	R2ZF177DO2D9OF	0312033613	590063365	Hollywood's Golden Year, 1939: A Fiftieth Anniversary Celebration	Books	4	5	5	N	N	before war clouds cast a shadow	1939 is hailed as one of the greatest years in the golden years of Hollywood, with the studios at the height of their power and productivity, and before the United States became involved in WW2. Sennett's book pays homage to what he considers 17 seminal titles, as well as adding notes on other notable films released that year. The obvious ones are here like Gone with the Wind and The Wizard of Oz, but there are also a few surprises, and Sennett's anaylsis thankfully isn't all praise. He is prepared to note the perceived weaknesses in the films. His coverage begins with an overview of the attraction of the title, whether it be the director, the star or the source material, provides some preproduction notes, then a lengthly plot description, and finally post-production box office results. Sennett's writing is accessible, though he presumes no knowledge of these films and therefore a lot of what he details is well-known to film students and movie buffs. Considering that Gone with the Wind has been written about exhaustively, he sometimes sets himself an impossible goal, however occasionally he comes up with something new and interesting. Midnight featured the casting problems of Mary Astor's advancing and evident pregnancy, John Barrymore's alcoholic forgettfulness which required prompt cards, and Claudette Colbert's infamous demand to be photographed only by her left side. There was also antipathy between the flamboyantly gay director Mitchell Leisen and screenwriter Billy Wilder. Wilder complained that Leisen spent more time on worrying about the pleat on a skirt than the script, and Leisen said Wilder was so arrogant that he screamed if one line of his dialogue was altered. Sennett tells us that at one time William Wyler wanted to do Wuthering Heights with Bette Davis, but the end of their affair also ended that. It also made Davis despondent enough to play the lead in Dark Victory perfectly, though she was so despondent that she had to be talked out of withdrawingfrom the film. Wyler also nixed Laurence Olivier's request for Vivien Leigh to play Cathy, which freed her to do Gone with the Wind. Wyler was known to demand as many as 60 takes of a given scene, and the animal trainer who provided ducks and geese for the barnyard scenes cut their vocal chords to keep them from honking noisily during filming. One feels Garbo was right to turn down Dark Victory, if with the prospect of George Cukor directing her in it, and Bette Davis is said to have practiced the simulation of loss of sight by driving at night. The story of Rita Hayworth visiting a restaurant where Howard Hawks and Harry Cohn were dining to make an impression for Only Angels Have Wings, seems silly since she was already under contract to Cohn. Pre-star Humphrey Bogart was fired from The Old Maid and replaced by George Brent, and Davis is quoted saying &quot;Miriam Hopkins is a perfectly charming woman socially. Working with her is another story&quot;. The firing of George Cukor from Gone with the Wind allowed for Ernst Lubitsch to be transfered from The Women to Ninotchka, and Cukor to replace him. And Melvyn Douglas tells that even he didn't know whether it was Garbo's laugh that was dubbed for her in the restaurant scene, since she was unable to laugh in the take Lubitsch accepted in Ninotchka.	2001-04-20
US	49652862	R1OJD7OYJ89XVF	1881649903	475140952	Crowning Glory: Reflections of Hollywood's Favorite Confidant	Books	5	18	20	N	N	under the blowdryer	While being well written, Sydney Guilaroff's autobiography reveals him either as someone with perfect timing or one who brings bad luck to others. He was with Joan Crawford at her sickbed when she won her Oscar for Mildred Pierce, he spoke with Marilyn Monroe the night she died and recommended she take a Nembutal!, he ran into Lana Turner after she had purchased the knife that would kill Johnny Stompanato, he was with Elizabeth Taylor for her emergency tracheotomy, and he spoke with Judy Garland and Princess Grace of Monaco before they died. This kind of opportunism existed even before he became the head of MGM's hairdressing and makeup department from 1934, when as a novice he styled Louise Brooks' hair into her signature bob, and then at Saks New York was visited by Claudette Colbert and Joan Crawford. It was Crawford who helped bring him to Hollywood, since she insisted on visiting him for each film and Mayer resented her absence, though he also considered the coiffures worn by his female stars to be lacklustre. However Sydney had differences with Mayer, refusing to be signed to a contract and he quit after one argument, only to be brought back with the promise that he would have no dealings with the studio boss. Guilaroff's insider view of MGM makes him an informed source on Crawford leaving, where he says she left volantarily, and Garbo effectively fired after the failure of Two-Faced Woman. He perpetutates the myth that Judy Garland's recordings for Annie Get Your Gun were mediocre (proven to be wrong by their modern day commercial release) and provides the disparate and shocking tale of her drug-induced incapability even during her Summer Stock Get Happy return to work after she had lost the weight she had carried during production. The story of Judy performing the number perfectly in one take as soon as the music started is either evidence of her impulse to entertain or proof of Guilaroff's fabrication. Garland's drug-taking are about the lowest he is willing to stoop, though Irene Dunne's deliberate request for retests so that she could earn more money is catty. We learn Garbo was an insomniac, Cary Grant a depressive, though it's a surprise that he doesn't rationalise Montgomery Clift's drug-taking during Raintree County as a post-accident necessity considering he picked up on Garland's addiction the first time he met her. Guilaroff isn't shy about his accomplishments and credits himself with colouring Shirley MacLaine, Ann-Marget and Lucille Ball their red hair colours, providing Marlene Dietrich with a non-surgical facelift which used hooks in a wig to stretch her skin taut, and suggesting Garland wear the fedora for Get Happy since she had pulled out all her hair. He also attributes non-hair related suggestions, like the all over the face kissing Garbo gave  Robert Taylor in Camille, directed Marilyn's test for The Asphalt Jungle, recommended Richard Burton for Cleopatra, and defended Lena Horne from the commissary racism. He also, perhaps unwittingly, exposes himself unflatteringly when he tells of his dislike of grey hair, criticising Crawford for it and thereby terminating her communication with him before she died, and spotting Garbo after she too had dismissed him. Guilaroff believes that Monroe's death was suicide and not accidental, her depression not alieviated by her psychiatrist and spurred on by her involvement and rejection by the Kennedys. His personal life remains a mystery, his remarkable adoption of a child while remaining a bachelor and not an admitted homosexual (his experience adoption helped Crawford succeed with hers),  though he does admit to proposing to Garbo and being turned down, and to having long term sexual affairs with her and Ava Gardner.	2001-04-01
US	49652862	RVIQHKK8ZANPR	0877955581	247138594	Baby Doll: An Autobiography	Books	4	26	27	N	N	Baker in the crib	Freudians may explain Baker's attraction to controlling men by the absence of fatherly affection in her life, since he is noticeably missing from her autobiography. However no matter how difficult her relationships with these men were, she admits to having a sensitive disposition which eventually crumbles into 2 breakdowns and 3 year depression, which kept her unemployed. Baker presents her major breakdown in the late 1960's with inner dialogue which is painful to read, although this style is used amusingly in her coverage of the making of the film Harlow. Perhaps Baker's reasoning can be faulted since her inner logic reveals the way up and out of her depression, whereas other sufferers of depression are often trapped within their repetitive circlic thoughts. From a showbiz autobiography view, Baker's book is entertainly written, with anecdotes from her days in vaudeville, the Actors Studio, Hollywood, and her 8 year stay in Europe, where she would meet her current (at the time of writing) husband, and finally choose a non-dominating partner. She has tales of Rod Steiger, Eva Marie Saint, Paul Newman, Steve McQueen, Shelley Winters, Elia Kazan, Ben Gazarra, James Dean, Marilyn Monroe, Elizabeth Taylor, Debbie Reynolds, Robert Mitchum and Jerry Lewis. She considers Dean to be asexual rather than homosexual, based on the non-threatening nature of his friendships with women, and says he spent time with the cowboys only for &quot;research&quot; for his role in Giant. Baker vividly describes the riot at the premiere of Giant, the factions on the set, Dean's cruelty to Natalie Wood and his dislike of Dennis Hopper, which is ironic since Hopper has always claimed to have been close to Dean. Apparently Tennessee Williams first choice for Baby Doll was Monroe but we aren't told why the casting  never eventuated, but Baker's description of Monroe at the Actors Studio - &quot;She let her body language do most of the talking&quot; - is funny and accurate. Baker mentions that in But Not For Me Clark Gable had shared secrets about being in front of the movie camera that no amount at the Actor's Studio could have provided, but doesn't disclose those secrets. She also lists titles that her contracts with first Warner Bros and later Paramount made her was unable to play - The 3 Faces of Eve, The Brothers Karamazov, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and a TV special dancing with Gene Kelly. When Monroe is fired from Fox, Baker says that she saw her sitting every night at La Scala's looking unkempt and despondent, highlighting the falseness of Monroe's claim that Fox wasn't &quot;where she lived&quot;. Baker had suggested Monroe go to Europe but Marilyn said she couldn't because she was alone. Baker too would be fired from her studio, be despondent, but eventually go to Europe, alone, but perhaps because Baker had children to send over to be with her, she survived.But Not For Me Clark Gable had shared secrets about being in front of the movie camera that no amount at the Actor's Studio could have provided, but doesn't disclose those secrets. She also lists titles that her contracts with first Warner Bros and later Paramount made her was unable to play - The 3 Faces of Eve, The Brothers Karamazov, Cat on a Hot Tin Roof, and a TV special dancing with Gene Kelly. When Monroe is fired from Fox, Baker says that she saw her sitting every night at La Scala's looking unkempt and despondent, highlighting the falseness of Monroe's claim that Fox wasn't &quot;where she lived&quot;. Baker had suggested Monroe go to Europe but Marilyn said she couldn't because she was alone. Baker too would be fired from her studio, be despondent, but eventually go to Europe, alone, but perhaps because Baker had children to send over to be with her, she survived.	2001-03-25
US	49652862	R2YJI3MZ1UHOAY	0806518367	519126560	Chick Flicks: A Movie Lover's Guide to the Movies Women Love	Books	4	2	4	N	N	hold the popcorn while I grab a tissue	New York Daily News film critic Jami Bernard says there are Guy Movies and there are Chick Flicks. Guy Movies are those with little dialogue and lots of action - punching, explosions, aliens, car chases or sex. Chick Flicks tend to have more dialogue and less action. Bernard claims women prefer romances, tearjerkers, relationship movies - female stars, familial situations, cuteguys, emotional catharsis. The 75 films Bernard catalogues here provide a range of genres, wide enough to override the stereotypical view that the label Chick implies. The usual match for Guy is Gal so Bernard's choice of the more sexist Chick can either be seen as deconstructive or an acceptance of semantic subjugation. (That &quot;chick&quot; is derived from Chicken, the male hen is evidence of the twisted logic of slang. And Gal has a subtle gay association). Bernard's chapters make genre choices - Tearjerkers, Emotional Rescue, Bad Girls, Hunks, Role Models, Impossible Love, Funny Girls, Schoolgirl Crushes, Catfights, Daddy Dearest, Hurts So Good, Lesbian Inclinations, Female Bonding, The Maternal Instinct, and Perfect Love - and while some of the choices of films are obvious and rather hackneyed, others are surprising. We get Casablanca, Gone With The Wind and Sabrina, but also A Tree Grows in Brooklyn, Gaslight, The Bad Seed, and To Sir With Love. The anaylsis of each film tends to concentragte more on plot rather than assess performance or any technical ability, but occasionally Bernard throws in some behind the scenes information. When someone includes The Bridges of Madison Country and fails to comment on how excruciatingly dull it is, you can pick the agenda. In Bernard's pages on Gilda she points out the homosexual subtext, resulting in Glenn Ford's righteous humiliation of the beautiful Rita Hayworth, but then tells of Hayworth's real life transformation from Margarita Cansino which required electrolysis to raise her &quot;feral&quot; hairline.And titles like The Women, All About Eve, American Gigolo, Johnny Guitar, Now Voyager, and even Picnic have such a strong appeal to male gay audiences that it's odd that Bernard fails to comment on it, though the distinction between a straight female and a gay male sensibility opens up a Pandora's Box of politics, which perhaps Bernard is wise to avoid. Some choices like 9  weeks show how Bernard is willing to look at the way women can be portayed unattractively, though it may be a stretch to imagine this title being a repeat rental. And since Bernard is a film critic, claiming that having to sit through everything  reinforces her personal preferences and also gives her access to a range of movies, provides us with some enlightened historical and foreign choices. Bernard's writing is very accessible in tone, sometimes a little lowbrow, and her humour of-the not-too-subtle kind, but her book is a pleasant experience and good enough to lead the reader back to the video/dvd shop.	2001-03-16
US	49652862	R2Z5SKIBM8GOQ4	3822800732	782184685	Max Ernst (Basic Art)	Books	4	8	10	N	N	the lesser known Dali	In his text, Ulrich Bischoff proposes that Max Ernst had earned the right to be known as the leading exponant of Surrealist art of the 1940's and 50's, but since Salvador Dali knew how to present himself in society to greater effect, he inherited the title. Whatever one thnks of Dali's skill as a publicist, his work is different to Ernst's in one sense - Ernst's most potent paintings were done before he came to the U.S. It's interesting to theorise that it was because Ernst was harassed by the Nazis when they invaded France where the German Ernst lived, that he created the decalcomonia technique which decorates what I think are his greatest works - Joy of Life, The Robing of the Bride, Marlene, Europe after the Rain, Day and Night, The Eye of Silence and The Temptation of St. Anthony. This technique of applying the paint to the canvas by pressing it against a flat surface, gives the result a mossy, furry or marshy appearance. This coupled with Ernst's penchance for grotesque mythological figures would have aligned him with Jewish and other non-naturalistic artists considered decadent and perverse by the Third Reich's aesthetic. What makes Bischoff's collection of Ernst's paintings interesting is the evolution of Ernst's style, which would lead him to the decalcomania. As early as 1919 in Family Excursion one sees Ernst's sombre air. I also like The Master's Bedroom, It is worth spending a night in of 1920, done in his Dada period, with the symbolism of the animals, as evidence of Ernst's interest in Freud; the grattage works Vision Induced by the Nocturnal Aspect of the Porte St Denis 1927 and The Horde 1927; and the alien-like Human Form 1931. Even his most celebrated (and personally I think overrated) work, the biblical The Entire City 1935/36 is a prelude to the later beauty, wit and eroticism. Ernst's post- decalcomanic work seems to present him as more restful, perhaps not the best state for an artist. The images are pretty but the soul is at peace. Of note isthe 1942 Surrealism and Painting, where he used what Jackson Pollock would later call &quot;dripping&quot;.	2001-02-28
US	49652862	R1Z2HN9K9IOZ0R	0030693624	198623074	Taking It All in	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Kael back from Locustland	This is Pauline Kael's 7th collection of film reviews for The New Yorker magazine covering the period June 1980 to June 1983. I think it's also the only one of her books to feature her picture on the cover  - if we saw her before, she was always on the back. Kael had taken a year off the magazine to work in Hollywood and her essay Why are movies so bad? sums up her expereince. This collection is remarkable for the wealth of good movies she writes about. Her picks include E.T., Tootsie, Dressed to Kill and Blow Out, Atlantic City, My Dinner with Andre, Shoot the Moon, Diva, The Stunt Man, Pennies from Heaven, The Elephant Man, The Devil's Playground, Melvin and Howard, Personal Best, Diner, The Night of the Shooting Stars, Local Hero, Come Back to the 5 &amp; Dime, Jimmy Dean Jimmy Dean, Faye Dunaway in Mommie Dearest, and Fanny and Alexander. As always, Kael is fearless and not afraid to go after industry heavyweights like Scorsese, Woody Allen, and Meryl Streep. Her pans here include The Shining (&quot;Jack Nicholson is so grinningly rabid that he seems to have stumbled in from an old A.I.P. picture), Ordinary People (&quot;It's not likely that Mary Tyler Moore turns into a hot pixie at night: there are military-looking stripes on her bathrobe&quot;), Stardust Memories (&quot;If Woody Allen finds success very upsetting and wishes the public would go away, this picture should help him stop worrying&quot;), Raging Bull, Heaven's Gate (&quot;I thought it was easy to see what to cut, but when I tried to think of what to keep, my mind went blank&quot;), Altered States, Nine to Five, On Golden Pond, Reds, One from the Heart, Meryl Streep in The French Lieutenant's Woman, Still of the Night, Sophie's Choice, Gandhi,  The King of Comedy, and Return of the Jedi. There is a long essay on Abel Gance's Napoleon.  Some quotes. Deathtrap felt like one to me. In The Competition Amy Irving and Richard Dreyfuss have acquired ebough bad acting habits for a different kind of competition. In Bladerunner Rutger Hauer seems a shoo-in for the Klaus Kinski Scenery Chewing Award. Ben Gazarra could be the survivor of an ancient (and untrustworthy) race. When Jack Lemmon puts his finger under his stiff collar and twists his neck - that familiar tic of his which he uses to show that the character he's playing is writhing in discomfort - he puts me in mourning for the lost evening. When homosexuals were despised, there was a compensatory myth that they had better taste than anybody else. Their enthusiasm for Victor/Victoria should help debunk that myth. When Talia Shire is displayed in Rocky III she's an icon, so heavily made up she looks like a wax prop. After a few more of these Rocky movies, will the cheering audience get the same glazed look?	2001-02-09
US	49652862	R2V5JY2B99Z6ZB	0316481637	760815937	Kiss Kiss Bang Bang	Books	5	22	29	N	N	briefest statement imaginable for the basic appeal of movies	This is Pauline Kael's second book of film reviews, covering 1965- 1967, when she was freelancing and yet to be attached to The New Yorker magazine. It also includes notes on 280 movies capsule reviews which predates her later 5001 Notes at the Movies companion. On the title of the book, Kael says she it on an Italian poster and is perhaps the briefest statement imaginable of the basic appeal of movies. &quot;This appeal is  what attracts us, and ultimately what makes us despair when we begin to understand how seldom movies are more than this&quot;. In this volume her raves include a 17 page study of Bonnie and Clyde, Persona, Falstaff, Band of Outsiders, Masculine Feminine, Laurence Olivier as Othello, and Boudou Saved from Drowning though made in France in 1931 was only released in the United States in 1967. Her pans Blow-Up, Madame X, Hawaii, Darling, Ship of Fools, and her infamous review of The Sound of Music which lost her a job. She also includes essays on The Creative Business, Godard and the Movie Brutalists, an exhaustive The Making of The Group covering 33 pages, suggested movies for children, and studies of the careers of Brando, Orson Welles and Stanley Kramer.  A few amusing quotes. After the first few minutes of Grand Prix, my companion said Now you know what it's like to be run over. You don't go to this movie, it comes after you. Pasolini's The Gospel According to st Matthew was so static that I could hardly wait for that loathsome prissy young man to get crucified. In The Bible God couldn't have had much much of a sense of humour if he went to the trouble of  destroying the posing prancing faggots of Sodom. And, the process shots in Fantastic Voyage are so clumsliy mated with the figures that the actors look as if a child has cut them out with blunt scissors.	2001-02-02
US	49652862	R2G98MM4H6T8VY	0312018738	143963198	Perspectives on Pornography: Sexuality in Film and Literature	Books	3	3	4	N	N	post-structuralist theory in the Pleasure Chest	The cover is a grotesque animation. A woman stands naked and exposed. Her mouth is lipsticked, her nipples enlarged, and she wears stilletos. But her face is crudely etched, and she has no hair. Her head is at an angle so that only eye is visible and the lid is a slit. A man twice her size stands looking at her but with his back to us. He is as hidden as the woman is open. He wears a raincoat, his feet tiny under the bulk of his body, a sign of his small endowment. His nose is overdrawn like the woman's lips and her breast closest to him. His mouth is open but thin-lipped, totally without any sensuality. There is something even apelike, primitive in the roughness of the figures of the sketch. The image is humorless and bleak in it's limited view of sexuality.<br />This collection of 11 essays aims to create a dialogue between the sexes, but even the introduction recognises that this is not easy given the inherent historically opposing views men and women have on the topic. Men take a classically objective stance to pornography, distancing themselves from involvement, and satisfied by the fantasy. Women are socially constructed to be appalled by pornography, since it's objectification disempowers them. They see the act of sex as expression of love and when love is not represented, it becomes a surrender, as in the way losing their virginity is an act of subjugation. The &quot;cum shot&quot;, a moment of climactic liberation for the man, is said to be a psychological return to the passive mother of her milk, which is perhaps pushing the metaphor too far. While most of the essays concentrate on film pornography, a few touch on literature. Mike Woolf reveals that the pseudo-liberation of titles by D H Lawrence and Henry Miller, ironically encages their new sexual expression in obsession/compulsive neurosis. Avis Lewallen finds Angela Carter's revisionist fairy tales equally trapped by stereotypes. And Alison Assiter declares, that romantic Mills and Boon fiction is porn for women, with heroines objectified but with an erotic pleasure that compensates for the patriarchal oppression of their real erotic lives. Anthony Crabbe argues that sex films are made to prevent people (read - men) from &quot;enlarging their sexual horizons&quot;. He provides an interesting account of Linda Lovelace, who in her biography admitted that her film career was an extension of her being a prostitute. This may be evidence to support the definition of pornography as the debasement of women, but it denies the notion of pornography as instruction, something which Lovelace's notorious Deep Throat can take credit for. What is interesting is that men are thought to be drawn to sex films as an alternative to actual sex, since they can peak much quicker than women, and a real encounter requires more effort if he aims to satisfy his partner. Maggie Humm questions the limited feminist scope of the male &quot;gaze&quot;, claiming that verbal language is ignored. She makes no distinction between porn and mainstream movies, and cites Klute as an example as directed by a man. The voice of Bree, a prostitute, is used to extend the representation of her sexuality in her scenes with a therapist, in Bree's sessions with her clients, and via a tape recording used by the killer. Humm also cites Penthouse's Forum column which allows for greater explicitness than the poses of the magazine's photographs.<br />Since the authors of these pieces present themselves as staunch intellectuals, probably to ward off the intellectual illegitimacy of their subject, the writing itself tends to the humourless and highbrow. However like any collection of essays, one is able to pick and choose from a variety of voices, even if the conclusions remain disappointingly similar.for women, with heroines objectified but with an erotic pleasure that compensates for the patriarchal oppression of their real erotic lives. Anthony Crabbe argues that sex films are made to prevent people (read - men) from &quot;enlarging their sexual horizons&quot;. He provides an interesting account of Linda Lovelace, who in her biography admitted that her film career was an extension of her being a prostitute. This may be evidence to support the definition of pornography as the debasement of women, but it denies the notion of pornography as instruction, something which Lovelace's notorious Deep Throat can take credit for. What is interesting is that men are thought to be drawn to sex films as an alternative to actual sex, since they can peak much quicker than women, and a real encounter requires more effort if he aims to satisfy his partner. Maggie Humm questions the limited feminist scope of the male &quot;gaze&quot;, claiming that verbal language is ignored. She makes no distinction between porn and mainstream movies, and cites Klute as an example as directed by a man. The voice of Bree, a prostitute, is used to extend the representation of her sexuality in her scenes with a therapist, in Bree's sessions with her clients, and via a tape recording used by the killer. Humm also cites Penthouse's Forum column which allows for greater explicitness than the poses of the magazine's photographs.<BR>Since the authors of these pieces present themselves as staunch intellectuals, probably to ward off the intellectual illegitimacy of their subject, the writing itself tends to the humourless and highbrow. However like any collection of essays, one is able to pick and choose from a variety of voices, even if the conclusions remain disappointingly similar.	2001-01-28
US	49652862	R2D66XQLPSGOTO	0714529141	647603573	State of the Art: Film Writings 1983-1985	Books	5	3	4	N	N	the state of the art in moviemaking	This is Pauline Kael's 8th collection of film reviews taken from The New Yorker magazine covering the period June 1983 to July 1985. The title is a departure from her sexually tinged titles of the past, chosen in favour of Grand Passions, since she wanted something to sound ominous and sweeping and just slightly clinical. The films she praises here include Under Fire, Stop Making Sense, Yentl, The Right Stuff, Prizzi's Honor, Choose Me, The Makioka Sisters, Indiana Jones and the Temple of Doom, and The Leopard. The ones she pans include Flashdance (&quot;You may think it's a little late for this girl to start taking ballet classes, but she's been dancing everynight in her dreams, so who needs practice?&quot;), Terms of Endearment, Rambo, The Draughtman's Contract, Daniel, Silkwood, and The Cotton Club.   Some quotes - I couldn't sit through Betrayal. My body wouldn't let me. Zelig is like a teeny carnival that you may have missed - it was in the yard behind the Methodist church last week. The speeches (in The Draughtman's Contract) are so arch and twitty they seemed to be pitched higher than a dog whistle. Sudden Impact might be taken for parody if the sledgehammer-slow pacing didn't tell you that the director wasn't in on the joke. And, if I never see another fist-fight or car chase or doberman attack, I won't have any feeling of loss. And that goes for rottweillers too.	2001-01-28
US	49652862	R36PXDOX82CH4E	0452266351	95415506	Movie Love: Complete Reviews 1988-1991	Books	5	8	8	N	N	what thou lovest well remains	This is Pauline Kael's 11th and final collection of the film reviews she wrote for The New Yorker, covering the period October 1988 to February 1991. In March 1991 the magazine quietly announced her retirement, due to the extent that the Parkinson's Disease she suffered from had incapacitated her. Her author's note begins wih a quote from Pound - &quot;what thou lovest well remains&quot; - which is an appropriate way to end the relationship she had with movies for over 2 decades, since her inspired reviews of movies of variable quality are Kael's heritage. Her praises here include Women on the Verge of a Nervous Breakdown, Dangerous Liaisons, the doco Let's Get Lost, Batman, Casualties of War, My Left Foot, Drugstore Cowboy, The Grifters, The Fabulous Baker Boys, Vincent and Theo, and Enemies A Love Story. Her pans include Another Woman, Mississippi Burning, Rain Man, Indiana Jones and the Last Crusade, Always, Postcards from the Edge, The Sheltering Sky, and The Bonfire of the Vanities.  Some memorable quotes. Bird looks like he Clint Eastwood hadn't paid his Con Ed bill - the black actors are swallowed up in darkness. As Madame Sousatzka, Shirley MacLaine could be Norma Desmond's sma;;-town spinster sister.  The reference in Beaches to the bad experience Bette Midler had on Jinxed! might have more impact if by then you weren't thinking back on Jinked! almostly fondly. People used to say that Gary Cooper was a fine actor  - probably because when they looked in his face they were ready to give him their powder of attorney. In Born on the Fourth of July, Tom Cruise's hysteria is like a tennis pro falling to his knees and throwing his fists up in the air. A friend of mine broke up with his woman friend after they saw Dance with Wolves: she liked it. As soon as I got home from seeing it, I ran to the phone and warned him not to it with his new woman friend.	2001-01-28
US	49652862	R3CYVDJKX4C6E1	0394554043	130577916	The Hollywood Studios	Books	5	20	30	N	N	who's in the house?	This charmingly study of the Hollywood studios explains that it was the personality and taste of the moguls  that determined the house styles of both the kind of films made and the artists who made them. Mordden is particularly good in analysing at length certain films that exemplify each style.  Paramount was the industry's first big studio and monopolised the theatre chains which guaranteed exhibition of their product, giving founder Adolph Zukor the confidence to experiment. Paramount valued the individuality of directors Ernst Lubitsch and Mitchell Leisen who made elegant &quot;boudoir snafu&quot;, and writer/directors Preston Sturges and Billy Wilder. The actors they served best were clowns, like The Marx Brothers, WC Fields and Mae West.  MGM was Louis B Mayer and he reigned with zealotry, blackmail and tyranny. His operation was a factory and anyone who disturbed the running of the assembly line was discarded - director Erich von Stroheim who's Greed ran for 7 hours, tempestuous diva Mae Murray, womaniser John Gilbert), even the self-willed Lillian Gish who demanded artistic control of her films. Mayer favoured factotum - company men who had a talent for treating actors, like Clarence Brown who guided Garbo's transition into talkies in Anna Christie. Whilst Mayer's style of polished glamour was epitomised by Grand Hotel, which featured stars, art direction by Cedric Gibbons, gowns by Adrian, and the high-key lighting of William Daniels, his head of production, Irving Thalberg earned cudos for greenlighting unprofitable prestige titles over Mayer's objections, like King Vidor's The Crowd and Todd Browning's Freaks. However Thalberg's death left Mayer unchecked, and his Andy Hardy &quot;family&quot; values homogenised the studio's mentality - like Dorothy's banal realisation that there's no place like home. Arthur Freed's unit produced innovative musicals, but as the studio wound down  Mayer was replaced by bookkeeper Dore Schary, who favoured the reliably mediocrity (Kathryn Grayson) to the unpredictable avatar (Judy Garland).   The smaller studios may have existed on low budgets but that doesn't mean their output was always crummy, even if history has forgotten them because the titles have been lost. Hal Wallis' First National featured Colleen Moore who originated the flapper bangs  that Louise Brooks gets credit for. Republic was a minor major (or a major minor), starring the singing cowboys Gene Autry and Roy Rogers, skater Vera Hruba Ralston (the wife of mogul Herbert J Yates), and John Wayne, who won the studio the best picture Oscar for The Quiet Man. Columbia rose to greatness via Frank Capra, Rita Hayworth and screwball comedy, but it's real success was due to mogul Harry Cohn, legendary for being mean. His idea of artistic freedom was &quot;just do it. If it makes money, do another one. If it loses money, you're fired&quot;.  Some independent artists tried to adapt to life at the studios. Buster Keaton's experience with MGM ruined him. Chaplin, Mary Pickford, Douglas Fairbanks, and D W Griffin formed United Artists, but had no studio of their own. Samuel Goldywn retained a studio after the merge with Metro and Mayer. He saw himself as a showman like Ziegfield, his taste ranging from literary titles like Wuthering Heights and The Little Foxes, and vaudevilleans like Eddie Cantor and Danny Kaye. His famous blunder was Nana, an attempt to make Anna Sten the new Garbo/Dietrich and also present Zola to the American public. Amusingly Sten's fractured English was as imitable as Goldwyn's own malaproprisms. David O Selznick shared Goldwyn's taste in literature though his quest for control was without equal. Beginning at RKO then joining MGM when he married Mayer's daughter (&quot;The son-in-law also rises&quot; was the nepotistic quip) before forming Selznick International Pictures, his vision was as epic as the infamous memos to his directors. He had his own Anna Sten in his wife, Jennifer Jones, and though their efforts weren't as disastrous as Goldwyn's, he could never better the albatross success of GWTW.  Warner Bros was the major studio run on a quickie's low budget, Jack Warner's motto being &quot;keep it moving&quot;. The look is flat realism, the milieu urban. Warners was Edward G Robinson, Cagney, Bogart, Bette Davis and Rin Tin Tin. The Jazz Singer was a stunt that paid off. Warners is also backstage musicals with Busby Berkerley's kaleidoscopic formations, Depression-era socially conscious titles like I Am a fugitive from a chain gang, The Maltese Falcon, and Casablanca. Fox is 2 studios -  Fox Film with Mary Pickford, Theda Bara, Will Rogers; and Darryl Zanuck's Twentieth Century Fox. Zanuck was bold. His Depression-era saviour was child star Shirley Temple. He liked blonde women and dark men  - Alice Faye, Betty Grable, Marilyn, Victor Mature, Tyrone Power, and vaudeville interlopers, like The Ritz Brothers and Carmen Miranda. In response to WW2 his technicolour was garish. His humanist polemics like The Grapes of Wrath and The Ox-bow Incident led the way for  Gentleman's Agreement and Pinky at the height of McCarthyism. Zanuck outlasted all the other moguls, and even had a second chance. RKO never had a mogul but was the distributor for independent producers like Pandro S Berman who made the early Katharine Hepburn. Selznick's success with King Kong enabled RKO's Astaire/Rogers series. Orson Welles made Citizen Kane, and Lucille Ball's Desilu saved it from the ghost town Howard Hughes had made. Universal and founding mogul Carl Laemmle had reactionary tendencies - Griffith directed Mary Pickford and the Gish's. Their big ones served their aesthetic - Showboat, Lon Chaney's Hunchback of Notre Dame, All Quiet on the Western Front. However things improved with Fritz Lang's film noir, James Whale's Frankenstein, WC Fields and Abbott and Costello. Later we have camp - Maria Montez, Deanna Durbin, Douglas Sirk's  camp weepies, and the Rock Hudson/Doris Day comedies. The divestiture of the theatre chains in 1950 signaled the end of Hollywood's Golden Age, the bulldozing of the MGM backlots in the 1970's a metaphor for a lost era, though Universal turned their lot into a successful theme park.	2001-01-19
US	49652862	R1MW0LHYY2CW5Y	0688026265	603642582	What a Drag: Men As Women and Women As Men in the Movies	Books	4	2	2	N	N	2	Although drag is loaded with anthropological implications, any examination that opens with a dedication to Pal, who impersonated Lassie, tells you what to expect. The introduction defines drag here as an impersonation  of the opposite sex. Already the notion that one's gender is defined by clothes and not one's body is a given, and that certain clothes are easily identifiable for each sex. The practice began in primitive societies where witch-doctors wore female garb for certain pagan rites. Julius Caesar and Nero dressed as women. Boys played the female roles in Shakespeare's productions, since the Catholic Church had pronounced it immoral for women to appear on stage. The term drag is said to have started from the way the actor came on stage, with his gown behind him. The Japanese Kabuki theatre also employed men to play women. It was in the late 19th century that women began to appear in the theatre as men, the most famous being Sarah Bernhardt playing Rostand's L'Aiglon, Napoleon's doomed heir. In 1892 Brandon Thomas' farce Charley's Aunt debuted to become one of the most performed comedies of all time. Contemporary audiences began to add dimensions to the appreciation of drag, with role-reversal evolving into camp, where the disguise was obvious, or more realistic interpretations where the disguise was unnoticeable. The gay community initially embraced drag as a liberating force of expression until some began to see the stereotyping of women as divas was oppressive, and mysogynistic. A celebration turned into a perceived mockery. This reaction led to the &quot;cloning&quot; of men as cowboys, policeman and blue-collar types, which became known as another form of drag. The lesbian community also reacted against the gay drag phenomena, creating similar butch and femme types, as a reflection of heterosexual coupling (though when a woman donned the female drag things became perhaps a little too confusing). So what began as entertainment took on a political flavourwhen drag, cross-dressing and roleplay confronted ideas of empowerment and identity. Impersonation may reveal more latent sexuality in the impersonator, but one has to consider the partriarchal fears of western society that tells us that men dressed as women is funny - but not funny, and women dressed as men is never funny.   The book presents stills with little commentary so one is free to project one's feelings over the images. Of course, one begins the pretence with the knowledge of the true gender of the pretender. Most of these impersonations are done for comic effect, to create deliberate deceipt, so naturally the man cannot be truely convincing as a woman, and vice versa. At best, they are perceived as being socially unattractive, and thereby less powerful in the battle of the sexes. (Of course it is when they are perceived as attractive that we start getting into trouble, and the idea of a woman in male drag becomes more palatable). The comedy is also reliant upon those who must be deceived being somewhat dim in not realising the deceipt. They exist therefore to be duped and somehow deserve to be manipulated. Some male forms of drag allow for the wearers to continue to express their sexuality, but without the restrictions that a woman would traditionally impose eg the embracing in Charley's Aunt. Some Like it Hot in particular gives the men access to women's private feelings about men. Hot is a troublesome film since the representation of Marilyn Monroe borders on female drag. Since her behaviour caused interminable delays in the making of the film, one wonders whether this is a form of revenge on director Billy Wilder's part. And the famous ending of &quot;nobody's perfect&quot; sits uncomfortably as a gay tag in a time when homosexuality was still closeted. In fact, the extreme (some would say arrested) femininity of the 1950's created great hostility towards gays. In Hollywood Revue of 1929 Marion Davies is seen dressed as a bellboy, however a trick photography still has her as a Lilliputian figure standing under the crotches of a male chorus, with raised eyes.  Maybe because Tony Randall's impersonation in The Seven Faces of Dr Lao was of Medusa, from Greek mythology, and not a contemporary, is the reason his androgyny is so successful. But then Randall's heterosexuality was always in question, which makes the cross-over perhaps easier to accept. Certain female stars in male drag appeared as very handsome boys - Louise Brooks in Beggars of Life, Veronica Lake in Sullivan's Travels, and Katharine Hepburn in Sylvia Scarlett. Brian Deacon's impersonation, under the guise of being an army deserter in Triple Echo, is so weak that it confirms how stupid Oliver Reed as his/her admirer is, and sets up the exposure and savage retribution. Garbo's Queen Christina is memorable for the discovery of her gender by John Gilbert, but without any retribution. Who can forget how unbelievable John Hansen looks as Christine Jorgensen in female drag, even when his/her drag is everyday attire. I haven't seen Anne Heywood in I Want What I Want, but it's always interesting when an actress plays a man wanting to be a woman. Vanessa Redgrave in Second Serve is another example of this. Jamie Farr's Klinger drag on TV's M*A*S*H* is contextualised within the lunacy of war, but Farr should be applauded for such a risky impersonation. And the still of actors in drag for a charity benefit, striking typically male poses eg legs apart, smoking cigars, is amusing in it's statement that appearance does not always alter inherent behaviour, or at least the behaviour the actors wanted to project and us to believe as genuine.	2001-01-06
US	49652862	R2ZZZYHK8VIFS5	0810914166	692942128	Modigliani (Masters of Art Series)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	mannered elegance	This book brings together 40 prints of the artist's paintings in beautiful colour, as well as a lengthy text which precedes them, with photographs of Modigliani, and examples of his sculptures and caryatids. Werner presents M as a tragic figure since his health was poor - he suffered from tuberculosis all his life, and he died relatively young at 35, without receiving any substantial recognition of his work. Much is made of his excessive social life in Paris, though M was Italian, where he is said to have indulged in alcohol and hashish. He focused on painting after he was unable to continue with sculpture because of his lack of money, the difficulty in obtaining materials, and the affect of the stone dust on his weak lungs. Werner also tells us that M suffered from a psychoneurosis, and calls him a &quot;solipsist who produced exclusively self-portraits, symbolic representations of his own tortured soul&quot;. However these arguments do not appear to relate to the nature of his painting. His work is calm, not tortured, and the idea that his infamous style of Expressionist distortion is meant to reveal a &quot;paranoiac autism&quot; seems silly. The photos we see of M show that he does not resemble his skittle-shaped, swan-necked, almond-eyed portraits. Even the notion that some of the subjects having closed eyes meaning an inner directed concentration based on a fear of the world, does not appreciate the stylistic choice he made to express his form of conception upon reality. He had trained as a draftsman and considered his work &quot;illuminations&quot;, accentuating attributes to the point of caricature. The faces of his sculptures bear the same kind of visage. His work is both striking in his use of colour, where he favoured strong lines and prefered primary blacks and reds; and tender in the delicate way he treats the subjects, whether they be Parisian socialities, other artists, his two mistresses - Beatrice Hastings and Jeanne Hebuterne, or working class models like maids and peasants. What ultimately makes the work of Modigliani great is how one can return to the prints again and again, to revel in their mannered elegance, their sadness and beauty, and his unique balance between naturalism and abstraction.	2000-12-29
US	49652862	R5R4RYGNW356I	0312143958	644476980	The Prince, the Showgirl, and Me: Six Months on the Set With Marilyn and Olivier	Books	5	33	36	N	N	insightful about MM and SLO	The cover photo shows Marilyn leaning against Laurence Olivier, she all softness, he all stiff reserve. She holds a finger between their lips. Is she stopping him or teaching him? Either way, it appears she is in control. Perhaps this isn't want Olivier envisaged when he agreed to casting Monroe in his film. The inside story of the making of this film is told by Colin Clark who was the 3rd assistant director, or &quot;gofer&quot;. He thankfully shows a dislike for the Terrence Rattigan play which is to be directed by Olivier, who is a family friend, and married to Vivien Leigh, who had played the role in London. Olivier refers to him as &quot;dear boy&quot;.  Rattigan is &quot;queer, of course&quot; he tells us and Olivier and Leigh &quot;love to have queer courtiers&quot;, though later Clark receives a blow job without resistance. His strategum for solidifying his position in the company is tiresome, but as preproduction begins he peppers his notes to cover himself in hindsight. Everyone's concern is MM. Her reputation for lateness and her reliance upon Paula Strasberg precedes her. While Clark thinks her demands make her spoiled and silly, he also is aware that Larry may not be the ideal choice of director. Clark wishes he could pass on confidances but doesn't. I guess that's the beauty of keeping a diary. Her makeup man gives a warning - Whitey Snyder says he loves Marilyn, but doesn't want to responsible for her behaviour, strange for a man who would later claim to have briefly married her. The makeup tests are a revelation. On film she is luminous, no matter how difficult in person. There is a clue that the British haven't been exposed to such a person before, in a comment about Vivien Leigh - that in spite of her fame being greater than Olivier's, that she always deferred to him. And an acknowledgement that at the time, Monroe is the biggest movie star in the world, just coming off Bus Stop. It is hoped that Marilyn will be more agreeable since she has broughther new husband, Arthur Miller with her, as also A View from the Bridge is due to open in London. As filming begins, Clark defines MM as a mimophant - as fragile as a mimosa about her own feelings, but as tough as an elephant about other people's. She is as self-centred and sensitive as a child and it appears that she needs Strasberg's sycophantic babblings to boost her confidence, which it is feared Olivier is draining. Olivier doesn't understand her fragility. He thinks actors should be to control their nerves. There is also a battle for control over MM going between Milton Greene, Strasberg and Arthur Miller, all whom Clark thinks wants to benefit from their &quot;pot of gold&quot;. If Olivier gives MM a direction which contradicts something Strasberg thinks, there is a delay as Lee Strasberg must be consulted in New York. Understandably, Olivier is in a constant state of rage. Clark actually wonders if MM's dumb act is an act, perpetrated to make herself look better and others foolish.  He has his epiphany with a shared laugh at the faulty opening of doors Marilyn is supposed to burst through. However soon she begins to crumble - Arthur Miller leaves, there are rumours that she is pregnant, and her behaviour is clearly influenced by drugs reportedly supplied by Greene. Olivier says she has an Ophelia complex, because she cannot be reached. Clark amusingly notes that her role of a woman defending herself from an insensitive seducer is one she is no doubt used to, as is the real life situation of her defending herself from an insensitive director. And that the enormous effort it takes for her to remember lines is hampered by the method motivation, since the search precludes being the character and the character doesn't need to remember the lines - she just says them.  Soon Clark is mentioning MM with the same awe as Garbo and Chaplin. &quot;Drugged, confused, frightened, late, vague, maddening as she can be, on screen she is &quot;a force of nature&quot;. Lee Strasberg eventually visits, with daughter Susan, whom Clark has a crush on. Olivier is understandably furious, and has him banned from the set, though his short visit seems to help morale. Director of photography Jack Cardiff confides to Clark that MM had found Miller's open notebook with non too favourable comments about her, which is unusual for a newly wed, and also crushes MM. However filming is finally completed and the crew's reaction to MM's parting gifts represents the ill-feeling she has created  - they all throw them in the garbage. The film was the one and only produced for MM productions. She would next have a success with Some Like It Hot, but director Billy Wilder would have just a bad time with her as Laurence Olivier did.	2000-12-27
US	49652862	R2HB9XM2EQKL0K	0312501617	791550854	Mgm Girls: Behind the Velvet Curtain	Books	5	12	12	N	N	what price Hollywood	The preface states that any book focusing on Hollywood's past as informed by the personalities, is burdened by gossip, speculation, and outright lies - a source described by Norman Mailer as &quot;factoids&quot;. This book has jumping chronology, splintered focus, occasional repetition, and there is no attempt to present the full biographies of these ladies, but the Browns have the knack of presenting trash on a silver tray.  It all started with Louis B Mayer. After he had established his studio he saw that audiences were more captivated by women than men, so he set about finding star actresses. Unable to borrow Gloria Swanson or Mary Pickford, he devised a battle plan where he would create his own stars - Daddy's little girls, who were thirsty enough to &quot;drink from his goblet of temptation&quot;. This is how the careers of Norma Shearer and Joan Crawford were launched. Crawford's rise is paralled with the downfall of Mae Murray, who re-made herself after extensive plastic surgery into a Jazz age baby with bee-stung lips at the age of 39. Although Mayer grew impatient with her demand for extravagance, and she battled with director Erich Von Stroheim on The Merry Widow, she was the number one box office attraction in the world. But it all ended when she ran off with a phony Russian prince, and ended up sleeping on a park bench. It is thought that Crawford's feud with Norma Shearer began when Joan's first film appearance was one line with her back to the camera, while Shearer acted. Crawford was shrewd enough to see Murray's example and play the obedient employee, agreeing to a regimented diet not unlike the one imposed on Judy Garland, and in a Faustian gesture, trading happiness for fame. Mayer imparted a strict moral over his stars. It was one thing to perceive onscreen dalliance when he thought  the &quot;dirty dancing&quot; employed by Gene Kelly and Judy Garland in The Pirate's Voodoo number revealed Garland's interest in Kelly, with her own husband directing proceedings, and ordered the scene deleted from the film (though later we are told the tale of Garland's drug-induced paranoia that left the number incomplete). It was worse when the stars made offscreen love. A case in point was Crawford and Clark Gable, both married at the time, though Gable at the time was not yet the star he would become. Mayer used this as leverage and since Gable prized his career over his love for Crawford, Mayer won. Some stars had the opposite problem. It is said that Garbo's erotic kissing of Robert Taylor's face in Camille is due more to her frustration of his fear of touching her. Garbo is said to have poured over every magazine and gossip column that mentioned her &quot;in a manner that would have made an adolescent girl blush&quot;. The world's fascination with her was ironic because in private she was shallow and the owner of &quot;a chilly soul&quot;. The myth of her reclusiveness was created to cover her public incompetence. Her sets were closed, she was even separated from her crew, and the studio wasn't even told her home address! Her agent Harry Eddington devised the Garbo drag of sacklike clothes, large hat and dark glasses and her private life became as much as performance as those in her films. It is said that Hitler was responsible for the end of her career, by throwing Europe into war and cutting off the distribution channels for American movies. Her European box office is what kept her a star, though I understood that Ninotchka was a hit for her in America.  Marion Davies is described as a butterfly &quot;with glue on her wings&quot; referring to her lover, William Randolph Hearst. We are told that Mayer ordered the studio doctor's prescription of sedatives and stimulants for Judy Garland but arranged it so that Judy's mother was the one who gave them to her. Mayer's agenda was greed and any extra poundage Judy might put on required new costumes, retakes, special editing and continuity nightmares. Her body clock had beenestablished when as a child in vaudeville, she worked late at night and slept until 12 the next day.  However the stories of Garland on Annie Get Your Gun are clearly untrue and unnecessarily cruel in light of the surviving footage and soundtrack.  Other &quot;tragic muses&quot; covered include Barbara LaMarr, who was known as &quot;the girl who was too beautiful&quot; and became addicted to morphine after the studio prescribed it for a sprained ankle; Alma Rubens, another studio-created drug addict; and Jean Harlow. Mayer invented the legend that Paul Bern was impotent and had shruken genitals when it was initially thought that Harlow would be indicted for his murder, as a way to protect the studio by throwing Jean to the wolves. Friday's Child Lana Turner and the Johnny Stompanato killing is raised with nothing new apart from the studios low opinion of Lana's taste in men; and at the height of the Liz/Debbie/Eddie saga, MGM tactfully cast Liz as a whore in Butterfield 8. She got the last laugh when she won the Oscar. Connie Francis may qualify as a latter MGM girl, but she is remembered more for her albums than her films, and perhaps even more for her 1974 rape and ensuing depression. The last of the breed, like Ann Miller, Debbie Reynolds, Jane Powell and Cyd Charisse survived by performing on the road, in Las Vegas and regional theatre. Others like Lucille Ball and Ann Southern did television, but only Liz would last in films and even her time was finite. Mayer had been fired and was dead, MGM closed, the backlots demolished and artifacts like Dorothy's ruby slippers auctioned. The advent of New Wave movies, TV, and the collapse of the studios had made the MGM stars dinosaurs.	2000-12-18
US	49652862	R2VJ2X5WKEB38N	0713472650	472119519	Hollywood Movie Stills: The Golden Age	Books	5	9	9	N	N	what an eyefull!	This book is devoted to a neglected aspect of film-making, illustrated with hundreds of stills, which were produced in vast numbers by the great studios in their Hollywood heyday. Although the invention of photography preceded the development of cinema by over half a century, the stills unit was an important part of the movie-making process, up until the decline of the studios in the mid 1960's. Even in the fledgling silent days, a photographer was usually attached to every production, to provide on the set shots of the cast and crew, which were used in posters and images reproduced in newspapers and magazines as the means of publicity. When it became apparent that audiences were drawn to particular players, portrait photography and &quot;candid&quot; views of the stars became a thriving industry. Galleries were established at the studios, with specialists in lighting, make-up, wardrobe and retouching employed to create timeless, universal and strikingly glamorous images. Sometimes this was of the lower-brow &quot;cheesecake&quot; variety, exploiting the subject's physical attributes, or in line with kitschy seasonal or holiday calendar art. Photographers also took pictures at the star's homes, nightspots, at parties, and premieres and award ceremonies. They took any photos that were needed as props in the films themselves, and occasionally tried gimmicky trick shots, created images that were not to be found in the finished film, or devised a new way of capturing an important scene which had been staged in a way not to lend itself to a still photo. An example given is the still of Claudette Colbert and Clark Gable as hitchhikers in It Happened One Night, sitting side by side on a fence with their thumbs out - a simpler and more direct image which encapsulates the moment in the film. And the stills ordered by Harry Cohn of Rita Hayworth in the hall of mirrors climax of The Lady from Shanghai, made with Hayworth wearing a more provocative costume than she would wear in the film itself. Stills could also be the last surviving visual record of lost or missing films, or films abandoned midway through production like Josef von Sternberg's I Claudius, and George Cukor's Something's Got to Give. Stills also can provide evidence of scenes cut, censored or changed, and even changes of cast. The 1983 reconstruction of the 1954 George Cukor/Judy Garland A Star is Born used stills of cut scenes to fill the gap where the soundtrack had been found but the footage remained missing. Vito Russo's book The Celluloid Closet presented a rare full face portrait of Sebastian Venable from Suddenly Last Summer, who can only be glimpsed from behind in the film. And we see Ingrid Bergman in a draped Grecian gown and an arrow through her neck, meant for the dream sequence devised by Salvador Dali for Spellbound, which Hitchcock edited. Whilst some stills can show details that are not meant to be seen, like a crate of oranges labelled &quot;produce of Israel&quot; in The Sound of Music, others deliberately do not reveal detail as part of the publicity campaign, such as the appearances of E.T., John Hurt in The Elephant Man, and the strict control Alfred Hitchcock placed on stills for Psycho so as not to disclose plot. The studio heads did not approve of these latter stills, finding them overly static and failing to represent the &quot;excitement and flavour&quot; of the film. One can imagine how dumb-founded audiences were to one still in particular of John Gavin and Vera Miles gazing fearfully at a wooden rocking chair, the meaning lost without having seen the film.    It is thought that the quality of stills associated with a film indicates the aesthetic of it's director - someone like Erich von Stroheim took a great interest in his stills, and Josef von Sternberg even accompanied Marlene Dietrich to her portrait sessions. Others were less co-operative. Some hitherto undiscovered talents furthered their careers with portrait stills - Rudolph Valentino is an example - or established stars tried to remake their images. Harold Lloyd lost two fingers and was almost killed in one session when a real explosive bomb was accidently substituted for a paper mache prop. A picture of Clarence Brown directing Garbo in Flesh and the Devil shows the huge lights used, and how close Brown and the camera  is to Garbo's face. Garbo is also seen in a Clarence Sinclair Bull shot for Two Faced Woman yet to be retouched, revealing her &quot;imperfections&quot; - lines under her eyes, and a tiny mole to the right of her nose. The nature of stills was also influenced by censorship, with special concern over the display of women's cleavage.  Numerous stills were also taken as camera tests for costume and makeup at many different angles for continuity and reference purposes, exemplified by the monumental effort to help Dustin Hoffman look like a woman in Tootsie.  The studios also liked to photograph new stars arriving in Hollywood, though a publicity stunt backfired when a giant tame bear who was supposed to shake hands with Mary Martin, had other ideas and ended up on top of her.   Of further interest are examples of &quot;doctored&quot; stills, such as the ones Woody Allen used for his Zelig,. The notorious mishap which occured during a photo session wth Carmen Miranda dancing with Cesar Romero, where what she wasn't wearing under her skirt was captured. The leaning board invented to prevent wrinkling of the dress worn by Jean Harlow in Dinner at Eight. A wedding shot of the sham marriage between Rock Hudson and Phyllis Gates. Boris Karloff in Frankenstein costume eating lunch. The still of Betty Grable which became the most famous pin-up shots of all time. And the genuinely candid and notorious mug shots of an arrested and dishevelled Frances Farmer, juxtaposed with a glamourous portrait taken when she was a leading lady only a few years earlier.	2000-12-10
US	49652862	R3QNFMZLJIM2O4	0671697005	734513486	The Man Who Shot Garbo: The Hollywood Photographs of Clarence Sinclair Bull	Books	5	13	14	N	N	a coffee table treat	Although the title suggests an assassination, it actually refers to Clarence Sinclair Bull, who was MGM's chief portrait and glamour photographer from the studio's inception in 1924 to his retirement in 1961. He began photographing Garbo with her last silent film The Kiss in 1929, and after that she wanted no one else to photograph her. Bull would take over 4,000 individual studies of Garbo, devoting 2 days in his gallery for each of her films. She would pose in the character she was playing, since she saw the stills as part of the film-making process. The stills from The Kiss are particularly striking, &quot;suffused with an elegaic softness and allure&quot; writes Terence Pepper in the text. Bull enclosed Garbo's face in a black shadowy background, and, in contrast to her previous demure studies where she averted her eyes, he had her look directly into the camera and communicate directly with the viewer, &quot;preserving her inner mood&quot;. A beret photograph is so potent that the studio used it for the film poster, and it prefigures her think-of-nothing final close-up from her later Queen Christina. Bull also transposed a vignette study of Garbo's face onto  a photograph of the Cairo Sphinx, to create &quot;The Swedish Sphinx&quot;. When he timorously showed her the result, he was surprised that instead of being offended, she howled with laughter, and approved it's release. It may have become the most widely distributed of her images, but it remains camp at best. Bull would say that she had no bad side and no bad angle, which made her the easiest of all the stars to photograph. Plus he thought she enjoyed their sessions, never tiring of posing for him. The images confirm MGM's agenda of creating flawless beauty, held up before the admiring throng as &quot;nothing less than the Hope diamond in the flesh&quot;. Garbo's skin has a statue-esque perfection, her hair lit to be look soft and pliable. She never smiles but emotion is still evident. The one study in colour is for Two Faced Woman, which is less flattering than the black and white stills. Her hair has been pulled back slightly with a hidden ribbon, exposing her large forehead, and the hardness of her later Cecil Beaton studies emerges, her mouth almost in a sneer of disdain. Perhaps she knew making the film would be a mistake and an end to her film career. We also have a study of Chris, Garbo's stand-in, who apparently was even more mysterious than the one she doubled for. After Garbo retired, perhaps it is only the studies of Cary Grant and Katharine Hepburn that can match the iconoclastic grandness of Bull's work with Garbo, which proves that no matter how talented the photographer, the subject is everything. This kind of portraiture would decline with the collapse of the studios, and when you see the later studies of less arresting faces, perhaps this was for the best. Garbo flourished in a period where the ideals of beauty she radiated were desperately needed, but she always a reluctant star. When the world became indifferent, so did she.	2000-12-03
US	49652862	R36GOTIYV5S0XA	0440220661	718165175	Merchant of Dreams	Books	4	7	8	N	N	rich in detail	In his prologue, Higham tells us that much of the information he discloses has been drawn from hitherto sealed government files. Its more believable that he had long conversations with Howard Strickling, since Strickling was head of MGM's publicity department during the reign of Louis B Mayer, and the one responsible for the covering up of the secret lives of the stars. I guess the fun about gossip is in the discovery of the sordid details. Perhaps it's then only fair that I drop some of the names mentioned and let you discover the particulars. There's actually not a lot that was previously unknown to me. There's the death of Jean Harlow's husband Paul Bern, and then later the death of Harlow herself. The day of the lamentable shortage of knockworst in the commissary when no jockstraps could be worn under tights. The not too surprising inclination of Garbo's mentor Mauritz Stiller. Garbo's repeated no-shows for marriage to John Gilbert, and Mayer's dislike of Gilbert stemming from behaviour long before Garbo came into the scene. Why Garbo never bore a child. The fate of the footage of extras being drowned in Ben-Hur. The men killed by both Clark Gable and John Huston. Lee Tracy's forced retirement. How George Cukor nearly lost the job of directing Camille, as well. The supplier of drugs to Judy Garland. And Leni Riefenstahl's attempts to join MGM. The scandals seem to dissipate once we hit World War 2, or is that Higham's focus is more on Mayer's infidelities, and eventually his clashes with Nicholas Schenck and Dore Schary? Higham also presents a filmic history of the studio and it's output. I wish he'd only given us more dirt, because I get the impression that these scandals are just the tip of the iceberg.	2000-11-21
US	49652862	R8ID0MP6UES5V	0385095228	549244793	I remember it well	Books	3	3	4	N	N	he has selective memory	In the introduction to his autobiography, Vincente Minnelli apologises. He has an insecurity about writing of his life since he believes he has &quot;tip-toed&quot; through it, and he isn't interested in serving up gossip about the people he has encountered. He says he would rather be remembered for his knowledge of rococco furbelows than for anything else. This soon clues you into what kind of book you are getting, one written by a man whose notions of taste and discretion are going to provide an anaemic experience. After a painfully hyperbolic forward by Alan Jay Lerner, and a scripted conversation between his daughter Liza and himself in preparation for the production of A Matter Of Time (the book was written in 1974), Minnelli goes through his past. His transition from window dresser to costume designer to theatre then Hollywood is catalogued, but requires one to have seen the end result to appreciate the detail. And his damnable &quot;discretion&quot; gives it all a reserved and waxed tone. Also those looking for any evidence of his reknowned bisexuality will be disappointed, not surprisingly. Minnelli's reluctance to settle in Hollywood is based on his belief that American films up to that time had no style - the camera rarely moving. This argument is clearly coloured by his initial unsuccessful venture in Hollywood, and is as spurious as the idea that Lerner proposes that it takes a true artist to create something really bad. Minnelli provides an interesting prefiguring of his soon to be wife Judy Garland and her drug addiction when he mentions he was given amphetamines and sedatives to get through the long working hours, but the trial so exhausted him that he soon disposed of this method of endurance. One might then consider Garland's choice, and he makes it clear that she made a choice to continue with the drugs after the years when she began at MGM and she was required to put in 14 hour days, as either foolhardy or admirable in a perverse sort of way ie she was more of a man than he could be. He mentions her pathological desire for approval and the negative influence of her mother who he quips must have been the inspiration for Mama Rose in Gypsy, who was incapable of giving Judy the loving words she so desperately needed to hear. Minnelli may attribute himself with helping Garland's evolution from child-star to woman in her films, and giving her an appreciation of &quot;beautiful things&quot; but ultimately he feels he failed her. &quot;I thought I had a bottomless reservoir of love to offer, but Judy found me lacking&quot;. He adds though that any man would, because of the deep-rooted and open wounds of her childhood, and her depressive notion that self-destruction would &quot;pay them back&quot;, a revenge on those at the studio who had wronged her. It is ironic in their A Star is Born relationship that after a brief shared success, his stock would rise and hers would fall, leading to her departure from MGM and his greatest triumphs. More interesting though is the perceived failures - Brigadoon which he blames on Gene Kelly's lack of enthusiasm, and Kismet, his own reluctant commitment. He lost the chance to direct the film of My Fair Lady because he wanted a percentage, and had planned to direct Marilyn Monroe in Goodbye Charlie before she died. I also liked the mention of projects abandoned - the life of Bessie Smith with Tina Turner, and Liza as Zelda Fitzgerald!	2000-11-18
US	49652862	RDQJWQKS4WNOV	0316481793	622564875	Reeling	Books	5	14	15	N	N	&quot;movies can give us almost anything, almost everything&quot;	This is the 5th collection of Pauline Kael's film reviews from the New Yorker magazine covering the period September 1972 to May 1975. In her forward, Kael mentions this time as an opportunity reviewers dream of with the work of &quot;expansionist&quot; directors like Robert Altman, Francis Ford Coppola and Martin Scorsese, who provide audiences with the &quot;mind-swaying sensation of experiencing several arts - at their highest - combined. We come out reeling&quot;. The book covers the end of the Nixon era where titles like Mean Streets, The Godfather Part II, and Nashville have a &quot;new openminded interest in examining American experience, an interest at once skeptical, disenchanted, despairing and lyrical&quot;. This book features 2 controversial items - her long prophetic analytical essay that stirred up a storm of contention, On The Future of Movies; and her infamous review of Last Tango in Paris, where she compared the first screening to the night Le Sacre du Printemps was first performed. This latter claim would make Kael's detractors salivate at their perception of her pretention, but it also confirms her passion for her craft. The collection's raves, apart from the previously mentioned Mean Streets, Godfather II, and Nashville, include Sounder, The Heartbreak Kid, Images, The Way We Were, The Long Goodbye, Don't Look Now, Thieves Like Us, Alice Doesn't Live Here Anymore, and Shampoo. Her pans include Sleuth, Lost Horizon, Papillon, The Day of the Dolphin, Mame, Lenny, and Funny Lady. The collection also includes reviews of Arlene Croce's The Fred Astaire and Ginger Rogers Book, Norman Mailer's Marilyn, and her essay After Innocence on the Vietnamisation of American movies. Some of Ms Kael's quips: What could be more soul-curdling than a Broadway folk operetta featuring the founding fathers, and double entendres, and national tragedy? The movie version (1776). You can't call Clint Eastwood a bad actor since he'd have to do something before you could consider him bad at it. The Night Porter was directed by a woman, Liliana Cavani, which proves that women can make junk just as well as men. And, in Airport 1975, Karen Black is so archaically helpless as the stewardess who must take over the controls of the plane, that Chalton Heston on the radio telling her what to do, keeps congratulating her if she manages to keep her hand on a lever without hysterics.	2000-10-25
US	49652862	RL1B5AEOAO7IP	0714527262	798856088	When the Lights Go Down	Books	5	10	11	N	N	and all our hopes are concentrated on the screen	This is Pauline Kael's 6th collection of film reviews taken from The New Yorker magazine covering her output for the period July 1975 to March 1979. This is one of her largest volumes so it's a tad disappointing that she provides no foreward. She begins with a long and fascinating essay on Cary Grant, entitled &quot;The Man from Dream City&quot;; and also presents her notes on the nihilistic poetry of Sam Peckinpah; evolving heroes, morals and audiences; and an essay Fear of Movies. Of the reviews, she praises The Story of Adele H, Bergman's The Magic Flute, One Flew Over the Cuckoo's Nest, The Man Who Would Be King, Next Stop Greenwich Village, Taxi Driver, Jaws, Carrie, 1900, Close Encounters of the Third Kind, That Obscure Object of Desire, and The Duellists. She pans Barry Lyndon, Network, the Streisand A Star is Born, Providence, The Serpent's Egg, Coming Home, A Wedding, A Little Night Music, The Wiz, and Midnight Express.  As always, her humour is abundant. On Conversation Piece: the audience might split its sides if Burt Lancaster were to be shown coming out. In Mahogany, Diana Ross doesn't act the starring role, she shoots up on it. In Fun with Dick and Jane, Jane Fonda plays one scene on the commode, probably the only way the director could keep the audience watching. Thieves is like a turkey that falls over without being shot. And on Equus - the only honest sound she heard during the two hours and eighteen minutes was the snoring of the man behind her. And, Richard Burton must be telepathic - doing his elocutionary straight-to-camera speeches, his voice seems to rise in volume during every walkout.	2000-10-19
US	49652862	R2XSI5I0YM4UMM	0806515341	390205489	Hollywood Bedlam: Classic Screwball Comedies	Books	5	25	27	N	N	invaluable	This is in the series of Citadel Press film books so do not expect a definitive study of screwball. (The cover featuring Jean Arthur put me at odds straight away). Everson's opening chapter also gives a specific definition of the genre, emphasising why titles like Bringing Up Baby, and His Girl Friday (fine with me since it's not one of my favourites) do not qualify, and differentiating between farce, slapstick, comedy of manners and satire. Screwball grew out of a reaction to the 1933 Production Code and the Depression. It was a thumbing of the nose to the polite and unreal conventions of &quot;nouveau puritism&quot; and sexual restraints of the period. Everson claims screwball begam emerging in the silent period, climaxed in the late 1930's and early 1940's, but had burned out by the end of WW2. Unfaithfully Yours was perhaps the last remnant, and even it was soured by  the post-war cynicism that created film noir as the new cult. Everson points out that at the height of screwball, Hollywood was both at a technical zenith of factory film-making, and also employed master directors and actors, &quot;elegant sophisticates at their peak&quot;. Everson also considers Preston Sturges an untouchable genius and gives a lengthy analysis of the &quot;failure&quot; The Sin of Harold Diddlebock. (The title is enough to tell you it was in trouble). Some of the titles covered here may be old hat to film students - It Happened One Night, The Lady Eve, Nothing Sacred, The Palm Beach Story, Bluebeard's Eighth Wife, 20th Century, My Man Godfrey, and the screenplays by Billy Wilder and Ernst Lubitsch, but there is a lot here that I had heard of but never seen. A good example is the 2 Hal Roach titles featuring Carole Landis and John Hubbard - Turnabout, and Road Show. As it is in the Citadel Film Series, there are stills without notes covering titles like World Premiere, Bombshell, and Theodora Goes Wild. There is also a chapter on B movies, coverage of the little seen and crazy Hellzapoppin, French titles like La Nuit Fantastique and the Universal release The Rage of Paris with Danielle Darrieux, and a salute to the wonderful character actors who supported the stars. Everson also has some interesting opinions - that Carole Lombard wasn't well directed in My Man Godfrey; that if she had lived, imagine what Sturges could have done with her in The Miracle of Morgan's Creek and The Palm Beach Story; and that Garbo's last film Two Faced Woman has redeeming qualities.  While not perfect (well what admittedly subjective coverage can please everbody?) this is the kind of reference book I like, since it moves me to seek out the films it covers, watch them, then return to read the opinions offered.lzapoppin, French titles like La Nuit Fantastique and the Universal release The Rage of Paris with Danielle Darrieux, and a salute to the wonderful character actors who supported the stars. Everson also has some interesting opinions - that Carole Lombard wasn't well directed in My Man Godfrey; that if she had lived, imagine what Sturges could have done with her in The Miracle of Morgan's Creek and The Palm Beach Story; and that Garbo's last film Two Faced Woman has redeeming qualities.   While not perfect (well what admittedly subjective coverage can please everbody?) this is the kind of reference book I like, since it moves me to seek out the films it covers, watch them, then return to read the opinions offered.	2000-10-15
US	49652862	RJZ8Q1RYPKO50	0525209689	574554492	Star Acting: Gish, Garbo, Davis	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A must for students of acting and iconoclasm	Written before the age of video and DVD, where images can be frozen or the real time of movement altered, this book features over 750 frame enlargements from the films in which Lillian Gish, Greta Garbo and Bette  Davis appeared. These enlargements dissect the craft of each star's acting  style, by reproducing moments, often close-ups, in a frame by frame study,  and also documents the evolution and refinement of technique. The chapters  on Gish are less interesting to me (a matter of personal taste), but the  ones on Garbo and Davis are priceless. The films Garbo made were  notoriously inferior to what she brought to them. Nowhere is this more  evident than in her silent period, though Affron gives us images from films  lost or unavailable to us. An example is A Woman of Affairs and the  sequence where she embraces a bouquet of flowers from her lover. Affron's  images convey the series of expressions that range from relief, panic at  the thought of losing the bouquet again, and hysteria. The enlargements  capture the transitions, and the &quot;organic and spontaneous nature of  her epiphany&quot;. The text which accompanies the frames is often  hyperbolic and unnecessary. Garbo's sound era is best represented and  finalised by the enlargements from Camille, since Affron does not cover  Conquest, Ninotchka or Two-Faced Woman.  Affron's chapters on Davis cover  her apprenticeship with Warner Bros, highlights the three films she made  with William Wyler - Jezebel, The Letter and The Little Foxes - as  exercises in control and focus, and culminates in her triumph in All About  Eve.  There is an argument that reducing film performance, particulary ones  from a talkie, is diminishing the accomplishment of the performer. While  this book could be used as an alternative to the films the frames are taken  from, I prefer to use it as a supplement to the films, and an opportunity  to appreciate the beauty and talent of these extraordinary actors	2000-07-01
US	49652862	R3TE9YBFZUZF6X	0091834422	387893284	Jean Lee: The last woman hanged in Australia	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Gruesome and Great	I came across this book in the crime section of my library and, havingnever heard of the case before - since the events occured long beforemy birth- I was soon captivated. What attracted me to the book was that it was not written as a dry historical piece. Rather what makes it fascinating is how the writers (Paul Wilson co-wrote with Don Treble and Robyn Lincoln) include imagined conversations, to try to fill in the dots, where only the criminals themselves would have known the truth. These conversations appealed to the playwright in me. Jean Lee was the last woman hanged in my country, but not the last person, since at least one other man has been hanged, to my knowledge since. Jean's accomplices' Robert Clayton and Norman Andrews were also hanged at the same time Jean was. The writers make the claim that the hangings occured out of expedience for the resident state government, when doubts still remained concerning the case. It was never clear what part Jean Lee played in the murder, and the police interrogation procedures of the accused three was later found to be highly questionable. The writers also believe that an example was made of Jean, because of her sex and working-class origins, as a warning to other women of conservative post-war Melbourne of the consequences of deviating from the socially approved path of feminity. This latter claim is one I have a bit of trouble with, because to my mind, the writers have made it clear Jean intended to swindle Pop Kent, the murder victim. The fact the he was killed as a result of being robbed does not diminish her responsibilty for her actions. The book is meticulously researched, and includes photographs of all the people involved. I particularly liked seeing the gallows where the hangings took place and the &quot;punishment&quot; hood which features on the cover, creating a medieval and creepy image.	2000-06-22
US	49652862	RDIDQQHUT83CV	052524705X	606352990	Hooked (A William Abrahams Book)	Books	5	8	8	N	N	get Hooked	This is Pauline Kael's ninth collection (and eleventh book) and it covers her film reviews from The New Yorker magazine from July 1985 to June 1988. In her author's note she claims that the period begins lamely then suddenly  there's one marvellous movie after another. The films she praises here  include Secret Honor (she has long been an Altman fan), Dreamchild, Under  Fire, My Beautiful Laundrette, Blue Velvet, Something Wild, The Stepfather,  Prick up your Ears, The Dead, and The Unbearable Lightness of Being. The  ones she pans include Cocoon, the notorious Heaven's Gate, Year of the  Dragon, The Color Purple, Shoah, Revolution, Platoon, Ishtar, Ironweed, and  Empire of the Sun. She also reviews 2 books - Paul Coates' The Story of the  Lost Reflection and Katharine Hepburn's The Making of The African Queen. As  always, she can make me laugh. Movies that are consciously life-affirming  are to be consciously avoided. There's a price to be paid for being  likeable in a TV series week after week, year after year: the only thing  that can save Alan Alda now is to play bastards or weirdos, preferably in a  heavy disguise. It would take a board of enquiry made up of gods to  determine whether this picture (Heartbreak Ridge) is more offensive  aesthetically, psychologically, morally, or politically. And, I'll probably  be chastised for being a woman finding fault with a war film, but I've  probably seen as much combat as the men saying &quot;This is how war  is&quot;.	2000-06-21
US	49652862	R3BOTYGLITNAKK	0714509418	432013320	Deeper into Movies	Books	5	27	28	N	N	winner of the National Book Award (Arts and Letters, 1974)	Pauline Kael's third collection of film reviews from The New Yorker magazine covers the period September 1969 to March 1972. Kael's anti-intellectual stance (she is fond of cursing) and wicked sense of  humour makes her probably the most accessible of the critics. Her desultory  reviews can be often more entertaining than the complimentary ones. In this  volume she praises (among others) The Sterile Cuckoo, La Femme Infidele,  They Shoot Horses Don't They, M*A*S*H*, McCabe and Mrs Miller, Sunday  Bloody Sunday, The Last Picture Show, Fiddler on the Roof, Cabaret, and The  Godfather. She pans The Arrangement, Hello Dolly, Topaz, The Honeymoon  Killers, Ryan's Daughter, Love Story, Carnal Knowledge, Dirty Harry, and  The Boyfriend.  As for most of her writing, one can read the reviews simply  for the pleasure of her craft, without having to or even wanting to see the  film she is discussing. A few things gave me a giggle. Her list of  deterrents to movie-going. Keir Dullea at the premiere of de Sade getting  applause for a closeup of his face, then the next shot being a closeup of  his horse's face and the horse getting applause, too. Her constitutional  aversion to movies about beautiful women whose souls have been lost, stolen  or destroyed, especially when it isn't clear - and it never is - whether  the heroine had a soul in the first place. And how in Nicholas and  Alexandria, the actor playing Lenin is photographed like the statues of  Lenin and he behaves like a statue.	2000-06-20
US	49652862	R2OTXSVPG7KOFR	030432714X	608676160	Coming Out of the Blue: British Police Officers Talk About Their Lives in 'the Job' As Lesbians, Gays and Bisexuals (The Cassell Lesbian and Gay Studies)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Totally gobsmacking	Marc E Burke was an officer in the British police force from 1982- 1986 and his book is a collection of transcribed interviews from currently serving and retired British police officers, bracketted by Burke's  psychological analysis and commentary on the issues raised.  Burke says he  prepared the book for a cross section of readers. The general public to  raise awareness of police &quot;culture&quot;, the force to highlight the  experiences of gay police, and the gay community to show the commitment  most gay police have to working with them. The biggest discovery in the  book is the notion of gay police living in a &quot;no-man's land&quot;  whereby they don't connect with either their workmates because they are  gay, or the community because they are police, and thereby bear the  contempt of both.  The book makes the issue of coming out in the force a  major trauma and how a number of officers have resigned because of it. The  force is perceived to be an ultra-conservative body and there are as many  cases of officers showing their support for an &quot;out&quot; copper as  there are of harassment by homophobic police.  In the chapter  &quot;Casualties&quot; there is the story of a former Irish officer hounded  for years because he was seen living with his male lover, who was  eventually dishonorourably discharged. The horror of this experience is  expressed in 13 rivetting pages of beautifully written prose.  All the  interviews in the book are surprisingly good- easy to read and often funny  and enlightening.  What is not good is Burke's tedious commentaries, since  he points out what is obvious from the interviews and his academic approach  is often inaccessible. Burke's commentary is presented in plain text while  the interviews are in italic, so perhaps my preference is influenced by  what my eyes go to more easily.   An annoying note is that each interview  gives the officers rank but unless you have a prior knowledge of these  acronyms or can memorise the list at the end of the book, you'll be  flicking back and forth to find out what all those letters mean, or not  bother as I soon learnt to do.  A few things gave me a giggle. The San  Francisco Golden State Police Officer's Association (GSPOA) used to be  known as Pigs in Paradise (PIP) and their newsletter is called &quot;The  Hog Caller&quot;. The myth that gays are attracted to men in uniform and  savour the use of their handcuffs and truncheons (!). That it is always the  most homophobic men that gay men are least likely to want to bed. That  force hockey is the secret lesbian society. And the classic beat story of  an officer jumping out from a van and chasing a man across the Clapham  Common. When the man gave up out of exhaustion, the officer tapped him on  the shoulder and said &quot;You're it now. You have to chase me ..&quot;  and ran off back to the man.	2000-06-15
