US	49664433	RCFBJEHB4EJB9	0060196335	530120732	Unlocking The Sky: Glenn Hammond Curtiss and the Race to Invent the Airplane	Books	4	5	10	N	N	Curtiss vs. Wright	Seth Shulman writes a highly entertaining, enlightening, and well-written biography of the irrepressible Glenn Curtiss in \\"Unlocking The Sky.\\" Unlike the typical biography, however, which drags out every last boring detail of the subject, Shulman's Unlocking The Sky cuts to the chase, framing Curtiss's life in the context of his early-and most significant-inventive successes, his involvement in the resurrection of the Langley Aerodrome, and his gut-wrenching and years-long legal battle with Orville and Wilbur Wright. <br />  <br />Before consuming Shulman's text I was, like most Americans, sold on the mythical status of the Wrights and their achievement.  What little I knew of Curtiss created an image of a creative but conniving Johnny-come-lately in the burgeoning aviation field.  When I read and reviewed \\"The Wright Brothers: A Biography\\" by Fred C. Kelly, which does an excellent job at presenting the Curtiss vs. Wright patent case in favor of the Wrights, I stated that with their \\"successful and historic flights at Kitty Hawk in 1903 the Wrights had ushered in a reasoned, scientific approach to the quest for man-flight. They had accomplished the impossible in virtual isolation, without financing or institutional support. They embody the can-do American ideal of independence and ingenuity.\\" <br /> <br />Unfortunately, they also embody the American penchant for litigation.  Even as taken with the Wrights as I was then, I did have the foresight in my review to add that while the Wrights \\"undoubtedly deserve the admiration and gratitude of mankind--Kelly was a personal friend of the Wrights and I'd like to read other viewpoints on the legal aspects of their later battles. Kelly may have been too close to render an objective and balanced picture of them. <br /> <br />This is exactly what Shulman supplies in impressive fashion.  Undoubtedly the debate over patent infringement and the pre-Curtiss-reconstruction viability of Langley's aerodrome will go on indefinitely.But Shulman is convincing that Glenn Curtiss is an American worthy of greater renown-perhaps worthier than even the Wrights.  Curtiss was certainly a more likable and prolific inventor. <br /> <br />A very minor, subjective beef with the book is something he hints at in the acknowledgements when he thanks his agent, who \\"strongly encouraged me to experiment with the narrative form.\\"  The result is an abruptly shifting narrative style sometimes referring to events historically, and other times in present tense-as if we were watching it occur now.  The device served only to throw me out of the story.  All in all, though, it's a very enjoyable and highly recommended book.  --C.B. Jonnes	2004-09-28
US	49664433	R18L8AJJ52974	0805061231	510058680	Saratoga: Turning Point of America's Revolutionary War	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Like You Were There	Richard M. Ketchum has done such an outstanding job of historical research and non-fiction writing that it's as if readers are there at the scene, watching events unroll before their very eyes. In \\"Saratoga\\" he goes way beyond a simple reciting of troop movements and statistical results; he takes us behind the lines and into the minds of the officers. Who were these men and what prompted them to make the decisions that led to Britian's devastating defeat and a major turning point in the Revolutionary War in favor of the Americans?<br />Ketchum spends a lot of ink setting the stage: Who was \\"Gentleman Johnny\\" Burgoyne and how did he come to lead the British invasion of New England from Canada? Who were the Germans, often inaccurately referred to exclusively as \\"Hessians,\\" and why were they there supporting the British? How did Burgoyne's decision to employee Canadian and--more relevant--Iroquois Indians to assist the British invasion affect the campaign? Who were the American officers and how did they get a rag-tag crew of citizen soldiers to defeat arguably the greatest army on earth at the time? Ketchum fleshes out his character portraits and explanations of the ensuing action with generous use of quotes from actual correspondence of the day by many parties involved, officers and enlisted men alike.<br />The action chronicles Burgoyne's interminable advance down Lakes Champlain and George to the Hudson River where he is to meet General Howe's northbound Army--a pincer move that will divide the New England and southern colonies and win the war. Their auspicious start--fair weather, fast movement, high morale, superior numbers and weaponry--culminates in the shockingly easy victory over the American's prize northern fort at Ticonderoga with nary a shot fired when St. Claire decides (wisely) to retreat. But from there the fun is over. Nasty weather, brutal wilderness, unruly Indians, incompetent officers, unwieldy supply lines, dwindling troop counts, desertion and disease, and, of course, the tenacious and heroic efforts of the seemingly overmatched American Continentals and militias eventually spell doom for the invasion force in the train wreck called the Battle of Saratoga. Ketchum sketches in fine detail the whole excruciating campaign.<br />One of the startling obstacles of waging 18th-Century warfare was the slow speed of communication, not just with troops deployed across a broad battlefield, but with distant command structure. Never was this more evident than with British efforts to wage war from across the Atlantic, where instructions, supplies, and reinforcements took literally months to appear on scene. With perfect hindsight it's hard to imagine how Burgoyne's campaign had any chance of success, unless he were to charge relentlessly toward Albany, regardless of the condition of his troops; or unless Generals Howe or Clinton had moved to support him in time, as originally conceived. Time and delay were Burgoyne's greatest enemies.<br />History books are often tedious. Not so with \\"Saratoga.\\" Ketchum has set the table for plenty of exciting what-if play by armchair generals. I couldn't put this exciting volume down! --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2004-01-27
US	49664433	R2D2XYSDFT25DI	0060542217	214694261	American Woman: A Novel	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Depends on your Point of View	\\"American Woman\\" is a fictional takeoff on the early 1970's Symbionese Liberation Army abduction of Patty Hearst.  Left-wing radical Jenny Wong is on the run from the police in Upstate New York, trying to escape the fate of her soul mate, William, in jail for bombing draft offices. After most of the SLA-like group is slaughtered in a shoot-out with police, fellow radical and ex-lover Rob Frazer tracks her down to recruit her services in lending underground support to the three surviving members of the gang. In exchange for aid from Frazer and Jenny, the three warriors are to write their manifesto, a book that Frazer will get published to promote the cause and earn some money. But just as their plans ultimately unravel and their whereabouts are exposed to the authorities, Choi unravels and exposes the make-up and motivation of these complex characters.<br />From one POV, \\"American Woman\\" is a lyrical novel written with a unique voice.  Choi is blessed with a substantial vocabulary and the natural gift of beautifully poetic sentence structure.  Her tale is a literary examination of the human condition cleverly disguised as a contemporary suspense novel.  The result is a moving and memorable installment of The Great American Novel. It hearkens back to a time when novels were written to be savored by the word in a comfortable chair, not skimmed by production company development departments looking for the next blockbuster film.<br />From another POV, this is a chick book, a young, idealist writer's concept of what a suspense novel should be: deep delving into emotions, motives, and page-long descriptions of scenes--and very light on action, dialogue, and ... suspense.  The use of an uncommon narrative style and the quirky and seemingly backwards practice of throwing in characters long before introducing them to the reader adds an almost experimental quality to the book.<br />Enjoyment of American Woman will be a matter of taste.  The whole point of writing the book maybe lost on commercial fiction fans.  The book plods along with a slow building of tension that might be expected to finally release in an ejaculation of thrilling drama at an intersection of these two POVs. But it doesn't happen. The climactic and potentially exciting moments are skipped over and suddenly treated as past tense. There is a great lesson in patience for the antsy fan of contemporary page-turners. For lovers of the pure literary novel there is ample reward for the anticipation.  --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2004-01-14
US	49664433	R1LP1Y6DW5U5JA	044653191X	635347725	Arrogance: Rescuing America From the Media Elite	Books	4	1	5	N	N	How To Watch The News	Bernie Goldberg's &quot;Arrogance&quot; is another installment in the recent blitz of media-bashing exposés. A number of pundits and media insiders--mostly conservative--have authored books critical of the &quot;liberal&quot; media, which should go a long way toward ending the Left's monopoly on the news. This has helped thrust FOX News to new heights, spurned growth of talk radio, and offers the general public more options and points of view from which to gather information on the current events that shape our world. This is a good thing.<br />In &quot;Arrogance&quot; Goldberg starts out, oddly, with a weak and unpersuasive discussion of an ongoing correspondence he'd been having with CBS's Andy Rooney.  The tone of this chapter is vindictive, and the crux of his assertion--that Rooney is a left-leaning weenie who inadvertently exposed CBS's liberal core and then backtracked, equivocated, and covered up when challenged--was largely trivial and irrelevant.<br />But the book gathers steam and improves throughout.  His explanation of how &quot;news&quot; is developed almost exclusively by the wires and the New York Times and fed to the public is eye opening.  The examples of how individual stories are spun--whether intentionally or not--is fascinating.  And he points out clearly that it is the omission of critical stories or pertinent information on stories that causes the largest bias.  He also provides a statistic that dramatically shows how critically important all this is: that while 95% of the general public does not subscribe to the New York Times, 95% of policymakers and elite do.<br />To his credit (and thankfully, since too much of the book is whiny) Goldberg then launches into what he calls his &quot;12-Step Program&quot; for &quot;Rescuing America From the Media Elite&quot; and fixing what's wrong in America's newsrooms.  His ideas for this are well thought out, and some might even work.  Goldberg is obviously a conservative and &quot;Arrogance&quot; is more evidence of the Right's purportedly unfair treatment by the media.  But the big picture from the book is the valuable lesson on how the news works, how bias gets inserted, how insidious that can be, and therefore, how consumers should view the news.  Regardless of ideology, this book is further proof that news should be watched with a critical, suspicious eye, and that the best-informed people will get a news story from several divergent sources before reaching conclusions.  --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2003-12-09
US	49664433	R1HX1ZAAAZIDMD	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	5	7	N	N	The Epitome of Suspense Fiction	There are so many reviews already written on this #1 bestseller, there's no point in further summarizing the plot. It should be enough to know that Dan Brown's &quot;The Da Vinci Code&quot; has already inspired a TV documentary on the possibility that the book's premise is true. Not many works of fiction accomplish that. My general thoughts are that, simply put, this is the best thriller I've ever read. This is the book I want to write when I grow up. The action begins almost immediately, and never lets up. There are no weak spots. No points at which one loses interest or wishes the author wouldn't go off on some tangent in search of &quot;literary excellence.&quot; This is straight, old-fashioned story tellin'. And what a tale.<br />Critics can claim that the book is too &quot;commercial&quot; and formulaic, but while that may be true, it is the quintessential example.  The book is neither character nor plot driven; it's premise driven, and though the devices employed by Brown to transfer the enormous body of research to the reader become less than transparent, the concept is so intriguing that the book works. It more than works. He makes believable an otherwise preposterous and controversial supposition: that the Holy Grail is a highly guarded collection of documents proving that there are living ancestors to the offspring of Jesus Christ and Mary Magdelene. My single complaint is one that can't be fixed. One gets so swept up in this history lesson and Grail quest that a letdown is inevitable. Neither Brown nor his protagonist know the definitive truth or location of the Grail, and therefore, despite the growing feeling that you're about to learn some fantastic universal truth, you're left at book's end with the rather depressing realization that you've simply read a good book, and nothing more.<br />I generally avoid the New York Times best seller list. Not because those books aren't good, but because it's often a mystery why those select few have been filtered out of the pack and afforded full support and attention by the industry, media, and reading public to the detriment of the thousands of worthy midlist writers left behind. This is one book that in my opinion deserves its place at the top. And Brown deserves every penny for his effort. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD.ut of the pack and afforded full support and attention by the industry, media, and reading public to the detriment of the thousands of worthy midlist writers left behind. This is one book that in my opinion deserves its place at the top. And Brown deserves every penny for his effort. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD.	2003-12-05
US	49664433	R3UALOM93A1YOK	067003259X	688507671	Foul Matter	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Eclectic Genre Bender	Martha Grimes' \\"Foul Matter\\" is a unique read. Ostensibly a mystery, it veers far afield, flirting with the literary fiction category and, incredibly, morphing into a madcap comedy. The result is a strange fictional brew that illuminates an even stranger book publishing industry, something that appears to be all underbelly.<br />Fictional New York Times best-selling \\"commercial fiction\\" author Paul Giverney, coveted by all the top publishers, sets the plot in motion by approaching an unscrupulous New York publishing house and offering to sign with them under one odd condition: that they cut loose their number one literary fiction author, Ned Isaly. The editors there conclude that for various reasons their only option to meet Giverney's demand (which they're willing to do at any cost) is to kill Isaly. They hire hit men to do the deed. As the plot thickens and widens to include other players, and as suspicions, doubts, and recriminations begin, private investigators, bodyguards, and competing hit men are hired. But who, if anyone gets killed? And what was Giverney's motivation from the beginning?<br />As the reader struggles with the preposterous plot, yet marvels at Grimes' ability to oscillate between commercial and literary writer herself, light is shown on a nasty industry where big money and bigger egos taint the highly revered \\"published word.\\" Grimes exposes the cynical process by which manuscripts become books, best described as literary sausage making.<br />I found \\"Foul Matter\\" difficult to get into. It has many characters to meet and remember, none of whom are heroic. The two most likable are the hired assassins, who are very funny. The plot is frustratingly ridiculous until you grasp the comedic parody behind it. Her distinct writing voice (choppy-stream-of-consciousness-descriptive-exploring-emotions-literary-chick stuff) is not my style (purely subjective). Yet she is a writer clearly at the top of the game, a publishing insider with the knowledge and credibility to pull off this tale, and the wake this book leaves is all positive. Her exposé confirms impressions of the book industry from my two-book experience, and strengthens my resolve to support mid-list writers. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD.	2003-11-28
US	49664433	R49VK13HJ2TT9	0486260569	223789723	The Wright Brothers: A Biography (Dover Transportation)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Only 100 Years Ago	Considering that Fred Kelly's biography was first published in 1943, the text has a surprisingly contemporary style and its underlying research is up to today's high biographical standards. There is little hint in the reading that the book is so dated. What will never get old is the fantastic story of the Wright Brothers.<br />Kelly begins with a brief history of the brothers' childhood, with parents who nurtured creativity and the quest for knowledge. They were the kind of kids who were fascinated with how things worked. Their interest in flight began when their father bought them a small rubber-band-powered toy kite. That interest slowly grew to a sideline obsession as they matured and began earning a living with their Dayton bicycle shop. They gathered and studied everything they could on the science of flight, including the works of Langley, Chanute, and Lilienthal. This led to the construction of gliders capable of holding a human passenger, with which they began methodical testing to understand aerodynamics and the nature of pressure on wing surfaces. To accomplish this in more efficient manner they invented the world's first wind tunnel, and patented wing warping and ailerons.<br />Eventually satisfied with their glider, the Wrights graduated to attempts at powered flight. When their motor didn't seem up to the task, they scratch-built their own. The culmination--after years of tinkering and learning--was the successful and historic flights at Kitty Hawk in 1903. The Wrights had ushered in a reasoned, scientific approach to the quest for man-flight. They had accomplished the impossible in virtual isolation, without financing or institutional support. They embody the can-do American ideal of independence and ingenuity.<br />What is almost equally fascinating about their story is what Kelly chronicles after the 1903 flights. The patriotic Wrights immediately foresaw the military potential for the flying machine and wanted America to benefit from their invention. But in 1903 man-flight was considered impossible. It took four years to convince the War Department that they weren't crackpots. It was nearly five years before the general public caught on to their accomplishment. And after others, such as Glenn Curtiss, began building their own planes--and infringing the Wright patent--it seemed to consume the rest of Orville' and Wilbur's lives to prevent history from being rewritten. They became embroiled in nasty feuds with Curtiss and the Smithsonian Institute over credit for their inventions and the right to claim first to fly.<br />While Kelly does an excellent job at presenting the case in favor of the Wrights, who undoubtedly deserve the admiration and gratitude of mankind--he was a personal friend of the Wrights and I'd like to read other viewpoints on the legal aspects of their later battles. Kelly may have been too close to render an objective and balanced picture of them. The brilliant brothers did seem to be a couple of characters. Oddly, there is no mention in the book of involvement with women. Were they a couple of male spinsters? --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD.	2003-11-05
US	49664433	R32LXZLSO6JL4O	0743216458	867939499	Band of Brothers: E Company, 506th Regiment, 101st Airborne from Normandy to Hitler's Eagle's Nest	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Surprisingly Poignant	I didn't expect such an emotional reaction to Stephen E. Ambrose's Band of Brothers. Having recently read his historical account of the D-Day invasion at Normandy with its mostly just-the-facts style, I was prepared for more of the same. What I got was that  ... and a whole lot more.<br />Band of Brothers chronicles the travels and travails of Easy Company of the 101st Airborne Division, which dropped behind enemy lines in France on D-Day, June 6, 1944, and marched on through battle after battle--including the Battle of the Bulge--right to Berlin. Surprisingly, even after all they had been through they were reassigned to the Pacific to continue their heroic efforts against the Japanese, and were prevented from doing so only because Japan surrendered before they got there. Like Ambrose's D-Day book, Band of Brothers provides step-by-step detail of the movement of men and materiel, the key weaponry, and the significant events that shaped each major battle involving Easy Company. But where D-Day focuses exclusively on the Normandy invasion and is colored by anecdotes and quotes from a cross-section of the men participating, this book focuses on one group of men and their experiences. The reader develops a more personal connection to the characters and the harsh realities of their ordeal.<br />The book's title is significant because Ambrose endeavors to explain the rare relationship that develops between men in combat, particularly those in elite outfits that see so much action. In proving this he touches on the mysterious allure of war, which is more than the quest for glory or political righteousness. Despite the manifest horrors, those with no combat experience are left feeling almost envious of the close kinship bond these men enjoyed. They often hated the Army, their officers, the training, the conditions, the combat, the death, and only occasionally glimpsed the value of their sacrifice. But they would--and did--march through hell for one another.<br />The emotional power of the book is in the quotes from the participants themselves. These are men of the Greatest Generation. They speak simply, with little pretense, and with no apparent attempt at exaggeration. None is needed; the truth is plenty shocking. I was reminded several times of the tear-jerking final scene in the movie, Saving Private Ryan, when an elderly Ryan finally musters the courage to visit the Normandy memorial and pay homage at the gravesite of his war savior (Tom Hank's character, who was killed saving Ryan in the war, and who'd asked with his dying breath that Ryan live his life in worthy fashion). This book evokes a number of similar feelings, but with the real words of real people recounting real events. A magnificent achievement. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2003-10-30
US	49664433	R2C83Y93TIXP3M	0609810057	190302909	Mozart's Brain and the Fighter Pilot: Unleashing Your Brain's Potential	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Use it or Lose it	In his 15th book, renowned brain expert Richard Restak offers up twenty-eight tips on how to improve the function of our brains and possibly help stave off senility, Alzheimer's, and other mental impairments.  At the heart of his message is the fact that, unlike our body's other organs, the brain doesn't age, but will suffer atrophy with disuse.  Luckily, with constant stimulation of the proper kind, the brain can stay sharp and actually improve to the end of our years.<br />The list of beneficial brain activities includes listening to or--better yet--learning music (this is where Mozart comes in), playing challenging games, reading advanced books, meditating, solving puzzles, playing certain sports, and even watching thought-provoking television programs.  Restak also offers a number of brain &quot;exercises.&quot;  These are essentially new ways to think of stuff.  While some of these seem a bit boring and time consuming, with results that aren't quite clear, there is something for everyone in the book.<br />Despite an intriguing title, the book is a bit dry.  His detailed explanation of the inner workings of the brain isn't going to be for everyone.  But since we all seem to be living longer lives, and nobody wants to spend them in a nursing home, it makes a lot of sense to follow Restak's twenty-eight easy steps to life-long lucidity.  Definitely a worthwhile read.  --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2003-10-21
US	49664433	R3H7NQV4KYD7PD	B0000C7BN4	779051969	The Savage Nation: Saving America from the Liberal Assault on Our Borders, Language and Culture	Books	4	5	9	N	N	Spleen Venting	In \\"The Savage Nation,\\" ultra-conservative talk radio host Michael Savage airs his opinions on what's going wrong in America today, and who's to blame: liberals.  He chronicles what the largely liberal-Democrat-controlled government has done to America from FDR to present.  Among others, the list of failures includes the creation and expansion of the welfare state and its resulting tax burden and destructive sense of entitlement; the flood of illegal immigration; the secular assault on Judeo-Christian morality; the piecemeal destruction of the legal system by frivolous lawsuits, scandalous awards, and the ACLU's constitutional challenges.<br />In each section of the book he details an example problem--such as that 25-30% of all prisoners in American jails are illegal immigrants--and then fleshes out his reasoning as to how insane liberal policies cause or exacerbate the problem (such as handing out drivers licenses to illegal aliens, who can then vote or board planes).  Savage brings a fresh and provocative perspective to otherwise typical conservative gripes.  His anything-but-dull book succeeds in stimulating the mind, and will certainly entertain and energize hardcore conservatives.<br />But unlike conservative Ann Coulter who takes a more high-brow and footnoted approach to condemning the Left, Savage fails to provide enough factual evidence to back up many of his claims.  Further, he makes the fun but overdone assertion that liberals are latter-day Nazis, Bolsheviks, and various other archenemies of the American Way.  He contends that if one travels far enough left in the political spectrum--beyond socialism and communism--the destination is the far right: fascism.  While most of his positions are fundamentally correct and fall short of demagoguery, he weakens his argument with unnecessary exaggeration.<br />I wouldn't accuse Savage of being politically incorrect--that's a leftist hang-up, and clearly Savage could care less anyway--however, if his aim is to inject meaningful debate into the mainstream and sway open, teetering minds, a bit more tact and diplomacy is in order.  If Savage were a politician, he would not be considered a statesman.  His ranting and name-calling give the Left plenty of ammunition to marginalize him to the fringe right, to label him as radical and dangerously extreme.  Savage has hurt his chance to be taken seriously or participate in the slow movement of the general media off left of center.  Savage ends up being his own worst enemy.  His emotion-charged prose provides catharsis for many conservatives, but ultimately he's simply preaching to the choir.  He closes his book by claiming that \\"I want to elevate the dialogue, if I can, to some level that's civil.\\"  You don't do that by calling the other side Nazis.  --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2003-10-03
US	49664433	R3IJU0XKP9MHVF	0060005556	187103372	Last to Die (Jack Swyteck Novel)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	First To Applaud	In James Grippando's Last To Die, Miami defense attorney Jack Swyteck is an ethical, competent, and good-looking lawyer who finds himself smack dab in the middle of one of the best murder-mystery plots to come along in years.<br />Sally Fenning, a twice-married ex-Hooters waitress, has been murdered. Her rich second husband forked up an eighteen million dollar divorce settlement beforehand, which has grown to a nifty forty-six million at the time of her death. And she has left an interesting will. There are six beneficiaries, all presumably her enemies, but they don't split the money. Only the last surviving beneficiary collects the full amount. Thus ensues a fast and furry contest between those vying for the big prize, including Sally's first husband and his lawyer, a prosecutor, a reporter, a small-time thug, and a shadowy figure known only as Alan Sirap.<br />Strangely, Jack Swyteck is retained for probate and other legal advice by the thug, Tatum Knight. Tatum is the brother of Theo, a wrongly accused black man Jack had rescued from death row years earlier. Seems that Tatum, an ex-hitman who now only beats up people for money, was hired by Sally to kill ... Sally. She turns up dead. He's named in the will. He proclaims innocence--but needs Jack's help to prove it.<br />A few more plot twists spice things up even more. Sally had narrowly survived a knife attack years earlier. Her five-year-old daughter was not so lucky. A mysterious stalker is the prime suspect, but he's never caught or identified. Sally's second husband dies of AIDS. Oddly, Sally has a beautiful sister living in Africa to whom she fails to leave a penny. Did Sally know her stalker? Why on earth would she set up her own death? Why are the beneficiaries her enemies? Is Tatum good at heart like his brother Theo? For Theo, is blood thicker than water? Which of the two babes in the story will Jack end up with? And who the heck is Alan Sirap?<br />Last To Die has one of the best story setups I've everread. The Grisham-like writing--with a bit more wit--immediately draws you in and flows right along. It has no fluff or boring, weak spots. The 384 pages zip by like a 200-page thriller. I don't know that the payoff in the end is as strong as the build-up promises, but it's still an excellent and well-written story. Highly recommended. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE	2003-09-18
US	49664433	R1PDE5LXQGHJ1K	068480137X	705619047	D Day: June 6, 1944: The Climactic Battle of World War II	Books	5	4	7	N	N	Freedom's Cost	Stephen E. Ambrose's credentials as historian, researcher, and impeccable writer make him the right choice when it comes time to read a history of arguably the most momentous battle of all time. His rendering of D-Day, the June 6, 1944 Allied invasion of Nazi-occupied France at the beaches of Normandy, is simply excellent.<br />The book first provides some basic understanding of each side's situation in 1944. Preoccupied with the eastern front in Russia, Hitler knew that any invasion from the west had to be crushed at all cost, because Germany could not sustain a two-front war. He therefore devoted massive resources to the construction of the Atlantic Wall, a series of defenses along the French coast of the English Channel: razor wire, obstacles, mines, pillboxes, machine gun nests, tanks, mortars, and infantry. The Allies chose Eisenhower to lead their invasion of Europe. He believed this was an all-or-nothing proposition, and committed everything to it. He and his planners organized an amphibious assault of the beaches to deposit 175,000 men and materiel in France in one day. They knew going in that the operation had to succeed or an unprecedented disaster would result--including losing the war. With no way for the infantry to retreat off the beaches and return to the ships, or for the paratroopers and personnel-carrying gliders to climb back into the air, this was similar to Cortez burning his own ships and Grant flanking Vicksburg with no way for resupply. Survival depended solely on defeating the enemy. Thus the table was set for the largest do-or-die conflict in history.<br />Next, Ambrose reveals the planning and preparations required to pull off an attack the enemy knew was coming. He explains in detail the vehicles, weaponry, and troop assignments. He also clearly explains the successful attempts to maintain the element of surprise. Hitler knew they were coming, but expected them at Calais, not Normandy--and he didn't know when they would come.<br />The action begins with frustrating and nerve-wracking weather delays. Finally, taking advantage of a brief break in the weather, Ike gives the go-ahead. Thousands of ships cross the Channel. In the dark of night, paratroopers jump into France behind the lines. Gliders transport more troops to take key bridges. The Air Force strafes and bombs coastal installations in perhaps the largest air assault ever launched. Once within range, the Navy's big guns open up, trying to soften the German defenses. Then the small troop transports are launched toward various code-named and now-famous beaches, Utah, Sword, Omaha, Juno, and Gold.<br />From here Ambrose focuses almost exclusively on action at Omaha Beach, where not a single plane-delivered bomb has hit a target. This is where the Allies have the toughest going. Using the words of survivors themselves, he poignantly moves the reader through the hellish hours as the first waves of young men are mowed down by the merciless fire from the bluffs above them. <br />The book is fact-filled, yet easy to read. As the action intensifies, the non-fiction prose grows absolutely gripping. This is an unforgettable account that captures the terror, the carnage, the bravery, and--best of all--the sacrifice these young men made. Hurray. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE	2003-09-15
US	49664433	R3FY0R72Q9I6C4	1400050308	820650568	Treason: Liberal Treachery from the Cold War to the War on Terrorism	Books	5	4	9	N	N	Dusting off History	In \\"Treason,\\" without so much as five minutes of literary foreplay, Ann Coulter, the bold new voice of the conservative right, wades right into the most unlikely issue to stake a career on: McCarthyism. Thus begins a history lesson, one not taught in public schools or in the mass media. For fifty years, disgraced Republican Senator Joseph McCarthy has been so successfully vilified by the left that even the average conservative grants the excesses of \\"McCarthyism\\" to liberals. McCarthyism embodies the Inquisition-like, Nazi Final Solution-like purging of communists from positions of power in America in the late 1940s and early 1950s. But hold on. Coulter did some research, which she has proven to be quiet good at. It seems that Joe may not have been as bad as we thought, and that he may have been the early victim of \\"Borking,\\" that nasty political assassination style liberals save for otherwise well-meaning Americans such as Robert Bork, Ken Starr, Clarence Thomas, John Ashcroft, and various judges waiting in limbo for confirmation. It turns out that Joe was right; there were commies in the U.S. Government. Coulter may have you wondering why Joe isn't an American hero.<br />Coulter then carries the history lesson forward with a fresh view of the Alger Hiss affair, Nixon's presidency, the senile old Reagan's lucky win in the Cold War, and Bush's politically incorrect \\"axis of evil.\\" Her impressive documentation and arrow-splitting sagacity take the book far beyond liberals' claim of \\"political diatribe.\\" This book is meaty, thought provoking, and historically important. As a writer I'm primarily interested in an author's ability to convey messages in their prose. Coulter is cogent and entertaining at a high level. She is convincing.<br />Ironically, in reading through the 1-star reviews of Treason here on Amazon, we see the liberal minions again proving Coulter's point in her other bestselling book, Slander. Rather than debate her research and conclusions, they simplycall her an \\"ignorant witch,\\" \\"legally blonde,\\" \\"intellectually challenged,\\" \\"a disgusting woman,\\" etc. But with books knee-deep in footnotes like Coulter's Treason, name-calling is no longer enough to carry the argument. The left needs to grow up and leave their political debating style on the playground.<br />My only gripe is the choice of \\"Treason\\" for the title. This is a stretch. True treason--\\"the offense of attempting by overt acts to overthrow the government of the state to which the offender owes allegiance or to kill or personally injure the sovereign or his family\\"--may apply to Hiss and a few others, but to paint with broad stroke the entire liberal left, most of whom believe their cause is good and are as patriotic at heart as any, is an overreaching mistake that tends to detract from an otherwise fantastic book.	2003-08-13
US	49664433	R2U95SXVTPLHCL	019283374X	718203903	Alice's Adventures in Wonderland and Through the Looking-Glass: And What Alice Found There (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	The Importance of Illustrations	In Through The Looking Glass, Alice (of Wonderland fame) steps through her bedroom mirror and enters a fantastic world based loosely on a chess game, where living chess pieces and other bizarre characters act and speak in odd ways. This nineteenth century classic has been credited variously with being a complex mathematical puzzle, a dream, a cynical allegory on modern civilization, a drug-induced hallucination, or just a fanciful child's tale. I lean toward the latter. Whatever the truth, the book has stood the test of time, and continues to intrigue children even today. I highly recommend this imagination-stimulating story, but not without the pictures. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE.	2003-08-11
US	49664433	RVTVQ1YMAQ3EL	1576751678	578761329	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage: Secrets of Continually Developing a More Profitable Business Model	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Don't Embrace Change, Force It	The Ultimate Competitive Advantage is the most useful business book I've ever read. Many how-to-succeed business books focus on a single technique, philosophy, or management style. Often their claims are rooted more in opinion than in fact. The Competitive Advantage goes well beyond telling us that we should simply emulate Jack Welch as a means to profit nirvana. Mitchell and Coles conducted an exhaustive long-term study of dozens of successful companies across a broad spectrum of industries, looking for a common thread explaining their extraordinary performance. Is there something companies of all sizes and types can do to positively differentiate themselves from competitors and enhance sales, profits, and reputation? Yes, and Mitchell and Coles have isolated it. They distill it to its essence in The Ultimate Competitive Advantage.<br />In its simplest form, the advantage is the practice of identifying one's business model, and then intentionally changing it for the better--again and again in a never-ending process. If you don't do it, someone else will. But this isn't simply about improving the better mousetrap. This is about the broader and somewhat nebulous concept of business modeling, which they explain in great detail. Mitchell and Coles' intensive research reveals that the fastest growing companies in their control group revamped their business models on a continuous basis, sometimes yearly or biannually. They were not satisfied to \\"rest on their laurels\\" or milk a successful model to death. As a simplistic example, we've all heard the saw about being too busy chopping the tree to sharpen the axe. The advice in this book takes you beyond axe sharpening to whole new chopping models. How about opening tree-felling \\"camps\\" for wannabe lumberjacks? Students bring their own axe and pay you to \\"learn\\" the lumber industry while they produce your product. Costs plummet, profits soar, the community benefits. This book opens your mind to the infinite possibilities inyour own business.<br />Thoroughly researched, well written, up-beat, well intentioned, and heavy on specificity, The Ultimate Competitive Advantage is a high-utility business tool that managers can refer to year after year for ideas on keeping their models fresh and staying ahead of Brand X. Very highly recommended. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, COO of American Polywater Corp. ...	2003-07-21
US	49664433	R2XKCJ20AZAX9N	1400046610	957571830	Slander: Liberal Lies About the American Right	Books	5	13	23	N	N	New Conservative Diva	It's hard not to gush about Ann Coulter's \\"Slander.\\" The book takes the popular political non-fiction genre into new territory, one populated with research, facts, and dead-on analogies, not just hot-breathed opinion and self-righteous indignation, although there's plenty of that too. This fast-paced read is dripping with lucid thinking, crisp sentences, biting sarcasm, and sinus-clearing irony.<br />Liberals will hate it and conservatives will love it. The problem for the left is that the book is so well written that voters in the middle may actually be nudged right, or at least begin to view things in a new light that could slowly swing them that direction over time. <br />With one example quote after another, Slander focuses on the media's anti-right bias. Much of this is mild and unintentional--there is no vast left-wing conspiracy. But Coulter also points out a plethora of falsehoods and distortions that reach slanderous proportions. Probably the most valuable contribution to the historical record is her analysis of what really took place on election night 2000. It would be nice to see the left's counter to this, something fact-based to back up their claim that Bush \\"stole the election.\\"<br />Whatever one's political leanings, after reading Slander it'll be hard to read a newspaper or watch the television news without a dose of skepticism and a more critical eye. All in all, that's a good thing in a healthy democracy.	2003-07-17
US	49664433	R3PVP5OT9Q9VCM	0446611913	265598858	Up Country	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Thumbs Up	Up Country is the product of one of the best professional fiction writers of our time. The prose is flawless. The research is overwhelming. The characters are full and compelling. All the required plot elements are there. This is a 5-star slam dunk. But will you enjoy it?<br />Retired chief warrant officer Paul Brenner (of The General's Daughter fame) is lured back to active duty by his former commanding officer in the Army's Criminal Investigation Division to crack a 30-year-old murder case. During the Vietnam War, a letter written by a North Vietnamese soldier describing the murder of an American lieutenant by a captain is found on the dead body of the addressee, the Vietnamese soldier's brother, killed in action. Brenner is given only dribbles of information about why the letter only now comes forward and who the suspect captain is. His assignment is purportedly only to locate the letter's author in Vietnam--if alive--and gather what information is available. It is clear, however, that national security is at risk, requiring Brenner's special talents.<br />Upon entering communist Vietnam, Brenner immediately comes under the scrutiny of one Colonel Mang, a wily and worthy adversary. Brenner joins forces with expatriate Susan Weber, a predictably luscious businesswoman, and heads \\"up country\\" to locate the letter's author in a remote village and solve the mystery. Mang is, rightfully, suspicious and makes the going tough for the American pair and their (of course) blossoming romance.<br />Naturally, there is more to virtually every aspect of the story than at first glance. Who is Susan Weber, and why is she so  accommodating? Who is the murderer, why doesn't the army know his identity, and why is the case reopening now? What does Mang know or suspect? What is Brenner's true objective--and will he like it when he figures it out? DeMille's \\"Up Country\\" quickly evolves from a standard mystery novel to a sophisticated and well-written international spy thriller thatincludes one of the best and most thorough descriptions of a foreign country in fiction I've ever read.<br />Despite all this, the book may fail to entertain. The underlying plot--though excellently rendered--is rather pedestrian. Correct assumptions can easily be made early in the book about the murderer, Weber's role, and the case's sudden reemergence. Also, once up country, the story takes a hard turn away from plot development. DeMille devotes hundred of pages to a Michener-like essay on the history, culture, and present status of Vietnam. Vietnam vet Brenner's visit is meant to be a cathartic event, but is so overdone with what I'd oxymoronically call \\"gratuitous professionalism\\" that it becomes clear to the reader that the author himself is exorcising his own war demons. This is done so well, that I imagine most Vietnam vets will find \\"Up Country\\" to be the best book they've ever read. For others less interested in Vietnam, suspension of disbelief is interrupted and the geography lesson gets a bit long. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Big Ice	2003-07-16
US	49664433	R3J8SBL94NVB04	0743235355	730119057	Jarhead: A Marine's Chronicle of the Gulf War and Other Battles	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Eloquently Profane	Anthony Swofford's \\"Jarhead\\" is a cynical and swear-ridden memoir of a young marine's tour of duty in the 1991 Gulf War. This is an adult book about an immature youth becoming a man the Marine Corps way. The language may be a turn-off for some, but the book is written in Marine-speak, where hardly a sentence goes by without reference to bodily fluids or perverse acts. It has the feel of accuracy ... and a bit of melodrama. Swofford's style is fairly unique and it succeeds in communicating the images and emotions of his experience, though it does so at the expense of good decorum. Here's a fine example of his run-on and strangely poetic prose:<br />\\"I am a grunt, dressed up in fancy scout/sniper clothes; I am a grunt with limited vision. I don't care about a New World Order. I don't care about human rights violations in Kuwait City. Amnesty International, my ass. Rape them all, kill them all, sell their oil, pillage their gold, sell their children into prostitution. I don't care about the Flag and God and Country and Corps. I don't give a **** about oil and revenue and million barrels per day and U.S. jobs. I have a job. I'll walk the rest of my life. I'm a grunt. I'm supposed to walk and love it. I'm twenty years old and I was dumb enough to sign a contract and here I sit in the hairy armpit, swinging in the ball sack, slopping through the straddle trench of the world, and I can hear their bombs already, Mr. Times, I can hear their bombs and I am afraid.\\"<br />While in a literary sense \\"Jarhead\\" is a worthy and successful effort, Swofford's nonstop cynicism is depressing. I think his largely anti-war message is that his negative attitude is to be blamed on his Marine Corps and Gulf War experiences. But as he clearly shows, his \\"issues\\" were formed much earlier in life. And war or no war, if life were really as bleak as he portrays, we might as well all just lay down and die. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes...	2003-07-02
US	49664433	R1OKTTRD0MXZWT	0812550927	781459831	20,000 Leagues Under the Sea (Tor Classics)	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Classic Sci-Fi	This is Jules Verne at his best, creating the enigmatic character of Captain Nemo.<br />The setting is the mid-nineteenth century. Deadly and mysterious calamities continue to befall ocean-going vessels, with wild reports by survivors that the culprit is a sea monster large enough to ram and sink ships. French professor M. Aronnax finds himself aboard the Abraham Lincoln, a ship charged with finding and destroying the beast. Accompanying him is his loyal servant, Conseil. The ship succeeds in locating the leviathan, but it, too, falls victim to a deadly attack. Aronnax, Conseil, and a Canadian harpooner named Ned Land are the sole survivors--rescued by none other than the \\"monster\\" itself, which turns out not to be flesh and bone, but the world's largest and most technically advanced submarine.<br />They meet Captain Nemo, the owner, inventor, and sovereign leader of the flag-less ship, Nautilus. He explains that they're now his prisoners for life, though they will be treated well and are free to roam the ship. Thus begins an underwater tour of the planet, narrated by the fascinated Aronnax. With today's knowledge of the seas, some of the action is laughable, but at the time this was leading-edge science fiction. Verne's vision of submarine technology, the use of electricity, scuba operations, and various other things is uncanny and typical of great science fiction writers' ability to foretell the future. The ridiculous episodes include traversing an underwater tunnel beneath the Suez to the Mediterranean; a visit to Atlantis; and a trip to the South Pole under the ice, where they break through the surface for a look-see. This would be difficult, considering that the ice is more than a mile thick with a continent of solid rock below. But remember that when Verne wrote the book in 1869, Antarctica had not been explored and remained a virtual myth.<br />The enduring lure of 20,000 Leagues, though, is Verne's Captain Nemo. It takes the entire book (and then some) to learn who this genius Nemo really is. What horrible ordeal has produced such a cynical man, one driven to build the self-sustaining Nautilus, to swear off all contact with the \\"civilized\\" world, never to touch land again, and to ruthlessly and brutally defend himself against any perceived threat? At one glance we see a maniacal scientist worthy of a James Bond thriller. But at closer inspection, Verne has captured the timeless personification of angst over the errors and excesses of Man's interminable war against Nature and himself. Aspects of this same character can today be found in political and environmental activism throughout the world. Actually, it strikes a cord with us all; everyone wants at some time to build what today would amount to a spaceship and shove off from this screwed up planet, saying, \\"Adios, idiots. It's your mess now.\\" --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Big Ice.	2003-05-20
US	49664433	R2B0ZYKNP29QJL	0345422473	947191478	Gods and Generals: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	The Trilogy is Now Complete	In &quot;Gods and Generals&quot; Jeff Shaara follows up on his fabulous &quot;The Last Full Measure,&quot; filling in the trilogy of civil war novels that includes his father's classic &quot;The Killer Angels.&quot; Where &quot;The Killer Angels&quot; detailed the battle of Gettysburg and &quot;The Last Full Measure&quot; picks up Robert E. Lee's trail and follows him all the way to Appomattox, &quot;Gods and Generals&quot; chronicles some of the key Civil War events leading up to Gettysburg.<br />This is an odd way to complete a trilogy: write the first story last, the middle story first, and the last story second, but at least readers aren't required to read them in that order--and I suggest they don't. I recommend reading the stories in sequence with the war: &quot;Gods&quot; first, &quot;Angels&quot; second, and then the &quot;Measure.&quot; One reason is the simple logic of following the natural progression of the characters and the war. Another is that in that order the writing goes from good to great. Reading the books in reverse order can lead to letdown.<br />While &quot;Gods and Generals&quot; is an excellent primer to the subsequent volumes, it is not on the same literary level. Shaara introduces the main characters, Stonewall Jackson and Robert E. Lee, and a few key Union players in the war in the East, i.e., Hancock and Chamberlain, and follows their exploits from Bull Run I (Manassas) through the Peninsular Campaign, Jackson's 1862 Shenandoah campaign, Antietam (Sharpsburg), Fredericksburg, and Chancellorsville. He glosses over the early fights and builds tension by providing more detail of each subsequent battle, mostly won by the underdog but aggressive and brilliantly led rebels. Most of his specific battle-scene descriptions center on Fredericksburg and Chancellorsville, where Stonewall Jackson receives his fatal friendly-fire wound. But for those who loved &quot;Angels&quot; for its detailed account of the Gettysburg battle, this book will be unsatisfying; the individual battles do not receive enough attention. For those who were moved by the climactic drama and powerful evocative writing in &quot;Measure,&quot; this book will seem flat, uninspired, and aimless. On its own, the ending tends to fizzle out to nothing. Of course, it's not on its own, and was never intended to be. It is a strong foundation for one of the best historical war novel trilogies of all time. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD.	2003-05-06
US	49664433	R3VU44UHTJR2AH	019521692X	456103885	World Atlas of the Past: Modern Times Volume 4: 1815 to the Present (World Atlas of the Past, 4)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Great Historical Reference	The \\"Atlas of Past Times\\" found a permanent place on my coffee table. This book is absolutely loaded with illustrative maps, photos, and text. John Haywood has done to the pictorial record of world history what Kenneth C. Davis did for American history in his \\"Don't Know Much About History.\\"<br />Time after time over the years I've heard or read about a particular civilization, war, political upheaval, or religious movement, but was unclear as to the specific timeframe and geographic scope. It's one thing to read about boundaries in text, but Haywood lays it all out in numerous maps. Each map is color-coded and loaded with useful information. The legends are clear and concise. A perfect example of how I found the book useful was in my following the war in Iraq. I didn't want to read six textbooks to gain a better understanding of the region's history.  Haywood's book provides a fantastic visual overview: Mesopotamia, the Assyrians, the Babylonians, the Jews, the Arabs, the advance and subdivisions of Islam, the Kurds, the Turks, etc. The area has a long and convoluted history, which the maps really help place within grasp of the common man.<br />The accompanying text is only a cursory--but well written--examination of chronological world history, which is fine; it is titled and pitched as an \\"Atlas,\\" and therein lies its strength and attraction. I will refer to this book again and again. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE	2003-04-30
US	49664433	R2AL3X2ANP277D	0380712520	586173981	Don't Know Much About History: Everything You Need to Know About American History but Never Learned	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Something for Everyone	Don't Know Much About History is a wonderful concept for a non-fiction book. Instead of dissecting one historically significant event or personality and devoting 500 pages to explain it, Kenneth C. Davis writes just a few pages to cover each of the many momentous events in American History over the past 5,000 years.<br />Snobby critics can claim that the result is a book for dummies, a shallow glossing over of important topics--the &quot;CliffsNotes&quot; version of American Heritage. That may be, but the result also has tremendous value. Very few of us have more than an inch-deep understanding of even half of the history he covers. Clearly he couldn't discuss everything American, but he has chosen an excellent cross-section of influential events. Most of us have heard many of terms such as the Louisiana Purchase, Manifest Destiny, Separate but Equal, on and on, but would be hard pressed to come up with more than one sentence to accurately describe them. Davis's book helps us here. Some history books delve deeply into one subject, but miss the forest for the trees. Davis's book sees the whole forest of American history--at least the tops of the trees. And the fast-paced, short-topic nature of it holds the attention span of non-history-buff readers, making it accessible to the masses. <br />The downside of the book is that although Davis does a commendable job of disguising his own political leanings, he writes with a distinctly cynical voice, which begins to grate as the pages turn. By the book's end, it was simply annoying. The accuracy of his facts are tinged by his added analysis, which seems to lead readers toward the conclusion that American history is devoid of altruism, that virtually everything accomplished by America in the past 400 years was the unintentional byproduct of dark, ulterior motives, i.e., money, fame, conquest, etc., rather than in the simple quest for freedom, fairness, or virtue. The truth, of course, is somewhere in the middle. America is not, nor has it ever been, perfect. But it's better than a lot of the alternatives. I don't suggest that Davis is attempting to claim otherwise; I don't think he means to send that message, which is exactly why the book loses one star for unintended tone. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE	2003-04-16
US	49664433	R1IHUBVEVPSLZC	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Excellent	\\"A Darkness More Than Night\\" is a book that restores my waning interest in mystery fiction.  The plotting, pace, level of legal detail, and characterization are outstanding.  Michael Connelly writes with a gritty, no-nonsense style that makes no attempt at wit, pretense, or flourish.  The result is a classic hard-boiled detective tale of top quality.<br />The only problem with the book is that the story's premise starts out eerily similar to Thomas Harris' \\"Red Dragon,\\" in which Hannibal \\"The Cannibal\\" Lecter makes his debut (and which the movie \\"Manhunter\\" was based on).  An ex-FBI profiler (Terry McCaleb) with a medical condition (and a family that wants him to stay out of the sicko-hunting business) is approached by an ex-partner (Winston) for assistance in the bizarre, unsolved murder of ex-con Edward Gunn.  He takes the case, of course, straining his health and family relations.  But from there the story veers from Red Dragon and is quite unique and compelling.<br />McCaleb's analysis of the ritual-style murder scene uncovers hidden clues that connect the murder to 500-year-old paintings by Hieronymus Bosch, whose works depict his vision of hell and the sins of Man.  When links to the deceased and LA detective Harry Bosch are found, McCaleb narrows his focus.  Then he finds a print of one of these paintings in Bosch's apartment--and a possible motive for Gunn's murder.  The case, though strange, begins to look routine and all but solved.  But, of course, Connelly is only toying with the reader.<br />The plot is complicated by a seemingly separate high-profile murder case that Bosch is currently testifying at for the prosecution.  McCaleb must determine whether Bosch is the actual killer, or the target of an elaborate frame.  He must do so before Bosch's credibility is destroyed, ruining the prosecution's case.  And he'd better do it before he and a few others get killed for their efforts.  This is a marvelously twisty tale. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author ofBIG ICE.	2003-03-26
US	49664433	R345JKKKFFL6KU	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Tough Nut To Crack	When I describe Stephen Hawking's \\"The Universe In A Nutshell\\" as a tough nut to crack, it's not to criticize; rather, it's an acknowledgement of the shortcomings of my own puny brain to comprehend most of it.<br />Hawking opens the book with an explanation of why he wrote it. It turns out that he wasn't excited about a sequel to his popular \\"A Brief History of Time\\" (which I haven't yet read). But he decided that the first book was too difficult for the average layman to understand, and that this second book on the universal laws of physics would solve that.<br />Boy, that first book must be really deep. <br />Despite the fact that much of Hawking's book is over my head, I enjoyed it very much. Reading the book makes it clear that you are in the presence of an incredible intellect. He visualizes things that the rest of never even conceived of and still can't grasp after thorough explanation. But he makes it fun trying. It's fascinating to hear this advanced human's take on the nature on time, space, and matter in the universe; the future evolution of Man; the probability of alien intelligence and time travel; and other heady questions.<br />And surprisingly the book is no dry tome on equations and egghead-speak. Hawking writes with great wit and salts the heavy topics with enough lighter fair (i.e., he's a Star Trek fan, and Einstein married his cousin) to keep the pages turning. This is one I will read again. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Big Ice.	2003-02-17
US	49664433	R1YLF48F2977NJ	0671725068	307755904	002: Nixon, Vol. 2: The Triumph of a Politician 1962-1972	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Character Matters	As usual, Stephen E. Ambrose is flawless in this middle edition of the Nixon trilogy. The book is quite long and detailed to a fault. The detail includes huge quantities of actual quotes, painting a picture of Nixon about as clear as one can get on any man.<br />The picture I got was of a man not well suited for the presidency. Intelligent, clever, creative, bold, knowledgeable on world affairs, yes. But he also had character flaws. Over-sensitive almost to the point of paranoia, Nixon was driven by an obsession to be President more than the desire to be presidential. His statement in the later David Frost interview that, \\"If the President does it, it's not illegal,\\" is very telling. The ends justified the means. He had the ability to rank goals above consequences, and almost everything he did was for the acquisition or preservation of political power.<br />The best example is Vietnam. He took four years to end a war he knew early on could not be won. His delays were to search for ways to avoid being the first American President to lose a war, and to prevent the staining of American honor. Both of which would have cost Nixon reelection in 1972. Ambrose makes the point that half the names on the Vietnam War Memorial are from the period of Nixon's futile attempts to foil Hanoi and fool America. People should never have to die to protect a politician's legacy.<br />I see Nixon and Clinton, representing both political parties, as two good examples of why character matters when we vote. For some reason, the presidency attracts extreme or narcissistic personalities whose motivations are more for glory than good. After reading Ambrose's book, the simple question, \\"Why does this person want to be president?\\" will rank higher in my mind.<br />Another eye-opener in the book was the lesson in political science. Nixon was neither an appealing candidate, nor a rallying ideologue. He scraped his way to the top because he was the consummate partisan politician. Ambrose shows a glimpse of the American political system's underbelly: maneuvering, manipulating, prevaricating, waffling, and backstabbing. He makes it easy to forget that despite the warts, our republican democracy is still the best system in the world.<br />The irony and enigma of Nixon is that he also opened up China, warmed the Cold War with the Soviets, began nuclear disarmament, and other worthy and statesman-like accomplishments. The book, like Nixon himself, will mean different things to different people. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE	2003-01-29
US	49664433	R1W0QRWG7TUD19	0684837188	301810439	Lost Discoveries : The Ancient Roots of Modern Science--from the Babylonians to the Maya	Books	4	76	90	N	N	Trivia Mother Lode	In \\"Lost Discoveries,\\" Dick Teresi sets out to prove (and largely succeeds) that many of our science discoveries, previously attributed to Hellenic and other white-European civilizations, were actually preceded by--or flat out ripped off from--non-white, non-Western types, such as the Chinese, Sumerians, Babylonians, Mesoamericans, Africans, Indians, etc. He selects several general areas of scientific endeavor--mathematics, astronomy, cosmology, geology, and mechanical invention--and shows examples from each of how Man's understanding of the laws of the universe is much older than we think. And he names names. The book ends up being a fantastic compendium of science knowledge, with enough interesting trivia to keep the average dinner-party know-it-all armed for a lifetime.<br />What Teresi explains is that claiming Copernicus was the first to hypothesize that Earth orbits the Sun is like claiming that Columbus was the first to discover America. That ignores the natives, the Mesoamericans, the Vikings, and probably a few more. The same can apparently be said about who decided Earth was round, who invented paper, and on and on. There were plenty of smart thinkers in older times, and their discoveries have been \\"lost\\" or ignored for a variety of reasons. These, too, Teresi tries to detail.<br />Part of Teresi's problem is deciding how to differentiate between a notion and scientific proof. A 3,000-B.C. barbarian looking out across the ocean, noting its curvature, and deducing that Earth is round is not the same as Columbus sailing three ships out there and not falling off. Teresi really begins to stretch matters in favor of the ancients when he drags out their cosmic mythologies and tries to claim its early quantum physics.<br />A minor annoyance is that the book's premise would have been better if discoveries were traced back to their true origin without regard to race. Show the evidence and the links, and let the chips fall where they may. Teresi patronizes \\"non-white, non-western\\" types by trying to validate their heritage; and jumps on the PC bandwagon as he insults European descendents by constantly reaching for the conclusion that old dead white guys are never as smart as we're led to believe. As if it matters. He even hints that due credit for non-white discoveries may have been suppressed over the centuries by a vast conspiracy fueled by racial prejudice. This book would have been better if he'd just left Rodney King out of it. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-12-19
US	49664433	RVVC89DO688AK	044922113X	883582681	Knockdown	Books	4	15	17	N	N	Can't Knock It.	Anyone who loves horses and can read should take on at least one Dick Francis mystery novel. Francis is perhaps the world's most prolific (and best?) writer on fictional horse-related topics. Each of his mysteries revolves around some aspect of horses: breeding, racing, veterinary, trading, etc. He uses his fictional plots to impart his vast equine knowledge to readers in an enjoyable way. And Knockdown is as good an example as any.<br />In Knockdown, street-wise Jonah Dereham is an independent and honorable bloodstock agent (British terminology for horse trader), a profession not known for ethical practices. Dereham learned his horse knowledge in his prior career as a jockey, and is now hired by rich American woman, Kerry Sanders to buy a horse at auction. In the parking lot after their successful bid, two thugs oddly demand that the horse now be sold to them at a higher price--and then enforce their demand by clubbing Jonah on the head, the first in a series of knockdowns to come.<br />The mystery is on. What is so special about this horse? Why not buy the horse in the auction instead of extorting it from the new owners just minutes later? Who is this Kerry Sanders and who was the horse really for?<br />Before he unravels the mess, Dereham suffers thru harassment, arson, threats to his alcoholic brother, Crispin, and more violent knockdowns. He meets the love interest, air traffic controller Sophie Randolph, when his mysteriously loose horse dashes across the highway, causing her to crash her car. Jonah tries to make things right for Sophie, but she ends up doing as much for him: once even setting his chronically dislocating shoulder after yet another encounter with the bad guys. Knockdown is rigid formula fiction that works. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-12-05
US	49664433	R1ZOKHBEJZ1V77	0375757295	569473707	Persuasion (Modern Library Classics)	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Weak Persuasion	As a fan of Jane Austen and one who ranks \\"Pride and Prejudice\\" among the great literary accomplishments of the millennium, it disappoints me to rate \\"Persuasion\\" as a ho-hum novel. Unfortunately, the book fulfils the expectations of a two-hundred-year-old romance novel from Old England: dull.<br />The book has a strong and compelling intro. Anne Elliot is one of three daughters of widower Sir Walter Elliot, a vain but financially challenged baronet whose daughters have reached marrying age. As a young lady, Anne had a romance with a certain Captain Wentworth, but this relationship breaks up for reasons that are dribbled out over the course of the book, and Wentworth goes off with the Navy for many years. The story line then wanders off in no apparent direction for a couple of hundred pages as we are introduced to other characters and led thru events with unclear purpose or relevance. But Wentworth reappears on the scene and slowly the plot evolves. Austen tries to persuade us to keep reading with mild intrigue over the Elliot estate, conniving cousins, convoluted love triangles, and the ultimate question: will Anne and the Captain reignited their romance?<br />Although Anne Elliot is a strong and likable character, she seems to do little to advance her own cause. Things just seem to happen to her. While Austen's sentence-by-sentence prose is as beautiful and lyrical as ever, she does an insufficient job in the book's middle of persuading contemporary readers, who prefer faster-paced fiction, to brave the huge passages of wordy exposition and press on to the end. Rabid Austen fans, readers of romance novels, and lovers of classic literature will undoubtedly appreciate Persuasion, but I hesitate to recommend it as an introduction to Jane Austen. I'm afraid that if this were her only novel, she'd have been lost to the ages. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-12-04
US	49664433	R3I44C7D9A83MP	0423874209	67748832	History of Rome from 753 B.C. to 410 A.C.	Books	5	10	10	N	N	An Incredible Accomplishment	The sheer scope of Cyril Robinson's effort in &quot;History of Rome&quot; is breathtaking. How one person can know so much detail about such a huge topic is almost beyond comprehension. And Robinson doesn't just &quot;know&quot; it; he understands the political and cultural complexities and their implications for the two thousand years of civilization that followed.<br />He manages to sum up twelve hundred years of Roman development, domination, and decline in one book, albeit a large and daunting one. Especially good is his insightful epilogue, where he supplies a manageable number of general conclusions that help the reader assimilate the massive quantity of names, dates, events, and intrigues into a usable and more-than-cursory understanding of the Roman Empire. An example is that while earlier Hellenic society gave us art, science, literature, and philosophy, Rome gave us the incredible leverage power of organization and workable governmental structure: the foundations of democracy (and plenty of examples of how to screw it up). One is not likely to grasp all the details in this book by reading it only once.<br />I preferred Robinson's History of Rome to his earlier History of Greece. Perhaps it is due to the amount of information available on this later society, but the Rome book is bigger, more thorough, better organized, and generally more readable. You can't go wrong with this one. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-12-03
US	49664433	R1AWATTEUU7BCG	1592810160	696131341	Mercury Rapids	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Light and Witty.	Mercury Rapids makes a good beach read for a short vacation. Author Steven Johnson has a witty, unique voice, which plays well with his irreverent protagonist, astronomer Bill Lewis. The prose flows fast and easy with a consistent cadence and enough action and mystery to keep the pages turning. Lewis's comebacks elicit chuckles at a one-per-page rate. This is almost a space comedy.<br />And it's a good thing that Johnson wrote a funny book, because Isaac Asimov this is not. The plot--alien Greys are abducting humans for experimentation and eventual extinction, with a few embellishments--covers no new ground. Rod Serling was doing this stuff fifty years ago.<br />The tale starts out strong. Lewis is a UFO skeptic who likes to have fun debunking believers--at the expense of his ufologist ex-wife. But then he himself is abducted, incised, and later visited by the ubiquitous Men in Black, who warn him to keep his mouth shut. Nothing new, but so far so good. Unfortunately, suspension of disbelief collapses as the MIB conspiracy expands to include virtually everyone in British and American government and military. Then, oddly, the protagonist and his now-friendly-again ex-wife get all sentimental and decide to help some captured aliens (who've vowed to destroy Earth) escape. This nice gesture alone seems to change the minds of the Greys who have traversed millions of light years of space in their black triangles to carry out God's will: destroy their errant genetic experiment, mankind. This is \\"Can't we all just get along?\\" on a galactic scale.<br />If you can get past the lukewarm plot and any expectations of mind-bending conspiracies, Mercury Rapids is a fun and worthwhile read. Steven Johnson is a writer with tons of potential. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2002-12-02
US	49664433	R201IFYUUBG7EP	1929718071	999010138	A History of Greece	Books	4	6	8	N	N	High Brow to a Fault	Cyril Robinson was clearly a gifted and scholarly historian with a prodigious vocabulary and complete command of the English language. Unfortunately, not all the world's readers share those abilities. The result is a rambling tome targeted at academicians, not the masses. Not that there's anything inherently wrong with that, but why do it? Greek history is a rich tale full of important lessons on the development of our own democratic society. It should be available to the layman. Robinson, however, chose to saturate his bloated prose with an overabundance of &quot;henceforths&quot; and &quot;hithertos,&quot; using long multi-clause sentences that force the reader to reread passage after passage in a constant struggle for comprehension and retention. The sheer number of dates and difficult names of people and places are hard enough to follow without adding puffy, upper-crust verbiage.<br />Well-educated readers--especially those with some background knowledge of the subject, will probably enjoy this impressive book. But for the average reader just looking to tone up on the basics of Greek history, this is going to be a yawner. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-11-11
US	49664433	RYMIAO9ZLBSG7	0553277472	340684550	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance: An Inquiry into Values	Books	4	11	15	N	N	A Literary Acid Trip	Zen and the Art of Motorcycle Maintenance (which may be the best title of all time) is a bizarre and insightful journey into ... well, psychology, motorcycle maintenance, and pretty much everything in between. This unique book is impossible to classify. Its long-winded tangents into Zen philosophy range from inane navel contemplation to mystical mountaintop profundity.<br />The book begins with a first-person narrative of an unnamed man taking a motorcycle trip from Minnesota to the Northwest with his young son, Chris, and another married couple. The author's description of biking absolutely nails its allure, frustrations, and rewards. His book is required reading for all serious bikers (those who can read, that is). As the journey progresses, the narrator expounds upon the art of motorcycle maintenance and why some shy away from it, dividing riders into two groups: romantic and classic thinkers. Then he spends 100 pages splitting the romantic/classic atom. Surprisingly, the result is not some pot-smoker's rambling, but a sophisticated and well-informed essay on the human condition.<br />The book continues with alternating passages of narrator lucidity--as he describes their mundane travels through America's backwaters--and more deep dives into topics most of us have never invested two seconds pondering: the definition of technology, quality, duality, and Aristotelian reasoning. But Pirsig slowly introduces a third component to the story: a shadowy character named Phaedrus. A mystery develops for the reader. Is Phaedrus a real person? Or a figment of the narrator's imagination? His alter ego? Is the deep-thinking narrator schizophrenic? Or descending into madness?<br />Zen and the Art is at times maddening with its hour-long dissections of trivial matters, but will also have you seeing many things in a whole new light. Apparently, almost nothing in life is as it seems. In the end, it's a &quot;quality&quot; book (you'll have to read the book to understand this). I might have enjoyed it more as a younger, more idealistic person, but it's well worth the time investment at any age. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-11-06
US	49664433	R13N5KELEAWKCL	0743223136	747139631	John Adams	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Never More Timely.	If I were a high school or college teacher of history or social studies, I'd adopt David McCullough's \\"John Adams\\" as my classroom textbook. Part biography, part historical treatise, part memoir, the book is wholly wonderful. As a reasonably well-read forty-something product of the public school system, I was surprised to learn from reading this book more about Adams, the American Revolution, and the American ideal than from all my previous experiences combined. It's that good. McCullough relies heavily on the vast reserve of Adams' own writings to so thoroughly characterize a man who's been dead for nearly two hundred years, that you feel you know him as a best friend by book's end.<br />And what a man he was. Absolutely devoted to reading and education, and dedicated to the pursuit of freedom and liberty, Adams may be more responsible for the American Revolution, the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, the U.S. Navy, our \\"separation of powers\\" system of government, and the very set of American values that has sustained us for two centuries, than any other man who ever lived. His wisdom, foresight, and study of world history led him to predict in his early twenties that world domination by France and England could soon end, and that America's thirteen disparate colonies could unite and rise to a greatness rivaling that of ancient Greece or Rome. As an old man, more than forty years before the Civil War, he hypothesized that the issue of slavery could one day rend the nation apart. This was a man of vision.<br />It is hard to read McCullough's laudable prose and Adams' letters concerning the development of America without rethinking the whole question of America's worth--and patriotism in general. Virtually every country in the world observes some \\"independence day\\" or other celebration of nationalism. But so many of them are based on not-so-worthy events: coups, political intrigue, despotism, genocide, etc. McCullough's Adams helps us to see the AmericanRevolution as a watershed event in human civilization, where a relatively small group of incredibly intelligent statesmen came together to pursue an ideal. They were--for the most part--motivated not by partisanship or personal gain, but by the simple desire to do good. John Adams epitomizes the stereotypical white-wigged Founding Father who dared to believe that the granting of rights flowed from people to government, not the reverse.<br />I was equally satisfied to learn Adams' position on slavery. He was against it, and never owned a slave, unlike his on-again-off-again political friend/foe, Thomas Jefferson. Although he lost this argument, he felt that all men were obviously NOT created equal. They come in different colors, sizes, abilities, and temperaments. But they all deserve EQUAL RIGHTS. This is a man all Americans can revere. Thank you, David McCullough, for bringing him alive once again. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-10-15
US	49664433	R237S6UOUV5AL8	0595227201	976245604	To Support And Defend	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Deserves Support.	James Burau's debut novel is clearly the first of more to come. This well-written political thriller is reminiscent of the works of Vince Flynn, another Minnesota author of political intrigue.<br />The book's opening scene has two private investigators eavesdropping on a clandestine meeting in a Washington D.C. park between a high-ranking U.S. Government official and a shadowy figure known as \\"Kane.\\" What they overhear and record on audiotape is shocking: a plot to assassinate President Sorenson. Unfortunately, the tape has special encryption, making it difficult for officials to decipher later. And the two investigators can offer no testimony themselves, as Kane puts a bullet through each of their heads.<br />While making an outdoor speech in his home state of Minnesota, Sorenson is shot and mortally wounded, falling from the podium directly into the lap of average citizen Jake Tyler. Before expiring, the President whispers something to Jake. Soon Tyler, too, finds himself a target of the assassins.<br />But who is Kane and for whom does he work? And was the murdered man delivering the speech in Minnesota really President Sorenson, or an imposter? Burau takes us on a fast-paced and somewhat far-fetched-but-entertaining ride through the inner workings of government where the motivations and ambitions of the politicians we love to hate threaten lives and democracy itself, and where only an unwitting Minnesotan named Jake Tyler and a handful of FBI, Secret Service, and D.C. cops--all of whom are sworn to support and defend--work together to save the day.<br />The book is both a shining example of the \\"sleeper\\" potential of small presses, and their shortcomings. In the small press world, neither the author nor publisher can financially justify a professional edit. And it shows in To Support And Defend. There are literally dozens of glaring typos: missing words, capitalization, and punctuation. But even that irritation does not detract from the inherent quality of the story and the future prospects of the storyteller himself. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-10-09
US	49664433	R33Q1VYC2M32HW	0312289871	970494196	Robert Ludlum's The Paris Option: A Covert-One Novel (Ludlum, Robert, Covert-One Novels.)	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Failure Not Optional	In Paris, a bomb destroys the laboratory of a world-renowned scientist leading the pack in development of a DNA computer. He, too, is feared killed in the blast. This \\"molecular\\" computer--if it existed--would essentially use DNA material to replace silicon chips. Like life forms, it would not only perform calculations, but would also \\"learn\\" from them--and quickly. Such a device could be used to hack into any computer system, satellite, weapons system, or other electronic gadget on earth. All communications and power systems could be shut down. Nukes could be directed to and from anywhere at will. In the wrong hands this would not be good.<br />But there's no reason to believe that the computer even existed ... until the lights and phones start going out in the U.S.  Enter John Smith, who belongs to a top-secret U.S. Government agency known as Covert One. It's so secret that not even the CIA, FBI, British Intelligence, or our enemies know of its existence. John Smith--a fictional character somewhere between Fleming's invincible James Bond and Clancy's vulnerable Jack Ryan--gets embroiled in a complex globe-hopping cat and mouse game in which Covert One variously competes and cooperates with the CIA and MI6 to crack gangs of resurgent Basques, militant Muslims, and Bonaparte-wannabe Frenchmen as time ticks down to nuclear catastrophe.<br />Ludlum is a worldly, professional writer. The prose is flawless. The plot is thick and rich and twisty. His research and knowledge of cultural and international affairs is impressive. Yet none of that prevents this book from being too formulaic and chock full of stereotypes and cardboard characters. For readers who never tire of suspenseful spy thrillers, this is the mother lode. For those who find 400 pages of sneaking around and narrow escapes tedious, you might want to avoid The Paris Option. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-10-07
US	49664433	R3U83BCQIVKOG3	1930486332	280813021	Bound to Die	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bound to Succeed	Brian Lutterman's mystery novel \\"Bound To Die\\" is a great debut from an author we'll hear from again. There is no mystery in why it was chosen as the 3rd annual \\"Mystery Novel Award\\" winner by Salvo Press, which touts itself as the \\"microbrew of the industry.\\" Books like Bound To Die will quickly elevate Salvo to Samuel Adams status.<br />Tori McMillan is a likable and capable protagonist. Recently widowed and currently unemployed, Tori witnesses her best friend Cindy (presumably still despondent over the disappearance of her son seven years earlier), wade into a crowded outdoor gathering and shoot four people dead. Cindy then disappears in an apparent bridge-jump suicide. Ironically, the local detective and FBI agent assigned to investigate also worked the case of Cindy's missing son. No answers are forthcoming, though. It appears to be an open-and-shut, woman-snaps-and-commits-random-multiple-murder-suicide case. But Tori feels differently. She suspects that the four victims were somehow linked and chosen specifically, that it might have to do with the missing boy, and that Cindy might not really be dead. Her curiosity uncovers some important clues--and drags her unwittingly into the crosshairs of a bizarre group of cultish conspirators called The Bound, which has insinuated itself into the very fabric of America, including the White House. But who are these people? What are their goals? And what do they have to do with Cindy and her missing son? Tori is bound and determined to unravel this mystery ... and she'd better do it before they kill her.<br />Lutterman's prose flows with an ease that's uncommon in first novels. There's none of the pretentious, trying-too-hard, look-at-me-I'm-a-writer narrative that plagues so many otherwise good stories. The unpredictable plot is thick with just enough twists and surprises to satisfy without numbing the mind. Pay attention, Hollywood, this might make a good movie. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-09-11
US	49664433	R1ILGCXEZ1RAZU	0446609900	435907187	26 Nights: A Sexual Adventure (Letters to Penthouse)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Sophomoric Fantasy	But still entertaining to a degree. On the plus side, \\"26 Nights\\" flows with a wit and creativity that keeps the pages turning. The intrigue is in how the authors will get their protagonist--the rich, good-looking, charming, and apparently well-endowed Steven Walling--to find and bed twenty-six women whose first, legal names follow the alphabet sequentially from A to Z. And to do it without boring the reader to tears with redundancy. To their credit, they actually pull this off. There was obvious thought applied to plotting. The various twists evoke a grin or two along the way.<br />On the negative side, however, this is a far cry from classic erotica such as \\"Fanny Hill.\\" Walling's bet with his assistant is essentially a gimmick, an excuse to write twenty-six sex scenes. Such a stilted premise leans more toward porn than erotica. Yet the actual sex isn't explicit enough for porn lovers. So the writing falls short of either target. While technically well written and edited, 26 Nights is a stylistic nightmare. An overabundance of adverbs, adjectives, and unrealistic big-word dialogue makes the prose sound like what a first-year English major thinks writing is supposed to sound like. Since that's likely their intended target, maybe this is the result of marketing genius.<br />For the average open-minded adult looking for a light change of pace in their reading, 26 Nights might entertain and certainly won't hurt. But I pity the fourteen-year-old boy who gets hold of this book and believes it represents sexual reality. All the women are beautiful, passionate, insatiable, and easy. There are no children, diseases, condoms, or consequences--and marriage doesn't matter. Walling has more trouble fending off horny women who want to copulate out of alphabetical order, than he does locating willing participants. Maybe I missed the boat, but in my experience it ain't that easy, kid.	2002-08-14
US	49664433	R2NGMX5K4EBRVU	097009731X	789350261	Over the Edge:  Death in Grand Canyon	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Respect The Canyon	I haven't been to the Canyon yet, but it's on my list of destinations to make in my lifetime. After reading \\"Over the Edge: Death in Grand Canyon\\" I'll know to be careful when I get there. I was unaware that the place is so hazardous--other than the obvious, that a fall off the edge is likely fatal. I read the book for the reason I assume the authors (and certainly the publisher) expect people to read it: morbid curiosity. And I suspected that was going to be the intellectual depth of their work. I was wrong.<br />The book is not highbrow literature by any stretch, but there is more research invested than I expected. The writers, Michael Ghiglieri and Thomas Myers, both experienced canyoneers, exert maximum effort to dissect the statistics and draw conclusions about the causes of death and what steps individuals and/or regulatory agencies might do to prevent more. This level of detail may be a turnoff to some readers, but I found it interesting and useful.<br />The authors can rest assured they've written an entertaining book that, through its popularity, might even help prevent an unnecessary death someday. ...	2002-07-31
US	49664433	R2O7SU1KM145JN	0440236673	376574359	The Brethren	Books	3	3	3	N	N	Big Buildup ... Big Letdown	Patrick O'Kelley states in his review that, \\"In the end, The Brethren marks a transition in Grisham's career toward a more thoughtful narrative style with less interest in the big-payoff blockbuster ending.\\" That's an understatement that masks the basic flaw in Grisham's otherwise fine book: the ending stinks.<br />The entire premise--three imprisoned judges conspiring to blackmail rich, closeted gays and ensnaring the leading Presidential candidate who's a puppet of the CIA trying to forestall Russian neo-militarism--is a bit far-fetched ... until you remember the Clinton era. But Grisham weaves the unconnected story threads together in a growing mystery that is both interesting and well written. The setup is for a surprise ending, a bit of action, or at least an extra twist or two. But we get nothing. The story just peters out. I had a growing appreciation for Grisham's creativity and plotting ability as the book progressed, but closed it disappointed.<br />Rabid Grisham fans may appreciate it, but first-timers may enjoy one of his earlier books better. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-07-30
US	49664433	R2G2ZN7ZHIB04M	0060508094	846988628	Into the Mirror: The Life of Master Spy Robert P. Hanssen	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Revenge of the Nerds	Into the Mirror is deceptively good. My early impression was negative. The choice of fictionalizing the tale was odd, in my opinion. The dialogue was stilted, nerdy, Father-Knows-Bestish. But as I persevered through the book, I finally understood what the author was doing--speaking as Hanssen spoke--and began to appreciate it. In the end, the story resonates strongly.<br />It's helpful to know what the book isn't before you read it. It is not a detailed analysis of the specific criminal activities of Robert P. Hanssen, master spy. You won't learn the nitty-gritty on what secrets were passed to whom and when. Instead, Into the Mirror is a glimpse into the psyche of Hanssen himself; how he grew up; how he thought; how he wound up as a spy.<br />Part of the frustration in reading the book was that fictional tales generally require a likeable central character. Hanssen is not, and Schiller--properly--makes no apparent attempt to make him so. Once the reader accepts the notion that the protagonist is a weird, perverted traitor with few redeeming qualities, the reading gets easier.<br />The fascinating aspect of the story is that the trail leading Hanssen to spy for the Soviets and Russians against the U.S. wasn't littered with the kind of political travesties one would expect. Hanssen wasn't the victim of capitalism gone bad, or Rodney Kingesque mistreatment. His parents weren't ultra-liberals, communists, anti-American, or even particularly political. His father, though overbearing and mildly abusive, was a big-city cop. Hanssen was a converted Catholic who appeared to love his country and excel at his job. He was just your average schlep with a money management problem. This led to his first sale of classified secrets for cash, which quickly led to a near-clinical compulsion to spy for the pure excitement of it.<br />Into the Mirror reveals a strange man with unquenchable and unsavory sexual tendencies (allowing his best friend to secretly watch him make love to Mrs. Hanssen), and a twisted value system that somehow allowed espionage (which he knew led to the deaths of several men) to coexist with Catholicism. Oddly, we see a man who, but for an errant fork in life's road, could have easily been a patriot and contributing FBI agent. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.anssen), and a twisted value system that somehow allowed espionage (which he knew led to the deaths of several men) to coexist with Catholicism. Oddly, we see a man who, but for an errant fork in life's road, could have easily been a patriot and contributing FBI agent. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-07-11
US	49664433	R2GLIUFBRK4XCX	0425170411	281434626	Lindbergh	Books	5	5	5	N	N	An American Patriot	Virtually everyone in America is aware of Charles Lindbergh's record-breaking solo flight across the Atlantic in the Spirit of St. Louis and the kidnapping of his first-born child, which came to be known as the \\"Crime of the Century.\\" Those two events alone justify the writing and reading of his biography. But, as I learned in Berg's incredibly well-documented and well-written book, there is so much more to the story and the man.<br />I was reminded as I read the book of the cheesy sci-fi TV show from the 1960s called \\"The Time Tunnel.\\" Its premise was that scientists had created a time machine into which two heroes climbed each week, invariably arriving against all odds smack dab in the middle of some historically important time and place. This was the story of Lindbergh's life. He was there to assist Goddard in rocket science. He was there when Leaky was about to rock the world of anthropology. He was there to witness the 1936 Berlin Olympics. He was there to help General MacArthur retake the Philippines. He was there as a 40-year-old civilian to fly multiple combat missions in the South Pacific, including shooting down a Japanese Zero. The list goes on and on. The scope of Lindbergh's travels and accomplishments is simply astounding.<br />Berg also does a masterful job of presenting the facts behind Lindbergh's controversial side, the charge by some that he was a Nazi sympathizer and/or anti-Semite. While he was as human as the rest of us and may have had some prejudices, his stand against American intervention in World War II was deeply rooted in his fear that war with Germany would weaken the West and allow the real evil--the Communists in Soviet Russia--to prevail. When his isolationism cause failed and the fighting began, no man tried harder to participate and serve his country than Charles Lindbergh.<br />Lindbergh epitomizes the American hero: the quiet, unassuming farm boy who shocks the world with his risky, Spartan transatlantic flight; who handles the ensuing, unprecedented media storm with grace; who leads a life of virtue and clean living, devoted to the advancement of science, country, and mankind; who stands up for what he feels is right, speaking it eloquently and never wavering; who ultimately achieves the rank of General and wins the Pulitzer Prize and Medal of Honor. Berg reveals the man as clearly as can be done, warts and all. This is great literature. --Christopher B. Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-06-07
US	49664433	RDDDV12VMS2BL	0671024256	44310359	On Writing: A Memoir of the Craft	Books	4	2	4	N	N	Useful but Non-essential	On Writing has two appeals. One as a memoir of Stephen King's life, and the other as a fiction writing guide for aspiring authors. The former will be well received by rabid King fans. Desperate King wannabes will covet the latter. Both groups will be satisfied.<br />I was ambivalent about Stephen King's life and writing before reading the book. It's not one I would have chosen; it was a gift. I remain ambivalent about King's life after reading it. The tale he tells is done well enough, but I found little in its content to stimulate me. This is obviously subjective. As one of the world's most successful authors, working his way from poverty to fame and fortune, he has as much right to an autobiography as anyone.<br />As a published author at the other end of the success spectrum, I found the book's guide portion more compelling. I couldn't identify any unique trick or piece of advice, but his perspective on matters is materially beneficial to writers trying to break into the trade. He deals heavily with expectations, work habits, motivation, and many of the conventions of good writing. Although much of it is rehash from other how-to books, he does a fine job with it, offering numerous examples from his own popular books and experiences. Developing writers just can't get too much of this stuff.<br />Surprisingly, there were a few minor typos in the book, and I disagree with his assessment that it's fairly easy to land an agent if your writing is good. My guess is that it has been a long time since King has had to worry about that. Getting an agent is impossible with bad to mediocre writing and very, very difficult even with good writing. \\"On Writing\\" won't replace essential tools such as Strunk & White's or The Gregg Reference Manual, but it has definite value. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-04-23
US	49664433	R3HAY90G9BK81A	0679722769	705442339	Ulysses	Books	2	11	29	N	N	Huh?	... The critics rave about Ulysses. Many readers who've slogged all the way through proclaim it to be the greatest book of the 20th Century. Put me in the camp of those who thinks it's a pile of gibberish.<br />It's the only book I've ever read that still had me scratching my head after three chapters. Is it a novel? A series of unrelated short stories? A poem? Apparently, only intellectuals can tell.<br />I was taught that writing is the process of communicating with readers. This book fails miserably at that. I honestly can't summarize the plot. I didn't understand it. Maybe I'm stupid, but I think the fact that Joyce repeatedly breaks into long stretches of French and Latin and his own made-up words--none of which I understand--has something to do with it.<br />I give the book two stars because of Joyce's obvious mastery of vocabulary, and because maybe I'm wrong. Maybe I'm too ignorant to comprehend the genius. But I doubt it. To me, reading enjoyment shouldn't be this hard. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-04-15
US	49664433	R285403NVB4RWT	0140390464	474714897	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn: Revised Edition (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Deserving of all Credit	The Adventures of Huckleberry Finn is to Twain's prequel, The Adventures of Tom Sawyer, what the Ring Trilogy is to Tolkien's The Hobbit. In each case the author progressed from noteworthy effort to masterpiece. Huck Finn is a work of art. The funny thing is, he did it by breaking several of the \\"rules\\" in today's literature.<br />Nowadays, aspiring writers are admonished to avoid writing dialect. According to the experts, it has all been done before and done well. They're talking about Huck Finn. Twain's book is a study in American rural dialect between the central and southern states in the nineteenth century. It is so dead-on and hilarious that you can't help but be drawn into the story.<br />Another no-no he commits by today's standards is the preposterous coincidence. When Huck travels a thousand miles down river by raft only to show up weeks later and totally by coincidence at the home of his friend Tom Sawyer's Aunt Sally, it's beyond belief. Of course, the rest of the story is so good and well knitted that we don't particularly care, but my reaction was not \\"Aha!\\" but rather \\"Oh no!\\" Cheap plotting tricks have fallen from favor over the past 150 years.<br />At the heart of the book's greatness, though, is characterization. Huck Finn is one of the most enduringly likable literary characters of all time, the classic unlikely hero. Tom Sawyer is a close second. And yet they are so different. Their words and actions may have surprised us chapter after chapter, but they always stayed true to the characters Twain created. And Twain's sly humanization of Jim, the lovable runaway slave, was ahead of his time and probably second only to Uncle Tom's Cabin in its contribution to the reduction of racial prejudice. Bravo!...	2002-04-05
US	49664433	R3B4P01FZCWVVO	0140390839	474714897	The Adventures of Tom Sawyer (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A Slice of Americana Pie	Good fiction writers don't use clich&eacute;s, they create them. Twain ranks right up there with Shakespeare at adding to the English lexicon. But unlike Bill, Mark is all ours. In Tom Sawyer he captured the very essence of small-town American life in the 1800s. Where Shakespeare gave us phrases to repeat for centuries, Twain burned images in our combined psyche: rough little school-hating boys with frogs in their pockets and adventure in their minds; snobby pig-tailed young ladies in frilly skirts; no-account town drunks; a hard-working and god-fearing populace; hilarious superstitions. One could argue that the Little Rascals and the Andy Griffith show are direct descendants of this influence.<br />When I first read this book as a kid, I enjoyed the underlying adventure story, but missed the incredible wit and allegory. The book is fantastic on so many levels. The tale leads the clever and precocious Tom Sawyer through a series of minor incidents as he outwits friends and family in his never-ending quest to avoid work and school. He is also romantically drawn to the new girl in town, Becky Thatcher, the judge's daughter. The plot heats up when he and his low-life friend Huck Finn sneak into the cemetery at night to exorcise warts with a dead cat--but end up witnessing a murder by Injun Joe. The various plot elements all weave together in true brilliance for a very satisfying conclusion. Twain even allows his young character to do something everybody at one time or another wishes they could do: witness his own funeral. This is a national treasure. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2002-03-19
US	49664433	RHQZ1BBQLXEKK	0895262371	905529053	Absolute Power: The Legacy of Corruption in the Clinton-Reno Justice Department	Books	5	23	27	N	N	Absolute Power Corrupts Absolutely.	Author David Limbaugh chose a great title for this worthy book. Lord Acton's 1887 statement proves true again. Rather than simply a rehash of the sins of Bill Clinton by another member of the \\"vast right-wing conspiracy,\\" this is a fresh perspective of the Clinton years, focusing on the Reno Justice Dept. It's enough to make one mad all over again. It's one thing to have the various scandals dribbled out one-by-one over two presidential terms, but to read about them over the course of a few hours shows the magnitude of the corruption.<br />Absolute Power focuses Limbaugh's laudable research talents on the following Clinton/Reno debacles: Waco; the tobacco wars; Billy Dale and Travelgate; the Ken Starr smear campaign; Linda Tripp trashing; the perversion of executive privilege; campaign finance scandals; the Bill Lann Lee recess appointment; clemency for terrorists; and Elian Gonzalez. He touches on Zippergate surprisingly little. He doesn't need to. Clinton's legacy isn't his dalliances with Monica Lewinsky in the Oral Office; it's a severe degradation of constitutional rights. <br />Limbaugh shows clearly that in this administration, the ends justified the means. America suffered eight years of creative lawyering--the price we paid for installing two unethical lawyers in the White House. The Reno Injustice Dept. proved time and again it was willing to eat its own, including anyone unwilling to march in lockstep with Clinton's political gamesmanship. The prime example was Ken Starr and the Office of the Independent Counsel--an extension of her own department. She tried to thwart his investigation at every turn.<br />On smoking, Limbaugh will have you rethinking the unprecedented Clinton/Reno attack on the tobacco industry, which was purportedly unleashed to save lives and money. He reveals one obstacle the Justice Dept. had to overcome: the \\"ghoul defense.\\" A Harvard study \\"concluded that since smokers die prematurely they save the federal government billion[s] eachyear in health care costs  smoking has apparently brought financial gain to both the federal and state governments, especially when tobacco taxes are taken into account  smokers do not appear to currently impose net financial costs on the rest of society.\\" Where tobacco could be treated so, liquor, hamburgers, and chocolate could soon follow.<br />An interesting point he makes on the allegation by Clinton apologists that everyone cheats on campaign finance is: \\"While Democrats insisted Republicans were equally guilty of fund-raising abuses, the Democrats ultimately were forced to return some million[s]--more than thirty times the amount returned by Republicans.\\"<br />Too many non-fiction books are authored by upper-crust-college graduates flaunting their language skills with gobs of ten-dollar words. The result can be tedious reading. Not so with Limbaugh and Absolute Power. This is clear, concise writing that virtually anyone can get through. It's easy to believe that if all his allegations are true, somebody would have done something about it; which is exactly his point: Reno, the one responsible for doing something, did nothing but continually run interference for Clinton. This is a tremendous historical record. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-03-19
US	49664433	R3MHGRVV3TMJ8P	081281679X	974690060	The Mayflower.	Books	4	6	8	N	N	The Right Title?	&quot;The Mayflower&quot; is about as complete an historical compendium as you'll ever want to read on a subject. Thoroughly researched, it's loaded with names, dates, anecdotes, and other trivia--some interesting, some not. And that's where the book bogs a bit: there may be too much data, at least for reading excitement. If the goal is a textbook and fact-based understanding of the matter, look no further. Caffrey's book is the Mayflower encyclopedia. If you're interested in the more recent writing trend toward historically accurate &quot;faction,&quot; in which the author inserts more drama to make the reading more pleasurable, you may be disappointed. This book is extremely well written, but a little dry.<br />Another minor matter is the title. While the ship is the early focus of the book, and Caffrey does return to the question of its final disposition in the last few pages, the meat of the text has little to do with the ship or the great voyage. This is a story about the Pilgrims themselves, of the Plymouth Plantation they founded, and of their Puritan existence and legacy. Any one of these three might have made a more appropriate title for the book.<br />All in all, &quot;The Mayflower&quot; is a great choice for those interested in learning the truth about America's early history. It left me curious to read more about the other early colonies at Jamestown, Boston, and New York. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-02-28
US	49664433	R2MHN6EM5E6OIN	1556521677	792560145	The People of the Abyss	Books	4	29	30	N	N	Shades of "The Jungle"	The Abyss was the poverty-stricken East End of London, England. The People were the unfortunate millions in the late 1800s and early 1900s who teetered on the edge, waiting for the all-too-common event--\\"the thing,\\" as Jack called it--to send them careening over the edge from which there was virtually no hope of return. It could be loss of a job, an illness, a debilitating injury, or a family breadwinner's death. What followed was a slow descent into hell, a long, losing struggle for gainful employment, food, and shelter. The Abyss was a cesspool of misery, disease, crime, abject poverty, drunkenness, debauchery, and early death. According to Jack London (an American outsider), responsibility for it lay with the high and mighty managers of society, the rich politicians who largely wrote-off the district as an aberration created by those who inhabited it.<br />People of the Abyss is reminiscent of Upton Sinclair's classic about the Chicago meatpacking industry, written some decades later. I found it better written, more readable, and more convincing as an impetus for social change. Where Sinclair employed a fictional device to shock readers with deplorable working and living conditions around the stockyards, London's book is very much like a journalistic report, a book-length essay on his real-life, \\"undercover\\" experiences in the Abyss. Also, while both writers do more moralizing than is generally acceptable in today's literature, London does less of it than Sinclair does. Less exaggerating too.<br />The book has a lot of historical value, and makes an interesting read. It's fascinating to learn of the horrendous conditions suffered by millions of unfortunate Londoners a hundred years ago. The debate rages on as to whether present-day inner-city conditions have improved. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-02-26
US	49664433	RFUSQMIF6VUT9	0812504798	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage (Tor Classics)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The Thin Line Between Fear and Courage	The Red Badge of Courage is an interesting story in many ways. The tale follows a young Union soldier named Henry Fleming for a day or two as he cuts his teeth in Civil War battle. Simple enough. But the intrigue is how author Stephen Crane--born nearly two decades after the war--could have written such an accurate-sounding depiction of battle. We read the book in present day with the benefit of having viewed countless images of Civil War battles in movies, television, and real-life reenactments, and after reading many books on the subject (i.e., The Killer Angels, The Last Full Measure, The Civil War, etc.). It's easy to forget that he didn't witness the war, nor had he witnessed any war at that point in his life. And publishing it in 1895, Crane never had the luxury of movies. Yet, Crane's account still rings true. The battle scenes come from a vivid imagination and, no doubt, newspaper articles and old photos. It is a commendable accomplishment that has stood the test of time.<br />Another interesting aspect is that the book is not plot-based in the mold of a Dickens novel. It is essentially a \\"slice of life\\" piece. Crane drops us into the action just before Fleming faces his first battle. We aren't told where or when this battle takes place. We don't know who the senior commanders involved are or whether the scene is fact-based or total fiction. And it doesn't matter. The particulars on who's fighting, why they're fighting, and whether they're winning is immaterial to Crane. His focus is not on the glory or spectacle of war, nor the ultimate goals. His book is a study in fear and courage. Henry Fleming is scared to die. But he's more afraid that he'll panic and run, exposing cowardice. Death is not something the living can comprehend. Shame in the face of comrades is.<br />There is also an interesting contrast between the gore of battle and Crane's poetic prose. Not a book that will change your life, but worth the quick read it presents. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-02-22
US	49664433	R10YSPOBM6YZ09	0192834258	217387433	The Tragedy of Anthony and Cleopatra (Oxford World's Classics)	Books	3	2	5	N	N	Will the Real Marc Antony Please Stand Up.	Anthony &amp; Cleopatra didn't grab me like Shakespeare's other works. I don't believe it's his best. Of course, it's still Shakespeare, which makes it better than most and definitely worth reading.<br />Despite the obvious beauty of each sentence, I found the larger picture harder to grasp in this rendering of the famous triangle of love and intrigue between Cleopatra, Queen of Egypt, Marc Antony, and Caesar of Rome. Without the benefit of prior historical perspective, this play is difficult to follow, and the character motivations are less clear than his other classics. After finishing the story I'm still trying to understand why Cleopatra so loved Antony. I would not choose this play as the one to introduce readers to Shakespeare. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-01-28
US	49664433	R15AU9SLWBACBL	0743205022	444632912	Holy War Inc. Inside the Secret World of Osama Bin Laden	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Holy Cow!	In \\"Holy War, Inc.,\\" Peter Bergen paints a grim picture of Islamic terrorism today. Osama bin Laden's Al Qaeda network reaches around the globe and boasts thousands of members--with probably tens of thousands more willing to join. As we learned on September 11th, their single-minded goal is to exterminate Americans.<br />Bergen's book is impressive. He spent years at it and traveled the world over to research it. He has interviewed many of the terrorists--including bin Laden himself--and their organizations. His background as a professional journalist comes in quite handy, and clearly shows in the very readable prose. Equally impressive was Bergen's ability to update his nearly completed manuscript with the latest September 11th attacks and rush the product to print. Talk about good timing.<br />It is fascinating to read about the unique and tenuous structure of the deadly Al Qaeda network. Secrecy, brutality, and outside-the-box thinking helped keep the jumbled mix of fundamentalist \\"cells\\" together. With a seemingly inexhaustible supply of money, arms, suicidal volunteers, and plump Western targets, the terrorists have wreaked havoc for nearly two decades: Saudi Arabia, Somalia, Tanzania, New York, Egypt, Afghanistan, Yemen, Kashmir, Kenya, Sudan, and on and on. It's easy to come away from \\"Holy War\\" with a sense of helpless despair.<br />The good news is that despite their spectacular success with the Twin Towers, Al Qaeda's other efforts have been largely hapless and ineffective. Typically, their attacks kill more Muslims or other innocents than infidel Americans. And Bush Administration's commitment to their destruction has certainly helped dismantle their operations. In the long run, though, it will probably require a much stronger cry for peace from the moderate Muslim world to quell the radical blood quest. Let's hope they speak up soon. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-01-25
US	49664433	RWRR3BYYG21U6	0595137148	126910115	Deadly Assets (Tony Stiles Mysteries)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Financial Mystery	Deadly Assets is a decent traditional mystery. The story revolves around the discovery of a Twin Cities couple--a man and his mistress--murdered in their home. The ex-wife is immediately suspected. Private financial investigator Tony Stiles, friend of the accused, is invited to help prove her questionable alibi. Following the age-old advice of Deep Throat, Stiles &quot;follows the money.&quot; The somewhat-confusing plot involves allegations that the deceased couple had committed murder themselves, and that plenty of financial shenanigans have been underway between a complex web of related parties--resulting in motive aplenty for more than one person. Stiles must prove the motive and method of the earlier murder before the more recent deaths can be explained. Will he succeed before he gets killed himself?<br />The book deserved better editing. It contains numerous grammatical errors, and generally reads like a first attempt. The writing shows promise, though. Deadly Assets is supposedly part of the Tony Stiles series. If the writer grows with his future books, this could become something good. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-01-15
US	49664433	R2D2NKSXG3LCYC	0451628810	78796814	The Federalist Papers	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Freedom is no Fluke	After reading the Federalist Papers you'll understand better how this great country was created. It was the brilliant thinking and writings of a surprising few that formed the unique U.S Constitution--the foundation for the most powerful, just, and free nation on the planet.<br />The Papers are a series of eighty-five essays written by Alexander Hamilton and James Madison and published in various colonial publications during 1787 and 1788, just as the great Constitutional Convention takes place in Philadelphia. They cover a wide variety of topics, each designed to describe the design and justification for the new republican federal government: the House, the Senate, the Presidency, the Judiciary, States' Rights, the Bill of Rights, etc. The essays are difficult to read in today's language. The writing style is verbose and stuffed with big words. Some of the longest sentences ever written are in there. But by plowing through this national treasure, one makes these observations:<br />One, these guys were smart. Hamilton and Madison possessed intellects unsurpassed by anyone in our federal government before or since. They envisioned literally the entire complex structure of the government before it even existed. And two, they did their homework. They applied their great brilliance to the study of political science and the vast wealth of historical experience offered by all the countries of the world. To make their points they often reference the examples of England, France, Spain, and the ancient civilizations of Greece, Rome, and more.<br />After reading the Federalist Papers, one can't help but come away with a renewed sense of patriotism, a sense of awe at the rare beauty of our democracy, and a glowing appreciation for U.S. citizenship. It's amazing to me that these documents aren't more popular. I went all the way through school, and never heard of the Federalist Papers. I don't think they're appropriate in raw form for most school kids (they'd be bored to death), but we ought to at least teach that the Papers exist. Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.but we ought to at least teach that the Papers exist. Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-01-14
US	49664433	R1FZYLE6VFMKZ8	0345413881	621917476	Dr. Death (Alex Delaware)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	What if Kevorkian got his Comeuppance?	Dr. Death is the intriguing mystery about a fictional euthanasia enthusiast--ala the real-life Dr. Kevorkian--who winds up brutally and ritualistically murdered. Who had motive to do such a thing? Plenty. But who could butcher the man in such a gruesome and staged way? Not too many.<br />It's clear from the crime scene gore that the murderer had &quot;issues.&quot; Therefore, Kellerman's main character, Dr. Alex Delaware--a practicing child psychologist--is invited by his LAPD homicide detective pal, Milo Sturgis, to assist in solving the bizarre case. The logical place to start is by looking at the survivors of Dr. Death's willing victims--&quot;travelers,&quot; as he calls them. Some family members may not agree that mercy killing was the right way to end their loved one's suffering. Delaware develops some good leads and is narrowing the chase to a few of his own patients when a curveball is thrown into the mix. An FBI profiler--agent Fusco--who has been tracking a serial killer for years, contacts Delaware with the news that Dr. Death's demise was curiously similar to his quarry's modus operandi. But Fusco is not who he appears to be. Suddenly the plot thickens.<br />Kellerman is a talented writer. His descriptions are rich and interesting. His knowledge of psychology is easily apparent. This book is one in a series, and was the first of his I've read; but unlike many series, the reader can jump in at any time, as I did, and enjoy the book no less. It stands alone just fine. Although it starts out slowly and never generates the can't-put-it-down level of excitement, Dr. Death is a good choice for all mystery readers, and especially those who enjoy the in-depth study of psychology, and matching wits with a clever writer. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2002-01-09
US	49664433	R1JKBECVSYKN2G	1582970238	837887490	How to Write Attention-Grabbing Query & Cover Letters	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Very Helpful.	Now we can know why writers receive rejection letters. John Wood has been there--on both sides. As an editor he reviewed over 25,000 query letters, seeing all the mistakes repeated over and over--and the occasional gem, which always followed a few simple rules. As a writer he has lived through the frustrating write/rejection cycle firsthand. He is as qualified as anyone to write this tutorial. The quality of his writing proves it. His book is dead-on, with easily understood descriptions.<br />After homilizing on the general decay of &quot;The Art of Correspondence,&quot; Wood presents an interesting chapter on how the editor/writer relationship--and each respective role--is viewed from both the writer's and the editor's perspectives, including the myths and misconceptions. This lays the groundwork for the meat of the manual: the list of ten query &quot;commandments&quot; and ten query &quot;sins.&quot; These are made particularly instructive by the inclusion of actual samples letters, both good and bad, and his own created &quot;ideal&quot; letter.<br />While the book focuses mainly on magazine article queries, there are chapters for fiction and non-fiction book writers too. Most of the rules seem to apply to all types of submissions, although he does a good job of delineating the subtle differences. The book goes on to cover various other types of correspondence a writer might send to editors and publishers.<br />The one flaw (relating only to my personal needs) was his short treatment of the fiction novel synopsis, which he convinces is fundamentally important, but then devotes only two pages to, and fails to include any samples. Overall, the book is excellent. You may have written the greatest article or book in history, but without Wood's help, it may never see the florescent light of the bookstore. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-11-23
US	49664433	R2B5BSDL7E240	0553296108	294589591	The Flight	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Took Flight For Me	The Flight exceeded my expectations in several ways. Judging the book by its cover, I dug in, planning a quick read through more pulp fiction. But the plot was as twisty as a bag of pretzels, and the author really knew his stuff: the U.S. and Japan battling in and around the Philippines during WWII. His clever handling of time travel was appreciated as well.<br />The President is dying of cancer and may not survive long enough to represent the &quot;good guys&quot; at an upcoming world meeting on European nuclear disarmament. Without him, the hawks (including his own VP) will have their way with dire consequences for the world. But there's a possible cure. Fifty years earlier, an Army doctor in the South Pacific claimed to have discovered a miracle drug that stopped cancer cold. But the man is killed or captured by the Japanese before the formula is made public. Retired Army Colonel Joe Kogan, now researching these same Philippine islands for his doctorate, is the expert chosen to take a flight of hand-picked experts back in time (the government has been keeping the poorly tested technology secret) to 1941 to retrieve the recipe and bring it back in time to save the world from the brink of ... nuclear re-proliferation? But, of course, time travel is never as easy as it seems on paper.  The plot sounds corny, but it's really well done and entertaining.<br />The book does have a few flaws. One is the introduction early in the tale of Kogan's girlfriend. I kept waiting for the story to come full circle and explain her relevance. There was none. She never showed up again. Why create her in the first place? The second was the intimation that Kogan suddenly knew or sensed or remembered something about a mysterious fifty-year-old picture of him found in the archives, and that his premonition (or whatever it is) convinces him to make the dangerous trip back in time. Again, this is never explained. Overall, though, this is an enjoyable, thought-provoking, and very readable book. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-11-09
US	49664433	RKCO9BGQ445IJ	0451184386	797392006	The Weatherman	Books	4	0	2	N	N	The Whether Man	Steve Thayer is the Whether Man. Right to the very end of The Weatherman, we don't know whether weatherman protagonist Dixon Graham Bell is guilty of serial murder or not. We think only what Thayer wants us to think. Readers are putty in the hands of this fiction-writing genius. Readers believe that--aha!--I know how this will end; only to be forced time and again to change their mind at Thayer's whim.<br />Dixon Graham Bell is a Vietnam veteran with heroic qualities. He saved a little girl's life in Southeast Asia, and later, as a Twin Cities weatherman with a keen sense for predicting weather, he saved countless others with his early warning on a killer tornado. But suddenly he is accused of a murder spree. At the change of each season, an innocent woman is brutally killed in the land of &quot;Minnesota Nice,&quot; and the circumstantial evidence points to Bell.<br />Thayer takes us deep into the seedy underbelly of local network television news. There we meet Bell's coworkers. One is a reporter and fellow Vietnam vet who wears a mask to cover hideous war wounds (the killer also wears a mask). Maybe he's the murderer. There is also the beautiful and ambitious anchorwoman who rejected Bell's advances and sleeps with the married Governor instead. She might be the killer. There's also the porn-obsessed station manager, and the bitter old weatherman Bell replaced. Will the real killer please stand up?<br />Thayer wends his way through fleshy characterizations and a twisty plot to the climax in which he masterfully makes the implausible seem plausible: capital punishment in liberal Minnesota. But the death sentence goes dreadfully wrong. Who's in the chair? Are they guilty? What disaster transpires? Do they live or die? Read it to learn whether your guesses or right or wrong. I forecast an enjoyable read. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-10-29
US	49664433	R2LXE1Z2Q5SBZL	0028040473	116857876	The Gregg Reference Manual	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The Grammatical Mother Lode	The Gregg Reference Manual covers virtually every aspect of English writing.  It is as fundamental to my writing efforts as a dictionary or thesaurus.  It is so thorough and well organized, it could easily replace a stack of textbooks and be used as the basis of a high school or college English course.  I have written three books, and in the final editing process I've gone through the Gregg Manual page by page, testing each rule on my manuscript, invariably finding numerous things needing correction or improvement.  I have learned more about proper English from this book than from any other single source.<br />One thing to keep in mind is that this reference manual focuses on business writing, not fiction.  There are sections that don't apply to novel writers.  Nevertheless, most of the information applies to all writing.  This book is an easy recommendation to anyone serious about quality writing.  Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-09-17
US	49664433	R1DSWROHA5L35A	0812504321	244802770	The Call of the Wild (Tor Classics)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	A Good Call.	Jack London's The Call of the Wild has staying power in the brutal world of literature.  Only the very best books ascend to the top of the heap.  Only a select few of those stay there for a hundred years.  The Call of the Wild is one of these books.<br />The book is a relatively simple, straight-forward tale about Buck, a large mixed-breed dog stolen from his comfortable existence in California and sold as a sled-dog for the Yukon gold rush.  Buck faces the trials and tribulations of the far North's harsh environment and harsher masters.  This is a story of transformation.  He must forget his trusting, dependent ways and fend for himself, fighting for his very survival.  He digs deep, variously finding and losing both hate and true love, and ultimately discovering the elemental animal within.<br />The book's shortcomings are few.  London employs a risky anthropomorphic narrative style--though he does it well.  We see the action from Buck's perspective.  But dogs don't talk, so there is very little dialogue.  This results in more &quot;telling&quot; than &quot;showing.&quot;  The descriptions are sometimes a bit long, typical of turn-of-the-century writing style.  And I was left wishing for more of the wonderful colloquial French-Canadian dialect we saw in the small smattering of dialogue.<br />The book is a fantastic transition choice for kids graduating from fluffy chapter books to more adult-like fare.  The stark, life-and-death issues it confronts grab their interest and make life-long readers of them.  In poetic irony, London's book is like the character within it:  a survivor.  --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-09-07
US	49664433	R706UYZWOMNP8	020530902X	241676942	The Elements of Style, Fourth Edition	Books	5	626	665	N	N	Essential Writer's Tool.	When I write a book I use only a handful of reference tools: dictionary, thesaurus, Gregg's Reference Handbook, Writers Market, and the Elements of Style. Strunk and White is a wonderfully-written, extraordinarily concise tool that pays homage to classic high-end English. It takes language insight to make this prediction in 1979: \\"By the time this paragraph makes print, uptight... rap, dude, vibes, copout, and funky will be the words of yesteryear.\\" The book begins with eleven \\"Elementary Rules of Usage,\\" and then continues with eleven more \\"Elementary Rules of Composition,\\" and eleven \\"Matters of Form.\\" Each is presented as a brief statement followed by another sentence or two of explanation and a few clarifying examples. This amazing compilation fills only thirty-eight pages, yet covers ninety percent of good writing fundamentals. My favorite section is Chapter IV, a twenty-seven-page, alphabetical listing of commonly misused words and expressions. Here's a trade secret: when my manuscript is \\"done,\\" I then turn to this chapter and use my word processor's Find function to study every instance of all these problematic words and phrases. I never fail to find errors this way. Many great writers are so only because they've learned to make use of the best available tools. The end of the book contains an essay on \\"An Approach to Style\\" with a list of twenty-one \\"Reminders.\\" Those who fight the apparently-natural tendency to go against these recommendations succeed as writers. Those who don't, fail. It's that simple. The single drawback of The Elements of Style is that it's too concise; it does not stand alone as an all-encompassing tutorial or reference guide. Many readers will seek other sources for more in-depth explanation of style elements. Despite that, it easily replaces ten pounds of other reference material. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-08-27
US	49664433	R2KB12H43K8OKV	1568580533	487897349	Steal This Book: 25th Anniversary Facsimile Edition	Books	1	66	109	N	N	Rebel Without A Clue.	Steal This Book is truly a clever and apropos title. It's also as far as quality in the book goes. Other than for the novelty, the book isn't worth the time it takes to read it. Poorly written and full of grammatical errors, it tries one's patience while its anarchistic ravings raise blood pressure. The book is rife with ignorance, teenage angst, and--especially--hypocrisy. He rages against war, but teaches knife fighting, weaponry, and bomb-making. He rails against the injustices of the &quot;Amerikan&quot; legal system, yet advises how to exert one's rights and seek protection under the very system he aims to bring down. While complaining that no publishing company would buy his book, he blasts capitalism as a pig establishment, yet offers no viable alternatives other than to steal from those who have. Even taken in the context of the times, that of the early 1970s with anti-war sentiment at its peak, the book is hard to stomach. Hoffman gives the impression that he loves revolution for the sake of revolution, not for any well-defined philosophy based on principle, virtue, religion, or political belief. Abbie Hoffman comes off as the product of a privileged society, a child of advantage, a spoiled rich kid with too much time on his hands, a kid who never experienced real hunger, hard work, or the joys of accomplishment and reward. This is the rant of a naughty boy. He calls on the &quot;Robin Hoods of Santa Barbara Forest to steal from the robber barons who own the castles of capitalism,&quot; but warns that &quot;To steal from a brother or sister is evil. To not steal from the institutions that are the pillars of the Pig Empire is equally immoral.&quot; Unfortunately, he fails to offer advice on distinguishing between brothers and pigs. Consider these quote gems: &quot;Make war on the sterile machines of corporate death and the robots that guard them.&quot; &quot;It's so easy to get on Welfare that anyone who is broke and doesn't have a regular relief check coming in is nothing but a goddamn lazy bum!&quot; &quot;Power to all the dirty fighters!&quot; On knife fighting against the police he says, &quot;Remember that today's pig is tomorrow's bacon; it's good to know a few handy slicing tips.&quot; If you want to read it, don't steal it; don't reward those who write and publish such garbage. Borrow it, if you must. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-08-24
US	49664433	R1UC5JU7MXN27H	1557091757	952758495	Tom Swift and His Motor Cycle	Books	3	2	3	N	N	History Captured.	The Tom Swift books are fun and simple reading. It's easy to see why these became so popular with the youth of the era. While I don't quite rank their plotting and general literary qualities as high as The Hardy Boy series, they are certainly well worth a look-see, even today.<br />This particular book interested me as a motorcycle enthusiast. It was fascinating to read about how the technology and terminology have changed in ninety-some years. The motor's rumble was called &quot;explosions.&quot; Easing off the throttle was called &quot;turning off some power.&quot; And the differences in speed were eye-opening. Tom was thrilled to be able to travel thirty miles in half a day. But the hilarious part was the full conversations he could have or overhear while careening toward imminent collision at such break-neck speeds. The one thing that hasn't changed a bit in all this time is the thrill and love of two-wheels in the wind. Appleton explains it in 1910 as well as anyone since.<br />The book is also worthwhile in that, without trying, it captures a snapshot of Americana at the turn of the century. Then-current views toward work ethic, criminals, and even minorities are revealed. Perhaps the most surprising is how the freedom, trust, and self-reliance of kids has changed. Today is certainly a different world. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-08-02
US	49664433	R3G9CXKSFWYUWC	0553212451	537609961	The Jungle (Bantam Classics)	Books	4	8	13	N	N	Ah, The Good Old Days.	Upton Sinclair's The Jungle is fascinating reading. This history lesson is a treatise on the turn-of-the-century meat-packing industry, and hardships facing uneducated immigrants in pre-depression Chicago.<br />The fictional tale opens with Lithuanian laborer, Jurgis Rudkis emigrating to America with his extended family in search of opportunity and a better life. With no language or trade skills the family follows a familiar path, landing in the Chicago stockyards where the work is hard, long, dangerous, and low-pay; and living conditions are horrendous. Sinclair proceeds with an oddly distant narrative style to describe one setback after another for Jurgis and family, painting a picture of utter hopelessness, with blame aplenty for all the institutions of society. This litany of despair includes injury, famine, death, loss of employment, drunkenness, prostitution, political corruption, infidelity, crime, and on and on. While the tale certainly grabs one's attention and is well-written, it's hard to imagine that such a dismal existence was shared by as many as he claims.<br />The book had a major impact in its time. Public outcry over the meat industry's safety abuses, from tainted product to callous treatment of workers, resulted in health regulation (the birth of the FDA) and employment reform. We are all better off today because of the abysmal conditions he brought to light.<br />But Sinclair failed with his primary agenda. In the end, The Jungle is a Socialist Manifesto, rife with exaggeration and inane anti-Capitalist rhetoric. Capitalism has survived--and thankfully so. The fictional tale of woeful Jurgis and family is a set-up, a pretense to rail on the evils of capitalism, and laud the virtues of his Socialist utopia. The picture he paints of American society is bleak indeed, and partially accurate. But most of the shortcomings he highlights were caused not by an inherently flawed political system, but by rampant corruption. No system is perfect. An underestimated factor in American success is its citizens' never-ending quest for truth and justice. We don't tolerate graft and corruption for long. Nixon and Clinton (though we failed to convict both) are examples of our system's greatest successes, not worst failures: the ability to peacefully purge ourselves of the cancer and get back on track.<br />Socialism, on the other hand, has been proven time and again to be fatally flawed. Cuba and the Soviet Union are but two examples. At its core is the concept that the weak and less fortunate--as well as the ignorant, uneducated, lazy, corrupt, and evil--must do as well economically as others. This sounds fair and humane. Unfortunately it fails to recognize that when the incentive to work harder to better one's circumstance in life is eliminated, no one works harder. The system is doomed to failure.<br />Thankfully, early readers of The Jungle rallied to reform labor laws and food safety regulation, and left democracy well enough alone to heal itself. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.imated factor in American success is its citizens' never-ending quest for truth and justice. We don't tolerate graft and corruption for long. Nixon and Clinton (though we failed to convict both) are examples of our system's greatest successes, not worst failures: the ability to peacefully purge ourselves of the cancer and get back on track.<br />Socialism, on the other hand, has been proven time and again to be fatally flawed. Cuba and the Soviet Union are but two examples. At its core is the concept that the weak and less fortunate--as well as the ignorant, uneducated, lazy, corrupt, and evil--must do as well economically as others. This sounds fair and humane. Unfortunately it fails to recognize that when the incentive to work harder to better one's circumstance in life is eliminated, no one works harder. The system is doomed to failure.<br />Thankfully, early readers of The Jungle rallied to reform labor laws and food safety regulation, and left democracy well enough alone to heal itself. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-07-24
US	49664433	R2XSJCTK1RZ88D	0738830658	343343222	The Crowning Circle	Books	3	2	3	N	N	A Crowning Achievement.	J.R. Lankford's The Crowning Circle shows the promise of a burgeoning career. She successfully wends her way through a rather complex tale of serial killings with surprising professionalism for a first-time novelist, bringing the suspense to a satisfying climax where are all loose ends are neatly tied. Her research effort is clearly evident, as literally dozens of topics, from the Vietnam War to electronics and software debugging, are dealt with in sub-surface depth.<br />Software debugger Jake Morrison--a single, analytical, data guy--becomes intrigued by the off-hand comments of his guitar-playing buddy, forensic psychologist Skeet Cullum, regarding several unsolved local deaths. He sets out to assist his friend by employing his logic skills on the clues at hand, immediately concluding that the various deaths--and others--are related, but also starting a Media sensation, landing them both in hot water that ends up testing their friendship, careers, relationships, and very lives.<br />Not that The Crowning Circle is without its faults. There are plenty of \\"feelings\\" being explored at every turn, more than some male readers may care for. That, however, is purely subjective. Less subjective is the need to tighten the prose with ruthless pruning of excess words. The wordiness isn't bad, but Hemingway this is not. The dialogue sometimes falls a bit flat as well. Consider this exchange: \\"Cullum here.\\" \\"Skeet, it's Jake.\\" \\"Jake? Jake Morrison?\\" \\"Yes, it's me.\\" Or this one: \\"Nice scotch, by the way.\\" \\"Is it?\\" \\"Yeah.\\" \\"Good.\\" These are tight, yes, but miss the opportunity for witty or revealing character comments.<br />Overall the book is well done and very readable. Good plotting, well-defined characters, plenty of twists and turns. Lankford is on her way. Fans are advised to get onboard early. It's going to be a long, pleasant ride. -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-07-18
US	49664433	R16H9ZRF6K00S0	0140184406	817315964	Riders of the Purple Sage (Penguin Twentieth-Century Classics)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Good Example of the Western Genre.	Zane Grey is one of the best-known and most prolific writers in the Western genre. Riders of the Purple Sage is perhaps his most famous novel. And deservedly so. The story starts rather slowly by today's fiction standards, and has a meandering story line that leaves one wondering what the book is all about--or whether it's actually about anything particular at all. But then with Dickensian brilliance he weaves a series of seemingly unrelated tendrils into one complex, exciting, and satisfying conclusion.<br />Rich and beautiful Jane Withersteen has inherited her father's ranch and cattle herds on the Utah frontier border. She resists the demands of church elders to marry Tull, a fellow Mormon, instead showing interest in Gentile sage-rider Ventors. This insubordinate behavior causes high tension in the Mormon town of Cottonwoods, already edgy from an insurgence of Gentiles and years of cattle-rustling mayhem led by the legendary Oldring and his mysterious Masked Rider. At the moment that Mormon ire peaks over Jane's intransigence, Grey adds the catalyst to a chain reaction of violent drama: the arrival in Cottonwoods of Lassiter, the infamous Mormon-killing gunman. The plot plays out with plenty of surprising revelations on the true identity and intentions of the various parties.<br />Grey's style is heavy on scenic description, with almost redundant recitation of the virtues of the purple prairie. But the book has a classic, literary quality to it, something the genre sorely missed until Larry McMurtry brought it back with Lonesome Dove. And horse-lovers will appreciate Grey's knowledge and detailed rendering of everything equestrian. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-06-26
US	49664433	RLIOVR1JJUZJE	0553212257	321315584	The Sea Wolf (Classics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Superb Sea Drama.	More readable and entertaining than Moby Dick, The Sea Wolf is the ultimate sea-faring fiction.<br />When his ferry collides with another ship in the fog and sinks, bookish dandy Humphrey Van Weyden finds himself alone and adrift off the coast of San Francisco.  He is saved from drowning by a passing sailing vessel, the Ghost, captained by Wolf Larsen, on its way to the seal hunting grounds in the far Pacific. To his dismay, &quot;Hump's&quot; request to be put ashore are ignored. Instead he is held captive, put to hard labor, and made to suffer greatly under the brutal leadership of the fearsome Wolf.<br />Wolf Larson is one of literature's most unique characters, and the mystery of what motivates him and what atrocities he'll commit next compel the reader on. He is not the stereotypical pirate ogre, but rather a well-read, deep-thinking intellectual whose best thoughts justify--in his mind--his callous behavior. He is a firm believer in natural selection and survival of the fittest. On the Ghost, he is at the top of the food chain.<br />As the months pass, Hump is changed by the sea and physical exertion, earning 1st mate status. After plenty of excitement and drama, the plot twists when Maud Brewster, a beautiful young writer, is rescued from a lifeboat adrift a following a storm. Hump is smitten, but so is Wolf. The story plays out well to climax, with classy prose and the best description of sailing I've ever read. A good choice for all adventurers and anyone who loves the sea. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-05-25
US	49664433	RA2N2LM1EZ0UF	0671722794	370153288	A Midsummer Night's Dream	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Ultimate Romantic Comedy.	I was a restless ninth-grader, having just plowed through Dickens' Great Expectations under duress from a crotchety English-teaching schoolmarm, when the next assignment came down: A Midsummer Night's Dream by Shakespeare. All hope for excitement in life seemed lost. But as I did my duty and read this book, it grabbed hold of me. It was actually good. By the end of the story, it had become a defining moment in my literary life. I was astounded that some crusty old guy from England four hundred years ago could write such a funny, entertaining, and insightful tale. I've been a book lover ever since.<br />The story is a unique mix of romantic comedy and fantasy. Young couples are caught in a swirl of complicated love triangles. Theseus and Hippolyta are to be married. Lysander loves Hermia, whose father, Egius, prefers she marry Demetrius. And Helena, friend of Hermia, loves Lysander. So it goes.<br />When all the parties visit the forest on a midsummer night--along with a troupe of actors practicing their performance for Theseus and Hippolyta's wedding--a group of fairies led by Oberon, Titania, and Puck further complicate matters by introducing a magical love potion. What follows is one of the most hilarious and sophisticated tales ever written. It is truly genius, and deserving of its stature as a timeless classic. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-05-21
US	49664433	R2DGZKW2J4XWML	0440226708	198404833	The Incredible Journey	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Incredibly Good.	The Incredible Journey is mandatory reading for all kids and pet lovers. The book is on equal par with other classic animal tales such as Sounder and Old Yeller. It has a good combination of exciting action and emotionally-charged drama. Many young readers will be moved to both tears and cheers.<br />Through a series of mishaps, a trio of pets--a Labrador retriever, bull terrier, and Siamese cat--are left stranded in a cabin over two hundred miles from home. These three anthropomorphic characters assume the responsibility of saving themselves by journeying home by instinct and foot. What follows is a fantastic series of challenges and accomplishments. Their trek leads them through the north woods where they face wild predators, the elements, starvation, and incomprehensible distance. Along the way they learn lessons of love, loyalty, and perseverance. Wonderfully entertaining. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-05-17
US	49664433	R3SEIADOYLFMDW	0679006621	480713509	Fodor's Citypack Washington, D.C., 3rd Edition (Citypacks)	Books	4	7	7	N	N	A Worthy Guide Book.	Fodor's Washington D.C. Citypack is worth the money spent. When I needed research information on the Capitol for my next novel, I stumbled across this book online. I love it. There are surely books that contain more information, but for the purpose it serves, Fodor's is excellent.<br />Physically, it's small, thin, lightweight, colorful, and laminated. This allows it to be carried in pocket or purse and used repeatedly at a moment's notice--not as a desk-bound reference tome. The laminated cover makes it durable. Feels cool too. The inside covers are a decent map of the key tourist spots, which is a nice supplement to the larger and more thorough pull-out map provided.<br />The text is divided into color-keyed sections that list a brief history of the city, plus good tips on how-to, where-to, when- o, and why-to visit the choice locations, such as monuments, museums, gardens, restaurants, or entertainment hotspots. The text is clear and concise. I would pick up a Fodor's Travel Guide to any major city I visited without hesitation. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-05-15
US	49664433	R2PVBLBM62RC1A	0792274547	885092821	National Geographic Destinations, Antarctica the Last Continent (NG Destinations)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Awesome.	When I needed reference material on Antarctica for fact-checking my next suspense novel, I turned to this National Geographic classic. I expected the usual fare: extraordinary photography and a few pertinent bits of data. My expectations were exceeded.<br />The volume is divided into four sections. The first covers the physical geography, a litany of world record extremes. The coldest, driest, highest, windiest, least populated, etc. The next touches on the rich heritage of exploration and discovery there, incredible tales of bravery and hardship like those of  Shackleton, Scott, and Mawson. You'll want to read more after this primer. The third section is on wildlife, very little of which is land-based. But the surrounding seas and sky are the most fertile and abundant on the planet. Penguins, seals, squid, krill, albatross, whales, algae, and more. The final section is devoted to Antarctica's environmental peril. Kim Heacox simply states the facts here, avoiding the overstatement and wolf-crying that cause such disservice to the environmental movement.  <br />The biggest surprise was the quality of writing. My previous exposure to National Geographic was cursory perusal at the dentist's office. This one I read from cover to cover. The writing is simply wonderful. It was the mother lode of information for my next book, and will now rest on my coffee table, proudly displayed for years to come. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-05-08
US	49664433	R12L0ANMKL7FBQ	0449300021	996904481	Les Misérables	Books	4	31	35	N	N	Worth the Effort.	Les Miserables will be a tough read for some. Victor Hugo, in typical Nineteenth Century prose, is exceedingly verbose. His character introductions go on literally page after page, covering minute details that some modern readers will find tedious. Not only are they long, but they break the modern writing rule of &quot;show rather than tell.&quot; When he presents new characters, we don't hear them converse or see their actions to form our own opinions. Hugo simply regurgitates a ten or twenty-page biography on them.<br />But this was how books were written then, and he did it as well as it could be done. The language is marvelous and rich, the characters interesting and complete, and the story sweeping and classic.<br />Jean Valjean, freshly released from a French prison, is caught stealing silver from an extraordinarily pious Bishop. Amazingly, this Bishop denies the silver is stolen, allowing Valjean to go free. Valjean, brutalized by nineteen years of life in &quot;the galleys&quot; and suffering poverty and maltreatment as an ex-convict, is so affected by this merciful act that he vows to reform. Seven years later he has changed his name and transformed himself into a righteous and contributing member of society, now a prominent factory owner and town Mayor. Life is good as he shares his profits and kind heart with the poor and unfortunate--until his past catches up with him. Valjean is then faced with an incredible predicament whose genius and complexity can be appreciated only by plowing through the full text.<br />Historically, this is an important literary work. Much of its political and religious sub-text may be lost, however, on those unfamiliar with the basics of the French Revolution. Like Valjean, readers will be better people for making the journey through this book. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-30
US	49664433	R184JYPRMEORBD	0449213943	15707610	All Quiet on the Western Front	Books	5	6	10	N	N	The Front Line of Literary Excellence.	The horror and insanity of trench warfare sink home in this classic eyewitness account of World War I combat. The book is a bit of a paradox, a fictional account of an ordinary German soldier's gruesome war experiences, written by an author who lived through it all in real life. Remarque was himself a German trench fighter who was wounded more than once One wonders why he chose the fictional approach rather than an auto-biographical one. Perhaps he felt it delivered more emotional impact. It's hard to argue. This is a touching novel that easily accomplishes his clear goal: depict the utter futility and inhumanity of war.<br />The Great War, as all wars must do, gave birth to many worthy poets and novelists. But if there is a better one than Remarque relating the conditions in WWI Europe, it's news to me. The book reads at low volume, generating mental imagery in black and white. Simple, straightforward story-telling is all that's needed to present the message, and the result is anything but subtle. Remarque captures the essence of trench warfare and places us as near to it as we'll every want to be. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-18
US	49664433	R1MR1M55C1XLU3	0345324536	73961624	The Warlord of Mars	Books	5	1	3	N	N	Good Old Fashioned Heroics.	Keeping in mind that much of the outer space and Mars-related science fiction in this book is far out-dated--almost comically so--Warlord of Mars is really a quite enjoyable book, even today. Edgar Rice Burroughs, perhaps more famously known as the creator of Tarzan, is the consummate story-teller. This is richly plotted fantasy with highly suspenseful action scenes; strong imagery; clearly defined characters; and an inexhaustible pool of creative names like Barsoom, Dejah Thoris, and the Therns, which sink into a reader's psyche and never wear away.  Burroughs is one of the classic writers of yore, capable of putting their hero in one seemingly impossible predicament after another, yet managing to extricate them at the height of suspense by some clever trick every time. No matter how many times we read this stuff, it never gets old.<br />The John Carter series is mandatory reading for all serious sci-fi buffs. And one should definitely read the first two books in the trilogy before taking on this third and final edition. Long live John Carter! --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-17
US	49664433	R12OGOJX611I5U	0679745580	990777880	In Cold Blood	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Birth of a Genre.	The greatest authors don't write formula fiction or non-fiction, they create the template themselves. Truman Capote did this with In Cold Blood, the chilling dissection of a brutal and mysteriously nonsensical American crime. The True Crime category he founded has been used and enjoyed many times since.<br />Capote does so many things right in this book that his writing gift becomes immediately obvious. Following the footsteps of the two criminals and analyzing their flawed motivations is both instructive and entertaining. He recreates each moment of the developing disaster, building suspense with clarity and understatement, allowing the facts and reality to carry the impact, rather than fancy sensationalized verbiage. But he drills beyond the details of the crime into the psyche of the two killers, divining answers to the what seems unanswerable to rational persons: why kill these people? The result is an interesting literary platform from which both opponents and proponents of capital punishment and childhood intervention can preach.<br />I find corollary with Wambaugh's The Onion Field. Can't go wrong with this one. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-16
US	49664433	R21UX8U8GVGVVD	014038572X	249148416	The Outsiders	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Extraordinary Insight.	Leave it to a gifted sixteen-year-old to decipher in such clear and compelling fashion the powerful motivations of adolescent existence. The Outsiders is a sophisticated, moving, gripping tale of teenage angst, peer pressure, ignorance, and self-discovery. Rarely do readers connect faster or more completely than with Hinton's &quot;Ponyboy&quot; character. The realism and emotion of this book are astounding. It's not a fluffy, feel-good book for kids. It's at the other end of the spectrum from Harry Potter fantasy. This is full-contact fiction dealing with the everyday drama and trauma today's kids witness or worry about: family, friends, school, violence, police, gangs, love, loyalty, fear, and aspirations. This one leaves a mark. Bravo! --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-11
US	49664433	R5U8TUHRVG394	0553208845	36215520	Siddhartha	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Epiphany for Sale	Books can be magical things. This is one of them. For ten bucks or so you can buy a short read that has proven its ability literally millions of times over many decades to produce epiphanies in readers of all ages. This makes it one of the best values of all time.<br />Siddhartha is poetic prose, a literary masterpiece about a man's search for his place in the universe and the meaning of life. These are tall topics--something each of ponders at some length--and not easily conquered. Hesse accomplishes it with amazingly few pages. The book touches all the senses, like a brain massage. It would be easy to skip this book, to brush it off as mushy, hippy text. Don't make that mistake.<br />I first read it as a teen about the same time that Kung Fu was a hit on TV. The two combined for a mind-expanding experience. I began looking at life in a different and better way. It's hard for me to imagine an adult who has read Siddhartha at some point in their life committing violent crime. Cause and effect? I strongly recommend Siddhartha to the open-minded and idealistic youth of the world, and all others who continue the search for their own identity. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-10
US	49664433	R35Q3WBEN7RS7O	0961436204	747126168	Toast to the Fur Trade	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Part of Minnesota's Heritage.	Toast To The Fur Trade is a fine book written by a man who obviously researched his subject thoroughly. My autographed original makes a great addition to the coffee table, where it sparks conversations on people's experiences in the Boundary Waters. This is the kind of book that should be available to Minnesota kids who'll page through and have their curiosity piqued, inspiring them to learn more about their rich Voyageur heritage. Though out of print, I believe copies can still be obtained by contacting the author's son, Jon Wheeler of Wheeler Productions, Stillwater, MN. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-04-09
US	49664433	R3SGD58RHIYDOO	078670621X	104115308	Endurance: Shackleton's Incredible Voyage	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Cripes!	Alfred Lansing subtitled his book, Endurance, as \\"The Greatest Adventure Story Ever Told.\\" That's a tall claim, and he may be right. In terms of the limits of hardship the human body can endure, only one book rivals this incredible true story: Slavomir Rawicz's \\"The Long Walk\\" (which I enthusiastically recommend).<br />In 1914, Sir Ernest Shackleton, a veteran of two previous Antarctic expeditions, and his crew of 26 men and an eighteen-year-old stowaway-who later has his frostbitten and gangrenous foot amputated-set sail for Antarctica aboard the worthy ship, Endurance, determined to be the first men to sledge across the full breadth of the continent. They never get there. Beset in ice floes just off the coast of Antarctica, ship and crew begin a two-year ordeal of cold, hunger, monotony, loneliness, and despair as they are dragged helplessly around the vicious Weddell Sea by pack ice. The ship is crushed by the ice before the first year is out, forcing the crew onto the ice. This begins an excruciating existence of basic survival against all odds as the pack drifts slowly north, forcing them onto ever diminishing floes, and eventually to the ship's life boats.<br />Near death, the crew finally reaches hellish and uninhabited Elephant Island after nearly two years. This is before functional radio. There are no satellites, no phones. No one in the world knows where they are. They have been given up for dead by the civilized world thousands of miles away and preoccupied by World War I. Their only hope for salvation is for Shackleton and five others to take the best of the three boats, an open, 22-foot life boat, and sail it 870 miles across the worst seas on earth to the whaling station on South Georgia Island and return to rescue the others before they freeze or starve to death. After landing on South Georgia, they're forced to trek on foot across the frozen island to reach the whaling station, a feat never before attempted and rarely since accomplished.<br />The scene Lansing paints as Shackleton and two others trudge into this camp as gaunt and grimy, bearded and long-haired living ghosts in rags, is so moving I had to get up and walk around for a while after reading it. I got seasick on a cruise ship in the Caribbean once, and wanted to die. What these heroes stoically endured is simply beyond comprehension. And hurray to Lansing for his research and writing effort. As a writer myself, I see one of the major challenges in writing this book as how to keep the text fresh and the excitement going, when in reality each day of the expedition was a boring repetition of cold, hunger, worry, ice, and more ice. But this is the epitome of a page-turner. Why isn't it a major movie? -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-31
US	49664433	R20J94NM0LJIBE	0553212184	778751376	Uncle Tom's Cabin (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	16	18	N	N	A Study In Prejudice.	When Harriet Beecher-Stowe published Uncle Tom's Cabin in 1852 it sold more copies than any book before, other than the Bible. It became a significant catalyst in the social movements of the time: abolition of slavery, and States' rights. It could be argued that her book was a major cause of the Civil War and Emancipation Proclamation. That's one powerful book--especially for fiction.<br />While the book was intended as an illustration of the evils of slavery, it ends up as more--specifically a study in racism with the conclusion that prejudice comes in infinite degrees. Even Harriet herself was prejudice. She occasionally takes the unorthodox approach of interrupting her narrative to preach to the reader, clearly stating her opinion that Blacks were a &quot;degraded race,&quot; but  still worthy of humane treatment. As she wends her way through the story and reveals her large and varied cast of characters, she exposes the many forms of discrimination, some more forgiving than her own.<br />She portrays her hero, the old slave, Uncle Tom, as a likeable, caring, Christian man deserving compassion and freedom. She unwittingly coined the Uncle Tom cliché, that of a complacent and passive black man resigned to his low station in life, kowtowing to white men. But she also delivers us the more savory George Harris, a hot-blooded and intelligent young slave willing to die for his freedom, a man with true &quot;American&quot; virtue. She introduces the reprehensible slave traders and run-away trackers, the brutal plantation owners, Southern apologists and sympathizers, Northern indignation and apathy, and the only color-blind people in her book, the helpful Quakers on the Underground Railway. Most important, she shows the tragic result of slave child ripped from mother, and husband from wife to be &quot;sold down river.&quot; A century and a half later, it's hard to imagine how this could happen.<br />Uncle Tom's Cabin is a prime example of the power of the written word. It divided a nation and changed an institution. Its message remains relevant even today, and still manages to ignite passions. Beyond all that, it's actually one heck of an entertaining story. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-28
US	49664433	R938SXTBSUETY	0425166805	870728260	Chariots of the Gods: Unsolved Mysteries of the Past	Books	5	22	33	N	N	The Missing Link?	When I first read Chariots of the Gods years ago, it grabbed me like no book before.  The hypothesis was staggering, the evidence astounding. I recall my teenage enthusiasm over learning the origins of our species. But as the years went by and I grew more cynical and crotchety, and saw much of the &quot;evidence&quot; disputed and discredited, I've had to back off on the conviction that Von Daniken was right about ancient aliens visiting Earth and spawning the race of Man.<br />However, since its publication, the pendulum of mainstream science has swung toward belief of life on other planets--even intelligent life. There remains many reasons to keep an open mind on the subject: unexplained and credible UFO sightings; our own space travel capabilities; the statistics supporting intelligent alien life; reports of ongoing alien abduction and breeding; the unsolved mysteries of Man's origin; and a good deal of Von Daniken's compelling evidence that has not been otherwise explained. Every decade or so there is a paradigm shift in the body of scientific knowledge Man has accumulated, which always makes us more enlightened, but also proves that throughout the past we were wrong on many things and never as smart as we thought we were. There's no reason to think the trend won't continue.<br />So who knows what really happened in our past? Surely, much of Von Daniken's premise is inaccurate, but that doesn't change the fact that his book is a highly stimulating and entertaining read. I loved it. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes	2001-03-22
US	49664433	R3176QVQ8TNL9T	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Mayhem in Moscow.	Clever and moral Arkady Renko, a Moscow police detective, must solve a gruesome triple homicide in Gorky Park, Moscow's version of New York's Central Park. The mutilated victims have had their faces and fingerprints removed, making identification problematic.<br />Arkady wends his way through a minefield of political intrigue unique to Soviet Russia. This is what makes the well-crafted tale so fresh to American readers. Smith does an excellent job of exposing Russian culture to us. The detective must solve the murder while simultaneously living up to his famous father's reputation, and living through the KGB's vendetta for past accusations of corruption.<br />Sable furs, nasty Americans, pretty Russian women, and betrayal at every turn. This book has it all. One of the best in the genre. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-20
US	49664433	R3E1OMH957U2G0	0375754741	368327816	The Last Place on Earth: Scott and Amundsen's Race to the South Pole, Revised and Updated (Modern Library Exploration)	Books	5	3	7	N	N	History at its Best.	Roland Huntford is to be commended for his incredible effort in researching this subject matter, although the first part of the book dragged a bit. Huntford goes into great detail on the personal background of Robert Scott and Roald Amundsen--almost too much detail. But it was worth slogging through because it provides tremendous background and understanding on how and why the Scott Expedition came to its tragic end, and Amundsen went on to claim the prize of first to the South Pole. The reality is that it'd be worth reading through a brick wall to get at the gem in this book: Scott's diary.<br />Scott and four men die only eleven miles from salvation on their return trip from the South Pole. Demoralized by the discovery that they'd been beaten there by Amundsen a month earlier, Scott's party trudges across the ice toward home base pulling their man-sledges, slowly freezing and starving to death. When their bodies are discovered later, Scott's diary is found intact. It details graphically yet with typical British understatement the horrific conditions the men endured and ultimately succumbed to. When fellow explorer Oates, whose frostbit black and dead feet are slowing the team down, selflessly sacrifices himself for the good of the party by shedding his coat and wandering out of the tent into the howling storm, never to be seen again, we are in the tent with these unbelievably brave, stubborn, foolish, tragic heroes. This book delivers maximum reader impact.<br />The book provides another important service, which is to chronicle the brilliant achievement of Roald Amundsen, who won the race to the Pole but was largely overshadowed by Scott. Huntford plays the Scott and Amundsen characters against one another brilliantly, highlighting their differences, motivations, and foibles. In the early 1900s the South Pole was the Holy Grail of Earth-bound exploration, considered to be the last place yet reached by Man (excluding the peak of Everest). This is the tale of the men who raced to get there. Finances, weather, national pride, equipment, strategy, motivations, mistakes; Huntford covers it all. This is history at its best. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-16
US	49664433	R1GV4QYXNZ6EB5	0440406498	711445845	The Black Cauldron (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Taran Wanderer Shows His Mettle.	In Lloyd Alexander's second book in his five-book series on the Land of Prydain, our brave young antagonist, Taran Wanderer, the Assistant Pig-Keeper of Caer Dallben, joins the battle host led by the honorable Prince Gwydion of Don in its quest to liberate and destroy the evil Black Crochan, an enormous iron cauldron. It is in this kettle that the dark lord, Arawn of Annuvin, creates the Cauldron-Born, his indestructible warriors, from the corpses of men. He who controls the Crochan, wields the power. Taran and his comrades must face witches in the Marshes of Morva and some surprising traitors before the climatic conclusion of this story.<br />Alexander weaves a masterful tale of good versus evil, with Taran wedged between, forced to choose time and again between right and wrong, loyalty and self-preservation, or blind obedience and moral obligation. This second book notches up the excitement. The plot is more curvy and better-conceived than book one. Taran's burden grows as does his reputation. Taran is one of the strongest and most likeable characters of all time, and as readers we begin to question his true origins. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes	2001-03-14
US	49664433	R31VTGEX9WHH5V	0440407028	159056506	The Book of Three (Pyrdain Chronicles)	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Wonderful Introduction to Taran Wanderer.	This first book in Lloyd Alexander's five-book series introduces most of the characters we come to know and love in the later books: Taran, Eilonwy, Hen-Wen, Doli, Coll, Dallben, Gurgi (with his many munchings and crunchings), Gwydion; and the evil players, Arawn, Achren, the Huntsmen of Annuvin, Gwythaints, the Cauldron Born, and the chief antagonist in this book, the Horned King (depicted on the cover).<br />Alexander draws deeply from Welsh mythology to bring us one of the finest fantasy series ever written, teeming with colorful wizards, princes, dwarves, and assorted monsters. It's heavily laden with virtue and positive messages without ever preaching. In The Book of Three, our hero, Taran Wanderer cuts his teeth in adventure and battle against the Horned King, showing early hints the greatness to come.<br />This first book is not by itself one of the great literary works, but is a worthy and required warm-up to the genius of the complete work. I believe these tales of the land of Prydain rank with Narnia and Tolkien's Middle Earth. Personally, I rank the Prydain series as number two behind the Ring Trilogy, and slightly better than the Narnia Chronicles. Alexander's books are easier reading than Tolkien's, but lack the depth. Of course, that's like saying K2 isn't as high as Everest. Who cares? --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-13
US	49664433	RS4FZVHJ5D5P2	0451202341	334925003	Back Roads	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Fun With Family Dysfunction.	Back Roads is the quirky tale of Harley Altmeyer, a twenty-year-old, deep-thinking, virgin, Pennsylvania hillbilly who's raising his three young sisters--the oldest of whom is a bit slutty--in his mother's stead, since she's in prison for the murder of her abusive husband. Harley, a neo-classical tortured soul, rectifies his virgin status with an older, drunken, married, hotty neighbor. Then things get weird in this literary soap opera. Very weird. But this is not a Jerry Springer Show script. It is a thoughtful novel.<br />The book stands out from the pack for several reasons. Tawni O'Dell takes on a daunting and unusual task: female authoring of a male protagonist in first person narrative. And does a good job. The style is colloquial, age-appropriate, and rich with dark wit and understatement. She paints a clear and seemingly accurate picture of Pennsylvania coal country for out-of-state readers. We are drawn into the story not so much out of affection or connection with Harley, but by morbid curiosity. How bad does it get? At several points I thought the dysfunction was over done. But no, real life gets this bad and worse.<br />I met Tawni O'Dell at a booksigning at the Ruminator (nee Hungry Mind) in St. Paul a few weeks before Back Roads became an Oprah pick. I asked whether she had written other books. Yes, six earlier ones, none of which will ever sell. This fact is illustrative. No one spends the time to write six failed novels and tackle a seventh without a passion for the craft. The product is Back Roads. She's now a polished and courageous writer. Congratulations from Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-07
US	49664433	R73W7I09BMBDD	0312966199	546505387	All Things Bright and Beautiful	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Changed My Life.	All Things Bright and Beautiful is a fantastic book that had a curious effect on the direction of my life. This sequel to Herriot's best-selling &quot;All Creatures Great and Small&quot; continues the true, autobiographical adventures of the author as an English countryside veterinarian. I had just read his first book and dove right into this second one, absolutely convinced as a teenager that veterinary medicine was my destiny. But by the end of  this second book, Herriot helped me realize that while I loved animals, I wouldn't be happy as a vet. The odd hours, inevitable disappointments, and requirement to frequently and literally go elbow deep into places I'd rather not, caused the realization that petting a warm and fuzzy pet and fixing a sick and slimy farm animal are two entirely different propositions. One measure of a book's merit is its power to change lives. This one has such power, for which I'm eternally grateful. -- Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead and owner of 3 cats, 2 dogs, and 2 horses.	2001-03-05
US	49664433	R2PHM901QYRZ0F	0312965788	546505387	All Creatures Great and Small	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Calling All Animal Lovers.	All Creatures Great and Small is a book for anyone who loves animals. Or country living. Or medicine. Or good writing. This is a feel-good book. Herriot relates his experiences and emotions as a new country veterinarian in pre-WWII England. Some events are funny, some sad. The book as a whole is moving, uplifting. This first book in his highly successful series is a literary walk down a country lane in Springtime. A great choice for FFA kids, pet nuts, or crabby old people who could benefit from a big whiff of fresh air. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-02
US	49664433	RTWNSD10RJ9MX	0679853065	21653852	A Day No Pigs Would Die	Books	4	0	0	N	N	This Beef Is About Pork.	Characters in conflict is what moves a story along. The conflict, or &quot;beef,&quot; in this book is about a young boy's pet pig. The story develops this way:<br />Boy saves neighbor's calf. Grateful neighbor gifts boy a piglet. Boy makes pet of pig. Boy's strict father frowns on gift. Boy's father butchers pigs for a living. Now that's conflict.<br />This somber, touching book describes Shaker farm life in New England, and provides an excellent exploration of the relationship between father and son. Its apparent beef may be about pork, but underlying that is a sophisticated coming-of-age essay. Definitely worth a look. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-03-01
US	49664433	RJTTNO0Q30XJJ	0553381008	865881389	Stories of Anton Chekhov	Books	4	6	18	N	N	Essential Short Story Reading	The short story is a cross between poetry and prose. Its best writers possess the skills of both writing styles. Chekhov was such a writer. His short stories provide a revealing glimpse of pre-Bolshevik-Revolution Russia, which in many ways doesn't seem to have changed much: stark, gray, cold, dysfunctional. He was able to sculpt three-dimensional characters, scene-scapes, and storylines that cause emotional reaction in readers. To read Chekhov is to feel.<br />While I found myself distracted by the Russian character names, the aging writing style, and my ambivalence toward short fiction, it's impossible to read these stories without great appreciation for the man's talent and his contribution to America's understanding of Russian culture and the world of literature in general. This collection is a good way to say, &quot;Yeah, I've read Chekhov.&quot; --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-23
US	49664433	R8Q7S51SBD6M6	0451526562	365726027	A Tale of Two Cities (Signet Classics)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	It Is A Far, Far Better Book Than Dickens' Others.	A Tale of Two Cities is the best plotted and most readable of Dickens' works. Broad in scope, the story spans main character Dr. Alexander Manette's lifetime and the English Channel. Dickens portrays London as the opulent center of the civilized world, and Paris, in the throes of the French Revolution, as a cesspool of tortured humanity. The complex tale of love, honor, and courage is woven over the backdrop of this politically charged and culturally polarized time in history.<br />Interestingly, it has been alleged that this book, which is shorter and stylistically different than Dickens' other books, was not actually written by him. Dickens was a unique character in English literature, being perhaps the first writer to achieve wealth and fame during his lifetime. Some suggest that he either lent his good name to the manuscript of an unknown in a duplicitous scheme to boost sales, secretly sharing the proceeds, or that he flat out stole the story from one of the many hopeful writers who sent him manuscripts for comment. We'll probably never know the truth. But it doesn't matter who wrote it. That only adds to the mystique of a fantastic book. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, Author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-16
US	49664433	R1RREVQBK4F4OQ	0553213105	503057596	Pride and Prejudice (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	A Timeless Classic.	For the typical male, the only thing worse than reading a romance novel is reading a two-hundred-year-old romance novel. So why'd I bother? Because I'm a firm believer that serious readers should occasionally expand their horizons and sample books from other genres, especially those they'd normally pooh-pooh. Because that's when we get pleasantly surprised.<br />Pride and Prejudice fell into this category for me. I wanted a break from the mystery/suspense genre and had heard good things about Jane Austen. As I dug in, my expectations were met early on: plodding, expository chunks of Old English describing landscapes and feelings. Ugh. But then she got me.<br />Like peeling an onion, Austen uncovers characters and a story that are simply genius. Like Shakespeare, she proves again that time and technology have no impact on basic human impulses and the complexities of love. This book will be just as popular in another two hundred years. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-15
US	49664433	RJ46LFFWD09Q1	0440164176	320314095	The New Centurions	Books	4	14	16	N	N	Realistic Cop Indoctrination.	A centurion was literally a Roman officer in charge of a hundred-man contingent of soldiers in a legion of three to six thousand men. They were the front-line leaders who issued forth from Rome for five hundred years, beating barbarians into submission and maintaining law and order throughout the empire. Wambaugh applies this moniker to his unique tale of three rookies issuing forth from the police academy, fresh and idealistic as they set about to clean up Los Angeles.<br />They have a lot to learn. As it turns out, right and wrong aren't always clearly black and white. Bad guys populate both sides of the law. Rules are subject to interpretation. Justice is slow and convoluted. And life is not fair.<br />Wambaugh brings his unique real-life experience in LAPD to bear on this story, showing the maturation of cops in believable fashion. The book is a little dated in terms of police procedure, but the underlying story and message are same-day fresh. This is a cut above the typical cop's tale. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-14
US	49664433	R25MIJKG3HR9OR	067168390X	34918879	Lonesome Dove	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best Character Driven Western Ever.	If you read only one Western in your life, let it be this one. The tired Western genre has suffered in recent decades. Lonesome Dove breaks this trend. McMurtry dives right into the heart of of a cowboys-on-a-cattle-drive cliche', and comes out with a piece of literature that competes with the best of any genre.<br />Lonesome Dove is intricately plotted and rich with imagery of western landscapes and nineteenth century cow towns. It also offers good action--like the water moccasin attack at the river ford--and moving love scenes. But the driving force is the characterizations. McMurtry has populated his book with some of the most fascinating folk you'll ever meet on paper. And the real gem is dialogue. Lonesome Dove has arguably some of the finest dialogue ever written. Gus McCrae's ramblings and witticisms are genius. You will like this book. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-13
US	49664433	RIQNERK0GYDRI	0440106079	320314095	The Blue Knight	Books	4	7	8	N	N	A Journey Behind The Scenes.	Who better to tell a cop's tale than an old cop? Wambaugh was there. He's able to translate his experiences in the LAPD into words we can feel and smell. The Blue Knight is a refreshing detour in the world of crime writing, a genre overloaded with static police procedurals and gory murder mysteries. The Blue Knight is a simple tale that humanizes a typical beat cop. At a time when cops were unpopular and routinely tagged as abusive Nazis or ignorant &quot;fuzz&quot; or &quot;pigs,&quot; Wambaugh takes the other side, realistically describing the unique ups and downs of an LA beat cop by delivering his good-guy protagonist, Bumper Morgan.<br />Bumper is human, likeable. He walks his well-worn beat, meting out justice not by the book, but by common sense. This book works well at all levels. -- ....	2001-02-12
US	49664433	R1PQ59PEVDHL27	0061096873	483282289	The Big Law	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Metaphor Mother-lode	Chuck Logan doesn't think like the rest of us. Research shows that the typical adult male experiences a sexual thought every fifteen seconds, on average. That's how often Logan thinks up a new metaphor.<br />The Big Law is a wonderfully constructed spellbinder. Ex-cop Phil Broker is called back into action in the unlikely role of trying to clear his ex-boss in the murder of his ex-wife. That's a lot of \\"ex's.\\" And there are more: exciting suspense, excellent machine-gun-like delivery, extraordinary plotting, and an excess of marvelously fresh phraseology.<br />Consider this small sampling: \\"... passive as a monastery staffed by eunuchs...glowworms of moonlight noodled between the drapes ... rumpled corduroy soul ... toothpick wreckage of a cornfield ... jerky Samurai rage ... ice gray day mushroomed into Snow City ... house like a blueprint of her hopes ... custom-fitted aura of loneliness... tiny galaxies of shattered glass ...veins seething with battery acid ... gamey as mold on a spoiled peach ... like a meticulous clerk who adds and subtracts lives ... racked by sick-dog shivers... neck flapped like broken film on a reel ...\\"<br />It's non-stop. Expect to be entertained.  -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of BIG ICE and WAKE UP DEAD	2001-02-04
US	49664433	RA3I1V77TRX4N	0896581837	280545059	The St.Croix Valley	Books	5	0	0	N	N	A Beautiful Book.	As a thirty-five-year resident of Stillwater, MN--one the world's most beautiful cities, located on the banks of the St. Croix River--I can attest to the quality of Debra Chial's book. This rather small pamphlet-like coffee table book contains stunning photographs of some of the river highlights, including fall foliage, bridges, bluffs, cascades, historic sites, trains, boats, and scenic cityscapes. With a well-crafted foreword on the history of the river, and clear captions throughout, this out-of-print masterpiece is worth locating for photo buffs and all Valley residents. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-03
US	49664433	R3J0ZNM0P6X8HE	0440173507	587689171	The Onion Field	Books	5	101	113	N	N	Wambaugh's Best.	The Onion Field is a top shelf book. It's the in-depth analysis of the true story of a 1963 event in Los Angeles. Two cops pull over two crooks in an otherwise routine traffic stop. But the desperate crooks get the drop on the cops, get their guns, kidnap them, drive them out to an onion field in the countryside, and murder one of them. One of the cops escapes death, but is haunted by guilt over the death of his partner and his inability to help. The murderers are captured, tried, convicted, and then retried over and over again on appeal.<br />The surviving cop is further savaged when the LAPD uses the case in training as an example of all the wrong things a cop can do when stopping and approaching cars.<br />Haunted by horrific memories, saddened by the loss of his partner, wracked by guilt, ostracized by his own, and repeatedly tormented by defense attorneys in one retrial after another, the cop suffers emotional meltdown. Wambaugh, takes us meticulously through the crime, second by second, and then tells the surviving cop's powerful and moving story: the destruction of a forgotten victim. This is as good as it gets. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-02-02
US	49664433	R2YGTGL3WRV30K	0440439884	909727634	Island of the Blue Dolphins	Books	5	15	19	N	N	Warm and Fuzzy.	Island of the Blue Dolphins is absolutely delightful. A young Indian girl jumps ship to be with her abandoned brother as her tribe evacuates an island. He dies anyway, and she is not rescued for eighteen years. The book is a classic island survival tale in the vein of Robinson Crusoe and Swiss Family Robinson. The female protagonist is constantly challenged by weather, wolves, her brother's death, loneliness, and the basic necessities of life: food, clothing, water, and shelter.<br />The book is aimed at younger readers and is brilliant in that O'Dell employs an writing style of understatement, simply telling the story without a lot of emotional embellishment, allowing young readers' imaginations to flesh it out and visualize the adventure and suspense themselves. The result is a moving tale that stays with a young reader for a lifetime. Read it. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-30
US	49664433	R1BYMT4UYMWSO8	0879054700	203961679	Don't Squat With Yer Spurs On! A Cowboy's Guide to Life (Bk.1)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Kudos From Cowboy Chris	Pretty much everything we need to know about getting by in life is contained in the sage sayings in this book. One of my favorites is, &quot;Never drink downstream from the herd.&quot; Some are simply funny. Others are downright insightful. This is the &quot;Confusius says&quot; of the American West. It makes a good gift, and the perfect thing to pass around at a gathering for laughs and conversation. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-26
US	49664433	RXDLKY30R3R7A	0896582345	821766625	M Is for Minnesota (My State's Alphabet Book)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	G Is For Good.	What a wonderful way to give little Minnesotans a sense of belonging, to make a connection with the heritage and beauty of their home state. Debra goes through the alphabet, one page per letter, with a short and well-conceived sentence about and a gorgeous photograph capturing the important images that make Minnesota the great state it is.<br />I'm proud to claim Debra as a personal friend. We share the same hometown, where she is a local celebrity, revered for her extraordinary skills as a photographer. One of her lesser known skills is that of singer. She is the lead vocalist in a country rock band named &quot;Deb &amp; the Other Guys.&quot; <br />As one of the &quot;Other Guys,&quot; I enthusiastically endorse &quot;M Is For Minnesota.&quot; I recommend buying two copies, one for the nursery, and the other for the coffee table. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-24
US	49664433	R7WLN3CQN9I8H	1579900224	764691709	The Clay Lover's Guide to Making Molds: Designing, Making, Using (Lark Ceramics Book)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	A Great Guide	This well thought out guide gets right to work explaining in clear, concise steps how to construct various types of clay molds. From basic one-piece molds to complex multi-piece molds, Clayton describes their design, construction, and infinite utility. The book is loaded with excellent color and black and white photographs. Some depict the tools and process. Others show a magnificent sampling of finished products. This guide can take the average pot-throwers hobby to the next level. Makes a pretty decent coffee table book too. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-21
US	49664433	R277MH296GGBXP	0740709402	407096427	Fame At Last: Who Was Who According to The New York Times Obituaries	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Here's A Unique Topic.	Master writer and researcher Jill Jonnes is back, this time teamed with the venerable John C. Ball. Fame At Last is the culmination of an unlikely look at a five-year history of New York Times obituaries. The New York Times obits are a veritable who's who of the recently deceased; only those who've been pioneers in their chosen field earn a coveted spot in these pages. This odd subject matter makes for fascinating reading.<br />Jonnes and Ball developed a database for the ten thousand or so obits in their study, classifying them by occupation, education, income level, obit length, and more. When massaged, their database reveals interesting patterns about these chosen few and highlights the value of higher education, particularly at renowned ivy league schools. Chapters are broken down by field of expertise--artists, politicians, writers, inventors, criminals, musicians, educators, etc. There's something for everyone.<br />For each chapter, Jonnes has culled a sampling of the most compelling obits, and devotes a page or two to anecdotal musing on each. In its essence, Fame At Last is a collection of short biographies on some of the world's most creative, intelligent, productive, or infamous personalities, some of whom we're familiar with, some we're not. Surprisingly fun and illustrative. Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-17
US	49664433	RKGWEUNB2GVBY	0306806975	930938403	The Discovery And Conquest Of Mexico	Books	5	24	27	N	N	Stranger Than Fiction.	This story might have been rejected as too far-fetched if it were offered as fiction, but it is history. The fact is that Bernal Diaz was an eyewitness to the entire Spanish conquest of the Aztecs, led by Hernan Cortes. The tale he so eloquently lays out for us in these pages ranks with the most interesting historical epics of all time.<br />Consider that when the Spanish arrived at the Mexican Gulf Coast in their galleons, the Aztecs had never seen ships, horses, steel swords, or even white men. In another bizarre twist, red-headed Cortes matched the description of  a great Aztec god whose arrival signaled the end of their civilization. When word of this omen reached the ears of the great Aztec leader Montezuma in Tenochtitlan (Mexico City), he wept in panic. This arrival is comparable to a huge space ship landing on the White House lawn, and having an army of ray-gun-wielding aliens emerge to conquer us.<br />As Diaz points out, Cortes was quite a leader and driven man. To prevent mutiny once he'd opted to pursue conquest inland, he destroyed his own ships. He then sets out, hopelessly out-numbered, to conquer the Aztecs. In the next year, his tiny army either wins over or defeats all comers--including a second arrival of Spanish intending to destroy him. He makes his way to the incredibly rich and magnificent city of Tenochtitlan, and then the excitement begins.<br />Over the centuries, Cortes' brutal tactics have come under criticism. Conquest is rarely politically correct. We must remember the time and context, though. Cortes and Spain were spanning the globe in search of gold, but also to convert the masses to Christianity. They believed they were doing God's work, particularly after being introduced to the Aztec's practice of human sacrifice. Diaz does not attempt to justify the motives. He simply tells the tale, and what a tale it is. Most highly recommended. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-09
US	49664433	R3UDCS6EK1Z87I	0802130623	359469126	Acid Dreams: The Complete Social History of LSD: The CIA, the Sixties, and Beyond	Books	5	40	42	N	N	Great Flashback.	This one caught me by surprise. It's not the stuffy this-is-all-the-bad-stuff-that-happened textbook I expected, but rather a fascinating and thoroughly enjoyable study of LSD and the CIA's role in the cultural and political maelstrom of the 1960s. Over the past thirty years, from Watergate to Zippergate, Americans have learned that their government is capable of some pretty amazing shenanigans. That helps what we read in this book seem more plausible. What Lee and Shlain document in Acid Dreams, with an impressive volume of research, is the CIA's enormous effort to develop mind-control methods. These included various psychedelic drugs--with LSD topping the list--hypnosis, and more. The potential uses of such control range from military to civilian--and to downright bizarre. For example, they discuss the unresolved question--in some minds--of whether Sirhan Sirhan was actually a CIA-created murdering automaton, a drug-and-hypnosis-induced killer, programmed to kill Robert Kennedy.<br />Some the things they reveal are far-fetched and may be impossible to ever prove one way or another, but there's plenty more that is incontrovertible. And everything in the book is interesting. Acid Dreams adds a fresh and wonderful perspective on this aspect of our recent history. A more recent book called &quot;Hepcats, Narcs, and Pipe Dreams,&quot; provides a complimentary education on this topic, covering a broader history of illegal drugs throughout America's past. Readers who enjoy Acid Dreams may want to follow up with this one.--Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-07
US	49664433	RIEQYAYFZDN1Q	006016848X	587492563	Men Are from Mars, Women Are from Venus: A Practical Guide for Improving Communication and Getting What You Want in Your Relationships	Books	4	25	35	N	N	Demilitarized Zone in the Battle of the Sexes.	Wives may not get too much from Grey's book, since they all seem to know everything already. \\"That's just common sense,\\" I think is what mine said after reading it. But for us men, this is useful. Now we can understand why our wives, with two minutes left in the big game, decide now is a good time to discuss the drapes.<br />Just having fun. The book is really very helpful. Using plenty of humorous anecdotes, Grey illustrates through example how conflicts arise, and how by making simple tactical and verbal changes, they can be avoided or resolved. Men Are From Mars helps explain to husbands that women talk not necessarily to reach a destination, but as a process of expression and emoting. I call it thinking with your mouth. He points out that men don't need to like it or comprehend it, just know that it's normal. She's not insane. The biggest bonus in the book is the tip on how to respond. Wives think that because we're not talking with them and don't even appear to be listening, we're either ignoring them or dead from the neck up. Which is largely true. But apparently all we have to do is occasionally nod our head, make brief eye contact, and say \\"uh huh\\" at appropriate times. I'm not sure that's going to help during the hurry-up offense, but it's a start.<br />He offers other helpful tips, like agreeing to discuss stuff only during TV commercials, when the man can mute the volume and focus his attention on his wife for a full three minutes. This works well, except with ESPN SportsCenter, since their commercials are usually pretty good.<br />The book is not beautifully written and tends to be redundant, but I think Grey does this intentionally to sink the message home to the denser male mind, almost a hypnotic or brainwashing effect. My wife and I had a lot of fun reading the book, and now use the examples to regularly tease each other. Hey, without humor, marriage can be a real drag.	2001-01-06
US	49664433	R2Y2JH1QX3COPB	0449219771	679377355	The Rise and Fall of the Third Reich	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Forty Years on the Top of the Heap.	It says a lot about any book to remain in print for forty years, especially historical non-fiction. Historians never rest. New information is always being uncovered. And, unfortunately, facts tend to change with the political winds. Nevertheless, Shirer's work is so comprehensive, fact-based, and readable that no other book has come along to displace it as the best volume on the complete history of Hitler's Germany. There are certainly other great books on the subject, but most deal with only specific aspects, not the full story.<br />Shirer was fated to write this book. He had location, access to the German documents, and training as a journalist. The world benefits from his five-year effort to leave a definitive record of the origins, machinations, and demise of the Third Reich, possibly the scariest and best organized evil empire mankind has ever seen. This complete and accurate record can play an important role in helping prevent future generations from making the same mistakes.<br />Though the 1500-page book is of daunting size, the topic is so amazing, and the text so readable, you hardly notice. What struck me after reading it was that, despite now knowing and understanding the individual parts, I still could not comprehend the whole. How was Hitler able to get such a large number people to behave so badly? It could be 15,000 words, and I still wouldn't know. Therein lies part of Hitler's mystique. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-05
US	49664433	R3H3D29XHALYAS	0966452011	620168176	Memphis Ribs	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Rib Tickler.	Gerald Duff's Memphis Ribs is a funny book. Its best quality lies in the dialogue engaged by its main character, Memphis police detective J.W. Ragsdale. I'm from Minnesota, where the best we can come up with is &quot;yah&quot; and &quot;you betcha,&quot; so I can't say how accurate the dialect is. But it was enjoyable reading. The comebacks and phrasing were hilarious. Ragsdale is an immediately likable protagonist. Duff's ability to write dialogue reminds me of Robert B. Parker.<br />The story develops nicely too: drugs and murder all set against the backdrop of Memphis and Ragsdale's passion for barbecued pork ribs. I was surprised by how much there is to learn about barbecuing pork. Up here we just throw a couple of beer-soaked brats on the grill and take 'em off when they split. Duff teaches us that the subtleties in cooking methodology and geographical origin of barbecued pork are as varied and consequential as in the world of fine wines.<br />Though the ending left me a bit confused, Memphis Ribs is overall a good effort.	2001-01-04
US	49664433	R17S4X5OZFISL5	0448416727	873292778	The House on the Cliff, the Hardy Boys #2	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Still Great After Decades.	I credit Franklin Dixon's Hardy Boys series with sparking my interest in literature, which led ultimately to the publication of my own suspense novel thirty years later. I started reading these books when I was seven, and eventually collected thirty or forty of them, reading them all two or three times. I recently found several in an old box in the basement, including &quot;House on The Cliff&quot; and &quot;Secret of the Old Mill.&quot; When I read one to my ten-year-old daughter, I discovered that time had not tarnished their quality nor distorted my fond memory of them. Now my daughter wants to read another.<br />Dixon utilizes two key techniques to capture kids' imagination and keep their attention. One is action. Kids get distracted easily. Dixon never gives them the chance. Exciting, dangerous, and mysterious stuff starts happening right away in each book and continues in every chapter. The other is to end each chapter with some unresolved event so suspenseful that kids must keep reading. I can't tell you how many times I stayed up late to keep reading a Hardy Boys mystery.<br />Every book in the series is as good as the next. Dixon created characters and a formula that worked, and he stuck with them consistently. They teach good old-fashioned values, and are fun and easy to read--the perfect step up from baby books to chapter books. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-03
US	49664433	R2Y2U84HJGEP03	192926500X	49147504	Charlie's Head...a series.	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Thought Provoking Children's Book	Charlie's Head is a better-than-average book for children. The illustrations are colorful, funny, and very well done. The story, about the stuff that comes out of Charlie's head, is unique, entertaining, and bound to stimulate the imagination and creative juices of all kids who read it. Should be a successful series. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-02
US	49664433	RU3ICO5POJR3B	044022635X	428379636	Triple Play: A Jake Hines Mystery	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Straightforward Police Procedural.	Triple Play is an easy read. The story starts out strong with an interesting murder mystery, an unidentified and mutilated corpse is discovered in a staged crime scene at the ball park in a small southern Minnesota town. Jake Hines, local police detective, is on the case. Before he gets very far, another body turns up. And then another.<br />Elizabeth Gunn has a strong and unique voice. Smatterings of humor, small town wisdom, and the-paths-we-choose-in-life irony spice the text up nicely. The police procedures come off as realistic, not overcooked or overstated. Jake Hines fits his setting. This is not Dirty Harry. Her choice to accept the challenge of female writer with male protagonist is interesting. She pulls this off very well. I thought her description of Jake Hines' role in his own failed marriage was quite insightful.<br />The book is relatively short, and I have to admit, I was getting a bit worried near the end that Gunn was going to leave the tale one twist short. It was beginning to look too obvious. But then she delivers. The mystery is not what appears obvious, and Jake Hines actually uses his brain (not his gun) to solve it. She then ties all the loose ends neatly. Triple Play finishes very strong, and leaves plenty of room for further development of the protagonist in the series ahead. Mystery fans will be satisfied. -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2001-01-01
US	49664433	RXXWZ2FEU61Z6	0801861659	965991067	Hep-Cats, Narcs, and Pipe Dreams: A History of America's Romance with Illegal Drugs	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Drug Policy 101	It's frightening to consider that most of the politicians and bureaucrats responsible for establishing illegal drug policy in America will have never read Jill Jonnes' book. Hep-Cats, Narcs, and Pipe Dreams should be mandatory reading for all such people, not necessarily because of the conclusions she reaches--there tends to be dispute in these--but because of the incredible wealth of historical information she has packed in it.<br />One surprise for the average reader of Hep-Cats is the rich history of illicit drug use in America. Drug use connotes Timothy Leary and the turbulent sixties, or the more recent crack cocaine epidemic. But in reality, numerous waves of drug abuse-illegal and otherwise--have swept the country, each with their own unique origins, consequences, and solutions. One of the benefits of studying history, is the opportunity to learn from past mistakes and avoid repeating them. It appears that America has been repeating its errors in using and controlling drugs for centuries. We're a liberal, open-minded society of fun-loving risk-takers. We delude ourselves into believing the latest and greatest drug has no consequences, or that we're at least of strong enough character to master it. The inevitable result is the vicious cycle of addiction (or dependency), crime, finger pointing, and policy experimentation.<br />Does the answer lie in prevention, treatment, education, law enforcement, stricter sentencing, or all of the above? We don't always agree, but Hep-Cats provides a thorough and accurate background, a wonderful educational foundation on which policymakers could base decisions and hopefully control arguably the single largest contributor to crime in America: drug abuse. But this is no textbook. Meticulously researched, thoughtfully constructed, and very well-written, Hep-Cats is an entertaining read for all. -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-31
US	49664433	R25L9U7FZBN2RJ	0316472964	687628453	We're Still Here: The Rise, Fall and Resurrection of the South Bronx	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Important Lessons.	Jill Jonnes' debut book will be of interest to all residents of New York City, past or present. It also contains important lessons on failed welfare policies and insurance practices.<br />She delivers sweeping historical background on the creation and ethnic make-up of the Bronx, overloaded with names and statistics, showing her abilities as a researcher. The Bronx was once a well-kept borough, but over the decades the ethnic mix changed and with it, the average income level. The Bronx began a long decline, unchecked by politicians. By the mid 70s, fueled by rampant crime, drug abuse, and a welfare policy that paid out $2,000 to $3,000 in emergency funds to victims of fire, the city was set ablaze. In a ten-year period, a staggering 80% of structures in the South Bronx were damaged or destroyed by fire--predominantly by arson. This left a city landscape reminiscent of nuclear holocaust.<br />But as the title, We're Still Here, hints, the city still lives, and a motivated group of concerned residents and politicians fight to resurrect their home. It's worth trying to locate a copy of this out-of-print book for the fascinating and complex history of this storied borough. -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-30
US	49664433	R2HQNYC2CTYXSF	0451162072	639916239	Pet Sematary (Signet)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Genuinely Scary.	When Edgar Allen Poe pretty much single-handedly invented the horror genre, he did it by combining unique and gory topics with a poetic approach to prose that, while difficult for many modern-day readers to enjoy, certainly accomplished one thing: atmosphere. You cannot read a Poe story without seeing black, feeling gloom, and all but hearing the creaky doors and floorboards and smelling the dank and musty rooms he describes. Stephen King achieves this as well in Pet Sematary (a clever title).<br />King books are always well-written and usually creative, but not always truly frightening. Pet Sematary is the scariest King book I've read yet. Though not poetic, he creates an atmosphere in this book that literally changes the mood of the reader.<br />The basic plot involves antagonist Louis Creed's discovery of a pet cemetery located on a sacred  Indian burial site near Ludlow, Maine. When Creed's cat dies, he buries it there, and is then shocked to find the cat restored to life a few days later. The Creed's son is later killed by a truck, so of course Creed digs him up and reburies him in the special pet cemetery in the hopes that he, too, will be reanimated. Suffice it to say that the cat, though alive, is not quite the same, and you'll have to read the story to find out what happens to the son. This one is chilling. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-29
US	49664433	ROGQC2ZXUVE60	0451159535	327822364	Coma (Signet Books)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Still A Good Read.	Coma was one of my favorite books of a couple decades ago, and when I revisited it recently I was surprised to find it still quite enjoyable, despite being somewhat dated in terms of the medical technology. That's because good writing lasts a long time. Strong characters, well-developed plot, driving suspense, it's all there.<br />I'm not trained in medicine, but I certainly got the impression that the book was thoroughly researched and technically accurate for its time. I can envision interns, nurses, doctors and other medical practitioners now laughing at how things have changed in the field since Cook wrote it. But maybe that's a reason to read the book. What a great study in the recent history of medicine and hospital procedure. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author or Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-28
US	49664433	R2OI6KUH386XW4	006101351X	637283524	The Perfect Storm: A True Story of Men Against the Sea	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The Perfect Story.	As a Minnesotan, I recall the great Halloween storm of 1991, a full-blown blizzard with gale force winds, sub-zero windchill, and nineteen inches of snow. My kids remember it as &quot;the Halloween that never was.&quot; As fate would have it, this massive front blew east and eventually collided in the North Atlantic with two other patterns, one of which was a hurricane coming up from the Caribbean. This clashing triad of weather phenomena resulted in the storm of the century--perhaps the storm of the millennium--what Junger calls The Perfect Storm.<br />While Minnesota's youth lamented the loss of candy (since the weather prevented them from trick-or-treating) a small group of commercial fishermen lost their lives. This is an absolutely gripping tale of true-life adventure, tragedy, heroism, and fate. Crafted with just the right amount of scientific background on the nature of weather and the business of swordfishing, Junger drives the story forward with a mastery of chronology and understatement.<br />I was shocked that rescue efforts would proceed in conditions so horrific that 100-foot waves would rip buoys from their anchor. I was captivated by Junger's rendering of the Coast Guard helicopter crew's plight, and awed by their courage and professionalism. His description of them bailing out into those seas had me holding my breath and bracing for impact. This one deserves its broad appeal. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-27
US	49664433	ROHG5VQH2ZTXI	0399144463	305463091	Who Moved My Cheese?: An Amazing Way to Deal with Change in Your Work and in Your Life	Books	3	23	30	N	N	Deceptively Good.	My first reaction after reading Who Moved The Cheese was shock that it had become so popular. After all, it is not an extraordinary bit of prose, nor is its message-that we should all learn to deal with change--unique. It is a simple moral told simply. But therein lies the beauty. Johnson could have used ten-dollar words and written a thesis on the same concept, but the audience would have been miniscule. In this book he achieves maximum exposure for this important lesson in life by making it short and readable for the masses. This epigrammatic tale is well done and timeless.<br />I'm encouraged that the message has become so popular. One of the drawbacks of the incredible success of modern American society is the tendency to become complacent, fat and sassy, arrogant;  the notion, enabled by Government entitlement programs, know-your-rights lawyers, and immature parents, that we all somehow deserve everything we have, and that we're victims who must fight against the injustice of it all when denied our just desserts. I believe that what Johnson has tapped into is one of the characteristics common to the world's most successful and happy people. They are neither Hem nor Haw (characters from the book), but rather Sniff and Scurry. While the rest of us wallow in self-pity, anger, and bitterness, paralyzed by self-doubt and indecision when someone has the audacity to \\"move our cheese,\\" these people have already moved on, past fear, past retribution, eagerly accepting life's next challenge. These are America's CEO's, politicians, artists, entertainers, athletes, inventors, and adventurers. If more people read this book, maybe America can regain a bit of the can-do, self-determined spirit embodied by heroes like Ben Franklin, Abe Lincoln, Sergeant York, and Audie Murphy. -Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-26
US	49664433	R1DFF4UY932UN6	0306805863	538953080	Comanches: The Destruction of a People	Books	5	30	36	N	N	An Impressive History of An Impressive People	If it's possible to write five hundred pages of historical non-fiction without bias, Fehrenbach has done it in Comanches. The book is devoid of rhetoric, overstatement, or preaching. He is a man absolutely committed to fact. What he presents in Comanches is a sweeping tome on the origins and ultimate destruction of a fascinating culture.<br />Vast in scope, Comanches begins with an anthropological study of the warring tribe's development and domination of rival Indians. They were nomadic people, living in harmony with the plains, sustained by the seemingly-infinite buffalo herds. More than anyone else, the Comanches are responsible for America's English-from-the-East-coast heritage rather than what would have been domination by the Spaniards coming north out of Mexico. The Comanches' fierce resistance delayed European domination of the West by several centuries.<br />Fehrenbach's treatment of the Comanche's adoption of the horse, introduced to North America by the Spaniards, is brilliant. Anyone who has ever ridden a horse bareback knows how difficult it is to stay aboard, and can't help but be in awe of the \\"horse people's\\" ability to ride at full gallop and accurately shoot arrows or, later, rifles.<br />The book finishes with the sad destruction of the Comanche culture by the relentless and overwhelming advance of European \\"civilization\\" from the East.<br />In a word, Fehrenbach's scholar-level book leaves you with a deep respect for the Comanches. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-24
US	49664433	R30FMAK4FZYSDY	0446525871	156360117	The Ice Limit	Books	5	39	40	N	N	Completely Enjoyable.	These boys did their homework. The Ice Limit is a complete work. The premise--an expedition to retrieve the world's largest meteorite from an inhospitable Chilean island near Tierra del Fuego for a billionaire's museum--is worthy. The plotting is above par. Plenty of twists and page-turning suspense. And the surprise ending, foreshadowed throughout but difficult to predict, is a special treat, ratcheting the tale up another notch on the Richter scale of excellence.<br />But two things make The Ice Limit a best-seller and sure candidate for a movie. One is the characterizations. With nearly ten major characters, it must have been a daunting task to keep them well-defined, easily identifiable, and fresh. Readers want characters, not caricatures. Child and Preston make their efforts look easy and transparent. My favorite was Eli Glinn, head of the engineering firm hired to scoop up the heaviest object ever moved by Man. He was unique, sort of a mixture of Roddenberry's Spock and Verne's Captain Nemo.<br />The other bonus was the science. I almost thought they had overdone it at times, but by book end I was simply left impressed. And it's not the depth of their understanding of one particular subject; it's all the subjects. They researched everything. Meteorites, Chile, Antarctica, navigation, oil tankers, periodic charts, meteorology, structural engineering, naval ordnance, electronics, and on and on. They don't necessarily beat you upside the head with it. But they do prove that they're two smart guys. Bravo! --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-23
US	49664433	R3LK47XVYHS0SE	0380002930	498635851	Watership Down	Books	5	10	11	N	N	A Rippin' Good Yarn.	Watership Down will survive as one of the great classics of Twentieth Century literature. It is the anthropomorphic tale of a rabbit warren that must flee the impending destruction of its bunny hole in the English countryside by advancing urban sprawl. They set off on a journey of adventure and discovery toward their new home, Watership Down.<br />The beauty of the book is in its deceptive complexity. As a multi-layered work, it appeals to a wide variety of readers by satisfying their needs at many different levels. For those who just like rabbits or warm and fuzzy animal tales, Watership Down competes with The Incredible Journey, Black Beauty, or anything by Disney. For those interested in intriguing plot-based fiction with good action and character development, look no further. And surprisingly, for the discriminating reader of literary fiction, Watership Down provides a sophisticated corollary to the ironies of advanced human civilization, reminiscent of Animal Farm, yet less sardonic. A great read for all ages. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-22
US	49664433	R31V8JUL6KEHQY	031027771X	530273080	The Late Great Planet Earth	Books	3	9	17	N	N	Interesting Fiction.	Prophets have it made. Immortality awaits those who simply mumble a few clever phrases hinting at future catastrophe. Couch it in religious double talk, and throw in a few dates for good effect. Invariably, the wanna-believers will twist and parse the text to suit their fancy, picking momentous historic events that seem to fit the references and claiming the prophet saw it all in advance.<br />Nostradamus's &quot;hister&quot; is a prime example. We've been told for decades that this was obviously a reference to Hitler. Whatever. Edgar Cayce, the Sleeping Prophet, is another revered one, owner of a purportedly 92% prophetic accuracy. Never mind that his greatest prediction of millennial disaster failed to play out.<br />The Late Great Planet Earth falls in this milieu. Hal Lindsey exerts maximum effort to tie a slew of Biblical prophecies to past events, and to provide a glimpse of the Armageddon due any day now. Luckily, this dated book is now thirty years old, and we're all still here. It's enough to make you feel sorry for those Californians who committed suicide to join the space ship hiding behind Hale-Bopp comet. If only they'd waited and checked out a few more of their leader's prophecies.<br />For skeptical or open minded readers, this book is enjoyable. Parts of it are very interesting, thought-provoking, even compelling. But by the end, you see the many stretches Hal has had to make to prove his points, and realize further that the same prophecies could be tagged to any number of events and called accurate.<br />For wanna-believers this book is deadly dangerous. Lindsey will convince you that the end is near. You will quit your job, sell your possessions, leave your spouse, and move to Waco, or Jonestown, or L.A. Don't read it. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-21
US	49664433	R278NV8BMBASER	0380703882	948818246	Communion: A True Story	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Best Book on the Subject	Whitley Strieber broke new ground with Communion, capturing the nation's attention and forcing serious consideration of that which is improbable or impossible, depending on your viewpoint: alien abduction.<br />Whitley, an up-and-coming novelist with a promising future, risked all by courageously revealing his belief that he has been an &quot;abductee&quot; for most of his life, repeatedly taken, examined, and manipulated by aliens of unknown origin, for incomprehensible reasons that he later attempts to explain in subsequent books. Financially, the book was a success, but he has paid a price, labeled a kook and ridiculed in interview after interview.<br />The power of this wonderfully written book is proven by more than its popular appeal. It initiated a coming-out of other abductees, which continued to the point of becoming a fad, and then a joke, similar to the contemporary psychiatric phenomenon of claiming one was abused by Satan worshipers as a youth. This is sad because--whatever the cause--there is a group of people to whom these events are very real. Whitley convinces the reader that he is one of these. With expressive style and absolute control of the English language, he allows us to witness the terror he is forced to deal with.<br />Whether or not you believe what happens to Whitley is caused by aliens from outer space, creatures from the center of the earth, bad dreams, or a creative imagination, the book is extraordinarily well done and worth reading. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-13
US	49664433	R3J3PQR3WEOUDN	1558216847	782333026	The Long Walk: The True Story of a Trek to Freedom	Books	5	444	476	N	N	A Story You'll Never Forget.	Although The Long Walk is well written, that has nothing to do with why it's a good book. People should read this book because it chronicles perhaps the most extraordinary true story of human endurance in recorded history.<br />Slavomir Rawicz is unjustly imprisoned by the Communist Russians early in World War II. He is confined to a cell so small that he literally cannot sit, but must sleep by collapsing with his knees against the wall and his feet steeped in his own waste. He is later transported to Siberia by train, and then marched through the cold countryside to a Soviet Gulag, witnessing the death by exposure and exhaustion of other unfortunate captives along the way. In the prison camp he is set in forced labor, kept in horrendous conditions, over-worked, and underfed.<br />Near the end of his rope, Rawicz and a handful of companions orchestrate a daring and desperate escape, and then proceed to run for their lives, on foot, toward freedom in India--4,000 miles away. Then the fun begins. They must conquer the frozen Siberian tundra, the Gobi desert, the Himalayan Mountains, starvation, the Soviets, and their own inner demons.<br />Slavomir's ordeal overshadows every other survival tale I've every read, including Admiral Scott's Polar expedition and Krakauer's Everest disaster. This is up there with the Donner Expedition in terms of grim conditions and the indomitable  human spirit. Trust me. If you've got a teenager who's complaining because they think they have it rough, let 'em read this one. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-11
US	49664433	R1OFE5PLFPY84U	0345353358	770452534	Missing Time	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Important Book.	In Missing Time, Budd Hopkins does something more writers on the subject of UFOs should do: he considers evidence rather than just rant about aliens and flying saucers. He investigates a phenomenon common to a number of people, why they seem to black out for hours at a time and later find themselves safe and sound with no recollection of how they got there or what they'd been doing. These are average people with no other apparent similarities.<br />When Budd employs hypnosis to enhance memory recall, shocking details and incredible similarities of the events that occur during these &quot;missing time&quot; episodes is revealed. Believe it or not; it's up to you. But the subject is fascinating, the evidence compelling, and Budd Hopkins does a fine job of reporting the mystery. This book is a must read for all UFO buffs and debunkers alike. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-10
US	49664433	R2FNC8IPXAYCIS	0345434811	665682184	The Last Full Measure: A Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	16	17	N	N	A Chip Off The Old Block.	The general consensus seems to be that Jeff Shaara is a good writer, but not up to his father's standards. I have to disagree. This book was thoroughly enjoyable and quite moving. Not only that, Jeff manages to write the book in the same style as his father, likely in a successful attempt to tie the trilogy together in similar prose. This is a lot harder to do than one might suspect.<br />Also, to Jeff's credit, the scope of The Last Full Measure is greater than The Killer Angels, which focused exclusively on Gettysburg. Jeff takes up the war after Lee's defeat at Gettysburg, and follows it to its conclusion at Appomattox. His rendering of the horrific conditions of Lee's army as it tries to escape the inevitable, and the poignant moments of the final battles and the climax at the courthouse are as good as historical writing gets. I believe Jeff surpasses Michael's ability to tap into and reveal the minds and emotions of the key players, Lee, Grant, Chamberlain, and others.<br />Don't discount or skip this book based on the comparative naysayers' comments. I place The Last Full Measure on the top shelf of Civil War literature. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-07
US	49664433	R3BQ32NBMQOEHN	0345348109	227222206	The Killer Angels: The Classic Novel of the Civil War (Civil War Trilogy)	Books	5	11	13	N	N	The Best One-Battle Book Ever.	Virtually every seasoned Civil War buff has already read The Killer Angels, but there is a new generation of history readers coming along that must be made aware of this brilliant and compelling work of art. Even readers not particularly interested in military history would enjoy this wonderfully written and fact-based account of the Battle of Gettysburg, a major turning point in the war between the states.<br />Shaara's account of Joshua Chamberlain's crucial defense of Little Roundtop and his repelling bayonet charge against a veteran Rebel force that had never tasted defeat will send chills up your spine. Red-blooded Americans north and south will cheer at the bravery, while simultaneously blanching at the folly and gore of a pitched battle.<br />Shaara brings several things to this book. Fantastic characterizations is one. By book's end you feel as if you know and understand each major character and how and why they acted as they did. Ability to write is another. His descriptions of scene, battle, time, and emotion are top notch. The story pours out like fine wine. Shaara also breaks new ground with The Killer Angels by fictionalizing a historical event. This is a  technique that will be copied many times over. His thorough research is to be commended as well. Shaara is that rare mix of good writer and historian.<br />The only question I was left with at the end was why Lee, touted as such a military genius, would proceed with the ill-advised and ultimately tragic Pickett's Charge. I found the answer in Shelby Foote's &quot;The Civil War.&quot; Lee, abandoned by Jeb Stuart's Cavalry, over-extended in enemy territory, out-numbered, under-supplied, and under the gun, returned to the one thing that had never failed him in campaign after campaign: the bold frontal attack that always seemed to rout the Yankees. It's hard to understand Lee's motivations without getting a broader sense of his prior actions. I recommend both books. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author WakeUp Dead.	2000-12-06
US	49664433	R1YTVD2OFA8FLA	0448060043	718203903	Alice in Wonderland and Through the Looking Glass (Illustrated Junior Library)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Must Read.	It's amazing that many people have never read this book. After all, it's virtually impossible to find an American unfamiliar with the story, the characters, and the instantly recognizable illustrations. Yet, in truth, plenty of adults have never plowed through the brilliant but dated prose contained within the pages of Alice In Wonderland. And most of those never will because it is perceived as a children's tale and a book that they needn't bother with since they already know the basic story. This is a mistake.<br />Alice In Wonderland is a unique and clever book. The fact that interest in it has survived so long is testament to its quality. The bizarre characters, which visually and playfully appeal to children, converse in clever riddles and political subtext that go over their heads and talk directly to more intellectual adults. This is a ground-breaking work, so completely off-the-wall that it's hard to imagine it having been published so many decades ago.<br />Through The Looking Glass is Carroll's return to Wonderland, a special treat for readers disappointed by Alice In Wonderland's premature ending. The fun and mystery continue and improve in this second volume with the classic and irony-filled chess game. <br />Chess-playing cards, hookah-smoking mushroom dwellers, shape-changing elixirs, and disappearing cats. This is an adult fable. Carroll invites us into his dream, and we share his fantastic experience through the clarity of a writer's genius. Don't skip these books. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-12-04
US	49664433	R1UUA5WEIXKWW8	0425174018	398480832	Hush Money (Spenser)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Excellent Detective Fun.	Hush Money was my first Parker read. It won't be my last. His name has been familiar for years, but until recently his books hadn't floated atop my reading pile. Now I know why he's so highly regarded in the mystery field. Here's what I discovered:<br />Robert B. Parker is a master of dialogue. Virtually anyone who puts 80,000 words on paper is bound to come up with a clever phrase or two. Parker does it page after page. He has the uncanny ability to drop in the perfect comeback to every question and comment. Smiles and the occasional out-loud laugh are the result for readers. I haven't had so much fun reading a book in years.<br />The main characters, private investigator Spenser and his black sidekick Hawk, are very strong and well-done. One could argue that the characters are stereotypes--even cliche'. But they are  examples as good as you'll find: witty, brave, irreverent, strong, unpretentious, open-minded, fair-minded, loyal, sexually magnetic, appropriately violent, and clever.<br />The shortcomings that prevent delivery of the fifth star are that Spenser's love interest, Susan, is too good to be true; Spenser's (and Hawk's) high vocabulary and reasoning are inconsistent with his blue-collar, average-guy image; and the plot is rather uninspiring. But that misses the point of this book. You read the book not for the gray matter challenge of the underlying mystery, but for the sparse and near-perfect utterings of Spenser, a classic, Chandleresque private detective.	2000-11-30
US	49664433	R2LXXL77JUORC2	0395611539	7737472	The Big Sky	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A Montana-sized Achievement.	Guthrie's incredible characters, Dick, Boone, and Jim, personify the near-mythical mountain man we later see stereotyped as Jeremiah Johnson, Grizzly Adams, and countless others. Guthrie defines these simple and compelling wanderers of the verdant yet unforgiving West at a time when wild animals and Indians still ruled.<br />The Big Sky is an American history lesson. It is a preservation in beautiful prose of a rich landscape now largely gone. It is the dictation of the dream shared by many a young male (and plenty in mid-life-crisis) to roam free, shed all societal complications, live off the land, and to face all fears. It is one of my favorite books, matched only by The Frontiersman by Alan Eckert.<br />The writing contains a great balance of scene, plot, characterization, and action. It's readable by all from age twelve on up. You just can't go wrong with this one. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-29
US	49664433	R4THLE7IDLX4F	0486404277	614019833	Robinson Crusoe (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Because It's A Classic.	Man has had fascination with the idea of surviving the ordeal of island castaway for all of recorded history. Swiss Family Robinson, Lord Of The Flies, and Gilligan's Island are proof of that. All of us, it seems, imagine ourselves dealing with the deprivation and hardship of solo survival on a tropical isle. And we enjoy reading about others doing the same. Defoe's version of this oft-used plot is one of the first, and in a sense, defines the genre of the survival suspense novel.<br />The book was written in a different time when writing styles called for or at least tolerated verbosity. The result is a slow-moving tale that many of today's readers will find boring. Once past that, however, one can appreciate the richly detailed and historically enlightening story with strong characterization and important, timeless message.<br />Robinson Crusoe is a true literary classic, and as such deserves the attention of all serious literature buffs. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-28
US	49664433	R311H8QPY6PZEN	0394419480	432946773	The Civil War: A Narrative: Fort Sumter to Perryville (Vol. I)	Books	5	50	53	N	N	A Definitive Work	How can one man possibly know so much about such a large and complex historical event? The research required, the understanding of the political issues, and the insight into the motivations of the many key players involved boggles the mind. Foote somehow manages to get his hands completely around the enigmatic thing we know as the Civil War and deliver it to us in clear, complete and compelling fashion. This is the Ring Trilogy of historical military literature. Other worthy efforts such as The Killer Angels or, more recently, The Last Full Measure may delve deeper into one particular battle or limited campaign, but no other work provides such a comprehensive and detailed picture of the entire conflict.<br />The scope is so impressive. Foote does not focus solely on the battles, but rather drills down to the core political and moral issues so that we see the whole chess match. And his rendering of the characters? Words fail me. We follow Stonewall Jackson, or Robert E. Lee, or McClellan, or U.S. Grant for a hundred pages, mesmerized, and then cry out as he swings the scene to another theatre. But two pages later we don't care; we're sucked in again.<br />Foote captures the emotion of the time. His love of the subject is apparent. It is amazing to read the details of such a divisive and horrific event, to taste Lincoln's frustration over McClellan's waffling, to cheer the audacious achievements of Lee and Jackson, to wonder at Lee's tragic march toward Appomattox, and to empathize with both sides along the way. Shelby Foote has done justice to a defining moment in the history of our great union, leaving readers north and south proud to be Americans. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-26
US	49664433	R1VPGT6QYI037P	068482292X	635801792	What Remains to Be Discovered : Mapping the Secrets of the Universe, the Origins of Life, and the Future of the Human Race	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Heavy Lifting.	Though I am not schooled in any of the sciences and my only motivation to read the book was my endless curiosity, I got quite a bit of information and enjoyment out of What Remains To Be Discovered. John Maddox possesses an impressive intellect and the ability to convey the world's most complex theorems in a way many of us can appreciate. To read the book is to receive a graduate degree in physics, chemistry, biology, and mathematics--or least the Cliff Notes version.<br />I was left with more questions than answers, but I think that's the point. We'll never know it all. I was fascinated by the riddles and incomprehensible beauty and perfection of life and matter at the sub-atomic levels our knowledge now reaches. The impossibility of how things apparently work is enough to secure one's faith in a supreme being--or not, depending on your point of view.<br />I really enjoyed the section in the end in which Maddox looks at the probabilities of global catastrophe, such as meteor impacts, global warming, etc. I found one gem in there so intriguing, I've made it part of the premise in my next novel (Big Ice, ISBN #1-59286-587-9).<br />This book is clearly not for every reader. Those with marginal vocabulary or reading skills--or no interest in science--will be turned off immediately. This is sophisticated stuff. It's written about as readable as you can make it, but for some that won't be enough. For Brainiacs who would rather slit their wrists than read a Louis L'Amour novel, this book is a dream come true. Prepare to exercise your brain. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-24
US	49664433	R20QPG2ZFEMBYB	0380012863	129257055	Jonathan Livingston Seagull	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Top Flight Anthropomorphism	Beginning writers who scan the Writers Market will find a common admonition from publishers listing there: don't send us humanized animal stories. Why? Because they've all been done before. Classics like Animal Farm and Watership Down define the successes of this overused technique. Jonathan Livingston Seagull shares a throne among the best of these.<br />It's a short and simple tale about a seagull who loves to fly and wants to do his best at it. The writing is lyrical and flowing, with beautiful, almost poetic language. The story line is rich with metaphor, spirituality, and subtle meaning. It is an uplifting story, one that adds weight to the good side of the scale of humanity.<br />I first read this book as teenager shortly after it came out in 1970. At that age and at that time this was a powerful book. It still is. I think it will be appreciated by idealistic collegians more than cynical forty-somethings, but everyone will benefit. If you don't like this book, you'd better get yourself checked out. You might be psychotic. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-18
US	49664433	R3OVVYS51Z5BJR	0895262436	266973565	Sellout: The Inside Story of President Clinton's Impeachment	Books	5	107	118	N	N	Bipartisan Bashing.	Anyone who cares enough about freedom and democracy to take the time to cast a vote must read David Schippers' book, &quot;Sell Out.&quot; Schippers establishes himself as a fair and independent thinker with high integrity, and then proceeds to tell the true story behind the impeachment of Bill Clinton, revealing the liars and cowards on both sides of the aisle. It's good reading. <br />But the real story in this book is the revelation on what Schippers was working on before Zippergate pushed it to the sidelines. To this he devotes a few dozen pages early in the book in which he details his investigation of Al Gore's activities with the INS prior to the 1996 election. In an effort to expedite the naturalization of one million immigrants who might be more likely to vote Democratic, Team Gore pressured the INS to suspend standard background check procedures on applicants for US citizenship. The result was 75,000 convicted felons naturalized--20% of whom had re-offended as US citizens within two years--and another 168,000 naturalized without proper fingerprinting and FBI criminal history checks. Clinton/Gore imported criminals to maintain power. Literally thousands of US citizens were needlessly robbed, raped, and murdered as a result.<br />In light of the other Democratic voter fraud allegations such as giving away cigarettes in Milwaukee, touring the jails to register misdemeanor crooks, and the mysterious disappearing 50,000-vote Bush lead in Florida late on election night, the INS debacle is something worth reading about. Most people have never heard this story. The mainstream Press won't touch it. This is arguably the worst political offense ever committed in this country, if true. Schippers, a life-long Democrat who voted twice for Clinton, shares the facts and makes a convincing case. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-16
US	49664433	R5DTTQ3G9IN2I	0316690619	95144783	Cradle and All	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Shades of The Omen.	James Patterson has a unique writing style: short chapters, short sentences, blatant overuse of italics for emphasis, and alternating point of view to move his story. He breaks all the rules of writing--and brakes for nothing on his way to success. The result is a romping good story that reads at blistering pace.<br />A third of the way into the story--with two pregnant virgins, a dead Pope, and the prophecy of Fatima about to be revealed--we are reminded of The Omen and The Exorsist, and begin to suspect we know the outcome. But we are wrong. He was only toying with us. He wanted us to think what we thought. Patterson then pulls off a surprise ending that most fiction lovers will appreciate for its creativity.<br />Patterson's style will be loved by many and disliked by a few. This is not a deep tale. It will not test your faith. It will not convert you. With some adult sex themes and the occasional potty-mouth word, it is not a book for children. It is not of the caliber of The Exorcist. What it is, is fast, furious, and fun entertainment. A true &quot;page-turner.&quot; --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-14
US	49664433	RE2RTQWFHBJJ3	0446359866	806938577	Presumed Innocent: A Novel	Books	5	12	14	N	N	A Tremendous Book	Scott Turow takes on two of fiction writing's most difficult tasks in Presumed Innocent--and succeeds marvelously! One is to write in first person narrative. This is an overused technique, usually employed by rookies, that makes more sense in literary novels than this type. It certainly makes telling a complex story such as this more difficult because of the limitations in how information can be passed to the reader. The biggest problem is in making the writing readable. Without great talent, first person narratives quickly become bogged down with repetitive &quot;I did this ... but then I saw that... and then I went there.&quot; Turow makes this narrative invisible, allowing the crucial &quot;suspension of disbelief.&quot;<br />His second accomplishment is to write a book with a truly surprise ending. You will not see it coming, and you will be amazed. His understanding of the legal process, of which he writes, is obvious. His characters are interesting and very three dimensional. The movie is good too, but read the story first. My hat is off to Turow. He is a professional writer of the first order, and Presumed Innocent is one the best works in the genre. When I grow up, I want to write just like Scott Turow. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-09
US	49664433	R1HY9QLJ02F5QT	0670870897	615847506	Without a Doubt	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Enlightening	Yes, I followed the trial, and no, I'm not ashamed. It was a fascinating, history-in-the-making spectacle. At some point I knew I would buy a book from one of the players, but--believing that O.J. was guilty--I refused to put my money in the hands of anyone writing on the defense side. Marsha's book seemed like the right choice. I wasn't disappointed.<br />She brings us behind the scenes to see the inner workings of the legal process with graphic, sausage-making-like detail. We see how legal technicalities, a weak judge (Lance Ito), racially-biased jurors, media influence, and an outmatched prosecution team can lead to such a blatant miscarriage of justice as the acquittal of Mr. Simpson. There was so more to it than Mark Furhman, the LAPD, the &quot;race card,&quot; or &quot;jury nullification.&quot; One is lead to the conclusion that opening celebrity trials to the media is a huge mistake, and that because of rules of evidence and &quot;prejudicial influence,&quot; the jury in this case knew fewer of the pertinent facts than the casual TV viewer.<br />Readable but not eloquent, the writing delivers a good sense of Marcia's character--like it or not--and a few juicy tidbits on the other players. Someday a more definitive and comprehensive historical summary of this case will be written by an independent professional writer. Until then, Maria's book is the way to go. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-07
US	49664433	R2Z1LD7223F2BW	0440217490	233998989	A Dangerous Fortune	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A Safe Bet.	This is not Ken Follett's best work, but that still makes it twice as good as most fiction. Follett introduces us to the world of English finance in the late 1800s. The rich period detail and somewhat dry subject matter tend to make this a plodding tale a times, but well worth the effort.<br />The story opens with the mysterious drowning death of a student at a boy's school. Was it murder? This questions hangs for decades as Follett wends his way through the Victorian upper crust and its seedy underbelly, and ultimately--as you know it must--the answer has tremendous and exciting implications for the dueling families we've come to know.<br />Follett's ability to present a large cast of fully-fleshed and complex characters, who follow motivations that take hundreds of pages to define, is unparalleled. Never in his books do you have to say to yourself, &quot;Oh yeah, right.&quot;<br />The scope of the novel is impressive. I call it sophisticated fiction. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-06
US	49664433	RZ2OWCSXIH6Y9	0553275569	678579754	The Right Stuff	Books	5	4	6	N	N	The Write Stuff!	What do you get when you mix an historian and a world-class writer? The Right Stuff. Tom Wolfe takes us back to a black and white time when America was apple pie and comic book heroes--at least in nostalgic hindsight. Amidst these glory years of the '50s and '60s there was trouble brewing, however. The Russians were winning the Space Race. Up to the plate step a group of true blue American heroes, men like John Glenn, Gus Grissom, Alan Shepard, and Chuck Yeager, men with the Right Stuff. Together they overcame technical barriers, tragedy, and the limits of human endurance to prevent the Soviets from controlling Space, the high ground from which they could drop nukes on us at will.<br />This superbly told story brings history alive. We are brought into the lives and heads of these complex real-life characters, family men who risked 25% mortality rates to &quot;press the envelope&quot; first as test pilots and then as astronauts. We cheer as the records fall and mourn the loss of those who &quot;crash and burn.&quot;<br />Full research, high use of language, insightful character analysis, and exciting drama. You can't go wrong with the Right Stuff. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-05
US	49664433	R3CX55Y4WBSYRD	0671023187	590280047	Term Limits	Books	4	55	63	N	N	Action Packed.	Vince Flynn manages to keep the action moving at break-neck speed for over 600 pages. There are practically no slow spots. The premise is fairly preposterous, and the climax totally unbelievable, but who cares? This is fiction, and an exciting and enjoyable read. There are more plot twists than a Clinton Presidency and more shoot-'em-ups than a Clint Eastwood movie. Vince doesn't even slow down long enough for any kissy-face.<br />The comparison to Tom Clancy is inescapable, so here goes. While the writing quality in Term Limits is professional, I have the sense after reading numerous Clancy novels that his language skills are bit more high brow. There is a higher level of sophistication in Clancy books. And while Flynn obviously did a lot of research, Clancy does more. But for that reason, many readers will prefer Flynn's books. Clancy tends to focus more on technology; Flynn goes right for the gut. Action, action, action.<br />This is a must-read for political thriller lovers, and a good choice for all other suspense fiction readers. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-11-04
US	49664433	R2JP785EZP58AS	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	3	5	6	N	N	Not Book Length Material	I read Into The Wild after finishing Krakauer's Into Thin Air, which is easily a five-star book. This one was a letdown. Jon is a marvelous writer. He has wonderful control of the English language. He's a deep thinker and is able to convey complex thoughts and emotions through his writing. He does this again in Into The Wild, however, the whole book seemed like a stretch to me, as if he wanted to write a book, but didn't have any other good ideas at the time. So he took on the compelling story of Chris McCandless.<br />McCandless was a smart kid from a good family who for whatever reason left home and a promising future to try survival on his own in the Alaskan wilderness for a summer. He doesn't make it. <br />This is something many people contemplate doing at some time in their life. I myself spent a month in the woods as a teenager, but came back out before I starved to death. It is an interesting quirk of human nature. It is something worth writing about in article length with regard to one case, or book length as a treatise on this aspect of the human condition, showing numerous examples. But Krakauer tries to expand McCandless' story alone to a full book, and though he tries mightily, he fails to flesh it out that far.<br />Judging from the sales and other reviews of the book, many readers do not share this opinion. I wouldn't argue with them. I view my complaint as highly subjective, and the book is fine in all other regards. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-28
US	49664433	R255EGI32SS9ZA	0152575537	525585751	North to Freedom	Books	4	22	27	N	N	A Lesson in Freedom	This book nails the formula for exciting fiction: change throughconflict. And there's plenty of conflict. Young David is trying tomake his way north to freedom after escaping from a concentrationcamp. He must do this alone and at the risk of his life. Recapture,starvation, loneliness, and a 1000-mile expanse of war-torn Europe arethe obstacles in his way.<br />We trek with David, feeling his pain,fear, sorrow, and disillusionment. But there, too, on the journey welearn about life, love, courage, and the value of freedom astwelve-year-old David comes of age well before his time, and Europecomes of age a little too late.<br />This book is an excellent choice forspoiled, middle class American children who've been spoon-fed freedomtheir whole life and think that the only freedom worth fighting for isan extra hour of video games before bed. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes.	2000-10-24
US	49664433	R1KZPQNKPHY998	0399501487	502818647	Lord of the Flies	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Required Reading.	This classic tale has stood the test of time not only because it is beautifully written, but because it takes a revealing look at basic human nature, both good and bad. Golding uses the circumstance of teenage boys marooned on a tropical island by a plane crash to illustrate in exciting detail how some react to conflict and adversity. The flawed &quot;society&quot; the boys develop in their quest for survival is a microcosm of our modern civilized world. Lessons and questions abound in his masterful prose--without preaching or pretense.<br />This book is much more than just a story; it is art. It's one those pieces of literature that add to culture and foment introspection in young readers. In a small way, the world is a better place because of Lord of the Flies. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-23
US	49664433	R4FEUMINKJ289	0553257994	372934503	The Frontiersmen (Narratives of America series, Book 1)	Books	5	14	18	N	N	My Favorite Book	I have read this book twice, something I took the time to do only once before (Tolkien, of course). Forget Daniel Boone. Eckert skillfully relates how Simon Kenton once literally picked a wounded Daniel Boone up and threw him at a charging group of Indians to save them both. Simon Kenton, virtually unknown to the average American, epitomizes American values and the mythical American male: large, strong, handsome, rugged, independent, resourceful, brave, kindhearted, and fairminded. This book is as good as literature gets. Researched to the bone, written to the max, orgasmically exciting. If I had extra stars, I'd stick 'em here.<br />I suggest every person who's ever claimed to hate history read this book. It comes alive on these pages. Why, oh why, don't they throw out the worthless history textbooks and use Eckert's books to teach American history to our children? Is it because we can't handle the truth? --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-21
US	49664433	R3AZTZH1MSSTXF	0802733360	919076609	Lead, So I Can Follow	Books	2	0	5	N	N	Where's the Beef?	In mystery writing--as in all fiction writing--when you pull apart the hardcover buns, there should be a sizeable slab of conflict inside. Sure, depending on how the author or readers like it, condiments such as plot, characterization, and blah, blah, blah, can be added to enhance taste. But conflict is the &quot;beef&quot; of all fiction. Harold Adams' book has small meat.<br />The writing is tight, the history and scenic descriptions accurate and well-done, but everyone gets along. A stranger dies in the beginning, but no one is ever threatened again. The protagonist gets along with his wife, the local cops, the local residents, even the suspects. What's the point? There's no urgency. I only turned the pages out of curiosity to find out when something good might start happening. It didn't.<br />Okay. I'm exaggerating. The book is not that bad. Give it three stars. Lovers of pure whodunits may give it four. But for me this was no Whopper. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-21
US	49664433	RMG7TYK9ZRJA5	0898799775	410767196	Writer's Market 2001: 8000 Editors Who Buy What You Write	Books	5	29	29	N	N	The Writer's Bible	When Writer's Market was first recommended to me years ago as a necessary tool in the quest for publication, I reluctantly paid my money, expecting another dry reference manual that would occupy space on my shelf and do little for me. Boy, was I wrong! I have since bought each new edition, and the 2001 version is the best yet.<br />This book is loaded with articles that go beyond helpful to the point of inspiring. It contains complete instructions on manuscript formatting. Beginning writers often have no appreciation for the stiff odds they face in getting published--even with a perfectly formatted manuscript. Submissions that don't follow the guidelines laid out so clearly in Writer's Market simply scream &quot;amateur,&quot; and wipe out what little chance you had.<br />And there is no other place to find such a complete and well organized listing of agents and publishers. It tells you who they are, what they are looking for, how to submit your proposal, and where to send it.<br />I believe my book would never have been published had I not used Writer's Market. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-16
US	49664433	R3O1OFO9SYWRWG	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Riveting!	Only a few hundred hardy souls have managed to reach the highest point on earth, the peak of Everest. The odds of one of them having the writing skills of Jon Krakauer and doing it on the most ill-fated group attempt of all time are slim indeed. We low-elevation mortals are blessed to have a true storyteller's first-hand account of a gripping and gruesome ordeal, one that reveals a lot about human nature--some of it good, some not, all of it fascinating.<br />Jon's descriptions place you with him on the mountainside. You can picture everything. The phone calls to the dying Hall, expedition leader, are quite moving.<br />I admit to being a slow reader. Not so with Into Thin Air. This is a true page-turner. I devoured it. You will too. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-15
US	49664433	R32BA6SE2DZBHF	0684824299	318460719	Bell Curve: Intelligence and Class Structure in American Life (A Free Press Paperbacks Book)	Books	5	40	50	N	N	A Real Eye Opener	Wow. This book is not for those low on the bell curve. Sophisticated language, piles of data, and important and complex issues make this a read only for a minority of educated readers capable of comprehending its message and handling the truths. There-in lies its problem.<br />And truth it does contain. The authors convince beyond all reasonable doubt the affect of IQ level on society. Reading the book produces 2-by-4-to-the-head realization. Criticism of The Bell Curve wells from ignorance, racism, defensiveness, an inability to handle the truth, and an unwillingness to actually read the whole book. It's about so much more than race.<br />The sad thing about the book is that it was written before its time. The authors took a chance, stepped to the plate, and created a stir. But already the topic has fallen back into taboo status. The Bell Curve should be mandatory reading for all government officials and policy makers. But alas, its enormous potential is being lost on a dumbed-down society of politically correct bureaucrats who don't understand the science of statistics. Decades from now this book will probably make a resurgence as society takes another hard look at itself. Let's hope it's not too late. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-15
US	49664433	R3U49DEIMJNGTS	0618002219	669379389	The Hobbit: or There and Back Again	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Prelude to the Ring Trilogy	This is easily a 5-star story, but I can't give it that because the five stars must be reserved for the Lord of The Rings, Tolkien's three-book continuation of the fantasy tale of Hobbits and Middle Earth, which is even better.<br />I can find no way to criticize this book. It is simply marvelous. Bilbo Baggins' adventure to conquer the evil dragon, Smaug is the epitome of fantasy fiction. But as good as it is, the Ring Trilogy is somehow even better.<br />It is possible to read the Ring Trilogy and thoroughly enjoy it without ever having read the Hobbit, but my advice is to read the Hobbit first. It provides a good deal of background so that the later story is easier to follow, plus I feel it's a let-down to read the superior Trilogy first and then follow up with the Hobbit.<br />Then again, that's like trying to decide whether it's better to first wear diamonds or gold, or drive a Ferrarri or Porsche. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-13
US	49664433	R3FDHI0181W33E	0395974682	669379389	The Lord of the Rings	Books	5	13	15	N	N	How To Be A Great Parent:	1) Take a year and read The Ring Trilogy to your eight-year-old as a bedtime story. 2) Wait five years and then buy them their own boxed set when they're thirteen.<br />Here's why. At eight, most kids are too young to read and fully comprehend the book themselves, but they will enjoy the story, learn a tremendous amount of language, and appreciate the time spent with them.<br />Later they'll have fond, sentimental memories of the book and will reread your gift to them on their own. This is good because the story has it all: love, beauty, nature, hard work, perseverance, courage, good over evil, adventure, every important lesson you'd ever hope to teach them--all told better than you ever could.<br />This book is absolutely guaranteed to offset the negative influence of bad neighbor kids, poor teachers, The Jerry Springer Show, and your own parental shortcomings. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2000-10-11
US	49664433	R3O9TVQWWVJHUH	0451173139	464602444	Night Over Water	Books	3	42	53	N	N	Didn't Take Flight For Me.	Follett does his usual excellent job of researching his subject matter--in this case old passenger seaplanes--and the history of the era (a world spinning toward war in the late 1930s). And the writing style is fine, but the story just never got off the ground. I never quite got the point. It was as if he worked hard to invent characters and plot around a subject he wanted to write about: seaplanes. The whole thing seemed like a stretch. Think of it as &quot;Airport 1938.&quot;<br />To Follett's credit he wrote in Night Over Water perhaps the steamiest sex scene I've ever read. I almost tried waking up the wife (dangerous). Plus I read this book after being completely blown away by his Pillars Of The Earth, so a let-down was inevitable. The book is better than most and probably deserves four stars. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2000-10-09
US	49664433	R3UYZRTIE0GXWY	0451176820	406755002	Saint Mudd: A Novel of Gangsters and Saints	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Gritty and Fun Historical Fiction	Thayer's Saint Mudd immediately catches your attention. He drops the &quot;efenheimer&quot; in the very first sentence. He manages to continue the pace and hold your attention throughout the book. What I found pleasantly surprising was the depth of historical research on gangsters and the city of St. Paul, MN and his ability to weave it into the story and make it interesting. I've lived most of my life within 20 miles of St. Paul, and never knew one tenth of the history that Thayer reanimates in this novel. While a fine tale well-written, it is the professional rendering of the history aspect that elevates the book from middle-pack to 4-star fiction.<br />I would add that Saint Mudd is not a book I would put in my 10-year-old's Xmas stocking. Thayer writes about a time in America when violent death, easy sex, drugs and corruption were commonplace. He uses appropriate language to accomplish this. There's plenty of profanity, sex, and violence. I like that; the PTA might not. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2000-10-08
US	49664433	R64DRPBNWPSO4	0452280109	193551147	The Pillars of the Earth	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Amazingly Good.	Pillars Of The Earth is an easy 5-star winner. I read this book on recommendation from a relative. It is not one I would have ever chosen by reading the jacket. A story about a 12th-century church-raising and the lives of its prior and sundry others just does not sound interesting to me. But I was astounded. This is a fantastic book. The research he must have done is overwhelming, but he doesn't overwhelm you with it. He makes the history come alive. He narrates a surprisingly exciting tale with a kind of fluidity and insight that easily suspends your disbelief and has you thinking you're reading a story told by someone who was actually there.<br />The plot is thick and rich, the characters simply masterful, and the language lyrical and flowing. Follett is a professional in every sense of the word, and earns my deepest respect with this epic work. -- Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead	2000-10-07
US	49664433	R2Q928AX65MBAP	0786109327	991276040	The Swiss Family Robinson	Books	5	55	66	N	N	In the Top Ten of all Time	But let's be clear right up front. My 5-star rating of this book applies only to the original unabridged version in Johann Wyss' own words. The modernized versions are watered down, time-wasters for word wusses.<br />When I was nine years old I spent months struggling through this book for the first time. The old style language made for rough going, but I persevered. In the end I was rewarded with more than a classic tale marvelously told; I discovered a love of books and earned self-respect for tackling a tough read.<br />If I was a teacher whose task it was to introduce students to classic literature, I would skip Dickens and use this book. Kids love adventure, animals, and action. Swiss Family Robinson has it all. It's really a thriller disguised as a literary classic. All book lovers should read this one at least once.<br />And please don't watch the Disney movie and claim you've &quot;been there, did that&quot; on this story. The movie is totally different and in no way compares.	2000-10-06
US	49664433	R2FD22ZESDJGTM	0312952716	231403284	A Simple Plan	Books	2	7	11	N	N	A Simple Answer	No. Don't bother to read this book. See the movie instead; it's much better.<br />As a published author myself, I usually tend to score books high in the &quot;stars&quot; department, just knowing what it takes to get into print. But I really struggled to give this book two stars. The reason I didn't give only one was that the story is basically good and had a lot of potential--which the movie producer recognized.<br />The number one problem with the book, the one that just ruined it for me, was word bloat. This book could easily be 200 pages shorter without changing the tale. Redundancy, irrelevancy, and deliberate word-count padding had me totally frustrated and fighting the urge to give up on a book for the first time in my life.<br />There was also enormously unbelievable out-of-character actions by the characters that had me shaking my head. And the ending was simply ridiculous. The movie completely changes the story's end--and rightly so.<br />Readers who place more emphasis on plot than prose may accept this book (as indicated by the large number of positive reviews), but if you're the kind of person who hated those kids in school who got away with writing essays double-spaced with big letters simply to fill page requirements, you won't like Smith's writing. There's plenty of books out there with both good plot and prose. I'd say move on. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, author of Wake Up Dead.	2000-10-05
US	49664433	R37KDVSDAD00ID	0812563115	365726027	Great Expectations (Tor Classics)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	From A Different Era	I still wonder why this book is a perennial reading requirement in junior high schools across the country. I had to read it way back when, and it almost turned me off from books in general. This is not to say it's a bad book, because, on the contrary, it's great, but don't have great expectations of an exciting contemporary read. To enjoy this book and appreciate the beauty of fully-fleshed characters, come-alive scenes, and intricately woven plot, you absolutely must keep in mind that this book was written in a different time, before the Hemingway revolution of sparse prose. As you read it, expect long verbose passages and  miles between exciting scenes. But stick it out, and in the end expect a great read that stays with you a lifetime. If the schools are trying to expose antsy kids to Dickens, they may be better served with A Tale of Two Cities, which moves a bit faster in my opinion.	2000-10-04
US	49664433	R2AIT2940EJ7R1	0312010443	685918708	How to Write a Damn Good Novel: A Step-by-Step No Nonsense Guide to Dramatic Storytelling	Books	5	21	22	N	N	A Blueprint to Success	Since the publication of my bestselling suspense novel, Wake Up Dead, I field a continuous stream of questions from would-be writers on advice for getting published. My answer is always the same: buy Frey's book, How To Write A Damn Good Novel. I bought it. I read it. I followed his instructions. I earned publication in a national fiction contest. It is the best-written, most concise, witty, and thorough book-writing tutorial out there--and I've read them all. What was the first thing I did before starting my second novel? I reread Frey's book! Thank you, James.	2000-10-03
US	49664433	R2L75BU4U5H73Z	0816633614	339571487	Jailhouse Stories: Memories of a Smalltown Sheriff	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Cop, Good Cop.	Neil Haugerud's Jailhouse Stories should be mandatory reading at every police academy. If half the police had half of Neil's common sense and compassion, our world would be twice as nice. Neil is a master of understatement and a great storyteller. Read his book and he becomes an old friend, though you've never met. --Christopher Bonn Jonnes, Author of WAKE UP DEAD	2000-10-03
US	49664433	R249T34G0J82M4	1929976011	481651682	Inner Passages (Michael Tanner Mystery)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Worthy Mystery	Brookins' first book is a success. He follows the mystery genre's rules, and it works for him. There's early murder (Michael Tanner's wife and a friend), a well-defined and likable character in conflict (Tanner), a beautiful setting (the Inner Passage), a premise he can write knowledgeably about (sailing), love interest (Mary Whitney), and a smoothly rendered plot.<br />The straight forward, no nonsense writing style bends toward literary, with much of the tale spent in evocative exposition on the Northwest's Inner Passage and sailing in general. Some readers might find the suspense a bit bland, as if the plot were developed as an excuse to write about sailing, something Brookins obviously knows a lot about and enjoys.<br />I liked the story, and think most mystery readers and all lovers of sailing and the sea will too. Watch for more from Carl Brookins.	2000-10-02
