US	49667787	R3JZJHQ5T25F1S	0830815694	386224253	Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig & Gerd Ludemann	Books	1	11	113	N	N	Selling religion like soap	As far as I can tell, neither of these two debaters ever met Jesus.  (Oh, that's right.  Craig claims that an invisible spirit visits him every day, to reaffirm his belief in Jesus.)  There's a story in the Gospel of Mark about three women visiting a cemetary before sunrise and finding a tomb open.  They look inside and see a young man, dressed in a white robe, sitting there.  No one knows how long he has been there, or what he's doing sitting inside a tomb at sunrise.  He tells the women that the corpse they came to find, the man Jesus, has gone on to Galilee.      Who was this young man?  No one ever asks that question.  Now, the second part of the puzzle is found in the Gospel of John, when Jesus brings a young man named Lazarus back to life.  the young man is in a tomb, and Jesus orders the stone rolled away before calling out, &quot;Lazarus, wake up.&quot;      Now, here's the secret.  The young man in the Empty Tomb is Lazarus, and these two stories are one and the same.  After the Gospel of Mark was written, some editor took out the story of Lazarus, finding it too suggestive of a relationship between jesus and the young man.  The Gospel of Mark originally ended with the Roman centurion saying, &quot;Surely this was a Son of God,&quot; just as the Roman Senate had proclaimed Julius Caesar after his death.  So, they took the story of Lazarus and added it onto the end of Mark's Gospel.  This explains who the young man was.  He was the man that Jesus raised in the original version, but since Jesus was dead now, he's just a messenger.      Until you know this, you can't explain the Empty Tomb.  These two debaters go back and forth, arguing this and that, but they don't know who the young man was, or why he was there, or that the story is just a re-editing to create a better ending.  You might think this young man had been part of a group that opened the tomb and carried Jesus' body away.  That would explain how he knew Jesus was gone, and what he was doing there.But that kind of thinking was deadly to the early Church, so Matthew changed the young man into an angel, and made sure the women saw him fly down from heaven and roll the stone away in front of them.      For a debate on Jesus and the resurrection, you need to start with the most reasonable theories, not this hallucination explanation.  The &quot;resurrection&quot; was invented after Jesus died, and it was never based on anything that really happened.	2000-12-27
US	49667787	R2JZYOPLKJF9N4	0830815694	386224253	Jesus' Resurrection: Fact or Figment?: A Debate Between William Lane Craig & Gerd Ludemann	Books	1	9	40	N	N	Selling religion like soap	As far as I can tell, neither of these two debaters ever met Jesus.  (Oh, that's right.  Craig claims that an invisible spirit visits him every day, to reaffirm his belief in Jesus.)  There's a story in the Gospel of Mark about three women visiting a cemetary before sunrise and finding a tomb open.  They look inside and see a young man, dressed in a white robe, sitting there.  No one knows how long he has been there, or what he's doing sitting inside a tomb at sunrise.  He tells the women that the corpse they came to find, the man Jesus, has gone on to Galilee.  Who was this young man?  No one ever asks that question.  Now, the second part of the puzzle is found in the Gospel of John, when Jesus brings a young man named Lazarus back to life.  the young man is in a tomb, and Jesus orders the stone rolled away before calling out, &quot;Lazarus, wake up.&quot;  Now, here's the secret.  The young man in the Empty Tomb is Lazarus, and these two stories are one and the same.  After the Gospel of Mark was written, some editor took out the story of Lazarus, finding it too suggestive of a relationship between jesus and the young man.  The Gospel of Mark originally ended with the Roman centurion saying, &quot;Surely this was a Son of God,&quot; just as the Roman Senate had proclaimed Julius Caesar after his death.  So, they took the story of Lazarus and added it onto the end of Mark's Gospel.  This explains who the young man was.  He was the man that Jesus raised in the original version, but since Jesus was dead now, he's just a messenger.  Until you know this, you can't explain the Empty Tomb.  These two debaters go back and forth, arguing this and that, but they don't know who the young man was, or why he was there, or that the story is just a re-editing to create a better ending.  You might think this young man had been part of a group that opened the tomb and carried Jesus' body away.  That would explain how he knew Jesus was gone, and what he was doing there.  But that kind of thinking was deadly to the early Church, so Matthew changed the young man into an angel, and made sure the women saw him fly down from heaven and roll the stone away in front of them.  For a debate on Jesus and the resurrection, you need to start with the most reasonable theories, not this hallucination explanation.  The &quot;resurrection&quot; was invented after Jesus died, and it was never based on anything that really happened.But that kind of thinking was deadly to the early Church, so Matthew changed the young man into an angel, and made sure the women saw him fly down from heaven and roll the stone away in front of them.      For a debate on Jesus and the resurrection, you need to start with the most reasonable theories, not this hallucination explanation.  The &quot;resurrection&quot; was invented after Jesus died, and it was never based on anything that really happened.	2000-12-27
US	49667787	R1JQKXG9TYJGTC	0310220157	410592075	The Case for Faith: A Journalist Investigates the Toughest Objections to Christianity	Books	2	22	45	N	N	A minister gives implausible answers to tough questions	I didn't like Strobel's previous book, &quot;The Case for Christ,&quot; and this one has the same flaws.  Strobel presents a strong case FOR his own religious beliefs, but when these answers cross the line into being implausible or ridiculous, he just encourages the reader to &quot;believe it because I, a former atheist, do.&quot;  And when you read the answers critically, you realize that isn't good enough.  <br />     For example, would an all-loving God consign people to hell?   Strobel interviews J.P. Moreland, who assures us that God has no intention of torturing or tormenting people, and the New Testament references are not to be taken literally.  When Jesus appears &quot;in flames&quot; at the Second Coming, he isn't going to be burned by the fire, so Skeptics and non-Christians won't actually  be hurt or in pain, either.  Nonsense.  Utter nonsense.<br />     When the Gospels were written, the Temple of Jerusalem had been taken apart, stone by stone, after the Jewish-Roman war of 66-70 AD.  According to Josephus, over a MILLION Jews - 1,300,000 of them - were slaughtered and butchered in a merciless fashion.  Jesus himself died on a cross, hanging in full view of a Jewish audience.  According to the Gospels, at the Second Coming, those who accept Christ will be separated from those who do not, and those who do not &quot;will be thrown into the fiery pit prepared by God for Satan and his angels.&quot;   The fate of Skeptics and non-christians is clear, crystal clear.  They will suffer more than the Jews tortured by the Romans, because on the Day of Judgment, God will set the scales of justice right.<br />     To Strobel's credit, he does interview ONE Skeptic in the opening of the book, Charles Templeton.  Templeton was a contemporary of Billy Graham, sharing the pulpit with the &quot;Protestant Pope&quot; before he became disillusioned with Christianity.  In a few brief quotes, he explains why.  &quot;If I were to take a small child, say age five or six, andI were to hold this child's hand against the burner of a stove so that his flesh started to burn, I would think myself quite a monster.  I would be so ashamed, I would be unable to face myself in the mirror.  Now, what is it that God will do with these Skeptics?  He will not only hold their hands against a hot oven, but he will keep it there, not for a few minutes, or an hour, or even a week, but for the rest of ETERNITY!   Is this the kind of a God that I wish to worship?  I cannot conceive of a God who is a sadist, who tortures innocent children for the sins of their ancestors, men who died twenty centuries ago.&quot;   That is the argument, stated a bit better than Strobel did, but Strobel clearly sees the problem.<br />     If you become a christian by accepting Christ as your Savior, what about those who reject that religion?  What about Jews who reject Christ as their Messiah because he did not restore the Kingdom of David, but died forty years before they lost their country altogether?  What about buddhists, who wouldn't kill a cow, and Scientologists?  By a generous estimate, if we have three billion Christians today (a billion Catholics, a billion Protestants, and a billion to cover everyone else) then we would have THREE BILLION people alive today who will be thrown into that fiery pit if Jesus were to appear today.  What kind of loving Creator-God would hold the hands of three billion children against a 500-degree oven burner and hold it there for years and years, just to torment them for their disbelief? <br />     Strobel sees this problem.  He puts it on the table, and then he pretends it solves itself.  He's dishonest, when he identies himself as a &quot;legal affairs editor&quot; and never mentions that he's a pastor for a modern mega-Church in Orange County. And that's why I can't give this book more than two stars, even though other reviewers may disagree.	2000-10-05
US	49667787	R3HW37J7IYKVO0	0195141571	977491270	Saint Saul: A Skeleton Key to the Historical Jesus	Books	4	16	20	N	N	A literate history professor seeks Yeshua, not Jesus	As Historian Akenson points out, the name Jesus is a Greek translation of the Jewish name Yeshua, and it has acquired a secondary meaning that has replaced the original, very human man named Yeshua.  In this book, Akenson largely ignores the Gospels in order to focus on the letters of Saul (written using the name Paul) hoping for insights about the development of the Christ-myth.  Of course, since Paul never met the real Yeshua, all we can really hope for is some insight into Paul's character, to discover why he became so fanatical about selling this &quot;Jesus-myth&quot; to the Gentiles.<br />     Akenson's analysis of Paul's views on the &quot;virgin conception&quot; demonstrate this approach.  Paul preached to people familiar with &quot;various pagan myths of divine impregnation, particularly the popular Perseus, whose father (the god Zeus) had impregnated Danae, a human female, while taking the form of a shower of gold.  Anything that smacked of these cults repelled Paul...&quot;  so he slammed the door on the earliest attempts to introduce a &quot;virgin birth&quot; to the story of &quot;his&quot; Jesus.  &quot;Saul has picked up something in the air: not yet a fully-fledged, completely articulated version of the Virgin Birth, but something that is running through the margins of christianity in the 50s and early 60s.  It is not yet important enough to demand a full refutation. (He denies it) without ever having to use the term &quot;Virgin Birth&quot; and his readers fully comprehend... In his view, the doctrine is too lurid to even grant it a name...  In passing, Saul flicks it away, like an impatient high court judge dismissing a solipsistic argument by junior counsel.&quot;  I was not only impressed by the imagery and flow of his language, but I have to applaud the fact that Akenson is a history professor telling a story out of history, instead of a minister or a theologian writing half-truths to support his own religious beliefs.	2000-09-30
US	49667787	R4E9WTNS1757I	0899007325	936124138	The Historical Jesus: Ancient Evidence for the Life of Christ	Books	2	11	70	N	N	Jesus was Created, not Reported	How can we evaluate the evidence for Jesus?  Our best account is the  Gospel of Mark, written thirty years after Jesus died.  But there's more to  the story than that, much more, that Habermas never goes into.  Jesus was  executed by a Roman governor in Jerusalem.  When Peter started a church in  Rome, thirty years later, he traveled there and told them a story about  Jesus.  Our Gospel of Mark is a written re-telling of that sermon.  Does  that suggest any inherent bias?  Peter decided to make Jesus into a hero  who would appeal to Romans, and he invented things that Jesus never said or  did, to make him sound heroic.  He had a Roman centurian look at the corpse  and say, &quot;Surely, he was the Son of God.&quot;  Yeah, right.    Habermas writes on the same level as if he reviewed all of Fleming's James  Bond novels and came to the conclusion that James Bond really lived.   Humans love to create heroes, and make them sound credible, but they're  still fictional creations.  What else did Jesus do?  He entered a synagogue  in Capernaum and had a conversation with an invisible demon who was  possessing a man.  Jesus ordered the demon to leave, and the man fell down  in convulsions, and then announced that the demon had left him.  Habermas  says this story, and the Gospel it appears in, should be considered  credible evidence that Jesus actually lived.  Evidence, perhaps, but not  credible evidence.  As one reviewer said, Truth is rock solid and absolute.  That's how we learn to tell Truth from Fiction.  The Gospels offer us a  story about invisible angels (sorry, former angels) who got kicked out of  heaven for following Lucifer in a rebellion against God, and then had to  live a strange existence by taking possession of human bodies and making  the owners appear mentally ill, live in caves, break chains with incredible  strength...  I mean, this just isn't credible.  Once Christians started  mourning Jesus, historians recorded the movement.  Does that mean Jesus wasreal?  Okay, but it doesn't mean the Resurrection was real, or that Jesus  predicted the destruction of the Temple in 70 AD.  All of these mythical  touches were invented after Jesus died, so he could &quot;predict&quot;  events that happened between the time he died and the time the Gospels were  composed.  All of this leads us to the conclusion that there is no real  evidence whether Jesus actually lived or not.  The story is what sold, and  the story isn't true.	2000-08-19
US	49667787	R3FOTWU8GDS8AX	1564762440	988555255	Letters From a Skeptic: A Son Wrestles with His Father's Questions about Christianity	Books	2	23	38	N	N	How do you reach a fanatical son?	I found this book to be extremely emotional because I felt so sorry for the elder Boyd.  He was 70 years old at the time he entered into these  letters, and his son - a professor of theology - will only write to him if  they can talk about Christianity.  At the end, the father admits he doesn't  believe in Christianity, but he is willing to abandon his own beliefs in  order to reach out and establish a relationship with his son before he  dies.  This is a marvelous account of the intense psychological pressure -  I'd call it brainwashing, but it's far worse - that christian evangelists  inflict on their families, particularly underage children and elderly  parents.  When you're 70 and someone promises you another life beyond this  one in return for your soul, for saying you believe, why not?   The  arguments about non-Christians spending an eternity in hell, subject to  some kind of unpleasant torture if not burning fire, which is what the text  says - wow, how is any 70 year-old supposed to stand up to that?	2000-08-06
US	49667787	R1WKS9XQOJEIM9	0801061784	724625980	The Biblical Basis for Modern Science	Books	1	24	97	N	N	How to Lose a Debate, Part 1	This book has nothing to do with science.  Every time a scientific theory is discussed, Morris starts talking about his own faith and urges the reader to discard the stupid ideas you learned in science class and read  your Bible again.  For example, the order of creation.  Morris points out  that Genesis says the order of creation was (1) earth (2) sun, (3) moon,  and (4) stars other than the sun.  Okay, he's right, that is the order of  Creation in the Bible.  Then he goes off the deep end and says that the  order of creation in the Bible makes more sense to him than the imaginary  and unproven scientific theory that the stars existed before our earth did,  and that the planets somehow spun off from older stars. Since the universe  was created FOR man, it only makes sense (to Morris) that God chose to  create the most complicated structure, the earth, before the less  complicated structures (moon and stars.) For the neo-Creationists out  there, the scientific theory says that the Big Bang initially created  hydrogen and helium, and heavier elements like iron, carbon and oxygen were  formed through a fusion process inside the extreme heat and pressure of a  star, and then expelled by either a nova, or possibly a huge solar flare.  Either way, a star had to go through enough of its life cycle to produce  iron and then expel it, before our earth existed at all.  Now, if you use  this nonsense in a debate, they may not laugh at your face, but you know  what they're thinking: this is why Christians complain that science is  pushing religion out the back door.  A better developed approach is  Intelligent Design, but the underlying theme is the same.  Let's teach  those kids about the Bible in public schools, and get rid of those damn  fool theories that contradict the Word of God.  The simple truth is that we  have learned a lot more about the universe since Genesis was written, and  those ideas prove, beyond any doubt, that Genesis was neither written nor  inspired by the Infinite Intellect that created the Universe by a mere act  of Will.  It was written by a desert nomad sitting in the desert, staring  up at the stars and wondering, How did I get here?the Infinite Intellect that created the Universe by a mere act  of Will.  It was written by a desert nomad sitting in the desert, staring  up at the stars and wondering, How did I get here?	2000-06-14
US	49667787	RS0CPE4YAYZY0	0805420266	391101741	Faith on Trial	Books	1	21	40	N	N	Lawyers shouldn't be so gullible	In Part 1, attorney Ewan makes a case for the New Testament being admissable in a Federal court under an exception to the hearsay rule for ancient documents.  Okay, maybe it would be admissable as evidence just  because it is old, and we don't have any good way to cross-examine the  authors, but the defense would still be able to debate the credibility of  the contents.  In Part 2, Ewan looks at the credibility issue and her  analysis falls apart.  She says, &quot;There is no reason to assume that  any of the witnesses would create false traditions,&quot; and therefore we  must rule the document credible.  Let's look at some of the facts she  ignores.  In Acts 5, Peter kills two people who refused to give all of  their money to his church and buries their bodies in his back yard, then  announces that God killed them for lying to the Holy Spirit.  Wouldn't that  little incident suggest that Peter might have a &quot;reason to create a  false tradition,&quot; i.e., because he not only lives on the donations  from his followers, but he kills anyone who doesn't give enough?  And look  at the setting.  In 70 AD, after a two-year seige, the Romans captured  Jerusalem, burned it to the ground and buried the ashes.  Wouldn't that be  a good reason to create a Jewish martyr who will appear in the clouds to  announce the End of the World, according to Jewish prophecy?  Every story  Peter told about Jesus had already been told about  a Roman Emperor - the  virgin birth, being taken up to heaven to sit at the right hand of God,  doing miracles.  Even the opening of Mark &quot;the good news of Jesus  Christ&quot; was copied from a Roman poet named Virgil who praised Augustus  as &quot;the Savior of a new Age,&quot; starting his text with the same  phrase, &quot;the good news.&quot;  No, the analysis of the credibility  issue here is shallow and one-sided.  The hero of the legend, Jesus, raised  Lazarus from the dead.  Can't we argue that anyone who claims to raise his  friends from the dead is &quot;likely to create a false tradition&quot; and  is, basically, a con man not to be trusted.  The eerie similarities between  the account of Peter's actions in Acts 5 and the recent tragedy in Uganda,  where 969 members of a Christian church were killed and buried when they  asked for their money back, after the world didn't end on December 31,  1999, should not be ignored.  The authors of the New Testament - a man  named Mark who never met Jesus, but only repeated what Peter told him - are  not credible biographers.  A good case can be made for the author of  Matthew merely making footnotes on an existing copy of Mark, trying to show  how Jesus fulfilled OT verses so the reader didn't have to go back to a  separate scroll to check the wording.  Look at what material was added to  Mark by Matthew, and the case for the author being anyone who actually  heard Jesus speak disappears entirely.  No, this book is a Church lady  doing PR for her own beliefs, not an insightful, unbiased account by a  hard-nosed attorney.	2000-06-13
US	49667787	REV19B4GOJMTJ	0830819290	999464694	Reason in the Balance: The Case Against Naturalism in Science, Law & Education	Books	2	18	62	N	N	More propoganda from the Ministry of Deceit	As I understand his background, Philip Johnson was a middle-aged law professor when he decided he hadn't done anything important in his life except teach students and write articles for law journals.  Then he made  &quot;a commitment to Christ.&quot;  I met him at Biola University, where  he was preaching a sermon in the chapel as part of a conference on  Creationism.  He believes in God, an active God who not only created the  universe, but continues to be a part of it.  His &quot;Theory of  Intelligent Design&quot; is his way of bringing the concept of God back  into colleges.  He doesn't think it is true, and admits there is no  evidence to suggest that God works in this universe by any way other than  naturalist processes.  Yet, he stands up and says, &quot;We have to  consider the theory that God guided evolution, because our lives wouldn't  be as good without our belief in a Supreme Being who loves us.&quot;  Well,  that's a statement of religious belief, and all the rest is dressing it up  in a neat package with a ribbon.  Johnson loves his idea of God, and he has  made a commitment to bring people to Christ, and this drivel is his way of  getting around the provision of the U.S. Constitution which prevents the  government from teaching religion in public schools. In these books, and  during public appearances, he denies that his theories have any religious  origin, but when he talks to college students during his sermons, he  assures them he has to take that line to get his arguments heard.	2000-06-01
US	49667787	R117L14T8E4YC2	089900699X	700479647	Why Believe? God Exists!: Rethinking the Case for God and Christianity	Books	2	7	37	N	N	This isn't thinking, they're just quoting scripture	The title makes a promise: the authors have  &quot;re-thought&quot; the arguments FOR (a) God and (b) Christianity, and here are their conclusions.  In the same title, they give us the answer: &quot;God Exists!&quot;  With an exclamation point.  Well, that takes all the fun out of it.  This is a  typical &quot;Christian scholar&quot; book.  It appears to consider  &quot;all&quot; of the information on a subject, but (a)leaves out any  facts that go against their religious beliefs, and (b) the analysis is  shallow.  Either way, it doesn't make for a satisfying read, unless you're  a high school or college student looking for something to support your  parents' religious beliefs.  Let's call this the &quot;Christian Literature  of Deception,&quot; because that's all it is.  If you want to re-think the  arguments, consider this. The recent &quot;Left Behind&quot; series is,  basically, a 12-part serial about the End of the World.  The authors base  it on &quot;Bible prophecy.&quot;  Conclusion?  The Bible describes the End  of the World.  We've seen a lot of these cults recently, particularly in  Africa, where 949 people were murdered.  500 of them locked in a church and  set on fire.  There's one common feature: God has to deliver a revelation  to the cult leader, giving a date for the end of the world.  These cult  members wouldn't give up everything they own for a message that didn't come  from God, would they?  Now, is Christianity an End of the World cult?  Well, that's how it started.  The author of Matthew quoted Jesus, &quot;The  world will end while some of you standing here listening to me are still  alive.  The Son of Man................................... .&quot;  Paul  wrote, &quot;God has chosen a day when the world will end, and the man  Jesus has been assigned to judge us.&quot;  Obviously, if early Christians  truly believed the entire world was about to end, and they had a chance for  an eternity of heavenly bliss (against the punishemnt of eternal torment by  fire for  heretics) all they had to do was keep the faith, even if they had  to die for it.  One death, no matter how nasty, doesn't equal an eternity  in Paradise. When Habermas &quot;re-thinks&quot; the case for Christianity,  he assumes that Jesus actually spoke the words attributed to him.  Okay,  that's one opinion, but the words of Jesus say that the Son of Man (who was  not Jesus, but a popular figure in the religious fiction that Jesus read)  was going to appear in the sky &quot;before this generation passes  away.&quot;  Habermas asks us to believe the disciples were credible  witnesses, but read Chapter 5 of Acts.  A married couple have given money  to the church, but held back some of it.  Peter is outraged.  A few hours  apart, he brings the man and woman into a locked room, separately.  At the  end of each interrogation, a body is taken out to the back yard and buried.  Peter claims, &quot;They were cheating God.&quot;  So God killed them?  No, re-thinking requires us to realize that Peter killed this couple for  holding back money, and their belief was founded on the dreams about Jesus  that proved that the End Times had begun and the resurrection of Jesus was  the &quot;first fruits&quot; of a general resurrection when all the dead  would be raised and judged.  With hindsight, we know for a fact this  general resurrection didn't happen and the Son of Man didn't appear.  (It  would be roughly like someone predicting the return of Luke Skywalker, and  then 2,000 years later, scholars getting into an argument whether Luke  Skywalker really existed or not.)  It isn't that Habermas doesn't quote  facts; he does.  But he quotes only the party line, only those  &quot;facts&quot; that support his belief, and he never considers the  overall picture, that Christianity was an End of the World cult based on  the resurrection of a fallen leader who was given authority by God to judge  us.  No thanks, I would simply prefer not to believe this.orment by  fire for  heretics) all they had to do was keep the faith, even if they had  to die for it.  One death, no matter how nasty, doesn't equal an eternity  in Paradise. When Habermas &quot;re-thinks&quot; the case for Christianity,  he assumes that Jesus actually spoke the words attributed to him.  Okay,  that's one opinion, but the words of Jesus say that the Son of Man (who was  not Jesus, but a popular figure in the religious fiction that Jesus read)  was going to appear in the sky &quot;before this generation passes  away.&quot;  Habermas asks us to believe the disciples were credible  witnesses, but read Chapter 5 of Acts.  A married couple have given money  to the church, but held back some of it.  Peter is outraged.  A few hours  apart, he brings the man and woman into a locked room, separately.  At the  end of each interrogation, a body is taken out to the back yard and buried.   Peter claims, &quot;They were cheating God.&quot;  So God killed them?   No, re-thinking requires us to realize that Peter killed this couple for  holding back money, and their belief was founded on the dreams about Jesus  that proved that the End Times had begun and the resurrection of Jesus was  the &quot;first fruits&quot; of a general resurrection when all the dead  would be raised and judged.  With hindsight, we know for a fact this  general resurrection didn't happen and the Son of Man didn't appear.  (It  would be roughly like someone predicting the return of Luke Skywalker, and  then 2,000 years later, scholars getting into an argument whether Luke  Skywalker really existed or not.)  It isn't that Habermas doesn't quote  facts; he does.  But he quotes only the party line, only those  &quot;facts&quot; that support his belief, and he never considers the  overall picture, that Christianity was an End of the World cult based on  the resurrection of a fallen leader who was given authority by God to judge  us.  No thanks, I would simply prefer not to believe this.	2000-05-30
US	49667787	R1CO53MQTIVACZ	0312253265	850288222	JonBenet : Inside the Ramsey Murder Investigation	Books	2	10	31	N	N	Now that they've passed the polygraph, drop this!	In several sessions between May 6 and May 17, polygraph expert Ed Gelb asked John and Patsy Ramsey questions, including 1. Are you concealing the identity of the person who killed JonBenet? 2.  Do you know for sure who  killed Jon Benet? I had a chance to watch Steve Thomas on Geraldo last  night, defending his book and denying the importance of the polygraph  results.  Watching him confirmed one impression I had from the book.  If  this man was questioning me about a murder, I would not help him, or answer  his questions.  If possible, I would go to a judge and ask for a court  order that a different investigator to be assigned.  The man is convinced  the Ramseys are guilty, and things like facts and polygraph results don't  affect him at all.  By comparison, read Barry Scheck's Actual Innocence and  the similar (very similar) accounts of police misconduct that have led to  innocent men (later exonerated by DNA tests) being convicted at trial and  sent to prison.  It is time for Steve Thomas to issue an apology to the  Ramseys.  At the very least, they have met his challenge.  They took the  test and they passed it 100%, which is the only important thing that Thomas  said in this book.  We all make mistakes.	2000-05-25
US	49667787	R1RSII0TXAKYDZ	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	By-the-numbers writing.	I had glanced at some of the earlier entries in this series, but this was  the first one I actually sat down to read.  It reads like a movie script  instead of a novel.  The characters have no inner motivations other than  worshiping God and obeying the plot laid down by LaHaye's interpretation of  prophecy.  Read Presumed Innocent.  Rusty Savich is a complex character  with a history outside the story.  Jenkins give us... an Antichrist named  Carpathia?  A 24-foot bronze statue that &quot;demands obedience&quot;?  An  Israeli statesman who ponders a conversion to Christianity because the  events predicted in the NT have come true?  Well, if they did come true, a  lot of people might consider converting, but the flaw in that argument is  that the events didn't come true.  The prophecy quoted by Matthew from  Micah 5 says &quot;One born in Bethlehem will rule in Isreal.&quot;  Okay,  when did Jesus rule in Israel?  He didn't, except in some fictional works.   What worries me is the people who think this series is describing a real  event, what is actually going to happen.  There isn't going to be a  Tribulation.  This is a work of fiction, based on an earlier work of  fiction.  And  after a few hundred pages, I began to resent the (often  spoken) assumption that non-Christians are going to be morally compelled to  convert because the EVENTS are coming TRUE, just as the authors of the  Bible predicted they would.  It's like George Lucas asking young people to  think about God, and then giving his &quot;believers&quot; the ability to  levitate fighter jets and &quot;cloud men's minds&quot; with &quot;old Jedi  mind tricks.&quot;  If the Force was real, a lot of people would believe in  The Force.  But don't ask me to believe because your fiction has a  compelling and convincing internal logic.  It is still fiction, not  reality.	2000-05-23
US	49667787	R202O54232SXSV	0060175931	922947589	Finding Darwin's God: A Scientist's Search for Common Ground Between God and Evolution	Books	5	6	15	N	N	Excels at science, but flunks advanced religion	Miller teaches this same subject at a graduate level, so his book sounds a lot like his lectures in class, polished and professional.  When he leaves  his class notes and drifts into his religious beliefs, he gets lost and  makes mistake after mistake.  For example, he says Genesis contains a true  and accurate history of man's spiritual relationship with God. Go back and  read the account of the Great Flood.  Genesis says that God became  disappointed in mankind, because we are preoccupied with sex and basically,  don't seem all that interested in worshipping God. So God decided to  destroy all animal life AND all human life from the surface of the earth.   God likes Noah, who is righteous and worships God, so he spares Noah and  his family.  Okay, how is that a true and accurate history of mankind's  relationship with God?  The history I learned has shrew-sized mammals  hiding in nooks and crevices for a hundred million years while dinosaurs  rule the earth, and after God kills off the dinosaurs, mammals get the  farm.  When did God decide to kill off the human race?  And, since this is  Miller's field, does analysis of our DNA allow us all to trace our ancestry  back to a single Jewish family?  Because, if that story is true, shouldn't  our DNA (and that of the entire human race) be tracable back to Noah and  his family?  I think our last common ancestor was in Africa about 2 million  years ago, but there is nothing in science to suggest that ONLY that one  family was spared by God.  If Miller would subject his religious beliefs to  the same polished scientific analysis he uses for his day job, the book  would have been a lot better.	2000-05-23
US	49667787	R3NTR3PHM49OAS	0609601423	75077454	The Lying Stones of Marrakech: Penultimate Reflections in Natural History	Books	4	28	37	N	N	No Creationist book rises to this level.	As I read this book, I had one of Philip Johnson's books on the table next to me.  (Johnson is a law professor who preaches against Darwinism because the theories cast doubt on his religious beliefs.) What a world of  difference!  As an example, the Book of Genesis says trees were producing  &quot;fruit with seeds in them,&quot; then the sun and stars were created,  and then animals, in that order (without regard to how long a yom, or day,  was.)  Gould points out that the first animals appear in the fossil record  about 600 million years ago.  Trees didn't appear until 150 mya.  Common  sense would suggest that trees came first, so animals could eat their  fruit, but that's wrong.  But Gould goes on to offer solid evidence about  the origin of animals.  Examination of chert (silicon dioxide)reveal  another 100 million years of embrionic animal fossils, too small to be seen  without a microscope.  The Creatinists used to accuse Darwinists of  manufacturing fossils, but how do you manufacture microscopic fossils  preserved in silicon dioxide?  Johnson says that deism (God created the  universe and left Nature to run it) is inferior to his brand of theism,  which claims that God continues to take an active role by performing  miracles.  If animals existed as microscopic forms for 100 million years,  how exactly does the Genesis account make sense?  It doesn't.  I was  constantly struck by the way Gould gave example after example, while  Johnson simply preached his own beliefs, without any regard to them being  true or not.	2000-05-21
US	49667787	RYZRSSZJGYIVS	0830816984	807016341	The Creation Hypothesis: Scientific Evidence for an Intelligent Designer	Books	2	10	46	N	N	This is PR for a religious belief, not science	The universe described in Moreland's &quot;Creation Hypothesis&quot; is... well, I'm not sure it's the same one we live in.  The Big Bang, as we define it, was an explosion.  For a few minutes, all matter in the universe  was so hot, it existed as plasma.  Then, millions of years later, stars  began to from.  As some stars grew older, they produced elements (other  than hydrogen and helium) through nuclear fusion.  These stars then  expelled these elements, possibly destroying themselves in the process.   The debris cooled to form our planet, which has a core of iron-nickel.   Now, exactly where is the &quot;evidence&quot; of a &quot;designer&quot; in  that process? If I detonate a nuclear device, knowing that it will produce  a mushroom-shaped cloud as the heat rises into the atmosphere, does that  mean that I &quot;created&quot; the mushroom cloud?  The evidence suggests  that some remarkable things happened.  But does it suggest that this  universe was designed for our form of life?  No, it doesn't. The current  concept of a &quot;personal, transcendant&quot; God who wants to be our  best friend, doesn't describe anything in the evidence.  It seems that God,  if God exists, is hiding and doesn't want us to see or communicate with  him.  If God wanted to talk to us, there wouldn't be any doubt about where  the message came from, and I doubt that it would be to give a plot of land  to the Israelites.  There are simply better explanations that cover all the  evidence.  This book presents &quot;pseudo-intellectual theories,&quot;  theories that may match a few pieces of data, but not the Big Picture of  what our universe really is.	2000-05-21
US	49667787	R2OA5HWAUWLTCQ	0471303011	425937674	Reinventing Darwin: The Great Debate at the High Table of Evolutionary Theory	Books	5	14	17	N	N	An Insider's View of Academic Posturing	I really enjoyed this book, even though I don't see the importance of the debate.  Each side (the scientists who study genes vs. the scientists who study fossils) has their own area of expertise, and within that area, their  conclusions appear to be totally supported by the own evidence.  The  solution, I believe, will be found on the genetics side, as they discover  exactly how a small &quot;mutation&quot; changes primitive organisms.  Our  genome is so huge, and tangled with billions of years of false starts and  dead ends, that mutations in our genomes don't produce new species, the way  similar mutations did in the Cambrian. I suspect this book is actually  aimed at those who don't accept evolution, to show that all the available  evidence has been examined &quot;under a microscope,&quot; and that  reputable scientists aren't afraid to present both sides of an issue in a  single work.  Contrast this with the Creationists, who feel free to present  any theory, or possible interpretation of a piece of evidence, without  evaluating it for credibility.	2000-05-20
US	49667787	R195HNSQUR6NUA	0883474581	126528536	Resurrected: Tangible Evidence That Jesus Rose from the Dead	Books	1	12	104	N	N	Define &quot;Tangible Evidence&quot; and call me in the morning.	Wow! Ex-hockey coach Gary Habermas presents &quot;tangible&quot; evidence that a man rose from the dead! Can anyone play that game?  Mark says that Jesus became famous as an &quot;exorcist&quot; who had conversations with  invisible demons in front of a crowd.  The &quot;demons&quot; obeyed him,  falling down at Jesus's feet in convulsions, screaming obscenities.  Isn't  it possibe this was a con man?  That the &quot;possessed&quot; were working  with Jesus?  When Jesus raised Lazarus from the dead, he opened a tomb at  night and Lazarus walked out, alive, wrapped in a burial shroud.  What  would Dana Scully say?  I know, because last week, the X-Files started an  episode with a man rising from the grave.  Scully scolded Mulder, saying  the most obvious explanation was a con game, someone pulling a charade.   All of the &quot;tangible&quot; evidence in this book fits that theory  exactly.  There was no tomb.  When the disciples held dinner meetings for  new converts, they presented a little play where a narrator (dressed in a  white robe) read a tribute to Jesus.  &quot;Look where they laid him.  He  is not here!&quot;  The disciples asked his followers to report their  dreams, and the dreams these people had about Jesus were the same ones Dr.  Raymond Moody collected about Elvis.  The women watched Jesus die on a  cross, in agony for hours, and then they had dreams in which people spoke  with Jesus' voice and they suddenly realised, &quot;This must be  Jesus.&quot;  No, this &quot;tangible&quot; evidence doesn't stand up to  any kind of scrutiny, certainly not the kind of rigorous cross-examination  we should demand (and seldom do.)  Recruiting a doctor who specializes in  &quot;Shroud credibility&quot; is not a step forward.  I'm going to wait  until Chris Carter (creator of the X-Files) does a definitive script for  &quot;Jesus: How to Fool Some People All of the Time&quot; where Scully  offers the best scientific explanation for the Resurrection.  After all, ifwe took Mulder's theories without that skeptical rebuttal, it wouldn't be  as good a show.	2000-05-20
US	49667787	R1YNQ71D4JKLE2	0849956072	39210595	Columbine Courage Rock-solid Faith	Books	2	7	11	N	N	More PR for a Christian Minister	Let's start with some facts.  Cassie Bernall was not a Christian martyr.  The shooter pounded on top of her table in the library, yelled &quot;Peek-A-Boo!&quot; and shot her.  He did not ask her if she believed  in God.  That was Valeen Schurr, who was under a table on the east side of  the library. When the police took Craig Scott back to the library, he  pointed toward Valeen's table as the source of that voice.  Cassie was  behind him, on the other side of the room.  Nothing in the journals from  the shooters suggest they targeted Christians.  They spewed hatred at  jocks, all the girls who rejected them and the world in general, but they  never singled out Christianity as a target, in any fashion.  So the  pictures in this book, with the captions suggesting these chruch groups are  fighting back against an attack, are misleading.  Here's one question Luce  didn't answer.  If the followers of Jesus can lay hands on the sick and  heal them, why haven't any of the 23 wounded survivors been healed?   Ministers all over America have led prayer groups asking for healing, and  no miracles have happened.  I think Churches are using Columbine as PR,  telling teenagers that Christian martyrs died for their faith.  But Valeen  Schurr is still alive.  She didn't die.  She screamed, &quot;Oh, God, help  me.&quot;  The shooter asked, &quot;Do you believe in God?  Why?&quot;  But  he didn't &quot;taunt&quot; her about her beliefs, the way we have been  told.  This book is Christian propoganda, written by a teen minister, and  he doesn't even get the facts right.  Nice pictures, though, showing the  pain they felt, and their loss.	2000-05-19
US	49667787	R35ZRWWO6ZOXX4	0768420466	940291673	Martyrs' Torch	Books	1	6	24	N	N	This crosses the line in demonizing innocent secularists	There must be a line somewhere, telling ministers how far theycan go in demonizing non-Christians. Author Bruce Porter uses polemics like,      &quot;The believers at Columbine High were soldiers. Their battlefield was  their high school, where they engaged an enemy ....................&quot; <br />     The Sheriff's report makes it  clear there were no Christian martyrs at Columbine.  Cassie Bernall did not  die for her belief in God.  Rachel Scott was not &quot;martyred as part of  God's plan to redeem a spiritually dying nation.&quot;  There is absolutely  nothing in any of the journals, videos, etc., left by the shooters to  indicate that Christians were their targets.  Like any teenage boy, they  held a grudge against girls who had turned them down, jocks who slammed  them into lockers or threw bottles at them from the back of pickup trucks.   Unlike normal teenagers, they couldn't control their hatred.  They  reinforced each other's delusions, making them seem credible, in the same  way that fellowship groups reinforce a group-think belief in Jesus.         Why did Harris and Klebold feel alienated?  Partly, it was because the  local churches were targeting the schools, vilifying and demonizing anyone  who wasn't a Christian.  Porter says Rachel &quot;served Her King and Lord  in a spiritually hostile, toxic environment.&quot;  Porter taught young  Christians to taunt non-Christians,  &quot;You are creating an environment  toxic to my Faith.&quot;  The truth is Harris never asked Cassie if she  believed in God.  That question was asked to Valeen Schnurr, after she had  been shot from a distance, and they listened to her answer and let her  live.  So there is no Martyr's Torch to pick up.  Non-Christians should  feel deeply offended at Porter's insults, and make it clear the facts don't  back him up.	2000-05-19
US	49667787	R29ZMUH9TL3VOS	0716741326	278516043	Nobody Left to Hate: Teaching Compassion After Columbine	Books	4	6	12	N	N	Adding a few answers to the puzzle of Why?	Finally, a book about Columbine by someone other than a Christian minister using the deaths as PR for his Faith.  Aronson says,  &quot;Condemnation is a great indoor sport.  It somehow makes us feel less helpless if we can  unmask a culprit who we can then proceed to vilify.&quot;  In that one  sentence, he sums up (and dismisses) most of what has been written about  Columbine so far.  He tries to explain the tragedy in terms of normal high  school problems, where students are &quot;undergoing intense stress as a  result of being excluded, mocked and taunted&quot; and asks us to  &quot;create an atmosphere where there is nobody left to hate.&quot; Noble  sentiments, but I don't think they explain Columbine, not after reading the  sheriff's report.  Both Harris and Klebold were unable to control their  impulses.  Their hatred took over their thoughts, until they were living  inside a fantasy world. Still, his recommendations will help normal  teenagers who suffer from these same problems.  Any group that tries to  come into high schools should be evaluated on their tolerance for  non-members.  Does this group vilify people who don't agree with their core  beliefs?  (Yes, I'm talking about religious groups, but that is only  because organizations like Campus Crusade are trying to breach the wall of  separation, to have the Ten Commandments displayed on the wall and bring  Bible reading back to the classroom.)  If Columbine can be explained in  terms of normal reactions to taunting, that the jocks etc. simply went too  far in their case, so be it.  But I think there was a physical defect in  the shooters' brains that took them into a different category.	2000-05-19
US	49667787	R3G9ROVKFP8WFA	0879753692	904995410	The Faith Healers	Books	5	21	27	N	N	Nobody wants to put Faith Healers in jail.	One thing about a con game, the people who fall for them get very defensive.  They refuse to believe the man outside the bank with the bank examiner's badge stole the money they withdrew from their account, thinking  the Feds needed it for evidence against a bank employee.  Faith healing is  a con game, with the same willing victims.  Even honest people think that  giving a woman dying of stomach cancer hope is a good thing (because some  cancers do reverse themselves when the immune system kicks in, and the  immune system is controlled by our beliefs/attitudes in ways that can't be  written down in textbooks.)  Randi did some personal investigation.  He  interviewed the woman who stood up from her wheelchair and started to walk,  and found she had walked into the crusade on her own.  An usher thought she  looked unsteady and asked her to sit in the wheelchair.  Outside, Randi  found a truck full of wheelchairs that the Faith Healer drove to every  crusade, pulling the same scam. Whenever people ask us to have an open mind  about &quot;miracles,&quot; I would simply hand them Randi's book and ask  them to learn some facts about how prevalent scams are in society.  If you  are sick and you have money, at some point you will be offered a miracle,  providing you part with some cash.  Yes, these guys are slick.  They smile,  quote the bible, and they seem more honest than average folks.  If they  didn't, they couldn't make a living as con men, could they?	2000-05-13
US	49667787	R1TNBT8RRWLTQG	0684862573	417990732	The Energy of Life: The Science of What Makes Our Minds and Bodies Work	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Points toward super-athletes of new century	The most interesting piece of information was a description of how the mitochondria in other animals produce more energy than human mitochondria.  Using the example of a leopard, our cells only produce 10% as much energy.   The possibility for the future is transplanting mitochondria from other  animals so our athletes can produce much more energy, a truly explosive  amount of energy.  So far, this is as theoretical as a Crichton novel on  quantum time-travel, but it is a fascinating concept.	2000-05-07
US	49667787	RZ96GUKRN0G7F	0891077642	352388591	Reasonable Faith: Christian Truth and Apologetics	Books	3	29	182	N	N	Is Faith still Reasonable when you consider the alternatives	The author wants to persuade his readers to believe that (a) God exists and (b) Christianity is true. That's a tall order, because Christianity has a 2,000 year old rule book that contradicts many modern ideas.  The  existence of demonic spirits, for example, or God sending a worldwide flood  to destroy all human life because He was disappointed in our choice of a  decadent after-hours lifestyle that revolved around sex. (Okay, the Holy  Spirit wouldn't have the same appreciation for sex that humans do.  I'll  give you that much.)  Craig argues that all humans can know that  Christianity is true by the &quot;self-authenticating witness of God's Holy  Spirit.&quot;  The Holy Spirit, as we know, is the part of the Holy Trinity  that isn't the Father or the Son.  Here's the mistake in his argument.   Every human being spends the first years of life totally dependent on their  parents for food.  The newborn brain starts as a clean slate, so the first  impressions of life are the strongest.  Every human being forms a mental  image of an outside force that feeds us and takes care of us, and then  buries this image in the subconscious.  When Craig says every human being  can experience the Holy Spirit, he is actually talking about our earliest  emotional memories of our parents.  Here's the test.  Cultures that have  different standards for child care have different images of their God/Holy  Spirit that reflect cultural differences.  In the OT, God was a cranky  despot who was always promising to send a Messiah to restore the Kingdom of  Israel, fulfilling a promise he made to Moses. In American society, Fathers  are the enforcers.  They make laws and enforce the rules, and so the modern  Christian God wants us to worship him and conform to his will.  In yuppie  households, the absentee landlord suddenly wants to be your best friend and  have a personal relationship with you. If you go into Oriental cultures,  where parents indulge their children more and never yell at them, God never  yells at his prophets either.  They have a kinder, gentler God, just like  George Bush promised.  When Craig says we can all &quot;experience the Holy  spirit,&quot; he never excludes those subconscious memories of our own  parents.  If he did, he would discover there is nothing left to his  &quot;experience.&quot;  Yes, the experience is real, and yes every human  being has a simlar one.  If he used stricter scientific testing instead of  trying to make his results conform to a 2,000 year-old text, his  conclusions would be completely different.	2000-05-07
US	49667787	R160Z4IC4G7KVM	0805417206	367579682	The Thomas Factor: Using Your Doubts to Draw Closer to God	Books	1	7	50	N	N	Author misses the Obvious Conclusion	Do all Christians wonder if they've made a mistake?  When they're alone at night and they hear the dead silence that answers their prayers, do they wonder if maybe, just maybe, there isn't a God out there listening?  I  assume Dr. Habermas would classify this as factual doubt.  (He says the  other kinds are emotional, when you're angry at God for letting a loved one  die, or volitional, which he defines as a weak or immature faith, meaning  you are unwilling to submit to biblical principles and let some minister  make all the important decisions in your life for you, using a 1,900 year  old text.)  I got the impression that Habermas has so many doubts about  Christianity, he doesn't really believe that Jesus is a divine being any  more.  In his other books, Habermas claims to be an expert on the  resurrection appearances, so he knows how flimsy the evidence is.  Anyone  who watches a beloved teacher and friend die a horrible death over several  hours, nailed to a cross on the side of a busy public road, and then has a  dream in which a gardener tending his grave suddenly starts speaking with  the voice of the dead man, well, these dreams have to be viewed with  skepticism, and not accepted as evidence that the loved one actually came  back from the dead to visit.  Human beings store memories for years, and  memories with a strong emotional content are often replayed during sleep as  dreams.  This is a normal process, and the first Twelve disciples  encouraged new converts to report their dreams as prophecies.  In this  book, Habermas treats his feelings of doubt that came from categorizing the  evidence.  Now, his conclusion is that &quot;Doubt doesn't come until I  give myself permission to question.&quot;  And I think that illustrates the  Christian position.  As a Christian, you don't have to give yourself  permission to question the divinity of Jesus.  You can go out and buy books  that affirm the validity of Christianity, but those books are dishonest  unless you allow yourself to evaluate the evidence honestly.  A Christian  who does not give himself permission to question the evidence, by saying  things like &quot;God said it, I believe it, and that settles it&quot; is  always going to be troubled by emotional doubts.  Every time God betrays  this blind faith (the 700 recent deaths in Uganda by a Christian minister  who took money in anticipation of the end of the world comes to mind) then  all of the hidden doubts rise to the surface.  This book presents so much  compelling evidence for doubting Christianity, I can only encourage the  reader to write his own last chapter.  What happens when you give yourself  permission to doubt?  Personally, I like the advice of John Stuart Mill,  &quot;Proportion your faith to the evidence.&quot;  If the evidence for a  &quot;resurrection&quot; 1,900 years ago is based on slight evidence, then  don't give 100% belief.  Give your belief in proportion to the strength of  the evidence.  Habermas knows the evidence better than most, and he has  written an entire book explaining how he uses his doubts to make his faith  stronger.  Well, I don't think that's the right conclusion.	2000-04-28
US	49667787	R29HRFWC1UH7JS	0375501037	191715854	Darwin's Ghost: The Origin of the Species Updated	Books	5	45	56	N	N	Evolution works, if you look hard enough.	The theory of evolution has gone through some rough times.  If you look around at life at this planet, it isn't obvious that we have been here for 3.5 billion years.  When animals are born, they look pretty much like their  parents, and that seems to be a &quot;rule&quot; about life.  But as we  enter the 21st century, we have learned rules about life that aren't as  obvious.  The information contained in our current DNA would fill  encyclopedias, but there was a time when the DNA of our direct ancestors  only filled a book.  There was a time, about 530 million years ago, when  the level of complexity in DNA crossed a threshold and new forms of life  appeared suddenly.  Then the DNA crossed another threshold and the DNA  became stable, trapped by its own size.  Instead of creating new lifeforms,  new mutations messed things up.  Creationists who only look at mutations in  today's DNA see this problem and say, &quot;All mutations are bad, so  evolution couldn't have formed complex life forms.&quot;  And the  Creationists are wrong, because they have never gone back to the  mechanisms.  This book explains some of the mechanisms involved, but the  most important one is SIZE.  For the last million years or so, the only  real change in human evolution has been an increase in size.  And that's  easy to do.  When a cell divides, there has to be a mechanism to tell the  cell when to stop dividing.  If we reset the clock and stop it one division  later, the organism doubles in size, because every cell has divided into  two cells.  That's how our brains got larger, when the mechanisms devoted  to processing visual information and making decisions based on it grew  larger.  Is that a mutation?  No, but it is natural selection, and that's  why Darwin's theories are so important today. He may not have gotten all of  the details right, but he saw a mechanism that changed life over great  periods of time, called natural selection.  Without it, we can't explain  why humans became intelligent, or who we are.  Great book!	2000-04-24
US	49667787	R269TSROHOK60Z	0785268480	473636941	Rachel's Tears: The Spiritual Journey of Columbine Martyr Rachel Scott	Books	2	9	61	N	N	Does this help us to understand why?	I feel sorry for Rachel Joy Scott.  Her parents were so caught up in their love for God, in the importance of their own religious beliefs, they brainwashed this little girl.  In this book, they print actual entries from Rachel's handwritten journals.  Over and over again, Rachel wrote the same  thing:  &quot;God never talks to me.  I pray and beg him to answer me, but  all I hear is silence.&quot; Rachel was devastated because God wouldn't  talk to her, the way she had been taught He would.  Somehow, she never  realized that God never talks to people.  When the father heard about the  shootings on his car radio, he &quot;heard a voice&quot; in his thoughts  saying, &quot;This is a spiritual event.&quot; Rachel was young and  confused.  She thought her father was talking about a literal voice inside  his head, and she wondered why God never talked to her that way.  Maybe we  can help the next Rachel if we make it clear that God did not tell him,  &quot;This is a spiritual event.&quot;  That was something his &quot;inner  voice,&quot; his consciousness told him, not a supernatural entity  addressing him from the outside through telepathy.  I think Columbine  happened, in part, because local ministers tried to break through the  church-state barrier by having their sons lead Bible-study classes.  That's  one reason why the shooters reacted against Christians, because of the way  the children of local ministers treated them, and labeled them as Spawn of  Satan because they couldn't accept Christ the same way Rachel did.	2000-04-24
US	49667787	R1QMIOMV19GCUV	1576831116	614227873	The Genesis Question: Scientific Advances and the Accuracy of Genesis	Books	1	48	78	N	N	Why lie about the Genesis account?	After reading the reviews that praised Dr. Ross for reconciling Genesis with science, I have to point out his basic mistake.  Genesis gives an order of Creation.  It describes &quot;trees producing fruit&quot; on Day 4, and then a night, and then &quot;the sun, moon and stars&quot; were made  and placed into the dome of heaven on Day 5.  Dr. Ross points out that the  heavy elements, like carbon, in our bodies were formed by fusion inside  stars, so the stars had to exist BEFORE trees could grow on earth.  How  does he reconcile this?  He doesn't.  He says the sun and stars only appeared  on Day 5, when an opaque atmosphere became transparent, and they were  actually created before Day 1 began.  Any one who has a Bible can read the  account, and it clearly states that the stars were not created until Day 5.   A note to all Christians who are praising this book: go back and read  Genesis and see that I'm right.  He also glosses over the passage that says  the dome separated the waters above the dome from the waters under the  dome.  When the stars were set into the dome, they were UNDER WATER.  What  water?  No, the Genesis account can NOT be reconciled with current  scientific theories, unless you only choose two or three verses out of a  story 50 verses long.	2000-04-21
US	49667787	R34VNUD1HTTN7R	0310226465	938771460	The Case for Christ: A Journalist's Personal Investigation of the Evidence for Jesus	Books	2	12	40	N	N	Don't Confuse a pastor's arguments with Truth	Pastor Strobel reports the case FOR Christ, but he misleads hisreaders by advertising &quot;hard-hitting cross-examination&quot; thatnever appears.  Here's an example.  Strobel says the odds against Jesus satisfying eight prophecies are a million billion to one.  That might be true IF Jesus had satisfied the prophecies - but he did NOT. The prophecy about being born in Bethlehem says &quot;one born in Bethlehem will rule in Israel.&quot; That's why Herod killed the Jewish children, to prevent a king from challenging his authority.  Go back and read the entire Chapter 5 of Micah.  The prophecy says a ruler will destroy the cities of Israel's enemies.  When did Jesus do this?  Obviously, he didn't.  Mark says Jesus became famous after he exorcized a demon in a synagogue.  Read that account.  This invisible demon said, &quot;I know who you are.  You are Jesus of Nazareth.&quot; How did an invisible demon know Jesus by name? Obviously, Jesus had one of his friends (Peter?) pretend to be possessed, and go into the synagogue where people who believed in demons could see his exorcism...[Strobel is] a pastor selling his religious beliefs, not a seeker after Truth.  END	2000-04-21
US	49667787	R1N7UUJPI8S7H4	1576831124	240797901	Beyond the Cosmos: What Recent Discoveries in Astrophysics Reveal About the Glory and Love of God	Books	2	14	60	N	N	Why do christians misrepresent scientific discoveries?	Hugh Ross gives a strange account of his conversion to Christianity.  He  claims that he examined the claims put forth in the Genesis creation  account and found them more accurate than any other religion.  That's  probably true, since all of the religions he examined were invented more  than 1,000 years ago.  His mistake in reading Genesis - and its a huge one  - is that he claims the stars (galaxies, etc.) were formed before the first  day of creation.  If you read the text, &quot;trees bearing fruit&quot;  were created on the fourth day, and the &quot;sun, moon, and stars&quot;  were created on the fifth day and &quot;placed in the rakia of the  heavens.&quot;  So the creation myth in Genesis says there were trees on  earth before the sun existed, which is what some primitive desert nomads  believed 3,000 years ago. And that's the problem with his books.  We never  know when to believe anything he states is &quot;scientific fact,&quot;  because his &quot;ministry&quot; apparently requires him to distort or lie  about obvious facts in order to trick people into thinking Christianity is  credible.  And it isn't.  The simple truth is that the sun existed for a  billion years before there was any life on earth, and Ross re-writes the  &quot;facts&quot; in Genesis to conform to modern theories so smoothly,  there's no way to tell what is true and what isn't.	2000-04-18
