US	49674866	R1YY8ZS89CPJB3	0760318085	841185812	Monster Garage: How to Weld Damn Near Anything (Motorbooks Workshop)	Books	4	14	15	N	N	Welding for airframes and NASCAR	The main gripe I have about this book is that it clearly has little to do with the kind of welding one sees on Monster Garage.  90% of the welding done there is on plain vanilla structural steel, probably with exhaust systems as the main excepion.  I don't doubt there have been a few projects with some aluminum, maybe the boat, some tanks or maybe a rad.    What I associate with Monster Garage is a) Jesse is a bike builder; b) the projects are mainly simple metal, sometimes some pretty big parts.  In this book the focus is on welding thin section 4130, and aluminum and magnesium.  This just isn't bread and butter for most folks who will respond to the title.  The book as you find it is about performance welding these high-tech/thin wall materials.  And claims to introduce production techniques from NASCAR (and airframe construction), which it is said has revolutionized frame welding because new production MIG techniques are used.  This is an interesting subject but again, not the focus of the kind of one-off buiding MG buider's do, or many workshop types.  Where it may pay-off for the average welder is in the techniques for MIG on AL, which at least get coverage.  Also, some of the jigging information may be of value to the one-off builder, it's interesting to see airplane wings constructed on wood jigs versus some of the behemoths often used to weld simple frame parts in the small shop.  A lot of weekend welders take their lead from set-ups used in production frame shops, for instance, and might get some simpler ideas here.  I'm pro stick myself, but the fact is it has little use in this environment of .065\\" wall  4130.  I think new welders will find the equipment selection information up to date, it captures the trends, though some of the photos are a few years old.  (Update, welding gear is changing fast.  Inverters for every price range, for one.  And like a lot of other stuff there are credible products starting to come from China, whether one likes it or not.Check online for latest info)	2004-11-02
US	49674866	R3CQVRAIHTCFYW	0071559663	772408769	Build the New Instant Boats	Books	5	15	16	N	N	Essential boatbuilding	This is the best book ever written on making small boats for rowing or sailing using modern techniques.  If you always figured you would like to build a boat, but were worried about making a success of it, this book, or the others in his series will ensure you get the job done. <br /> <br />Here are three reservations, just so you know: <br /> <br />1)  The building method know as tack and tape is original to the Bolger/Payson duo, and isn't state of the art.  Payson prefers working with fiberglass resin rather than epoxy, and those with an E allergy might agree.  But for others, this may send you off in the wrong direction.  Nonetheless the boats are great as designed, even if they could be better.  For instance in epoxy it would be possible to drop the frames and add solid transoms to better carry motors or rudders.  That's a better trade. <br /> <br />2) The designs are a little funky, which is good open thinking throughout, but for instance a person who bought one of these books because they noticed there was a sailboard would probably not be that satisfied, on the other hand it's a great plan to try out a little boarding on. <br /> <br />3)If you just wanted to build one of these boats, many of which are great like Diablo or Nymph, why not just buy the relevant plan?	2004-09-02
US	49674866	RASXHZC1UR8GV	0941936597	847131424	A Cabinetmaker's Notebook (Woodworker's Library)	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The most influential modern book on cabinetmaking	The most influential modern book on cabinetmaking, July 9, 1998 <br />Reviewer: A reader <br />First published in 1975, The Cabinetmaker's Notebook is a modern classic for those who wish to pursue cabinetmaking as a mode of sensitive self-expression. That may seem like a mouthful, but you either build cabinets because you need to store things, or for some less practical reason. As Red Green says \\"If your wife doesn't find you handsome, she should at least find you handy\\". That is one reason beyond the practical, A kind of I want to impress people stage. But when you get beyond that; the house is full of furniture, and your wife actually wishes you would come in from the shop once in a while, what keeps you out there? If it is a desire to do your best work, with the best tools and wood you can find then this book may be for you.  <br />Why do I call it the most influential book of its kind? Well partly because it influenced me, but it also struck a cord when it first came out in the seventies and the woodworking revival was underway. It is pretty much as valid today as then. Krenov, who grew up in the U.S., wrote these books while living in Sweden. They proved so popular that a school was created stateside at which he still teaches. Krenov's insights are of some use to people who pursue other crafts.  <br /> <br />The most likely volumes to share shelf space with this and other Krenov books are; George Nakashima The Soul of a Tree (worth it for the pictures alone) and Sam Maloof Woodworker (ditto) <br />	2004-09-02
US	49674866	R118NTEUUBQVZR	0670033340	201541704	Catch and Release: Trout Fishing and the Meaning of Life	Books	2	2	4	N	N	The road to boredom	A question mark hovers over the autobiography written before, say, the age of forty.  Maybe the same sort of suspicion should exist when someone writes, about fly fishing before the ink is dry on their first license.  But then again, what if it was a really good book?  We will have to wait to test that out - this is an awful book.<br /><br />What's it about?  Fishing, life, philosophy?  Who cares, my brain hurts hearing his Philosophy 101 approach molded to a new subject.  That's Kingwell's gift, he's the talking head they call, in Canada, when a news subject requires some tedious philosophical pandering.  Yes, you will find this all immensely edifying -  if this is the first book you have ever picked up.<br /><br />For someone who is looking for some philosophy and fishing, consider Fishing and Thinking by A.A. Luce.  A little old fashioned, Fishing and Thinking is nonetheless worth the time.	2004-09-02
US	49674866	R1HKML8RQNDBK0	0865714339	332671923	The Art of Natural Building: Design, Construction, Resources	Books	4	173	212	N	N	Slightly delusional	This is a very interesting book.  It's mostly not about natural building, but rather a book about alternative wall building.  Of the four major parts of a house - foundation, floors, walls, roof - this is an awful lot of information about walls, and very little else.  Foundations covered in a few cursory pages, almost nothing on roofs, and nothing on floors at all, except for ground level earthen floors.  <br />There is less world-saving going on than meets the eye.  Almost all the bad stuff whether large amounts of timber, or reviled composites is in the roofs, floors, and foundations.  When it comes to having wildflowers as part of the roof, they even embrace some pretty nasty membrane products.<br />There is also a fair amount of self-delusion going on.  In the section on timber frames the author mentions the savings to be had by timber framed walls vs. stud walls, but makes no mention of the unsustainable old growth used in timber frames.  Nor does he mention that the infill to timber frames is either the same studwalls he claimed to avoid using, or highly toxic SIPs.  in total most timber buildings are built twice once for the frame, and enough infill material to again carry all structural loads.  The same comments can be made about straw bale, cordwood and so forth, often as much wood is used avoiding studs as using them.<br />Natural building is completely unlikely to make an ounce of green difference in the West.  It mainly won't be used, and where it is, it will just be another trophy home &quot;look&quot;.  Still it's all great stuff for dreamers, and the odd few who will actually build their own little earthship.<br />Because of all the authors contributing, the standard of information is highly inconsistent, but in the main good.  Do we really need to read after 200 pages a section on timber framing that starts from theoretical constructs like what is architecture and engineering, and works on to maters even more obscure?  Nonetheless, there is solid information throughout the book.	2004-05-17
US	49674866	R2TX5W86ICTK8E	0385500246	600331387	Dave Pelz's Putting Bible: The Complete Guide to Mastering the Green (Dave Pelz Scoring Game Series)	Books	4	8	11	N	N	What did you expect?	If you want the simple putting advice, Dave has your message, and has the 10 minute series of book/video/TV show, etc....  If you want a shorter version of the theory behind his putting, then read Putt Like the Pros, though it's a little dated.  If you want to know everything he thinks he knows, and all the the reasons behind it, get this putting book.<br />I think expecting something called the &quot;Bible&quot; to be a point form game improvement card is dubious thinking.  On the other hand it's fair to state you can reduce the implementable part of your game to a few things:  You don't need 20 000 strokes to pattern the pils stroke as well as your current stroke if your a hacker, because it's highly unlikely your current stroke has been repeated 20 000 times in a row.  You should be able to get some advantage from pils from stroke one.  What's the biggie.  <br />I added a wedge, carried their 12 distances on a card and carried a laser range finder, and bingo got a huge lift out of the Short Game Bible.  These books are easy to implement at a modest level, but you do have to read them first.  Believe me, it's time better spent than reading Berhard Langers putting book!<br />I think the hacker needs to get into putting as much as the expert, but the thing is so many people cheat putting at the hacker level, picking up balls and all that, and not counting strokes that why bother practising when all is forgiven.  If you play golf you need to know how to putt.  Few people really play &quot;golf&quot; though.<br />One problem with all this stuff is course conditioning. Hack courses are &quot;real&quot; golf.  Many great courses have pretty chunky greens.  But PGA type course have awesome greens.  This book is really for the great green type course, I've played places so bad you would be better to putt with your wedge.  Tactics like putting from the fringe would be insane.  Horses for courses.	2004-04-23
US	49674866	R106MLGSJPKLBL	0865714754	56955505	Cordwood Building: The State of the Art (Natural Building Series)	Books	5	51	63	N	N	Cordwood WALL Building	New society has hit a home run with their recent building books.  Cordwood Building now moves to the front of the line for those interested in this kind of building.<br />BUT, keep in mind these alternative methods, be they straw bale, or in this case Cordwood Building, only deal with the walls of the building (the book covers roofs, but they are basicaly standard details).  All the difficult decisions, and high performance solutions are really needed to build the floors, roofs, and foundations, but these don't seem sexy topics for alternative construction.  Cordwood is just a slow way to build walls that would be every bit as good (with careful detailing) and a lot more resalable if they were made from 2x lumber.  Rather than spending weeks or months getting your walls up, 2x takes an afternoon for 2 people on average sized floorplan of the kind of house being built here.<br />We have a group building a cement and foam alternative construction at the end of the road, and they are engaged in months of building with their floor exposed to the weather, while they finish off walls that would have taken a crew of two only a week.  Beware of these nifty solutions to non-problems.  It only take 1 4x4 per 8-10 of wall to hold up a second story, don't fall into wallism in building your house.<br />If you want to learn about cordwood, however, this IS the book.	2003-11-16
US	49674866	RP45MQ4R53QAG	0709048092	344949096	Making Master Guitars	Books	5	38	38	N	N	Greatest book on classical guitar	Great book that has measured drawings of many master guitars.  Unlike steel string guitars, where a few models dominate, and look different, say Gibson vs. dreadnaught martin, classical guitars look externally quite similar, while varying a lot internally, and otherwise.  Many of the great artists of the steel string guitar play factory models, for a variety of reasons.  Top classical guitarists largely play models that originated in small shops with one or a few craftsmen.  For these reasons anyone who wants to make a study of building classical guitars will find this eclectic group of guitars very important.<br />However, one should consider:<br />The building instructions are 1) European in orientation, few jigs, open assembly and so forth, actually the best place for any guitarmaker to start, but not how most here do; 2) Weak in places, because the writer is not an expert guitar builder himself, though overall very helpful, and a useful reference.<br />The flip side of a great book on classic designs is that it isn't a good book on current designs.  Guitar making theory has advanced somewhat (though one doubts the new instruments are better, they are nonetheless preferred by many anyway).  Tone vs. durability or volume for instance.  There has been a huge amount of new detail added to modern classicals, for instance work on intonation, volume, wolf notes, fingerboard playability, longevity, and so forth.  this stuff isn't here, but on the other hand, it's plastered over the internet.<br />If you have seen the violin book, this one isn't the same.  The violin book was partnered with a greatish builder. Deals a lot with modern practice (though being violins, that isn't that different anyway), and the violin book doesn't have lots of useful measured drawings (any in fact), because you can get patterns of the ouline parts for strads etc...<br />With whatever reservations, this is the greatest book on the classical guitar, and very reasonably priced, it used to sellfor 100.	2003-11-01
US	49674866	R3BCZ25KX8396J	0811806405	808368966	Guitarmaking: Tradition and Technology: A Complete Reference for the Design & Construction of the Steel-String Folk Guitar & the Classical Guitar (Guitar Reference)	Books	3	31	36	N	N	Dated but excelent	This book was a huge inspiration when it first came out about 15 years ago.  Sadly they haven't updated it, and nobody has published a better book built on this one's foundation.  This has probably been fifteen years of the most rapid change in lutherie.  <br />When I finally got around to building guitars, I hardly cracked open this book, there wasn't anything in it of importance to what I would do.  The more modern resources were hugely abundant and mostly free.<br />The book also hops back and forth between classical and steel string guitars.  I would not buy this book to build a classical guitar.  There just isn't any of the pertinent modern or old school information between these pages.  You have to root around to get the modern stuff, and either a measured drawing, or Masterpiece Guitars would be the best way to get started on the classicals.<br />The kind of thing you really do to build a good guitar is:  There is a lot of interest in Tores classicals, and Hauser.  For Hauser you get Jeff Elliot's detailed plan and articles from back issues of American Lutherie.  If one was interested in Torres, one could get the great book on the man and his guitars by Jose Romanillos.  Romanillos and Elliot have also given the key specifics on the exact features of a tores guitar that make them work, particularly with modern strings.  It's actually easier to get going as a beginner or an advanced student, from the magazines and the web.  Not true of all craft, but it's true here.<br />The modern steel string is also not represented in this book, there is a ton of interest in Concert planforms, acoustic electric guitars, jigging manufacture (both amateur and pro), different types of guitar for rhythm vs. say fingerstyle, performance bracing, and so forth.  Most informed consumers would make these kinds of choices when buying a guitar, but non of them are covered here as points of departure for a builder.  It takes some skill (it seems like everyone is doing it) to make a guitar, but it doesn't require any more skill to start making the right guitar.  But you won't get that from this book.	2003-11-01
US	49674866	R3EXUA9TO03TQL	0958907501	696212287	A Guitar Maker's Manual	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I wouldn't buy it if I lost my copy	The problem with the lutherie books market is that it has nothing to report from the last 20 years.  The whole subject has jumped ahead, and yet the books remain in the 70s (having been writen in the 80s).<br />Most beginers and others would be better served by getting the LMII catalog, some relevant back issue of American Lutherie, and hanging out on the web.<br />This book is well liked, because it moves the markers ahead in the sand a few months from Cupiano's dreadfully out of date volume.  it contains things like a diagram of the Fox side bender, which you can find better info on all over the web, including the factory tour posted of the Fox fascility on the frets site.  This is just one area where the books don't cut it.  Do an amazon search of the last 5 years published titles in woodworking or almost any field, and then in lutherie.  Books just aren't how luthiers comunicate.  They actualy really spread their techniques around generously, they just don't write books.	2003-11-01
US	49674866	R1DPX407CZSF76	0200716239	944572200	Two Girls, Two Catamarans	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Back in print	This interesting little time capsule is back in print in a handsome new edition with many new photographs.	2003-06-18
US	49674866	R4MSS3OSQP5IJ	1561583286	367327058	Framing Roofs (For Pros By Pros)	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Good reference for stick roofs	In recent years, the roof has become the focal point of many NA homes.  No longer content with simple styles, rangy, monstrous roofs are the norm.  Additionally many of them are likely to be built with either trusses, or maybe manufactured wood sticks.  These techniques shave dollars right into the developers pockets.  And frankly have become the norm in the last 5 to 10 years.  They aren't much covered in this book.<br />The reality is that these new story and a half high, architect/engineer designed truss roofs, factory manufactured, and crew/crane installed are a little much for the average homeowner.<br />On the other hand, if you want to cut your own roof, this comparatively recent book gives you all the info you will need to build 2x roofs in many styles.  It's a good basic reference, that covers a lot of procedural detail.  I find it very useful.  If you are only looking for a roof's worth of studs, you will have no difficulty finding the materials for a stick built roof, of generally higher quality than the truss roofs so popular today.	2003-04-23
US	49674866	R108FWSPCVDAF1	1579902308	355044740	The Chairmaker's Workshop: Handcrafting Windsor and Post-and-Rung Chairs	Books	5	19	19	N	N	We need more woodworking books like this one!	There are few woodworking books that cover a subject as well as this one.  It isn't so much the depth of the coverage, but the completeness with which this book gives you the necessary information to cover the projects in question.  <br />The book deals with tools, techniques, and has plans for just the chairs the average person drawn to this subject will want.  That may sound fairly typical, but take tools.  We don't just get a few pictures and lines per tool, we get information on how to build tools like a travishers, shaving horse, how to grind drill bits, or sharpen the specific tools the chairmaker will use.  You get all the information you will need, and none of what does not apply to the subject.  Drew is a retailer, teacher, tool designer, even takes tours to tool makers, so when he tells you about tools that's it.<br />Every part of the book has that kind of focus and concision.  There are instructions on a workbench, but it isn't the usual kind, but obviously a chairmaking bench.  I have a cabinetmaker's bench, and don't need one for chairs, but if you did, it's there.<br />Drew is an authority on certain chairs, and they're covered here.  He isn't perhaps as much of an expert on Windsor chairs.  But he brings all the necessary info into the book.  I have a set of plans from Dunbar (the authority), but these plans leave all the critical measurements out.  To get those, you have to take a Dunbar course.  But the dimensions are here, and there is a chapter on how to develop your own plans, with an exhaustive table of angles that you can apply to any design.  No nonsense, no holding back.<br />I wish more woodworking books were like this one.  All the necessary information, on a prime topic.  No necessity to bring together 5 other books to cover related topic.  A large number of detailed plans for the most important pieces.  As technical or as direct as you want.  This book has book-depth information, with magazine like style (meaty sidebars) and currency ofinformation.<br />The author holds nothing back, even though every word he writes might take away from his opportunity to sell you a tool, or a course.  He just tells it straight regardless.<br />A masterpiece.	2003-03-31
US	49674866	RZUBWBKLOP25P	0811705277	255588455	Drag-Free Drift	Books	5	4	21	N	N	I haven't read this book	Leaders are one of the few pieces of gear that make an enormous difference in fly fishing.  Judging by equipment sales, there are some people out there who would like to buy some piece of gear that would make them better fishers.  The leader is far and away the most likely to allow you to buy an advantage.  The obvious example being the Harvey Dry Fly leader, which guarantees you at least as much drag free drift as a week at the best fly fishing school. There are many other examples.  My advice though is to search out a formula for a leader for polish nymphing, and get Presentation by Gary Borger.  It has the best chapter on leaders I have read, and a few hundred other worthy pages to boot.	2003-01-06
US	49674866	R1GJNFBKU3YJDD	0553563513	40945852	Point of Impact (Bob Lee Swagger)	Books	3	1	16	N	N	You sure can't put it down	Largely well written the story is so derivative it seems less a homage, than a cut and paste job.  Lord Jim, for the torture that plays on vanity, the seven rescuers which has been done over and over, the heart of darkness for the river, and a Kurtz like character who has gone nuts, and so it does.<br />The gang of old men is pretty offensive to the memories of the people involved.  Why select characters drawn from real life, but then fictionalize them in ways that seem unlikely to be in character.  And they wouldn't be a dream team.  It is like the recent DC sniper issue of whether the \\"snipers\\" had to have training.  You don't need training to make a 100 yard shot, you don't need legendary marksmen.  You need folks you have known a long time, presumably from Swagger's military past.  Criss-crossing the country, recruiting a movie star, it is laughable.  <br />As usual the gun stuff, is only partly correct, despite the raft of advisors.  He really needs a gun editor or something, since he seems to be partly always writing for a gun savvy audience.  As Bridget Fonda says in Jackie Brown about her gunrunning keeper \\"He's just repeating stuff he's heard.  He's no more a gun expert than you or me\\".<br />I wonder who the whipping advisor was.  Is it true whips crack because they break the sound barrier?  Sounds highly improbable to me.  Flyrod/lines are basically whips, and they snap in the air, if you get your timing, in their case, wrong.  It is just the very tip colliding with the near tip portion, going in opposite directions.  To get to 1088 fps the whip would somehow have to juice up the speed of the tip by ten times the speed of the hand.  Anyway you will have a lot of time to consider the phenomenon since he refers to it many times.<br />It's a story with a pulse.  A bit embarrassing to read though, verges on the pornographic.	2003-01-06
US	49674866	R38LVQI75783FL	4770020848	812589948	Small Spaces: Stylish Ideas for Making More of Less in the Home	Books	5	19	21	N	Y	Deserves space on your underfloor shelf	Azby Brown lives in Japan, and has written a number of books about Japanese design, or carpentry, from the perspective of a close observer.  <br />This book deals with design and product approaches to living in small spaces without clutter.  The premise is that the smaller a space is, the more it needs to appear empty if living in it is to be fully comfortable and satisfying.  This isn't a book on how to load more gear into more &quot;storage solutions&quot;, though some unusual solutions like underfloor storage are elaborated.<br />Granted a lot of this stuff is not going to be transferable to American houses, and some of the details, like miraculously small appliances are not even well illustrated (most ilustration are very good).  But then there is a huge market for books covering professionally created 25 000 square foot spaces in Carmel by the Sea, or whatever, and I am not likely to fully implement ideas from those books either.  Frankly adapting the spirit of this book is much more likely	2002-12-26
US	49674866	R3C3OPMQT6AB9A	1585743399	831466892	Advanced Fly Tying: The Proven Methods and Techniques of a Master Professional Fly Tyer--37 Important Patterns	Books	5	14	15	N	Y	Lots more to like	There has a been a certain amount of carping about whether the material in this text is really \\"advanced\\".  I think that's fair.  This isn't a PHD in flytying, but if you like AK, there is lots more here to like.  <br />There is advanced material here like his chapter on dry fly collar shape.  There is other material, like that on buying hackle, that is for professionals no doubt, but not useful unless you are buying hackle by the gross, and willing to dye it all. Though the approach he takes to the task is interesting, this is professional, not necessarily advanced content.<br />I found the chapters on vise maintenance and hand position baby.  I have one of the earliest HMH vises too, and I haven't oiled it in 25 years, and I have tied heavily including professionally.  I certainly wouldn't oil it with facial oil, which can be salty or acidic.  On hand position, the fact is that if you can secure material to the hook properly, then you are probably already doing the stuff described here, though it might be useful to a beginner.  <br />I loved the long sections on small flies, almost a book within a book. I also liked the other section on new or revised flies.  It is, however, hard to know the validity of these patterns.  I don't fish the same waters he does, and in general, his patterns aren't top sellers, nor are they likely to be correct as sold, given his sharp standards.  But there is something about his flies that seems right, and I don't tire reading about them.  Even his close friend Gierach makes the point, however, that some of these new innovations may only help 1 out of 10 times.  So rather than the information in all cases being that useful, it is just fun to see what he has been up to with his flies, and where they have taken him since his last book.<br />AK has produced another classic.	2002-12-26
US	49674866	R2N76VCLJPF4HW	0806987251	765687837	Quick & Easy Custom Cabinets	Books	4	14	14	N	Y	Good starting point for boxes	This is an excellent text if you want to build plywood carcased cabinets with a biscuit jointer.  The approach is for those with a few basic tools, like a table saw, and a biscuit jointer.  Screws are used in the place of clamps in most instances.  The book wrings the maximum out of these humble means, and the author's logic in coming up with the system he has, is very keen.  <br />On the other hand, the results while neat enough are not up to current standards.  Guidice maintains these methods are the backbone of his professional shop, a claim that is hard to credit either in terms of efficiency, or results.  On occasion, throughout the book, methods of low efficiency are suggested, methods that leave a trail of ugly plugholes.  Often these methods make sense, because they keep the system described in the book accesible to those with only the basic tools.  In fairness, however, when compromises are being made that are not efficient or clean, that fact should be noted and explained<br />Guidice, a woodworker who has appeared several times on the cover of a national woodworking magazine, has produced here a book with barely a single piece of attractive furniture illustrated in it (and furniture is illustrated).  A unique achievement.  I am not being picky, nothing here would grace even the amateur gallery of a woodworking magazine.<br />Nonetheless, the methods described here could form the basis for a home cabinetmaker to make some nice boxes, quickly.  That's a worthwhile, moneysaving subject that this book covers well.<br />This book is in some ways the flip side of Guidice's Seven Essentials.  No dovetail saws here, but a solid approach to any panels of plywood you may have lying around	2002-12-26
US	49674866	R1KE0Y9ZELRXNM	1571882448	981718383	Dry-Fly Patterns for the New Millennium	Books	1	4	5	N	Y	Disappointing	I am a big Poul Jorgensen fan.  I found this book disappointing.  This book raises expectations, both that it has something to do with Jorgensen, and that it might have something to do with forward looking dry fly patterns of the millennium. But it is a failure on all points. <br />All Jorgensen did was take the photos, and write a short blurb about taking the photos.  He submitted a fly. If he had something to do with choosing the other flies, then I am really disappointed.  While he refers to each fly as a &quot;masterpiece&quot;, many of them are really poorly tied, standard patterns un-attributed to their originators, or nondescript balls of fluff.  By and large there is little commentary to indicate what is significant about any of the patterns.  The next great innovation may be among them, but you won't know it from this presentation.<br />My heart rose when I saw a fly by noted tier Roman Moser.  Apparently a two-for-one deal, since the pattern description is for an entirely different fly!<br />Whoever said &quot;life is 90% just showing up&quot; would like this book, since in general that is all that must have been required for one's pattern to be included here.  The producers could have said it was an unfiltered cattle-call from the end of the century, and &quot;look this is what we got&quot; (somewhere it would have mattered like in the title).  Maybe even producing a clever catalogue identifying interesting issues about a smaller number of patterns.  It might have been worth it, and it would have been a more straight forward representation of what the book is about:  Not a dinner in a fine restaurant, but a pot luck supper.<br />There have been a pile of recent books with loads of patterns, and some loose pretext like the Umpqua book, or books by various clubs.  Usually they are a lot of fun.  this one seems an exploitation of the genre.  <br />Best to pass it over.	2002-11-20
US	49674866	R1Y0SCFSJYTLXP	157188260X	476053750	Matching Mayflies: Everything You Need to Know to Match Any Mayfly You'll Ever Encounter	Books	5	5	5	N	N	All the general info you need	Not sure why this recent book showed up so low on the list of his books.  Its an excellent summary of mayflies, and contains a good distillation of the main must-have flies, with tying instructions.  The book describes a system for being ready for anything without carrying everything.  It is the usual thing: narrowing the flies you carry  with careful lifecycle, size, and colour choices.  I have been seriously fly fishing for 25 years, and still found lots to consider about his approach.<br />I really only have one quibble about the book (and his others for that mater), and that is that Hughes is not a particularly gifted tier.  This is not a good book upon which to base your style.  If there is a series of flies in different colours, they sometimes all look different in form also.  He never seems to get the same result twice.  When tiers have a strong stylistic vision, it speaks to how they see the effectiveness, aesthetics, and structure of a fly, so you just learn more from viewing weel made flies.  This limitation would most affect a how to tie flies book, which this isn't.  But there are enough patterns that it will doubtless serve that role for some.  On the plus side, it is obvious that Hughes must catch trout on these patterns, so one needn't feel intimidated by one's own efforts should they be rough also.<br />Hughes is a hugely prolific writer, and I have several of his books, and don't find them particularly repetitive.  But common sense should dictate caution if you have a number of his titles that may cover the same material.  An extensive article/extract of this book was carried in one of the fly mags, so you may feel deja vu there also, though I found the book more useful.	2002-11-10
US	49674866	R15S97DISMM3FI	0942391675	117157880	Working at Woodworking: How to Organize Your Shop and Your Business	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Fun and nutritious!	This books is both useful and fun, but in an unusual way:  It combines solid business planning information with a lot of information on how to set up your shop.  I have read a number of woodworking/business books, and they are dull, not enough jigs and tool talk.  Here you get both in an integrated way that makes each strand more useful:  All the technology has a purpose.  <br />Really a unique way of packaging a woodworking book.  Of course the ultimate lesson is that you should drop all that woodworking nonsense and like Mr. Tolpin become a nationally recognized writer of coffee table books.  They're good too, but I miss him.<br />Oh, by the way, the focus is a two car garage sized cabinet shop.	2002-11-01
US	49674866	R2569DND5APEF2	0924486562	921748899	Multihull Voyaging	Books	4	6	6	N	N	The Ocean, on five dollars a day.	Jones has crossed the Atlantic ocean numerous times in multihulls of his own design. He is cheap to a fault, so if your dream is a 2 million dollar catamaran then this probably isn't the book for you. Jones is a small time boat builder of generally simple boats, and his thoughts run to those subjects. I find his ideas relevant, particularly to those who still build their own boats. Sure there are many more sophisticated boats available from other designers, and I probably wouldn't build a Jones boat. But his ideas are a useful reference to what is really needed to get out there. <br />Jones has figured out how to cheaply do a very expensive thing - take-off to go sailing for months at a time. His ideas are structured around that activity. Many of the expensive multihull features he dislikes (like folding systems) actualy make the occasional sailor's life easier and less expensive.  But it's still the case these systems ad cost without doing much to asist your transat.<br />I agree with others who like Chris W's book (you might as well buy both). I recently coresponded with Chris about one of the cheaper of his cruising designs, featured in that book, the E-34. Sorry, no longer available, he suggests his 44' trimaran instead. When I find $2-300 000 I'll get right on that. It's like anything else there is room for all kinds of budgets.	2002-08-15
US	49674866	RQ85RXBE2CCG1	0918804124	634912442	Chainsaw Lumbermaking	Books	5	9	10	N	N	The Strait Goods and a Lot More	This is the usual good book from the folks at Fine Woodworking.  ... <br />This is a basic book that tells all you need to know of chainsaw milling.  It goes one step further with the author's contraption for moving the mill with a boat winch.  I have never tried it, but if I milled on a regular basis I would.  <br />Chainsaw mills are perhaps the only @ $1000 woodworking tool with a one day payback period.  The only thing that has changed since this book was written is the prominence of bandsaw mills, some that are even hand carried and pushed.  I would have to check one of those out before getting into another chainsaw mill. <br />Sure there are a few money shots of milled wood used in various projects, but at the time, there weren't 20-100 magazines, and 1000 books celebrating woodworking, wooden architecture, and so forth.  A little inspiration is a good thing.	2002-07-30
US	49674866	RK674HCM8OUFO	0684102269	56149765	Racing and Cruising Trimarans	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	Back near the begining	Back when tris were mostly made of plywood, this book was writen as a serious designer's statement.  Tom Firth Jones, refers to it as one of the books he relied on when learning the ropes.  If you are interested in design, or the scene at the time, this is a good book.  He also wrote a similar title on cats.	2002-07-30
US	49674866	R1HV9GO6PGOB94	0207189161	523347581	Blokes And Sheds	Books	4	0	0	N	Y	Of cultural interest	As a Canadian version of a bloke with a shed, I found this book fun and interesting.  On the other hand, it emphasizes the anachronism, and is really more of a cultural commentary than relevant to the DIY crowd.  Being Australia, the sheds are mostly metal.	2002-07-30
US	49674866	RP4YWIMC3CV20	0878121668	635681150	The Gougeon Brothers on Boat Construction: Wood and West System Materials	Books	5	21	21	N	N	Still good after all these years	I have both copies of the book, and the 85 version was considerably updated.  About 8 years ago there was talk of a new version, but I guess that has been shelved,<br />The biggest changes in recent years, haven't been so much in epoxies, as they have in methods.  Cold molded boats are still made, but with computers (as sophisticated shape generators) and better fabrics, the majority of great new boats are being built strip style.  There is little coverage of that here.  Neither is there coverage of Constant Camber, Duracore (though there is balsa core relative stuff),  Cylinder Molds, glued lap, and the list goes on. <br />Few amateur builders have ever lofted a boat these days, it just isn't the same scene.<br />But on the other hand these guys understand wood.  They go into a lot of non-hull details, from decks to gas tanks (though they no longer recommend the latter.  If you read and understand this book, you will be a far better wooden boat builder.  There really isn't anything else as serious out there.  Mead Gougeon's tri made Sail magazine's (I think) list of the 30 most important boats,  I don't think anyone else who made that list has written a similar book.<br />Other than 207 hardener, their epoxies remain much as described here.<br />Oh by the way, they have a free booklet on strip building.	2002-07-30
US	49674866	RUZAJLDWV8DJF	1585740381	205865150	Selective Trout: Revised and Expanded	Books	5	5	19	N	N	Most important book ever written on fly fishing	I wish I could say I had read this book, but I really just dropped by to see how they handled the revision.  The original edition could, arguably, have handled my review title.  It was at once one of the most influential and controvercial books ever written on the subject. Influencial because it more or less kicked off the analytical scientific approach to fly fishing literature in the mid-seventies, and controvercial for everything from advocating no hackle dry flies, to short rods. <br />There isn't anything new in fly fishing, or at least that's a safe premise.  How they got all this stuff in one book so early is a mystery.  But even if it wasn't all new - some say no hackles were the first dry flies for instance, hundreds of years ago - there are books and times that come together in a fresh way.<br />Now can someone please tell me how they handled the revision, is it re-written, and re-thought, or just fact checked with some new photos?  I couldn't tell by leafing through it at the local store.	2002-04-13
US	49674866	R25JR842YQJXYK	0806925272	469181987	The Seven Essentials of Woodworking	Books	3	18	22	N	N	Take this book with a grain of salt	If the idea of this book appeals to you, go for it! Your in good hands generally. But it doesn't entirely pass my laugh test on several counts.<br />First the title (which could be the work of the editor or something) doesn't make much sense. These aren't seven fundamental categories.  You really need at least a separate category for chisel work (smushed in with mortises) and a separate chapter for carcass joints like dovetails. Even then they would only be the essentials of square boxes.<br />The other area where the book has shortcomings is in the author's verdicts on tools or techniques. He comes off as ill-informed and short tempered in some of his comments. Take saws. He favors a bowsaw, and he has the courage to push this least popular of all types in NA (even his beloved German makers are stocking Japanese style saws). But what shred of credibility does his comment that a backsaw saw is inefficient have? Or the same in reference to panel saws? These tools, when well made, are highly superior.  Panel saws may not cut as fast as bowsaws, but they cut where bowsaws can't.  There are many other examples.<br />In two areas, planing and tenons, while there is much that is good they are not the best techniques. Missed is the key technique for planing to a flat surface. And paring the sides of mortises that have been drilled is an occasionally useful technique, not a central one for the cabinet sized work featured here.<br />I think the harsh tones of the book may come from the author's well intentioned effort to get us all moving more towards doing work rather than arguing about tools and technicalities. He hopes that setting seven goals, and keeping us on the straight and narrow will help us to be better woodworkers. If you haven't already been there and done that, then it is good advice. But he doesn't appear to see the irony in the fact that he has just waded further into those very same waters he counsels us to avoid.  He has written a book that seeks controversy while he counsels the rest of us to stick to the work.y while he counsels the rest of us to stick to the work.	2002-03-21
US	49674866	RAGRWC1W3PPKJ	1890132640	363276407	Serious Straw Bale: A Home Construction Guide for All Climates (Real Goods Solar Living Book)	Books	5	107	107	N	N	No Bale Left Unturned	This book now rockets into the forefront as the most complete straw bale book.  It seems pretty much to be all here:  Interested in mud floors - got it; Interested in earth plaster - It's here too.  All the main building subjects are covered, often exhaustively.  Once one strays from the 2x4 and block foundation, into alternative building, there are by definition a lot of options.  There isn't a standard set of details yet for bales, which partially accounts for the length of the book.<br />The authors come from the enviro alternatives camp, but they aren't romantic about it.  Expect some well deserved skepticism about the virtues of Nebraska style load-bearing walls in cold climates.  On the other hand they leave the decision up to you.  After spending 12 pages telling you why you might not want to build load bearing walls, they spend 22 more pages telling you how to do it (not to mention the countless other pages devoted to related topics). <br />This book covers the subject of framed straw bale walls more completely than any other thus far.  This is an important addition to the literature.  While the authors are driven in this direction by the realities of snow loads that are not experienced by all, those who live in wet climates, or wish to build multi-story houses will find much of use here also.	2002-03-11
US	49674866	R2CZJ9VJO2ZGVY	1898049122	502523369	Out of the Woods	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Best Segal self-build book	This is the best book on the Segal style of self-building popular in the UK.  There are three elements to the Segal movement: A practical building method for light wood frame buildings; An ecological approach to building; A track record of owner built communities.  This book sticks mostly to the buildings.<br />Segal built houses are essentially stick buildings made up of ring frames, raised like the bents in a timber frame building.  As a structural type they would only be a footnote to post and beam or platform framed building, even if they took off in popularity.  They nonetheless provide an attractive, light on the land approach that, aesthetically, is reminiscent of Japanese houses made modern (I suppose one might say Tudor also).<br />When the book touches on the other themes of ecology and social housing it misses the mark somewhat for most readers, I suspect.  These subjects are covered comprehensively elsewhere in the Whole House Book (also Borer and Harris), and the Self Build Book.  These themes are also more contingent on local situations and views.  For instance the idea that it is more environmentally friendly to burn oak hardwood than say natural gas, because trees when re-grown will be greenhouse gas net-neutral due to the trees' consumption of CO2, is mildly ridiculous.  I guess it depends on whose lungs are downwind.	2002-03-06
US	49674866	R3DAARFG6I1AQL	1571881964	34972468	Trout Flies of the East : Best Contemporary Patterns from East of the Rockies	Books	3	3	4	N	Y	Great fun!	This book is great fun, and I will certainly enjoy testing some of the regional patterns on my waters this year.  The good part is that the patterns are more local (if you are from the east, if not other regional guides exist), not the usual western patterns that make up most pattern guides.  <br />The downside is that one gets the feeling that little peer review stands behind these patterns, and that perhaps a Rolodex had more to do with their inclusion than their individual merit.  The nearest submitter to me runs a fly shop I haven't been able to find with a &quot;house to house search&quot; of the community in question...	2002-01-29
US	49674866	R3O642S5VN1864	0811706273	153511912	Poul Jorgensen's Favorite Flies and How to Tie Them	Books	4	3	3	N	Y	Tie with a master.	Modern Fly Dressings for the Practical Angler, to which Poul Jorgenson's Favorite Flies and How to Tie Them acts as a sort of revised edition, was one of the most influential pattern/concept books of its day.  This book, with the addition of colour, is somewhat more diffuse in scope, as is modern fly fishing, and contains some of the same patterns and many new ones.  Overall the result seems less pleasing, and the absence of dubbing blends (PJ was marketing Sealex at the time) is but one way in which the book seems less focused.<br /><br />Jorgensen has a book on realistic fishable trout flies begging to get out, by some accounts he is working on one.  Should it be published we will have a more worthy successor to Modern Fly Dressings for the Practical Angler than this one.  This book is, however, a fine effort and will please those who have no comparisons to make.  Newcomers will be offered a glimpse of why Jorgensen now stands in equal rank with other great Catskill tiers, and why he inspires other contemporary masters like Oliver Edwards.  Oliver Edwards' Masterclass would accompany this book nicely.<br /><br />2013 update is that I still refer to this book quite often.  I now fish the hammerhead deerhead streamer regularly.  I have also added 3 Jorgensen flies to my regular box, which is actually pretty unusual.  Normally only stuff like the Wooly B. make it to regulars status.	2002-01-29
US	49674866	RHWKPBCRWELZR	0806985720	978007089	The Fine Art of Cabinetmaking	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Classic stands thre test of time	Krenov's famous cabinetmaking techniques layed bare, July 8, 1998 <BR>Reviewer: A reader from Toronto <BR>This, Krenov's second book (1976), is the book that they still want you to have when you show up at the College of the Redwoods for Krenov's course. The book is devided into three parts: wood, tools and the shop, and cabinetmaking techniques. It sets out his techniques for mortice and tenon joints, dovetails, HANDPLANE CONSTRUCTION, and much more. The handplane section was so influential that several courses are taught on this subject alone, accross the country.<br />This book is indispensible for the serious woodworker. That said it is just a little dated since obviously a lot has changed in twenty plus years. Krenov labours close to the soul of cabinetaking, however, and a lot less has changed there than elsewhere. An obvious change is that Krenov's essential few power tools are now much cheaper to buy than they then were. But modern workers will probably assume that he now sharpens his tools with waterstones. Not so! As he recently revealed in a national magazine, and his reasoning is as sound as ever.<br />At a deeper level perhaps, the craft has become dominated by projects and production on the one hand, and arty self-congratulatory stuff on the other. In the old days there was another path, that of extrodinary quality and technical virtuosity. Few follow this path today due to cost, a skills shortage, and some lessened desire to have furniture which belongs in the boudoir of the Sun King. Krenov is one of the few who has written about another way: A sensitivity to wood, tools, and one's own heart.<br />This book is the most how-to of his essential trilogy. If that turns you on, try the Impractical Cabinetaker next, lots more \\"project\\" tips. If you like his philosophy of craft try The Cabinetaker's Notebook.<br />Mentioned above is the idea that the instruction on dovetailing has been covered better elsewhere.  It is true that there are some funky tacticsthat were necesary 20 years ago, that aren't with the explosion of great hand tools today.  On the other hand while there are tons of instructions on how to hack out some dovetails, there aren't many from the perspective of folks who join hardwoods like Pear and Ebony, and then sell the results for 20K.  These metal hard woods demand a different approach than for pine boxes, and you won't find that information in many other texts.	2001-09-18
US	49674866	RV8DMEH8XEJ5P	1552093425	37524371	Canoecraft: An Illustrated Guide to Fine Woodstrip Construction	Books	5	13	14	N	N	The best book on strip building	Moore's book was probably the first to deal with strip building using epoxy, and he has always been one of the best builders.  Last time I was at the Canadian Canoe Museum, he was there too, working in the shop.  There isn't anyone better than him, and he has written several great books.  He was generous to me 20 yrs ago, before the publication of his first book, when my epoxy was going bad, and he was helpful on the other end of the phone.<br />I have bought this the second book, and I think it is a useful revision to the first.  Some of the jigs are better, and the designs are far more useful than those that appeared in the first book.  I think they will appeal to most home builders, and combine several modern favorites, with traditional ones.  My one small quible is that in general we still don't have designs in these books which are the equal of those coming out of the best factories, say Bell as one example.  But that's the kind of thing that doesn't seem to interest most builders.<br />Others say the mold tables are difficult to read.  They are merely traditional.  Read them as feet, inches, eigths, and plus or minus 1/16.  That's boatbuilding.  Most builders will never try to loft these in several views, strips make a casual approach possible, since they are largely self-fairing.  That being the case talk of difficult lofting is highly exagerated.<br />Highly recomended	2001-09-14
US	49674866	RGIBAUL5ZE2GI	1892836076	751767961	With Wakened Hands: Furniture by Jame Krenov and Students	Books	3	26	26	N	N	A different kind of success	This book is quite different from Krenov's other, often intensely personal books.  His motivation, in large part, is to make the case for his student's furniture, and only by extention his own work, and methods of work.  He is concerned that the market hasn't a place for such work, and he hopes to make a place for it through this book.  Krenov's previous stance in the Impractical Cabinetmaker, wasn't concerned with lack of viability, but the market has changed, and his students aspirations have apparently influenced him.<br />The last book Krenov published prior to this effort was Worker in Wood in 1981.  In the intervening time, a great deal of his efforts have been spent establishing the Woodworking program at the College of the Redwoods in California.  When I first heard that Krenov was writing another book I had hoped he would bring us up to date on his approach to woodwork,  twenty years later.  It is clear when you look at some of his recent work that it is quite different from where he was 20 years ago.  It is also clear that some of the techniques then used have changed.  It would be fitting if rather than the older books simply being republished, he could bring his many admirers up to date with a new volume.<br />While this book is well done, and shows many handsome photographs, there isn't much new.  Many of the pictures have appeared previously in other publications, and the text, while powerful in places, is scant.  It is rather like a catalogue to an exhibition.  A dialogue between Krenov, his star pupils, and potential purchasers of their work.	2001-02-07
US	49674866	R2DQXP8HW53CA8	0865714037	662321764	Straw Bale Building: How to plan, design and build with straw	Books	5	40	43	N	N	Balefull	This is probably the best book yet for builders.  Of particular interest is the fact that as a Canadian publication the subject is covered from a cold climate perspective.  These aren't southwest styled adobelite homes, but homes from the snow zone.  Which is a useful addition to the literature.<br />The book covers both load and non-load bearing bale walls.  Most of the previous books I have read have given structural details for load bearing walls more so than non-load bearing.  This makes sense since non-load are basically just post and beam structures, which are covered elsewere.  But putting the information in a straw bale book, and integrating it is a big convenience.  To get up to speed before this book, I ended up reading all the other bale books, plus all the back-issues of Fine Homebuilding I could find, all the pole building books, timber framing, and post and beam books...  This book is a big time saver.	2000-12-15
US	49674866	R302GP8PR2L2YV	1561583510	54230436	Building with Structural Insulated Panels: Strength & Energy Efficiency Through Structural Panel Construction	Books	5	100	103	N	N	Comprehensive new book to cover emerging building technology	While SIPs have been arround for 60 years, the author believes the time is now for explosive growth of this technique for residential and commercial buildings.  <br />The book covers all steps in the fabrication and assembly of SIP panels and buildings in a way that isn't overly technical.  The emphasis is for professionals, and indeed SIPs present a challenge to the do-it yourselfer since some of the panel elements are so large a crane or forklift is essential.  SIP building as presented, however, seems very simple, and otherwise suited to self-builders.  In essense each panel when complete can stand in for many other elements: the studs, plates, the sheating , insulation, vapour barrier, fasteners, plumbing and electrical chases, and interior rough or finished surfaces.  <br />The book gives lots of information on different SIP types, and tools.<br />The book covers structural panels almost exclusively, in other words the simmilar panels used for timber frames etc..., which are not load-bearing are addressed, but are not the subject of this book.<br />My only dissappointment is that as an amateur builder the book doesn't deal with that aspect of the subject at all.  The field is relatively unfriedly to non-commercial participants.  SIPs are relatively hard to find in small quantities, and even though the process is simpler that stud building, for instance, they don't want to deal with you but your architect.  Not the book's fault.<br />The author seems a sincere advocate for SIPs, if at times a little closed to other alternatives, which would present less of a cultural, financial, or technical barrier to the average buyer or user. I'd like to believe him, but so far SIPs haven't made an appearance at the local Home Depot.  Most people have hammered a nail into a 2x4, but your going to have to buy into this system sight unseen, unless the SIP industry gets a little more democratic about its distribution.<br />This book was probably a three star or four star effortfor me, given my focus, but fully five star for the intended audience:  Contractors stepping up to the system for the first time.	2000-10-14
