US	49679088	RZZC55AKBHW7C	0140157379	446962747	Haroun and the Sea of Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	A charming and clever fable	The book was written when Rushdie had been hiding from Khomeini's fatwa. As perhaps may be guessed, the book is an allegory on censorship (hence Haroun's -- the boy protagonist of the book -- journey to remove the plug that clogs the flow in the sea of stories). Less known is the fact that Rushdie wrote the book in order to explain such situation to his young son Zafar:     [Z]embla, Zenda, Xanadu:   [A]ll our dream-worlds may come true.   [F]airy lands are fearsome too.   [A]s I wander far from view   [R]ead, and bring me home to you.     writes the dedication of the book. So it is little wonder that the book is fantastic and fun. But to reduce the book to a fable for children would be to miss out Rushdie's literary prowess. I had had not just a few chuckles during the course of reading; I found Rushdie's play on words thoroughly witty, and the creativeness innate in his gregarious characters refreshing.    The book arguably might be best enjoyed reading out loud to a child. I am considering doing just so to my adorable little niece.	2005-10-13
US	49679088	RONR3FK96WPVX	0553265954	881120122	Darkness at Noon	Books	4	3	4	N	N	The collective vs the individual	An aging Bolshevik Rubashov is detained and faces a trial for his crimes and disloyalty against the Communist party. From jail he recounts his life, and considers the strategy he should adopt for the impending trial. He had devoted his life to the cause of the revolution and had genuinely worked for the collective and had felt at ease using the pronoun we in place of I when expressing his thoughts. But this time around he finds himself using the subject I. He saved himself from two prior accusations from the party at the expense of others -- a devout party member and his own secretary. Was it all that worthwhile? The accusations were distasteful and groundless. Should Rubashov deny the allegations and face execution gracefully, as some inmates suggested? Or should he capitulate, denounce his former misdeeds and keep servicing the party? <br /> <br />Questions above are of course but simplifications. The dialog Rubashov carries out with himself is excruciating and changes with the people he meets, with further deliberation to his own past. <br /> <br />The popularity of the book may stem from it being one of its kind (ex-Soviet communist in doubt of the system and of his/her own past with the party). But its life-likeness can only be attributed to the author's experience under similar circumstances.	2005-08-15
US	49679088	R2IH82ZM1CM1YL	081121592X	396291874	Borges and the Eternal Orangutans	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Solving a mystery with Jorge Luis Borges	Packaged as a murder mystery, this is a witty and clever homage to the Argentinean writer Jorge Luis Borges. In fact the entire story (except during the final resolution), directly addresses Borges as the story's audience. Vogelstein, a Brazilian writer and translator of literature, delivers the narration.    Vogelstein perchance encounters a murder during an Edgar Allan Poe conference held in Buenos Aires. A German attendee, hated by many for his obnoxious views, is stabbed to death. The German's dead body forms the shape of V in front of a mirror. Vogelstein starts investigating with the help from no one other than Borges. Notice the letter and mirror motifs ubiquitous in Borges' short stories?    Did the cusp of the dead body point toward the mirror or did it form a right angle with it? With each different configuration of the body spawns another plight, another explanation, another clever conversation  la Borges, avec (with) Borges.    Borges dictates: \\"John Dee's Eternal Orangutan, equipped with a sturdy quill, enough ink and an infinite surface to cover, would end up writing all the known books, as well as creating its own original works. Though these, as you might imagine, would be of dubious quality. ...\\" to which Vogelstein replies: \\"Lovecraft being a notorious modern example of the Eternal Orangutan in action, because he invented a truth that already existed.\\"    What is with this monkey business? You'll have fun finding out if you enjoy passages like the above.	2005-08-15
US	49679088	R3TH9W5F3JD9C	1400075793	253560182	War Trash	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A meticulous recounting of life as a communist Chinese POW in Korea	Ha Jin recreates the experience of Chinese POWs during the Korean War to the minutest details. Yu Yuan, a graduate of Huangpu Military Academy, enters the war unexpectedly on the side of Communist China (against S. Korea and US). The story follows a single strand of narration till the very end thence on. The effect is as if we are given a journal of a real-life POW, with details during the war, and brief, wistful recounting nearing the end of the narrator's life.    As an intellectual, Yu Yuan ponders over the many facets of war. He does not subscribe to his superiors' thoughts just because they are from his superiors'. He is critical both to corruption of the Nationalist Party (led by generalissimo Chiang Kai-Shek), and, more importantly, to propaganda from his own communist party. Many times he is betrayed by his own country in the name of sacrificing for the people of China, and more than once the path of his fate changes for being forced to choose a side. His realization is that he and his comrades were war trash, dispensable pawns played by the high officials for ulterior motives.    The narration is without embellishments. There are no build ups, no manufactured tension. As already stated the book reads as if it is a first hand account, and the reading experience thus all the more powerful.    It is known that Ha Jin writes in English. It will be interesting to see if this work gets translated in mainland China.	2005-08-15
US	49679088	R1MFEV63L08YH2	0440241359	520405863	The Rule of Four	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A coming of age story at Princeton	On the surface (or at least how it is marketed) the story regards the cracking of the Hypnerotomachia Poliphili, a book written during the Renaissance, an enigmatic book whose intent supposedly hasn't fully been comprehended (it is relayed in the beginning pages of this book that the first translation of Hypnerotomachia Poliphili appeared a few months before publication of this book). True to this outer layer, the book contains exciting passages of puzzle solving that rivals those depicted in, say, Dan Brown's The Da Vinci Code. But to conclude that the book is of purely entertainment value would be a grave understatement. In my opinion, the book is the celebration of great friendships, and, more generally, of the coming of age of the narrator, Tom Sullivan at Princeton. <br /> <br />So there may be two distinct reviews for this book. Readers expecting to find non-stop action as in The Da Vinci Code may find the tempo of this book rater slow -- the book does build up to its revelation, but in no way as fast as in Dan Brown's. On the other hand, if you are like me, you will find the coming of age story congenial, a pleasant surprise. In fact anyone with fond college day memories will find details rich enough to get him/her reminiscencing. <br /> <br />Many had expressed to me that the ending of The Da Vinci Code disappointed them. The secret pertained so much, but the revelation yielded so little, they complained. The Rule of Four is no different in this regard.	2005-08-06
US	49679088	R11U4300Q0PDZK	0140258795	803603230	Longitude: The True Story of a Lone Genius Who Solved the Greatest Scientific Problem of His Time	Books	3	3	6	N	N	The invention of the modern chronometer	This is a story about the invention of the modern chronometer (clock). The chronometer was not invented to a means to its end. Rather, it was invented to solve the long-standing problem of determining the longitude. In a gist, the longitude of a location can be calculated by 1) knowing the time of noon at two distinct locations A and B (easy to determine by shadows), and 2) knowing the time difference between these two locations with sufficient accuracy. Knowledge of the length of the circumference of earth then yields the longitude (one hour of difference in time equals 15 degrees of longitude separation).    While the likes of Newtons and Galileos were looking to the stars for the solution to the longitude problem, John Harrison, a carpenter by trade, pursued the mechanical solution, his clocks.    The story Sobel tells is well textured, elegant, and scholarly (though the book contains no references, as the author intended it to be a popular account). However I found myself not being absorbed into the story completely. The book in my view lacked a solid buildup, or, a better way to relate to readers. For this reason I'd recommend the book only to readers particularly interested in maritime history.	2005-08-06
US	49679088	RWTOJ6KZIP468	0802117880	459227645	Sightseeing	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Violence through tender eyes	The collection conveys intricate sensibilities. All stories take place in Thailand, and evolve around events involving some form of violence. Violence here is not confined to physical violence -- it appears for e.g. in the form of government corruption (bailing out the sons of the privileged from getting draft -- in Draft Day), the common hatred of Thais against Cambodian refugees in Thailand (in Priscilla the Cambodian), and more subtly in the form of objectification of the Thais by farang (foreigner in Thai language) tourists (in Farangs). With the exception of Don't Let Me Die in This Place, stories are told in the first person voice, as young adults, and suitably so. For it is through their sensitive eyes that the subtleties of those various forms of violence get exposed. The tellers, the protagonists, do not necessarily understand what they are going through. Yet their lives transform. And readers are drawn into their narrations, as if experiencing the unfolding events first hand.    Vivid as they may be within each individual story, the invariable tone loses its freshness by the end. The manner in which the protagonists deliver their speech, the mode they appear to think in, appear excessively uniform across the stories.    Overall a very commendable read. I look forward to reading more Asian stories from Lapcharoensap.	2005-07-28
US	49679088	R311XMO3EQC0JB	006073132X	150560620	Freakonomics: A Rogue Economist Explores the Hidden Side of Everything	Books	3	7	11	N	N	Is not having a unifying theme in a book a good thing?	...The authors appear overly proud of not having one. Needless to say, books that lacking a unifying theme can be good -- but in my opinion it is necessary at least to possess consistency in some manner. This book, which attempts to answer as diverse questions as 1) the reason behind the sudden, unexpected decline in crime rate in the 1990s, 2) why drug dealers tend to live with their mothers (instead of moving out), 3) whether the distinctively \\"black\\" names endow black people with black identities or conversely given black names are merely the result of black parents naming their children so, etc, fails to convey consistency. Put it another way, the book is at best a compendium of interesting but short articles on disjoint topics. <br /> <br />The book by nature falls into the same category as with Malcolm Gladwell's The Tipping Point and Blink. Gladwell's arguably contain less statistical details, but in my view delivers his points in a more coherent and interesting manner.	2005-06-20
US	49679088	R13YJOBQOMYY3K	0671027360	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	1	2	N	N	The winning formula	You are reading this review not because you've been looking for great prose, nor because you wanted to broaden your horizon. Most likely you've read the preceding sentence to find clue as to whether this book has as much entertainment value as you desire. There were passages in which it was impossible to suspend disbelief (for instance the helicopter \\"scene\\" near the end of the book -- I'll leave the description of the scene at this for the fear of becoming a spoiler), but overall the book was a fun read, even surpassing the entertainment value of the author's widely successful Da Vinci Code. The plot of Da Vinci Code in my opinion ran out of stream roughly half way through that book; in Angels and Demons, the plot pretty much held its integrity till the very end. <br /> <br />What makes Dan Brown's thrillers so intriguing? My take on this question is that, Brown succeeds in appealing to the it-all-makes-sense-now mentality. Brown's ability to weave a coherent \\"theory\\" from seemingly disparate artifacts to me is the source of his strength. The art is much like connecting dots. You cannot see what the resulting picture unless the dots are all joined together; however once the dots are all joined the picture emerges almost as if trivial. <br /> <br />The dots are necessarily things laymen possess the capacity to identify. In Angels and Demons the central dots are obelisks and pyramids within or nearby cathedrals in Rome. You might have asked, but immediately assigned to oblivion: \\"yes, I've seen them in Rome; what are those pagan symbols doing there?\\" Brown instead works them out: those symbols exist there for good reason (secret masonry). Connecting those dots, he weaves a plausible story, and hearing this, you feel as if encountered a revelation. <br /> <br />Interesting as those symbols may be, they are not the only subjects Brown so successfully utilizes. Take the dialogues in Italian for instance. There is at least one sentence in Italian for every ten pages of the book or so. I for one do not speak Italian, but the words chosen in those sentences resemble words in English enough for the lay reader to make sense of. The effect is a sense of empowerment to the readers. <br /> <br />I very much look forward to reading Brown's next novel. He clearly knows how to make use of his winning formula. The question is whether he'll find enough symbols that do not feel stale.	2005-06-04
US	49679088	R3A2UZOKNAT5UW	0393051692	652501598	Incompleteness: The Proof and Paradox of Kurt Godel (Great Discoveries)	Books	4	5	8	N	N	A romantic view	The book begins with a story about the daily walks Einstein and Gdel used to take to and from the Institute of Advanced Studies at Princeton. Einstein supposedly said that he went to his Institute office \\"only in order to have the privilege of walking with Gdel.\\" It is a serene, almost beautiful scene that sets the tone for the entire monograph.    However the actual content of the exchange between the two giants is not divulged and we are left to wonder. In this sense the scene epitomizes the biographical parts of the book. As the author proclaims, not much is known about the actual life of Gdel.    The absence of hard data propels the biography to the depiction of Gdel's surroundings. A large proportion of book is devoted to the Viennese circle (which Gdel was a member of), Wittgenstein and in particular to the different views between positivists (what cannot be observed cannot exist) and Platonists (that we cannot see doesn't imply that it does not exist). Interesting as the anecdotes are, Gdel remains a marginal figure. It is even questionable whether he actually thought along those concepts, let alone actively partook in such debates. The author suggests that Gdel may have been a Platonist (he very well may have been one) but as noted earlier there no hard evidence seem to exist (no pun intended ;-)).    I enjoyed chapter III (the book consists of 4 chapters), where the author lays out, in layman's terms, her tutorial on Gdel's proof. The author's exposition is clear, and provides for at least the understanding of Gdel's program (for the actual proof). Of course the devil is in the details and particularly so for a proof based upon numbers, but one gets the overall idea.    However what I most enjoyed was the author's passion, as in so: \\"Of course there is no proof that we know all that we think we know, since all that we think we know can't be formalized; that, after all, is incompleteness. This is why we can't rigorously prove that we're not machines. The incompleteness theorem, by showing the limits of formalization, both suggests that our minds transcend machines and makes it impossible to prove that our minds transcend machines.\\" I'll wager that Goldstein is a Platonist.	2005-05-21
US	49679088	R2BXXENCCSVFDY	0446692514	396332408	Feynman's Rainbow: A Search for Beauty in Physics and in Life	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Recommended particularly to graduate students	Often times in my graduate school years I've wondered whether I had what it takes to become a successful researcher. Back then it appeared to me as if there were too many bright people working on similar topics. It didn't help either that my own advisor seemed to understand everything I asked the moment he heard about them. No, he was not someone who would discourage his students in any way. To the contrary he had always been supportive and encouraging. Yet the uncertainties of the future kept me questioning myself on my own qualifications.    This is an utterly honest recollection of the author's first year experience as faculty at Caltech. Getting a faculty position in physics at Caltech is no small achievement, nevertheless the author finds himself pondering over the exact same questions. The author tries to find out however, seeking advice from others surrounding him. Of course amongst the others was Feynman, and the author makes great efforts -- for example sneaking pass the department's secretary to gain access to Feynman's office -- to seek Feynman's advice.    Packing to move never fails to bring about memories of the past for me. The book, acknowledgedly based on cassette tape recordings the author made during his encounters with Feynman, and found in the author's garage many years thereafter, evokes similar emotions. Mlodinow earned his learning. It would have been great consolation had I read the book back in my school days.    Addendum 1. Don't be fooled by Stephen Hawking's review \\"An accessible portrait of a brilliant man\\" at the back cover of the book. I suspect that Hawking never read the book. As alluded, the book is not solely about Feynman.    Addendum 2. A quick web search reveals that Mlodinow has since worked as a writer for the TV series \\"Star Trek: The Next Generation,\\" \\"MacGyver,\\" \\"Hunter,\\" and \\"Night Court.\\"	2005-05-10
US	49679088	RUI8IK6QOYDXT	0743247469	120358955	The Corporation: The Pathological Pursuit of Profit and Power	Books	4	13	14	N	N	A coolheaded call to action	This is a very readable exploration of the characteristics of the corporation as an institute. The author contends that the modern corporation \\"can neither recognize nor act upon moral reasons to refrain from harming others. Nothing in its legal makeup limits what it can do to others in pursuit of its selfish ends, and it is compelled to cause harm when the benefits of doing so outweigh the costs.\\" As stated in the book's introduction, the book is intended for the layperson. I found the author's exposition clear, and the examples he used to back his arguments compelling. <br /> <br />Despite the fact that the book discusses a dry topic the book has attracted popularity. This may be due to the documentary based on the book, but in my opinion can be ultimately attributed to the author's idea of giving a face to the abstract entities that are corporations. In a chapter the author pointedly asks a renowned psychologist (Robert Hare) to diagnose the characteristics of the corporation as if a person. The psychologist likened the corporation to a psychopath (The passage I quoted in the preceding paragraph should be read in this vein). <br /> <br />Shocking the amoral characteristics of corporations the author exposes may be, the critique against them is hardly new. The core-periphery theory in social sciences placed the harms of multinational corporations at the center of its argument. In fact it may be argued that the entirety of the author's criticism lies within the sphere of Marxist theory. <br /> <br />The strength of the book lies in its accessibility and updated, relevant examples. Inclusion of passages from interviews the author conducted with eminent scholars ranging from the far right (as Milton Friedman) to the far left (as Noam Chomsky), as well as with current business executives makes sets for an animated tone. However what I found most original and interesting was the author's legalistic viewpoint: <br /> <br />\\"No one would seriously suggest that individuals should regulate themselves, that laws against murder, assault, and theft are unnecessary because people are socially responsible. Yet oddly, we are asked to believe that corporate persons -- institutional psychopaths who lack any sense of moral conviction and who have the power and motivation to cause harm and devastation in the world -- should be left free to govern themselves.\\" <br /> <br />\\"One premise of democracy is that, as citizens, all people are equal, at least within the political sphere. Everyone has one vote, regardless of his or her wealth or social position, and that means, in relation to corporations, that every citizen has an equal say about how these powerful entities must behave. Moving regulation of corporations from government to the market immunizes them to the effects of citizen's participation in the political process and leaves their control to an institution where one dollar -- not one person -- equals one vote.\\" <br /> <br />And this incidentally is where the personification of corporations appeared most poignant.	2005-05-05
US	49679088	RELNF6MBVK3JV	1559707240	38230041	In Search of King Solomon's Mines	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A delightfully entertaining trip to Ethiopia	In a shop close to the Dome of the Rock in Jerusalem the author spots a map. The owner of the shop informs the author that the map depicts King Solomon's mines in Africa, the mines from which gold was extracted to build his famed temple. The fact that the map was not genuine (Shah finds an identical copy in the same shop soon after) does not deter Shah from embarking on his journey. Like many other travelogues by Shah, it is the experience but not just the goal that counts. <br /> <br />This is not to say that the author wanders about aimlessly. Quite to the contrary, he even risks his life for his quest, for e.g. in crossing deserts in northern Ethiopia with the infamous (for killing) Danakil tribe. As a review on the back cover of the paperback edition puts it: \\"...Shah wins you over with the mad purity of his quest.\\" I can't agree more. <br /> <br />Apart from the very beginning, the book situates itself in Ethiopia. From the country's epicenter and capital Addis Ababa some of the major sites the author visits: are Kebra Mengist to the south, Harar to the east, Lalibela (where the churches carved from crevices -- like Petra of Jordan -- are located), Debra Damo (the monastery located on top of a mountain top plateau) and Mekele to the north, and Tullu Wallel to the west. <br /> <br />The rich historical and anecdotal background Shah provides together with his wonderful sense of humor make for a powerful concoction. A group of eccentric characters make appearances, Shah reveals his reverence for Victorian era adventurers, and at times ponders over why his job is so much difficult compared to others'. There was hardly a dull moment during my read.	2005-05-04
US	49679088	R1X5K4EGJP2CH0	0375508465	558619526	The Truth About the Drug Companies: How They Deceive Us and What to Do About It	Books	4	8	11	N	N	Exposing misconducts by examples	The book was an eye-opener for me. In the past I have heard about the problems of large drug companies, but before reading this book I did not know the problems was as serious. <br /> <br />My motivation for picking up the book was a simple attempt to understand the reason behind some equally simple first hand experiences: 1) A friend of mine in the past made use of our trip to Vancouver, Canada for stocking up boxes of Claritin (allergy medication; then selling for over $40 per 10 10-mg tablets in US). In Canada it cost only about $5 for the identical amount. 2) During the Clinton era I recalled reading about the S. African government's declaration to produce or import generic drugs to fight HIV. The Clinton administration vowed to employ trade sanctions to block S. Africa's move, only to back off from public outrage. 3) A recent visit to the drugstore to find eye drops for easing dryness of my eyes left me confused. There were so many different products, identical in active ingredients contained, but differing only in their composition. <br /> <br />It turned out that my seemingly simple questions were for good reasons. I learned that it is more of a rule than an exception that drug companies 1) attempt to exercise monopoly as much as the (as the author puts it) flawed law permits (for e.g. the author discusses about a law which allows for an automatic 6-month extension of exclusive rights to a drug when the company that holds the rights sues a different company for infringement), 2) invest more in lobbying than in research, 3) produce drugs with identical ingredients but different brand names (what the author refers to as \\"me-too\\" drugs) so as to keep the price up, 4) try their best to influence doctors to favor their drugs independent of whether those drugs are beneficial to patients, and 5) exploit the loophole in the current system to produce clinical test reports that compare new drugs to placebos (sugar pills) instead of comparing them with older, proven-effective drugs. <br /> <br />The book proceeds by examples, typically by referring to a specific drug manufactured by a specific company (for example GlaxoSmithKline's Paxil), and by pointing out why the author considers the respective company's practice(s) problematic. Dr. Angell's exposition is clear and easy to follow. At times the book felt repetitive, but this in my view was because the drugs she used as examples appeared more than once for illustrating different problems. <br /> <br />For me it was particularly interesting to read Dr. Angell attributing the beginning of the malpractices of Big Pharma to the Bayh-Dole act (1980). At its inception the act's purpose was welcomed as a boost to the then slogging pharmaceutical industry. However it according to the author it created many loopholes and ultimately invited Big Pharma to exploit those loopholes. Note that Bayh-Dole was allowing for researchers and small businesses to patent medical discoveries and grant exclusive licenses to drug companies. Rewarding original discoveries is no doubt desirable, but granting exclusiveness to so important a thing as medicine does not appear to me right. The recent out-of-proportion \\"advance\\" in patent law in my opinion is something our legal system has to address immediately.	2005-03-15
US	49679088	R2XKJ369TQYUM6	0767907183	373262786	Irrational Exuberance	Books	3	3	8	N	N	Not as originial as one may expect	The book consists of six parts (introduction and five parts), beginning with an observation of the thence grown-out-of-proportion market, and ending with a call to action (to \\"get out of the US stock market\\"). Brave indeed, and timely too, but for the better part of the book not refreshingly insightful. At its core the author's claim is based on price-to-earnings/dividends arguments. This is not to belittle the importance of such measures. But if it were for this and only this reason that Shiller called for exiting the market, then shouldn't economists such as the late Franco Modigliani be also praised? <br /> <br />To me the last part that discussed desirable economic policies, social security issues, 401K, etc was the most educational. It provided a broad perspective on what should be done for the society as a whole. The middle chapters attempted identifying the plausible factors behind the run-up (structural, cultural, and psychological), but as noted earlier, I haven't found them particularly original. In my opinion it was the era that made this book important rather than the ideas contained within.	2005-02-25
US	49679088	R3JOK1QWML71VL	0743529138	524169980	Chinese (Mandarin) (Instant Conversational Language (Mandarin Chinese))	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Teaches you well, but not a lot	My stars are for the program delivering what it claims to deliver -- instant conversational skills. In this aspect alone the program is superb. I followed the instructions (at most 1 lesson -- 30 minutes -- per day, no books) and found myself being understood by my Chinese colleagues by the end of the program. What did I learn to speak? Well there lied this collection's shortcomings. While it teaches you well, it doesn't teach you much. This perhaps can be expected since the package in its entirety includes 16 lessons or 8 hours. In the end I think I've learned some 50 Chinese words, whose combination allowed me to compose simple (as opposed to compound) sentences such as: \\"I am <nationality>,\\" \\"I {want to/can/am going to} do <something> [{or/and} something else] [at what time],\\" \\"I have <something>,\\" \\"Where is <location>?,\\" \\"How much is <something>?,\\" \\"Who is <someone>?,\\" \\"What did you mean?,\\" (In other words, variations of simple sentences making use of verbs shi4 (be), hui4 (can), xiang3 (want to), yao4 (need/must), you3 (have), zai4 (located), ke3 (may) in pinyin.)    The program will doubtlessly get you started well, but you will have to fill in other rudimentary vocabulary from elsewhere. Though no direct comparison should be made, I once purchased a Spanish learning program of comparable length. The Spanish set included at least 10 times the words this set contains. As the Spanish program was not as effective (nor as leisurely-paced) as Pimsleur's program it was difficult to digest. However I could always play back the parts I missed.	2005-02-24
US	49679088	R22ZOJLKI9KP9N	014006110X	257388093	Waiting for the Barbarians: A Novel	Books	3	4	8	N	N	Existential ponderings over an imaginary empire	Contrary to what might come to expect, this novel is not about politics. Granted, Colonel Joll, whom delivers the mandate from the empire to conquer the barbarians to our protagonist the Magistrate, is political. He after all is the one who tortures the barbarians from the outskirts of the empire to justify the battle that eventually proves futile. However the Magistrate, an aging man looking forward to retiring from his post, is not political. A man of doubt, he has little conviction even in his own thoughts. It may even be argued that him going against Colonel Joll (and ultimately against the decision of the empire) had been the product of his impulsiveness rather than an assertion of his conscientious and/or just nature. In brief, the Magistrate is quintessentially existential.    By providing no clue to the time nor the location of the empire, the story intends to be an allegory, to appeal to the universal. If the focal point of the novel were in revealing the fleeting nature of human beings (a man can be reasonable but may also inflict pain upon others -- the barbarians -- without second thoughts, depending on the circumstance he is in), it could no doubt be said that the story portends universality. But then what can we make of, for instance, the dense references to the Magistrate's fascination with the barbarian girl's body? The Magistrate himself to the end of this story did not understand this fascination. What of his recurring dreams of the little girl in snow? The weight the author put on the particular (the Magistrate's personal ponderings) looked distinctively against universality.    I personally favor Coetzee writing in the third person's voice. A richly empathetic quality emerges when he writes in that seemingly detached, matter-of-factedly tone.	2005-02-03
US	49679088	R3DDWUCHGV9UG2	0316172324	968642731	Blink: The Power of Thinking Without Thinking	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Fascinating tales of rapid cognition	Gladwell without doubt understands the workings of the subject he explores in this monograph. From the moment I read its introduction, which described the curious case of some art experts identifying a fake kouroi (type of ancient Greek statue) at first glance, I \\"knew\\" (or \\"thin-sliced,\\" as Gladwell puts it) the book would be fascinating. <br /> <br />As is well publicized, the book is a collection of stories of how first impressions knowingly or not dictates our decision-making. Each chapter consists of a major case study, adorned with smaller cases that support the major one. In its insightfulness in pointing out details of everyday behaviors that easily go neglected the book resembles Atul Gawande's recent Complications (a reflection on everyday practices of surgeons). In its structure and in its roundabout way in implicating the human condition the book is reminiscent of Oliver Sacks' clinical tales. <br /> <br />Such similarity notwithstanding there is a difference between Blink and Gawande's or Sacks' books that shouldn't be overlooked. The subjects for each chapter of the essays of latter two were more or less independent; for Blink, the entire book is about rapid cognition. As such readers are subject to ask for more than a compendium of interesting tales. Examples of questions one might ask are: What percentage of our everyday decisions is based on rapid cognition? Are there particular fields/professions in which decisions are more prone to be dictated by first impressions? If so, why? What is a good criterion that can be used in determining whether to make the most of our brain's thin-slicing capability or to be wary of it? <br /> <br />It was indeed interesting to learn about our brain's capabilities and the advances in psychological science that studies this capability. But it was Gladwell's mastery in story telling that was the most impressive.	2005-02-02
US	49679088	R3E2YHVYOCPT1P	0671015206	826470409	The Millionaire Next Door	Books	3	10	15	N	N	Good in debunking the myth behind millionaires, but...	It was interesting to learn that the people with high net worth were not generally those who look that way -- according to the surveys the authors conducted, wealthy people were most often those who didn't appear wealthy. The secret of their high net worth, the authors contend, is that they are PAWs (\\"Prodigious Accumulators of Wealth\\"), or in other words frugal, those who save or invest a much higher percentage of their income compared to the rate they consume. The authors even go ahead to redefine what it is to be wealthy. Congruent to the results of their study, \\"wealthy\\" people are exactly those who continue to accumulate no matter what their income, and are not those who currently possess much but do not accumulate. Though simple at first sight, I found their new definition to be useful, and this much I can say that I have gained from the book.    However the lesson I mentioned I learnt is just about everything the book offers. There is no so to say royal way to make money other than being frugal, evading tax as much as one can, and allocating as much time and energy to financial planning as possible, the authors claim. Perhaps this is the reason why the second chapters on appear redundant. The car example the authors quote repeatedly throughout the book is typical in this regard. It was indeed interesting to learn that the Ford pickup model was the most popular (and not some conspicuous foreign made high performance car) among the millionaires surveyed, but calculating the cost per pound of a good fraction of the cars currently available in the market? The very first time the authors wrote about \\"you aren't what you drive,\\" I got the message. It would have been much more educational if the authors instead included a study on the distribution of the industries those millionaires worked in (there is a such list at the end of the book, but no distribution statistics).    Speaking of examples, I found some statistical results curious. For instance, in a early chapter of the book where the authors present a study on the ancestry groups of the millionaires surveyed (to ultimately claim that millionaires are mostly self-made) I could not find data for Afro Americans, Hispanics, or Asians. It is plausible that these ethnic groups (representing 28%+ of US population as of 2000) were not included because they did not have high percentage of millionaires per ethnic household and the table presented contained only the top ten in this measure. But recent studies of net worth stratified by ethnicity (for e.g. studies by L. Hao of Johns Hopkins Univ.) indicate Asian immigrants having higher median net worth compared to other US immigrant ethnic groups including Whites. Could it be that the majority of Asians are UAWs (the opposite of PAWs -- \\"Under Accumulators of Wealth\\")? As for a glaring omission. The authors assert that an overwhelming majority of millionaires they surveyed were self-employed. This much I am able to believe in good faith. But what exactly is the ratio between self-employed and not (for e.g. physicians, lawyers, engineers etc)? Wouldn't this ratio be more meaningful than including the types of credit cards those millionaires hold?    The strength of this book compared to others in the same category is in that the authors conducted real field work. Some results were revealing, but as noted earlier, many of them were redundant. It would be interesting to read a volume on the same subject that does not try too hard to appeal to the general public.	2005-02-01
US	49679088	R3SFVC33OJ7S7R	1555663273	550791096	The Machu Picchu Guidebook: A Self-Guided Tour	Books	4	99	99	N	N	Make sure you read it in its entirety before arrival	I purchased the book because I elected not to book a tour. I finished roughly half of the book on the train to Machu Picchu from Cusco through the Urubamba valley. I found the author's enthusiasm contagious -- by the time I arrived in Aguas Caliente, a short bus drive away from the citadel, I was excited. It was only after I physically ran into the entrance to the trail leading up to Huayna Picchu at the northern end of Machu Picchu that I learned the trail was open to the public to hike. <br /> <br />Huayna Picchu is the imposing peak that appears in the background of the most common image of Machu Picchu. Its peak hosts architectural structures of its own, and provides a spectacular aerial view to Machu Picchu. The very steep trail takes about an hour to climb. It is a site not to be missed in my opinion, but one has to plan in advance to visit, primarily because the entrance to the trail closes at 1pm. Huayna Picchu, though its name is mentioned in the book's preface, is not dealt in detail until close to the end of the book. This is why I suggest readers to at least skim till the end of the book before arrival. <br /> <br />Other reasons why the book should be read prior to arrival are for the obscure artifacts. For instance the image stones on the walls of Intiwatana (the principal temple), which supposedly represent (and replicate) the surrounding mountains can easily go neglected if one hadn't read the corresponding entries in the book -- the stones look like natural stones placed where they are by happenstance unless one knows of their significance a-priori. <br /> <br />The book is thorough, serves its purpose well, and as pointed out earlier, does not fail to convey the enthusiasm of the author. However I think it could have made better if it included a list of locations not to be missed upfront. Hiring a local tour guide arguably is the best option, but the book is the next best thing, especially if compared to other self-guides in print.	2005-01-27
US	49679088	R1KM7CGGGLOTGW	1400042909	737768410	Villages	Books	2	19	21	N	N	Not among Updike's best	I picked up the volume after reading from somewhere that Updike had as his protagonist a programmer looking back to his life. Being an engineer myself, and acquainted with Updike's masterful hand in weaving American history with the lives of his characters, I couldn't but hold high expectations for the novel. I was to be disappointed, and not only for my own, inflated expectations. <br /> <br />It will be little exaggeration to state that the book is a sequence of sexual conquests made by our protagonist Owen Mackenzie in various \\"villages\\" (villages refer to suburbs the north eastern suburbs -- Connecticut, Massachusetts). After receiving his degree in EE from MIT, Owen marries Phyllis, a year older classmate, math major, proud, and a tad bit tepid. Owen in one of many house parties held his neighborhood gets tempted by his hostess, and after the abrupt end of the fling, manages to transform himself into a ladies' man. A dozen or so similar instances pursue. I patiently waited for that distinctively Updikean moment of poignancy. Such moment never arrived. <br /> <br />Updike's ability in associating everything -- animate or inanimate -- with some sort of sentiment is nothing short from astounding. It makes one feel as if those objects have memories of their own. For this very reason I found the novel worthwhile reading. But with little wisdom or insight from Owen to impart on us, these sexual experiences of his reduce to mere elements in a long, parallel sequence. Am I asking too much in expecting more from Updike?	2004-12-10
US	49679088	RJ38581MJ8LIL	0231117930	499377435	A Thousand Moons on a Thousand Rivers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	The warmth of the old society	The platonic relationship between Zhenguan (female) and Daxin (male) occupies the center spot of the story. But it is really the thoughtfulness of Zhenguan's extended family members that touches one the most. Hidden behind seasonal festivities, articulation of rich food culture, and classic Chinese poetry etc, lay anecdotes of the traditional way of caring for others so warm that almost feels as if it glows. It is little wonder then, that this novel had struck a chord of nostalgia amongst the Taiwanese for the old ways of life. <br /> <br />Grandpa (of Zhenguan) sees a neighbor -- a poor salt merchant -- stealing snake melons from his garden but let's him go. Grandpa considers the action of this neighbor justified as the neighbor has a hard time feeding his ten-member household. Grandma (of Zhenguan) cuts out a lung of a toad to cure her grandson's disease but remembers to stitch back and release the toad. Toads can regenerate their lungs. The wife of Zhenguan's first uncle never changes her hairstyle, knowing that one day her mother-in-law (Zhenguan's grandmother) might need some straight hair to use as extension when arranging her hair in the traditional way. She only has her hair cut after her mother-in-law passes away. <br /> <br />With its frequent references to Buddhist sutras and classical Chinese poetry, one can only imagine how lyrical the novel could have been in its original language. The warmth of the characters nevertheless transpires.	2004-11-22
US	49679088	R2LHJHQSSGBO1H	0812967852	448968193	The Crisis of Islam: Holy War and Unholy Terror	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Informative, independent of political inclination	Recently Lewis has been under harsh criticism. His critics contend that Lewis falsely and unnecessarily associated the conflict between the West and the radical Islam organizations of late as an extension of the medieval Christianity-Islam conflict. They also assert that Lewis had \\"missed-out\\" in understanding the impact of post-Ottoman developments to the dynamics of the modern Middle East. However in my opinion central to their criticism is the fact that Lewis had served the current administration as something of an advisor for the administration's Iraq policy (and \\"failed\\" at the war). Lewis, his critics claim, shares with Kemal Ataturk the conviction that Islam is fundamentally anti-modern, and asserts that a convincing display of Western power will accelerate the pace of the Middle East embracing democracy.    There are more than many things one can learn from this little book despite such criticism. To the eyes of a nonspecialist the book is found well organized, to the point, and extremely informative. I do not know for a fact whether Lewis associating the Crusade with the confrontation predates bin Laden's 1998 message to the world, but it was the title of this message (\\"Declaration of the World Islamic Front for Jihad against the Jews and the Crusaders\\") that designated the Crusaders as the enemy of the World Islamic Front. Also mentioned in relative detail are the British and French occupations of the Middle East, the Soviet Union's influence in the region, as well as the stages in Middle East's formation of the perception of America.    The question of whether Kemal's way (total separation of religion from state) is the only way for Muslim countries to achieve democracy is in my view can only be verified through history. By this I do not mean (nor am I knowledgeable enough) to say that there cannot be a form of democracy that incorporates elements of religion. It is more to say that the world hasn't witnesses such system yet. And for this reason I find itdifficult to digest the criticism against this book. If the criticism were against the proponent of a failed policy it would be a different matter (I personally am against the intervention in Iraq). Luckily Lewis' such conviction is only mildly expressed in the afterwords of the book, and even then readers can decide for themselves.	2004-11-15
US	49679088	RIFJM3YLRUL4O	140003471X	615857333	Chronicle of a Death Foretold	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Bewildering	Yes, this is a story of a murder foretold. In fact the murder from the beginning is so bluntly bore out that the reader knows not what not to expect. It is not suspense that holds the reader to the book. Nor there is anything present out of the ordinary. Rather, it is the rhythm of the narration, the endless chattering of the town's inhabitants, and coincidences so rare that they can only be the consequence of reality that make the book so curiously compelling. It is as if Garci Mrquez had created something out of thin air. This is story telling of the tallest order.	2004-09-23
US	49679088	R2HA0W25GB08FY	0375422889	373105656	Persepolis 2: The Story of a Return	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A less but worthy sequel to the touching original	While the first volume packed historical events, the current volume delves more into personal development. The graphic novel spans her age between 14 and 26. During this period she wanders as a teenager in Vienna, returns to Iran spiritually barren and empty-handed, falls in love, gets married, gets accepted to art school, and divorces. I was most moved by her parents and grandmother. It was their affection and sacrifice that helped her move on. Will there be a third volume? It will be interesting to read about her view of the world as a mature person.	2004-09-20
US	49679088	R1NHHUTNJDM93K	037571457X	373105656	Persepolis: The Story of a Childhood (Pantheon Graphic Novels)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	A surprisingly moving tale of a childhood in Iran	This autobiographical graphic novel is a story of growing up in turbulent modern (1975-1983) Iran. This period had seen the communist movement, the overthrow of the Shah, the Islamic revolution, and the Iran-Iraq war. It corresponds to the author's age between 6 and 14. The author (born in 1969) looks back at this period with circumspect sensibility, and subdued emotions. The book gives life to a real human being -- a daunting task, given the prevalent one-dimensional prototyping of Iranians as terrorists and/or religious fanatics. Overall the illustrations were surprisingly expressive, and the storyline moving. I can't wait till I lay my hands on its sequel. The author is bound to grow up an intellectual.	2004-09-18
US	49679088	R2M4VXWP1F9W57	0375706852	127846038	My Name Is Red	Books	5	9	9	N	N	A masterful contemplation on 16C Ottoman miniaturist art	The red in the title refers to the color red. The red whose secret of manufacturing passed through Persia from China to arrive in Istanbul. And this red is as much of a narrator and character as any other human being that appears in the book.    Yes, this is a mystery (and a good one at that). It evolves around the making of The Book of the Festivities commissioned by the Ottoman Sultan Murat III. Each chapter is narrated in turns by the miniature artists (most of them were historical figures, albeit they didn't live in the same period), the text writer, his widowed lover, her sons (one of whom I suspect is a cameo appearance of the author, Pamuk), a Jewish lady messenger, and the murderer. Depictions of the characters' emotions, inner convictions, and pursuit of readers by the characters were captivating.    However as noted, the book is as much about paintings as it is about these characters. Subjects of paintings -- dogs, horses, trees, Venetian coins, even death -- boasts to the readers of their beauty, and speaks of their respective positions within the Islamic world from their allotted chapters. It is as if each of these chapters were a picture frame, viewed paradoxically through a from-the-ground perspective (Islam artists supposedly were only allowed to draw in the bird eyes view perspective, in the manner Allah sees the world). The human characters constantly ponder over philosophic questions about style, meaning, and representation of the world through the eyes of God. The question of how to adapt to artistic influence from the infidels (Franks and Venetians) is also dealt in great detail.    This is a book of both ideas and emotions. It was easy to see why Updike likens Pamuk to the late Jorge Luis Borges and Italo Calvino.	2004-09-15
US	49679088	ROL0VVNHH60QA	050051089X	338543470	Reading Buddhist Art: An Illustrated Guide to Buddhist Signs and Symbols	Books	4	18	19	N	N	In defense against some negative reviews	Imagine yourself in an Asian museum, or some Asian art shop, on whose wall hangs a scroll that depicted some sort of a Buddhist figure. Assuming that you're someone who is interested in art, wouldn't it only be natural that you turn curious in the identity of the figure? This book, in my view contrary to the negative reviews, does a great job in meeting such need. <br /> <br />The main part of book assumes a very convenient two-page format. The left hand side page consists entirely of photographs and illustrations. This side serves as the index -- as described above, you are to scan through these pictures to find which figure (Shakyamuni, Vairochana, Maitreya, etc), posture (standing Buddha, sitting Buddha, etc), artifact, mudra (hand gesture that is believed in the Vajrayana sect to facilitate reaching enlightenment faster) you seek to identify. To the right are explanations of related symbolism, function, different representations, convenient cross references, and even transliterations of the name of the identity in question into various languages (mostly Sanskrit, Chinese, Japanese; less Korean, Vietnamese, Mongolian). <br /> <br />The book evidently isn't meant to be exhaustive. As repeatedly said, I think it is to serve as an introduction to the field. Criticizing the book for being short is equivalent to saying that no introductory book deserves to be written. No doubt there could be more detailed and thoroughly researched references in the field. Yet for beginners like myself brevity has its own merits (though in the long run I might have to purchase one of those more detailed references). <br /> <br />Having said this much, some mundane criticism of my own: 1) all photos are in black and white, and a bit too small to allow for appreciation of the details -- imagine a colorful mandala (a geometric diagram that depicts the Buddhist universe) enclosed in a 4x4 inch black-and-white box. 2) In many cases the explanation on the right hand side page does not matchthe gesture in the accompanying illustrations.	2004-09-15
US	49679088	R3L949TA30W6AH	0684801221	737092002	The Old Man and The Sea	Books	3	0	2	N	N	Triumph of Style?	Official words of praise for a set of randomly-selected Nobel laureates (available at nobelprize.org): 1) Jos Samarago (1998): \\"who with parables sustained by imagination, compassion and irony continually enables us once again to apprehend an elusory reality\\"; 2) Gabriel Garca Mrquez (1982): \\"for his novels and short stories, in which the fantastic and the realistic are combined in a richly composed world of imagination, reflecting a continent's life and conflicts\\"; 3) John M. Coetzee (2003): \\"who in innumerable guises portrays the surprising involvement of the outsider.\\" Now for Hemingway's (1954): \\"for his mastery of the art of narrative, most recently demonstrated in The Old Man and the Sea, and for the influence that he has exerted on contemporary style\\"    While the first three commendations speak of substance, praise for Hemingway refers to style. This answered my question -- my reading experience of the book had been unexpectedly dry. An old Cuban fisherman Santiago, who dreams of lions on the shores of Africa, sets out sailing for his biggest challenge/catch. While the solitary narration of Santiago vividly reconstructed the challenge, and most of all revealed his own life-like character, I could not help but expect for more from this famed novella. Yes, it made me ponder over life, but shouldn't there be more to it?    In all justice, the book must have been great in earlier years. Deducing from the words of praise above, I surmise that the novella had been a victim of its own success. For how would it be possible for a reader to be impressed by its style when all contemporary works are influenced by it?	2004-09-15
US	49679088	RHIOTJXQ5KYBF	0465043550	915965329	The (Mis)behavior of Markets	Books	4	261	276	N	N	Mandelbrot's relentless persuasion	\\"...forty years after I started battle on the subject, most economists now acknowledge that prices do not follow the bell curve, and do not move independently. But for many, after acknowledging those points, their next comment is: So what? Independence and normality are, they argue, just assumptions that help simplify the math of modern financial theory. What matters are the results. Do the standard models correctly predict how the market behaves over all? Can an investor use Modern Portfolio Theory to build a safe, profitable investment strategy? Will the Capital Asset Pricing Model help a financial analyst, or a corporate financial officer, make the right decision? If so, then stop arguing about it. This is the so called positivist argument, first advanced by University of Chicago economist Milton Friedman.\\"     Isn't it this positivism that the majority of practitioners of finance exhibit? I myself, though not a practitioner, held such thoughts. My reasoning had been based however more upon majority's acceptance -- if everyone else is acting upon the assumptions of normality and independence, I thought, what good will there be adopting a new theory? Isn't finance more akin to social sciences than to natural sciences after all?     It is these beliefs that Mandelbrot sets out to dispel with this monograph. He does so convincingly with great confidence and tenacity. The book consists of three parts, first the examination of the current theories (CAPM, MPT, Black-Scholes), next explanation of his methodology (fractal analysis), and finally of posing questions that should be answered (Mandelbrot asserts that virtually all the current theories should be reexamined under more realistic assumptions). To readers who have followed Mandelbrot's findings even remotely, there are no new advancements recorded in this book per se. He explains with concepts he developed throughout his entire career -- fractals; more specifically self-similarity, long-range dependence (via the Hurst exponent), and fractal decomposition of [trading] time. Mandelbrot's original research without doubt launched an entirely new field of study in science and engineering. Here his objective seems to be persuasion of the general public that an overhaul of existing methods is due. This may be evidenced by the absence of equations in the main text (some are included in the notes/appendix), and by the existence of the second author of this book.    The book is also a trajectory of Mandelbrot's intellectual development. He explains, with characteristic detail, why, how, and when he has become interested in the problems as he did. The result is interesting accounts of historical figures (Bachelier, Hurst, Markowitz, etc) and records of encounters with eminent figures in mathematics and economics (L&#233;vy, Poincar&#233;, Sharpe, and Fama (his student) to name a few).    There has long been a need for mathematical models that reflect the market more accurately. Should the new models be in form of incremental modifications of existing models or should they be based on an overhaul of the foundation as Mandelbrot proposes? Be prepared to be challenged, if not altogether persuaded, by Mandelbrot's arguments.	2004-08-11
US	49679088	R1G3I3VZXBSFZ2	1400032717	459979615	The Curious Incident of the Dog in the Night-Time	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A charming, heartfelt novel	This is a depiction of the world through the eyes of an autistic 15-year-old, Christopher Boone. Christopher's prose is simple and terse. He bluntly expresses his distaste for metaphors because to him metaphors are nothing more than sources for confusion. As a result the book is scant in adjectives, adverbs, and verbs, anything that might invite ambiguity. However you should not allow this simplicity in presentation fool you. Christopher's is a sophisticated mind -- he would be able to explain to you things varying from the characteristics of black holes to the exact scholastic names of obscure animal species (unusual nouns are abundant). What he abhors is the uncertain, the un-orderly. He requires definite algorithms to perform even the most basic of tasks, like finding a way to his mother's new flat in London. <br /> <br />The breadth of emotion the author conveys through these simple sentences is astounding. For instance, was it not simple, abstract grievance Christopher felt when he encountered difficulties, discovered the truth about his parents? Readers are given the ultimate freedom to interpret, yet what we feel is nothing less than concrete. Deeply empathetic, and a well-deserving winner of the 2004 Whitbread prize in my humble opinion.	2004-07-29
US	49679088	R3K7QCD84TQX93	0918172020	302629952	In Praise of Shadows	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Aesthetics, in a personal tone	The book is at once a praising of traditional Japanese beauty, and a mourning of the gradual disappearance of it (Tanizaki was 47 years old when its content was first published in 1933). But in my opinion it is foremost a contemplation on the &quot;best way&quot; to appreciate Japanese art (emphasis mine). The way he repeatedly speaks of in the text is &quot;in shadows,&quot; where [Japanese] objects are free from the trivialization direct light subjugates them to, where objects reveal their natural gradation. Whether the object be a painting in a temple, lacquerware utensils in a restaurant, plated gold on walls, or even miso soup in a bowl, it is in shadows where Tanizaki finds those objects most beautiful. <br />  <br /> Why the difference in taste between Westerners and Orientals (the translation makes use of the word Orientals over Asians)? Tanizaki attributes it to different characteristics, and ultimately to skin color: <br />  <br /> &quot;In my opinion it is this: we Orientals tend to seek our satisfactions in whatever surroundings we happen to find ourselves, to content ourselves with things as they are; and so darkness causes us no discontent, we resign ourselves to it as inevitable. If light is scarce then light is scarce; we will immerse ourselves in the darkness and there discover its own particular beauty. But the progressive Westerner is determined always to better his lot. From candle to oil lamp, oil lamp to gas light, gas light to electric light -- his quest for a brighter light never ceases, he spares no pains to eradicate even the minutest shadow... <br /> &quot;And so we see how profound is the relationship between shadows and the yellow races. Because no one likes to show himself to bad advantage, it is natural that we should have chosen cloudy colors for our food and clothing and houses, and sunk ourselves back into the shadows. I am not saying that our ancestors were conscious of the cloudiness in their skin. They cannot have known that a whiter race existed. But one must conclude that something in their sense of color led them naturally to this preference.&quot; <br />  <br /> The book proceeds with anecdotes and observations. I found Tanizaki's exposition quiet (though others may disagree on this point -- I did not read much into the nationalistic sentiments others find so prevalent in this book), interesting, and congenial. My only regret in the book was with its size (it is merely over 50 pages). It would have been great if the text appeared instead as a chapter in a collection of essays by Tanizaki.	2004-07-22
US	49679088	RGOISHF5V6EPX	1400034779	405618230	The No. 1 Ladies' Detective Agency (Book 1)	Books	3	4	7	N	N	Humane justice	Smith creates a charming, considerate, overweight, wise, and, most of all an utterly convincing character lady detective Precious Ramotswe. Unlike usual detectives, Mma Ramotswe makes mistakes in life, and she does not hesitate to acknowledge them. She is proud of her homeland, Botswana, her heritage, her father, and even of her chubbiness, as being fat is the how good Botswanian women should be. She is undeterred by westernization -- she seeks to live her life by the traditional African way. Events take place in the vicinity of her city, and across the Kalahari Desert. The volume as a whole is of parallel structure, Mma Ramotswe solving one case after another. The cases she gets appointed to ranges from searches of missing people, finding out whether the appointer's husband is cheating, and tracking down a witch doctor responsible for killing a young boy for use in medicine. Upon resolution of each case, Mma Ramotswe seeks a middle ground -- it is not legal justice she is after; she seeks a humane conclusion, often times striving to protect the criminal in the aftermath, not to mention the victims.<br />The creation of the character Mma Ramotswe is the centerpiece of this novel. She is someone almost everyone would like to have as one's neighbor. Thus if you are looking for a warm, and, as the cover of the book displays, a life-affirming novel, this book could be for you. However if you are seeking a mystery with an evolving plot, it is likely that you'll be disappointed. I personally am yet to decide whether to pick up the next volume of the series.	2004-04-22
US	49679088	R1UDUT0I14H16Y	0375760903	271537012	The Coffee Trader: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Trading practices of the Jewish community, 17C Amsterdam	During the production of the film &quot;The Hidden Fortress,&quot; the famed Japanese director Akira Kurosawa had been quoted to have gone through the following iteration: a seemingly insoluble situation would be crafted, and only after a concerted deliberation by the production team would the protagonist be given a way out, and the film proceed to the next scene. The reader need only be reminded of this anecdote to grasp the nature of this novel. Where no friends remain friends or enemies remain enemies, the protagonist Miguel Lienzo, a Jew migrated from Portugal to Amsterdam, hurdles through the ever-changing vistas of deception and schemes to obtain a monopoly on coffee, then (17C) an unbeknownst commodity to Europe.<br />Tension is maintained throughout the novel by the sequential release of information. In place of the usual weapons, violence, and death, the sources of tension here are money (debt, credit, proceedings of deals from the Exchange) and the Ma'amad (the Jewish congregation), whose strict ruling proves a constant obstacle to liberal trading practices. Each piece of new information overturns what the reader had been made to believe till then, and Lienzo is forced to adjust his strategies accordingly. The book is written in a third person voice, except for the brief chapters written by Alonzo Alferonda, an expelled Jew and coconspirator of Lienzo's coffee trade. Alferonda's words not only add a personal tone to the book but also loom over the entire novel, portending that there are always additional dimensions to the unraveling schemes.<br />Liss' depiction of the stock exchange (options and futures were known to be traded back then) and the Jewish trading community in Amsterdam alone to me made up for an intriguing read. The masterful sustenance of suspension was a delightful plus. It was indeed difficult to put down the book after starting reading.	2004-03-23
US	49679088	R1E1R0BECYFP73	0142003786	630469625	Samurai William: The Englishman Who Opened Japan	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Vivid account of the early Japanese-European encounter	The book spans the time between the Portuguese navigator Ferno Mendes Pinto first arrived in Kyushu, Japan in 1542 (Pinto was the first European to set foot on Japan) till the time of the English pilot William Adams' death in 1690 at Adams' age of 55. Pinto's own records as well as Francis Xavier's (Spanish Jesuit missionary) are used to describe Japan during the time of Pinto. William Adams' ship log was used to reconstruct his voyage to Japan. Adams' ascension in the shogun's (Tokugawa Ieyasu) court is treated rather lightly through his own, scant records. The remaining half of the book roughly follows Richard Cocks' (an English Merchant who arrived in Japan later than Adams) account of events. This is first and foremost a maritime history. Though Japanese culture, domestic military struggles (Ieyasu's victory over the 4 regents, and over Hideyori -- Hideyoshi Toyotomi's son; Ieyasu had been appointed as the regent for Hideyori -- in Osaka) are covered, the emphasis lies on the voyages and the trades the 4 competing Europe powerhouses (Spain, Portugal, Holland, and England) made during this time span. Detailed descriptions of trades these four countries made at/with Bantam (Indonesia), Ayutthaya (Thailand), Moluccas (or &quot;Spice Islands&quot; in Indonesia), Macao, Ming Dynasty are plentiful. Also found abundant are: records of power struggles among these European countries, internal correspondences of the East India Company, and the vulgarities of the European sailors.<br />Given the title of the book I expected something resembling a biography -- I expected more first-hand accounts of Adams or clearer focus on him. However the book did not turn out to be a disappointment. To the contrary it was greatly entertaining to read maritime history weaved with individual voices. Later on I began to suspect that the publishers and not the author had named the book. The obnoxiousness of the subtitle &quot;the Englishman who opened Japan&quot; is my reason as of why.	2004-01-19
US	49679088	RS1Z3MF9UPPJV	0465069908	288556280	River Out of Eden: A Darwinian View of Life (Science Masters Series)	Books	4	2	3	N	N	An unrelenting case for evolution	This short (172 pages in total) volume is to briefly describe some ingredients of evolution theory and to quench the creationist agenda. It is unique in its unapologetic tone -- while other books on evolution attempt persuasion, this one bluntly dismisses alternative explanations on basis of logic. As such it is not difficult to imagine many becoming irritated by this book. However there are too many fine points to be missed if one chooses to ignore it altogether.<br />The river Dawkins speaks of is the river of DNA. Precisely because the information a gene passes on from one generation to another is digital (A, T, C, G) they are preserved well generation after generation. Using a surprisingly simple mathematical argument (Dawkins terms such arguments as &quot;armchair&quot; arguments) he demonstrates that everyone we encounter when we travel &quot;sufficiently&quot; back in time is either an ancestor of all of us or of none of us. Citing a computer simulation result built upon proven properties (for e.g. celibacy of mitochondrial DNA) and reasonable assumptions, he informs us that our most recent ancestor in the purely female line lived in Africa between 1.5*10^5 and 2.5*10^5 years ago. He shows by examples that the process of evolution is gradual, and asserts that nature seeks to maximize DNA survival (in Dawkins' jargon: DNA survival is &quot;God's utility function&quot;).<br />The succinct and clear exposition of the book appealed to me. Its fine balance between armchair theories and real examples, together with its accessibility (it does not require prior knowledge) made the book a very intriguing read.	2004-01-11
US	49679088	R2ZUIUWVA851TG	0385506198	869666762	The Natural: The Misunderstood Presidency of Bill Clinton	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Natural flow	I enjoyed the book thoroughly. From its dramatic opening till its end I never once lost interest reading. The text has all the qualities one expects from a solid piece of journalism:  depiction of events, environment surrounding the events, and analysis that are more in the nature of posing questions rather than of definite, authoritative answers. Klein worked as New Yorker's Washington correspondent during the second term of Clinton's administration.    Through this book I've learned for example about Clinton's involvement with DLC (Democratic Leadership Council), the formation of the \\"New Democrats,\\" why his (or Hillary's) health care reform failed (for pushing welfare reform at the same time -- due to inexperience), a brief history of the Gingrich revolution, his stance on globalism, plausible reasons behind his sudden resolution to fire missiles to suspected Al Qaeda camps in Sudan and Afghanistan (to avert attention from the Lewinsky scandal), and plausible [absurd] reasons behind his decision to grant a presidential pardon to Marc Rich. The book put events that occurred throughout Clinton's two terms brief and impartially into perspective.	2004-01-01
US	49679088	R3LNJL031P68CW	0393324397	861144841	Globalization and Its Discontents (Norton Paperback)	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A systematic critique of certain IMF policies	As many reviewers correctly point out, the book is not about globalization per se. It is about the tasks international financial institutions have to deal with *due* to globalization, and a critique of the current policies that concern economic crises, mainly those of the International Monetary Fund (IMF). The book starts with a brief history of the international financial institutions (IMF, World Bank, WTO, etc), and then proceeds with discussions of failed economic policies of the institutions. Specific examples (East Asia, Russia, Latin America) of failures of the IMF-proposed policies are provided in subsequent chapters, followed by what the author regards as the reasons behind IMF's suboptimal policies, and what the author thinks should be implemented.<br />Some examples of what Stiglitz considers as bad IMF policies: 1) At the onset of the east Asian financial crisis, governments of countries fallen prey held balanced to surplus budgets and faced low inflationary pressures. IMF at this time ordered these governments to maintain balanced budgets. (During recessions tax revenues decrease, thus to keep a balanced budget governments have to cut down expenditures, which would further depress the economies). 2) East Asian governments were asked to build trade surplus without resorting to currency devaluation or tariffs. (According to the author this effectively amounted to asking to cut income to reduce imports because increasing export was close to impossible under the situation.) 3) IMF called for rapid privatization in the midst of the 1998 Russian financial crisis. (At that time the author claims Russia didn't even have an effective tax system, rendering tax collection from the newly privatized companies obsolete).<br />Some reasons behind IMF's calling for bad policies: 1) &quot;Revolving doors&quot; -- US government officials do favors for companies only to be appointed heads of the very companies they help after end of term/resignation. 2) Inexperience of theeconomists within the institution -- many according to Stiglitz lack experience dealing with problems specific to developing countries. 3) Conflict of interest -- IMF policies consistently strived to protect creditors to the developing countries foremost. This may be seen in IMF's opposition to currency devaluation during the East Asian and Russian financial crises. 4) Lack of transparency in decision-making -- the developed countries hold majority votes in the institution. In fact only US holds rights to effective veto.<br />Stiglitz summarizes what is needed in the chapter titled &quot;The Way Ahead.&quot; In his own words: Acceptance of dangers of capital market liberalization and short-term capital (&quot;hot money&quot;) flows. Bankruptcy reforms and standstills. Less reliance on bailouts. Improved banking regulation under certain circumstances. Improved risk management, safety nets and response to crises.<br />It is interesting to see reviewers criticizing Stiglitz on a partisan basis. He did not purport nationalization of private companies, nor oppose market liberalization in this book. He simply emphasized the importance of sequencing and pacing of privatization and market liberalization. In fact it is such &quot;market fundamentalists&quot; that he criticizes. To him every financial crisis requires eyes specific to the problem -- unilateralism, and substitution of sound economic reasoning with ideology, are to be shunned.<br />Having lived in a country that went through a financial crisis that resulted in IMF intervention, I agree with Stiglitz when he says that bad IMF policies may lead the respective country's citizens to hating US. There the managing director Camdessus even had become a household name. Though I did not know whether the suggested policies would prove to be true in the end they certainly looked Draconian. The grievances of the people I felt palpable as well. <br />For globalization to succeed it seems evident that discussions regarding the practices of financial institutions are required. This book is welcome in that it brings to the table an open invitation for such discussions. Stiglitz' points are well argued and thoroughly researched. However due to his canon-like exposition (he goes back to the same crises over and over again to make only slightly different observations) the book becomes tedious in the later half, and for this reason I would only recommend it to specialists.	2003-12-29
US	49679088	R1HC0D3E4PDE5F	0743249992	281016025	Bringing Down the House: The Inside Story of Six M.I.T. Students Who Took Vegas for Millions	Books	1	8	15	N	N	One-dimensional telling of an unremarkable story	It really comes to me as a surprise that this book received such high ratings. In my opinion there aren't much to be praised. First, the story itself is unremarkable. It is about a group of post MIT students trying to make quick money from playing blackjack at casinos and living double lives. It would be unfair to criticize a book for not meeting my personal expectations, but reading the title, I expected something more spectacular -- for e.g., a towering event that led to literally \\"bringing down a house,\\" or an ingenious betting scheme that would leave no one unimpressed. The book had neither, not even a build up. Well, the last 1/3 of the book, which covered the cracking down of the team, may be seen as a build up, but even the crack down was not a result of the team posing a serious challenge to the \\"system.\\" The team had simply been making more money than the casinos had wanted (the protagonist, Kevin, later reveals that they had more than 30% return on investment for each of the 5 years he played). The story telling also leaves much to be desired. I really doubt that any of the team members was in it \\"for the game itself,\\" as the author puts it. Other than their appearance, ethnicity, and credentials readers get little information about the characters involved. Finally for the team's scheme, which happened to be my primary motivation for reading this book. As mentioned earlier, there is nothing new in the betting scheme itself. \\"Counting cards\\" literally mean keeping track of the cards dealt, although in a cumulative way: cards numbered two to six are counted as 1, ten and face cards -1, and the remaining 0. Roughly stated, players place high bets when the running count is high (which directly implies that there are more ten & face cards remaining in the shoe). The scheme the team actually used is only slightly complicated than this -- read the final chapter subtitled \\"An Essay by Kevin Lewis\\" at a bookstore if you are interested. The scheme worked for the team not because there was anything special about it but because the team worked as a team. It doesn't take a MIT graduate to figure this out.	2003-12-23
US	49679088	RRZ7U6BGJIZ6R	0525947647	857217799	Lies and the Lying Liars Who Tell Them	Books	4	11	16	N	N	Lots of fun	The book is an attempt to expose the deceptive rhetoric of the conservatives (mostly of Coulter, O'Reilly, Limbaugh, Hannity; less of Bush, Chenny, Gingrich, Wolfowitz). Liberals nowadays are in much need of a popular commentator 1) to defend against the plethora of conservative criticism towards the left, 2) because not responding to the false accusations amounts to admittance. Franken carries out this role successfully with humor and rigor (he hired a team to verify sources of claims present in this book). I enjoyed the book, and even learned a point -- that one has to verify validity of each sentence *independently* so as to guard oneself from falling prey to sleight-of-hand tricks, which Franken asserts prevalent in recent political commentaries (again especially in Coulter's, O'Reilly's, Limbaugh's, and Hannity's arguments). However the book lacks a constructive view. It criticizes the right, but stops short from providing alternatives. For instance in my opinion the book would have been better if a comparison to the Democratic Party's monetary policies was included in addition to his criticism against Bush's tax cut proposal (even if the proposal didn't make any sense to begin with). The best part of the book to me was anecdotes of Franken confronting proponents of conservative propaganda. Those were hilarious in a profane way.	2003-12-22
US	49679088	R2LL8H9SCBTCB8	0809058405	246141487	Innumeracy: Mathematical Illiteracy and Its Consequences	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Important book of diminishing appeal	The message of the book -- that mathematics (in particular what the author considers essential: a sense for \\"large\\" numbers, estimation, probability, and statistics) is too important to be left to mathematicians -- is clear, relevant, and important as ever. However in my opinion the examples Paulos adopts for illustration are currently too widely publicized to stir interest among readers with even a slight interest in the topic. Examples of such examples are: 1) spouse-choosing schemes (assuming that a lady is sequentially screening N spouse candidates, and that she cannot choose a candidate who she had previously rejected, what is the best strategy for the lady to pick the one she most prefers?), 2) can a baseball player whose batting average is better than another player for two seasons nevertheless have lower overall batting average than the other? 3) stock newsletter scam (suppose you wish to charge N number of people a fixed amount of subscription fee. In order to win subscription, you have to make X consecutive correct weekly predictions. During the first week send out newsletters to N*2^X people, half of letters stating that the market will be up, the other half stating the opposite. Either of the predictions will be true. Divide the group that received the correct prediction to two and deliver again opposing predictions the next week. Repeat till you reach the desired N number of people.)<br />Some notes to be fair. 1) There are many, many interesting examples (a l Paulos: (more than 20 per chapter) * (5 chapters) = (more than 100 examples overall)). 2) Many of these numerous examples are Paulos' own (including the stock newsletter scam above, I believe). 3) At the time of initial print (1988) the examples evidently were not as well publicized as now (2003).<br />If you haven't heard any of the examples above and never read any Paulos publications, then the book will be of value to you, especially given Paulos' clean exposition and wit. On the other hand if you've either read some other book by Paulos or heard of any such examples then you might be better off reading his monthly column on ABCNews at [...]	2003-12-17
US	49679088	R2UAOPRA8U7NDY	0312421702	344894931	Complications: A Surgeon's Notes on an Imperfect Science	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Unassuming	In my opinion the primary reason behind the book's popularity lies in Gawande's unassuming attitude. What differentiates Gawande's writings from writings of other doctors and researchers in medicine is the fact that Gawande poses questions while others try to provide answers. This is not to say that proposing answers -- to the medical problems faced -- is bad in any sense. What I wish to highlight is the fact that, when it comes to relating to readers, recording the difficulties and agonies doctors confront (as human beings) offers arguably the best way to build rapport. Gawande's writing does just that.<br />In the various essays of the book you will find the mind of a sympathetic (in many surgery cases Gawande seems to make follow up visits to the patient's homes) surgeon, weighing all possible options before treatment, and conducting post-analysis for each and every case. His descriptions of surgeries are factual, hence graphical. This, together with his ever-questioning, ever-probing mind, make the passages almost read like a mystery, in the sense that readers are held in suspense in anticipation of a resolution. <br />I enjoyed the essays under part II (the book consists of three parts: fallibility, mystery, and uncertainty) the most, as this part was the most intellectually rewarding. There the author questions the understanding of symptoms as fundamental as pain to symptoms as obscure as nausea and blushing. As elusive as the source of such symptoms are, the questions the author poses take on philosophical form. Instead of coming up with definite, authoritative answers, the author enumerates different perspectives, offers his opinions, and invites readers to think along.	2003-11-30
US	49679088	RH5UVXQFC9SHL	039592720X	658159771	Interpreter of Maladies	Books	4	105	118	N	N	Defining moments	Structure-wise the book is a showcase of point of views, which makes one feel as if the book was intended as a study on writing styles. Stories are written in the first person voice (as a Indian girl, as a just married Indian man), in third person voice, and as an intrusive author (in \\"the treatment of Bibi Haldar\\"). Events mostly take place in the greater Boston area (which may explain the book's popularity in New England) and Bengal, India. The WSJ review on the back cover is misleading in that not all stories concern immigrants (two short stories concern Indians living in India). However each story has at least one Indian protagonist.<br />The stories concern snapshots of lives, defining moments of characters. By \\"defining moments\\" I do not mean anything grand. These are moments that occur in everyday life, events so banal that they seem negligible at first sight. Yet those moments impact the protagonists in the way that life becomes no longer the same for them. By confessing that their miscarried baby was a boy over a forced (the electricity went out) candle-light dinner, a deteriorating marriage is salvaged (in \\"a temporary matter\\"); a seven year old boy's compliment \\"you are sexy\\" induces her relationship with a married man to end (upon hearing it she suddenly realizes she is not unique -- in \\"sexy\\").<br />Lahiri is a meticulous writer. You will almost be able to smell her egg curries and feel her bright colored saris. But it is really her quiet, suggestive prose that makes one want more.	2003-11-20
US	49679088	R1U02SDJ9TEKJ2	1573229377	690752886	Anger: Wisdom for Cooling the Flames	Books	4	7	7	N	N	One of the better Buddhism/self-help books	This is my first Thich Nhat Hanh book. As such, I do not know for a fact whether he writes in English, but from the absence of credits to a translator, I assume the book was indeed originally written in English, unlike many Buddhism-oriented monographs by Eastern masters. The natural, prose-like flow of its presentation more than testifies to this matter.<br />The book largely consists of 1) anecdotes of how different people managed to salvage their family relationships via practicing, and of 2) small &quot;programs&quot; that help you understand and ultimately manage your anger. These programs, or methods, are easy to implement, and if you can think about them for a single moment, make a lot of sense. An example of such programs might be -- in this case targeted towards your spouse -- to write down a half to full page note of gratitude or happiness you felt earlier in your relationship. The author terms this note your personal &quot;heart sutra (the heart sutra is one of the most recited sutras in Buddhism),&quot; and suggests you pulling it out and reading whenever you become angry with him/her. Another might be to simply carry a pebble, or to that matter any object, in your pocket to remind yourself of your commitment or of dharma.<br />The underlying teaching, or principle, is non-dualism, a Buddhist construct. Anger, according to the author, is not something external to you. As such one should not strive to expel anger from oneself; rather, anger should be accepted, understood, and taken care of, as you would take care of an infant.<br />At times I felt the book repetitious, and overly naive (there is a passage that asserted that violence ultimately does only harm, thus NATO's bombing of Belgrade was not desirable in bringing about peace. In theory I would agree with the author's view, but for this particular case I think that the only fault NATO committed was in not intervening earlier). However the author's compassion, and the overall integrity of the book more than makes up for these qualities. The book in my opinion is among the better ones available in the Buddhism/self-help genre.	2003-11-13
US	49679088	RALLVEDYKOB4J	0679731725	247754060	The Remains of the Day	Books	4	2	2	N	N	A cruel tale	A butler (Mr. Stevens) close to retirement reflects his convictions and life while traveling the countrysides of England during a 6-day holiday granted by his new, American master. The official purpose for his journey is to seek out a particular candidate, a certain Miss Kenton, who had worked under him before, to fill an open maid position. His real mission, arguably, which he does not discuss overtly, was to see for himself how she was doing. Stevens refers to her as Miss Kenton in his mind yet addresses her as Mrs. Benn when he actually gets to see her.<br />What is it that makes life worth living? Stevens in his youth seeked perfection in his occupation -- for this he had sacrificed his best years and proximity from his father. Diginity, he says, differentiates great butlers from the merely good. With all earnestness he strived to become a butler with dignity, a truly great butler. With his best years and biggest accomplishments behind him, he sits down and thinks: Was it all that worthwhile?<br />What Stevens speaks of do not necessary coincide with reality (reality including the state of his heart). Not to say that he was trying to deceive. What he speaks of, in my opinion, was what he wanted to believe in (was his employer, Lord Darlington, really fault-free in his view?), or what he perceived as the right way to think (is it not honorable to place one's duty before everything else?). There is a subtle incongruity between reality and Stevens' representation of reality that is ultimately left to the reader to resolve. I think I have found my answers to this disparity in the very last pages of the book.	2003-11-11
US	49679088	R3NKFA6H3OKWWW	0679777547	582743995	The Club Dumas	Books	3	2	4	N	N	An average mystery	&quot;The flesh-and-bone Corso, having and ID, a known place of residence, and a physical presence, of which his aching bones were proof, was increasingly tempted to see himself as a real character in an imaginary world.&quot; This is the premise of this novel. The protagonist Lucas Corso, a cynical book detective, sets out to verify the authenticity of a script attributed to Dumas, and gets entangled in situations that mirror the progression of the Three Musketeers (the imaginary world). Corso travels to Madrid, Toledo, Lisbon, and Paris to achieve his goal. The story is told by two narrators, first by Boris Balkan, literary critic, Dumas specialist, whom Coroso addresses his questions to, and later on after Balkan exists the scene, by an anonymous narrator.<br />I more or less agree with other reviewers who posted negative reviews: I felt the character development weak and the ending lackluster. What the novel lacks the author makes up gloriously with scenes and quotations from the classics of Dumas, Melville, the battle of Waterloo, and many more. Thus if you are interested in literary analogies you might find the book worthwhile. However being a person who'd happily swap progression for a revealing ending in a mystery, I'd have to say my reading experience had been short from delightful.	2003-11-03
US	49679088	R2EIB8L42QZI1X	1593080298	273181706	Metamorphosis and Other Stories (Barnes & Noble Classics Series)	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Irreconcilable discrepancies	As the content of the book seems not published: this collection contains the stories \\"A Message from the Emperor,\\" \\"The Metamorphosis,\\" \\"The Judgment,\\" \\"The Stoker: a Fragment,\\" \\"In the Penal Colony,\\" \\"A Country Doctor,\\" \\"An Old Leaf,\\" \\"A Hunger Artist,\\" \\"Josephine the Singer, or the Mouse People,\\" in this sequence.<br />I found the book opening with \\"A Message from the Emperor\\" very befitting, as it seemed to me that this story, in fact just a single page, nicely condensed the tone of the entire collection. In my opinion the stories explore the common theme of irreconcilable discrepancies (among human beings). \\"A Message from the Emperor\\" in particular depicts a person, a \\"contemptible subject\\" of the Emperor, waiting for a message from the Emperor that will never arrive. He knows for certain that the message won't arrive; yet he still waits.<br />In the well-known Metamorphosis, the discrepancies take on a physical form -- the protagonist, Gregor Samsa, finds himself turned into a bug one morning. While Samsa attempts his best to convey what he thinks to his family, the members of family, understandably, are incapable of even conceiving that this bug, Samsa, may have any intellect. Communication between these two parties is broken beyond repair; the present discrepancies are irreconcilable.<br />Likewise in \\"In the Penal Colony,\\" and in \\"A Hunger Artist.\\" In the former a foreigner is made to judge whether it is right to ban a particular execution machine of the past. The last remaining advocate of the machine, an army officer, tries his best to highlight the merits of it. He goes through great pain explaining how each and every piece of the machine works with great affection. No, the foreigner wont be deterred. The foreigner is as foreign as one could be from the idea of cruel execution. The hunger artist's vocation is to fast. He fasts in public and receives compensation from the spectators. He takes great pride in what he does; he only stops fasting because theconvention prohibits him from going on. But his is a dying occupation. People gradually lose interest. How is it possible to convey to those ignorant people what noble a deed it is to fast?<br />Remember the time you felt deep despair for not being able to get through to someone you care for (when no matter what you say just won't mean the same thing to you as to the other person)? Albeit in varying contexts, it is this devastation that Kafka so masterfully depicts in these stories.	2003-10-30
US	49679088	RNE2YRM7YHCAL	0743453360	160221493	How to Practice: The Way to a Meaningful Life	Books	3	12	13	N	N	Not much different from other intros to Buddhism	Given the title of the book I wished to find practical advice. I did indeed find some, but they were not as detailed or as personal (Dalai Lama-specific) as I wanted them to be. <br />The book consists of six chapters. In the first his holiness describes what he considers steps to enlightenment, viz. via equipping oneself with sound morality, practicing meditation, and then cultivating wisdom. These three practices are explored independently in separate subsequent chapters, followed by a succinct chapter on Tantra, and a final chapter that summarizes what had already been written. The style of exposition takes form of annotations on fundamental Buddhism constructs. Conspicuously lacking were technical details on how to meditate, how to practice Tantra (for e.g. how to breathe, what is good posture).<br />What I enjoyed most were the brief anecdotes. Most of them had to do with how through observances over other practitioners his holiness gained insight. Other parts (the majority of the book) read much like any other introductory Buddhism text.	2003-10-25
US	49679088	R26T8K2AQRTTHZ	0156027321	843703088	Life of Pi	Books	3	2	6	N	N	A most unusual journey, but not much more	The majority of the book depicts a single strand of thought of a 16-year-old Indian boy name Pi, lover of animals and lover of religions, who seeks to survive on a lifeboat alongside a Bengal tiger on the Pacific Ocean. Pi's narrative is full of detailed information (on animal behaviorism and skills of survival), humor (Pi is ultimately optimistic in the sense that he is capable of laughing at himself under such hardship), graphical violence (depictions of slaughtering dorados, fly-fish, turtles, etc for food; a hyena devouring a zebra live), and most of all, warmth (he never loses his faith for his multiple gods; he builds up a companionship with the tiger, Richard Parker). The narrative is thus very much engaging. Yet the lack of substance beyond what is depicted holds the book back from being a truly great novel. What you read is pretty much all that you get.	2003-10-25
US	49679088	R10NDK4L9V0G87	0140296409	929204920	Disgrace: A Novel	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Depth in simplicity	The story, written in the third person voice, develops along the events David Lurie, 52, self-proclaimed disciple of nature poet William Wordsworth, encounters. If there is one word to characterize the events depicted, it could only be hardship -- hardships that arose from being expelled from the university he worked as a professor (for a fling with one of his students), from not being capable of controlling his sexual impulses, from getting vandalized and physically assaulted, from not being able to get through his loving daughter Lucy despite all his efforts, from having to succumb to the rules of life of the rural South Africa. All these allude to disgrace. <br />With simplicity and economy Coetzee evokes aggravation, sympathy, and elicits a deeper understanding of what it is to be human. His sentences do not span more than two lines most of the time, and he does not indulge in explaining neither the motives nor the psychology of his characters. Rather, the story is delivered matter-of-factly, as a sequence of descriptions of evolving events. The contextual depth one discovers upon reading is thus the more remarkable.	2003-10-18
US	49679088	R3LZC0BGHJ75VB	0060002093	122576315	Ignorance: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Chartering familiar territories	The way Kundera crafts his characters in his recent novellas (Ignorance, Identity, and Slowness) reminds me of John Berger's critique of the contemporary painter Francis Bacon. According to Berger, paintings of Bacon are based on his initial brush strokes. The form, texture, and color of the initial strokes form a motif, and from this motif Bacon constructs an entire painting. Likewise for Kundera with his characters. Initially I suspect there are Kundera's observations on human psychology, on how human beings react to various situations and ideas. Kundera builds on these observations (\\"brush strokes\\"). A few observations makes up a character. Draw analogies from the classics with few of such characters, and a novel is born.<br />The situation and idea Kundera explores in this novel are that of an emigre, and of nostalgia, memory. The classical analogy is drawn from the relationship between Odysseus and Penelope in Homer's Odyssey.<br />It is amazing how much we think we know of people by knowing no more than how they react to certain events, and this is precisely where Kundera's genius lies. In Ignorance, we are given almost no factual information -- for e.g. occupation, age, physical traits such as height, hair color, eye color, etc -- regarding the two main characters Josef and Irena, yet we get to think that we know them very well by listening to how they feel about being an emigre (from Czech to France), and how they felt about their respective deceased spouses. The keen, humorous, and at times ironic, observations Kundera makes of Josef's and Irena's psychology are, as was the case in his previous novels, no less than captivating.<br />My complaint of the book lies in its indistinguishablity from Kundera's previous work. There is nothing new in structure nor in content that would make you excited about this book should you be a Kundera follower. On the other hand, if this is your first Kundera, I think it worthwhile reading. Ignorance is as good as any of Kundera's recent novellas.	2003-10-13
US	49679088	RO9LY6X5VEH2K	0786884061	618059257	The Man Who Loved Only Numbers: The Story of Paul Erdos and the Search for Mathematical Truth	Books	3	42	46	N	N	Entertaining, but lacks crucial information	Paul Erdos' position in number theory of the 20th century is pretty much like Miles Davis' in jazz: in some way or another every important figure in number theory has worked with Erdos, much like every influential jazz musician collaborated with Davis at one point in their respective careers. This may explain the number theorists' obsession with calculating their \\"Erdos number\\" (a person is said to have Erdos number one if the person wrote a mathematical paper with Erdos; a person with Erdos number 2 is a person who wrote a paper with a person with Erdos number 1, and so on and so forth. For more information on Erdos number visit oakland.edu/~grossman/erdoshp.html). Erdos was a prolific mathematician. According to the statistics compiled in the site just mentioned, he was the one who authored the most papers in the entire history of mathematics, even surpassing Euler.<br />The book is a collection of anecdotes related to Erdos. I say \\"anecdotes\\" because the book does not follow the usual birth-till-death timeline approach for biographies. Each chapter roughly corresponds to a story surrounding important collaborators of Erdos for a certain type of mathematical problem, not necessarily ordered chronologically. Erdos appears in these anecdotes as a person who cared dearly for his mother (he did not have his own family, not to mentioned he that he died a virgin according to his own words), mathematicians of all sorts regardless of their nationalities, children; as a person who despised anything that confined anyone's freedom, including God, or to put it in his words, SF, the \\"Supreme Fascist\\"; as a person who did not even have the ability to operate the most basic things, like operating air conditioners or even slicing a grapefruit with the right side of a knife (according to this book Erdos confessed that the first time he applied butter to bread was when he was in his 20s -- before Erdos' mother took care of him, and henceforth his friends/collaborators did); as a person whose earthly interest was zero (he never had a house -- he lived off at friends/collaborators), who gave everything he earned to any charity organization and every person in need (his entire possession fit into two suitcases); as a person whose love towards mathematics none equaled (he traveled incessantly to give lectures and worked 18 hours daily till he died); as a person who nevertheless feared death.<br />The book's format may have been just right for describing Erdos, whose life perhaps had no other way of being described of other than through mathematical problems. However for 1) the lack of information re. Erdos' \\"real\\" accomplishments (omitted most likely for general accessibility), 2) the author's occasional deviation from Erdos (for e.g. an entire chapter devoted to Fermat's last theorem which almost has nothing to do with Erdos; retelling of the most \\"popular\\" paradoxes of mathematics) which I felt catering to commercialism, I do not feel that the book depicted Erdos' life the best. The book is at best an entertaining read of one of the most interesting and influential mathematicians of the past century.	2003-08-25
US	49679088	R16C2OAP27ZGC4	0142003018	698227269	What's So Great About America	Books	3	8	13	N	N	Simplistic praise of ideals of US, though not without merits	Reading \\"What's So Great About America\\" was like reading a Chomsky. To Chomsky US is an \\"evil empire,\\" and nothing US attempts to do is without evil. Likewise in this book, US is the ultimate good, and D'Souza constantly asserts that we should understand it as such. Writings of both authors are lucid, persuasive, inculcating, and there are more than little for us to learn from their arguments. However, perhaps needless to say, neither of them provides a complete, balanced view.<br />Consider the following segment, where D'Souza argues why US isn't to blame for the starvation of Iraqi children after the first gulf war: \\"...By refusing to trade with Iraq America is to blame that Iraqi children are hungry. To see this fallacy, consider an example. I am walking down the street, eating a sandwich. You approach me, give me an account of your troubles, and ask me to share my sandwich with you. For whatever reason, I decline to do so. Now my reasons for this refusal may be good ones of bad ones. But in either case I am not to blame for your plight. I didn't *cause* your hunger...\\" Such argument was not very convincing. Certainly it is one thing not to offer your own sandwich and another to strike an agreement (the UN resolution) with everyone you know not to offer sandwiches to the hungry. There were quite a few passages that relied on such simplistic arguments/metaphors. <br />Another such argument was regarding colonialism. There is no doubt, as D'Souza asserts, that colonialism had had helped construct social infrastructure in the colonized countries, though not intently. The question is whether the colonized countries could have developed without colonialism. As the examples of Japan and Thailand (a country with approx. annual $7,000 GNP (PPP) as of 2002, a country that had never fallen victim to colonialism) demonstrate, colonialism does not seem to be a prerequisite for social/economical modernization in my view. Yet D'Souza seems to think that colonialism had been adetrimental factor in \\"bringing millions of non white people into the orbit of Western freedom.\\" <br />The fundamental problem with the book lies in the author's identification of US with the ideals of US. I cannot agree more that the ideals of US represent the best among competing political systems, but there is always the problem of implementation. Should there be enough motivation to \\"fight for\\" US in case the highest statesmen deviate from the ideals is highly questionable, and this book does not address this problem. It could be argued that the intent of the book was to assert it worthwhile to fight for such ideals. However in my view one does not simply choose to fight for something without a consideration of all factors involved.<br />Also included in the book are observations on various cultural/political phenomenons. D'Souza's arguments were especially poignant in the matter of racism. An immigrant from India, D'Souza's position is particularly suited to comment on this touchy issue. Political correctness in my view has been a binding factor in political debates, and in this sense his arguments are very welcome.<br />The frequent mentioning of his own background and family gives D'Souza's writing a very personal tone. This, together with US' current confrontation with terrorism, may explain the reason behind D'Souza's recent popularity.	2003-08-19
US	49679088	RAS1GCN1GNT6W	0140281630	489174445	Heart of Darkness (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Psychological rather than political	Marlow, a British sailor at the turn of the century, recounts his search for a certain Mr. Kurtz, along a river in Congo, to an anonymous \\"I.\\" The book is a monologue told over a single evening. The emotions Marlow displays are awe (towards Kurtz), disdain (towards the misdeeds of the company Marlow works for and the misdeeds of the \\"natives\\"), and fear. The intensity of such emotions draws one to follow the monologue till the end. I grew interested in this novel due to the ubiquitous references to it in contemporary political literature. The book I found however to be of psychological nature more than anything else. Never once while reading was I convinced that ideology was the crux of the matter. To the contrary I felt as if imperialism/colonialism were used as articles to justify the existence of the puzzle that was Kurtz. Conrad may have intended Kurtz, in his bleakness and contradictions, to be an embodiment of such ideologies, as contemporary critics like to put it. Such arguments naturally lend themselves to the interpretation that this novel is a critique of imperialism. It may well be, if one can assume that Conrad understood the highly politicized term \\"imperialism\\" as we do now. I suspect that this novel is instead really a critique, or a report, of \\"the present,\\" the circumstance Conrad had experienced.	2003-08-15
US	49679088	R3PX8EVCAHZE86	0140172459	401209577	The Mind-Body Problem (Contemporary American Fiction)	Books	4	58	61	N	N	Philosophy, mathematics, and....life	On a hot summer day over a ramen lunch I've been talking with a friend about Barry Mazur's latest monograph, \\"Imagining Numbers (2002),\\" a non-fiction book about mathematical imagination. The talk naturally evolved to as of why there is so little fictional work that writes about what it is like to be doing mathematics. My friend referred me to this book, adding that, though not written by a mathematician, it depicts behaviors of characters working in the field quite nicely.<br />\\"The Mind-Body Problem\\" is in fact written by a philosopher, and really is not about mathematics. It is about an intelligent young lady, Renee Feuer, who marries a world-renown mathematician, Noam Himmel, out of her insecurity: \\"...In short I was floundering [at Princeton as a grad student], and thus quite prepared to follow the venerably old feminine tradition of being saved by marriage. And, given the nature of my distress, no one could better play the part of my rescuing hero than the great Noam Himmel. For the man had an extravagance of what I was so agonizingly feeling the lack of: objective proof of one's own intellectual merit.\\" Renee, born into an orthodox Jewish family in New Jersey, is self-acknowledging beautiful, and perhaps can be best characterized in her own words: \\"I had always thought of intelligence as power, the supreme power. Understanding is not the means of mastery, but the end itself (Spinoza)...I am only attracted to men who I believe to be more intelligent than I am. A detected mistake in logic considerably cools my desire. They can be shorter, they can be weaker, they can be poorer, they can be meaner, but they must be smarter. For the smart are the masters in my mattering region. And if you gain power over them, then through the transivity of power you too are powerful.\\"<br />Embedded throughout the novel were philosophical interpretations of mundane matters, reminiscent in style of Alain de Botton's bestseller \\"On Love (1995).\\" However Renee's descriptions didn'tfeel as slick or polished as the male protagonist of \\"On Love,\\" and I wasn't so impressed uptil her honeymoon with Noam, which occupied roughly half of the book. Clever indeed, but her observations I felt too naked. I became engaged when Renee started to bare out the hardships -- the logical tyranny of Noam -- she had to face. There her \\"naked\\" remarks made her pain, and subsequently the sweetness of her affair with a physicist so palpable that I started wondering whether Renee's was really a story about the author herself. The finale was equally touching, but I choose not to reveal for your reading pleasure. I will simply add that it is about the difficulty of assessing others' hearts (the \\"Other's Mind\\" problem in philosophy).<br />Back to the original question as of why there are so few fictional work by mathematicians. According to Noam, \\"A mathematician with his powers doesn't have any interest or time to write a book like this [Hardy's \\"A Mathematician's Apology\\"]!\\"	2003-08-08
US	49679088	RZ1GXY6C9KO5V	0385495323	440237161	The Code Book: The Science of Secrecy from Ancient Egypt to Quantum Cryptography	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Popular science at its best	I read this book two or so years back ago. Recently I had a chance to delve back into some chapters and decided to write down some notes. Back then the book made me feel as if I was watching a television documentary -- I was particularly reminded of the \\"Triumph of the Nerds\\" series produced by Robert Cringely during the mid 1990s. A second reading of the public key cryptography related chapters confirmed this impression. Why so? The rhythm of the sequences. Picture the following sequence of events. A narration consisting of a brief introduction to a central figure is given, followed by an interview with that figure. The interview captures some emotion re. the critical time of \\"discovery,\\" and invites some questions re. the nature of the problem the figure faced. The narrator steps in again and explains what the problem means and implicates. A momentary lapse at the apex of achievement. Enter the party that builds upon the results of the initial figure, another interview with that party, and so on.<br />I enjoyed the Triumph of the Nerds very much and also this book. Just as Cringely had, the author possesses a fine pedagogic instinct for technical matters, and definitely understands how to \\"herd\\" the crowd. He has made interesting a topic that may have been too technical for lay readers. I was so enthralled by this book at my time of reading that upon finishing it I immediately went out to purchase his other book, \\"Fermat's Last Theorem\\" (Singh's formula didn't quite work there, perhaps because there weren't enough contemporary parties to throw interviews at -- thus losing the dynamism present in this book -- but that's a different story).<br />This much said, a word of caution. This is after all a pop science book, light reading. It is difficult to imagine how a chapter about public key cryptography can be written without mentioning certificate authorities or hashing, but here is one.<br />Sit back, relax, and enjoy. This may very well be the pop science book of the decade.he decade.	2003-07-31
US	49679088	R2J2D8VKZ6CBYN	1559706775	592088791	Trail of Feathers: In Search of the Birdmen of Peru	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A fascinating journey to Peru	The author has a definite goal in this book: to find truth behind the Peruvian (to be specific, Incan) birdmen, those who in legend flew over the South American jungles, whom are depicted in abundance in existing Incan textile. Previously I held no particular interest in Incan culture. I picked up the book at a bookstore simply because I had enjoyed enormously Shah's sense of humor in his previous book, \\"Sorcerer's Apprentice.\\" I was in no sense disappointed.<br />Shah travels on foot/lamas through Machu Picchu, Lake Titicaca, Nazca (where the \\"Nazca Lines,\\" or geoglyphs, are located), Lima, Iquitos, and on boat along the Amazon and Corrientes rivers. A lot of research regarding flight history, Incan history, natural history, and local tribes were put into the monograph, evidenced by frequent remarks of classics within the passages and also by the bibliography at the end of the book. Shah's depiction of what he observed is lively, humorous, and most of all, engaging -- and precisely because it was engaging, I was kept in suspense over what the \\"final truth\\" of the birdmen might be.<br />The ending was compelling, but can be controversial. Instead of plainly stating facts as in usual travel logs, Shah takes a literary route and leaves the readers at the very climax of his journey. By this I mean the author not recording his way back, nor attempting to explain what he had discovered. I really liked the way it is as it left much space for me to imagine (besides, what could the author possibly contribute to a field -- the theory behind the origins of the Nazca Lines -- where the norm is speculation?). <br />If you are open to such literary deviations, this book is a great read, and I recommend it wholeheartedly.	2003-07-29
US	49679088	R1D6U10219D222	060980958X	1366740	A Fortune-Teller Told Me: Earthbound Travels in the Far East	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Interesting but not compelling	The author literally walks us through his encounters with shamans, fortune-tellers, and sorcerers of the Asian continent. His pace is leisurely, and he makes plenty reflections in order to make out what he observes. Perhaps a bit too many, as by the end it feels repetitious. Later in the book the characters the author encounters do not particularly stand out from the ones he met earlier, nor does the author's insight deepen alongside his route. The book is, as with the majority of travel literature, of parallel structure, and its whole does not exceed the sum of its parts (chapters). I would have enjoyed the book better had the author included a heavier dose of social context, which the author should have had at his disposal given his occupation.<br />Overall the book is an enjoyable read, if you don't expect to learn too much from it.	2003-07-14
US	49679088	RNE8SW3BPD9SR	0375726276	872371639	Warrior Politics: Why Leadership Demands a Pagan Ethos	Books	3	9	10	N	N	Not the best book by Kaplan	Initially there is a question, most often regarding the exact &quot;position&quot; of a country/civilization in the broad stream of history, and then there are landscapes. Traveling through these landscapes in turn give rise to a renewed set of questions, followed by reflections, analyses, and theory, all to comprehend what are observed. This is the path taken in the majority of Kaplan's publications to date. In Warrior Politics Kaplan takes the reverse route: theories (to be precise, classics such as Machiavelli and Sun Tzu) precede Kaplan's ever-keen observations, which serve to furnish the theories.<br />As Kaplan acknowledges in the book's preface, this route is not where he most excels. The chapters, albeit strung together with the common theme of &quot;pragmatism&quot; (hence the subtitle &quot;Why Leadership Requires a Pagan Ethos&quot;), are more or less independent. The persuasive power, which his other publications exude so convincingly, is not to be found in this monograph. It is his observations in the field, firmly rooted on earth, that makes Kaplan's writings compelling, and this book does not make the most of such observations. I suspect that Kaplan required a period to recharge himself with literature in between journeys, and that the book is the result of such period.<br />I enjoyed chapter 9, titled &quot;The World of Achilles: Ancient Soldiers, Modern Warriors&quot; the most, because it was there where Kaplan's voice emerged most unequivocally. There I found statements that I at first doubted, but later on admitted while observing the outcomes of the Iraq war (March 2003). Some of such statements were that 1) going to war would be less of a democratic decision, that 2) assassinations for achieving military objectives would become prevalent, and that 3) the media is becoming a world power in its own right. Those who are interested in this chapter in particular, please refer to The National Interest magazine's 2001/02 winter edition, which is available online for free at nationalinterest.org.<br />For interested Kaplan readers, I suggest picking up &quot;The Ends of the Earth&quot; or &quot;Eastward to Tartary&quot; instead. Kaplan's pragmatic assertions that run through Warrior Politics come to life much more vividly there with context.	2003-07-14
US	49679088	R3G3RHGISKRFOP	0062502182	472619578	The Alchemist: A Fable About Following Your Dream	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Little room for imagination	A shepherd boy named Santiago travels from his homeland Andalusia to the Pyramids of Giza to achieve his dreams (or, as the author puts it, his &quot;Personal Legend&quot;). Along the way he faces difficulties, overcomes them, and acquires the ability to speak the &quot;Language of the World&quot; (the ability to communicate with sentient beings of the world). As a modern day fable, the book possesses neither the compendious quality of R. Bach's &quot;Jonathan Livingston Seagull&quot; nor the warmth and imagination of Saint-Exupery's &quot;The Little Prince.&quot; The indicative mood employed by the author leaves readers with almost no space for imagination. It comes to me as a surprise that this book has been such a hit. Perhaps we are all ears when it comes to fables.	2003-06-27
US	49679088	R3J6M44Y42FZVH	0060516054	433958284	What Went Wrong?: The Clash Between Islam and Modernity in the Middle East	Books	5	10	18	N	N	A very accessible introduction to the Muslim world	I found the book to be a very readable history of the Middle East. It was readable because 1) background knowledge of Islam, other than a general interest to current affairs, is not required, 2) there aren't many cross-references (that force one to flip back and forth), and most importantly, 3) explanations are clear-cut and very much self-contained. These are remarkable for a history text, and as such I consider the book particularly suitable for casual readers like myself.<br />The book covers wide spans chronologically, geographically, and conceptually. It starts out with major wars fought, then an analysis of economical/political structures, and finally illuminates socio-cultural differences. I particularly enjoyed the chapter that discussed the concept of time and space of Islam. Below are some passages I found informative/revealing.<br />\\"For traditional Muslims, the converse of tyranny was not liberty but justice.\\"<br />\\"In the West, one makes money in the market, and uses it to buy or influence power. In the East, one seizes power, and uses it to make money. Morally there is no difference between the two, but their impact on the economy and on the polity is different.\\"<br />\\"For men to wear Western clothes, it would seem, is modernization; for women to wear them is Westernization, to be welcomed or punished accordingly.\\"<br />\\"Islam recognizes no ordination, no sacraments, no priestly mediation between the believer and God. The so-called clergyman is perceived as a teacher, a guide, a scholar in theology and law, but not as a priest.\\"<br />\\"One may even say that there is no orthodoxy and heresy, if one understands these terms in the Christian sense, as correct or incorrect belief defined as such by duly constituted religious authority...Where there are differences, they are between the mainstream and the fringes, between orthopraxy and deviation. Even the major division within Islam, between the Sunnis and the Shia, arose over an historical conflict about the political leadership of the community, not over any question of doctrine.\\"<br />\\"The office of ayatollah is a creation of the nineteenth century; the role of Khomeini and of his successor as \\"supreme jurist\\" an innovation of the twentieth.\\"<br />\\"Polyphony, in whatever form, requires exact synchronization. The ability to synchronize, to match times exactly, and for this purpose to measure times exactly, is an essential feature of modernity and therefore a requirement of modernization.\\"cal leadership of the community, not over any question of doctrine.\\"<BR>\\"The office of ayatollah is a creation of the nineteenth century; the role of Khomeini and of his successor as \\"supreme jurist\\" an innovation of the twentieth.\\"<BR>\\"Polyphony, in whatever form, requires exact synchronization. The ability to synchronize, to match times exactly, and for this purpose to measure times exactly, is an essential feature of modernity and therefore a requirement of modernization.\\"	2003-06-24
US	49679088	R1ECOPA8DSC8PX	0375724370	924994086	Anil's Ghost: A Novel	Books	2	5	7	N	N	Beautiful in parts, dissonant as whole	Having missed out on \\"The English Patient\\" I wanted to catch up on Ondaatje with this book. I was disappointed, and below is why. The main characters, Anil (a forensic researcher educated in the west and dispatched to Sri Lanka by a human rights organization to investigate disappearances of Sri Lankans), Sarath (a native Sri Lankan archeologist assigned to work with Anil), and Gamini (brother of Sarath who is an MD), in my view, all failed to develop into concrete characters. Don't get me wrong, I found Ondaatje's prose beautiful. There were beautiful passages describing past (as opposed to the ongoing storyline, which was to identify the identity of a certain corpse) experiences of each of the characters. The problem I had was connecting any one past experience to another of the same character. It gave me the sense that the characters were manufactured, as the union of experiences that have no intersection. This was most pronounced in Anil -- I never understood her drive to uncover the identity of the corpse. In the same vein I found the novel's reference to the Sri Lankan civil war also unsatisfactory. Other than the landscape the author portrayed, there were no particular, intrinsic reason linking why the background of the novel should be Sri Lanka at all. Throughout the novel the war remained \\"anonymous,\\" with no specific characteristics of its own, serving as a backdrop that justified the ongoing violence.	2003-06-23
US	49679088	RM8H3TPFEO9IG	0486272745	604725626	The Prince (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A world without an absolute	What makes The Prince relevant even after 500 years in my view is the flexibility of Machiavelli's view. It is not Machiavelli's theory that reality is molded into; to him, the given are the circumstances, and to those he proposes \\"remedies.\\" As can be imagined, such approach entails an enumeration of possible options for the given situations, so thus structured is his treatise.<br />The remedy Machiavelli chooses for each given situation is relative to the set of options, and, 1) is independent of moral values (good/evil), 2) is based on the utility/effectiveness of it, and, 3) (as perhaps can be deduced by the previous two qualities) is the _logical_ choice based on common sense. The reader is required to be well versed in neither theory nor classics to appreciate Machiavelli's arguments, though being knowledgeable in the latter would definitely help understanding the dynamics of the examples he writes of.<br />I disagree with people who regard Machiavelli's arguments of being unethical. In other words I refute the prevalent meaning of the word \\"Machiavellian\\". I suspect, though without proof, that the word had been coined in a time when stricter moral codes (Christianity) were intact, and have been carried over to this age as convention. I do acknowledge that some of his arguments may sound politically incorrect even in our days, nevertheless think that human beings, rulers if not everyone, have been acting on the basis of his principles from time immemorial.	2003-06-19
US	49679088	RPN6Y1H76BIID	0345391802	458212829	The Hitchhiker's Guide to the Galaxy	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Mostly coherent incoherencies	At any given point during reading, I've been either 1) wondering how the author would clear-up the complicated situation he had created in the preceding chapter, or 2) laughing out loud on some seemingly logical, mostly innocuous, but totally nonsense sentences. Dull moments were rare, and fickle as human brains are, even in those moments I found myself cooking up some nonsensical variation on Adams' play-of-words. My only regret is re. the depressed robot Marvin. Though it was initially delightful to imagine a sentient, melancholy machine, in my view Marvin's level of conversation never reached those of the other main characters (Arthur, Ford, Zaphod, Trillian). Marvin kept on wearing the same depressed mold over and over and remained annoying, whereas the other characters remained maddeningly annoying!	2003-06-17
US	49679088	R3LTDRF9GUUNQW	0465054803	818578640	A Mathematician Plays The Stock Market	Books	5	12	15	N	N	For each concept a tale	Each chapter of this book corresponds to a concept in investment theory (for e.g. the efficient market hypothesis, options, risk, volatility -- see the table of contents). The concepts covered easily encompass those dealt in introductory college-level investment theory text books (for e.g. Bodie, Zane, and Marcus' &quot;Essentials of Investments&quot;) and a bit more (for e.g. chaos theory applied to finance). As can be deduced by inspecting the length of the book (a mere 224 pages), the author's exposition is succinct and exacting. This is not to say in any sense the book is demanding or dry; quite to the contrary it is leisurely and enjoyable. Every investment concept is furnished with a story, a logical puzzle, and/or a paradox. With the ability to perform rudimentary arithmetic you will be able to understand the underlying concepts and question the &quot;conventional wisdoms&quot; regarding them. Paulos' wit, as with all his previous publications, shines throughout the book.<br />(Side note. Other things I _personally_ enjoyed about the book: 1) forward references -- I like books that direct readers to jump to a certain paragraph or section should the reader not be interested in certain parts. Inclusion of such directions not only presents convenience, but also implies that the author really thought out what he/she'd write. 2) Subject index -- needless to say it is easier to return to the part you wish to read again!)	2003-06-13
US	49679088	R16P357TCJPHJK	0375758259	389338120	When Genius Failed: The Rise and Fall of Long-Term Capital Management	Books	3	10	12	N	N	Read only if interested in LTCM...	...If you haven't heard of LTCM, then the book might not be worth it.<br />The book is about the spectacular rise (1994) and fall (1998) of the trading firm LTCM. You will find in this book: 1) what sort of trades LTCM made (mostly fixed-income arbitrage, less foreign exchange, much less plain stocks), 2) yearly (and at times daily, when LTCM was going bankrupt) balance of LTCM's accounting books, 3) (somewhat vaguely) counterparties involved in LTCM trades, 4) personnel in LTCM who made the trades; their personalities, 5) heads of Wall Street firms between 1994-1998. If any of the above interests you, you will find the book worthwhile, not only because the author does a fairly good job in chronicling the events, but also because there are not many sources available that cover the LTCM debacle. (I personally find it strange that such a talked about firm in the 1990s has such little &quot;publicity.&quot;) On the other hand, contrary to the opinions of some reviewers here seem to hold, I would not go so far as to draw investment lessons from the book. To me this is history, dry as it should be.	2003-06-11
US	49679088	R209YEMF9QSTRT	1559706260	146577595	Sorcerer's Apprentice	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outlandish facts + twisted humor = splendid entertainment	Do baby-renters (people who make a living out of lending out babies to beggars), skeleton-dealers (people who export unclaimed dead bodies to the west for studies in anatomy), ghamelawallas (people who collect gold from city dust), multi-generation executioners (people who inherited their job as an executioner from their parents), acid-drinkers, etc, etc sound intriguing to you? Do you enjoy self-deprecating, and at times self-abusive humor? If (and only if) so this is the book for you. Shah does a splendid job in exploring and writing about his arcane experiences all across India. This was the most entertaining book I read in years.	2003-06-03
US	49679088	R1X50MI830KYTD	0871401622	166109382	The Conquest of Happiness	Books	5	15	16	N	N	The joy of reading the obvious	The monograph, written by Russell at the age of 58 (he lived to 98), is first and foremost a self-help book. As Russell clearly states in the preface, the book contains \\"no profound philosophy or deep erudition,\\" and was \\"aimed only at putting together some remarks which are inspired by what I [Russell] hope is common sense.\\" And how wonderful those remarks were.<br />As with any self-help book, there aren't that many _new_ facts to learn within. Rather there is a certain view of the world the authors offer, and it is their congeniality and their own conviction in their view that provide readers with consolation, and motivation to try out such view. Russell's view is that the world is abundant with joy to be explored and discovered. The programs he suggests for conquering happiness, most notably, were 1) to face whatever fear you behold with sincerity and conviction that they are possible to overcome (Russell regards even one's unconscious changeable with sufficient vigor and intensity), 2) enjoy to its fullest extent what life has to offer no matter how trivial the source of enjoyment are perceived by others insofar as the act of pursuing enjoyment do not harm others (example: Russell's Gardner was fascinated in hunting rabbits!), and 3) to realize that whatever happens to oneself is not all that important after all (Russell's such laissez faire-ish view is exemplified by his words: \\"in the broad stream of history nothing is of paramount importance...\\"). With a mathematician's rigor Russell in each chapter scoped out what the problem he wished to take on, and laid out his solutions, logically deduced from common sense. I was convinced.<br />However it was not so much the solutions Russell provided that made me enjoy this book. What I enjoyed most was the chance to peek into a mind that appeared to me to be naive and held no pretense: \\"I shall therefore assume that the reader would rather be happy than unhappy. Whether I can help him to realize this wish, I do not know; but at any rate the attempt can do no harm.\\" To see people attempting to overcome difficulties in their utmost sincerity, in my view, provides one with the ultimate consolation.	2003-06-03
US	49679088	R30L934N4VPB4T	0374174695	340533675	Imagining Numbers: (particularly the square root of minus fifteen)	Books	3	7	10	N	N	Could have been better	The book is ultimately about how to understand/visualize imaginary numbers and its operations (addition/multiplication). (By visualize I mean visualizing these numbers, operations in the \\"complex plane\\".) In my view the book could have been better had Mazur included a section or two on his personal view of what \\"mathematical imagination\\" consists of. Such inclusion wouldn't have done any harm to the over all pedagogic tone of the book, and would have added value for the mathematics community as well, especially given the fact that Mazur -- recipient of the Steele/Veblen/Cole prizes -- would have so much to offer in this regard. Without such inclusion the book is still beautiful and enjoyable, but for readers already acquainted with the notion of the complex plane, it has not much to offer other than 1) the various connotations of [literary] imagination, and 2) the historical development of notions of solutions to algebraic equations.	2003-05-29
US	49679088	R3OUQFBFL9P0JK	0385315147	373503319	Smilla's Sense of Snow	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A woman you'd love to hate	The novel is written in a first-person voice, a narrative of a 37 year-old, half-Danish and half-Inuit single female named Smilla. Smilla is determined (she follows the murderers of a little boy she was fond of to the outskirts of the arctic), cynical (nothing impresses her other than dry, cold factoids such as the formations of ice), science-oriented (she authored scientific papers on the growth rate of stalactite; she reads Euclid's Elements to the little boy), has a thing against authority (she had been expelled from every organization she got admitted to), and downright wicked (she will cut open a wound in you without hesitation once she is determined that you are her enemy). But it is really her keen, frank observations that one gets attracted to. Her eyes and tongue would slice and dice everything she encounters and would not spare even herself. Through her narratives one is able to construct an all too humane and ultimately convincing human being. This is what keeps one reading, wanting for more. The plot, on the other hand, disguised as a mystery, serves nothing more than a glue to group together Smilla's manifold observations. Do not expect much from the plot.	2003-05-27
US	49679088	RO4Y7KP69WEQD	0671657860	882252700	Many Lives, Many Masters: The True Story of a Prominent Psychiatrist, His Young Patient, and the Past-Life Therapy That Changed Both Their Lives	Books	2	12	19	N	N	Where are the questions?	A psychiatrist encounters a patient who remembers her past lives under hypnosis. The patient recalls not only the lives she lived but also the in between states, in which she is able to communicate with, and at times acts as a medium of, some  &quot;master spirits.&quot; This is, perhaps needless to say, a fascinating phenomenon, and thus a great material to explore, investigate, and write about. The psychiatrist (who is also the author of the book) indeed explored and wrote, but in my view never really performed satisfactory investigations. The book left me with many questions directed towards the author, for e.g.: Why doesn't the author try to prove/justify the existence of the master spirits (the author is a medical doctor recording a treatment after all)? If the author assumes -- which he does so readily -- the master spirits exist, why doesn't he try to explain them (do us readers have to accept things without evidence) in one way or another? What does the author regard as the &quot;essence&quot; of transmigration -- is it a spirit? If so what is a spirit? etc, etc. If such details were left out deliberately, it was a bad choice. The book, mostly consisting of dialogues between the doctor and the patient, reads like a novel without a plot than a treatment record. I wonder whether that was intended too.	2003-05-21
US	49679088	R1SV6QLQ8Z6VGX	037541293X	104188910	The Gate	Books	2	7	15	N	N	Le Carre's introduction remains the best part of the book	In brief, I would not recommend this book. The map of Cambodia, the chronology of events between 1953 and 1998, and the prologue by the author, all within the first part of the book alluded me to think that this was a book rich with historical context. I could find none in the book. No, I stand corrected, there were historical facts: the chain of events the author experienced first hand, but no more.<br />If you are looking for what the Khmer Rouge was, who its leaders were, what the leaders thought, or even who Douch - whom the editorial reviews trys to make us believe to be the second protagonist of the book - is, look elsewhere. Bizot simply goes on and on with one minute detail after another, never violating the direction of time, never even once shifting perspectives. Granted, the author does a very good job in describing his encounters with various people, the agonies he felt, etc, but what should we make of these descriptions when devoid of context? Most likely I will forget, and think it plausible that the majority of other readers will do the same.<br />Le Carre's introduction, as other reviewers of this book do not fail to notice, is nothing short of brilliant, and served as one motivation for me to purchase this book. Unfortunately the introduction remained the best part of the book.	2003-05-12
US	49679088	R2100IK6HMHHOI	087011851X	498520474	The Unfettered Mind: Writings of the Zen Master to the Sword Master (The Way of the Warrior Series)	Books	2	32	70	N	N	Neither zen nor sword	I got interested in the book because of its references to swordsmanship and Buddhism, two seemingly incompatible subjects. I knew for a fact that the Japanese used Buddhism as a vehicle for training the warrior class, and learning that the book consisted of letters from a Zen monk to a swordsman, expected the book to contain reasons why Buddhism and swordsmanship were compatible.<br />I found no satisfactory answers. Instead (within the first and second letters) was Soho's (the Zen monk) teaching to swordsmen to fulfill the master/servant contract. &quot;...Therefore it is better not to inquire who this lord or that might be, but to simply think 'the lord,' and consider right-mindedness towards him without mentioning his name.&quot; I found Soho's such Confucianism-oriented(!) teachings puzzling.<br />For those of you whom are approaching this from the spiritual (Buddhism) side like myself, there are parts of the book that touches the five skandhas (things of temporal existence), how consciousness arises, and the importance of not fixating one's mind in any one thing (this became the Sino-Japanese title of the book), but there are much elaborate and better Buddhism references available. For those of you want to approaching from the business side, I suppose you may gain some insight about the Japanese way of viewing the world, but there are too few maxims in this book that you could ponder over. This is no Sun Tzu.<br />There might be misunderstandings on my part, but to me the importance of the book seems historical.	2003-05-11
US	49679088	R2DH4ZUOOLKAQS	0743230493	5817625	Supreme Command: Soldiers, Statesmen, and Leadership in Wartime	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A good read, left or right	I picked up a copy this book after reading an New York Times story, by Kakutani, about William Kristol's comment that this book was \\"the single volume he most wanted Mr. Bush to read\\" (this comment is also on the back side of the hard cover version). I didn't expect much from the book as my focus was on learning about the \\"right-wing\\" tendencies of the Bush administration. The book turned out to be a pleasant surprise.<BR> <BR>Supreme Command is packed with historical anecdotes of predicaments the four wartime leaders faced, and how the leaders overcame such predicaments. (I won't go into details to this since there are many other well-written reviews regarding what the book is about.) The book is worth the time for the amount of information it contains alone. I liked the way Cohen organized the abundance of information to support his arguments, and especially how he titled his chapters and sections -- these titles were so relevantly named that it was virtually impossible to lose track of what the author wanted to convey at any given point.<br />The foregoing is not to say that the book was without \\"flaws.\\" There were points at which I thought the examples Cohen provided were irrelevant, especially in chapter 6 where he discusses about leadership without genius. Take Cohen's assessment of the Gulf war for example:<br />\\"The civilian leadership appears, in some measure, not to have thought through the longer-term consequences of the war or the follow-through that even a smashing victory requires. They had come to accept, by default, the military's definition of victory as a battlefield outcome, in which the relationship with political objectives was defined as narrowly as possible...The tale of the Gulf war and its aftermath is not one of usurpation of strategic control by the military but rather, in large part, one of abdication of authority by the civilian leadership.\\"<br />Accepting the military's definition of victory, or to that matter anyone's definition of victory, cannot be correct nor incorrect in itself. It depends on what the definition is and what it portends. What is supposed to be an example of why a stronger control of civilians over the military is required turns out to be a vindication of a specific policy (in this case taking absolute control of Iraq after the Gulf war). One cannot say that stronger civilian control is required because the civilians did not adopt a certain view the author wished them to. The above is a logical fallacy of a sort in my view.<br />However such points are minor, and there are more than plenty things to learn from the book. As another reviewer wrote: \\"...But even those who disagree with him will come away informed by the argument.\\"	2003-05-10
US	49679088	RC1YTQHNB00I1	0810914301	141350243	Earth from Above: 365 Days	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Strikingly original images	There is something in the images that me stare at the photos time and again. I had this book for over a year now but I am yet to get tired of these images. This alone, in my view, is a remarkable fact. How many picture books did you not get tired of for over a year? Assuming that the photographer couldn't have flown over all the locations by chance, I think it safe to say that it took a plentitude of imagination to complete this project. How would one know how the resulting photos would look like before seeing them himself? Perception of beauty changes with many things, and availability of its images is no small factor. Once the images and style contained in this book are copied over by others the images might lose their charm. It will be a difficult effort to match, however. <br />If interested, I suggest you to sample some of the images at the photographer's home page: yannarthusbertrand.com.	2003-05-10
US	49679088	R3V44X09N0H804	0679761047	987818425	Snow Country	Books	4	7	8	N	N	Snapshots from the snow country	There are no revelations, no unwindings, no developments present in this book. Other than the change of season marked by two visits of the male protagonist Shimamura to the snow country, there isn't even a sense of time. Instead offered is a collection of beautiful, serene, _static_ images. Alongside the somewhat monotone dialogues between Shimamura and Komako, images of the Japanese countryside are \\"displayed\\" rather than \\"described.\\"<br /><br />Characters in this novel are, so to say, lost (the Japanese have a long tradition of writing about lost characters, Murakami Haruki being the one of the latest of such authors). Komako, being a geisha and understanding that Shimamura is already married, cannot do anything. Shimamura, even after realizing he is in love with Komako, doesn't do anything. The beauty of their relationship lies in their inaction, indulgence, and pensiveness. These attributes were frozen into colorful yet subtle moments. I enjoyed such images.	2003-05-07
US	49679088	R213XEESN0QQ2K	037541293X	104188910	The Gate	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Read only if interested in a personal narrative	There isn't much historical perspective present in the book. I wanted to learn more about the Khmer Rouge, but instead learned about the author's personal experience. The book reads much like a novel, and very few references to the history of Khmer Rouge are given.	2003-04-14
US	49679088	R3F6WVCN882MJP	0393317552	733405472	Guns, Germs, and Steel: The Fates of Human Societies	Books	5	12	15	N	N	exceptional depth and scope	The book is the result of an attempt to explain why some civilizations (civilization is definitely not the correct word to use here. I am using it for lack of a better term. \\"A region occupied by a homogeneous ethnic group\\" is what I believe the author is basing his arguments on) came to evolve faster than others. The book consists of three parts; the first in posing the question, the second in developing theories as of why differences in speed of advancements in different civilizations occur, and lastly in applying the author's theories to different continents.<br />The author attributes differences in available natural resources at the time of exploitation as reasons of disparities in speed of development. A typical argument of his would evolve as such (excerpt from chap. 9): \\"How can we explain the concentration of the Ancient Fourteen [domesticated animals] in Eurasia? ... One reason is simple. Eurasia has the largest number of big terrestrial wild animal species, whether or not ancestral to a domesticated species. Table x.x shows that Eurasia has the most candidates ... [Table x.x contains 1) candidates and 2) percentage of candidates actually domesticated] ... But why were Eurasia's horses domesticated but not Africa's Zebras? ... Efforts at domestication went as far as hitching Zebras to carts: they were tried out as draft animals in 19C Africa, and the eccentric Lord Walter Rothschild drove through the streets of London in a carriage by zebras. Alas, zebras become impossible dangerous as they grow older. Zebras have the unpleasant habit of biting a person and not letting go. They thereby injure even more American zookeepers each year than do tigers! ...\\"<br />Diamond evidently adopts a divide-and-conquer strategy in his arguments. A quick, immediately palpable reason succeeds the initial question he poses, followed by an abundance of physiological and/or physical evidence. From the evidence yet another set of questions arise, which are in turn answered withmore ample evidence, often times supplemented with historical annectdotes.<br />Diamond's evolutionary/physiological/physical approach is not without precedents. The historian Ferdiand Braudel, as well as biologist Cavalli-Sforza for example used similiar arguments in their numerous publications. However none of their publications are as thorough in evidence and at the same time as accessible as this book. It was an enjoyable, and in a sense, relaxing read.<br />With what little knowledge I have, I gather that evolutionary theories are in (for every social phoenomenon there seems to be an associated evolutionary theoretic explanation nowadays). There will be other ways in the future to explain the very same question Diamond attempted to tackle, but till then there will be more than enough time for Diamond's \\"historical science\\" (as he puts it) to evolve.	2002-11-12
