US	49694646	RCMD811OM33UU	0684801469	11530247	A Farewell To Arms	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Love and War during World War I - - - Hemingway style...	Farewell to Arms is a love story set amist the horrors and pointlessness of World War I.  This book has many autobiographical elements and it shows at Hemingway is really writing from the heart here.<br /><br />Personally I feel this is an \\"atmosphere\\" book which pretty much means you either \\"get it\\" or you don't.  It probably depends on how much you can relate to the two main characters and their situation.  They find each other and create something beautiful amongst the horror all around them.  There isn't much in the way of plotting so you have to appreciate the relationship aspect of the story.  The writing is classic Hemingway and he puts you right into the story with the best of them.<br /><br />This book is more than just a love story and like most Hemingway it touches upon various themes of man, love and futility.  This book isn't as complete as For Whom The Bell Tolls but it's one his best nonetheless.  It's easy reading and the story is linear and straightforward.  It's appropriate for 16 year olds and up and you don't have to have read many classics to \\"get it\\".<br /><br />Bottom Line:  Those looking to explore Hemingway might want to start with this book as it is a good intro into this amazing author.  Also this book shouldn't be read by anyone clinically depressed as it can be extremely sad at times.	2005-10-12
US	49694646	R32HSCDGNZOU53	0156004801	475362106	All the King's Men	Books	5	5	5	N	Y	The best book of the 20th century....	This is the only book in my life I've read four times and each time is an experience that brings new insights and relevations.  I first read this book in high school and I come back to every three years so becuase its just that good.  Warren won the Pullitzer Prize in 1946 for this and I argue its the classic of the century and possibly the best American novel ever writte.  Reading this book is like drinking a fine wine...it needs to be sniffed, sipped and swirled to appreciated although I promise you won't want to spit this out! <br /> <br />Like all amazing pieces of work, this book has many different aspects to it.  The story revolves around a southern Governor and his right hand man who narrates the story.  The first time I read the book, I knew nothing about the plot or the historical undercurrents and I think this is the best way to read as it the best way absorb the beautiful prose.  Warren turns simple situations like the sound of rain beating down on an automobile into eloquent rythmical expressions that fuse you onto the page.  The book is also a coming of age story and Warren is able to capture and relate to the human psyche so well that I've thought I'm reading excerpts from my own life.  The relationships Jack Burden has with his boss, his father, his best friend, and his best friend's sister will surely ring true with many a reader.  Warren does an amazing job developing these relationships in realistic and heartbreaking ways.  I love how each chapter stands alone as it's own mini story. <br /> <br />There is so much to be said about this book and there is reason why so many other viewers give this book such high praise.  For novice readers this won't be an easy read as it exremely involving and some of the sub-plots are hard to follow.  I think more experienced readers won't be able to put it down.  For people looking to try some classic literature, this is a fantastic place to start.  Enganging enough for the advanced high school student, this wouldbe an excellent present for the teenager leaving home for college beacuse of the thematic relevancy. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  For me it is the standard all other classics are measured against.	2005-10-11
US	49694646	R3MOGZ0KGT7TQ4	0825611687	305023058	The Complete Rock Guitar Player Omnibus Edition (The Complete Rock Guitar Player Series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Adequate as  long as you know its faults....(3.5 stars)	After having played piano for 6 years, I decided it was time to learn guitar as well.  Lessons are always the best way to go but sometime you need books to supplement your growth and I've probably looked at about 20-30 various books for learning music. <br /> <br />This book is ok for what it tries to do but the reader should go into knowing its faults.  First off, the book is strictly for beginners so make no mistake about that.  This book is primarily inteded to teach the major chords and the simplest of strumming patterns.  If you are looking for something to see if you might be interested in playing guitar then this book might be perfect for you.  After an hour you will you be able to play RUDEMENTRY versions of Miss You (Rolling Stones) and Shout (Tears For Fears) and you will know Em, Am7, Cmaj7 and A chords.  The book progresses along those lines slowly introducing more chords and strumming patterns.  Eventually you will work through power chords, barre chords (major and minor) and some very basic riffs. <br />For what it is trying to do, the book works and you get more intsruction then most books for its price as is it 4 books combined into one.  Also the progression is perfect which I find to be a huge problem with instruction books. <br /> <br />So what are the problems... <br />- This book won't teach you anything about really reading music if you want to learn that.  It breifly goes through the chromatic scale about halfway through but there are no excercises (which are needed) to help you through and practice.   It touches upon notes up the fretboard but is really inadequate if this is what you want to learn. <br /> <br />-It should have alternative finger positioning for chords.  For example for Em it says use finger 1 and 2 where as many would agree that 2 and 3 is better. <br /> <br />-Some of the songs don't really have the correct strumming patterns and thus don't sound right.  Also some of the songs most people will not have heard of and this deafeats the purpose.  (for example Down By the River - Neil Young) <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Good book for the money.  Probably better for the older crowd but worth getting if you want to learn some guitar to see if you enjoy it.	2005-10-06
US	49694646	R3NVQTWWJGEA49	0140177396	371714764	Of Mice and Men	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Of Mice and Many................	I've noticed in different high schools I have worked at that this book is stil universely read with good reason.  I recently went through a Steinback phase after driving by the Steinback museum near Salinas on the 101 (California). <br /> <br />This book does so MANY things well it's really a template for how to write a complete novel.  At the simplest level, the plot is quick and fast paced and used effectively to stregnthen the other elements of the book.  The prose is perfect as the tone is appropriate throughout.  There is dread in the air when we are unsure of Lennie's actions or future and a calm in the scenes where we see friednly interaction between the two main characters.  The book is touching and the characterization makes these people real and emotional.  Finally the themes of percieved right and wrong, being your own person, and idividual freedom are all touched upon expertly. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  There is a reason why this has been made into a play, a movie, and is mandatory reading in high school.  If you are looking to read a \\"classic\\" and want some lighter reading that won't consume too much time then this is for you.	2005-10-05
US	49694646	R3G9IXLMI4PG33	0679735771	92932803	American Psycho	Books	3	7	13	N	N	The sad state of the world today....	This is not a review....I repeat this is not a review.  I used to have a review of this book, but being in the educational field where I deal with 7-12th graders, and acknowledging the fact that this is a public domain in which any student could identify me and a said review of this book, I have been advised that some things just shouldn't be talked about. <br /> <br />What is wrong with the world today?  In our litigious society, public educators get little respect and are more and more at risk to the passing whims and lawsuits of angry parents.  Five years ago, this wasn't an issue.  But now the general educational climate exudes the rule of \\"don't give them any fodder\\". <br /> <br />American Psycho is a controversial book for obvious reasons.  A negative or a positive review of this particular work could be taken the wrong way.  Some might argue that my other reviews would lead one to conclude that I probably enjoyed this book.  I am officialy saying nothing about this book because of the following.  Sorry if this doesn't help. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  I did create a new login and username for Amazon and left an anonymous review of this book.  It's sad I had to do that.	2005-10-04
US	49694646	RJK46YKXQXYGE	067978148X	645048612	The Rules of Attraction	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Relive your college days through Ellis' best work....	Ok so maybe this is a bit more extreme than most people's college experience but this book rises above Bret Easton Ellis' other works because you can relate to his characters to some degree.  All of the other classic Ellis trademarks are there but I feel this is his most accesible book to date and thus his best. <br /> <br />The book follows various college students through their various escapades of sex, drugs, and parties.  The story switches 1st person perspectives, often examining the same plot events through the eyes of different characters.  This is where the book works best as Ellis completely immerses you in the head of his screwed up protagonists.  This results in some very clever juxtaposition and is also extremeley hilarious.  I found myself laughing out loud numerous times which is pretty rare for me while reading.  Like typical Ellis, the characters have lost their way in life but the way he constructs their stream of consciousness makes these characters more fleshed out then say Clay, and Julian from Less Than Zero.  People often compare these two books because of the similar themes of loss of idenity but ROA takes it to next level by adding personality to it's players.  By the end of ROA I wanted to read more excerpts from the experiences of Sean and Lauren. <br /> <br />For those of you unfamiliar with the Ellis universe, his characters make cameos in other books.  One example is Patrick Bateman (from American Psycho)who makes a cameo as the main character's brother (Sean).    Also look for a hilarious appearence by Victor, the main character of Glamorama.  I often wonder if these character cameos were premeditated by Ellis.  They are nice but by no means are they neccesary to the enjoyment of this novel. <br /> <br />As far as the movie vs. book comparison goes I don't think you need to like the movie to like this book.  It's really an excellent piece of work and the movie was well done but its not really in the same league as the book.  I really dislike how the latest publication of the book has the pictures of actors from the movie on it.  This just deracts from the readers's imagination and also some of the physical descriptions of the characters are different (especially Lauren).  I hate it when they put movie actors on the covers of books. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  I consider Brett Easton Ellis in a genre of his own and this is book transcends that said genre.  I would only recommend his other books to certain people but this one breaks that rule.  One disclaimer is that this book is for adults only.  It has explicit sexual situations and extensive drug use.	2005-10-03
US	49694646	R12FAC10DGF1NK	0679781498	693345954	Less Than Zero	Books	4	1	2	N	N	An entertaining excercise in pointlessness.	Ellis' initial literary offering is a foray into the absurdity and pointlessness of life.  Although most would completely disagree with Ellis' philosphy, he nonetheless paints an interesting picture with lifelessness and general mailaise of his primary characters.  His characters have nothing to live for, no ambitions and thus their experiences are entertaining exactly because we don't identify with them. <br /> <br />Clay is back from college and visiting his family in LA.  The book takes us through various that involve either Sex, drugs or disfuntional relationships and often all three.  These characters have no soul and thus basically feel no remorse about anything. <br /> <br />Ellis' ability to invoke this souless atmosphere combined with his use of clever literary devices are what make this book worth reading.  You certainly (or at least hopefully) won't personally like his characters but you will feel like you are with them in early 80's culture while reading this.  It's entertaining even though I couldn't really relate to the charcaters at all.  Perhaps that is the appeal as you can live through these charcters vicariously without really suffering the consequeces...... <br /> <br />For those thinking of getting in Brett Easton Ellis, this is a great place to start.  Not as good as Rules of Attraction, and not as hard to swallow as American Psycho or Glamorama, this falls somewhere in between.  This is basically a companion piece to the Informers but overall a better book.  Ellis really is a stroke of genuis but not for everyone by any means. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  fans of Ellis should obviously read this.  If intense drug use and explicit sexual situations bother you then this probably isn't for you.	2005-10-03
US	49694646	R248E127KXLUC6	0385722192	598573199	Lullaby	Books	3	1	2	N	N	More of the same from Chuck but is that bad??   (3.5 stars)	Lullaby is Palahnuik's fifth and by now we have come to expect culture commentary, eccentric characters, absurd surreal plotting and general debauchery associated with sex, drugs, and rock & roll.  Palhnuik does this better than anyone but I have accepted the idea that reading all of his books in a row is not the preffered method.  Taking some time in between books will make his disticnt writing style less repetitive. <br /> <br />Also his books aren't for everyone as they are filled with dry humor and moral amibuguity.  If the idea of random bodies dropping like flies in the middle of absurd situations doesn't sound entertaining...than Lullaby isn't for you.  Other than that Lullaby is your typical C.P. fare but not as strong as some of his other books.   <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Great book but not the place to start if you haven't read any of Palhnuik's other books.  Try Survivor or Invisible Monsters first.	2005-10-02
US	49694646	RWT28VGK9EVM2	0385498721	179075750	Survivor: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	My favorite Palahnuik book to date....(4.5)	Survivor is tour de force containing many elements of the \\"classic\\" book.  It has various layers of subtlety and social commentary while at the same time being an excellent page turner.  You can enjoy this book for its thematic messages or you can read on the beach as \\"leave your brain\\" at the door page turner.  The charcarter of Tender Branson is extremely entertaining while at the same time emotionally enduring and by the end you will be rooting him on.  Survivor is well thought out and clever.  The in-jokes will make you smile (just as in Fight Club) and plot progression is extremely clever.  The book is the perfect length (a rarity in this day and age) and I'm actually surprised it hasn't been made into a movie yet.  Do yourself a favor and try to go into knowing as little as possible because one's reaction to the absurd is best experienced when its a surprise. <br /> <br />I think Survivor is the best Palahnuik book for various reasons.  It's the most accesible (besides fight club) in the sense that it really won't offend your senses like Lullaby, Choke, and Invisible Monsters can with the sex and violence.  I really think Palahnuik hit his peak with this one.  It's similar in design and characterization to Fight Club but just more polished.  This was his second book and Invisible Monsters was superb as well but since he has gone downhill as he ups the debauchery. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Survivor is a must read for anyone who likes clever modern fiction.  This book was published Jan. 4, 2000 and what a way to start the literary millenium!! This will offend you if you are Amish...	2005-09-30
US	49694646	R1FE2JKKWZCE6Q	0805076476	311054036	Fight Club: A Novel	Books	3	6	6	N	N	Rare case where movie is actually better than book (3.5 stars)..	Fight Club is one of the rare instances where the movie might actually be better than the book.  Of course I'm only talking about situations where the book came first.  Books taken from movies aren't worth the space they fill on the shelves of airport drugtores.  Anyway I digress...I stil recommend reading the book first though as I think it would of been aa 5 star book had I not already seen the movie.  It was really hard not to always picture Pitt, Norton and Carter as their respective charcarters.  Also already knowing the ending takes away one of the best aspects of the experience....especially if you have read other Chuck before. <br /> <br />I would rank Fight Club as Palahnuik's third best book behind Survivor and Invisible Monsters but better than Choke and Lullaby which are stil good books.  Fight Club would be a good place for someone looking to get into Palahnuik's books as you can just sink into his style as the movie helps you follow the plot.   <br /> <br />Bottom Line: If you haven't seen Fight Club then I would highly recommend this book...otherwise it's reserved for current or potential fans of Chuck.	2005-09-29
US	49694646	R28OAWX79V1KBN	0345464028	579397011	Iron Council	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Who would be victorious in Judah Low vs. Uther Doul......	I've read some of the other reviews so I will try to add something new to the mix. <br /> <br />This is another masterpiece by Mievelle and a must read but only after you have let the experience of Perdido Street Station and The Scar sink in.  A journey to Bas Lag is not an easy vacation to take and Iron Council is no exception.  Be prepared for a joureny in the drudge, slime, and pollution that is Mievelle's universe and revel in while it lasts.   <br /> <br />The general consensus is that Iron Council is not as good as Perdido Street Station or The Scar but stil better than 99% of the stuff out there and I would concur.  The question is why??  The ploting is fantastic.  The marathon flashback sequence is the best section of the book.  Mievelle ends his books really well and Iron Council is again no exception.  There are subtle (and not so subtle) political and social commentary undercurrents throughout the book.  The characterization is fantastic and Judah Low will make you believe.  So why is this book offically 3rd in the unofficial Bas Lag trilogy? <br /> <br />I really have no idea.  My first guess would be the prose.  Mievelle makes a major stylistic change in perspective and rythmical flow.  I felt the result was more poetical (is that a word?) but at the same time more abstract than his previous efforts.  It took a while to get used to but after a while it seemed completely natural.  My second theory is that when you think about it.. trains, revlots and golems are great but just not as cool at the major set pieces centered around the first two books.  Regardless if you read PSS and The Scar, there is no reason not to read Iron Council. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  Uther Doul by a judges decision..	2005-09-28
US	49694646	R1IWXO4LJ1X34Y	0345444388	397145373	The Scar (Bas-Lag)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The great debate....	The biggest question surrounding China Mievelle's The Scar, is not whether or not it's good, the question is whether or not it's better than its awesome predecessor, Perdido Street Station.      For me the answer is no but for many the answer is yes.  Regardless there are a couple of truths that need to be stated.  1)  Don't read this until after you read Perdido Street Station and 2)  Fans of PSS will not be disappointed!!    There is so much going on in this book and a synopsis is unnecessary since it advantageous to know nothing going in.  The book does take place in Mievelle's Bas Lag universe and most or the races and imagery we experienced in Perdido Street Station reappears.    This book further establishes Mievelle as a master of the fantastical but he is so much than that.  One aspect of the Scar is the legendary cast of characters Mievelle creates.  Uther Doul will transgress the physical constraints of the page and permanently take residence on the BAD ASS pedestal of your mind.      Just like Perdido Street Station, the book never takes the easy way out.  Also like PSS, The Scar will send goose bumps down your spine as it your travel through it narcissistic and dirty world.  The experience is violent, visceral and memorable.  The plot is well thought out and the ending will stay with you long after you have lent this book to everyone who hasn't read it...    Bottom Line:  Another must read for fans of sci fi, fantasy and lovers of imagination and creativity.  Mievelle is my favorite author of this decade hands down.	2005-09-27
US	49694646	RQHO6HQKBP86K	0345459407	981903971	Perdido Street Station	Books	5	2	6	N	Y	Challenge yourself with something superbly rewarding..	I rarely give anything 5 stars but Perdido Street Station deserves it for so many reasons.  This book haunted me as it made me cheer, shutter, and anticipate every page.  It's up there in my favorites of all time and its imagery hasn't left me since I read it over a year ago.  Mievelle is that good!! <br /> <br />There are already over 200 reviews on Amazon so I will try to say some things about this book that haven't be said numerous times. <br /> <br />I always run into people who have read The Da Vinci Code and Harry Potter in the past 3 years and not much else.  For those people this book might not be for you.  It's not easy reading even though the plot keeps the pages turning once you get in the thick of it (the last 350 pages...)   <br /> <br />The book has imagery that will blow your mind and Mievelle's style of prose and the fantastical elements of New Crobuzon is a marriage made in literary heaven.  The characters are brought to life and you will be rooting for their success while their plight will make you morose.  The ending is superb and will leave you with a morality conundrum for days.  Finally this is one of those books that is able to convey deeper messages about life and society within the constructs of plot driven novel and that also helps elevate it to a certain status of importance. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  I found this book inspiring.  Mievelle has established himself as a force to be reckoned with.  This book is special because it's a character study, a morality play, a social commentary, a page-turner and to top it off, a good ol' fashioned bug hunt!	2005-09-26
US	49694646	R2DKESMQYYOKAA	0312866151	697303352	Where Late The Sweet Birds Sang: A Novel	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Almost 30 years later, this book is more relevant now then ever...	Those familiar with Wilhelm's large catalogue of mystery novels probably don't even know that she won the Hugo Award for best science fiction novel in 1976/77 with this entry.  Although this falls into the science fiction genre, it really is able to transcend all the normal SF stereotypes and ends up being a fantastic read. <br /> <br />The book is about a post-holocaust community that aims to perpetuate the human species through cloning.  The book is divided into three sections with the first being the best and this could stand alone as a novella by itself although I wouldn't say the book is entirely uneven. <br /> <br />Despite what other reviewers have posted, I think there is some basic cloning science in this but its comprehension in needed to fully appreciate the book. Wilhelm is smart not to delve too hard into the science as capturing the humanistic side of her characters is clearly her strength. <br /> <br />The book expounds on the individual vs. the collective theme and this is one of the reasons why it doesn't feel dated.  With cloning on the technological horizon, this book provides an interesting fictional take on the pitfalls of scientific procreation vs. natural childbirth. <br /> <br />Bottom Line:  A short book about cloning mixed with a strong dose of humanity.  A great book for non-sf readers looking to expand their horizons.  A must read for anyone who likes to read the Hugo winners.	2005-09-26
US	49694646	R2QMGP9HCMUXWJ	0345385403	221203857	Complete Vampire Chronicles (Interview with the Vampire, The Vampire Lestat, The Queen of the Damned, The Tale of the body Thief)	Books	4	75	96	N	Y	Do you really want to live forever?	This is a box set of the first four books of Anne Rice's popular Vampire Chronicles series.  Her works are immensely popular and have spawned 1 1/2 movies (calling Queen Of The Damned even half a movie is being extremely generous!) and many many sequels.  I picked up this box set after being told by numerous people that the first four were worth reading and I was really pleaseatly surprised.  (I've heard that the series really goes downhill fast after the The Tail Of The Body Thief)<br />The vampires in this universe are elegant beings of the night who are very articulate and this traslates to immense description.  This may bother some but once you get used to Rice's style, it could best be described as a dreamy flow of the subconscious and it works well for the series.  The books take you all over the USA and much of Europe as well and Rice does a great job of creating these vampires that have very human qualities.<br />The series mainly centers around the title character Lestat.  Lestat is a fascianting study of the flawed uber-vampire who does what he wants and refuses to conform to the vampire \\"rules\\".  He knows he is not perfect but realizes the only way to live through immortality is to enjoy oneself whenever one can.  The supporting cast has their fair share of interesting characters and the personalities of the vampires are really the heart of the series.<br />A couple of things Rice does makes her vampire world so fascinating.  The vampires act as their own little microsociety with rules and taboos that are well thought out and extremely interesting.  For example the longer a vampire makes before creating another vampire determines how powerfull that new vampire will be.  There are complications to living forever that you never would of thought of.  The vampires have no sexual urges but instead the act of bloodletting serves as their mental and physical urge for copulation.  Vampires don't marry each other but instead have extremely strong emotional bonds with each other and thier own fledglings (when you create another vampire they become your fledgiling)  They stay together for an indefinite period until an unknown force breaks their emotional connection.  This makes for some fascinating relationships that almost seem like \\"couples\\" but without the physical relationship.  These bonds are often between same gender vampires and sometimes include three or four vampires.  All these interesting parameters make for an web of relationships that frequently change.<br />The biggest con of the series is that sometimes the prose drags on forever and certain parts could be shorter. They were all good, but actually I thought the fourth book was the best and it was also the shortest.  <br />Bottom Line:  An entertaining series that will be most enjoyed by experienced readers and fans of romantic self indulgent nuerotic blood suckers.	2003-07-21
US	49694646	R11VO7YTLMA5DS	0345452062	556257635	Rise to Rebellion (The American Revolutionary War)	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	Forget the controversy, this book rocks.....	I love Shaara's works.  Being interested in history, I find all of his works to be researched well enough, and generally extremely entertaining.  There are many who criticize his characterization as inaacurate but obviously the events in his novel are correct and that is good enough for me.  You have to go into his books with the mindset that they are historical fiction and he always includes a disclaimer about his characterizations.  His method of research is meticulous and it shows in every aspect of the book.  The locations, the setting and even the whether is accurate.  <br />Bottom Line: If you like longer than average books and the subject interests you, you have to try this out.  Shaara also has a trilogy about the Civil War but Rise to Rebellion is where you should start.	2003-07-18
US	49694646	R18CR5BIQ7TTXC	0385720920	729613164	Choke	Books	2	1	2	N	N	(2.5 stars)  Ok, but not Palahniuk's best work......	The style of this book is similar to Chuck's other books; schitzo, funny and obscene and surreal.  I like his style and this wasn't the problem with this book. The problem I had with this book is twofold. First, the mystery, surprise, \\"payoff\\" or whatever term you want to refer to the ending was weak in comparison to Fight Club, Survivor and Invisible Monsters.  In general the plot was just boring and all the usual interjections and interesting musings weren't enough to overcome the lack of a plot.  Stuff happens but it isn't really building up to something like in the other novels.  Second, Mancini is the hardest of Chuck's primary characters to relate to.  All of his main characters are extreme and outrageous but they all have some humane aspect about them we can relate to.  I thought Mancini was the most tired and unoriginal of the bunch and the sex addict bit was played out after Fight Club.  Also I didn't but the whole choking thing....how did he get his saviors to send him checks...would you send someone money just because you saved them from choking?<br />Bottom Line: funny in parts and Chuck fans should check it out.  If you are intereseted in Palahnuik, try any of the other 4 first.	2003-07-15
US	49694646	R16A079XOTCSTY	0393319296	728974914	Invisible Monsters: A Novel	Books	4	0	2	N	Y	A jaw dropper..............	Wow I love this crap.  Many people criticize Chuck for his dislexic pre-pubescent writing style but I think they are just jealous because he has made millions off it.  Having read all of his books except Lulluaby, I agree that he doesn't vary much from his winning formula so if you don't like one, you probably wont like the rest.  The fact of the matter is these books are funny, absurd and surreal and that is what I like about them.<br />No need to cover the plot.  Its your standard indentity crisis finding yourself fluff.  The plot sequence works becuase it is as amazingly ridiculous and absurd and surreal as the characters and the setting.  The one liners, the language, the vanity, the valiums, the violence, the sex, the gender switching, the irony, I love it all and this was one of those books I read in two days.<br />Bottom line:  A must read for Chuck fans, aspiring models, lovers of pulp noir garbage the sick &amp; perverted and people in love with themselves.  Not appropriate for bedtime reading for the kiddies!	2003-07-15
US	49694646	R1NV95G0OZIO50	0812533054	856857613	Seventh Son (Tales of Alvin Maker, Book 1)	Books	3	7	8	N	Y	Card's religious foray into a parallel 19th century....	I'm assuming that most people reading this review are fans of Card's Ender's Game and are wondering what else he has been up to.  This book takes place on the western frontier of America circa 1801.  In this parallel universe an alternate history has been written that is similar to our own but here common folk have magical powers that make life a little more interesting.  Alvin is the seventh son of a seventh son and this is powerful and special birthright in this universe.  This story is the first of five and much of it is exposition for the series.<br />A couple of things make this world interesting and Card's creativity shines through.  Individuals in this world have special powers that range in power and usefullness. Some people have the ability to make a spark and light fires, one person has the abiltiy to find the best point to dig a well.  Others have knacks for making protective hexes, or seeing your soul (called heartfire).  Of course Alvin is not your average kid and his powers exceed and surprise thorugout the story in various entertaining manners.  I really like the way Alvin is a character with exceptional morals dealing with various forces while trying to understand his adolescent view of the world.  This first book sets the stage for two excellent followups before Card looses some steam and goes awry.  The fourth book is average and the fifth book is downright bad.  The family interaction is precious and Card gets away from this later on. <br />The religious aspect of this series is it's biggest downfall and the books where religion is more prominent are the weekest of the series.  The Alvin Makers series is a loosely based on the Book of Mormon and Card tends to get a bit preachy at times (especially in the first book).  This takes the book down a star as Card's dogma isnt necessary to the story or the actions of the characters.  There are also mixed and hypocritical religious views within the stories that are too complex to go into here and needlessto say religious zealots, born-again Christians and Orthodox Jews might get offended.<br />Bottom Line: This is good stuff if you can stomach the preaching and sentimental corniness.  Books 2 and 3 are the Jewel of the series but these aren't really stand alone books.	2003-07-13
US	49694646	R1Q94NWNHMMU3C	0553562738	466136665	Doomsday Book	Books	1	13	33	N	Y	What a mess.......	I don't know where to begin except to say how disapointed I was in this book.  I actually feel bad that Willis wasted 5 years of her life on this.  I have read most of the Hugo awards winners and this just doesn't stand up.  I guess she spent a lot of her time researching the 14th century and the Black Death but it didn't pay off in the entertainment department.<br />The only semi-interesting aspect of this book was the time travel aspect.  Willis has a well thought plan here with some originality in it that makes for an interesting premise.  I like how the different time periods are rated based on how dangerous they are and how the detail behind the training that time travelers go through.  Unfortunately pretty much everything else about the rest of the book is horrible.<br />The plot switches from the main character stuck in England in 1348 on the eve of the Black Plauge to her fellow colleagues in 2048 England.  The biggest problem of this book is that it is flat out BORING! The main character is a whiny grad student who knew she shouldn't be traveling back in time and really does nothing to capture the hearts of the reader.  Part of the problem is she is a twit, part of the problem is the plot devices used are bad choices.  She arrives in 1348, gets lost and sick and almost dies at that takes 300 pages.  In the next 250 pages she slowly starts to realize that she is off her target by X amount of years and is there on the eve of the plauge but the reader has realized this long before.  Back in 2048, we sit through stupid characters going through the usual political intrigue stuff involving opening up the time portal and debating wether or not to send people back to save her.<br />It's a shame that this book turned out like it did.  I wouldn't mind reading another shot at the 2048 world and time travel ability that Willis created.  Willis does a great job of putting you into the setting but this village in 1348 was just bland and boring and maybe this book could of benefitted from a change of setting.  Also Willis needs work on her charaters.  By the end of the book I couldn't care less if Kivrin made it out or not.  Most of the other characters were one-dimensional at best.  Finally the book was just way too predictable.  Everything that happened was telegraphed so early that I was screaming at the book for a surprise.<br />Its funny how the Hugo award was split in 93 with this trash and Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon The Deep.  Both books are similar in the sense that they deal with individuals in a foreign land dealing with external forces and trying to come to terms with themselves.  A Fire Upon The Deep is an amazing book that is does everything right that Doomsday does wrong and I can't fathom how a tie possibly occured.<br />Bottom Line: Avoid this like the Plauge!of benefitted from a change of setting.  Also Willis needs work on her charaters.  By the end of the book I couldn't care less if Kivrin made it out or not.  Most of the other characters were one-dimensional at best.  Finally the book was just way too predictable.  Everything that happened was telegraphed so early that I was screaming at the book for a surprise.<br />Its funny how the Hugo award was split in 93 with this trash and Vernor Vinge's A Fire Upon The Deep.  Both books are similar in the sense that they deal with individuals in a foreign land dealing with external forces and trying to come to terms with themselves.  A Fire Upon The Deep is an amazing book that is does everything right that Doomsday does wrong and I can't fathom how a tie possibly occured.<br />Bottom Line: Avoid this like the Plauge!	2003-07-13
US	49694646	R1XFGG1GMA1XX3	0789427761	26962753	101 Essential Tips: Hiking (101 Essential Tips)	Books	1	15	19	N	Y	Pretty much useless.......	The problem with this book is that is doesn't play to one specific audience and by doing so renders itself useless.  It offers tips that are very basic as well as advanced but it doesn't make any sense.  Its a small book meant to be taken with you while you hike but so it doesn't cover any one tip in too much detail.  Because of its brevity, some tips are actually incomplete and could be dangerous on top of not containg enough information.<br />TIP 2- Choosing Companions- walking with a group is safer than walking alone, and walking with friends is preferable to walking with strangers.  (Rocket science folks!)  Find a walking association and make an effort to talk to everyone early on. <BR>         --so here the book is supposing that you are somebody who has never hiked before.<br />Other tips go on to talk about choosing clothing, food, tents and backpacks so here the book is assuming you are going on a multi night camping trip which is fine but the information here is not thourough enough for inexperienced hikers so it really ends up being useless.  Tips 8-24 aren't bad as they talk about boots, fitting you pack and how to pack it as well as foot care and the layer system.  It pretty much goes downhill from there though as we get the myriad of misinformation and common knoweldege.  <br />TIP 25- Sleeping Bags- says nothing about the temp rating system or down bags or the difference between house sleeping bags and camping sleeping bags.  <br />TIP 30- Bring Portable Foods- no duh!<br />TIP 36- Bring First Aid Kit- yikes!<br />TIP 38- goes into detail about planning your route on a multi night hike.  Does not talk about distance planning and makes it seem like a breeze.  This is misleading and you shouldn't be making your own routes along places without trails unless you actually have some unmarked backcountry experience.  <br />TIP 41 and 42- How a compass works and setting your compass.  -great except for the fact that again, someone who doesn't know how to do this should not be getting them in a situation where they need to do for the first time from a book!<br />TIP 46- Navigating by stars-  see problems with 38, 41 and 42....<br />TIP 61-63- crossing dangerous water alone, in groups etc...oy vey don't get yourself into this please!<br />There are some usefull tips here and there but for the most part I don't like this book.  There are some usefull first aid tips but most kits contain this information in them already or you just get a pamhlet of the internet that does.<br />Bottom Line:  Anyone new to hiking should check out other bigger books at their bookstere which go into more detail about types of shoes, conditioning, safety etc..  <br />Anyone who wants to get into more serious day hikes or multi night trips should try out the Backpackers Handbook by Chris Townsend.  This is an excellent book that pretty much covers everything this book does but in much more depth.	2003-07-01
US	49694646	R26XMDGUKNF0HJ	0060929790	795338322	One Hundred Years of Solitude	Books	3	6	13	N	Y	well done but overrated	Marquez masterpiece is confused hodge podge of mystical comedy intwoven with futlity, fuzzy logic and frustration.  Marquez tells the story of the town of Macondo founded by Jose Arcadio Buendia.  The book revolves around three generations of the family that tells the history of the town and its inhabitants.  Marquez moves in a semi linear fashion using major events to move along the 100 year timeline.  The Buendia family is full of lively characters most severly faulted in various manners and each having their own little piccadillioes.  Offspring share only a handful of names and all people with the same namesake are painfully famliar.  The town is amidst of curses, magic and wonder in an interesting dichotomy that combines the majestic with the tragic.  Every character is doomed to fail or change in some undesirable way except for Ursula Buendia whose love and warmth is only extinguished in her death.  The men are bullheaded and all the characters are two dimensional and predictable in their actions and reactions but Marquez uses this represent his chatoic and futile world where nothing can be prevented.  Macondo and its inhabitants are unable to change or adapt to the modernizing world and thus eventually must succumb to its fate.<br />This is one of those sometimes wonderful, sometimes frustrating books that goes on a little too long.  Marquez style can't maintain interest the whole book and I got upset with the characters after awhile because of thier similarity.<br />Bottom Line:  50 years of solitude would of preferable!  Fans interested in Latin Literature should check it out but I prefer Love In A Time Of Cholera to this.	2003-06-25
US	49694646	R3O3IHB22AXS8L	0140119906	702863006	Love in the Time of Cholera (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	4	2	3	N	Y	A love story that works in the 21st century.....	This is great book and really deserves the tag of &quot;classic&quot; that is associated with it.  Marquez creates memorable characters that are demand emotion from the readers as thier life unfolds. Florentino is the unliked the who at first emits nievity turned into annoyance turned into pathos and completed with acceptance.  Flamina is portrayed in a delicate manner as loving woman and we come to like her even though she rejects the protagonist.  Marquez jumps around these characters lives flawlessly and the book spans their whole life but does not overstay its welcome.<br />Marquez' imagery goes well with eternal love theme and the reader will finish this book feeling complete and content.  For anyone who has viewed a loved one from the outside this book offers eventual hope although some might determine it depressing. Is it better to have loved and lost or to never have loved at all?<br />Bottom Line:  success in a time of cholera!	2003-06-25
US	49694646	R3DQC9V69SW5WC	0380708213	223407615	The Forever War	Books	4	1	1	N	Y	Fast paced action with a message ....	Here is a tidy piece of work for all you anti-war people out there.  Haldeman revisits the ultra-violent military genre and creates a fast-paced, character portrait that is worthy of the sci-fi awards it has one.  <br />This book borrows on numerous themes but is unique because of the world Haldeman creates.  The loniless and futility of army life is portrayed and Haldeman is extrapolating on his own Vietnam experiences. The protagonist works his way up the military ladder by virtue of of everyone else dying and meanwhile the pointlessness of war is threatening to shatter his world. <br />Bottom Line: Violent sci fi book that rocks the whole way through!  On par with other Hugo award winners.	2003-06-24
US	49694646	R2D6BGKSQN57E1	0070653151	320795039	The Backpacker's Handbook, 2nd Edition	Books	5	14	14	N	Y	Perfect for anyone getting interested in backpacking..	This is a perfect book for anyone getting interested in backpacking and doesn't have a lot of experience.  Townshend goes over every aspect of backpacking that you need to know including shoes, socks, innerware, outerware, accesories, backpacks, food, saftey, sleeping bags, tents and the list goes on.  He tells you the correct way to pack your back pack, what to bring depending on the season and the length of the trip, the different types of ways of cooking food on a trip, the inner working of a hiking boot and it just doesn't stop.  When it comes to brands and specific models of products he names names and tells you what works and what doesn't work. <br />On top of all this his tone and wirting style make for semi-causal reading that doesn't feel like a pain to read.  The chapters are organized in ways that are easy to skip around in if you want and he has some interesting personal anecdotes taken from his vast hiking experience.  He also talks about building up stamina to walk long distances, how to survive on the water of the land and how to make an igloo if you are camping in the snow.<br />Get this book if you are looking for an introductory guide to backpacking.  I expecially recommend it if you are thinking about buying any expensive camping gear as I used much of the information before I bought my own Backpack, Boots, and Sleeping Bag.	2003-06-23
US	49694646	R2O9M9GVJZSVSH	0375703845	939433309	Glamorama (Vintage Contemporaries)	Books	3	3	5	N	Y	Ellis' schitzo foray into writing with a plot........	This was one of those fascinating books that is hard to put down but unfortunately leaves you frustrated.  Arse-kicking ultraviolent terrorist supermodels is an interesting premise but this is really a book about chaos, reality perception, and fiding out who you are.  The ending was disapointing and underwhelming and many complain about the violence and pornographic sex but this book is tame compared to Elllis' American Psycho.<br />Ellis took six years to write this and you can tell that from the tone and direction the book takes through its progress that Ellis himself changed during this period.  I commend him for trying something (somewhat) new with this book becuase by the time I finished American Psycho, I was getting a little tired of his plotless formula.  Victor Ward as a character is a little base to front a self discovery novel but it Ellis' wit and prose carries the book well enough.<br />Bottom Line:  fans of Ellis should of course pick this up but again I think that Ellis books should be read in order.  Those who have read all of his books will be inexplicably drawn to this one as I myself was.  Wether Ellis sticks with his typical ambience piece or goes for another linear plot book is fine by me because I am just curious to see what he will do next.<br />People not familiar with Ellis' works should start with Less Than Zero.	2003-06-20
US	49694646	RCK87JYQGD7MI	0679743243	852717862	The Informers	Books	3	0	0	N	Y	Ellis isn't the best short story writer.	This complilation has some good and some bad stories but unfortunately I can't really recommend this book and myabe it's because I am not a huge fan of short story complations.  There are some characters that appear througout and some continuity but most of these stories are the same versions of each other in one form or another.  Ellis' has that ability to replicate that sunshine maliase of Los Angeles known only to its inhabitants and this makes it interesting for So Cal readers like myself as is also the case with Less Than Zero.  Ellis needs more than a few pages to set up his characters and that is part of the problem of Informers.  <br />Bottom Line: fans of Ellis should check it out, curious readers should start at the beginnin with Less Than Zero.  Reading Ellis' books in order is actually really important for two reasons.  First, Less Than Zero is the easiest read of them all and it introduces you to his style in a gradual manner.  Second, Ellis uses the amusing literary trick of characters popping up here and there in other novels and you will recognize the most of these by reading his books in chronilogical order.	2003-06-18
US	49694646	R1T1FI7T8YO262	0786927062	485622641	Dragons of a Lost Star (The War of Souls, Volume II)	Books	3	1	1	N	Y	An decent middle installment.	Fans of the Dragonlance series might have bittersweet experience reading this book.  It is excellent and true to form but looking back I can't help but feel some resentment because of how awful and disapointing the last book was.  I would almost reccommend stopping here and leaving the world of Krynn just to avoid the awful ending.  <br />Weiss and Hickman are in their usual form here but the book lacks the great characters of other trilogies.  Tas's schtick is starting to get old and not and I'm sorry but Palin is a poor man's Raistlin.  Mina is mysterious at first but starts to get a little tedious.  What works is the political intrigue among the elves, the final battle, the dragon hieracrchy and two Solamnic Knights.  This makes for a page turner that is hard to put down.<br />Curious fantasy readers who haven't read the fist one or the Chronicles and Legends series should stay away.	2003-06-18
US	49694646	R3TE08102HBDPY	0385492081	82772270	Into Thin Air: A Personal Account of the Mt. Everest Disaster	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	A fitting eulogy to those who parished...	This is an amazing book about one of human kinds most daunting feats.  The sheer number of people who have died climbing Everest makes one think why would you do this but I guess it is a moment that can define your life and that makes it special.<br />Into Thin Air brings you into the world of mountain climbing and tells the story of a tragic expedition in May of 1996.  Krakauer was a magazine wirter who recieved the &quot;privlidge&quot; of the opportunity to climb Everest with one of the most famous expedition leaders of all time.  <br />Krakauer does an amazing job of bringing us into the world of mountain climbing and then going through the events of his climb as he remembers them.  I found it facinating learning about the history of climing Everest. Krakauer talks about the famous climbs and the feat of elusive accomplishment mecca of mountain climbing- doing the 7 summits.  (Climbing the highest point on each continent)  He also talks about the work, planning and finances involved with an Everest expedition and how commercialized it has become in reent years.  Bad weather poor decisions and unfortunate circumstances lead to lost party members and worse as we live through climb with Krakauer.  Krakauer makes everyday people into characters we know and feel for (or hate) and he is respectful and mournfull of all who passed away.  (not exploitive)<br />This book is not just for mountain climbing fans.  Krakauer can a get a bit self-righteous at times but its a minor flaw of an otherwise incredible read.	2003-06-18
