US	49698724	R101M07BDYBWCO	0805059970	467213568	Anne Frank: The Biography	Books	5	13	16	N	N	Fifty years later the horror still lingers	From the years of 1939 to 1945 mankind endured the darkest period of evil and brutality that has gone unparalleled in the modern (and ancient) era.  One wicked man's irrational, murderous hatred and insatiable lust for power, combined with the cruel, sociopathic personalities of cowardly henchmen such as Hoess, Himmmler, Goering, and Eichmann, to name a mere few, swept the continent of Europe into total devastation and near destruction, destroying dreams and cancelling the futures of the soldiers who fought for both sides, those who were simple bystanders in bombing raids, and others who simply had the misfortune to be considered \\"undesirable\\" and who perished in inhumane, intolerable conditions in horrendous concentration camps such as Auschwitz, Bergen-Belsen, Dachau, Treblinka, Sobibor, and Neuengamme.  The dreadfulness of their pain and the senseless of their deaths cannot be imagined, described, forgiven, or forgotten.<br />One of the millions who was murdered during the Holocaust was Anne Frank, the young Jewish girl who lived in hiding with her older sister Margot, their parents Otto and Edith, Hermann and Auguste Van Pels, their son Peter, and Dr Fritz Pfeffer, a dentist, in Amsterdam, Holland, in the secret annexe of the office building which still stands at 263 Prinsengracht. As a literary work and historical document, Anne's diary is perhaps one of the most important volumes to emerge from the twentieth century.  However, when reading it, one must remember that it was written by an ordinary teenage girl who was forced to exist under extraordinary and wearisome conditions that would have strained the patience of the Lord himself.  Neither Anne nor her co-habitants saw anyone but each other and their benefactors day in and day out, week in and week out, month in and month out, year in and year out.   Hence I feel that the above situation must be considered when reflecting on her often harsh views of her fellow annexe dwellers.<br />Melissa Muller's book isa great companion to the diary but should not be read instead of it - to do this would be severely shortchanging to oneself.  It provides a rounder, fuller narrative of the times, places, and people in Anne's life and of those that decided her fate.  From the rise of the Nazi's and their use of bullying tactics as their tyranny and terrorism begins, to Anne's formative years, and a broader, wider, more objective description of the Frank's life in hiding.  Particularly heartrending are the chapters in which Melissa Muller describes 4 August 1944, the day the annexe dwellers were arrested, betrayed, like Judas betrayed Jesus, for a symbolic twelve pieces of silver, and previously little known details of Anne's life in the death camps Auschwitz and Bergen-Belsen as she bravely fought, and bravely lost, the battle for survival. The tears will fall as the words are read, as they will fall as we share the moment that Otto Frank learns of the terrible fate of his daughters.  To lose a beloved spouse is bad enough, but to lose your child, to lose both your children, is an unfathomable and unimaginable grief that never fades even with the passage of many years.  And Otto Frank was only one of many parents during the war whose children would never come home..............<br />Yes, this is a great biography of Anne Frank, the Jewish teenager who became world famous because of her diary, who became world famous because she expired in a concentration camp.  But Anne is not merely ashes or dust - her soul lives on.  And what of her diary?  Her diary, the contents of which she guarded so fiercely, has become a gift to millions.	2002-05-16
US	49698724	R1AJR3WIS4CUUC	1564742954	300763432	Miriam's Gift: A Mother's Blessings-Then and Now	Books	5	2	3	N	N	She Was A Lover Of Life	Although Miriam Wolfe was a victim of terrorism, a victim of official incompetence and bungling that produced catastrophic results, this is not a book about her death.  This is a book about her life - a life lost much too soon.<br />Be sure to have plenty of tissues and hankies nearby while reading this book, for you'll surely need them.  For Miriam's story will touch you to the depths of your very soul and beyond.  Miriam was a gift bestowed from heaven and had heavenly gifts of compassion, love, and understanding bestowed upon her.  She was a truly gifted and unique individual and I'm deeply sorry I didn't know her, for if I had I would have been truly blessed.  So many crime and terrorism victims are swept under the rug because it is too \\"politically undesirable\\" for the powers that be in the international community to seek due recourse for the terrorist crimes committed by such states that sponsor them.  I can't understand this logic - why is it \\"politically undesirabe\\" to seek justice for the innocent, to speak loudly for those who no longer have a voice?  It took almost 12 years to bring the 2 fiends responsible for the Pan Am 103 bombing to trial.  Even then, 1 was acquitted and the other sentenced to 20 years in prison.  Can anyone justly believe that this is proper punishment for the taking of 270 innocent lives?<br />But this book does not deal with these political and diplomatic inadequacies, though Rosemary gives a brief depicition of these.  She wants to talk about her beloved only child Miriam.  While Miriam was not famous or well known, she possessed admirable stellar qualities.  As human as the rest of us and therefore imperfect, she was indeed a young woman who saw potential in goodness and beauty, who placed real value on life's simplest joys, who viewed the world and all its sweetnesses through eyes which saw the glass as half full rather than half empty.  Do all of you cowardly terrorists follow this concept?<br />Rosemary describes her and the rest of her family's reactions to this appalling deed in a heartsickeningly candid guise that will transport the reader from the snugness of their own lives into the bleakness caused by such random and unmitigated acts of incomprehensible evil.  I dare fellow readers to skip through this story.  You can't, for in a world still reeling from the ghastliness and horrors of 11 September 2001, it strikes too close to home.  For terrorists don't care who they destroy.<br />But how you live is more important than how you die.  Miriam's afterglow is great, for her name and her soul endures.  There are now scholarships and memorials awarded in her name.  Even in death, she's blessing people's lives and spirits with gifts given in the name of goodness.  She's still helping those less fortunate than herself.  What a wonderful legacy.  Hatred combined with a few ounces of Semtex plastic explosives can't possibly destroy that.	2002-04-02
US	49698724	R2239TL82X4E5F	1569801576	225119948	Sharon Tate and the Manson Murders	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Finally. Sharon emerges from the shadows	This way overdue biography of Sharon Tate finally gives her an identity other than being the most famous victim of one of the most horrific and bloodthirtsty mass murders/crime sprees of the last century.<br />It profiles Sharon Tate the daughter, Sharon Tate the sister, Sharon Tate the friend, and Sharon Tate the actress.  Previously unknown (at least by me anyway) information is parlayed about her childhood, adolescence, adulthood, career, and relationships with Jay Sebring (who was slain alongside her) and her perpetually philandering husband Roman Polanski.  From what people who loved her (and everybody who knew her did) have said about her in this biography and elsewhere, that although stunningly beautiful in appearance her true beauty lay within.<br />King also examines the progress of the murderers through the penal system and the metamorphasis of Sharon's relations, particularly her late mother and late sister Doris and Patti, from grieving survivors to passionate crusaders for justice and judicial reform.<br />And yes, the murders ARE discussed.  If I remember correctly, two chapters are devoted to the details of their commission.  These are undoubtedly the most gruesome, heartrending chapters ever penned and printed.  The Tate/LaBianca murders are recited in all their gory details; not to titillate but to educate, to show how heartless and merciless these killers were on those two nights.  As for whether they are still that way............well that's something for the psychiatric community to determine.<br />I find it puzzling to say the least, not to mention extremely obscene and offensive, that thirty plus years later Manson and his cohorts are still worshipped as cult/folk heroes by some imbeciles.  They are not heroes or symbols; they are brutal killers.  No one who reads this book will for one moment believe that the killers deserve to be paroled!<br />I do have two complaints, however, which is why I didn't give this book 5 stars.  Number one, the amount of typographical errors is simply ridiculous, honestly, wasn't the manuscript of this book proofread by an editor before it went into print?  And two, why so many pictures in the photo insert that are of the killers and so few of Sharon?	2001-07-08
US	49698724	R3ETBWDUA94FO3	0785268162	657306852	The Death of Innocence : The Untold Story of JonBenet's Murder and How Its Exploitation Compromised the Pursuit of Truth	Books	5	8	17	N	N	Damning account of the rush to judgement	I'm really appalled at the anti-Ramsey venom that has been spewed by my fellow reviewers.  Whatever happened to the presumption of innocence?  Unlike the OJ Simpson fiasco, where the blood and DNA evidence resonated his guilt, there is not ONE reliable shred of evidence tying them to this crime.  In fact, it is quite the contrary; foreign DNA was found under JonBenet's fingernails and a foreign pubic hair was found on her blanket.  While a pubic hair can perhaps be explained away, DNA evidence cannot.  As I have stated in other reviews, DNA and other forensic evidence doesn't lie, manipulate, or exaggerate.  But people can and do.<br />The Ramseys were unspeakably assailed when their daughter was murdered.  Given time and space, they could have begun to pick up the pieces of their shattered lives.  They have been denied both - victimised again by an ineptitude police force who covered up their incompetence with a smear campaign, and media vultures who have chequebooks (checkbooks) where the heart should be and who can ALWAYS be relied upon to make the news instead of reporting it.  Regarding the likes of Steve Thomas et al, while they are well intentioned, I believe they are also sadly misguided, and as far as I am aware, at the time of JonBenet's murder they were woefully inexperienced homicide detectives.  Any detective who infers guilt just from &quot;looking into someone's eyes&quot; should be laughed out of police work.  More reliable and certainly more credible are the insights and opinions of veterans such as Lou Smit and John Douglas.<br />It doesn't matter whether the Ramseys are likeable or not.  It doesn't matter whether they were rich or not.  A Colorado grand jury failed to indict them, citing &quot;lack of evidence.&quot;  What matters is that the media, not a jury, has already tried, convicted, and punished them.  What is truly frightening is that it isn't politicians who govern countries; it's the media.  It's not politicians who are powerful; it's the media.  We, the public, have given them that power.  That is something that matters.<br />But what matters most is that throughout all the hoopla, all the fiasco, all the lies and innuendoes, a sadistic killer has escaped detection, free to prey on more innocent children.	2001-07-03
US	49698724	R3IJEY0ZX6KUFN	078710339X	547323557	Nicole Brown Simpson: The Private Diary of a Life Interrupted	Books	1	152	175	N	N	YUCK!	This woman considered herself to be Nicole's best friend.  Poor Nicole.  Because if that was true, and this woman was Nicole's best friend, then I wonder what her enemies were like?  If the revelations in this book are true, then Nicole was nothing more than a bisexual man leach with who was kissed more times than the Pope's ring.  What kind of friend would write such a trashy and expoitative book, whether true or not, mere months after a friend's brutal murder?  What kind of friend would want to cash in on this terrible tragedy?  The money that Resnick was paid for writing this book is, in my mind, blood money. I hope she's happy. If this woman was a true friend, she would have fought for justice for Nicole with dignity, love, and compassion, and NOT write this garbage, which serves nobody and does nothing but bring more pain and sorrow to the unspeakably victimised.<br />It's bad enough that the so called &quot;Dream Team&quot; and her murdering ex-husband trashed Nicole so badly in the wake of the murders and during the criminal and civil trials.  But when this person was a so-called friend, it is just inexcuseable.  Poor Nicole.  I don't think she'll ever rest in peace.<br />For a glimpse of the real Nicole, read the things that her family has said about her.  And for a glimpse of the reality of her relationship with her murdering husband, read the book &quot;Raging Heart&quot; by Sheila Weller.  I wonder if book burnings are still conducted?  If they are, this one should be at the top of the pile.	2001-06-30
US	49698724	RBWOCIR7RFIRS	0878335307	927269582	Careless Whispers	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Award winning and you'll understand why	Kenneth Franks, Jill Montgomery, and Raylene Rice were three ordinary teenagers who had the misfortune to be in the wrong place at the wrong time and who paid for this mistake with their young lives.<br />Texas based true crime author Carlton Stowers weaves a sordid tale of mistaken identity, abuse, and sociopathology in this excellent tome about the tragic Lake Waco triple homicide in 1982, its investigation, and the shattered lives of the families of the three slain teenagers.  I have read two other books written by Carlton Stowers, and I am amazed at the empathy he feels towards the victims of violent crime and their families; while not outwardly doing so, his stories are a constant reminder that a homicide leaves many victims other than the dead person.<br />&quot;Careless Whispers&quot; also serves as a reminder that heroes can come in unlikely packages.  The hero of this case, if a story as dreadful as this can have a hero, is Waco policeman Truman Simons.<br />After a mere eight weeks, the investigation into these murders was shelved and effectively deemed unsolveable.  But they weren't unsolveable, and if not for the dedication and persistence of Truman Simons, this crime would, in all likelihood, STILL be unavenged.  Thankfully however, that is not the case.  <br />A gripping, frightening and suspenseful book, this is a must read, and the pages within literally shriek &quot;The horror!  The horror!&quot;  And when you finish it, you'll feel like shrieking this phrase too.	2001-06-30
US	49698724	R336NN3LDDJW59	0786002921	758534552	Beyond All Reason: My Life With Susan Smith	Books	5	15	24	N	N	She Should Never Have Had Children	Susan Smith is the cruellest person I have ever read about.  She drove her car into a lake with her two infant sons strapped trustingly in the backseat, then stood on the shore and watched it sink to the murky bottom.  She fabricated a story about an alleged carjacker to disguise her sole culpability in this crime.  She shed crocodile tears for her estranged husband, her family, friends, the police, the media, and the world, while her murderous secret remained locked inside her noxious heart.  She sentenced her boys to death and David to a life of grief.  She sits today in prison.  She will never on this earth suffer the consequences of what she did.<br />I started crying two pages into this book, and the tears flowed throughout every aching page.  David's pain and suffering is so tragically transmitted to readers that we can almost touch it.  But only almost.  It is so agonising, so raw, so heartrending, and so horrific, that if Susan Smith were in a room with me I would scream &quot;Why?&quot; repeatedly while pounding her body with my fists!<br />As I write this, there is a lump in my throat, my jaw is clenched, and the tears are welling up.  It is instinctive; I simply can't help myself.  I will never forget this story, this book, David, or beautiful and innocent little Michael and Alex.  Nor should anyone else.  Forgetting them would be like forgetting what it means to be human.	2001-04-23
US	49698724	R2CIDXXBJJJ6NT	0671025333	277781592	Empty Promises	Books	2	2	4	N	N	I am a loyal fan of Ann's, but................	I found this book to be unspectacular.  Usually I devour her stories in 2 to 3 days, but I put this one aside for a week, and when I resumed reading I had to force myself to plough through it.  Some of the cases described within are no more dramatic than a Saturday night drunken brawl in a sleazy bar.  Where is her usual saga of suspense, intrigue, and pathos, all of which are noteably absent here?  Accused by some of writing repetitively, this book is the opposite - veering away from the descriptive details contained in her other excellent works, details which are engrossing and interesting and suscitate the eternal &quot;Why&quot; queries that accompany the pondering of criminal behaviour.  However, in this instance, the only &quot;Why&quot; question you will ask will be this - &quot;Why did I buy this book?&quot;	2001-04-11
US	49698724	R18GQZB3BACGSY	0451403495	487248463	Blood Echoes: The Infamous Alday Mass Murder and Its Aftermath	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Where Reason Has Despaired	On May 14, 1973, six members of the Alday family were brutally slaughtered by a roving gang of brigands who were on the run from the law.  For their family and friends, however, that was only the beginning of their ordeal.<br />The surviving Aldays lost their farm.  With that, they lost their livelihood.  They lost their privacy.  They lost their innocence.  Most significantly, they lost their faith in justice.<br />They gained the attention of unfeeling authors and film-makers whose only intention was to exploit this horror in order to make a quick buck and a name for themselves.  These &quot;people&quot; made it possible for the smug, sociopathic Carl Isaacs to spew even viler invective upon this shattered family.  But Isaacs and his cohorts assailed the Aldays only once (and I use the word &quot;once&quot; VERY lightly indeed).  The inexcuseable judicial machinations of the American legal system has victimised this family repeatedly for the past 28 years.<br />You will shed many tears while reading this moving and disturbing dramatic work.  Tears of sorrow for the lost lives of the Aldays and their remaining loved ones, tears of anguish that this kind of atrocity can occur, and tears of frustration and rage over the continuing persecution that the Aldays have endured.<br />The inscription on Mary Aldays tombstone reads; &quot;Love can hope, where reason would despair.&quot;  In this case, reason is more than despairing.  In this case, reason is inconsoleable.	2001-03-31
US	49698724	R30VKQI52T9MEI	0743400526	349713140	She Said Yes: The Unlikely Martyrdom of Cassie Bernall	Books	5	10	17	N	N	The power of love and faith is eternal	There has been much debate and controversy surrounding Cassie Bernall's fateful confrontation with her killers.  But no matter what the truth in this instance may be, Cassie indeed said &quot;Yes.&quot;<br />Just a few short years before her tragic death, Cassie Bernall was in the grip of the demons that enveloped Harris and Klebold, hurtling them toward their unspeakable act of cowardice.  Through the timely intervention of her family, law enforcement, newfound friends, and most importantly GOD, a life full of bleakness transformed into an existence full of hope.<br />Therefore, whether or not Cassie said yes in the last seconds of her life is, in my mind, totally irrelevant.  For she had already said &quot;Yes&quot; to life, &quot;Yes&quot; to love, and &quot;Yes&quot; to the Lord when he knocked on the door of her heart, requesting entrance.  To her, &quot;God&quot; and &quot;Jesus&quot; were not simply profanities- rather, they were a loving presence in her life.  Accepting the love of God is in itself a remarkably courageous act.<br />Through this short but enlightening conduit, the Bernall family has transformed Cassie from an unfortunate victim of random violence into a girl of flesh and blood, not the martyr which the media has falsely characterised her as, but a typical teenager on the verge of adulthood who struggled with the same problems that you and I do.<br />This is not a book full of bitterness and anger.  The Bernalls don't just speak their faith; they live it.  Their love for the daughter who graced their lives for such a short time oozes from every page, and it is a wonderful thing to &quot;see.&quot;  (Well okay, if you want to be exact, to read).  They have not surrendered to the evil of this single, senseless, horrifying event.  Their hearts are shattered, and their lives will never be the same, but they are among the minority who have chosen to travel along the path of understanding.  This is highlighted in the expression of empathy towards the killers parents.  How many of us, even with strong faith, put into their situation, would or could feel that way?<br />Her early, horrible, senseless death has bestowed immortality upon Cassie.  You can't read this book and come away unaffected or unmoved.  It is a compelling drama, worth telling, worth keeping, and worth cherishing.<br />And to those who have the AUDACITY to state that this mother is cashing in on her daughter's murder, shame on you.  Misty Bernall never asked for this tragedy.  Given the choice, don't you think she would rather have her daughter back?  NO amount of money or publicity can EVER replace a precious human life.	2001-03-26
US	49698724	RBWJ4QI9D4UZQ	0060809485	660170534	The Other Side of the Mountain	Books	5	29	29	N	N	Remarkable story of hope	This memorable book is the definitve profile of courage.  It tells the story of Jill Kinmont, a talented downhill skier whose Olympic success was imminent until a terrible fall in Utah rendered her a quadriplegic.  But the true success of this book lies not with the representation of Jill Kinmont as a tragic heroine, but with the portrayal of her as someone whose commitment, dedication, drive, and determination have enabled her to succeed at life, despite the tremendous obstacles she has faced.  Her skiing ability is legendary, but it is as a person she stands tall. Her story proves beyond all doubt than when our bodies are at their weakest our spirits are at their strongest.<br />This is an amazing and memorable piece of work and will be cherished by those who believe in the immortality and infallibility of the human spirit.	2001-02-28
US	49698724	R3L7NNA8REE08O	0446363596	440723409	Bitter Almonds: The True Story of Mothers, Daughters, and the Seattle Cyanide Murders	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Did she act alone?	This offering by Seattle based true crime author Gregg Olsen is one of the best in its genre.  In meticulous fashion, Olsen subtly envelopes the reader into the life and crimes of convicted cyanide murderess Stella Nickell, her daughter Cindy, and the complicated and complex investigation which resulted in the first ever product tampering conviction in the USA.<br />Stella Nickell was a promiscuous party girl, but was she, as the FBI and the Seattle United States Attorney's Office believed, a cold blooded killer?  Olsen deloves expertly into the assuredly unpleasant background of Nickell in his own attempt to unearth the pathological forces that drove this woman, and it would appear that his own conclusions lean toward ambivalence and ambiguity - not so much in the case of Stella, but regarding whether she in fact was aided and abetted in her commission of these atrocities by her daughter Cindy, a woman uncannily similar to her mother in many facets of her own life.<br />After carnivorously devouring this book and enjoying it immensely, the reader will eternally be troubled by the one haunting question which still resonates almost 15 years after these murders - did Stella Nickell act alone?	2001-02-13
US	49698724	R3GJ46HBHF249C	0451201655	759016191	Pan Am 103: The Bombing, the Begrayals, and a Bereaved Family's Search for Justice	Books	2	7	8	N	N	Tends to grate after a while	When I initially began reading this book I felt compassion for the Cohens.  It is the same compassion that I feel for the many other victims of this bombing.  It is the same compassion that I feel for all who fall victims to tragedy.  But about halfway through my sense of compassion for these parents began to wane.  Their daughter was obviously a fine, beautiful young woman and they have every right to grieve for the rest of their lives.  But there is such a thing as dignity.  The Cohens use this book as an opportunity to vent a series of spiteful and mean spirited attacks.  Fine. Some of their targets deserve it.  But what is truly appalling (and what lost them my sympathy) is their attitude toward the town of Lockerbie and toward some of the families of the other victims of this disaster. <br />Hatred, vengeance, and bitterness are emotions that are more poisonous than cyanide.  And the Cohens certainly prove that.  <br />This is a book to avoid.	2001-02-07
US	49698724	R19VV54VNEVBGN	0312970315	191222248	Fatal Embrace: The Inside Story Of The Thomas Capano/Anne Marie Fahey Murder Case (St. Martin's True Crime Library)	Books	1	1	2	N	N	Boring boring boring	From the style in which this book is written, you would think that it was authored by a computer and not two respected journalists.  Instead of weaving a compelling narrative the authors spit out facts one after the other.  This case was full of suspense and intrigue, two things which are entirely lacking in this work and which are vital in any true crime story (even when the reader is familiar with the facts of the case) in order to pique the reader's interest, keep them guessing, and most importantly to keep them turning the pages. A far superior account of this case is the excellent &quot;And Never Let Her Go&quot; by Ann Rule.	2001-02-07
US	49698724	R2D686N59E7C8P	0446353124	217194933	Poisoned Blood	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Venomous!  Lethal!	This is the spellbinding true story of the life and crimes of Audrey Marie Hilley, a &quot;typical&quot; suburban Alabama housewife and mother whose life was an intertwined rope of secrets, lies, deceptions, and ultimately murder.<br />When her daughter Carol was stricken with an ailment that her doctors were unable to diagnose or even treat effectively, Marie Hilley seemed the epitome of a loving and concerned mother.   <br />But nothing was further from the truth.<br />For she had been calculatingly, cold bloodedly, and systematically poisoning Carol with arsenic for almost a year.  In a life filled with actions that are incomprehensible to the conscience driven person, this act of attempted murder was the most nefarious, heinous, inhumane, and demonic that any person, any woman, or any mother could have ever conceived or committed.<br />When the shocking truth of Carol's illness finally emerged, her relatives and law enforcement officials realised with dawning horror that this incident was likely not an isolated one.  Four years earlier, Marie's husband Frank had died after a short illness.  Doctors ruled that he died from natural causes.<br />Little did they know.<br />He too had been poisoned with arsenic.<br />This was not the end of the strange odyssey of Marie Hilley.  Arrested for passing fraudulent cheques and attempted murder, she skipped bail for three years, remarried, forged a new identity for herself as Robbi Homan, and fled to New Hampshire.  There, as &quot;Robbi&quot;, she faked terminal illness, staged her own death in Texas in what can be termed as a symbolic act of self destruction, and returned to New Hampshire masquerading as Robbi's twin sister, Teri Martin!  Due to the suspicions of &quot;Robbi's&quot; former friends and colleagues, this act led to her eventual capture.<br />In 1 of the best true crime books ever penned, author Ginsburg  weaves a shocking and sordid expose of a creature, that fortunately, is the rarest kind - a pure, 100% sociopath, a woman for whom the truth was an elusive commodity.  Like us, he seems puzzled as to the WHYS of Audrey Marie Hilley, and though this brilliant book is a painstakingly researched biography of her life and crimes, for the reader it evokes more questions than answers.	2001-02-02
US	49698724	R2S5PMME8VBXNG	0316341002	269971041	I Want to Tell You: My Response to Your Letters, Your Messages, Your Questions	Books	1	59	72	N	N	Lies, whole lies, and nothing BUT lies	This book is clearly the most narcissistic piece of FICTION ever printed.  The killer tells us about his glory days as a football player and his &quot;wonderful&quot; life with poor Nicole, conveniently omitting his no contest plea to spousal abuse and eschewing references to the 8 times Nicole called the police to settle their domestic disputes. But the most glaring omission in this trashy, exploitive book is a confession, a failure to spot the blood which will drip from his hands to the end of his offensive existence, and a complete blindness to his obvious guilt.	2001-01-04
US	49698724	R89QOKTOMINKZ	0446601543	695964005	Deadly Innocence	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great book about a demented duo of killers	This book is sick, twisted, and disgusting - and the blame for this cannot be laid at the feet of the authors as it is the fault of their appalling subjects.  Burnside and Cairns do a fantastic job in documenting the childhood, adulthood, courtship, marraige, and crimes of Paul Bernardo and Karla Homolka, whose fatal alliance led to the deaths of 3 innocent teenage girls.  Shockingly, 1 of these girls was Karla Homolka's younger sister, Tammy.<br />Addicted to their own sexual greed, consumed by perverted and sadistic lust, Bernardo and Homolka held the Niagara region of Ontario, Canada, in a trance of terror for the 2 years prior to their capture.  And form the subsequent trials emerged revelations emerged revelations so sickening that they stunned and mesmerised all who heard and saw them.<br />For this creepy couple had recorded on videotape the final, awful moments of their victims precious lives.  Included in this book are transcripts from these tapes, invoking thoughts and images so horrifying that they will never be extinguished from the readers minds.<br />This sordid affair is now but a graveyard of buried hopes, dreams, and opportunity, none more stark than those of Tammy, Leslie, and Kristen, whose powerful &quot;Deadly Innocence&quot; attracted the attention of this warped &quot;dynamic&quot; duo.  Sadly, these 3 girls not only lost their lives to the evil deeds of Bernardo and Homolka, they lost their identities as well.  Why?  Because when people remember these crimes, it is the names of the killers, not the identities of the victims, that will be remembered.	2000-12-21
US	49698724	R1WG1JSCQZYDWR	096227450X	72989861	Diane Downs: Best Kept Secrets	Books	1	8	15	N	N	Evil	is the best word to descibe this woman's personality.  This trash should offend anyone with a sense of morality, truth, and justice.  Most of all it will offend those who love children. If you are into ice floes and the flowers blooming and the birds singing and the sun shining, then read this garbage.  But if you want to take a fascinating journey into the mind of a demented sociopath, then this is a trip you won't want to miss.	2000-12-18
US	49698724	R3PUMJWAHFRQ0K	0312958250	88314081	Fatal Innocence: The Crime That Shocked the World-The Story of Two British Ten-Year-Old Killers and Their Three-Year-Old Victim	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Very disturbing indeed	In Australia, this book was tiled &quot;The Sleep Of Reason,&quot; and yes, that is what reason did on the fateful afternoon of 12 February 1993 - it slept, and it slept very soundly indeed, leaving us profoundly disturbed and scratching our heads and asking the perennial &quot;Why? questions that can never be answered.  Are, or were these boys evil?  Nobody can answer that for sure.  Surely a child of 10 knows that when you throw a brick at someone and it hits them, it will hurt.  Surely they knew that when you beat someone, blood will be shed.  And surely they must realise that when you attack someone and cause them to sustain the grievous injuries sustained by little James Bulger, a likely outcome is death?  So, my personal analysis leads me to the conclusion of evil, but that fact is really only for the sociologists and Sigmund Freuds among us to debate.<br />Totally unbiased, this is reporting at its highest level.  Smith describes the atmosphere in which the offenders were bred, their lives before they committed the crime, and the fatal cynergism between them which resulted in a brutal death for a 3 year old boy and a lifetime of grief for his anguished parents.	2000-11-01
US	49698724	R64ZEVQT63JS8	0671868713	966435098	And Never Let Her Go: Thomas Capano: The Deadly Seducer	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Bravo Ann!  Take a bow!	&quot;And Never Let Her Go&quot; is the gripping TRUE STORY behind the headline grabbing, heartstopping saga of murder and deciet that electrified the state of Delaware for almost 3 years.<br />Anne Marie Fahey was a sweet, beloved, hardworking young woman whose life seemed to be an open book.  But this outward confidence belied her inwardly deep rooted feelings of insecurity, which drove her into the clutches of anorexia nervosa and into a desperate and ultimately deadly affair with Tom Capano, a wealthy and prominent attorney and devoted father of 4 from a respected local family.  However, he too had secrets.<br />Embroiled in several secret illicit sexual liasions, Capano exercised the weapons of manipulation, domination, and control to force his paramours to behave.  When Anne Marie Fahey attempted to circulate beyond his sphere of influence, he destroyed her and dumped her body into the dark fathoms of the inhospitable Atlantic Ocean, turning a beautiful, loving human being into fishbait for the sharks to devour.<br />Once again, Ann Rule has proven beyond doubt that she is 1 of the few true crime authors in print who is capable of understanding the mind and actions of sociopaths - the thought processes and the complex mechanisms which drive these apparently &quot;normal&quot; people to act the way they do.  But what is most commendable about her literary efforts is her determination to tell the story of the victims, both the living and the dead.	2000-10-05
US	49698724	R3AJAIE01FTZDO	0671025341	899138358	A Rage To Kill and Other True Cases: Anne Rule's Crime Files, Vol. 6	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Ann's done it again!	That Ann Rule is held in such regard by the literary world (and this  probably includes non true crime authors) should surprise no one,  especially her legions of fans who await every latest book of hers with  baited breath.<br />In her 6th volume of crime stories, Ms Rule certainly  proves her writing talent is 2nd to none.  That she chose to write 10 short  stories may have surprised some of her followers, but she is able to tell a  story and draw conclusions in 20 or so pages, and how many authors have  that ability?<br />In all but 2 instances, the stories and killers she  profiles in this book most likely didn't even receive a radar blip in the  media.  America is a country where so many murders are committed, and  sadly, only the goriest and most bizarre rate a mention in the media.  But  Ms Rule, a woman who doesn't seek out the sensational, a woman of great  empathy and compassion, gives these stories a chance to be heard and  discussed.  She enables all the forgotten victims an opportunity to have  voices.	2000-08-30
US	49698724	R3AZWQHGGB8XMA	0446310786	994527755	To Kill a Mockingbird	Books	5	3	4	N	N	It's a sin	Not to like this book.  Harper Lee's semi autobiographical Pulitzer Prize winner is a superb account of bigotry and injustice set in 1930's Alabama  as viewed through the eyes of children.<br />The hero of this moral fable is  lawyer Atticus Finch, who sets the small town of Maycomb ablaze with  controversy when he agrees to defend Tom Robinson, a crippled Negro who is  accused of raping a white woman.<br />But this isn't just a story about Tom  Robinson.  It's also a coming of age story, a story which blatantly  illustrates the fact that we learn something new every day, and that we  must never judge situations or people by appearances.  Tom Robinson, a  simple, hardworking Negro, is judged by the colour of his skin, and by the  oft held assumption that ALL Negroes lie, that ALL Negroes are evil and  dangerous, that no white woman is safe around a Negro male.  And Boo  Radley, the subject of decades long gossip and innuendo, is judged by the  children - Jem and Scout Finch and Dill Harris - as being a bogeyman, a  malevolent being who has dedicated his life to the pursuit of evil.  Yet,  unbeknown to them, he is their secret benefactor, and someday he shall  literally save their lives.<br />Disappointingly, this is Harper Lee's only  novel.  But then, any follow up to this superlative effort would surely  have been inferior.  It's hard to believe that Lee was an adult when she  wrote this - her ability to describe the world and its idiosyncracies as  seen through the unjaded, uncynical perspective of a child is one of the  most memorable and enduring pieces of literature ever penned, provoking  thoughts in the reader like &quot;What is truth?&quot; and &quot;What is  just and right?&quot;	2000-08-29
US	49698724	RBYGHVLIVC9NS	0671880314	156284675	Schindler's List	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Sad story about real courage	Oskar Schindler was a drinker, a gambler, an adulterer, a war profiteer, a Nazi sympathiser - and a hero.  During what is undoubtedly the darkest  chapter of human history, in a time where a person would sell off their own  grandmother to the Gestapo, his selflessness enabled the lives of 1500 Jews  to be saved, and indirectly, he saved many more lives - the children,  grandchildren, and greatchildren of &quot;his&quot; Jews are alive today  because their ancestors were fortunate enough to have their names on his  list.<br />You can't help but contrast him to the likes of Adolf Eichmann, who  protested during his trial that he had no choice but to do what he did, he  was a soldier who was &quot;only following orders.&quot;  Schindler too,  had a choice, and his choice and its consequences are lovingly chronicled  in Kenneally's book.<br />That he had the courage to make this choice is a  point that should never be forgotten.  And neither should Oskar Schindler.	2000-08-28
US	49698724	RWIT7RQKIZRNE	0060183454	689010179	The Carpenters: The Untold Story : An Authorized Biography	Books	5	37	42	N	N	What a wonderful gift she had	To outsiders, it seemed as if Karen and Richard Carpenter were living a dream.  And they certainly seemed to have it all - looks, wealth, fame,  fans, and an abundance of talent that has gone almost unrivalled in 30  years.  Critics from the era and hard rock fans dismissed them, labelling  them  with phrases such as &quot;Squeaky Clean,&quot; &quot;Too Good To Be  True,&quot; &quot;All American,&quot; and many, many others.  But  appearances can be deceiving.<br />Richard had a drug dependency (the  substances he abused were legal, by the way) which almost cost him his  career and could have ended his life had he not been rehabilitated, and for  7 years Karen was in the terrible psychological grip of a then unknown  disease - anorexia nervosa, a disease which ravaged her emotionally as well  as physically, in an identical manner to the fashion in which cancer and  AIDS ravage their victims.  But despite their personal troubles and  turmoil, the Carpenters music remained beautiful, enriching, and  touching.<br />With the exclusive co-operation of Richard and Agnes Carpenter  and their family and friends, entertainment writer Ray Coleman describes  the Carpenters adolescence, their rise to fame, their years at the top,  their legendary music, their struggles and Karen's ultimate tragedy in a  way that is objective, emotional, and touching, painting a sad portrait of  a beautiful woman who never realised how beautiful she was, a beloved woman  who never knew how much she was loved, and a famous woman who worked in a  corrupt and CORRUPTING industry but never lost her down to earth morality  and values, whose greatest wish was to have a family of her own, a wish  that sadly, she would never obtain.  But if Karen's story achieves  anything, I hope it is this - that it may save the lives of other anorexia  sufferers.  Surely that is what Karen herself would want.<br />It is now 2000,  30 years after the Carpenters debuted.  Their records are still being  bought, their songs listened to and admired while the artists and critics  who deplored them have long been forgotten.  Finally, their talents are  being acknowledged - Richard is praised for being the great musician that  he is, a superior producer and arranger with an unparalleled ear for  quality and timelessness.  And Karen's voice, that haunting, gorgeous  voice, is recognised as being one of God's greatest gifts to music.	2000-08-18
US	49698724	R3OV2L1U20K382	0609803883	309317424	Diana: The Last Year	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Shows her the way she was	While Andrew Morton's &quot;Diana Her True Story&quot; and &quot;Diana Her New Life&quot; chronicled the Princess's unhappy life in the Royal Family  prior to her 1996 divorce from Dumbo Ears (sorry, Prince Charles), Donald  Spoto's account describes her life post divorce until her tragic and  untimely death. In the process he highlights all the aspects of her  character, both good and bad, that caused the world to fall in love with  her forever.  This is a great tribute to you, dear Diana.  May you rest  eternally in peace.	2000-08-16
US	49698724	R2HHU6QLSB1SAL	0671017047	663397504	Obsession: The FBI's Legendary Profiler Probes the Psyches of Killers, Rapists, and Stalkers and Their Victims and Tells How to Fight Back	Books	5	21	23	N	N	Indecent Obsession	Yet another classic expose of the sadistic sociopath written by the man who knows them best - John Douglas.  In this book, John meticulously  describes 2 types of obsessions - the obsessions of the sociopathic sex  criminals who prey on society, and the obsessions which drive law  enforcement officials who, very often risk their own safety and sanity in  order to capture these monsters and bring about justice.<br />Throughout his  quarter century in the FBI, John gained valuable knowledge.  He learned how  serial offenders &quot;profile&quot; their potential victims to test their  vulnerability.  He learned what ruses they employ to lure unsuspecting  victims away from areas of safety.  And as he graphically illustrates in  the tragic stories of Jennifer Levin, Katie Souza Hanley, and Stephanie  Schmidt, he learned how sometimes we can unfortunately place our trust in  the wrong person, a person who is quite literally &quot;a wolf in sheep's  clothing.&quot;<br />So instead of speaking disparagingly about John, we  should realise that we have cause to be grateful to him. He has such great  insight into the minds of these human demons, and because of his lecturing  and writing, he has undoubtedly saved many lives.  We should thank him in  any way possible - one day his experience and insight might help save our  own life or the life of a loved one.  He has given us valuable advice about  how to keep ourselves and our children safe.  He has showed us how we can  turn profiling to our own advantage, how we can use it and our own survival  instincts to keep ourselves safe.  Undoubtedly this type of knowledge is  certainly just as important as the knowledge of how to perform adequate,  life saving first aid treatment.	2000-08-16
US	49698724	R3M0Q7HO191U2S	0028613406	336925347	Killing Time: The First Full Investigation into the Unsolved Murders of Nicole Brown Simpson and Ronald Goldman	Books	1	22	41	N	N	A Waste Of Time	For all the time and energy the authors expended on this silly book, you would think it would have been better, and surely there are other subjects  out there that are more worthy of an in-depth investigation like this is  purported to be.  There is no riddle to this story.  Simpson's guilt is  obvious.  And how does one know this?  The answer is simple, and it's a  little word called DNA.  It proved Simpson's guilt beyond a shadow of a  doubt, but for some incomprehensible reason those who stubbornly cling to  the ridiculous notion of Simpson's innocence continue to ignore this fact.   DNA and other forensic evidence doesn't lie, exaggerate, or embellish.  But  people can and do.	2000-08-16
US	49698724	R2PKKUXCIMHJFJ	0753504707	946627094	Diana: The Last Days	Books	5	14	21	N	N	It's about time.	This is the book that finally shows the Diana/Dodi murder and conspiracy stories to be what they are - complete figments of the imaginations of  Mohamed Fayed and his minions.  Mr Gregory had access to Diana's friends  and the bodyguards who shared her final vacation with Dodi Fayed, and with  their help he sheds the true light on the relationship.  Why would anyone  want to murder them when the relationship hadn't even lasted for 2 months  and gave no indication that it would lead to marriage?  And who would  choose a car accident to commit murder when it's the most inefficient way  of killing, since we have no control over the laws of physics which govern  car accidents?  I commend the author for having the courage and common  sense to write this book, since he, and I, seem to believe that some people  would see sinister conspiracy plots in 2 people planning to go grocery  shopping together.	2000-08-14
US	49698724	REX43BTWLAH5N	0312973624	566519970	Monica's Story	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Only he who is without the first sin	Should cast the first stone.  I can't believe how tough the media and  fellow reviewers are on Monica Lewinsky.  While not condoning her actions  at all (in fact I strongly disapprove of extramarital relationships and the  people who choose to have them)  she has been punished for them far, far  more than what she deserves, and people seem to forget that Bill Clinton is  hardly blameless either.  Hopefully being caught with his zipper down will  make him change his ways!  But we are all human, and we all make mistakes  and do and say stupid things, only most of us are lucky enough NOT to have  the world sitting in judgement upon us!  What right have we to pass  judgement on the actions of another?  Only murderers and rapists forfeit  their rights not to be judged.  Let's all get on with our lives and let  Monica live hers.	2000-08-09
US	49698724	R35K1SOJF75GQ4	0671001132	127006476	Dead by Sunset	Books	5	7	8	N	N	I HATE Brad - but I LOVE Ann!	Ann Rule has written over 17 books, and she has this astonishing ability to write every one of them in such a way that the readers, no matter how  far away from the locales where the events took place (after all, Australia  is QUITE a ways from Portland, Oregon!) will feel that they are actually  there, she writes in an understated way that enables the readers to feel  compassion for all the principal characters in her books(including the  criminals), and most importantly, she writes her stories in a sensitive  fashion which is at the non exploitive end of the spectrum.  Not all true  crime authors write like this, and they should.<br />Here, in describing  Bradly Morris Cunningham, a handsome, charming, seemingly rich and  sophisticated man who would be a prime catch for any woman, Ann is at her  best again.  For Brad Cunningham was none of those things except handsome  and charming, for these 2 qualities enabled him to lure into his web of  deception smart, professional women.  Rich?  No, he lost millions of  dollars in shady business deals.  Sophisticated?  No, he was a boor.  He  was also a misogynistic, cruel, self centred sociopath who thought nothing  of using and abusing everybody, be they male OR female, who had the supreme  misfortune of coming into his orbit.  Like a true sociopath, he gave  nothing, but took and took and took, and when a sociopath is tired of  someone or something, they will discard it, and they don't care if they  have to commit murder to accomplish that.  And that is exactly what Brad  did to Cheryl.  She gave him status, money, and 3 lovely sons, but when she  could give him no more he murdered her and dumped the vehicle which  contained her corpse onto a freeway, hoping that it would cause a major  accident that would conceal the homicide.  <br />But like most sociopaths,  Brad Cunningham screamed, ranted, and raved during his trial in 1994 which  also served as his unmasking.  And he was finally given the gift that he  didn't want,but which Cheryl's survivors did, and that was the gift of  justice.	2000-08-08
US	49698724	REGYLDM5ULZK9	0451162188	684016650	Blind Faith (Signet)	Books	5	51	52	N	N	Wrenching saga of lust, greed, murder, and betrayal.	Joe McGinniss's excellent follow up to &quot;Fatal Vision&quot; is one of  his best yet.  &quot;Blind Faith&quot; takes us into the home of Rob and  Maria Marshall and their 3 sons, a family in the &quot;Leave It To  Beaver&quot; mould whose idyllic life was the envy of all who knew them.   But the tragic murder of Maria in September 1984 revealed a twisted  underbelly of asociality where the life of a beloved daughter and loving  mother could be traded for a sum as measly and paltry as 1.5 million  dollars.  Joe McGinniss slowly draws the reader in to the complicated  investigation which is littered with people who seem to be direct from the  central casting of an Alfred Hitchcock film as the police and the district  attorney quietly and resolutely hunt down their quarry - Maria's  &quot;loving&quot; husband, Rob Marshall, who in court was finally revealed  for the avaricious and cunning sociopath that he is. Although this tragic,  cautionary tale transports the reader on a  journey into the dark side of  the American dream which will haunt us long after the last page is  finished, the true success of this book lies with McGinniss's depiction of  3 grieving boys who went from initially believing totally in their father's  innocence to finally angrily acknowledging his guilt.	2000-08-08
US	49698724	R17MUQ5K2DSSOH	0671009605	97912414	Evidence Dismissed	Books	5	41	47	N	N	Hard to stomach.	This book isn't hard to stomach because of bad writing style or anything  in that vein.  It is hard to stomach because it describes, in detail, all  the extremely incriminating evidence WHICH POINTED TO NO ONE BUT SIMPSON  that was found by the detectives in this case and the Los Angeles Police  Department which, inexplicably, was not raised by the prosecutors EVEN ONCE  during the trial.  This book proves Simpson's guilt beyond ALL doubt,  showing that had ALL this evidence been displayed before the jury in the  criminal joke (it's an insult to courtrooms and the hallways of justice  throughout this world to call it a trial) then Simpson would have  undoubtedly been convicted.  But most of all, &quot;Evidence  Dismissed,&quot; like Vincent Bugliosi's &quot;Outrage&quot; proves once  and for all that the TRUE blame for the loss of this case can be laid at  the feet of the prosecution.	2000-08-07
US	49698724	RECXBCTW7XY9E	0345413679	744892925	Journey to Justice	Books	1	11	27	N	N	How does he sleep at night?	I tried to read this book with an open mind, but I felt sick after the first two pages, so I did what I always do when reading a book by an author I don't like - I put it down and vowed to read no more of it. I don't care what Johnnie's past is or how he has helped minorities receive justice for the undoubted cruelties and prejudices they have had to endure, because his defense of OJ Simpson in the so-called trial of the century was immoral and unethical. Race was not and should never have been an issue in the Simpson case, because it was not a racially motivated crime. The only way in which race factored in this case was that Simpson, a black man, murdered two unfortunate white people. It's totally laughable, isn't it, that with all the money Simpson was paying these lawyers (or should I say liars) the defense couldn't refute the highly incriminating scientific evidence, instead they had to resort to ridiculous theories of frame ups and conspiracies. I wonder if Cochran actually believes the drivel that he spouted with all the fire and brimstone of a Southern Baptist preacher? I also read an article recently in which he displayed sympathy for Bill Cosby upon the murder of his son. How compassionate of him, since he couldn't have cared less about Lou Brown or Fred Goldman and their families. It's a pity that I borrowed this book from the library, for it's winter here now and it would make such great fodder for a fire. The Goldman family's opinion of Johnnie Cochran is the most salient, and in my mind, the most accurate.	2000-07-28
US	49698724	R1RE0SVPXGP0GQ	0671521454	53354000	Raging Heart: The Intimate Story of the Tragic Marriage of O.J. and Nicole Brown Simpson	Books	5	29	40	N	N	True story of a doomed union	This great book is a warts and all expose of the tragic, twisted relationship that began in 1977 and ended in June 1994 when Simpson slit his ex-wife's throat on the steps of her townhouse.  You feel as if you are  a part of the couple's inner circle, watching the events that led up to the  tragic, brutal murders of Ron and Nicole unfold, and you want to jump into  the book and yank Nicole away from her pig of a husband who did not deserve  to be married to the fine, beautiful, and caring woman that she obviously  was.  Although Sheila Weller offers no physical evidence of Simpson's  guilt, her description of the unhealthy, obsessive bond between this  egomaniacal man and this poor, sweet, unfortunate woman leads the reader to  believe that OJ Simpson was the only person on earth who had the motive and  the reason to commit these murders, and we all know that OJ Simpson IS  guilty of these heinous crimes.	2000-07-28
US	49698724	R1F654P5BOVF95	0440217547	233589845	Accident	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Better than Danielle's other drivel	Having read some of Danielle's other books, (and not being much of a romantic at heart) I was disinclined to read this one.  However, when I picked it up I was pleasantly surprised at her depiction of how one  senseless act can throw a whole family into chaos.  How many women have had  cheating husbands who betray their trust?  How many parents have had to  endure a months long hospital vigil when one of their children is injured  or ill?  And finally, how many people experience miracles and learn to love  again?  Plenty!  That is where Danielle succeeds in this book - with her  portrayal of ordinary people who not only endure catastrophic events, but  survive them.	2000-07-14
US	49698724	RRUY8PNI46XY7	0671867636	338149803	The Riverman: Ted Bundy and I Hunt for the Green River Killer	Books	5	20	23	N	N	Reveals the true evil of Ted Bundy	If you are a fan of true crime books, then you will, of course, have heard the names Bob Keppel and Ted Bundy.  You will know that Ted Bundy was a sadistic serial killer whose cruelty knew no bounds, and you will know that  Bob Keppel is the dedicated homicide investigator who initially spent half  a decade hunting Bundy, and who, later in his brilliant career, spent many  years tracking an even more elusive quarry than Ted - the Green River  Killer, who, needless to say, has avoided capture to this day.  <br />Keppel  draws the reader into both of these investigations in an excellent fashion,  as his writing abilities more than equal his detective skills.  You will  feel as though you are ploughing through the underbrush  beside the  volunteers in Issaquah and Taylor Mountain, searching for the remains of  Bundy's innocent victims.  You will feel his frustration at not being able  to bring the Green River Killer to justice, and finally, you will sit  beside him as he hears the final confessions of Ted Bundy, who revealed to  Keppel the horrible truth about his sadistic perversions in the hope of  winning a stay of execution, in the process exploiting his victims and  their families once again.<br />I can't recommend this book enough.  We all  criticise homicide detectives for not being able to solve all the appalling  murders that are thrown their way, and here, Keppel describes the sheer  persistance and hard work that these investigators put into their jobs, and  how they receive very little in the way of rewards or credit as a result.   The details of the Bundy and Green River investigations show Keppel as a  fine, sympathetic human being - he seems torn between a detective's need  for answers and the true revulsion he feels when he finally obtains them,  especially when he is hearing, at long last and after so many years, Ted  Bundy's descriptions of how he committed some of his numerous murders.  You  will wish that there were more hours in the day to read this book, and  undoubtedly, you will read it during the day with all the doors and windows  locked and the lights switched on!	2000-06-30
US	49698724	RNZK9NOPKVXWF	0517705435	895116312	The Cult at the End of the World: The Terrifying Story of the Aum Doomsday Cult, from the Subways of Tokyo to the Nuclear Arsenals of Russia	Books	5	5	6	N	N	I can sum this book up in two words - totally unbelievable!	If this story was to be written as a novel, the only suitable genre would be science fiction, for that is how amazing, otherworldly and fantastical this tale is.  The authors leave no stone unturned in this extensively  researched missive about a group of inhumane terrorists masquerading as  harmless members of a Buddhist cult.  After devouring this book (since that  is what I did) one will probably realise that as dangerous as Jim Jones and  David Koresh were, compared to Asahara and his league of demented  adherents, they were Santa Claus, the Tooth Fairy, and the Easter Bunny  combined into one entity!  Kaplan and Marshall inform us that we can no  longer afford to exist in a Philistine society - we must do everything in  our power to rid the world of impious religious cults where man is  worshipped instead of God, and they draw much needed attention to a very  frightening, yet little known fact - that with the advent of highly  sophisticated firearms and biological weapons, which are inexplicably  becoming more and more accessible to lay people, if World War Three does  occur, it is most likely to be started by a group of terrorists similar to  the fanatical Aum Supreme truth religious cult - people who say they  worship all life and this planet, then spend millions of dollars in an  attempt to destroy it.	2000-06-28
US	49698724	R1REIJMNCD5UX2	0671003941	751665010	Journey Into Darkness	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Where is the ego?	I disagree with those who believe John is egotistical.  I don't see that at all.<br />He was an FBI agent for 25 years. In the late 1970's he became a profiler. He's heard tales of torture and murder that are so horrendous that they defy description. He's sat across a table, numerous times, from some of the vilest human beings imaginable. He's seen sights that would make your stomach turn. For years, John was the sole profiler in his unit, working alone on over one hundred cases. When, I ask, did he have the time to become egotistical? And, as he has admitted, his talents are unable to provide the details of a suspect's identity, they can only help focus a police investigation. <br />Throughout all this, he gained valuable insight into the minds of these monsters that some people might call human beings. Yet he's never lost his own sense of humanity, for his feelings of compassion for the victims and anger at the offenders are quite palpable. He's very honest and pulls no punches in his analysis of the sexually sadistic personality. Perhaps the people who think him egotistical can't handle this honesty. And he's absolutely correct - those who choose, for their own vile and selfish reasons, to take another person's life SHOULD pay with their own.<br />I found the chapters on how to protect children from becoming victims to child molesters or infinitely worse species than that, and by this I mean child killers, particularly valuable. I don't have children, but if I do, I'll be following the information he gave on this subject right down to the last letter. Children are our greatest international treasures and it's up to every adult, not just parents, to keep them safe from sexual predators.	2000-06-28
US	49698724	R37MT545NJSN6B	0451403444	311945549	Blood Games (Signet)	Books	2	14	15	N	N	Not one of Jerry's best	Having read &quot;Cruel Doubt&quot; and being an avid fan of Jerry's books, I ordered this book from America as it is unavailable in Australia.  It took six weeks to arrive, and when I read it, I was disappointed, as the  boring, repetitive narrative is extremely irritating, and unlike his other  stories, in this book, Jerry's writing style is poor and he fails (for the  first time in his true crime writing career) to draw the reader into the  story.  I am still a loyal fan of Jerry's, but I would recommend to anyone  who wants to read about the Von Stein case to  skip this book and instead  purchase &quot;Cruel Doubt&quot; by Joe McGinniss, which is far superior in  its portrayal of the facts.	2000-06-28
US	49698724	R2YFZHSC5LX7H4	0140259775	615847506	Without a Doubt	Books	1	25	43	N	N	A pain in the neck	This is a whining, snippish, shallow, put the blame on everybody else  book written by a woman who seems to possess all these qualities and then some!  Her attempts to explain why critical evidence in this case  (especially the police interview with Simpson the morning following the  murders and the contents of Cowlings Bronco after the slow speed chase) was  not introduced are self serving and weak, since apart from the DNA and  blood evidence, they were the strongest links in the chain of extremely  incriminating evidence which pointed to NO ONE BUT SIMPSON.  As for the  Mark Fuhrman issue, by virtually ignoring him and hoping he would go away  instead of fighting this underhanded defense tactic with every breath in  their bodies and every weapon at their disposal, she and the other members  of the prosecution HELPED the defense turn the trial into a racial issue.   <br />You can't put the blame for the not guilty verdict entirely on the  shoulders of the jury, Marcia.  You must take a look in the mirror and  acknowledge your own responsibility.  You didn't fight for justice in this  case as hard as you should have.  You gave up way too soon, and you let the  rest of the DA's office down, the state of California down, right thinking  people down, the Brown and Goldman families down, and most of all, you let  Ron and Nicole down.	2000-06-28
US	49698724	R248Q1GG5D90OJ	0671024124	88681578	Diana: Her True Story in Her Own Words	Books	5	59	67	N	N	Good, but definitely one sided	This book has been called &quot;the longest divorce petition in history&quot;, and when you read it, you would have to agree with that statement.  But what you have to remember is that at the time when Diana  agreed to co-operate with Mr Morton, she was feeling sad, lonely, and  unhappy, but she was never allowed to express that publicly.  She was  unhappy with her life, unhappy with her royal image, and most of all,  unhappy with her marriage, yet she couldn't do what anyone else in that  situation would be able to do - she couldn't visit a local solicitor and  obtain a divorce. Poor woman, she couldn't even go to the gym without being  followed by a throng of photographers.<br />When this book was published in  1992, it was dismissed  by the establishemnt as being a pack of lies, but  ultimately they, and the public too, discovered that it wasn't when Charles  admitted his infidelity with the redoubtably ugly and gauche Camilla Parker  Bowles, and when, in her astonishingly frank Panorama interview, Diana  candidly shared the harrowing details of her eating disorder, bulimia.   <br />This book succeeded on many levels.  It certainly exposed the shocking  truth about the Royal marriage and portrayed the Royal Family, for the  first time ever, not as cherished icons but as ordinary individuals with  more than their share of character defects (and this means Diana, too!)   But it ultimately succeeded in its portrayal of an immature twenty year old  girl, who won the hearts of the world when she kissed the Prince, only to  have him become a toad, to the beautiful, compassionate symbol of kindness,  caring, and humanity that she was when she was so tragically snatched away  from the world.  For it was the publication of this book that enabled Diana  to seek a new life for herself, and in doing so she developed the character  traits that enabled us all to fall in love her, this time more completely,  again and again and again.	2000-06-25
US	49698724	R2N0OA8K0IEW7T	0312969333	761064560	Death of a Princess: The Investigation	Books	5	0	2	N	N	The five stars are only for what the book proves	While this book was written too quickly after Diana's death and the authors didn't have a lot of the facts at their disposal, it proves one thing - that the deaths of Diana and Dodi were only an ACCIDENT!  Come on  people!  Who is going to murder the Princess of Wales in one of the safest  vehicles on the planet, and what secret agency in their right mind would  use a CAR ACCIDENT to kill somebody?  Let's be logical here - there ARE  more efficient ways to commit murder!	2000-06-18
US	49698724	R1486DDHFIOGLR	0312925883	804599282	Not Without My Daughter: The Harrowing True Story of a Mother's Courage	Books	5	2	7	N	N	What people endure for freedom	For Betty and Mahtob, what began as a two week family vacation with their husband and father ended in Turkey eighteen months later after an exhausting and terrifying journey through some of the harshest terrain on  the planet.  With each step taken toward their quest for freedom they  risked their lives, but, after having been forced to exist in a culture  where women are treated as second class citizens and where they would not  be able to experience the freedom of choice (within boundaries, of course)  to which every individual is entitled, they each knew that it was a risk  that they would have to take.  If the real definition of the word heroism  is choosing the right path despite great danger and adversity, then Betty  and Mahtob are heroes.  They were prisoners, and what prisoner who longs  for his or her freedom would not act in a similar manner to them in order  to attain it?  To those who denounce this book as racist, I would have to  disagree, for how else would Betty and Mahtob have gained their freedom if  it hadn't been for the actions of several courageous Iranians?  They, and a  host of their fellow countrmen, are, I feel, depicted very positively in  this story, as they should be.  &quot;Not Without My Daughter&quot; weaves  a rich tapestry of descriptive detail of life in a third world country  which most Westerners will never be able to experience firsthand.  I felt  as though I was at school with Mahtob and going to the market with Betty as  she struggled to obtain the little amenities which we Westerners take for  granted.  That is where the success of Betty's storytelling lies - with her  full and exacting accounts of daily life in Iran.  But most of all,  &quot;Not Without My Daughter&quot; is a moving account of the power of  maternal love, and what a mother will do if that love is threatened.	2000-06-17
US	49698724	R2JNBOCJMXOW5K	0140309578	442586948	Pippi Longstocking	Books	5	60	64	N	N	I have loved Pippi for nearly twenty years!	I read my first Pippi Longstocking book in 1983 when I was eight years old, and although I'm now twenty five, she still makes me laugh.  She is such a free spirit - she lives alone except for a horse and a monkey, says  what she thinks, does whatever comes into her mind, no matter how  ridiculous it is, she can laugh at herself, and she enjoys life.  But the  reason why I hold her in such regard now I'm an adult is that although she  says and does whatever her heart desires, it's never done at the expense of  anyone else's feelings.	2000-06-17
US	49698724	R3QGOYE3D104G1	0679751319	190478568	Dead Man Walking: The Eyewitness Account Of The Death Penalty That Sparked a National Debate	Books	2	15	46	N	N	Keep on killing them!	I have been reading true crime stories  for over a decade, and after reading over one hundred of these books I became a staunch death penalty supporter.  This book was presented to me by someone who disagreed with me,  who thought that reading it might change my mind.  It hasn't.  Sister Helen  is obviously a very dedicated individual and I commend her for her passion  and respect her views, like I do anyone else's, but I feel that she is  simply wasting her precious time with these inmates, time that could better  be spent with children to ensure that they themselves don't wind up on  death row one day.  These vile, inhumane creatures chose to do what they  did, so let them suffer the consequences.  If one of the consequences is  death, so be it.  If they are prepared to take someone else's life, then  they should pay with their own, and it is about time that the rights of the  innocent victims of crime and potential victims are placed ahead of the  predators.	2000-06-17
US	49698724	R3LCXROGZ4GIQ8	0553213148	444133547	Anne of Avonlea (Anne of Green Gables, Book 2)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A sequel which is as good as the orginal!	In this, the second story of the Anne series, we become reacquainted with Anne and her friends, and we are introduced to many fascinating new characters who either make her feel like tearing her hair out or enrich her  life.  Although she is now sixteen and a fully fledged schoolmarm, she  still displays the irrepressible knack for getting into scrapes that she  had as a child, which include falling through a roof, dying her nose a  ghastly colour, losing her temper with the irrascible Mr Harrison, her next  door neighbour, and sowing the first seeds of love with Gilbert  Blythe.<br />Millions of readers around the world are forever thankful that  Lucy Maud Montgomery wrote several more books about Anne's escapades, for  if she hadn't, we would forever be wondering what would have become of  Anne, asking ourselves what kind of teacher would she have been like, would  she have gone on to university, would she have married Gilbert Blythe and  borne his children?  When we contemplate asking ourselves these questions,  we would perhaps feel amazed that a mere literary character has had such a  profound effect on our lives.  Then perhaps, after doing all this, we would  then return to our bookshelf, pick up a story about Anne, read a few pages,  and then we would know for sure why we have fallen eternally in love with  her.	2000-06-17
US	49698724	R1TRLUO67XCWC	0451166884	368946078	The Want-Ad Killer (True Crime)	Books	4	7	11	N	N	Worth more than three stars, but isn't a five star effort	Documents the life and crimes of serial sex slayer Harvey Carignan, who, if it had not been for an inexcusible flaw in the justice system, was freed to wreak havoc and terror on unsuspecting teenage girls and women. This  story certainly makes you wonder which side the law is on - the convicted  felon's side or the innocent victims and potential victim's side, and you  will question whether the laws really do work.  In this case they didn't,  and because of this, women and girls who today would be alive are long dead  and long forgotten, except by their families and friends. It also documents  the genesis of one of the most well respected and influential victim's   rights group in America today - Families and Friends of Missing Persons and  Violent Crime Victims.  This group was started in 1976 by four women, one  of whom  who had lost her own teenaged daughter to Harvey Carignan's lethal  brutality, and is still continuing its important work a quarter of a  century later.	2000-06-16
US	49698724	R2MU8C217ICDYN	1928704115	91078060	The Only Living Witness: The True Story of Serial Sex Killer Ted Bundy	Books	5	18	27	N	N	The final justice was the best justice!	There have been many volumes published about Ted Bundy over the past twenty six years, but this outstanding book written by two experienced investigative reporters stands the tallest.  Why?  Because of their  compassion for the victims and the fact that they haven't included the  exact graphic, lurid details of Bundy's devastating carnage in order to  increase book sales.  This book isn't exactly light reading, nor is it fun  to read, but for young women like myself, it is a NECESSARY read.  The  messages it contains will save many lives - it could even save our own.   One can also guess that Bundy's reasons for co-operating with the authors  Michaud and Aynesworth weren't exactly altruistic either, for, locked away  from vulnerable would be victims, exposed for the monster that he was,  Bundy must surely have experienced great pleasure during his  &quot;speculation&quot; sessions, because it was during these that he could  fantasise and happily relive each of the brutal murders that he committed.   Anyone who says that capital punishment is barbaric will surely have their  opinions changed after reading this book, for the electric chair was  exactly what Bundy deserved.  You also have to wonder what good things his  victims would have achieved had their lives been allowed to continue.	2000-06-16
US	49698724	R1ORYBK3BVO8LM	0671793535	644017062	A Rose For Her Grave & Other True Cases (Ann Rule's Crime Files)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	A tour de force!	I am an avid fan of Ann Rule who awaits her every new book release with baited breath.  This book did not disappoint me.  It tells the story of an avaricious misogynist whose complete lack of empathy for others left two  innocent women dead, two children orphaned, and countless others  emotionally scarred for life, all because they had the supreme misfortune  of crossing the path of a man who wished to use, abuse, and discard them  like worthless garbage.  When Randy Roth wanted something, it mattered not  one iota to him that others would be hurt in the process of him acquiring  it.  The rights of others never factored with his reasoning, and underneath  his charming exterior lay the heart of a man so cruel, so malicious, and so  selfish that he couldn't even bring himself to weep &quot;crocodile  tears&quot; after the deaths of his wives.  This story of a modern day,  Seattle based &quot;Bluebeard&quot; is powerfully brought to life thanks to  Ms Rule's talent at exposing the details of the deviant mind.	2000-06-16
US	49698724	R9EF41JEW1YCM	0451521129	444133547	Anne of Green Gables	Books	5	1	1	N	N	An absolute classic	When I was a child, I voraciously and raptly read the entire &quot;Anne&quot; series cover to cover many, many times, and I can honestly say that growing up with her and reading about her adventures gave me the  greatest pleasures of my childhood.  At first, I didn't want to read this  book - it was given to me as a present by my mother when I was 11 years  old, and what 11 year old wants to do what their mother tells them to do?  But when I started reading it, it attracted me like metal filings to a  magnet.  Such is the power of Anne Shirley.  She won my heart in the same  way that she won the hearts of Marilla and Matthew, and I often wonder what  my childhood would have been like without her.  I can't praise this book  enough, and although I'm now 25 years old, I still get an unearthly sense  of joy, fulfillment and pleasure every time I read it.  It is a true  classic that will forever be cherished in the hearts of all individuals who  read it.	2000-06-15
US	49698724	R11M9J0Z7WJ6ID	0786010630	799488921	Cruel Sacrifice	Books	1	11	14	N	N	A cruel book about a cruel crime	This is the kind of book which gives true crime writing a bad name, indeed I feel that this book is a mere tabloid version of the Shanda Sharer murder case, only it is longer than most tabloid papers.  Ms Jones spends too much  time delving into the undoubtedly unsavoury backgrounds of Loveless and  Tackett, yet shamefully devotes precious few pages to the victim, Shanda,  or her family, and what little space that is devoted to Shanda depicts her  as a twelve year old tramp who deserved to meet the horrific fate that she  did! A much better book about this case is &quot;Little Lost Angel&quot; by  Michael Quinlan.  Skip this book written by Ms Jones and read Quinlan's  book instead.  It's much better value for money and is written in a far  more even handed and compassionate manner.	2000-06-12
US	49698724	R10K74IH9VXFVT	0671726684	953527051	Until the Twelfth of Never:  The Deadly Divorce of Dan & Betty Broderick	Books	5	8	12	N	N	Every woman should read this book	This extremely well written and extensively researched book highlights many injustices - the unfairness of the legal system, that power and money can buys special privileges, and the fact that women and children, because  of the famous &quot;no fault&quot; laws, usually receive a raw deal in  divorce courts.  <br />This book, however, while mentioning all of the above,  mostly outlines the story of a woman who absorbed so much of her husband's  identity that she was left without one of her own.  Betty's personality was  so enmeshed with Dan's that when he deserted her, she not only lost him,  but more significantly, she lost all of her psychological resources.  To  me, above the money, the property, and the children, that is what the long  and bitter struggle between them was all about.  Because she never had a  strong sense of identity of her own, it is easy to see why she descended  into madness and why she destructed in the way she did.  In a way, the  murder of Dan was almost symbolic - her personality was still so enmeshed  with his, even four years after he left her, that maybe when she killed  him, she committed psychological suicide.  Who knows?  One can only wonder  how differently this tale might have turned out had Dan not carried the  clout that he did and if he and the legal system in which he operated and  in which he was held in such high regard treated her more fairly.  For she  was wronged, both by Dan AND the legal system, until the bitter end.	2000-06-11
US	49698724	R3LXECDOVDM5KG	0553574353	741841636	Helter Skelter: The True Story Of The Manson Murders	Books	5	7	8	N	N	The most frightening book ever written	I recently saw members of the Manson &quot;family&quot; interviewed on television, and I have no doubt that the remorse displayed by Leslie Van Houten and Patricia Krenwinkel is real, and that they now see the reality  of what Manson was and still is, but I also have no doubt that they owe  society a great debt, and must stay in prison for the rest of their  lives.<br />But Manson?  Manson is a different story.  I don't get scared  easily, but because he remains so paranoid and because of his virulent  psychopathology, he is a truly frightening individual, and &quot;Helter  Skelter&quot; is the best assessment of his life, psyche, and crimes ever  written.<br />&quot;Helter Skelter&quot; is a blow by blow account of the  gruesome Tate/LaBianca murders written by the man who, as the prosecuting  district attorney, had the disturbing job of being forced to immerse  himself in this grisly case for over two years in order to convict the  killers.  As a result, no one knew, and indeed still knows, the intimate  details of this story better than Vincent Bugliosi, and that is why there  was no one better qualified to write this book.  It is a compelling story  which is almost too horrific to be true, but the blood, gore, and savagely  mutilated corpses testify to the harrowing sadness of the reality that  these crimes really did occur.  Indeed, no horror movie could be as  frightening, as gory,or as disturbing as the Manson murders, and this book  paints a compelling and graphic portrait as to why the perpetrators of  these crimes should never be paroled from prison.	2000-06-11
US	49698724	R238GNWGUV30UI	067100669X	497900237	Tears of Rage	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Very, very raw	America first became aware of the plight of missing and murdered children through the TV movie &quot;Adam&quot;, but the movie, excellent though it was, only outlined the story and didn't tell it in its entirety.  In this  book, John Walsh speaks frankly about his family's tragedy and their never  ending, heartrending grief, but most of all, it chronicles their  determination not to let Adam die in vain, and the various ways in which  they have worked to achieve this, most importantly by using their son's  example to save the lives of countless thousands of other children.<br />All  violent crime damages people, and it is a marvellous testament to the  resilience of the human spirit that two people who have been damaged in the  worst way, can become knights and use their loss and their pain as weapons  in the fight , not only for children's rights, but for the rights of all  crime victims everywhere.  <br />Besides being a long overdue story of the  impact of violent crime on victims from a victim's perspective, &quot;Tears  of Rage&quot;, through the many salient messages it delivers, will  undoubtedly save the lives of many more children, both now and in the  future - and that would make Adam, as he looks down from heaven, extremely  happy.  God bless him, and God bless his parents.  They all deserve it.	2000-05-26
US	49698724	R1854VONKXAUWP	0671775391	105401731	Cruel Doubt	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Spooky!	After Lieth Von Stein was murdered and his wife Bonnie was attacked in their bedroom by knife and club wielding bandits on a hot summer evening in July 1988, the ensuing police investigation and courtroom drama would  reveal that it was the bloody climax of a fantasy game which had begun  several weeks earlier in the hallways of North Carolina State University.   To the young men who partcipated in this game, it was not merely fiction or  fantasy, but reality, as real as the three million dollars that they would  have gained if both the Von Steins had perished in the attack.  It was this  game, along with the lure of that easy money, that was the catalyst behind  Lieth Von Stein's brutal murder, turning what appeared to be a  &quot;routine&quot; family murder into one of the most frightening and  bizarre cases ever to appear before the American judicial system.  Author  Joe McGinniss draws us into this story with his precise, succinct narrative  in much the same way as the participants were drawn into the deadly  &quot;Dungeons and Dragons&quot; scenarios.  This is a superb read and I  highly recommend this book to anyone who doesn't mind a few sleepless  nights!	2000-05-25
US	49698724	R5ZGADAGCUU90	067169071X	87217686	Everything She Ever Wanted: A True Story of Obsessive Love, Murder, and Betrayal	Books	5	11	12	N	N	A steel magnolia!	Pat Allanson liked to think of herself as a modern day Scarlett O'Hara, and it's true that she and Scarlett did share some characteristics - seductiveness, flirtatiousness and charm, but Pat had none of Scarlett's  extraordinary strength or backbone.  Instead, she was, and remains, a self  centred sociopath who would do anything and destroy anybody who obstructed  her from gaining whatever she wanted.  <br />Fifteen years of her husband  Tom's life, her daughter's health, and for her victims, precious time with  their loved ones were sacrificed to the greed of this antisocial woman,  who, thanks to her too kind upbringing and lack of parental discipline,  thought that she was entitled to &quot;everything she ever wanted&quot;  without once thinking about the repercussions of her actions on other  people.<br />If this story was to be presented as fiction, it would be  dismissed as being the product of an author's sick and twisted imagination,  but Ann Rule proves in this extraordinary book that it is not imaginations  which are sick and twisted, but what truly IS twisted, sick and utterly  incomprehensible is the malignant mind of a sociopath.	2000-05-24
US	49698724	RXWQVP3077AH8	0871137356	396854460	Victim: The Other Side of Murder	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sad but thought provoking	&quot;Victim&quot; is a masterpiece of the true crime genre, for it was the first book to ever describe in painstaking and intimate detail the enormous physical, psychological, and financial traumas that are enforced  upon the survivors of violent crime, and it exposed, also for the first  time, how these survivors are often victimised again by an uncaring justice  system where the rights of the accused always seem to come before the  rights of the victimised.	2000-05-24
US	49698724	R312SC5ULCVEVM	0553577123	636860937	The Diary of a Young Girl: The Definitive Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Sublime and heart rending.	More than just a historical document, Anne Frank's diary stands not only as a tribute to her but as a tribute to all those who lost their lives so wantonly and unnecessarily during World War Two.  I wept while reading it,  for her teenage hopes, dreams, and frustrations mirrored my own, and I wept  because her dreams for the future never came to fruitition.  One of Anne's  wishes was that she should continue living after her death, and thanks to  this diary, her memory will never fade, and her spirit will live on in the  hearts of those that cherish this book for centuries to come.	2000-05-17
US	49698724	R1H7666XGY8MYT	0446527750	204741724	The Bodyguard's Story: Diana, the Crash, and the Sole Survivor	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Not just an insipid Diana book	In the aftermath of the appalling death of the Princess of Wales, the media and many of the key players of this saga have burst forth with stories like molten lava erupting from a fierce volcano, none more  insidiously than Mohammed Fayed (he doesn't deserve the honourary  &quot;Al&quot; prefix) and his cronies.  Yet the one person MOST directly  affected by this accident kept his silence - until now, and you have to  admit, it is refreshing to hear his voice.<br />In this book, Trevor recounts  the events of that fateful summer which preceded the collision with the  thirteenth pillar in the Alma tunnel, how he has coped with the fame  imposed upon him through no fault of his own and under such horrific  circumstances, and the steps he has taken to rebuild his life and his  face.<br />He has been helped to do this by his caring family and legal team,  while his ex-boss, desperate to distort the truth of the crash and the  relationship between Dodi and Diana into a decidedly self favouring slant,  has shamelessly exploited Trevor during the most vulnerable period of his  life.<br />Strength of character in times of adversity is an admirable trait,  and the strength displayed by the Rees-Jones's is even more astonishing  when you consider that they had to display it whilst under the world's  spotlight.  What caring and dignified people they are - and it seems that  these characteristics are as sparse in Mr Fayed's make up as the hair is on  his balding pate.  He has immense stature in the financial world, but in  the real world, the ordinary world, it is the Rees-Jones family who stand  tall.<br />Good luck to you Trevor.  May you eventually fade back into the  anonymity you desire and deserve.	2000-05-17
US	49698724	R3HMIYXXQQ30A1	0440223822	842292252	Outrage: The Five Reasons Why O.J. Simpson Got Away With Murder	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Boy, is he mad!	If you, like me, were angry, angry, ANGRY about the outrageous, erroneous, and foul verdict in the killer's (like the Goldman family, I never speak the man's name) criminal trial, then this is the book for you.  If however, you believe that the verdict was proper................then I suggest that you learn the meaning of one little word - DNA, which demonstrates that the killer is absolutely, 100% GUILTY!<br />Although he's now a defense attorney (cough!), Vincent Bugliosi's name is easily recognised by true crime fans and readers.  For he, of course, was the young lawyer who shot to fame as the prosecutor largely responsible for the convictions and imprisonment of the so-called &quot;Manson Family&quot; whose Tate/LaBianca murderous crime spree shocked the world in 1969.  And what self respecting true crime reader does NOT have a copy of &quot;Helter Skeleter&quot; in his or her library?<br />Up until the Brown/Goldman murders, the Manson saga was labelled &quot;The Trial Of The Century.&quot;  Perhaps it's no mere coincidence that Vincent Bugliosi was fated to be involved in both.  It's doubtful that any other prosecutor had the drive, dedication, and persistence of Bugliosi in 1969, 1970, and 1971.  For though he was knee deep in information and speculation, his prosecution was rapier sharp, direct, no nonsense, informative, and unambiguous.  And so is this book.  In the second paragraph of this book, he states simply &quot;Simpson committed these murders.&quot;  And you know what?  He's right.<br />One can almost visualise Bugliosi punching the words into his computer as he typed this book - for it simply drips with anger and indignation.  He's angry at everyone who contributed to this awful verdict - the jurors, the defense attorneys, the killer, the media, and most of all the prosecutors.  He's angry at the jury for ignoring the DNA evidence and believing the defense's smoke and mirrors routine.  He's angry at the defense attorneys for their unethical injection of bogus racial and police frame-up issues into the trial.  And he's particularly angry at the prosecution for their failure to introduce extremely incriminating key evidence into the trial, for their failure to properly counter the bogus issues raised by the killer's lawyers, for their anaemic opening and closing arguments............and well, just for their inexcusably poor performance in general.<br />And you know what?  By the end of the book, you'll share his fury, because it's completely contagious.  <br />If only Bugliosi had prosecuted this case and had Daniel Petrocelli as his his co-counsel.  If they had, we all know where the killer would be now...................and it wouldn't be on the golf course.	2000-05-05
US	49698724	RX5B53SZ22LE1	0787109177	56633314	Madam Foreman: A Rush to Judgement?	Books	1	34	41	N	N	This book is so bad it doesn't deserve a review title!	This is a pathetic and weak attempt written by the OJ Simpson jurors to excuse the outrageous and incorrect verdict that they arrived at after only three hours of deliberation.  It demonstrates the unfortunate fact that even the jurors, who were supposed to be impartial, were clearly biased  against the prosecution from day one of the trial, and their IQ's match an  anorexic's dress size!  Discounting all the other evidence, the DNA alone  should have convicted SImpson, since it doesn't inject fraudulent issues  into a trial, isn't overwhelmed by its own celebrity, and has no ulterior  motives or hidden agenda, yet it was damningly and inexplicably ignored.   And I was amazed to read the statement of one of the jurors in a post trial  interview that the DNA evidence carried no weight with her!  The DNA  evidence was as irrefutably tied to the Simpson case as Santa Claus is to  Christmas.  I wonder how these jurors can live with themselves, knowing  that Simpson is a murderer, and deciding that these murders should go  unpunished.  How could they attend a post trial victory party, hosted by  that slime Johnnie Cochran, knowing that because of Simpson, Ron and Nicole  are forever lost to their families?  Do they ever think of Ron and Nicole  at all?  Do they think about their last moments alive?  I do.  Does the  particularly gruesome crime scene picture of Nicole, lying folded in the  foetal position, her head haloed by a large pool of blood, which looks like  blotches of red paint splashed randomly onto an artist's canvas, haunt them  at all?	2000-05-03
US	49698724	RQAHOH11CU16T	0821758551	245398573	Murder in Brentwood	Books	5	10	13	N	N	The story behind the story-the only TRUTHFUL story!	I am in the minority of people who have respect and admiration for police officers.  They put their lives on the line so that law abiding citizens can feel safe, and as a reward, they work far too many hours for far too little pay.  Mark Fuhrman was a  detective that any law enforcement agency  worldwide would have been proud to have on its ranks, and he, instead of  the vicious murderer Simpson, and the liars Cochran, Scheck, Shapiro, and  Bailey, has become a criminal.  The vicious attacks they perpetrated on  Fuhrman were just as brutal as Ron and Nicole's murders, and Fuhrman, like  the two victims, had nowhere to run and nowhere to hide.  Even more  shamefully, the attacking defense team was aided and abetted by the  prosecution!  This book proved to me without any doubt that the only thing  Mark Fuhrman was guilty of was doing his job too well.  Although Mark has  lost a twenty year career as a police detective, his loss is our gain, as  the world has now gained another fine crime writer.  This book, and Vincent  Bugliosi's &quot;Outrage&quot; are the only books about the Simpson case  that will ever be a part of my true crime collection.  They line the top of  my bookshelf, while Clark's and Darden's books line the bottom of my dog's  cage, since that is the only place where they belong!	2000-04-27
US	49698724	R2NIU60S02GE8R	0684803763	133073868	Mind Hunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Not all monsters are fictional.	The power of the mind is truly awesome, and that fact is superbly demonstrated in this book.  Mr Douglas and his team are a group of people, who for many years, have used brains and not brawn to capture criminals by delving into the minds of the evil creatures masquerading as humans, while  fighting a constant battle to maintain their own sanity.  He also feeds us  with enough vital information about his most memorable cases to keep us  interested, yet thankfully spares us the gruesome details of torture, rape,  and murder, which would surely induce nightmares.  John graphically  illustrates to us the frightening reality that there are many wolves in  sheep's clothing in this world, and acknowledges the sad fact that although  he and his team are blessed with extraordinary powers of ESP, that even the  most persistent hunters can be outnumbered by the most deadly kind of  quarry - human predators.  I strongly advise all prison psychiatrists and  psychologists to read this book, as I feel it would give them greater  insight into the types of individuals that they would recommend  re-releasing back into society.	2000-04-23
US	49698724	R2GU1YB3QFI2FY	0451402103	992416414	Bitter Blood: A True Story of Southern Family Pride, Madness, and Multiple Murder (Onyx)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Family ties are the ties that bind.............and kill.	This is a superbly crafted account of the hideously tragic events perpetuated by two deranged individuals whose final act of suicide also took the lives of the two most innocent victims of all.  The two killers,Fritz Klenner and Susie Lynch, can best be described as each being  like a truck without brakes - out of control, mercilessly annihilating  everything in its path, and showing, in Susie's case, that even the most  beautiful and abundant of trees can beget sour fruit.  No other author  could have described the pathological obsessions that drove these two  family scions in such a methodical, to the point, uncompromising, yet  surprisingly unprejudicial way as Jerry Bledsoe.  If I could have, I would  have given it ten stars.  Fantastic!	2000-04-23
US	49698724	R88NZY8W2NPBG	0451406095	924693661	Before He Wakes: A True Story of Money, Marriage, Sex and Murder	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The church lady............the killer	Yet another classic from the pen of Jerry Bledsoe.  This book recounts the shocking story of Barbara Stager,a woman who was an agent of the devil, yet who appeared to be a model of Christian virtue by shrouding herself and her life with hypocrisy.  She cold bloodedly murdered two sleeping husbands,  not out of anger, or jealousy, or self defense, but out of the unquenchable  greed that her own desperate desires had wrought in her, wickedly and  calculatingly placing a price tag on the heads of both of these unfortunate  men who each made one fatal mistake.  An actress of Oscar winning ability,  she was then able to convince many people around her of her innocence, but  she couldn't convince the people who mattered the most; the police, the  district attorneys, and most importantly, the jury.  With this masterpiece,  Bledsoe again proves that only he and Ann Rule are the true pioneers of the  true crime genre.  Another ten star effort.  Chilling!	2000-04-23
US	49698724	R20EH7AUQ7GEUC	0684803763	133073868	Mind Hunter: Inside the FBI's Elite Serial Crime Unit	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Not all monsters are fictional.	The power of the mind is truly awesome, and that fact is superbly demonstrated in this book.  Mr Douglas and his team are a group of people, who for many years, have used brains and not brawn to capture criminals by  delving into the minds of the evil creatures masquerading as humans, while  fighting a constant battle to maintain their own sanity.  He also feeds us  with enough vital information about his most memorable cases to keep us  interested, yet thankfully spares us the gruesome details of torture, rape,  and murder, which would surely induce nightmares.  John graphically  illustrates to us the frightening reality that there are many wolves in  sheep's clothing in this world, and acknowledges the sad fact that although  he and his team are blessed with extraordinary powers of ESP, that even the  most persistent hunters can be outnumbered by the most deadly kind of  quarry - human predators.  I strongly advise all prison psychiatrists and  psychologists to read this book, as I feel it would give them greater  insight into the types of individuals that they would recommend  re-releasing back into society.	2000-04-23
US	49698724	R2HDKKMLHICDZG	0451166604	824428233	Small Sacrifices: A True Story of Passion and Murder	Books	5	5	5	N	N	A modern day Greek tragedy	If you have ever been in a large cathedral, you may have noticed a stained glass window depicting the Virgin Mary smiling benignly as she gazes with love down at the mortals who behold her  serene image.  Diane Downs had the  same Madonna smile.  But unlike the Virgin Mary, who sacrificed her son to  save all mankind from sin, Diane sacrificed her children in a desperate  attempt to regain the affections of her married lover, who had deserted  her.  In the first few pages of the bible, the list of the 10 commandments  that God gave to Moses are displayed.  Diane had her own version of these.   &quot;Thou shalt not worship anyone but me&quot; &quot;Thou shalt not covet  anyone but me&quot; and so forth.  When Lew failed to abide by these  tenets, Diane committed the ultimate act of evil - the shooting of her  children.  For the two most evil deeds in the world are the murder of a  child and the destruction of a child's innocence, and  Diane committed both  of these.  In this book, the author does not take an express journey  through the mind of a sociopath to whom the needs of others were secondary  to her own, but stops at every station and gives an in-depth analysis of  the scenery surrounding it.  Some sad stories do have a happy ending -  Christie and Danny are now thriving.  Christie has completely recovered  from her wounds, and after graduating from the University of Oregon, now  works with children.  Danny attends a college outside of Oregon, and is a  member of the swimming team - however, he remains paralysed from the chest  down.  God bless them both.	2000-04-16
US	49698724	RLIXQFVUDY9WU	0671769200	659856831	If You Really Loved Me	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Reading it makes you feel like you're on a weird drug trip!	Although it is hard to believe, I feel that David Brown is just a sadistic a sociopath as Ted Bundy was, although, unlike Bundy, he did not commit  murder with his own two hands.  He violated the trust of a daughter in her  father and with the sly wiliness of a cunning fox, manipulated her into  committing the one deed that can never be undone - the act of murder.  With  lies and false promises, he turned his teenage sister-in-law into his  lover,until she was so blinded by adoration for him that she reached the  point where she conspired to kill her own sister and then concealed the  true reason for the murder's commission afterward.  The author takes us  into the mind of a man whose selfishness, inhumanity and plots of murder  did not stop with the slaying of his young wife, but merely started with  it. With this book, Ms Rule does a fantastic job  delving into the ocean of  immorality.  It's a deep ocean, so I would advise readers to bring some  SCUBA gear.	2000-04-16
US	49698724	R148KJZV0EA131	0671884689	445604417	LITTLE LOST ANGEL	Books	5	7	11	N	N	A powerful indictment of today's  permissive society	Shakespeare's play &quot;Macbeth&quot; had three witches, this story has four.  But while the witches in &quot;Macbeth&quot; were interesting characters, the witches Loveless, Tackett, Rippey, and Lawrence committed a  horrific act that not even a playwright of Shakepeare's genius could have  devised.  These fictional witches stirred a cauldron of food and water,  while the four witches of this story ignited a cauldron of grief and  despair for Shanda's family and friends which will never simmer down.  How  ironic it is that one of their stops on that fatal night was the witches  castle.  If they are ever released from prison, they should take up  residence there.  This book emphasises the yawning gaps between some  parents and their children, and graphically depicts the tragedies that  ensue if these gaps are not bridged.	2000-04-16
US	49698724	R1NDEBFE0950OW	067179356X	738560506	In the Name of Love: Ann Rule's Crime Files Volume 4	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Who murdered Santa Claus?	This is not only the story of an avaricious sociopath, it is also the story of a woman who, for almost eight years, experienced and survived adversity most of us cannot even begin to imagine.  This woman lost almost  everything that mattered to her, but not for a moment did she lose hope,  courage, or the sense of right and wrong.  The villains in this saga  possessed none of these values, and to those who say that this book is not  objective, I will tell them that it is hard to be objective when you are  writing about the senseless murder of such an obviously kind and generous  man that most of us would have been proud to know.	2000-04-14
US	49698724	RJ2LWSU5VO4YG	0451165667	399084864	Fatal Vision	Books	5	24	31	N	N	The man in the surgical mask	Dr Jeffrey MacDonald presented to the world the face of a charming, sensitive healer, but behind this mask was an arrogant individual who, from the time the murders were committed in 1970 until his final appeal was  rejected in 1985, tried his utmost to avoid punishment for the horrific act  he perpetrated. This story stands as a monument to the laudable persistence  of MacDonald's parents-in-law, who refused to give up their crusade for  justice until MacDonald was convicted, and the souls of his wife and  children were finally at peace. It is also a tribute to the experts who by  sheer talent and technology have advanced the field of forensic science to  the degree where it is now viewed as indisputable evidence. This is by far  McGinniss's best book, as his in depth analysis of the case also compels  the reader to reach a guilty verdict. It is my wish that this man will  never be paroled to administer his &quot;deadly medicine&quot; on a new  generation of patients.	2000-04-14
US	49698724	R21KRIY30PYHCG	0451404297	263167900	Till Murder Do Us Part	Books	5	3	4	N	N	The WRONG arm of the law!	This is an extemely tragic case which chronicles the despicable actions of a truly diabolical individual.  How so much evil can be concentrated into one man defies comprehension.  A portion of the blame concerning the lack  of resolution to the murder implications surrounding this man must surely  lie with his kinfolk, since like a Mafia family, they have taken a vow of  secrecy.  Their co-operation with the authorities seems to be grudging and  minimal, with little compassion shown toward the many victims.  The best  ticket ever written in the life of Robert Fioretti was written when he was  sentenced to a substantial prison term.  I was also surprised to read that  even the infamous mob boss John Gotti, on whose orders many man have been  executed, was as deeply offended by this wife beater, child molester,  murderer and thief as all decent human beings are.  Fortunately, in the  end, Robert Fioretti, who once enforced the law as a police officer,  eventually had the law enforced upon him.	2000-04-14
US	49698724	ROLKTVK5YS5QW	0451164938	652993826	The Stranger Beside Me: Revised and Updated Edition	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Bone chilling and thought provoking	This is the book which launched Ann Rule's career as the doyenne of true crime writing, and it is easy to see why.  What started out as just another &quot;story&quot; for Ms Rule became a journey of horror, as she came to  recognise the seductive, horrifically destructive side of a man she thought  she knew well - Ted Bundy.  Rule draws us into this tragic saga with  incisive, careful writing and probing analysis into the crimes, mind and  motivations of a sociopath.  What makes this such a compelling book is not  only the author's fabulous writing, but her heartfelt compassion for the  many victims, both living and dead, and although he is undeserving of it,  compassion for Bundy himself.  In my opinion, the most haunting question  that has arisen from this book is: &quot;How can we stop individuals from  becoming the kind of sly, silent killer that Ted Bundy became?&quot;	2000-04-14
US	49698724	R2Y6BUIUX6G7H2	1565925971	33630456	The Nicholas Effect: A Boy's Gift to the World	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Tearjerking, but full of hope	There is a verse in the bible which reads &quot;Do not be overcome by evil but overcome evil by doing good.&quot;  Reg and Maggie Green have embraced this creed wholeheartedly.  When their beautiful son was senselessly  murdered in late 1994, instead of sinking into the depths of grief, they  proved how well he had taught them about the power of love during his brief  time on earth by using his example to save millions of lives around the  world.  If such a tragic thing were to happen to me, I hope that my actions  would be identical to theirs.  I thank Reg and Maggie for sharing little  Nicholas with the world and I am sure he would be very proud of them (as we  all are).  Through their unselfish and life affirming actions, they have  proven yet again that the power of good will never be overcome by the power  of evil.	2000-04-14
US	49698724	RDDYMKJ6GNYDQ	044021792X	546720514	Snake and Spider	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Suspenseful	This is a harrowing book.  The naivete and innocence of Daryl and Jim is in sharp contrast to the violence and viciousness of the two predators.  This story makes a powerful case for parents to warn their children to be  careful of people they know nothing about and children not to be too  trusting of people they meet.  Kingsbury skillfully balances the suspense  of the investigation with the desperation, grief, and anguish of the  parents.  Perfectly paced, this book masterfully demonstrates the  frightening fact that there are many snakes and spiders in this world - and  they don't always live in the wilderness.	2000-04-13
