US	49699718	R35B9203KDNSTQ	037570759X	702212284	The Coming Anarchy: Shattering the Dreams of the Post Cold War	Books	4	8	8	N	Y	Will Anarchy for Others Mean Tyranny for Us?	To read Kaplan's 1995 The Coming Anarchy is to be enveloped in withering realism, the consequences of which are both the loss of idealism and the embracing of real solutions. While the book has its damning portions, these are folded within an over-arching sense of reality, an author begging us to both recognize the disparities that exist between the \\"haves\\" and the \\"have-nots\\" and the consequences to allowing these incongruities to build until their consequences roll over the industrialized \\"haves\\" around the world. Kaplan makes this argument without succumbing to the rampant liberal idealism which seems to be the only opposing voice to today's dominant neo-conservatism. What is interesting, perhaps even compelling, in his argument is the willingness to acknowledge the limits to both liberal idealism and conservative free-market enthusiasm.  <br /> <br />I have two over-arching questions to Kaplan: first, we absolutely must learn from our history, but must we not also challenge ourselves to adapt and grow from these most painful and provocative of moments? I was left feeling that a certain amount of definable determinism had crouched into Kaplan's analysis, which while obviously very real, begs the question of whether an argument wholly couched in realism holds the potential, in any discipline, for advancing the human cause. I hold out little hope that man can ever entirely escape his most base of natures, but I do believe in progress in science, religion, law and politics. The profound difficulty in this systemized humanism is that it must take into account the organic psychology of humans versus the repeatable coldness of science.  <br /> <br />My second question to Kaplan is closely related to the first, namely whether his emphasis on realpolitik is genuinely a worthwhile means to justifiable ends. Somewhere within his argument I needed better clarification on where real good, right and true things matter enough to be fought for. Kaplan is right (and wholly so inmy opinion) to argue that history begs us to realize the limitations to democracy and the dangers of a luxuriating democracy that has lost a definable enemy against which to sharpen and test themselves. I found this portion of his book most compelling: Kaplan believes, as do the eminent ancient Greek historians we would do well to wrestle with now, that when democracies are at their epoch they become social systems within which the individual is focused almost extensively on their own well being. Kaplan goes a step farther arguing persuasively that this narcissism is an almost inevitable prelude to tyranny. I was chilled at reading this because it parallels so closely my own thoughts on the lengths we would be willing to go to in the interests of protecting our own well-being. What we value most is no longer any democratic ideal, it is our consumerism. What would we be willing to accommodate were we to find this threatened?  <br /> <br />Kaplan's analysis is gritty with realism, and in its realism it does a better job deconstructing options than presenting ones around which we can center limited resources to pursue seemingly unlimited needs. Towards the latter part of the book and prior to fully embracing Kissinger's realpolitik Kaplan does propose three options he believes should guide foreign policy. First, that foreign assistance be specifically targeted towards those issues that will allow a country to stabilize, in his words \\"programs that seek to slow societal deterioration gradually.\\" As simple as this sounds it should be an idea internalized by religious outreach programs that seek first to \\"save\\" people rather than embrace those fundamental social issues that would benefit the most (but here we find the inevitable disagreement between the spheres of religion and secularism as to what is in fact most beneficial). For those who, in response to this point, would argue that this type of investment is the role of the government Kaplan would agree and simply respond that \\"...[this foreign aid] would not be targeted at making a particular country democratic in the face of a low literacy rate, the absence of a middle class, and a history of ethnic or regional strife.\\" (page 122) Because our government (in particular Reagan and Bush conservatives) focuses on the belief that democracy is the answer without sufficient dialogue on what is required to make democracy thrive (something we probably do not understand well enough ourselves to share with others who have none of our shared history), we fall prey to the limitations of a noble ideal couched in conservative's equivalent to nave liberal idealism. <br /> <br />The second suggestion from Kaplan is \\"early warning.\\" Kaplan states \\"Some equate pessimism about the Third World with cynicism. In truth, pessimism is often both a realistic and a moral response: we should be scouting for trouble, not indulging fond hope.\\" (page 123) This is a statement that provides a keen insight into his belief that we can and should help, but only if we have at the core of our motives a desire to do good within the reality of the situation. Kaplan never argues for us to stick our head in the sand, on point of fact, his first chapter develops the limousine metaphor where the industrialized nations of Western Europe, America and certain parts of the Pacific-Rim are inside and the balance of the world (the vast majority - 95% of all population growth post 1994 were born and live at or below UN poverty levels) are outside the limo in absolute squalor. Kaplan believes it is nave to think this disparity will not ultimately impact those inside the limo. Yes, it will impact us last. But it will impact us and probably in a more pronounced fashion than we wish to appreciate. <br /> <br />The last guideline on foreign aid Kaplan presents is that intervention should be almost a last resort. His argument here is, I believe, best seen as the stipulation that when we choose to intervene we must do so for the right reasons in the right way because if we do not, the realpolitik he so readily acknowledges is the guiding force in humanity will preclude action when action is most needed. This is wisdom. This is worth building a philosophy of engagement around. <br /> <br />This book cost me much of my liberal idealism, but I am the better for this as I am closer to the goddess of wisdom, that much sought after ability to discern the right thing to do in what may seem to be equally damaging options. Kaplan is easy to read and easy to comprehend, but the consequences of his arguments are damning if we do not choose to reverse the tide of consumerism pervasive in our culture. It is interesting to me that in the Christian country of America where religion is held to so strongly by so many people that the fundamental poverty of spirit and belongings that Jesus taught is what is most out of reach. This is where religion can and should have a voice - it should be helping us all find a peace that can not be found in possessions. If tyranny lies at the other side of a republic gone astray, we would do well to remind ourselves what forces are the driving power behind our politics. This is why empowered grace matters, this is why fundamentalisms have to be fought against, not graciously placated.	2005-04-14
US	49699718	RIUHFG9LTM1C5	0787975923	499133737	The Last Word and the Word after That: A Tale of Faith, Doubt, and a New Kind of Christianity	Books	5	67	84	N	Y	A fitting end to a worthy journey.	Brian McLaren's newest book, The Last Word and the Word After That, is a superb final book in his New Kind of Christian trilogy. My only regret is that the series is over; however, I hold out much hope that this trilogy will continue in other forms as the trilogy parallels his own spiritual development through the use of story. What I love about McLaren is his willingness to write about his doubts and the areas where he has divested himself of American evangelical thinking. What I get frustrated with McLaren about is that he seems to stop short of what the logic of his various arguments would require (his treatment of the Canaanite genocide in A Generous Orthodoxy is one such situation). But here I have to see the beauty I want others to see in me as I wrestle with my own doubt: I want those more mature or simply more gracious to let me wander, to encourage my seeking, and to love me while I go on my journey. I hope so much that he will continue to write about his spiritual journey, realizing that he is making more friends than he is losing, that he is touching lives the church has done a poor job of reaching. <br /> <br />McLaren's first book introduced us to Pastor Dan, who is wrestling with questions over pluralism, the argument that the Bible is infallible and inerrant, and general ideas about what Jesus meant when he talked about the kingdom. Dan meets Neo, a Christian who has been through similar questioning and has found a certain peace in these new answers. The second book in the series focuses on Dan wrestling with the debate between creationism and evolution, and again the underlying ideas about the identity of the Bible that are an implicit part of this debate. Within the second book, Pastor Dan is put on forced hiatus by his church because of some of his changing teaching. The final book brings the church crisis to a head but first forces Dan to deal with the most painful part of the Christian story - the teachings of Jesus on hell.  <br /> <br />For me,this third book may be one of McLaren's best. Christians who want to be honest about their struggle with the idea of a loving God sending those who have never heard of Jesus to an eternity of torment in hell will find this book provocative and helpful. I would caution those new to McLaren's writing to not begin with this book, but with the first book in this series. To begin with McLaren's teaching on hell builds a house of cards where a firmer foundation should be built with his teaching on the mechanisms by which the Bible should be interpreted. If we start with McLaren's third book we jump right in to his teaching on hell without dealing with the searching that led this point or the logic that makes his argument sustainable. Christians who see nothing needing to be explained within the doctrine of hell will find McLaren's book heresy. Upon publication of this book, McLaren is going to find out who his real friends are, who the real Christians in his midst are, and who he has helped the most with his teaching.  <br /> <br />McLaren makes what I believe is probably a conscious choice to focus on what Jesus really said and as a result what Jesus really meant when he spoke about hell. Because it is a contextual evaluation, many will be frustrated that he sees a layer of complexity where the fundamentalist position on hell needs no such exploration (left largely unspoken in McLaren's book is why some are so comfortable with this idea - something our society may have to wrestle with implicitly in the coming years).  This presentation allows him to avoid the more divisive question of why hell is such a central issue for contemporary Christianity. To me, these type of decisions folded delicately within the tapestry of his writing, suggests that his voice belongs most within the church. I believe that many people within the church do not really buy into much of the church's teaching on creationism, the environment, politics, the end-times, or hell. McLaren's voice echoesthrough the church graciously and eloquently stating that you can be a believer without accepting all that is held within the Christian faith. Does McLaren's voice echo as much outside the church as it does within? I believe that in large part, yes, it does. Many people, even those familiar with the writing of atheists like Bertrand Russell, will find that Russell's denial of Christianity (which he based in large part based on the fundamentalists' presentation of Jesus' teaching on hell) falls apart when McLaren's discussion on hell is presented. This is why McLaren needs to be encouraged to have a broader voice than he now does; this is why I buy his books and share them frequently with family and friends. People need to know that you can be a Christian without believing in eternal torment. People need to know that you can be a Christian without being comfortable in an idea of God that accommodates eternal torment.	2005-04-06
US	49699718	RZ3HFXGUCWSBE	0785113495	374919342	Wolverine: The End	Books	1	2	7	N	Y	Did not live up to the hype or hope!	This was a really, really dissapointing novella.  The ending is awful, totally anti-climatic and without meaning.  The great contribution to Wolverine as a character is finding out he has a brother and the secret the specter of Xavier makes vague reference to.  To make it all even worse, the promise of \\"the end\\" isn't even fulfilled.  Very, very poor.  Let's hope this is the beginning of a phoenix moment for Logan.	2005-03-26
US	49699718	R3BFD8BDDMIVTM	0060578416	13003204	If God Is Love: Rediscovering Grace in an Ungracious World (Gulley, Philip)	Books	4	11	20	N	N	Better read as biography, less as treatise on universalism	What appeals to me most about this book and their first is the personal component of the authors' spiritual journies from wounds dealt them by fundamentalism at an early age. Not everyone responds to a bad fundamentalist experience with the theological stances these authors do. Frankly, I think the stories within these two books are possibly better seen as the authors' biographies than as theological treatises on universalism. The books seem to me to lack a strong forensic or philosophical basis for their teaching; there are serious questions they could pursue in a way as to make their point less anecdotally and more qualitatively. Obviously viewing their work purely as anecdotal doesn't allow a reader to entirely circumvent the beliefs they advocate, but I think an approach from them that was biographic as to their own journey of faith would perhaps yield very similar books with what they hold out now as dogma being more tentatively held out as questions.	2005-01-04
US	49699718	R2VILA7A2HW3MD	0802847587	661659908	The Depth of the Riches: A Trinitarian Theology of Religious Ends (Sacra Doctrina: Christian Theology for a Postmodern Age)	Books	3	8	11	N	Y	Incompatible Ideas Loosely Related	In this book Heim attempts to take the core principle of the Trinity - that of the relationship between Father, Son and Holy Spirit - and develop a theology that attempts to answer some of the thorny questions posed by questions related to religious pluralism.  Heim advocates the belief that each of the world's religious traditions will yield the ultimate end it promises.  As an example, Buddhism will most likely lead to the selflessness that it advocates; but no religion will yield the ideal state which is accessible only to those who have embraced Christianity.  Heim's position is frankly incompatible with C.S. Lewis' belief that he found it hard to believe that \\"a Muslim boy raised in a Muslim land who knows only the Muslim God and desires to follow Him will be disappointed.\\"  Heim's theology requires us to believe that this Muslim boy, through no fault of his own, will be forced to a lower place in the afterlife because he did not place his faith in Christ alone.  John Hick answers Heim in a good review that can be read on-line at Hick's site. <br /> <br />I found the core thesis in this book largely inaccessible; I just could not understand how the Trinity provided an insight into multiple religious ends.  I loved Heim's treatment of Dante's Inferno and how that view has been folded into his theology.  I am interested in how far people like Heim are willing to go in projecting theologies wholly outside of Scripture, and yet so unwilling to be as philosophically rational when debating that which is within Scripture.  I think we all need to be very sensitive to speaking for God as to His ultimate motives, plans and directions.  Heim's book is interesting, but unfulfilling and largely inaccessible.	2004-12-31
US	49699718	R18WZLDZ49TKOL	0066214130	57180289	State of Fear	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Right idea, wrong metaphor, but don't miss the point!	It will be interesting to see how the general public receives Crichton's most recent book.  State of Fear is less a plot-charged and more a politically-charged book.  The plot line itself is not his strongest; you are left with questions about his main character (a man who seems strangely undeveloped personally and as a character within the book even as you finish the final chapter), about why this select group of people were the only ones who could deal with \\"the bad guys\\" and whether or not the environmental science metaphor is the best metaphor for making his point (I think he could have made his point much more candidly with a bio-terror/genetic approach; he may have wanted to avoid this as it has been done by him and many others to death in recent years).   <br /> <br />However, this book is a challenging read in its final conclusions (which he needs an appendix to make; in my view, the appendix may be some of his best writing in this book).  Two points are well made in this book:  the first is that we do a poor job of separating fact from that which the media can use to create a story and scare the crap out of us and second, that we need to be better about asking \\"from whence dost thou come\\" when looking at supposedly scientific research.  We have, as with too many things in this world, politicized the collection of scientific data.  Politics is a bad bed fellow with almost anything other than that which accommodates a basic framework protecting the rights of all to participate in dialogue; it is a very bad companion to religion and science. <br />	2004-12-27
US	49699718	R1KC2254N54GWY	0310257476	502650679	A Generous Orthodoxy: Why I Am a Missional, Evangelical, Post/Protestant, Liberal/Conservative, Mystical/Poetic, Biblical, Charismatic/Contemplative, Fundamentalist/Calvinist, Anabaptist/Anglican, Methodist, Catholic, Green, Incarnational, Depressed-yet-Hopeful, Emergent, Unfinished CHRISTIAN	Books	4	17	25	N	Y	If you have all the answers, avoid this book.	This is, in my opinion, Brian's best book yet.  The long term direction of Brian's teaching and the broader Emergent Church movement he represents is still a bit undefinied; and you know what - that is maybe what is best about him, his writing, and his books.  Rather than state why he has all the answers in a pithy book systemizing his doctrine, he proposes the solutions he has found to the questions he has wrestled with.  In taking this approach, his analysis is approachable and thought-provoking.  Coupled with Brian's willingness to admit he may be wrong, and to clearly state he is only asking his readers to follow him as he follows Christ (echoing the uncertainty even Paul felt), the reader feels nurtured, prodded, but generally led to greener pastures.  It remains to be seen whether or not McLaren's theology, which requires a heavy dose of paradox and mystery, can be sustained in an age of reductionism and rationalism.  Even post-modern man will look to increasingly specific answers to questions Brian addresses.  His treatment of the Canaanite genocide is one area where his ideas are provocative and need to be heard; however, I do not believe they ultimately go far enough and will leave some very empty handed.  Will the Emergent Church rescue Christianity from the current bias it now holds or will it serve to be a bridge to more \\"liberal\\" theologies?  Only time will tell.  This book is a critical step in the process of walking across the bridge.	2004-12-15
US	49699718	R1GT4T871O96GV	037540242X	929380735	Spirit and Flesh: Life in a Fundamentalist Baptist Church	Books	4	16	25	N	Y	Gracious Treatment, But is it the Entire Picture?	What a gracious treatment of potentially difficult material! My one question is whether or not he explores in detail and is fully candid in evaluating what happens when fundamentalists engage their culture. Armstrong's \\"The Battle for God\\" and other similar studies of fundamentalism such as Martin Marty's multi-volume \\"The Fundamentalism Project\\" suggests a real issue with intolerance. Ault makes the comment that liberals are actually guilty of being as intolerant of fundamentalists as they claim the fundamentalists themselves are. But if we are to take the political, social and cultural statements of the fundamentalists like those Ault engages with at face value, do we not have to address slightly more candidly the anger and in too-many situations the hate that fundamentalists advocate? Would such candor also have to deal with the reality that few fundamentalisms, regardless of whether they are Christian, Islamic or Hindu, allow for any form of democratic let alone religious pluralism. The comment Augustine is credited as having contributed to the lexicon of human's tenuous grasp of grace that \\"on the essentials unity, on the non-essentials liberty, and in all things charity\\" seems to come apart when you are engaging a culture where everything is an essential - an intrinsic part of fundamentalism. I appreciated the sociological perspective Ault brought and I was deeply and profoundly personally touched by his grace, but I think some greater danger exists within this group than his book presents. In an age where predominant sociologists, political theorists, theologians, social scientists and philosophers fear the clash of religious fundamentalists, does Ault's analysis go far enough in its analysis? I admire his grace and hold out hope that his attitude will be embraced	2004-11-15
US	49699718	RPU0Y18OZG76D	0140185003	179354174	The Quiet American (Penguin Twentieth Century Classics)	Books	5	12	16	N	N	A Glimpse Into American Empire	I was challenged in reading this book to think about how America's best of intentions are often times poorly received in the parts of the world we intend to help. Greene's book is echoed in part by Niall Ferguson's Collosus, a book that argues that the idea of American empire is slightly unrealistic given the fact that Americans are unwilling to relocate and get dirty in the same way Englishmen were. The act of colonialism is not compatible with American culture, a fact Greene explores in this wonderful fictional work.	2004-11-15
US	49699718	R3MPJVX7K0VS43	1400053064	314734038	Hard America, Soft America: Competition vs. Coddling and the Battle for the Nation's Future	Books	2	5	29	N	Y	Sweeping Generalities Disservice a More Complex Set of Issue	As sweeping generalities go, this book ranks high in its attempt to use ambiguities as a replacement for specifics. In essence the book argues for the pre-eminence and necessity of being \\"hard\\" in order for America to be great. Michael Barone, former editor of U.S. News and World Report bounces around from topic to topic, settling on various issues long enough to throw out simple analyses that justifies the importance of being hard in the face of being \\"soft.\\" The reader may interject the terms \\"conservative\\" for \\"hard\\" and \\"liberal\\" for \\"soft.\\" I disagree with his generalities: the issue is two-fold when determining the best policy. The first issue is to find balance between the opposition. Few ideologies taken to an extreme are valuable. The Confucian ideal of finding the value in the middle of two ideas at odds with one another is valuable in an increasingly polarized world. The second issue is to actually go out on a limb and suggest that a specific ideological approach has value in certain situations; as these fluid situations change so must our ideologies. Nothing that exists in stasis, even religion, will survive without adaptation and change.	2004-11-15
US	49699718	R2EAP41NAGS39E	0060099240	999308422	The Heart of Islam: Enduring Values for Humanity	Books	4	21	26	N	N	Believe that more than hate binds the Muslim community	Too many Christians fall into the trap of believing their own press when it comes to other religions. Having a dialogue with other faiths is much harder, particularly on your own beliefs, when you set aside your own \\"experts\\" and entertain the beliefs of others from within their own community. I think this is the heart of real dialogue. For American Christians, Nasr's book is a must-read if you wish to have the slightest insight into what Islam is really about. I found much to build on with Muslims and look forward to learning more about this faith.	2004-11-15
US	49699718	R7I4XSD7A1B1B	0830823948	965254608	Is God to Blame? Moving Beyond Pat Answers to the Problem of Suffering	Books	3	26	40	N	Y	Rightly Challenging?	As much as I would like to, I can not entirely recommend this book. It deals with the problem of evil in the world more honestly and candidly than most Christian authors do. Even Philip Yancey's various books on evil and suffering struggle to be as honest in their dealing with evil and suffering as Gregory Boyd is within this book. Yancey functions still within the Augustinian framework that Boyd seeks to set aside, specifically the belief that God is in control of every minutia of our lives, including those bad things that happen to us. Augustinian thinking says that all of the details of this world's existence fold into God's greater plan. Boyd does not so much directly disagree with this as he suggests much more is out of control in this world than Augustinian thinking allows for. Perhaps a simple way of looking at Boyd's thesis is that God's overarching plan for history is His to control and is only known to Him; however, the details of our life, while God cares for these things, are wrapped up in the outworking of man's free will. The book's honesty appeals to me, although upon further reflection I have been unclear about the role he sees prayer having within our lives or exactly what I am appealing to God for in my moments of need. Perhaps Boyd would suggest I should be looking less to God to rescue me from the situation and more to give me the right spirit with which to handle the difficulties I find myself in. Our need to know God is in control is perhaps rightly seen by cynics as little more than the similar need to believe in an afterlife; the beliefs are reinforced more to placate our deeper fears than because of the deeper truths they can rightly illuminate. I think in time I will come to see that Boyd's approach appeals more to me as it stresses my personal responsibility to assist in making the goals of the kingdom advance.	2004-11-15
US	49699718	R1EFLM3P820JU2	0805074732	264432785	Orwell: The Life	Books	3	2	8	N	N	A tormented soul with piercing insight into totalitarianism.	Orwell was a tormented and terribly complex man. He gave us some of the most bleeding and damning insights into totalitarian systems and yet struggled to envision what a society, a pluralistic government should look like. His classics 1984 and Animal Farm should be required reading of us all. I think were Orwell to see how his work is handled today he would be frustrated at how his points have not sunk in; perhaps such a realization would have led him to portray his thoughts more clearly on what a society should be, not only what we should be on guard against. And then again, perhaps this was not his gift to humanity. Sometimes those we want as guardians are not those we want as warriors.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	RWDUXYXD99F3B	0891075615	440957748	The Francis A. Schaeffer Trilogy: Three Essential Books in One Volume	Books	3	21	32	N	Y	An apology for apologetics.	Schaeffer brings the mind of a scholar and the priorities of a Christian together in each of these three books. While certain portions, especially in The God Who Is There, may seem obtuse to those unfamiliar with classical philosophy, his analysis from a decidedly Christian perspective is much appreciated. In the first book within this trilogy, Schaeffer spends a good bit of time discussing what he calls the \\"Line of Despair\\" between Christian and modern, non-Christian thinking, art and music. I found this a bit arbitrary and inaccurate. Christians of today are very guilty of sweeping generalizations about what is Christian and what is not - often times doing so on the basis of a very poor and very ambiguous understanding of the reality of the supposedly Christian past we should go back to. That having been said, I also found much to resonate with in Schaeffer's writing - in particular his discussion on the role and technique behind apologetics. He makes a powerful point about Christian apologetics that needs to be reinforced in the mind of many - mine included: that ultimately it is not our ability to rationalize or argue our faith but our ability to exhibit our own changed life, changed spirit and changed perspective. That is the point of apologetics, not winning an argument.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R356GM0GPPX9O9	0375413189	900014736	The Spiral Staircase: My Climb Out of Darkness	Books	4	9	13	N	Y	A life spent searching lands.	Karen Armstrong's most recent book covers her time after leaving the convent, completing her education, and finding her way in the world. I am so very, very thankful to her for her honesty in her spiritual struggles and her own journey. I wish more people would be as honest about their questions. Many people could be helped if we were to nurture a forgiving and gracious culture that allows others to open up, being honest about their failures, mistakes, guilt and questions.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R37EAZ0AKPGX2I	0312119038	999720718	Through the Narrow Gate: A Memoir of Spiritual Discovery	Books	4	15	18	N	Y	Honestly searching for the unknowable	I resonate deeply with Karen Armstrong's spiritual journey as outlined in this, her autobiographical sketch of her seven years in a convent. While I was never in such a highly concentrated and ostracized community as her convent, my own spiritual journey was marked by eighteen years of a stridently sectarian and legalistic environment that masked any ability on my part to know God. Within this book one can see Karen's desire to know God - which originally motivated her to dedicate her life to Him by service in the convent - but also her struggles with the life of faith and the distance of God. She and I share a profound desire to know God, but an equally profound consternation and lack of understanding of what those people who talk of their close relationship with God mean. Her search for God has led her to a view of God that is one I can deeply appreciate, although am not educated enough to be able to critically evaluate in full.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R3K5Y7S9DG3E66	0739317067	786383328	My Life	Books	3	3	5	N	N	Suprisingly personal - always Clinton's strength.	The autobiography of the devil himself (at least if you buy into the Religious Right and Christian Conservative's political perspective)! I enjoyed this abridged version versus the 900-some page full paper version as the CD version hit the high points of his story without all of the detail that I do not always appreciate in biographies. In general, I recommend this book. For those who honestly hate President Clinton, this book humanizes him in a way that will challenge their preconception of him as a human being. His openness about the struggles of his childhood was touching - in particular his relationship with his mother and her various husbands.  <br /> <br />President Clinton was loved by many because his humanity, the earthiness and approachability of his story, was something obvious and familiar to many. As opposed to political candidates so perfect they seem other-worldly to average people, President Clinton's failures, foibles and mistakes make him all the more real. The part of the book that deals with his sexual sins and Monica Lewinsky is worth dwelling on, particularly for Christians who strongly dislike him. In this part of the book, President Clinton is very direct about his sin, his mistake, and his wrong. He makes no effort to excuse his behavior and actualizes the Christian concept of asking for forgiveness.  <br /> <br />I strenuously disagree with men like John McArthur who were obviously angry over the supposed insincerity of President Clinton's apology. Christians gave up two of their central and most defining characteristics over a disagreement on politics during the Clinton presidency - the centrality of love and the critical importance of forgiveness. I was one of these people and I was wrong.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	RBS73YIYMWH6X	1400040930	575332371	Of Paradise and Power: America and Europe in the New World Order	Books	3	6	10	N	N	Can American & EU Differences Be Only About Power?	This is a fairly well balanced book that articulates a clear set of reasons as to what separates the European and American governments, and to a lesser degree, our respective cultures when it comes to political action and worldview. Kagan is a fellow of a neo-conservative think tank (Project for a New American Century) that advocated before the Bush-43 Administration took office the invasion of Iraq as a belief in the need and appropriate technique for a establishing a reshaped Middle East. This book stops short of specific discussions on the value and rightness of this idea, and instead focuses on the role of power in the development of American and EU ideologies. The book takes for granted that someone needs to be in a powerful position globally in order to preserve order. His thesis is that since the United States is currently in that position, we should be comfortable in the position and think seriously about the responsibility that goes with it. What Kagan misses, I believe, is the belief that what is good for the preservation of US power is good for others. This is a subtle point that his book overlooks.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R2LKPN49YUDGEK	0743261275	243709653	The Folly of Empire: What George W. Bush Could Learn from Theodore Roosevelt and Woodrow Wilson	Books	4	9	13	N	N	Provoking analysis without political anger	Judis argues that President Bush and the neo-conservatives around him are overlooking critically important lessons US history should be teaching them relative to using imperial policies to make our country safer. Judis talks about Teddy Roosevelt's involvement in the Philippines (a disastrous event for America), our involvement in Mexico and what Wilson learned from these two events that led him to believe in the ideas reflected within the League of Nations. Judis argues persuasively that our current policy of anticipatory self-defense (also known as the doctrine of pre-emption) will have very negative effects to our credibility, our resources, and our ability to pay attention to other areas in the world where more serious problems are percolating.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R11KKWOVECDSDB	0310535913	449903205	A Wideness in God's Mercy: The Finality Of Jesus Christ In A World Of Religions	Books	5	15	16	N	Y	Creative theology used to answer important questions	Other than reading Pinnock's contribution to a Moody Counterpoint Series on the challenges pluralism presents to orthodox Christianity, I had not read any of Pinnock's other work. This was my first exposure to him; I look forward to picking up more of his work in the future. Pinnock argues for a broader view of salvation outside of Christianity than most evangelicals will accommodate; however, he does not sacrifice the concepts of Divine inspiration of Scripture, the historicity and Divinity of Christ, and conventional orthodoxies on the Trinity. A very worthwhile read.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R2429QQF8MIL84	0805073396	564190816	What's the Matter with Kansas? How Conservatives Won the Heart of America	Books	4	12	14	N	N	Insightful, but discouraging.	This book disturbed me deeply. It left me feeling very anxious and discouraged over the future of our country's political discourse, and as a consequence of this, our ability to meet the challenges of the future with any form of unity.  If Frank's thesis is correct, the politically biting environment we are currently engendering bodes omminously for the future of our republic.  <br /> <br />The thesis of Frank's book is that Republicans have convinced the low to middle class to vote for them on the basis of social issues, without taking into consideration the conservatives own elitism and the fact that conservatives are eager to pillage the individual for the sake of the corporation, the market, or something as naked as the acquisition of money. Frank's book will no doubt be rightly hailed as a prophetic work; my question is whether or not anyone on the other side of the aisle is capable of responding to the Republicans' strategic execution of a well engineered political plan, and whether or not average citizens are going to encourage our politicians to attempt and become more than talking heads.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R1PX3B3LWYP1EI	0687030323	514853497	The Authority of the Old Testament	Books	3	5	14	N	Y	Asks the critical questions, but stops short of answering	Bright's book is an attempt to answer some of the pressing questions relative to the role the Church should give to the Old Testament. I was thoroughly excited reading the book, being very appreciative of Bright's attempts to be completely candid over the difficulties in holding to a literal hermeneutic of Old Testament authority. I found Bright's conclusion very unsatisfying and quite unfulfilling. He seemed to have the courage to ask the really hard questions, but would not follow through logically on where his questions were taking him. I believe certain attachments to specific evangelical Christian ideas about inerrancy, infallibility and inspiration colored the last  of the book, and as such, limited the poignancy of his conclusions.	2004-09-17
US	49699718	R1YT3HYTAATQ2K	1400061946	899669555	An End to Evil: How to Win the War on Terror	Books	1	65	108	N	N	Biting Off More Than They Can Chew	The book quickly suggests and reinforces the belief that everything the Bush administration has put forward to us can, and should be, justly contrasted between good and evil - even such distinctions as those between Republicans and Democrats.  By the mid-point of the second page of the book, Democrats have already been accused of being against the \\"war\\" (no doubt left ambiguous as to which war - that on terror, or that in Iraq - as it suits Frum and Perle's ideas to leave undefined that which carries with it meaning). <br />The book struggles to rise above that of propaganda.  The books double spaced 284 pages are sparsely footnoted.  Given the claims made in this book, should the authors have desired to do more than inflame and reinforce those that already agree with them, it would have served their purposes well to provide some sort of academic support.  Without them, the book does not rise above that of an extended campaign speech for now-President Bush.  Some of the book is ludicrous - \\"The clues and hints we have linking Saddam's intelligence to the hijackers are inconclusive.  But they are not nonexistent.\\"  (page 45)  What?  Where did we begin to allow such weak-minded arguments to become the basis for military action?  Are we as anesthetized to logic and reason that this type of question is purported to be meaningful?<br />The flaccid logic this book espouses are best illustrated by using the authors' own words:  \\"Yet at this dangerous moment many in the American political and media elite are losing their nerve for the fight.  Perhaps it is the political cycle:  For some Democrats, winning the war has become a less urgent priority than winning the next election.  Perhaps it is the media, rediscovering its bias in favor of bad news and infecting the whole country with its own ingrown pessimism.  Perhaps it is Congress, resenting the war's cost and coveting the money for its own domestic spending agendas.  Or perhaps it is just fatigue.\\" (page 4)  This is ludicrous - no where in this section do the authors make a meaningful effort to suggest that some peoples' resistance to the \\"war\\" are on the basis of meaningful policy disputes or a desire to see our foreign policy become more consistent.<br />The authors are guilty of tremendous over-simplification.  One such example is contained within the second chapter, where they argue that America must come to understand that resolving the civil problems in Iraq will take time, that we must be patient.  Now that we are in a conflict I disagree with us originally being a part of, I would have to agree.  But to support the argument by suggesting parallels to the current day Soviet Union is inappropriate and illogical.  \\"A dozen years after the fall of communism, electricity and water sputter unreliably in much of the former Soviet Union.\\"  (page 12)  That sentence is within a portion of the book arguing that the change to democracy, or perhaps better said, the vindication of America's current policy can be shown to help the people if they will only stick with it.  To say that now, given the dangerous situation developing in Russia and the poor standard of living in Russia, is shocking.  <br />This book should reinforce peoples' concerns over the neo-conservatives who have power within the Bush administration.  These people view American hegemony as a good thing, and view the world in black and white terms that always portray America's motives as pure and those that disagree with them as evil (hence this book's preposterous title).  In the second chapter, the authors suggest that the most recent Iraqi war \\"achieved at least seven great objectives.\\"  (page 32)  The fourth lesson chilled me, and requires little more for me to believe that neo-conservatives have a worldview that force plays an integral part of:  \\"We have learned valuable lessons about how to fight wars in the region and how to rebuild afterward.  Nobody will pretend that mistakes were note made in the Iraqi campaign and the subsequent occupation.  But we have learned from those mistakes, and they will not be repeated.  The United States will continue to become more and more capable and effective in the fight against terror.\\"  (page 33)  Those words are chilling.  They show premeditation in the employment of force to protect US hegemony and to perpetuate American imperialism.  It seems a tad bit premature to argue that we can say we have learned how to rebuild Iraq when so much remains to be done, and when our recent record in Afghanistan is anything but checkered.  <br />I agree with the authors of this book in one area:  those that oppose Bush must put forward a meaningful foreign policy that addresses the fear of Americans, the realities of the dangers in our current-day, and that forces institutional reform within those international organizations and governments that can most directly and immediately affect change.	2004-03-22
US	49699718	R16BZIXDW9MYEJ	0310231957	614043851	Two Views on Women in Ministry	Books	3	6	22	N	Y	Too much overlap, needs some consolidation.	This book talks about two positions within the Christian community relative to the view of women in ministry.  The two positions are egalitarian (women can serve in any position within the church and are explicitly denied certain positions in only very rare culturally specific situations) and complimentarian (women can have certain roles in the church, but not all, including pastoral and elder positions).  <br />I think this discussion boils down to your hermeneutic principle.  If you tend to read the Bible as a God-inspired, infallible story that is written within the culture of its day and as such needs to be interpreted along such culturally specific guidelines, you will probably be egalitarian in your perspective.  If you are a fundamentalist (also called a foundationalist) the position of complimentarian will no doubt make you more comfortable.  <br />For me, I can not look at the God ordained institution of marriage and see anything less than complete equality.  Yes, man is called out to be the \\"head\\" of the household.  But let us be consistent in our understanding of the metaphor Paul is using - he uses the same metaphor when talking about the body of Christ.  The head is not superior to the foot, it is different (here logically the complimentarian position has won the battle of terminology as they more closely associate their position with what position the egalitarians actually espouse).  <br />God reaches man through three means of revelation:  specific (the Bible), natural (the physical world around us), and general (the spark of knowledge of Him we each have).  I find the egalitarian position most consistent across each of these three means of revelation:  specific (I believe the Bible clearly supports the egalitarian position), natural (my wife is not inferior to me, she is different; only when men have denied the suffrage movement have we seen how badly men will pervert the supposedly natural order of men's strength and women's weakness in order to suppress women's freedom), and last general (I honestly can not see how having a woman's viewpoint does anything but make decisions better for families and men!).  I do not believe this is an issue you deal with by logic, it is a position that has to do with your hermeneutic and world-view.	2004-03-12
US	49699718	RJSOBKIWMYED4	0674008286	472729616	Lenin: A Biography	Books	4	11	15	N	Y	Lenin the man - superb; Lenin the Russian - needs work.	This biography is incredibly thorough, and is entirely fixated on Lenin.  In fact, that would be my one complaint.  The book was so thoroughly focused on Lenin (and I can appreciate how silly this must sound as the book was a biography of Lenin), that it missed properly characterizing what was going on in Russia.  In certain sections the book did discuss what was taking place in Russia, but usually only within the very limited scope of how Lenin was responding to the problem.  I felt the narrative on Lenin would have benefited from an expanded discussion of what was going on socially within Russia as Lenin came to power.  This weakness of the book is perhaps exacerbated by the fact (something I did not know) that Lenin lived for 18 years outside of Russia as an adult man.  As his ideology was developing he was fully outside of Russian culture.<br /> Lenin was an average ideologue, but he was an above-average politician.  His works on political philosophy, as Service says, were barely above the standard of a college student.  They were not insightful and were not worthy of prominent distinction.  Lenin was a consummate politician who did believe in the essential goals of socialism.<br /> I believe he would have been disgusted at what Stalin did with the gulag system; however, Lenin was a pragmatist.  He did not allow Stalin to rise to power on accident.  Did he see Stalin as a balance against Trotski who Lenin may have feared would be more willing to compromise?  The life of Lenin illustrates the core problem of socialism:  it has never been embraced by people who did not prove to be brutally totalitarian and completely unwilling to allow individuality.	2004-03-10
US	49699718	R2E9MG12WXUPWX	078795599X	52865741	A New Kind of Christian: A Tale of Two Friends on a Spiritual Journey	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Sharing the Journey	This book takes courage to read, to review and to live by.  It is not, as some who have reviewed it claim, an attack on the infalibility of Scripture or an effort to demean those who would suggest that wooden literalism is the ideal hermeneutic.  This is a book about how to reconcile the Church today with the post-modern world.  The use of the POMO term skews this discussion out of the gates - in my opinion it even serves to demonize the position too early on in many people's views.  For me this is a book that I will share with other Christians who are struggling with how fundamentalism has damaged their own faith, as well as those friends who are agnostics - whose biggest denial of the Christian God is the Christian Church.	2003-11-21
US	49699718	RYFR2S09690KR	080106435X	39990908	A Case for Amillennialism: Understanding the End Times	Books	4	6	8	N	Y	Thorough Introduction to Amillennialism	Dr. Riddlebarger's book is an excellent work on Amillennialism.  While other books, perhaps those that adequately discuss each of the historical, orthodox views of the end of time, might be a better introduction to how those positions opposite amillennialism differ, this is an excellent introduction into the topic.  The issue of the devil being bound in today's day remains one of the more thorny issues for amillenialism, and while his book does address this, it remains a point of fairly obvious contention for others.  All in all, a very worthwhile book.	2003-11-21
US	49699718	R2BQJMRLG7MF8B	0924722037	320707735	A Glimpse at Early Christian Church Life.	Books	2	2	4	N	Y	Early Church Life or Tertullian's Life Experience?	I did not enjoy this book entirely.  I was struck while reading it that Tertullian and Luther were weighted down by excessive guilt.  While Luther's manifested itself in other ways, I had the sense that Tertullian advocated and developed certain theologies based on mistakes he had as a young man - almost as if by taking some more extreme positions he could make amends for his mistakes.  This is not a long read, but is not something that I would say is a great starting point for those looking to learn more about the Apostolic Fathers.  I would also suggest that some of the positions Tertullian ended up taking (vestil virgins) are indicative of other problems in his theology as well.	2003-11-21
