US	49693503	R3SB673OXGM5O3	0872203522	627065254	Iliad (Hackett Classics)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Amazingly readable	Lombardo's translation is, without any doubt, the most readable and engrossing English-language version of the Iliad. The language is clear and contemporary, the metaphors and similes are accessible, and the imagery is striking. This translation will be enjoyed by adolescents and the elderly alike.<br /><br /> One detractor for people familiar with Homer, is that Lombardo has done away with some of the familiar renderings of the epithets. Gone, for example, are &quot;swift-footed Achilles&quot; and &quot;rosey-fingered Dawn.&quot; Regardless, this is THE English-language Iliad.	2004-07-21
US	49693503	R289WFXAHJKMU1	0521661021	801923440	Origins of the European Economy: Communications and Commerce AD 300 - 900	Books	5	53	54	N	Y	The most brilliant work of medieval scholarship in years!	First, before you proceed any further with this book, you ought to know that it is not abou the origins of the European economy.  If you are looking for a book about economic life and change in Europe between 300 and 900, this is not really the book for you.  McCormick's book is specifically about trade, and largely &quot;international&quot; trade, between these years.<br />Having said that, McCormick's book is the most brilliant work on medieval history in years.  He sets out to examine the patterns of Mediterranean commerce during the early middle ages, focusing on different aspects of the Pirenne thesis.  This, of course, has been done repeatedly over the eight decades since Pirenne's famous publications, but McCormick's approach is startlingly new.  Rather than simply argue over the same tired scraps of evidence, McCormick works hard to incorporate old, non-economic, data into his argument, and also brings in entirely new evidence.  To begin with, McCormick focuses on the accounts of non-commercial travellers -- pilgrims, envoys, missionaries, etc. -- to see how they travelled, when they travelled, and whom they travelled with.  By looking at these accounts McCormick puts together a picture of frequent Mediterranean travel, demonstrates the frequency of specific routes, and, the interaction of travelling merchants and other travellers.  McCormick uses these accounts as evidence of a vibrant shipping network in the Mediterranean in the eight and ninth centuries.  He then backs this inferrence up with &quot;hard&quot; data from recent undersea archaeology, numismatics, and the study of relic hordes.<br />In the end, McCormick discusses the export of Europeans as slaves to the Caliphate, and, to a limited extenct, Byzantium.  McCormick's final argument is that this slave trade was massive, and provided the fuel for the growth of European commerce, growth that was sustained even after the decline of the slave trade.<br />When all is said and done, McCormick's book is amazing.  His arguments and evidence are controversial, and it is easy to predict that this book will be the focal point for scholarly debate for the next generation.  Well written, engrossing, and thought provoking, this book is a must for anyone interested in medieval studies or good scholarly debate.  The beuatiful maps, charts, and graphs, and the detailed accounts of travellers in the appendices simply add to the value of this book.s amazing.  His arguments and evidence are controversial, and it is easy to predict that this book will be the focal point for scholarly debate for the next generation.  Well written, engrossing, and thought provoking, this book is a must for anyone interested in medieval studies or good scholarly debate.  The beuatiful maps, charts, and graphs, and the detailed accounts of travellers in the appendices simply add to the value of this book.	2003-12-09
US	49693503	R31HIR6HXSBWTQ	0521380693	152649523	Domination and Conquest: The Experience of Ireland, Scotland and Wales, 1100-1300 (The Wiles Lectures)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A concise, illuminating study	With Domination and Conquest Davies, one of the most prominent historians of the &quot;British&quot; middle ages, has put together a gem of a book.  Davies' fundamental purpose here is to put an end to many of the misconceptions about the Anglicization of Britain and Ireland.  Beginning with a discussion of the difference between domination and conquest, Davies helps us see that the military aspect of this episode in history is not as important as it often appears.  From here Davies moves on to shatter the idea of a concerted and organized Anglo-Norman endeavor to conquer and dominate the Isles, and the myth of organized resistances in Wales and Ireland.  In the end, Davies leaves us with a profoundly different understanding of Anglo-Norman expansion in the British Isles.  In addition to being illuminating, Domination and Conquest is wonderfully written and a joy to read.	2003-08-10
US	49693503	RLTY3GT11LJ34	0195112075	252240559	When China Ruled the Seas: The Treasure Fleet of the Dragon Throne, 1405-1433	Books	5	37	41	N	N	This book leaves much to be desired ...	... but that is part of its purpose.  <br />Levathes has written a short and quaint work on a fascinating episode in history, the voyage of Cheng Ho and the Chinese Treasure Fleet.  In the early fifteenth century, during the Ming Dynasty, Cheng Ho led a massive fleet of gargantuan ships on several voyages to the East Indies, Southeast Asia, India, Persia, and East Africa.  Levanthes tells us the story of these voyages and the political circumstances that led to them and to their sudden cessation.<br />When China Ruled the Seas, though, is in no way comprehensive.  Nothing is mentioned about the nagivation, sailing techniques, or cartography that made these voyages possible.  Most of the points that Levathes makes about the reason for the voyages are never fully concluded, while much of the background on Chinese sailing before Cheng Ho is superfluous.<br />But, the lack of these important elements results not in disappointment, but a yearning to know more.  Given the short length of the book, it is certain that Levathes had this purpose in mind while \\"teasing\\" us with this book.<br />When China Ruled the Seas is a wonderful story that can be enjoyed on its own, but also makes a great starting point for anyone interested in Chinese history.	2003-08-09
US	49693503	R2ERXRW229RHCI	0380978938	591476242	Ilium	Books	4	5	8	N	N	Brilliant concept, tired delivery	There is no doubt about it:  Dan Simmons is a brilliant and ingenius writer.  Ilium is his best book in years, and definitely one of the best science fiction books since ... well, since Simmons finished the Hyperion Cantos.  Unfortunately, while Simmons has given us an amazingly fresh science fiction concept, he has failed to give us a fresh or envigorating literary style in which to deliver this great concept.<br />One of the things that made the Hyperion Cantos so wonderful was Simmons's refusal to turn his science fiction story into a mass of flashy, but hollow, jargon, as is so often the case in modern science fiction.  With Ilium, however, Simmons has done just that (although still to a lesser degree than most other science fiction writers).  Additionally, most of the characters are dry, tired, or simply science fiction transformations of characters from his other books.  Indeed, other than the characters borrowed from Homer, there are only two characters in Ilium that are likeable and intriguing -- the two Jovian-system robets whose friendship is based around analyzing Shakespeare and Proust.  The main character of the story (or, at least, the first we meet) is basically the same character from A Winter Haunting (in fact, I spent most of the novel being certain that it would turn out to be him!) -- just another college professor we should pity.  The second principal character we meet, interesting at first, turns out to be thinly-veiled literary device.  Prominent throughout the whole book, his primary purpose seems to be to ask &quot;what is ...&quot; and &quot;why ...&quot; so that another character can convey iformation to the audience.  Perhaps the biggest problem in Ilium, probably the cause of its other detractions, is that it is very rushed.  While the Hyperion Cantos told a story that was well paced at all times, spreading itself over four books, Ilium is paced much too quickly.  The feeling the reader gets is that Dan Simmons (or is it Harper Collins?)is determined to mash a four-book story into two books.  With the story being forced to move along so quickly, it is no wonder that most of the characters are shallow and hollow, and that, rather than slowly presenting to us the quantum science responsible for the plot, we are force-fed a cornucopia of jargon.  Ilium is at its best whent the pace is slow, giving us time to witness long scenes from Homer or to enjoy a conversation about one of Shakespeare's sonnets or Proust's characters.<br />Still, this is a marvelous work.  Much of what makes Ilium not great literature is irrelevant in the science fiction genre, where great literature is so scarce.  Even with its disappointments and cheap literary devices, Ilium still towers over most other science fiction.  What is most disapponting about Ilium is that it simply is not Dan Simmons at his best.  Nevertheless, this book tells a great story (and not just the one by Homer), and you should read it.	2003-08-09
US	49693503	R3QM3CQTP1NKUN	0819621641	338165568	The Social and Economic History of the Roman Empire	Books	5	25	29	N	N	A Masterpiece	In short, this book is a masterpiece of historical scholarship.  Rostovtzeff describes every aspect of socioeconomic life throughout Roman civilization from the Julio-Claudians through Diocletian in a wonderful narrative.  It is hard to imagine that a book primarily concerned with how people feed and clothe themselves can be an engrossing page-turner, but this book is.  If you are at all interested in the history of real people, you must read this book.	2003-08-09
US	49693503	R2H9P9USJ4V409	0140045147	554822668	Medieval Machine: The Industrial Revolution of the Middle Ages	Books	2	16	33	N	N	Deceiving, Deceptive, and Disappointing	The first thing you need to know about this book is that it is not really entitled The Medieval Machine.  That is the American title given to this French book which was originally published as The Industrial Revolution of the Middle Ages.  If you are interested in learnin about medieval machinery and mechanical inventions this, despite the title, is not the book for you.<br />The second thing that you need to know about this book is that, well, it is not a coherent &quot;book.&quot;  It is, basically, a collection of loosely related essays about industrial life in the high and late (mostly late) middle ages.  <br />The third thing you need to know about this book is that these essays are not very good.  Simply, they are a good representation of typical Romance-language scholarship:  a series of non-sequitors riddled with quotations from source material which are not properly cited.<br />The only reason to buy this book is the essay on pollution and the environment.  This book is the only published work (in book form) in English to deal with this important aspect of medieval life.  Again, and unfortunately, while the essay is unique, it remains poor.  I strongly suggest that you not purchase this book.	2003-08-09
US	49693503	R170YJVLV6GOCI	0812213424	805553992	The Carolingians : A Family Who Forged Europe	Books	5	22	22	N	N	The Best of its Kind	Riche's treatment of the Carolingian dynasty and era is masterful, and towers above other such treatments.  Beginning with the late Merovingian kings and the slow rise of the Carolingians, and ending with the establishment of the new regional dynasties this book covers almost three hundred years of history in dramatic fashion.  Riche focuses on who the Carolingians were as persons and as rulers, giving his descriptions of events a feeling of real truth.  At the same time, Riche rises above merely writing a narrative history.  Woven into the story of the Carolingians is much academic discussion of policies, administration, linguistics, economics, military science and technology.  Riche goes so far as to end the book with an eighty-page discussion of Carolingian society, focusing on the Church, the features of kingship, economics, and the &quot;Carolingian Renaissance.&quot;<br />For those of you wary of Romance-language scholarship, know that the book does lack notes, but the sources are clearly stated within the text.  As far as translation goes, this is the best French-into-English translations out there.<br />Given that there is only one map, it would be a good idea to get a historical atlas to accompany this book.	2003-08-08
US	49693503	R3JCEKZMMTZR4F	0312977360	675868129	The Church of Dead Girls: A Novel	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Complex and subtle narrative, and a compelling story	The Church of Dead Girls is the best novel I have read in a long time. I imagine that most readers of this review are looking for a good thriller/serial killer novel; this book is certainly that, and an excellent one. Dobyns uses some wonderful techniques to create the sort of suspense that keeps you up at night. Even the most seasoned readers of serial killer novels will be uncertain what exactly is going on until the last few pages.<BR>But what is even more interesting, this \\"whodunnit\\" is the story about a small town that has fallen under the shadow of murder and abduction. This is not a novel about police hunting down a serial killer, but rather, a novel about what happens to the inhabitants of a sleepy rural town when they are confronted with the fact that one of them (at least) is a monster.<BR>Still better, though, is Dobyns' masterful narrative. It takes a lot of courage to stray away from the omniscient and anonymous third person and the tell-all biographical first person narratives. Dobyns, however, has done just that. Our narrator is a real person, a teacher at the local high school. He himself plays only a minor role in the story he tells and admits to not knowing everything. Frequently the story is told in a thrid person voice, but the narrator always provides us with the source of his information, so that the feeling of authenticity is maintained. Dobyns brings this town so vibrantly alive that you begin to wonder if this is really fiction.<BR>Dobyns has proved himself to be a masterful storyteller -- don't deprive yourself of this wonderful experience.	2003-03-17
US	49693503	R21J590GFK8VEP	0140444467	377950503	The Poem of the Cid: Dual Language Edition (Penguin Classics) (Spanish Edition)	Books	5	55	60	N	Y	Absolutely wonderful	This edition of The Poem of the Cid is truly wonderful.  For starters, it is a bilingual edition, presenting the reader with the original medieval Spanish text.  The translation itself is highly readable.  The humour and tension in particular scenes shine in this translation.<br />The story itself is also marvelous.  We get a wonderful sense of the confusion and ambiguities of the feudal society.  The uniqueness of the Spanish feudal experience comes through brilliantly.  The Muslims are dealt with with more accuracy and tolerance than in any other work of medieval literature.  The two Jewish characters in the poem -- moneylenders -- are presented without scorn.  Indeed, it is the Frankish (probably Norman) count of Barcelona who is portrayed as the moronic outsider.  There is much excellent description of medieval warfare, clothing, hommage ceremonies, and use of money, but most enlightening part of the story is the long trial scene.<br />The poem is short, with a fast-paced and coherent plot.  It is very easy to read this in one sitting because it is so gripping.	2003-02-06
US	49693503	R3NUQMJZ6TULYD	0140441247	647652013	Chronicles of the Crusades (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Two of the most readable accounts of the Crusades	These two accounts are highly readable, and it is wonderful to have them packaged together like this.  Geoffrey's chronicle of the 4th Crusade (the one that sacked Constantinople) is an awesome perspective on an often-maligned event.  Jean's account of the 7th Crusade and the life of St. Louis is even better.  With Jean we catch a rare glimpse of a sensitive warrior fully capable of expressing a wide range of moods and emotions.  Both chronicles are well worth reading and will provide the historian and the non-historian alike with hours of enjoyment.	2003-01-24
US	49693503	R2EQGH03TN3GFB	0195103378	538898646	Sacred Trust: The Medieval Church as an Economic Firm	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Ground-breaking and paradigm-shifting	Ekelund and his team of microeconomists have put together a convincing argument that the Catholic Church operated as an M-firm during the medieval period.  Although the book comes in at just under two hundred pages, it contains several excellent examples of the Church making decisions and opperating in this capacity.  Much recent economic scholarship has been aimed at using contemporary microeconomic models to analyze organizations that do not fit into the traditional boundaries of economics; Sacred Trust follows this trend, but takes it to a new level.  Rather than look at modern institutions (e.g. the U.S. Army and the Soviet Union) Ekelund and his team have gone back over a millenium to examine an institution which most people (historians included) have virtually ceased to analyze.  In doing this they have not only broken new academic ground, they have shifted one of the most rigid paradigms in academia.  The authors state throughout Sacred Trust that their work is by no means comprehensive, but that they simply wanted to show what could be done with the latest economic models.  Hopefully the work will be incouraging to other economists and historians, who can indeed take the work further.  Sacred Trust is well worth your time and your money.<br />Note to historians:  do not be discouraged -- it is possible to ignore the annoying MLA format.	2003-01-22
US	49693503	RGS9K095MGJLW	0743202481	778875858	Civilizations: Culture, Ambition, and the Transformation of Nature	Books	4	12	16	N	N	Fails to deliver	Fernandez-Armesto's purpose in writing this book is to change the way we think of civilizations -- both in definition and in perspective.  He gives us his definition of civilization -- the process by which human communities attempt to alter their environment -- and then gives us a &quot;history&quot; of the world's civilizations, grouped by the type of environment they inhabited.  Thus, for example, he will compare and contrast the ways that the inhabitants of the Great Plains in North America, the Sahel and the savannah in Africa, and the steppes of central Asia attempted to adapt their enviornment.  A fascinating idea, right?  Unfortunately, even though he promises to do this, he never really does.  Instead, he has written short impressionist pieces on civilizations around the world, lumping them together superficially.  There is very little structure to this work; Fernandez-Armesto never details the irrigation techniques in one area and compares them to another; he never closely examines the deforestation process in North America and northern Euorpe; in short, he never does any of the things he promises to do.<br />Despite this ambitious failure, the book is still entertaining, educational, and stimulating.  Fernandez-Armesto has put out a new schema for the study of human history, but it appears that it will be up to someone else to do real analysis.	2002-11-16
US	49693503	R3ROZOMYYGGK48	0871311321	751689303	The Birth of Europe	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Good companion, but don't start here	Robert Lopez was one of the best medieval historians ever.  In his specialization, economic history, he was responsible for much ground-breaking and revolutionary work.  Like all historians who master their field, Lopez set out, at the end of his career, to write his own survey work on medieval history.  This is it.<br />He wrote this for himself, and the pleasure he got from doing so shows clearly.  The problem, though, is that he did not really write the book for the uninitiated.  If you are not intimately familiar with the medieval period, this is not the survey book for you (try Strayer or Cantor).  If you are already familiar, this book will not offer anything new, but will provide you with many pleasurable hours.  Lopez's style is impressionistic and full of imagery.  He frequently takes an economic prespective on social change, which is unique in surveys, and has many excellent maps and illustrations.  Overall, this is nice book to read leisurely, but should not be used as reference book.	2002-11-12
US	49693503	RIFB022I2O3HA	0813511984	105054473	History of the Byzantine State	Books	4	22	24	N	N	Good survey	Ostrogorsky has put together a good single-volume survey of the thousand years of Byzantium.  The tale begins, standardly, with Diocletian and Constantine, and ends with the fall of Constantinople in 1453.  He takes an omniscient view of Byzantium, focusing neither on the lives and deeds of the Emperors nor the cultural and religious developments, but telling a well-balanced narrative.  In that it serves as a useful introduction.  However, Ostrogorsky writes without any passion, and fails to humanize the major figures.  There are, though, several excellent maps that put others to shame.  In all, the book is worth owning for the factual narrative and great maps.  If you are looking for an impassioned and entertaining story you should pick up John Julius Norwich instead.	2002-10-29
US	49693503	R1X57A2XA8G8PD	0195124995	965727335	For Cause and Comrades: Why Men Fought in the Civil War	Books	5	12	13	N	N	They speak for themselves	With this work McPherson has proved himself to be an outstanding research historian.  Many such historians cannot find the right balance between evidence and interpretation.  McPherson has done just that.  He provides for us a powerful forum for the soldiers to tell us themselves why they fought; but he also weaves their comments into a compelling story, providing keen insight, analysis and juxtaposition for Union and Confederate soldiers.  This is truly a great example of the Civil War as social history.	2002-10-28
US	49693503	RKLFXFJPMBWGT	0415059143	952518276	A History of Medieval Islam	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Nice introduction	Saunders has put together a nice introduction to the early history of the Islamic world.  At two hundred pages it is longer than most authors of long works dedicate to this period, but still short enough so as not to overwhelm the reader with unfamiliar people and places.  The best feature of Saunders treatment of this period is the manner in which he easily cuts through all the confusion of the many movements, particularly the various Shiite movements, to find the simplest way to explain them (and their importance).  Saunders also raises the interesting point that the Arabs became the inheritors of Hellenism via Rome and Persia, although he does not examine this in much detail.  Written in clear language, brief, concise, and efficient, this is a nice introduction to early Islamic society.	2002-10-28
US	49693503	R3OC9UO1KZF1B	0198208022	797732014	The History of Government from the Earliest Times: Ancient Monarchies and Empires; The Intermediate Ages; Empires, Monarchies and the Modern State (3 Volume Set)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	A rare gem	Finer's triumphant work of comparative government history is a rare gem.  It is not often that a historical study is both deeply informative and perspective changing.  This book is both.  Finer does not simply outline the devolopment of government, but constructs an entirely new intellectual system for viewing, interpreting, and discussing government.  From there he moves on to trace the evolution of government from Sumer to the Industrial Revolution.  Every major development is explored, and many minor ones are also included.  <br />Finer shows a mastery of every time and place in history.  It is amazing that he can conver accurately and informatively Han civilization and then switch to an excellent discussion of Roman civilization.  The same skill with which he reconstructs the governments of Sumer and Egypt is applied later to the constitutional monarchies and revolutionary governments in modern Europe.  <br />Finer's masterpiece ought to be read by anyone interested in an objective study in how societies orgzanize themselves.  It is a highly useful reference that should be owned by anyone who works with history on a regular basis.	2002-10-20
US	49693503	R2AKFVJ0C6APE	080149169X	836248589	The Early Growth of the European Economy: Warriors and Peasants from the Seventh to the Twelfth Century (World Economic History Series)	Books	5	24	25	N	N	Ground-breaking, but outdated	Duby's work was ground-breaking in the 1960s, but has now become outdated.  That is not to say that his arguments and analyses have proven wrong or been supersceded.  It is outdated simply because it has been incorporated into much more detailed and comprehensive accounts written in the last thirty years (particularly by Norman Pounds).<br />That does not mean that this book is not worth reading.  Duby's piece still provides a unique perspective.  Although the work as a whole has been incorporated into much bigger books, no one has focused on the same characteristics that he has.  Duby writes wonderfully on the gift and plunder economy, the importance of the medieval world-view to economic growth, and the change in technology.  Duby's work is most valuable, however, for the image it creates.  Duby follows in the French tradition of writing &quot;impressionist histories.&quot;  In this way Duby gives an excellent idea of what it was like to live in the early medieval period.  In many ways The Early Growth of the European Economy is the perfect companion to Marc Bloch's Feudal Society.<br />This book is still worth reading because of the focus it has and the impression it gives.  At under three hundred pages, it is a quick read, and provides an excellent introduction to the topic.	2002-10-20
US	49693503	R3JF12SLWA7TKW	0712311254	471341572	Meddling with Ghosts: Stories in the Tradition of M.R. James	Books	4	6	9	N	N	Big on literary history, small on horror	Campbell's collection is unique.  He attempts to -- and does -- capture the the aura of M.R. James' horror work.  He has collected pieces from before James, contemporary to James, and since James.  Most of them are entertaining and well-written, but they do inspire terror in the reader.  If you are looking for a collection of quaint ghost stories, you have found it.  If you are looking for horror, look elsewhere.	2002-10-18
US	49693503	R1VTEG710DY3LL	0195076060	245616651	Abraham Lincoln and the Second American Revolution	Books	5	3	6	N	N	Enlightening	Abraham Lincoln and the Second American Revolution is a collection of seven related essays by James M. McPherson.  Each essay shows us a perspective from which the Civil War can be seen as a &quot;revolution.&quot;  They are all provocative and intense -- two things that are rare in history.  From the first page to the last you'll be saying to yourself &quot;I never thought of it that way before ...&quot;  A must for anyone even remotely interested in the Civil War.	2002-10-17
US	49693503	R3TLG3C2GV7FSJ	0843950463	280047850	Night in the Lonesome October	Books	4	37	44	N	Y	It isn't very good ... but I really enjoyed it	There is no getting around it:  Night in the Lonesome October is not a good book.  The premise, apparently, is to take a common setting (nightime in a small college town) and turn into something strange.  Laymon sets this up with some skill, but, ultimately, fails to deliver on it.  There is nothing sinister or evil going on in this town, just a lot of unexamined bizarre people who happen to be out at night.  The plot is virtually non-existant, and the characters are horribly under-developed.  The setting, which ought to be subtle, is repetitive and blunt.  There is some sort of sexuality every five pages, all of it unrealistic and gratuitous.<br />In the end, what we are left with is a book that is not really a novel at all, but a series of fantasies that Laymon has about his college years.  It would be great if we could all meet a young, gorgeous, intelligent, and funny woman who has read our favourite book and likes to have sex all the time and in any location.  Greater still, would be to have to choose between her and the mysterious, yet sensitive and beautiful, woman.  Or, even better, to have them both ...<br />What could have been a believable series of mishaps is destroyed by using characters that belong in a romance novel than characters that are actually representative of a bunch of college kids.<br />Yet ... I really enjoyed the first three-quarters of the book, and was only slightly let down by the ending.  Certainly, after finishing the book and thinking about it, I realize that is not good, but it is good fun.  If you have a lot of time, or are looking for a quick escape, this is a good book for you.  You will enjoy the experience, even if you might feel a little guilty for it later.  If you are in search of a \\"horror\\" book that will thrill and shock you, this isn't it at all.<br />Finally, there is an interesting aside.  There is a Roger Zelazny book of the same name that has a similar feel to it.  Both authors have taken the same vague premise of inhabiting a typical setting with strange people, and seeing how things work out.  Zelazny's book is significantly better, but it may not fulfill the same entertainment desires as Laymon's.  Definitely give it a read, though.	2002-10-10
US	49693503	R8JEMSRZF09ZE	0582482666	871133767	An Economic History of Medieval Europe	Books	5	15	15	N	Y	Comprehensive and wonderful	Norman Pounds has put together the comprehensive book for understanding medieval Europe through the study of economic systems.  The book is designed for the medieval specialist, but a non-specialist would easily understand the material.  The first three chapters, which are a chronological introduction to the topic, are absolutely spectacular and could easily stand on their own.  The next five chapters deal with the topic thematically.  There are chapters on population, agriculture, manufacturing, trade, and towns.  Each chapter treats the subject chronologically, and are packed with insight.  The final two chapters discuss the economic changes taking place in the Late Medieval period.<br />Pounds has really mastered the material, including the most comprehensive bibliography ever assembled.  Much space is devoted to discussing the evidence and the historiographical debate surrounding each sub-topic.  Perhaps the only downfall to Pounds' wonderful work is that it is really limited to the periods from which there is substantial evidence.  Outside of Chapter Two, the Early Medieval period is hardly discussed.  This is, however, made up for with spectacular analysis in the later periods.<br />Finally, the graphics alone make this book worth the hunt.  There are amazing maps, charts, graphs, and illustrations all over this book, all of which are quite usefull.	2002-10-09
US	49693503	RHSDN1DDSZB6W	0801821584	253524655	The Grand Strategy of the Roman Empire: From the First Century A.D. to the Third	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Intriguing	Edward Luttwak is the premiere scholar of contemporary grand strategy.  In this book he brings his unique talents to the problem of Imperial Roman grand strategy.  Luttwak has put together a fine and scholarly analysis of how the Romans kept their empire secure, and, how, ultimately, they failed to do so.<br />The book is divided into three chronological sections.  In the first Luttwak discusses the system under the early empire (or principate) from Augustus to Nero.  He describes this system as being the &quot;Republican Imperial system,&quot; by which he means that the system of empire used here was the old hegemonic system employed by the expanding Republic.  Luttwak clearly praises this system for getting the most security at the lowest cost.<br />Part two deals with the system from Vespasian to Marcus Aurelius.  Luttwak describes the system in this period as being fundamentally different from that of the first.  This system reflects the changed nature of the Empire from a hegemonic power to a state power.  The chief object was no longer to defend Rome and Italy, but to provide complete security for every province of the Empire.<br />The third part is focused on the military (and general) crisis of the third century.  In this section Luttwak looks at the cost of maintaining a defensive system in relation to the benefits of doing so.  Ultimately, he argues, the Roman Empire had to collapse because the benefits the provinces associated with being a memeber of a larger state were not worth the cost.<br />It has been argued that Luttwak ascribes too much clarity of thought and purpose to the systems he describes.  Other scholars have said that there is no evidence to support the thesis that the Roman Imperial machine ever sat down and planned a defensive system.  Of course this is true, and does not counter what Luttwak is saying.  Indeed, Luttwak himself says that the system was not necessarily planned as a whole, but evolved from responses to specific crises.  Hesays, actually, that the lack of a &quot;grand strategy&quot; actually led to the collapse of the imperial system in the west.  The primary evidence for this, as Luttwak argues, is that in the third period, whenever possible, the Romans reverted to the defensive strategy of the second period despite the fact that it was clearly outdated.  Others have argued against Luttwak's analysis by claiming that the tactics used in one part of the Empire were dissimilar to those used in another.  He does not make a claim counter to this, though.  In fact, one of the strengths of this book is that it provides much detail on the different ways that the overall concept of a particular strategy was employed in the different regions of the Empire.<br />Finally, the language Luttwak uses here is concise and clear, and definitely understandable by people unfamiliar with the jargon of the military and historical communities.  In addition to this astute and understandable analysis are lots and lots of excellent maps and diagrams.  They alone are worth the price of the book.<br />Anyone interested in the Roman Empire or military history must read this ground-breaking work.  As the debate on the policies of the Roman Empire continues, Luttwak's work will continue to be a prominent point of refference.	2002-10-06
US	49693503	R3JDBUJ5FC1S0Z	0674160568	305697349	The Confederate War	Books	4	11	13	N	N	Interesting Attempt	Gary Gallagher is one of the most argumentative Civil War historians writing today.  Practically every piece that he writes is controversial in at least one way.  The Confederate War is no exception.<br />His principal thesis is to determine, not why the CSA lost the war, but &quot;Why did so many Confederates fight for so long?&quot;  He attempts to answer this question by examining Southern feelings of nationalism, popular will, and the CSA's military strategy.  <br />This work is primarily an apoligist's response to recent criticism of the CSA war effort, and some of the commonly held assumptions about why the war was concluded in the manner that it was.  Many of Gallagher's assertions are intriguing, and occasionally refreshing.  Unfortunately, he is so determined to prove that the CSA has been slandered that he frequently contradicts himself.  Let me provide you with one example.  <br />In the second section he attempts to prove that Southerners did have nationalist feelings about the CSA.  As evidence of this he claims that towards the end of the war the CSA was considering arming slaves.  Gallagher cites letters from soldiers that make referrence to this possibility and embrace it.  In the third part, though, which analyzes CSA military strategy, he claims that the fear of slave rebellions made conducting a guerilla war impossible, and that historians who claim that having done so would have secured their independence are not looking at the situation properly.  There are several other instances in which Gallagher uses an example to make a point, and then uses the counter example to make another.<br />This waffling does detract from the scholarly quality of the book, but it should not deter you from giving it a read.  Gallagher is one of the most widely respected Civil War historians, and for good reason.  The emotional nature of this book should not tarnish that reputation; in many ways it makes the book all the more interesting.	2002-10-03
US	49693503	R275V02ZEC17TG	0966896882	327081581	City of Saints and Madmen	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Amazingly fantastic	It has been a long time since I've been this excited about being introduced to an author.  Indeed, VanderMeer reminds me of the last author to get me this excited, Gene Wolfe.  VanderMeer displays the same fine mastery and appreciation for the language as Wolfe, delights in weaving atypical plots as Wolfe does, and for making unexceptional people the focus of a story -- again, as Wolfe does.<br />Now, if you haven't read any Gene Wolfe (you should do that as soon as you get done with this book), let me explain what that means:  pure and absolute delight.  Every piece (and it is hard to determine how many there actually are) is stunning in its complexity and richness.  Prose like this comes along about once a decade, and I'm glad to be participating in it.<br />Read this book!	2002-10-03
US	49693503	R1V82CB0OPO96J	0521397413	501091535	The Medieval Spains (Cambridge Medieval Textbooks)	Books	4	23	28	N	Y	Concise yet broad introduction	Bernard Reilly would have a difficult time convincing anyone that he is an exciting writer.  Fortunately for us, he is a good writer.  Reilly manages to give a solid omniscient introduction to an obscure topic in just over two hundred pages.  If the book were any longer it would be difficult to get through; if it were any shorter it would not be as informative.<br />What is unique about Reilly's book is that it takes an omniscient view of medieval Spain.  Most books tend either to concentrate on Al-Andalus or on the Christian states in the north.  Here, each is represented (althought the Christian states do seem to get more attention) well.  Reilly spends plenty of time on the &quot;fun stuff&quot; of history, but also on the economic, legal, and religious issues.<br />As I alluded to above, this book is dry.  It is, however, necessary.  So pick it up, get through it, and then you will be able to move on to some of the more exciting books on the subject (Hugh Kennedy's, for example).	2002-10-02
US	49693503	R2UFYL9M165B0O	0316545031	140919625	The Last Lion: Winston Spencer Churchill: Visions of Glory 1874-1932	Books	5	196	201	N	N	This is the real thing	There are many good biographies out there, but a great one is rare.  This is one of the great ones; William Manchester has taken the art of biography to a new level.  Most biographies are merely &quot;interesting,&quot; rarely making any effort to give the reader a sense of what it would have been like to be or know the subject.  Manchester does just that.  Rather than write a narrative story of Winston Churchill's life, he has chosen instead to give us a rich tapestry of Chrchill's life as it was woven.  Many biographers are simply idolizers of their subjects; this is not so with Manchester.  He reserves no harsh judgment, just as he reserves no due praise; when he is reporting something negative that Winston did he says it was negative, and explains why.<br />But The Last Lion is more than just a biography.  In attempting to capture the essence of Churchill Manchester has written some of the best material about World War I and the appeasement crisis.  It is rare that historical events can be made to feel like the present, but Manchester has done this.<br />Both volumes of this work are well worth your money, your time, and your attention.  Indeed, the only bad part of Manchester's biography is that he will not be able to finish it.  It is not known how much of the third volume he was able to put together before Alzheimer's made work impossible for him, but it can be hoped that whatever he was able to do will someday be published, no matter how unpolished it may be.	2002-09-28
US	49693503	R2O8W9V3VRTE3P	0913165581	345563051	Prayers to Broken Stones	Books	4	15	16	N	N	Nice variety	Although this is mainly a collection of Simmons's early horror work, there is an astonishing amount of variety.  There are classic ghost and vampire stories, science fiction horror pieces, science fiction work, and a few stories which defy categorization.  As a whole the collection is fun, with the author's introductions as interesting and entertaining as the stories themselves.  Each story is well written and enjoyable to read.  If you've been disappointed with much of Simmons's recent work, you won't be with this collection.	2002-09-22
US	49693503	RM49W2Y0YABX8	0679721975	401105537	A History of Venice	Books	5	46	46	N	N	Great	Norwich is one of the most eloquent writers still working today.  This huge history of the Venetian state is one of his best.  He takes us through a wild narrative beginning with the late Roman period and ending with the surrender to Napoleon.  Norwich's portrait of medieval Venice is magnificent.  It is easy to forget that the situation in France, Britain, and Germany at this time was not the same situation in Italy, and that Venice was in a better situation than the rest of the peninsula.  With this work we really get a sense of how magnificent medieval Venice was.  Rivalled in Europe only by Constantinople and Cordoba.  Norwich has often been accused of focusing too much on individual rulers in his histories.  That is true of A History of Venice, but in this case it is a major benefit.  The narrative becomes so personal and so exciting because of this narrow focus.  This really is a great book, and anyone interested in medieval or Meditteranean history should definitely read it.	2002-09-15
US	49693503	RAY69YUXNVZ0R	0195044584	635385770	Before France and Germany: The Creation and Transformation of the Merovingian World	Books	5	36	37	N	N	Enlightening	Geary's work is an enlightening look at the transformation from the Roman to the medieval in the transalpine Roman provinces.  Geary easily dispels the myth of barbarian invasions and the &quot;fall&quot; of Rome.  A complex and weary narrative is turned into a simple and intersting one.  Geary does not waste his time (and ours) in pointless name-dropping.  He gets right down to the core of the social, economic, and political story.  Additionally, Geary quietly, but effectively, addresses one of the major controversies in early medieval studies:  what was the economic impact of the Germanic migrations?  This book is a must have for anyone interested in the classical or medieval periods and goes a long way to clearing up a lot of misconceptions.	2002-09-15
US	49693503	RE6O9M1LR3R41	081392104X	497463097	Apostles of Disunion: Southern Secession Commissioners and the Causes of the Civil War (A Nation Divided: Studies in the Civil War Era)	Books	5	16	27	N	N	Refreshing	Adult Americans are often heard to say that \\"the Civil War was not about slavery; it was about states' rights.\\"  This statement (and ones similar to it) betray two poor assumptions the speakers make:  that they were first told that slavery was the cause, but view that as juvenile because they were juvenile when they first heard it; that the answer must be one or the other.  Both of these assumptions are false.  There is no reason that what is commonly said is necessarily false, or to think that there was only a single cause of the Civil War.  Dew makes an error in this book in claiming to answer the question \\"what was the singular cause of the Civil War.\\"  Although any attempt to answer this question will inevitably be wrong there is no reason to dismiss the rest of the work as wrong.      What Dew does manage to do is show that the issues of slavery and states' rights were intertwined.  Why would Southerner's have cared about whether or not the Federal Government had the authority to abolish slavery if slavery was not immensely important?  The answer, of course, is that they would not have.  Dew examines the speeches of Deep Southerners sent to Western and Border states to convince their legislative bodies secede to show exactly why slavery was such an emotional issue for Deep Southerners.  The answer is racism; and more specifically, fear of emancipation under any terms.  The three common points made in the speeches of all fifty-two secessionist commissioners were:  white supremacy (and the fear of being made equal); a race war in the South; and the genetic (and, obviously, sexual) mingling of the two races.    An interesting point that Dew makes in his introduction and his conclusion is that many of the major powers of the CSA retracted their racist statements immediately after the war.  It was them -- Davis, Stephens, and many of the secessionist commissioners -- that began to perpetuate the myth of \\"states' rights.\\"  It is as if they realized that there only escape from shame was to become martyrs for an honorable cause -- and that slavery was not it.    Finally, Dew's work is simply a short and refreshing look at an ignored aspect of the five months between Lincoln's election and the attack on Ft. Sumter.  These hundred pages are very much worth your time.  I look forward to reading more of Dew in the future, and I am certain that, after reading Apostles of Disunion, you will too.	2002-09-14
US	49693503	R17BJYH7U38DX1	0575035668	941016247	Songs the Dead Men Sing	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Great little collection	This early collection of Martin's stories contains some of his best.  Even at just over two hundred pages there are two award winners in here.  Sandkings and Nightflyers are two of the best pieces of contemporary short SF and should be read by anyone who is a fan of the genre.  The other stories in the collection are mainly horror pieces, but with an SF edge to them.  They are all good, and most are excellent.  Hopefully Martin will return to this sort of work when he gets done trying his hand at High Fantasy.	2002-08-30
US	49693503	R2B9V467AYNN3R	0684803860	59773996	The Daughter of Time	Books	5	8	9	N	N	A tiny and refreshing novel	The Daughter of Time is a pleasant mixture of mystery novel and revisionist history.  The book itself is thin, and there isn't much of a plot to the story, but the descriptive prose is wonderful and the characters really do seem real (even if rather dull).<br />The premise is that an injured homicide detective is recouperating in a London hospital and, out of boredom, begins to read up on the infamous Richard III.  After a few selections he begins to suspect that Richard's infamy may not be well-deserved, so he enlists the support of a young amateur research historian (a friend of an acquaintance) to unravel this &quot;mystery.&quot;  There are no surprises throughout the evolution of the story; it plods along just as you would expect, but it is never boring.  The realistic modern characters and the intriguing story of the Yorks and Tudors combine for an entertaining and refreshing work of short fiction.  It is a fun little book that would be well-placed in high school English classes, where it would easily foster interest in both literature and history.	2002-08-28
US	49693503	ROVEDH04NUD06	0304352845	423622789	The Punic Wars	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Accessible, useful, great	One of the most confusing dramas throughout human history is the Second Punic War; the nature of the First and Third, although more easily understood, simply add to this confusion. Adrian Goldsworthy has put together a narrative history that easily solves this problem. The story he presents is clear, concise, and devoid of an overemphasis on unfamiliar names.<br />This single-volume history of all three conflicts is clearly the best out there. Goldsworthy does an excellent job of neutrally explaining the cuases of all three (difficult to do, as all the sources are Roman). The conflict is expertly explained without getting bogged down in the details of too many individual battles. Strategy and tactics are explained as resulting from the technology and culture of the time in a way that is both informative and interesting.<br />One of the best aspects of this book is that it is filled with maps, and that they are placed in the book at the precise moment when you need to consult one. This is so rare in contemporary writing that praise for this should be counted doubly.<br />The one detractor of the book is that it is lacking in illustrations. Naval and siege technologies are described in some detail, yet very few complimentary illustrations or diagrams are offered. However, I'll (and I assume you will too) take the maps over the illustrations any day.<br />Essentially, this is the finest book on the subject, and is highly recommended for readers of all historical interests...	2002-08-22
US	49693503	RYI9JMMETOWQM	0500250235	764982132	A History of Byzantine Civilization	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent accessory	Haussig has written the definitive volume on Byzantine culture and scoiety.  The book is set up as a series of sociiological slices from the different eras of Byzantine history, and traces the evolution of particular aspects of Byzantine culture.  The book's barrage of goregeous photographs and illustrations are a great complement to Haussig's splendid writing.  In addition to being one of the greatest works on Byzantine history this book contains one of the best summaries of how and why the Western Empire disintegrated while the Eastern Empire survived.  This book can't help but be both useful and entertaining.	2002-08-21
US	49693503	R3P3QSAM7MAANC	0753808153	915601040	Cities in Civilisation (Phoenix Giants)	Books	5	22	22	N	Y	Stupendous achievement	Cities in Civilization is a magnificent monument to human creativity, ingenuity, and beauty.  More than half of this thousand page book is dedicated to examining the &quot;golden ages&quot; of various cities, searching for both commonalities and distinguishing characteristics.  The first three hundred pages are devoted to creative and artistic golden ages, beginning with classical Athens and ending with Weimar Berlin, passing through Renaissance Florence, Elizabethan London, Vienna in the long nineteenth century, and Paris between war with Prussia and the first war with Germany.  The next two hundred pages deal with innovative golden ages, beginning with industrial Manchester and ending with post-war Tokyo, passing though steam-ship Glasgow, Berlin of the Kaisers, Ford's Detroit, and Silicon Valley.  Thirdly, Hall looks at the combinations of the creative and innovative urges that created golden ages in Los Angeles in the early twentieth century and Memphis in the middle of the same century.  Finally, Hall spends the last half of the book scrutinizing the various ways that cities have combatted crowding, scarce resources, pollution, disease, transportation, and employment throughout history.  This section begins with imperial Rom and ends with contemporary London, passing thorugh early industrial London, Haussmann's Paris, New York after the reconstruction of the American South, Los Angles throughout the twentieth century, and socialist Stockholm.  Through the entire journey Hall takes us through twenty-one cities and eras, showing us their greatness as well as the factors that made them so.  The journey is fantastic and brilliant.  Hall shines as a historian, and displays a deep understanding of true scholarship and the academic process.  Alternative views are always presented in an unbiased way, and when the accuracy of information (oftne the case up until the late modern period) cannot be determined he let's that be known.  Hall does an excellent job of showing how people lived in these different times and locations, showing us that the notion and nature of a &quot;golden age&quot; has itself changed over time.  A small detractor from the quality of the book is that there are no maps, and very few (proportionally) photographs and illustrations, but the main detractor is simply that it couldn't be longer.  This is a stupendous achievement that you won't want to put down.	2002-08-21
US	49693503	R1B9ENMYUWKISD	0441009123	718327533	Chasm City	Books	5	8	11	N	N	Definite Hugo nominee	With his second novel Reynolds shows us that he is capable of creating a realistic and diverse multi-planet society -- something that has always been rare.  Chasm City is set in the same imaginary future as Revelation Space and his Conjoiner stories, but is highly unique.  Reynold's has displayed an ability for recognizing that all societies are complex and diverse, and that societies that have larger populations, cover more territory, and have tougher barriers between different sections must be more so.  So, Chasm City is an entirely different type of story that Revelation Space was, and can easily be read by itself.  Whereas Revelation Space mixed archaelogical fiction, space opera, and technological science fiction Chasm City is an effective blend of space opera and detective story (with some odder elements also thrown in).<br />Reynolds is able to tell a primary story while also using flashbacks and dreams that may or may not be actual memories in a way that does not impede the progression of the plot.  One detractor to the story's progression is that there is simply one too many surprises.  Although every surprise and plot twist Reynold's used was crucial to the story, the book would be significantly better if he had found a way to work without some of them. Perhaps the difficulty was simply that the last surprise came too close to the end to be as shocking as it was significant; in the future Reynolds may want to make some of these revelations more gradual and subtle.<br />Chasm City is definitely the best SF novel of the year so far, and is a definite Hugo candidate.  Alastair Reynolds is proving to be one of the freshest authors to come into SF in the last decade, as well as an ability to master contemporary space opera.  The SF community in particular, and the literature community in general are better off for having published his work.	2002-08-21
US	49693503	RC65Z3V5P3VES	0394537793	338373253	Byzantium: The Apogee	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Climax	This, the second volume of Norwich's Byzantine history, is the climactic center of the story.  The book begins with Charlemagne's corronation in 800 -- an act that destroyed the idea of a universal Christendom -- and concludes with the battle of Manzikert in 1071 -- one of the most consequential and regrettable military losses in European history.  In between we learn about the Viking impact on Byzantium, conflicts with Kievan Rus, the rise of the Bulgar Empire, and the growing and intensifying conflict between Orthodoxy and Catholicism.  Family and court intrigues are illuminated, while changes in religion, art, and leisure are explained.  Norwich uses his amazing command of the English language to take us on a wild rollercoaster ride through the changing fortunes of Europe's chief protector, finally leaving us with a strong sense of the impending doom in store for both Byzantium and Europe as a whole.	2002-08-13
US	49693503	R2A1FL7THU0IZ1	0345435281	796467564	Vitals	Books	2	2	2	N	N	Huh?	When I heard that Greg Bear had written another contemporary bioscience fiction novel I became excited.  Unfortunately, my excitement came to nothing.  Vitals does not follow in the tradition of Bear's Darwin's Radio and Blood Music.  Instead it is more of an action/political thriller novel with shallow characters, ambiguous conspiracies, and far-fetched science.  Don't be fooled by the first few chapters of the book!  Although they are fiction about science and scientists, most of the book has nothing to do with either.  If Greg Bear's intention was to write a book that could bridge the gap between science fiction and political thriller he failed miserably; Vitals does not work well as either, and works worse as both.	2002-08-13
US	49693503	R1T246VSJ57N8E	0345349571	162225088	A Distant Mirror:  The Calamitous 14th Century	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Fascinating portrait	With A Distant Mirror Tuchman has created a fascinating portrait of late-medieval Europe. She uses the life and career of a wealthy and talented French noble to give us a view of the principal events of the fourteenth century through the eyes of a contemporary. By doing this Tuchman not only provides herself with manageable material, but also depicts the historical narrative from the inside out, rather than from the outside in. Many historians have attempted to do this, but Tuchman is the first to avoid the trap of subjectivity.<br />In addition to following the life and times of one person, Tuchman spends a large portion of the book illustrating the setting in which the story takes place. No other writer has depicted the troubles of the changing weather patterns and plague that brought about the chaos of the late-medieval period with the passion and humanity that Tuchman has. Tuchman has also endeavored to show life and history as they happened for peasants, serfs, and the urban poor in a way that is meaningful to the rest of the material.<br />Finally, I would like to say that A Distant Mirror could make a great positive impact on the way history (as both the finite past and something that is always happening) is understood if it were used in schools -- and that is the highest praise I can give.	2002-08-13
US	49693503	R1TZ2NJZFK4VGG	0679416501	716006333	Byzantium: The Decline and Fall	Books	5	14	15	N	N	The not-so-triumphant triumphant conclusion	The final volume of Norwich's Byzantine history is a literary trimph, despite the disintegrating nature of the civilization being written about.  In this volume Norwich begins in the aftermath of the battle of Manzikert in 1071 and finishes with the conquest of Constantinople by the Ottomans in 1453.  Norwich uses his elegant prose style to present this tragic story in a highly moving way.  <br />All three volumes read like a eulogy at the funeral of beloved relative.  In this period of dehumanizing social sciences Norwich brings the people of the past alive, and treats them with respect and dignity even when their behavior does not necessarily inspire kind treatment.  The role and majesty of Byzantium has been overlooked in the West for centuries; in doing his best to rectify that Norwich has created one of the masterpieces of historical writing.	2002-08-13
US	49693503	R2CAO0AK5S9OFF	0674399749	313698697	A History of Private Life, Volume I: From Pagan Rome to Byzantium	Books	4	47	49	N	N	Motley crew	This is the first volume of a multi-author endeavor to trace the changes in private attitudes, beliefs, benaviors, and lifestyles from the early Roman Empire to the late twentieth century. The first volume begins with the early Roman Empire and ends with the apogee of the Byzantine Empire. Containing five lenghty essays by different authors (mainly French -- the whole project is a French one) dealing with the early Roman Empire, the late Roman Empire, housing and architecture in Roman Africa, Merovingian Gaul, and tenth and eleventh-century Byzantium. <br />The project is a fresh and invigorating look at the ways that societies change. There are several excellent illuminations in this book. We are shown that the notion of Roman \\"sexual liberation\\" is not well-founded; that Christianity did not change Western views on sex and the body, but that Christianity adopted the views of the poorer (and more numerous) Roman classes; how architecture can reveal much about a society; and that the major change between the late Empire and the early medieval had to do with notions of \\"private\\" and \\"public.\\"<br />Although the book is interesting and useful, there are some reasons to criticize it. Most of the attention is given to the early Roman Empire, which consumes almost one third of the book. Entirely too much space is given to the chapter on architecture in Roman Africa -- it is significantly longer than the chapter on the late Empire. The chapter entitled \\"The Early Middle Ages in the West\\" is really only about Merovingian Gaul, and does not always have the change between the late Empire and early medieval as a focus. The chapter on Byzantium did not seem to fit with the rest of the book. The reason for including Byzantium in this volume rather than the next volume (Middle Ages) was to show Byzantine culture as a continuation of Roman culture. Unfortunately, the piece was not about the early Byzantine, but rather the middle Byzantine era, thus having no connection with the rest of the book. It is also dubious that the book begins with the Roman Empire, not the Roman Republic or classical Greece. Paul Veyne says that this decision was made because Rome was essentially Greek in character, and that a section on Greece and a section on Rome would be repetitive. This is weak reasoning at best, but, given the lenght of the book as it stands now, it may still have been a good decision. Finally, the book is not footnoted or endnoted. There is a lengthy bibliography and a small notes section in the back, but assertions, ideas, and evidence are not clearly referenced. I do not know if this is how French scholarship is done, or if this major chunk of scholarship was left out in the interest of marketing the book to a lay audience. Either way, it is frustrating, and only hurts the academic value of this major project.<br />Despite these critical comments, I view the book as an excellent effort and an enlightening read. Too often history is about events, not people, and these historians have made a noble attempt to humanize our past.	2002-08-10
US	49693503	R1HIBAUIRMDNH	0394537785	716006333	Byzantium (I): The Early Centuries	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Definitive	Norwich's three volume history is the definitive narrative history of the Byzantine Empire from Diocletian to the Ottoman conquest of Constantinople in 1453.  This first volume begins with the original division of the Roman Empire by Diocletiona and ends with the crowning of Charlemagne as the Roman Emperor.<br />Norwich shows us the first five centuries of Byzantine history as a continuation of the Roman Empire.  We see the Justinian administrative reforms and his reconquest of Italy and Africa; Heraclius's successful (short term, as he points out) war against the Sassanid Persians; the influence of early Islam and the loss of the wealthiest Imperial territories to the Arabs; and, finally, the way that Byzantium was viewed from western Europe.<br />Along the way he comments on the \\"what-if's\\" of history through the lens of perfect hindsight.  We learn that despite Justinian's \\"greatness\\" his megalomania began the long decline of the Empire; that Heraclius's amazing victory over the Sassanids resulted in long-term failure to defend Egypt and Syria from the Arabs; and that the very wealth and ostentation that made Constaninople glorious created many jealous enemies.<br />If you are looking for a good history through which you can learn the major outline of events in early Byzantine history your search is over.  If you are looking for elegant historical prose and a thoughtful historical narrative, your search is over, too.  Norwich's work cannot be too highly regarded.	2002-08-10
US	49693503	RPXFLQNJZZ16R	0553103547	268067011	A Game of Thrones (Song of Ice and Fire)	Books	3	6	12	N	N	Fresh, but still a let-down	George R.R. Marin is one of the finest and innovative authors to enter the sibling genres of science-fiction and fantasy in the last thirty years.  As rumors of his return from televistion writing blossomed into rumors of an epic high-fantasy series I became extremely excited.  If anyone, I thought, can revitalize this ailing genre it would be George R.R. Martin.  Although this series has indeed turned out to be a fresh look at the genre, true revitalization is still far away.<br />Martin does bring some adult sophistication to the genre.  His characters are not one-dimensional, and are not \\"good\\" or \\"evil.\\"  Unfortunately, he has difficulty sustaining this.  There are characters that we are supposed to like, and characters that we are supposed to dislike.  To create this Martin has slumped to the classic high-fantasy trick of giving us \\"good guys\\" who \\"really care about the little people,\\" whom we never really see, and are never cared about as a whole (e.g. \\"I'm not going to tax them as much this year), but only as individuals.  The \\"bad guys\\" are all sharp-witted and care only about themselves, and somehow have managed to concoct far-fetched ideas of how to better their personal situation.  Although, each character appears to be a unique and complex individual at the beginning, by the half-way point they have become formulaic.  Every character has only one way of speaking, and only one topic to talk about, and it becomes tiresome and boring quickly.<br />These critical comments should, however, be put into perspective.  While Martin's series cannot stand out among good literature, it definitely can -- and does -- stand out among good high-fantasy literature.  So, if you have not yet become disillusioned about the genre, you may find this new series worth your time.  I still think, though, that you will find it difficult to make it all the way through the six proposed volumes before becoming tired of the series -- and the genre.	2002-08-08
US	49693503	R2KOKM5UPCQAA4	067972477X	111847135	I, Claudius From the Autobiography of Tiberius Claudius Born 10 B.C. Murdered and Deified A.D. 54 (Vintage International)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Greatness achieved	Robert Graves is one of those Britons who spent his early adulthood in the trenches of WWI and returned home to attain greatness in the field of literature; I, Claudius is a large contribution to that greatness.  Graves became a scholar of classical mythology (his work is still highly regarded), and it was this line of work that led him to conceive this fine piece of literature.  I, Claudius combines accurate history, a classical education, and (most importantly) an individual voice that shines clearly whether the narration is first-person or largely third-person, to create a highly detailed story that feels as if it really is the memoir of Tiberius Claudius.  This book will be interesting and entertaining to anyone interested in authors who are WWI veterans, historical fiction, the Roman Empire, history, or -- of course -- excellent literature.	2002-08-08
US	49693503	R19PTJR99WAUVE	0140114068	181024941	The Mask of Command	Books	5	5	6	N	Y	The greatest study in command	The Mask of Command is not a typical history.  Indeed, in many respects it is not a history at all.  What Keegan is after in this book is a glimpse at different styles and techniques of command used by different historical figures.  <br />First, it should be pointed out that it is \\"command,\\" not \\"leadership.\\"  The two terms, although frequently interchangeable, are not the same -- if you are looking for a tome that will advise you on how to be a leader in the business or sports environment, this is not it.  If you are interested in learning about military leadership, or thinking about its applications in other areas, this is the book for you.<br />Keegan takes us from Alexander to Hitler by way of Wellington and Grant.  Each one of these figures represents a different answer to the question:  out front -- sometimes, always, or never?  Describing these differences, comparing them in a vaccuum, and then explaining them contextually is Keegan's point, and he does it wonderfully.  Beginning with the personal mythos of Alexander, continuing with the distance of Wellington and the humility of Grant, and concluding with the concerned megalomania of Hitler, the book does a great job of exploring the different ways of creating a cult of personality, and inspiring subordinates.  The Mask of Command is the freshest look at the importance of military history in a generation.  This book will be invaluable to soldiers, business and sports leaders who need to move beyond John Maxwell, and teachers looking for a way to bring new meaning and importance to their classroom.	2002-08-08
US	49693503	R2JWE5XKFM2D46	0312285485	385557836	The Death of the West: How Dying Populations and Immigrant Invasions Imperil Our Country and Civilization	Books	3	11	22	N	N	Good writing, convincing argument, but ...	Buchanan has constructed a well written, excellently researched, and convincing argument.  Unfortunately, he fails to make a distinction between \\"white people\\" and \\"Western civilization.\\"  His major argument is that because the white population in the world is decreasing, Western civilization has no chance at survival.  Buchanan cites many historical examples of the downfall of civilizations as \\"proof.\\"  But, as far as historians, archaeologists, and anthropolgists can tell, white people have always been a minority in the world, and western civilization is still here.  <br />His primary example is the \\"fall of Rome.\\"  The problem with this analogy is that Rome didn't fall, and that immigration was of an entirely different sort in the late Roman empire.  First, Roman civilization didn't \\"fall,\\" or collapse, or get destroyed -- it simply changed.  Second, the immigration that helped bring about this change was not the immigration of individuals, but the immigration of entire ethnic groups.  This allowed those groups a greater ability to maintain their own culture in the face of Roman culture.  In the contemporary world -- North America and Europe -- this is not the case.  People come to America as individuals or small families.  They come here to be a part of Western civilization -- to partake of its wealth and glory, not to change or destroy it.  <br />It may well be true that in a century most Americans will not be white, but they will still be Americans.  Our system is designed to work, and it will continue to do so.  America changes its immigrants much more than it is changed by them.  Buchanan is not saying anything new.  Americans had this same fear when the Irish began to immigrate en masse, as well as when large amounts of Eastern Europeans came.  Buchanan acknowledges this, but says that that was different because they were white.  It is silly to think, however, that an Estonian has more in common with the Anglo-derived culture of America than someone from Mexico or China.<br />The Death of the West is not a rational argument against immigration.  It is nothing more than the same old financially-inspired paranoia repackaged and sold for a profit.	2002-08-07
US	49693503	R30DZU8D31HPRM	0231053517	609501363	God's Playground: A History of Poland, Vol. 1: The Origins to 1795	Books	5	67	71	N	N	Shining example of what historical writing should be	With God's Playground Davies has proven himself to be one of the greatest historians, historical writers, and historical theorists that the English language has known.  Davies combines the narrative and thematic approaches to achieve a historical study that provides a chronology of events as well as an understanding of deeper changes and cultural contexts.  Since you are reading this in the hopes that it will help you decide to buy the book, let me explain how Davies does this.  First, he provides a chapter that is written in the traditional narrative style from n-date to x-date.  Then he follows that up with several chapters on each facet of Polish life and how that developed from n-date to x-date.  Typically, he uses political, military, economic, religious, and cultural (the arts, etc.) as his primary themes.  By using this technique Davies is able to impart much more knowledge and much deeper understanding to his readers.  Finally, these two volumes also contain some of the best and most useful maps I have encountered in any history book.  The maps alone are worth the price of the book, and anyone teaching a European history course will find them to be invaluable in helping students understand Eastern Europe.	2002-08-07
US	49693503	R3FBG6KKFXYJJB	014011341X	243604121	The Second World War	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Best single-volume account	Keegan has put together the best single-volume account of World War II.  Keegan covers the war from its inception in the Japanese expansion in the early 30s to V-J day in August 1945.  The book's focus is mainly on strategy, giving the details of battles only when they can be used to make a larger point.  Keegan's prose, as usualy, is elegant and lucid.  What sets this book apart from other single-volume surveys is the focus Keegan gives to developing styles of combat -- amphibious, airborne, urban fighting, submarine, and naval air warfare.  Today it is easy to take for granted that these things were done, but Keegan gives us the true sense of danger and mystery that these new forms of combat had surrounding them.  Finally, the one detractor from Keegan's book is that there are not enough maps.  However, a good WWII atlas should fix that problem quickly.	2002-08-06
US	49693503	RF707Z59YDUM7	0895267063	714700767	The Arabs: A Short History	Books	5	14	16	N	N	This is the place to start	At just over two hundred pages, this book is the place to start learning Arabic history.  Although it is certainly not the most detailed or precise account, its brevity ensures that a novice will not be overwhelmed with strange names and minute details of unfamiliar events.<br />Hitti's Short History will be quite useful to social studies teachers who want to give their students short articles on Arabic history to read.  Each chapter in this book is short enough to serve that purpose.  There are also eight nice maps that will help students of all levels develop a better understanding of how Islam changed the world.	2002-08-06
US	49693503	R7F08OPI0RKP1	0805005013	555171378	The Poetry of Robert Frost: The Collected Poems, Complete and Unabridged (Owl Book)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	It's all here	Lathem's collection is THE collection of Robert Frost's poetry.  Nearly every Frost piece ever published is in this volume, and all organized chronologically.  Everyone should own this collection.	2002-08-05
US	49693503	R2BZKIYV7XFXX0	031286583X	952678908	Song of Kali	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Frightening atmosphere	Although award-winning, Song of Kali is definitely a B-grade Dan Simmons novel.   It does not share the high quality of the Hyperion Cantos or Summer of Night/A Winter Haunting.  However, it is still an excellent -- and frightening -- novel.  Simmons's outstanding use of a first-person voice and rich and varied description of Calcutta's oppressive climate and population density combine to create a powerful horror story.	2002-08-05
US	49693503	R1NA8ETZ1L7J1Y	8437609305	715447270	Canto General (Spanish Language Edition)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Epic poetic narrative	Neruda's Canto General is a poetic retelling of the history of South and Central America from the late pre-Columbian era to the middle of the twentieth century.  The book is set up like a novel, with chapters and subheadings, a straight-line narration, and a cast of characters.  Neruda's communist ideology is visible throughout the work and is a major theme.  Canto General leaves the reader with an interesting impression of American history seen through the eyes of the impoversihed people of South America, as well as an idea of how third-world communists perceive reality.  This is truly an excellent work, and should be read by everyone.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R23RRXMKJX0HFO	0933071264	10031363	Genesis: An Epic Poem	Books	5	10	11	N	N	Great	Epic poetry has lost its place in our culture.  The common reader is not interested in the discipline of verse writing, looking more for a simple and easily-accessible series of actions with a bit of descripition thrown in.  Turner's \\"Genesis\\" is a tribute to Homer, Virgil, the Arthurian tales, \\"Beowulf\\", and \\"the Song of Roland\\".  Turner's story is excellent, narrative and verse techniques wonderful, and characters deep and complex.  Anyone interested in epic poetry or science fiction as a genre should read this great work.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R3F5XS7IW0FI2C	0151001952	822131635	Among Angels: Poems	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Poetic fun	It is amazing that poetry has sunk so far in value to our culture that much of it has to be packaged as books for children.  In this wonderfully illustrated book, some of the best poems by Nancy Willard and Jane Yolen (both established authors of adult literature), all dealing with angels, have been collected.  This book is a great way to introduce children to the complexities and fun of poetry, but is also a good book for adults who appreciate fine poetry.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R1OKWE2L3XKYEL	0679726691	265445097	The Collected Poems of Wallace Stevens	Books	5	9	12	N	N	Ahhh.....	It has been said many times that Wallace Stevens is one of the five best and most influential American poets.  After reading this collection of poems it is impossible to disagree.  It is a marvelous experience to pick up this book and read a few poems.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R2SWL5LVWAY83O	086547477X	708472944	The Book of Images: Poems / Revised Bilingual Edition (English and German Edition)	Books	5	15	17	N	N	Great poetry, great translation, great text	Rilke ranks among the world's greatest poets.  Each poem in the Book of Images is an elegant snapshot of a beautiful world.  Snow's translation is superb, and he is commonly regarded as the preeminent English translator of Rilke's poetry.  This text contains the translation and the original German side-by-side so that readers can gain a better appreciation of Rilke.  The Snow translatio of the Book of Images is one of the greatest English-language poetic achievements.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R35EYV2HIK30WN	0156002167	23065269	View with a Grain of Sand: Selected Poems	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Nice little collection from a Nobel Prize winner	...Containing over eighty poems from seven original collections, this book serves as a well-rounded and pleasant introduction to Szymborska's work.  This is a good choice for anyone interested in good poetry, women under communist regimes, or Polish literature.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R13JLKZTSVMVJ4	0486275582	221362295	Ode to the West Wind and Other Poems	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Best dollar you'll ever spend	Shelley is one of the greatest English-language poets the world has ever known.  Contained in this Dover edition are some of the finest examples of his work:  Ozymandias; his two poetic elegies, Lines Written among the Euganean Hills and Adonais; and his depiction of his relationship with Byron, Julian and Maddalo.  These poems, and the others in this edition, offer an excellent introduction to Percy Shelley, and thus to Romanticism as a whole.  This is the best dollar that you will ever spend.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R3NK6VPF27W0XM	0812507185	622301616	Endangered Species	Books	4	6	26	N	Y	Outstanding, but too long	Wolfe's second short story collection is packed with excellence, but it goes on too long. At over five hundred pages and twenty stories, it is hard to maintain interest while reading straight through the book. The book is still worth reading, containing many stories of the highest quality, but I suggest reading through it at a slower pace.	2002-08-04
US	49693503	R2Z3C807JEMEL	0679450041	383312801	The Amazing Adventures of Kavalier & Clay: A Novel	Books	5	2	3	N	Y	Brilliantly sad	Chabon's Pulitzer Prize winning novel is brilliantly sad.  Filled with real people who have real conversations and do real things, Kavalier and Clay is a fantastic depiction of the discrepency between life as it really happens and life as it could be.  This discrepency is often gut-wrenching, and at times it is hard to separate reader from character -- but that is how all novels should feel.<br />Although the story is about two young men who create superheroes for a living, these creators are the novels true heroes.  Both are flawed, and in their flaws are both their greatness and their undoing.  Chabon makes us love these characters as few authors are capable of doing.<br />Truly the best novel of 2000, this book is definitely worth your time.	2002-07-29
US	49693503	R3MR6QD5C83QUK	0521347718	526436020	A History of the Crusades: Volume II The Kingdom of Jerusalem and the Frankish East, 1100-1187	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Outstanding achievement	This, the third volume in Runciman's three volume history, is an excellent finale.  The narrative focuses on the Acre, the last of the Crusader states, but the real treat is in Runciman's analysis of the effects of the Crusades.  Well written and excellently researched, this is the definitive history of the Crusades from a European view.	2002-07-26
US	49693503	R3J3KIYWI9BKWI	0830813217	521310626	The Singer/The Song/The Finale (The Singer Trilogy 1-3)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Beautiful writing, wonderful allegory	Miller's trilogy sits towards the top of the list of epic poetry. Written in a lyric style, with clarity and excitement, these lines cannot fail to move anyone. Miller has also done an excellent job of telling an allegorical tale without sounding unoriginal or uninspired. The Singer Trilogy ranks among the great achievements of twentieth-century verse.	2002-07-26
US	49693503	RXKN0JIBJAZ21	0521427053	123414811	The First Crusade (Canto)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Good survey, beautiful book	This abridgement couples Runciman's well narrated and concise account of the First Crusade with some beautiful illustrations of the Holy Land, medieval warfare, and Byzantine, Latin, and Muslim art.  It is a shame, however, that amongst all these wonderful illustrations, there is not one detailed map of the Holy Land and Asia Minor.  Still, the book is well worth having and reading.  If you haven't already read the unabridged edition you may want to read that as well.	2002-07-23
US	49693503	RCKQ7FJDCAFD7	0140422102	478372586	John Keats: The Complete Poems (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	22	24	N	N	Essential	No personal library can be complete without at least a sampling of Keats, and this is the book that everyone should get.  All the poems -- even the fragments -- are here, with line numbers included.  The several appendices and letter excerpts make the collection even more valuable.  If you are trying to decide which Keats collection to get, you have found the best.	2002-07-23
US	49693503	R18ODC7L6PLRJ7	0872860191	25979842	Kaddish and Other Poems: 1958-1960 (City Lights Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Nice little collection	Kaddish is Ginsberg's second most important work.  This edition contains all of Ginsberg's best pieces from the late Fifties:  Kaddish, Poem Rocket, Death to Van Gogh's Ear!, and The Reply.  Get this book and the Pocket Poets edition of Howl and you will be all set to enjoy Ginsberg.	2002-07-23
US	49693503	RY6YX0LKRCX1D	0312288794	497362215	The Year's Best Science Fiction: Nineteenth Annual Collection (No. 19)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	The best edition in years!	It has been years since Dozois has been able to put together a collection like this!  After several years of disappointing and mediocre collections, this anthology has again reached greatness.  If this collection is any indication of a trend in the overall quality of short SF being written, then we are all in for a great reading future!	2002-07-22
US	49693503	R23C380GW17NCS	0316518476	487438669	The Fifty Year Wound: The True Price of America's Cold War Victory	Books	5	7	9	N	N	This is the book we've been waiting for	America has been waiting for this book since 1991.  Leebaert has given us a rich and detailed account of what the Cold War cost the United States in resources, people, and money.  No one is sacred; no one is exempt from Leebaert's cold scrutiny.  The myths of Kennedy and Kissinger are shattered, and Reagan is finally put in perspective.<br />Leebaert's writing is often complex; one can easily get lost in his grammar.  But don't let that deter you from picking up this book; his research and analysis are top-notch.<br />You should know that this book, although proceeding in a chronological way, is not a history of the Cold War.  It is an analysis of what it cost the U.S.  If you don't have a good understanding of the outline of the Cold War, watch CNN's documentary before you tackle this book.	2002-07-22
US	49693503	RNTN0PVNV6C01	015694877X	740233698	The Waste Land and Other Poems	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Good and useful	This collection of Eliot's work is definitely a must-have.  It consists of 24 poems from two collections, and The Waste Land.  The selection and variety are good, and notes on The Waste Land are quite useful.	2002-07-22
US	49693503	RKUZXEUG6QA4U	0316545562	70090647	A World Lit Only by Fire: The Medieval Mind and the Renaissance: Portrait of an Age	Books	1	31	46	N	N	Stay away	William Manchester is an historian capable of excellent scholarship and astute analysis, but you wouldn't know it by reading this book.<br />Manchester commits the all too frequent mistake of viewing history from the present backward rather than from the past forward.  This leads him to make simplistic and erroneous statements about the &quot;Medieval Mind,&quot; view the Rennaissance as being detached from the Middle Ages, and claim that the &quot;voyages of discovery&quot; created the modern world.  The book reads more like a bad high school essay than a work by a distinguished historian and author.<br />Indeed, aside from the first thirty pages, the book isn't even about the medieval period.  In fact, much of it is not about the Rennaissance, either.  The book, which he admits, is mostly about Ferdinand Magellan.<br />So please, stay away from this book.  There is nothing to learn from it, and it may give you a bad idea of the kind of historian William Manchester really is.	2002-07-13
US	49693503	R3AE7ZFGTM0MF8	155670531X	38163866	Ancient Rome: History of a Civilization that Ruled the World	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Great visuals	This book is not much on narration -- but it isn't really supposed to be.  The book is filled with outstanding photographs, prints, drawings, maps, and architectural plans that will be useful to anyone in the business of teaching social studies.  This is one of those wonderfully inexpensive oversized hardcover books that makes you feel good just by owning it.	2002-07-12
US	49693503	R30UOADU7FYOMG	0631181598	55558398	A Companion to the Study of History	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Necessary reading for anyone in education	Stanford's book is necessary for anyone in any sort of education -- not just social studies.  Stanford takes through a course on the nature, meaning, importance, and utility of history and social studies.  His clarity and genius in pointing out the ways in which the same information can be interpreted differently by several people will be very useful to anyone who has been commissioned to convey information, inspiration, and inferential and analytical prowess to young people.  This is a book that makes you think ... and makes thinking fun.	2002-07-12
US	49693503	RGHRAT6QZFIQG	0226059782	275250412	001: Feudal Society, Volume 1: The Growth of Ties of Dependence	Books	5	26	27	N	N	On the top ten list for medieval studies	Bloch's work is one of the ten most important and influential books on medieval Europe.  Bloch displays true excellence in sholarship and narration.  Nothing is stated without factual documentation to support it, and no information is carried beyond its logical conclusions.  It is essential to read this two volume work before moving too deeply into medieval studies.  Combine this work with Strayer's Feudalism (out of print, unfortunately) and you will have a good understanding of what society was like in a good portion of the Middle Ages.	2002-07-12
US	49693503	RJMPS2U3XPJKT	0486277844	622280753	Selected Poems (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	You can't go wrong with this one	This is a great collection of thirty of Byron's short poems, arranged in chronological order.  Everyone should own at least one collection of Byron's work, and at this price, why not make this the one?	2002-07-12
US	49693503	R2BVN3J6W6EQ4P	0226059790	275250412	002: Feudal Society, Volume 2: Social Classes and Political Organization	Books	5	5	7	N	N	On the top ten list for medieval studies	Bloch's work is one of the ten most important and influential books on medieval Europe.  Bloch displays true excellence in sholarship and narration.  Nothing is stated without factual documentation to support it, and no information is carried beyond its logical conclusions.  It is essential to read this two volume work before moving too deeply into medieval studies.  Combine this work with Strayer's Feudalism (out of print, unfortunately) and you will have a good understanding of what society was like in a good portion of the Middle Ages.	2002-07-12
US	49693503	R59BFYX4FFWBA	039309152X	229045970	Byron's Poetry (Norton Critical Edition)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Great collection	This is a neat little collection of some of Byron's poetry and letters, and a few critical articles and reviews of his work.  It is a good place to start for anyone just getting interested in Byron's life and work.	2002-07-12
US	49693503	R14OSQ2J8F2Z33	0449005666	695742653	Ticket to the Opera: Discovering and Exploring 100 Famous Works, History, Lore, and Singers, with Recommended Recordings	Books	5	7	8	N	N	As entertaining as a novel, as useful as an encylopedia	Goulding has compiled a list of the 85 &quot;Greatest&quot; operas and given us detailed information about the story, the music, the composer, and the history of each one.  In many books about opera or classical music it is easy to get the sense that the author, while gladly taking your money, is scoffing at you for needing the book.  With Goulding one gets the sense that you could invite him over for a drink and have a great conversation.  So, get the book and start having fun.	2002-07-11
US	49693503	R3266ZI6C7TM2M	0138965986	114675884	A History of the Roman People	Books	5	24	24	N	N	Start Here	This is the most complete, concise, and up-to-date survey or Rome from c.1000 B.C. to c.600 A.D.  Along with the standard political, military, and legal narrative comes several chapters detailing Roman thought, religion, economy, agriculture, families, technology, and art.  Useufl maps are abundant in this edition.  Don't be awed by the price tag -- it is well worth it.	2002-07-11
US	49693503	R1GQJGETCMCRZP	0195143388	279645453	Classical Mythology	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Great introduction to the topic	Everyone should own a copy of this book.  It is the best sophisitcated introduction to classical mythology that is out there, and is filled with useful illustrations.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R3TT70C2GX6T6D	0060652926	338167986	Mere Christianity	Books	5	1	7	N	N	A must read	Lewis is the premiere theologian of the twentieth century.  He provides us with a lucid and concise commentary on Christianity that could only be conceived after experiencing the horrors of WWI.  Anyone who wishes to understand Christianity, the twentieth century, or Narnia, must read this book.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R183ZUAIMNJ552	0679751238	939095964	The Ends of the Earth: From Togo to Turkmenistan, from Iran to Cambodia, a Journey to the Frontiers of Anarchy	Books	5	10	12	N	N	This is the end	In The Ends of the Earth Kaplan shows how the world is falling apart. This is no ordinary travel book. Kaplan doesn't waste his time by travelling through France or Italy, pointing out nice Bed & Breakfasts. What he does is roam the Third World -- where most of the world's population lives -- and tells us what he observes. Kaplan says that the Third World will be forced into absolute chaos as resources become more scarce and populations increase. There are several instances in history where that combination had disastrous effects on First World nations -- the fall of the Western Roman Empire, the Viking invasions, the Mongol invasions, and WWII in the Pacific. Kaplan paints a vivid and terrifying picture of the near-future.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R221V9NUGAWACL	0684815036	398061990	History of Christianity	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Complex, and overly complicated for a survey work	Make no mistake, Johnson has written a fantastic book.  However, if you are not already familiar with some of the basic dogmas of early Church history, this book may not be a good place to start.  I suggest reading David Chidester's recent book before starting on Johnson.  You should also know that Johnson (and Chidester) completely ignore the existence of any of the Eastern Orthodox denominations.  Jaroslav Pelikan remains the only serious scholar to include the Orthodox in his survey of Christianity.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R1N2EYHF8KHSW8	0060915331	732260177	A History of the Jews	Books	4	3	5	N	N	LImited in scope	This is not exactly a history of the Jews.  What it is, however, is a history of Jews in the Western world -- and an excellent one, at that.  You should know, however, that the book is not comprehensive.  It is a narrative history, and it reads like a story.  There are no subsections that explain cultural, religious, or linguistic topics -- just a plodding narrative.  If that is what you are after, this is a great book for you.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R3CJQNT208MOE6	0812694333	476681057	The Simpsons and Philosophy: The D'oh! of Homer (Popular Culture and Philosophy)	Books	5	1	5	N	N	How could it not be great?	Irwin, et.al., who brought us Seinfeld and Philosophy, have done it again.  Anyone who is a fan of the Simpsons, philosophy, or serious fun, must read this book.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R5O9O6ZDW1RU6	0062517082	772299140	Christianity: A Global History	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Decent survey	It is extremely difficult to write a one-volume history of Chrisitianity -- even if you are not pursuing it around the globe.  Chidester has done and excellent job in keeping his focus broad, and not getting bogged down in the details.  If, however, you are looking for a comprehensive work, one that explains everything about every major denomination, this is not it.  But, even if that is what you are looking for, you may want to start here anyway.  Chidester has provided a decent survey that can provide the unfamiliar reader with a good introduction.	2002-07-07
US	49693503	R1NSTJ8XR45WSV	0195078004	931648121	Beyond the Blue Horizon: Myths and Legends of the Sun, Moon, Stars, and Planets	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Extensive	Krupp has written a book that is comparable to Frazer's Golden Bough and Campbell's Hero With a Thousand Faces.  He traces the evolution of sky myths from cultures around the globe.  Krupp does an excellent job of capturing the meaning and beauty of these stories, and pieces them together in a well-crafted narrative.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R36H57VS1RM76O	015600139X	127145475	Goebbels	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Slow-going, packed with details	This is not a light and fluffy biography.  Reuth has put an amazing amount of scholastic work into reconstructing the life of Goebbels.  Be warned, however, that the book is slow-going, and often tedious.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R2U8AQ367CTWRA	0375501916	637630453	Faith of My Fathers	Books	5	2	2	N	N	As good as they come	All books by elected officials are designed to persuade you to vote for them.  McCain's book is no exception, but it is one of the most thoughtful and entertaining such works in a long time.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R3D35Y04VZGMGQ	0399140875	680906122	The Politics of Diplomacy	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Open memoir	Baker's memoir is open and honest.  He has put together an excellent narrative analysis of the foreign policy of the Bush administration.  In years to come the usefulness of this book will probably decline as more scholarly work appears, but Baker's story continues to be charming and detailed.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R2S64WRLASCBNY	067976285X	999389113	The Decision to Use the Atomic Bomb	Books	1	32	65	N	N	Unscholarly and incorrect	Alperovitz's conclusion is wrong, and his argument is unscholarly. Overlooking most of the evidence that contradicts his conclusions, the author fails to do anything other than offer long high-school type essay to a non-academic audience.  This is not the book for anyone wishing to learn more about why Truman decided to use the atom bomb.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R1SMYIUVH2SMJ7	0312058365	583308895	The Coming War With Japan	Books	4	7	11	N	N	History does not repeat itself	The authors' central point is that the events leading to the war in the Pacific (1937-1945) are (contemporary to the early 90s) repeating themselves, and that another war between the U.S. and Japan is imminent.  The proof of this is there, and incredibly accurate, but the authors' have failed to grasp the emotional and sociological reasons why that war will not come.  As an analysis of the causes of WWII in the Pacific, and why Japan's economy suddenly fell apart in the late 90s, this book is as good as it gets -- just don't buy their predictions.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	RDLZWNYBCD279	0671510991	945585365	Diplomacy (Touchstone Book)	Books	5	1	2	N	Y	Must read	Kissinger's work is not novel, but his analysis is.  This book is a must read for anyone interested in understanding foreign policy in the Western world.  Kissinger shows a remarkable lack of bias, which makes the book truly useful.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R18TRCVYFCWQPY	0609805363	574686299	Beyond Civilization: Humanity's Next Great Adventure	Books	2	0	3	N	N	What?	Quinn's book was great until the last portion.  He carefully crafted an opposing analysis of what civilization does for homo sapiens, presented his argument effectiviely, and then ended the book with a joke.  And the punchline wasn't even funny.  Although thought provoking, the book is a waste of time.  There is nothing good in here that was not in Ishmael.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R2GOWFUT45XY28	0375705767	585847413	Eastward to Tartary: Travels in the Balkans, the Middle East, and the Caucasus	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kaplan does it again	Once again, Kaplan uses his lucid writing to bring the Third World to life.  Although this book is not as great as Balkan Ghosts or The Ends of the Earth, it is still an excellent read.	2002-07-06
US	49693503	R27O2JCMH08O2J	0060925531	698128879	The Civilization of the Middle Ages: A Completely Revised and Expanded Edition of Medieval History	Books	5	4	5	N	Y	Outstanding	Cantor, a former student of the greatest American medievalist, Joseph Strayer (whose survey book is the best there is, but is almost impossible to find), has put together the best survey of the Middle Ages in print.  If you read this book and the top ten list Cantor has in the back, you will be ready to move on to more specialized topics.	2002-07-03
US	49693503	R3TGYF1FSKKGGL	0385418957	748344899	Seven Pillars of Wisdom: A Triumph (The Authorized Doubleday/Doran Edition)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Brilliant	As memoirs go, this book is brilliant.   Lawrence writes in a colorful prose style, and captures your attention with lucid and well organized description and analyses.  No writer has ever captured the heart of Arabia as Lawrence has in this book.	2002-07-03
US	49693503	R2Y991Z3RNQ4P3	0375700455	841119426	The First World War	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Not Keegan at his best	Keegan's WWI book is disappointing.  There is an abundance of narrative factual information, but not much analysis of tactics, strategies, or politics.  This book can serve well as an introduction to the details of the war, but is in no way even close to being definitive.	2002-07-03
US	49693503	R3CLOBAUR1ENEB	0140235426	913684934	Six Armies in Normandy: From D-Day to the Liberation of Paris; June 6 - Aug. 5, 1944; Revised	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Passionate military history at its best	This book is a must for anyone even slightly interested in WWII history, or anyone who has ever visited a WWII cemetery.  Keegan's narrative techniques will bring these events -- and, more importantly, the people involved -- to life.	2002-07-03
US	49693503	R191MDABR5JKHG	0582495156	391237128	Muslim Spain and Portugal: A Political History of al-Andalus	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Good introduction	Kennedy's book is a great introduction to the political history of Muslim Iberia.  Densely packed with information, the book could have used more maps and lexcionic information.  If you are not already familiar with the general outline of the situation in medieval Iberia (either from an encyclopedia or a survey of the Middle Ages), you may want to become so before tackling Kennedy's work.  This book should serve as a foundation for building a larger and more detailed understanding through future reading.	2002-07-02
US	49693503	R3POLXSGPPAIUO	0425176428	539869630	What If?: The World's Foremost Military Historians Imagine What Might Have Been	Books	5	0	1	N	N	It is what it is	It is impossible for this book, or any book similar to it, to please everyone.  Many have complained that so-and-so &quot;completely ignored ____.&quot;  Well, that is rather the point:  What if ____ had had a different opinion, pursued a different tactical or strategic objective, or not been as lucky.  All this book can possibly be is &quot;fluff&quot; -- a pointless exercise in fun.  If you want a quick, entertaining, and novel read, get the book.  If you are someone who delights in pointing out the faults of others, get the book.  If you are looking for serious analysis, both strategic and tactical, read Delbruck instead.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R2GH573B2EWCXN	0465014003	649842792	Conquests and Cultures: An International History	Books	5	9	21	N	N	Another classic	Conquests and Cultures is another great book from conservative Thomas Sowell.  Sowell does an excellent job of countering the movement to apply political-correctness to history.  If you enjoyed Sowell's other &quot;Cultures&quot; books, you must not miss this triumphant conclusion.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R2SU88XOHF5G36	0684826739	923748360	The Nightingale's Song	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Unique perspective	Timberg puts together a fascinating and unique study of how the Vietnam War shaped American politics during the Reagan administration.  Well-written, concise, and entertaining, this book is a great read for political junkies and readers interested in learning more about the Vietnam War.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	RWRZS46U8JMDX	0446393924	746240028	A History of the Arab Peoples	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Excellent overview	If you are looking to understand the basic outline of Arabic Muslim history and cultural development, this is the book for you. Hourani begins his history with the birth of Mohammed and brings up to the near-present.  Filled with excellent map, photographs, and illustrations, lucid and concise writing, and astute analyses this book serves as a great introduction to Arabic Muslim history.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R1Q2GH54U0B24	0394753666	606072682	The Fatal Shore: The Epic of Australia's Founding	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Definitive	Hughes has written the definitive work on the founding of the British colony in Australia.  He spends just enough time discussing the social woes of the United Kingdom that lead to the founding, and provides an excellent counter to attempts to glorify Australia's past.  There is no sensationalism in this book.  The nature and behavior of the prisoner-colonists is depcited without shame or apology.  Rich language, historical integrity, and some excellent maps make this book a great read.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R1975PYWIN9L3G	0394588010	306881683	A History of Warfare	Books	5	0	1	N	N	War is not just diplomacy by other means	Keegan's purpose in this book is to prove that Clausewitz's famous statement is applicable only to a narrow area in time and space.  Keegan's excellent historical scholarship shines here, but the real delight comes from his forray into anthropology.  Although he at times appears to be in too deep, Keegan makes his point successfully and interestingly.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R1LJM0NK7LWQG4	0140048979	773818200	The Face of Battle: A Study of Agincourt, Waterloo, and the Somme	Books	4	2	9	N	N	Military history from the grunt's perspective	Scholarship is lacking in this book, but that is not its objective.  Keegan takes a look at some major battles and tells them from the perspective of the soldier rather than the leaders.  This is perhaps the most &quot;human&quot; work of military history in print.	2002-07-01
US	49693503	R2KQ7BDDD50LRJ	0195130863	331877020	Wall Street: A History	Books	4	4	10	N	N	Not really about Wall Street	You should be aware that the title of this book (and its description) is misleading.  It appears to be a history of Wall Street -- that is, a street in Manhattan and the area around it, but it is not. Instead it isa history of capitalism and business legislation in America.  As such, it is a good book, and puts an interesting perspective on US history.  If you are intersted in the history of New York City, this is not the book for you, but if you are interested in American business and economic history, this is a neat little book.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R2Y77PD0AD1E86	0809093251	478948214	The Third Reich: A New History	Books	4	2	3	N	N	Unreadable to non-academics	This book is not intended for non-academics.  What Burleigh has done is a social and legal history of Nazism, casting it in a new light.  For what it is, it is great.  If, however, you are looking for a narrative history, read the Rise and Fall of the Third Reich.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	RXA909HYZQN58	0805071199	590802661	Race to Fashoda	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Wonderful	Lewis has put together a wonderfully written exposition of a major episode in European colonialism.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R3LAFSTN0R2Z0X	0195116348	60583506	Gotham: A History of New York City to 1898 (The History of NYC Series)	Books	5	0	3	N	N	Excellent social narrative	Burrows and Wallace have put together an excellent narrative of the social history of New York City.  They relay the events from the first European discovery of Manhattan to the unification of the Five Burroughs with clarity and concision.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R192IKSFNOOWNS	0786706813	937039882	Faust's Metropolis: A History of Berlin	Books	4	4	11	N	N	Too broadly focused	The part of Richie's book that was truly about Berlin was good.  The problem was that she spent too much time and space discussing the history of Prussia/Germany.  What I wanted -- and what I assume you are looking for -- is a history of the city of Berlin.  That is, when buildings were constructed, details of municipal government, urban planning, major social events pertaining to the city, etc.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R3HRNGF435QFZT	067973869X	903112807	Africa: A Biography of the Continent	Books	3	5	21	N	N	Wrong perspective	Reader's book is more about foreigners in Africa than about Africans.  Admittedly, it is difficult to put together a comprehensive history from the African perspective due to the lack of documents.  However, in the last three decades other scholars have been working on just that.  Those books are significantly better than Reader's.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R3TYWYILMZ5RVV	0670853380	442684524	The Balkans: Nationalism, War and the Great Powers, 1804-1999	Books	4	3	7	N	N	Disjointed, long, and overly detailed	A book like this should serve to give us a history of the Balkans.  What it does instead is give us a history of the different regions within the Balkans.  Imagine a book that claims to be about Europe, but breaks the book into separate sections on England, France, Germany, Italy, and Poland; apply that concept to the Balkans and you get Glenny's book.<br />The Balkans is also too long and detailed.  The book seems to be tailored to an audience that is more interested in journailsm than scholarship.<br />In spite of it all, the book is still worth reading.	2002-06-29
US	49693503	R16MTTP9SMR6I0	0815624409	477643426	The Other Europe: Eastern Europe to 1945	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Good introduction	This book can serve as a good introduction to anyone interested in studying Eastern Europe.  Read this book, and then go on to more detailed works.  In the back, Walters has an excellent bibliography.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	RBL10EP9WA4X8	0517887290	114266213	Fingerprints of the Gods	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Good fun	Hancock views himself as an amateur historian and archaeologist.  Although his conclusions are far-fetched, his techniques and his reasoning are not ungrounded.  If you have a lot of spare time and are looking for something thought provoking, get this book.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R2PE0YU358ZCK7	0195148312	508453670	The Isles: A History	Books	5	1	2	N	N	A warning	Reading over some of the other reviews of this book I realized that the prospective reader needs a warning:<br />This book is not an introduction to the British Isles.  If you are not fairly well read in the subject, do not read this book yet.<br />Davies, in his typically elegant language, does an excellent job of looking at the history of the British Isles from a truly (or, as close as one can get) third person perspective.  For the first time we get an overview of British history without having to see it through the lense of the English.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R6OHKFQ5RDD3D	0060974680	359859252	Europe: A History	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Magnificent	Davies' book is the greatest (and most useful) single-volume history of Europe.  The author's prose is truly magnificent.  However, ther reader should be warned that Davies assumes that the you already have a background in European history.<br />Another reviewer claimed that there were not enough maps.  I thought quite the opposite.  I often find myself referring back to Davies' maps -- both when I am reading other books, and when I am writing papers.<br />If you are in the business of history, you will probably find yourself using this book constantly, so get the hardcover edition.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R1ZOVVDXRGNAHX	0300090668	284162720	The Power of Kings: Monarchy and Religion in Europe, 1589 -1715	Books	3	2	19	N	N	Good effort, but cryptic	Somewhere in this book Monod has a good point.  The problem is that his writing is cryptic, and the point is hard to find.  Even if you manage to do it, you will probably find that it was not worth the effort.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R14K9AWQ3UNX2Y	0882758101	408468660	Feudalism (Anvil Series) (The Anvil series)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	A clear and concise work from a master of medieval studies	Strayer's book is a response to Marc Bloch's Feudal Society.  Strayer argues for a narrow definition of feudalism; a definition that can be practicle.  His writing style is wonderful and lucid.  Almost 200 pages of the book is primary source material.  This book is definitely worth tracking down if you are serious about medieval studies.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R1E79D0IL57ST0	0691007691	182350591	On the Medieval Origins of the Modern State	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Strayer is a genius	The true mark of a genius is in developing an idea that, when put forth seems obvious, yet is an original idea.  This book is Strayer's work of genius.  Being so short, Strayer's book should be mandatory reading in the public school system.  No one else has come close to explaining the unique origin of the state system in the modern West.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R24EKDH41Z9XQJ	0631208186	889001118	Religion and Society in Modern Europe	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good overview	This is a good overview, but is rather dull.  It has the potential to be a decent referrence book.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R33VIRWCA3R6YB	0679423087	620361333	1-2-3: The Decline and Fall of the Roman Empire: Volumes 1-3 of 6 (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	272	384	N	N	Beware	Before you decide to embark on this journey you should be aware of a few things.  First, this work is a narrative history, devoid of any real analysis.  You will not gain anything from the content of the book other than the chrnological linking of facts and entertaining stories.  Second, this work is really really L O N G.  If you are looking for a narrative history of the Roman Empire for the entertainment value, look elsewhere.  You will tire of this work if that is your reason for reading it.  Thirdly, Gibbon's conclusion about the \\"moral decadence\\" of the Romans being the cause of the collapse of the Western Empire is wrong.  Gibbon has viewed history through the foggy lense of his own value system.  If you are looking to discover why the Western part of the Empire collapsed you should take a look at Rostovtzeff's Rome, Delbruck's Barbarian Invasions, Haussig's intro to A History of Byzantine Civilization, and Strayer's intro to The Middle Ages.  Finally, if you are interested in reading some of the greatest English language prose of all time, read an abridgment.  The Penguin abridgement has all the wonderful narration, entertaining stories, and is only about a third of the length of the whole work.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R3QKUUAULQ3RFR	0195002245	87648012	Rome (Galaxy Books)	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Best overview of Rome	This wonderfully written book is the best overview of Roman civilization out there.  Anyone wishing to learn about the Roman kingdom, Republic, and Empire should start here.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	R2V8RKK1RD0H7O	0399147950	185638418	2: What If? II	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Uneven	This book contains some great essays, and does not limit itself only to military history as the first volume did. Unfortunately, it is entirely too focused on modern and western history. If modern history is your interest, you will thoroughly enjoy this book; if not, hope for a more balanced third volume, and -- in the mean time -- enjoy the fine writing and analyses in this one.	2002-06-28
US	49693503	RK4CQ6HOZY0VD	0300092962	865731404	At the End of an Age	Books	3	8	15	N	N	Good stuff, but disjointed	This book is broken into five parts that are only marginally related to each other.  Each of those parts are great, but the lack of a coherent central theme makes the book difficult to read.	2002-06-27
US	49693503	R2V3Y0LQL1RR6G	0803292007	789661831	2: The Barbarian Invasions: History of the Art of War, Volume II	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Narrow, Ethnically Biased ... Great	Splitting the classical era into two separate volumes was an ingenious move.  Delbruck allowed himself enough room to explore the downfall of the Roman Empire (and clear up some misconceptions about it) and the warfare of the Germanic tribes that had become the Roman armies.  The bad side to this work is that it focuses exclusively on Europe, leaving aside any investigation of what was going on in the Eastern portion of the Empire -- events that led to the recruitment of the Germans.  This should not dissuade you too much from reading this book.  It is important to keep in mind that Delbruck was doing all of this on his own, without assistance (and often in the face of opposition) or previous scholars to rely upon.  If Dlebruck's &quot;Germanness&quot; is disappointing, his scholarship is still amazing.	2002-06-26
US	49693503	R1WQ03A3ED2F9S	0882957090	748266745	How to Study History	Books	4	6	8	N	N	Outdated, yet sound advice	Many of the research methods that Cantor and Schneider discuss here have become outdated.  Yet, their advice on writing and thinking about history remains highly applicable to contemporary students studying to become historians.	2002-06-26
US	49693503	R28RPI407C4FD4	0803265859	974366009	3: Medieval Warfare: History of the Art of War, Volume III	Books	4	6	11	N	N	Disappointing	It is in this volume that Delbruck's sense of racial superiority shows the most.  Although the longest volume in the work it deals almost exclusively with warfare among medieval Germans.  He virtually ignores the Crusades, the Reconquista, the Hundred Years War, and Manzikert.  His argument against including the Crusades is that they did not do anything to change warfare in Europe, but later mentions that the English experiences in Syria led to the development of the long-bow.  This definitely should have been explored more.  <br />The best move Delbruck could have made to improve this volume would have been to split it into two books.  Had he done that he could have dealt with the Hundred Years War in the same way that he dealt with the Punic Wars, gone into more detail about the Crusades, explored the Reconquista and the Norman migrations, and given the Byzantine Empire the focus it deserves.<br />Delbruck's analysis of the Swiss (whom he constantly refers to as &quot;German&quot;) contribution to modern warfare is amazing, however, and makes the work worth reading.	2002-06-26
US	49693503	R1FQ861DSTLDX9	080329199X	789661831	1: Warfare in Antiquity: History of the Art of War, Volume I	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Brilliant	Delbruck's four volume History of the Art of War is both the first modern approach to military history and one of the best.  His work is not a simple list and description of battles, but the exploration -- over all four volumes -- of a particular theme.<br />The first volume, Warfare in Antiquity, is the greatest of the four.  It is the only one that can be read by itself, and remains the most brilliant work on classical warfare ever written.	2002-06-26
US	49693503	R3FXVO6OX9800S	0803265867	554531190	4: The Dawn of Modern Warfare: History of the Art of War, Volume IV	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Weak Conclusion	Delbruck's conclusion, though weak, is excellent.  No one has ever done a better analysis of Renaissance warfare.  On the other hand, though, his treatment of the Thirty Years War was appalling.  Had he gone back to the basics and dealt with this war in the same manner he did the Punic Wars in Volume One, this could have been the best volume.  Additionally, he failed to do any real analysis of the Napoleonic wars.  No contemporary history of early modern warfare would completely ignore the Peninsular Wars.<br />Delbruck's narrow focus is offset, though, by his snubbing of both Napoleon and Wellington.<br />His conclusion is weak, but it should be kept in mind that, due to his interruption by WWI, he was not able to take it as far as he wanted.  It is easy to sense that the German failure in WWI changed some of his views on nineteenth-century warfare, and he could not write about it.	2002-06-26
US	49693503	RFRB3UZEYIZWI	0061050261	135432744	Brute Orbits	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Too short	The idea of putting penal colonies in space is really interesting.  Zebrowski tries to tell the story of the individuals in the colonies and at the same time examine the long term social effects of hurling thousands of people into a closed environment in only 200 pages.  This brevity resulted in the isolation of both ideas.  What we get is the beginning and the end of what could have been a good book had the middle not been left out.	2002-01-11
US	49693503	R16I6MCG9LLNJ3	031287278X	80184773	Strange Travelers: New Selected Stories	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Great style	The stories in Strange Travelers are a wonderful display of Wolfe's broad and varied style.  Each story is told in an entirely different voice, making it impossible to get tired of reading them.  There was more variety in this collection than there often is in multi-author collections.	2002-01-08
US	49693503	R3FACNNXIP85RD	044100864X	10957728	Masterpieces: The Best Science Fiction of the Century	Books	3	71	88	N	N	Masterpieces???????????	Don't be fooled by the title.  There are very few &quot;masterpieces&quot; in this book.  Even the stories by &quot;masterpiece&quot; authors are not their best (Asimov, Heinlein, Silverberg, Ellison, and Aldiss, for example).  Where are Bester, Wolfe, Zelazny, and and Robert Reed? -- writers whose genius was at its best in shorter venues.  Almost half of this book (which is &quot;The Best Science Fiction of the Century&quot;) is from the 80s and 90s, much by unheard of authors.  On top of that Card's introductions are very sloppy.  In one he uses the phrase &quot;science fiction&quot; three times in one sentence.  Quite frankly, I'm not sure that Card actually edited the book.  It looks like Ace decided to put together an anthology to boost residual sales, putting the focus on more contemporary work and getting a popular author to put his name on the cover.	2002-01-04
US	49693503	R2D3GZKY1LNWTA	0441008356	824019804	Revelation Space	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Misguided focus	Reynold's first novel is a good start.  The language is well crafted, the ideas are unique, and the characters are intriguing.  Revelation Space, despite it's shortcomings, deserves to be on the Hugo ballot this year.	2001-11-30
US	49693503	R1DS2GRV2XTKY4	0312263260	995250243	The Furthest Horizon: SF Adventures to the Far Future	Books	2	0	11	N	N	Not Dozois' Fault	With the exception of Gene Wolfe's The Map, the best these stories can do is mediocre.  Dozois, I'm certain, did an excellent job picking out these stories, and that the fault lies with the authors themselves.	2001-11-20
US	49693503	R1385BELD1ZPZ0	0441008593	332922332	First Landing	Books	3	1	2	N	N	Three for effort and scientific accuracy	There is nothing in First Landing that you could not have gotten from watching the film Mission to Mars (which Zubrin helped create).  The plot is boring and the characters are one dimensional.  Zubrin cops out by using lots of verbalized thoughts, and it is distracting.  At the end Zubrin gives us a revised version of the Turner Thesis (which he does excellently in Entering Space), but it comes out poorly.<br />This is definitely NOT worth reading.  But if he keeps trying, he'll get fiction right eventually.  Give Zubrin two more books, and they'll start to get good!	2001-11-19
US	49693503	R387FP2C8YVDUK	081221207X	71271424	The Swahili: Reconstructing the History and Language of an African Society, 800-1500 (The Ethnohistory Series)	Books	4	16	19	N	N	Concise and Informative	The Swahili is a concise and informative book.  It is dry and somewhat boring, but the authors do not drag it on longer than it needs to be.  If you are looking for a &quot;quick read&quot; on the Swahili, this is it.	2001-10-15
US	49693503	R2LCC6JIT5ZUA3	0312088477	174624683	Modern Classics of Science Fiction	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Awesome	It is very rare for me to enjoy more than half of any anthology, but I loved 75% of this one.  The stories in here, although by &quot;classic&quot; authors, are rare and fun.  This volume knocks the socks off of any &quot;Year's Best ...&quot;  I can't praise it enough.<br />Here are the three best stories:<br />The Fifth Head of Cerberus -- Gene Wolfe<BR>This Moment of the Storm -- Roger Zelazny<BR>The Edge of the World -- Michael Swanwick	2001-10-11
US	49693503	R27XFATFJKYQJV	0312275447	554649792	The Year's Best Fantasy and Horror : Fourteenth Annual Collection	Books	3	2	7	N	N	Most disappointing volume in years	No one will ever like every story in a multi-author collection, but I found that I disliked a majority of this year's Fantasy and Horror collection. Even the list of Honorable Mentions did not seem impressive.  Still, the good stories were good, and in themselves are worth reading.  However, I suggest borrowing it from your library rather than buying it.	2001-10-01
US	49693503	R2G9EI1D1N42V8	0312274785	856703441	The Year's Best Science Fiction, Eighteenth Annual Collection	Books	4	4	9	N	N	Here is a list of the stories you should read from this book	First of all let me say that since this is a collection it is inevitable that some of it is going to be bad and some of it is going to be good, and there is bound to be a lot of mediocre.  On the whole, however, I was a little disapointed at the overall quanilty in this volume.  I have found that most of the stories I would have liked to read (Greg Bear, Orson Scott Card, Michael Flynn, Dan Simmons)ended up in the &quot;Honorable Mentions,&quot; while some of the obvious losers were printed.<br />On with the list:<br />Here are the good stories:<br />The Suspect Genome -- Peter Hamilton<BR>Radiant Green Star -- Lucius Shepard<BR>Great Wall of Mars -- Alastair Reynolds<BR>Snowball in Hell -- Brian Stableford<BR>Patient Zero -- Tananarive Due<BR>The Thing About Benny -- M. Shayne Bell<BR>Tendeleo's Story -- Ian McDonald<br />Here are the really bad stories:<br />The Birthday of the World -- LeGuin<BR>Antibodies -- Charles Stross<BR>A Colder War -- Charles Stross<BR>The Juniper Tree -- John Kessel	2001-09-09
US	49693503	REET8WJX1EFV0	0441003311	525403590	The True Game	Books	2	2	15	N	N	Original idea, poor execution	I have read a lot of Tepper's work, and have enjoyed most of it.  This book, however, could not hold my interest.  The idea is fascinating; I expected the book to be an amazing read.  Unfortunately, I was let down.  The True Game is written in first person, which is tough to do.  In order to do it well the writer must develop a good &quot;voice.&quot;  Tepper did not do this.  I would not say that reading this is a waste of time, only that I kept losing interest.  If you find that you can stomacch the poor narration it would be a good idea to finish it.	2001-08-04
US	49693503	R20CIKRAW3Z5XL	0553565079	834333861	Forward the Foundation	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Great take on aging	Forward the Foundation is (I believe) the last novel that Asimov wrote.  Consequently, it is probably the second most poignant and revealing literary take on growing old (the first, by the way, has to be Vonnegut's Timequake).  You should read this entire book just in order to enjoy the last few pages.	2001-08-02
US	49693503	R1EN6D62FG6NRD	0452010713	652873235	Strategy: Second Revised Edition (Meridian)	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Not enough maps	This is an excellent work that everyone should read.  However, if you are planning on reading this book I would suggest that you find an historical atlas that illustrates these battles, because there are not enough maps in this volume.	2001-07-08
US	49693503	R2RHDQD5BQ4GCC	0345337662	494921316	Interview with the Vampire	Books	1	6	15	N	N	How did this book ever become popular?	Does anyone actually speak this way? I've never read a book with weaker characters or more boring (and unrealistic) dialogue. Stay away from this complete waste of time.	2001-05-30
