US	49709381	R3M93RXRS325T8	0786010924	728601321	All The Way Home	Books	5	5	5	N	N	BREATH TAKING READ	Lake Charlotte, New York, is a sleepy village in the foot hills of the Adirondack Mountains. It's a place where   everyone knows each other, and they don't have to lock their doors -- that is, until strange disappearances start to happen.   Then the towns' people don't know who to trust. <br />  Kirstin Stafford, a 13-year-old, is the first to vanish without a trace, Allison Myers, a 15-year-old, disappears three weeks   later, and Carleen Connolly, a 14-year-old, vanishes a few weeks after her. Now it's 10 years later and Rory Connolly   (the sister of Carleen Connolly who disappeared 10 years ago) has returned to Lake Charolotte from Berkley California   where she attended college. <br />  On the 10th anniversary of the first girl's disappearance, Emily Anghardt vanishes.  Why is it starting all over again? Rory   wants to find out so she can have some answers about her sister's disappearance. What Rory doesn't know is she is in   danger as well as other young girls. <br />  The characters are well defined and realistic in the sense that they are not perfect so that the reader can understand why   they made the mistakes they did.  I thought that I had it all figured out early in the book, but was I dead wrong. ALL THE   WAY HOME is a well-told story with a lot of spooky revelations, fantastic amazement, and plenty of thrills and chills to   keep you hanging on to every word right up to the breath-taking and astonishing conclusion.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	R3T6UXCPAGSJGX	0312975767	876875971	Don't Close Your Eyes	Books	4	10	12	N	N	SPINE-TINGLING	Veterinarian Natalie St. John returns to her childhood home of Port Ariel, Ohio, a town nestled on the shores   of Lake Erie, in hopes of finding solace for her broken heart. She is instead thrown into a situation that threatens her life   and the lives of her loved ones. <br />  Natalie and her friend Lily find the body of Tamara (Lily's twin sister). Was it an act of random violence or something   more personal? The answer soon becomes clear as the corpses keep piling up, and Natalie feels as if she is being watched.<br />  Police Chief Nick Meredith swears he will keep Natalie safe, and pretty soon it becomes clear that the urgency he feels is   because he is falling for Natalie. <br />  DON'T CLOSE YOUR EYES is one of those books that keeps your heart racing and your body tensed up until the very   spine tingling, awesome ending.  There are many characters in the book that are well defined and believable. Believe me,   you'll never guess who the slasher is until the very last minute, and that's what makes DON'T CLOSE YOUR EYES such   a nail biting mystery. This was my first Carlene Thompson mystery, and it definitely won't be my last.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	R38BYX3Y361ARL	0786011963	653766196	The Last To Know	Books	5	52	56	N	N	AN EXCEPTIONAL MYSTERY	If you truly love a really good suspense book that makes the hair on the back of your neck stand straight up   then THE LAST TO KNOW is the book you must read. <br />  Townsend Heights is a perfect, small town in New York. A peaceful suburban existence that Tasha Banks dreamed of   living and raising her children in when she left her fast-paced career to become a full-time, stay at home mom. Now   Tasha's perfect dream is turning into a terrifying nightmare she cannot escape. A serial killer is on the loose and looking for   a specific kind of prey -- young stay at home moms just like Tasha. Tasha's friends are being killed in the most horrendous   ways -- sometimes right in front of their children. <br />  I was hooked from the very first page. THE LAST TO KNOW is a wild ride and an exceptional novel that will keep you   guessing with twists and turns that make everyone a suspect right up to shocking finish. <br />  I have read FADE TO BLACK, ALL THE WAY HOME, and THE LAST TO KNOW by Wendy Corsi Staub, and I   must tell you that I think that this author is an exceptional writer. Sho writes of murders that keep you on the edge of your   seat without resorting to explicit descriptions of the killer's crimes, which is very refreshing for a change.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	RJ06RB5ELMW3C	0786006528	799017388	Fade To Black	Books	5	2	2	N	N	HEART RACING EXCITEMENT	Mallory Eden, a famous actress, disappears to a sleepy village in Windmere Cove, Rhode Island, where she becomes   Elizabeth Baxter, a loner who keeps to herself for fear that the stalker that made her run away 5-years ago would find her.   One day Elizabeth finds a pink envelope in her mailbox that turns her world upside down; the note inside says \\"I KNOW   WHO YOU ARE \\".  Elizabeth finds solace in the arms of Harper Smith, the only person she has allowed to get close to   her, but can Harper be trusted? <br />  FADE TO BLACK is a great mystery that is well written, filled with suspense, wondering, and heart racing excitement that   keeps you guessing until the climatic final act. The characters are very thought out and a wee bit strange, except Elizabeth,   who I found to be an interesting and sympathetic character whose only desire is to have her life bank and feel safe in it.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	RYH2RZD8YLCT9	0786011963	653766196	The Last To Know	Books	5	1	1	N	N	AN EXCEPTIONAL MYSTERY	If you truly love a really good suspense book that makes the hair on the back of your neck stand straight up   then THE LAST TO KNOW is the book you must read. <br />  Townsend Heights is a perfect, small town in New York. A peaceful suburban existence that Tasha Banks dreamed of   living and raising her children in when she left her fast-paced career to become a full-time, stay at home mom. Now   Tasha's perfect dream is turning into a terrifying nightmare she cannot escape. A serial killer is on the loose and looking for   a specific kind of prey -- young stay at home moms just like Tasha. Tasha's friends are being killed in the most horrendous   ways -- sometimes right in front of their children. <br />  I was hooked from the very first page. THE LAST TO KNOW is a wild ride and an exceptional novel that will keep you   guessing with twists and turns that make everyone a suspect right up to shocking finish. <br />  I have read FADE TO BLACK, ALL THE WAY HOME, and THE LAST TO KNOW by Wendy Corsi Staub, and I   must tell you that I think that this author is an exceptional writer. Sho writes of murders that keep you on the edge of your   seat without resorting to explicit descriptions of the killer's crimes, which is very refreshing for a change.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	R1E9HZIV3A475H	0595095267	620990787	Look Away from Evil	Books	4	4	6	N	N	SPELLBOUND	Laura Kate O'Connell is a foreign correspondent working in Scotland when she gets word from cousin John   that his father has been killed. How could this happen to her favorite uncle Wallace?  Laura Kate returns to Roston, South   Carolina, to help her family deal with this latest tragedy. <br />  It all started thirty-three years ago when one-month-old Roscoe Langey died in his crib. Then there were the unexpected   deaths of Laura Kate's father and brother in a car accident. After that, her cousin Will was swept away by floodwaters,   and cousin Helen disappeared while on vacation with her two girls. <br />   Laura Kate is convinced that something sinister is going on and she is determined to find out. With the help of Denver,   whom she is falling in love with, she takes up the job of getting to the bottom of these tragedies. <br />   LOOK AWAY FROM EVIL is a well-written book about the ultimate in dysfunctional families at their worst. I suspected   every character because they all had skeletons in their closets, but I never figured out the real story.  I found the author's   words to be hypnotic and was held spellbound all the way up to the scandalous end.	2001-06-09
US	49709381	R2ZM2WZ95S6PVJ	0967822114	110683205	Never Burn a Witch: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	5	32	33	N	N	NOT FOR THE FAINT OF HEART	NEVER BURN A WITCH is the second Rowan Gant Investigation, following HARM NONE. <br />  Someone is running around St Louis with an apostolic way of thinking. They truly believe God is directing their path and   that it is their duty to rid the earth of witches. <br />  Brianna Louise Walker took a nosedive off of the sixth story balcony of the Riverfront Hilton handcuffed. The monogram   of Christ was carved into her inner thighs by the murderer to purify her because of her profession. The second murder is   even more gruesome.  <br />  Rowan Gant is back to help his best friend, police officer Ben Storm, because a serial killer is on the loose, and it's up to   them to solve these murders before the next one occurs. <br />  I found NEVER BURN A WITCH to have a very strong plot. It moves along at a fast pace and delivers lots of suspense.   M.R. Sellers writes with such graphic descriptions that you feel you are there witnessing it with your own eyes. This is not a   read for the faint of heart.	2001-05-15
US	49709381	R1GSZOI5ETY92J	0966636651	35548735	Twice Tempted	Books	5	1	1	N	N	MANCHEE IS THE BEST	It's 1966 and 19-year-old Fred Fuller is living a full life. He's a student at UCLA during the day, and at night, he works as a  messenger for Bank USA. As a bank messenger, Fred delivers and picks up data processing from a half dozen banks  between Ventura and Fillmore, California. Fred considers him self a virtuous and exemplary person, but will he feel the same  when he finds himself twice tempted?  <br /> William Manchee has successfully penned another outstanding novel, keeping me spell bound throughout. I hesitate to say too  much, because it's one of those books which proves true that \\"all is not as it seems,\\" and I don't want to give too much away.  I will say this, the plot was free flowing with plenty of twists and turns, and I was clueless all the way up to end and what an  ending it was!  <br /> TWICE TEMPTED will have readers questioning their own morals and values, and wondering how they would react if faced  with the same situation.	2001-05-09
US	49709381	R3BZO0V4VXGMB0	0595091865	515457697	The Twisted Triangle	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A PHENOMENAL READ	TWISTED TRIANGLE is Ms. Potthoff's debut outing and what a phenomenal job she has done.  I will tell   you right off the bat that you will not be able to put this book down, or soon forget it. <br />  Mattie Cameron and her husband Matt had a Sunday night ritual of going to a coffee shop for dinner. Even when they   were separated because of Matt's affair, they would sometimes meet there, but this Sunday night was life altering. As Matt   walked out the door, he was gunned down; within a moment, Mattie's life was turned upside down. Detective Brandeis of   homicide informs Mattie that her husband was still having an affair, making Mattie a prime suspect with a perfect motive.   Mattie must not only deal with her own feelings of grief; she must help her grown children get through this crisis even   though she is questioning her own survival and sanity. <br />  Potthoff's character of Mattie is written with such detail you can feel her raw emotions as her world is being turned upside   down. I used more than one Kleenex to get through this one.  The supporting characters are all very intriguing with   underlying issues of their own. I was kept on the edge of my seat throughout this book until the surprising ending.  I look   forward to seeing more from this author, and hopefully soon.	2001-05-09
US	49709381	R2XVGGHJ54UR07	0966636600	334431005	1: Undaunted: A Stan Turner Mystery (Stan Turner Mysteries)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A SENSUAL THRILLER	UNDAUNTED is the first Stan Turner Mystery followed by the second, BRASH ENDEAVOR and the third, SECOND   CHAIR. <br />  Stan decides at a very early age that he wants to be a lawyer, but while he is at the Ventura county fair Stan and his friend   Steve wanted to have their future read by a Univac Computer which analyzes a persons handwriting and tells their the   future.  Stan's card came back saying. <br />   `STRUGGLING IN A HOSTILE WORLD,      PURSUING YOUR DESTINY,      YOU WILL STAND RESOLUTE AGAINST ADVERSITY,        UNDAUNTED' <br />  Stan did not understand the meaning then, but as he became an adult, he would understand all to well. <br />  While Stan was at UCLA he met Rebekah whom he loves very much, they are married Oct 18, 1968. On the way to   getting a law degree, things get rough for Stan. The Army drafts him in 1970; to avoid the Army he signs with the Marines.    While in boot camp, he unwittingly befriends a serial killer and soon finds himself charged with the murder of his drill   sergeant. Stan desperately searches for the real killer. Helping him is nurse Rita Andrews, who wants Stan for herself, and   Virginia Stone, a journalist looking for a story. <br />  Undaunted is a sensual chiller, involving white supremacists, a serial killer, and the Marines all rolled up into a startling   package that will keep you clinging to every word. <br />  Undaunted proves it to me; William Manchee is a master at story telling.  He has a way of spinning a tale that will leave you   breathless every time.	2001-05-09
US	49709381	R107K2LH6MKJVY	0595128971	834013968	Justice Denied (Judge Wilhelmina Carson series)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	Worth reading	JUSTICE DENIED is the second installment of the Judge Wilhemina Carson series. The first was    SILICONE SOLUTION, and Ms. Vogt is now writing a third installment called GASPARILLA GOLD. <br />   Judge Willa Carson is back again, but this time it's personal. Her husband George is accused of killing General Albert    Andrews, Tampa's highest-ranking Army officer and nominee to the U.S. Supreme Court.  The police found George's    gun was the murder weapon so they refused to look at any other suspects, even though the suspect list is long. Even the    General's own family had reasons to want him dead. Willa must solve this crime before her dear husband George is    sentenced to death. <br />   Judge Willa Carson is an exciting multi-faceted character.  The reader is taken on a wild ride with many twists and turns    that keep the reader guessing at whodunit up until the very ending. M. Diane Vogt has been a lawyer for over twenty    years and writes with an insider's knowledge of the Florida court system and the political scene.	2001-05-09
US	49709381	R1O4H41V0YL8F1	1583485619	966918180	Wednesday's Child	Books	4	3	3	N	N	SPELLBINDING	Dr. Leigh Novak decides to take her son Jeremy away from Los Angeles and to a small town in Northern California called   Hartwood, population 3000. The day they arrived should have been happy, but instead went from bad to worse. Leigh   finds old Doc Ellsford slumped over in his chair, half dead from a stroke. Once Leigh sees Doc off in the town's only   ambulance, Gabe Barker comes rushing in with his 3 year old son Brian who has a very high fever and is in a coma. Brian   stops breathing shortly after they arrive. Leigh works on Brian for thirty minutes without any results, Little Brian is dead,   and he should not be gone he only had the chicken pox. Along the way, Leigh finds friendship in Nora, a well respected   childcare giver. <br />  WEDNESDAY'S CHILD gives a disturbing description of child abuse, but this is not just a book about child abuse, it's a   story about small town life and its secrets. The Shlians have written a fast paced, taut and very compelling story, I found   the book spellbinding and hard to put down. If you like Mary Higgins Clark you will love WEDNESDAY'S CHILD.	2001-04-05
US	49709381	RJ6ERO2PVNF54	158348759X	661527378	Shou	Books	4	3	3	N	N	A VERY COMPLEX READ	Dr. Lili Quan is a twenty-seven year old medical resident who is just finishing up her training in Los Angeles.  Lili  is very strong willed woman who has a conflict going on inside her as to whether she is American or Chinese. When her  mother Su-Wei is dying she asks Lili to go to china and get to know her Chinese heritage.  Lili does go to China as her  mother ask and immediately gets wrapped up in an international conspiracy to find the secret of longevity.  <br /> SHOU is a very complex story with intrigue, romance, covetousness, treachery, suspense and even a little sex thrown into the  mixture. It ranges over fifty years and two continents. You will learn about Chinese culture from 1949 when Mao and the  communists took over China to 1989 and the political demonstrations in Tiananmen Square and the harrowing massacre that  ensued. <br /> The Shlian's have managed to have several stories going on at once and did it remarkably well.  The details of the scenery are  breathtaking. Character development was spectacular, with the love story between Lili and Chi-Wen was very touching and  romantic. Best of all was the heart stopping surprise ending. Included in the book a glossary, map and a very helpful  pronunciation chart.	2001-04-05
US	49709381	RF5LP81G6NM1A	0595140513	862498188	The Plantation	Books	5	23	32	N	N	LEFT ME BREATHLESS	I have to start off by saying that I loved THE PLANTATION. <br />  32-year-old Robert Edwards, a ski instructor from Icy River, Colorado, is hunted down like an animal and taken hostage.   At Longview Regional Hospital in Longview, Colorado, 33-year-old Tonya Edwards, who is eight months pregnant, walks   into an elevator. When the doors shut, a man walks up and sticks a needle in Tonya's neck, puts her in a wheel chair, and   rolls her to a waiting van. In Mars, Pennsylvania, Ariane Walker is dragged from her apartment and whisked away. Many   disappearances are taking place in different cities. To Jonathon Payne and his best friend David Jones this is personal   because Araine Walker is Jon's girlfriend, and they will do any thing to get her back. <br />  The characters are multi-faceted with plenty of soul to them. Jon and David are my personal favorites; the author really lets   you feel the close relationship and how special and rare that is these days. <br />  THE PLANTATION takes you to Colorado, Pennsylvania, New Orleans, and Nigeria on a wonderful rough and tumble   ride with many twists and turns. I was breathless wanting to read every last word slowly so I wouldn't miss a single thing.   When I reached the ending, it was phenomenal, everything was all tied up into a nice tight bow. <br />  This is one of those books that I couldn't stop thinking about or how awesome that it was. Thank goodness that Mr.   Kuzneski is working on another Jonathon Payne novel. Three cheers.	2001-04-05
US	49709381	RV71N1ODL4MVY	0966602145	652749482	Full Moon-Bloody Moon	Books	5	4	4	N	N	YOU WILL LOVE THIS ONE	FULL MOON BLOODY MOON is the second Chase Dagger mystery; the first was THE GOOD DIE TWICE.  <br />  Chase Dagger is back, but this time he will need more than luck to catch a killer that has been around for more than 200   years.... Knowing that Oct. 13th a Friday was   not even here yet, the worse was yet to happen.  <br />  FULL MOON BLOODY MOON has the same unconventional and fetching characters as THE GOOD DIE TWICE.   Einstein the bright red macaw that has a big mouth, Chase's right hand woman, Sara, Simon the mailman who knows   everybody's business. Padre and Skizzy are also back as well as some new characters. FULL MOON BLOODY   MOON is a ferocious horror-filled ride that will stick with you well after you have finished reading the book. Mixed with   sex, violence and plenty of fast paced action. I hung onto every word. <br />   Lee Driver (aka S.D. Tooley ) you have done it again, keep up the good work.	2001-03-03
US	49709381	R1Q5F1CLQJ79HI	0595137407	813657507	Company Confidential	Books	5	2	2	N	N	TOP-NOTCH THRILLER	COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL is Tom McCrory's debut novel and the first in a planned series of corporate thrillers. <br />  Glenn Stevens is V.P. of Campbell Industries although he acts like a dictator.  Stevens treats the employees by intimidation   and terrorizing them.  If you happen to be a woman, he treats you as his personal sex toy to use whenever and wherever   he wants. To refuse him could mean your life. <br />  Scott Murphy moves from Memphis to Los Angeles to work for Campbell Industries and n wonders what he has gotten   himself into. People are dying at Campbell and someone is trying to frame Scott. Can he clear his name before it is to late? <br />  COMPANY CONFIDENTIAL starts out with a horrifying sexual assault and barbaric murder that is described in   compelling detail. Glenn Stevens is as depraved as the devil himself.   He lacks any moral values and defiantly doesn't have   a conscience of any kind which in my book makes him the worst kind of predator. <br />  McCrory writes a breakneck and frenzied ride through the world of big business. <br />  I was hooked hard right with so many ups and downs I felt dizzy with excitement all the way from the beginning to the   breathless ending.  Move over Grisham, Tom McCrory is here to take over where you left off.	2001-03-03
US	49709381	R2AUM011TVDFM	1573227358	452900713	The Dark Side of the Light Chasers: Reclaiming Your Power, Creativity, Brilliance, and Dreams	Books	5	77	82	N	N	TO HELP YOU BECOME THE BEST THAT YOU CAN BE	THE DARK SIDE OF THE LIGHT CHASERS is written with such brutal honesty that if you are not ready to change your  life than don't bother with the book. Why?  Because it would probably put you off, and that would be a shame because this is  an extraordinary book that will surely alter your life as it did mine. Ms. Ford teaches us to deal with our inner demons or  shadows as they are called in the book Shadow work as Ms. Ford refers to is the on going process of depolarizing, and  balancing to heal the split between the conscious sense of self and the all else we are or could be. We learn that `Dark' doesn't  mean only negative, it refers to something out of the light of our conscious awareness.  <br /> We know our shadow by many names, dark side, alter ego, the dark twin, the repressed self. I always told myself that I was  crazy, I'm not worthy of the nice things that I have, and worst of all I felt unloved. Believe me when I say the hardest thing in  the world to do is to look deep inside yourself honestly and for me it all came out in anger, learning to own the anger and then  dealing with it so I could change that pattern in myself. When we do that our whole way of thinking changes for the better.  <br /> THE DARK SIDE OF THE LIGHT CHASERS is a wonderful self-help book and will show you how to be a whole person if  you really want it.	2001-03-03
US	49709381	RQ5W48RNBE5X6	1929976011	481651682	Inner Passages (Michael Tanner Mystery)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	NOT TO BE MISSED	Inner Passages is set on the waterway between Puget Sound and the Northern end of Vancouver Island along   the western coast of British Columbia. Michael Tanner a prosperous Seattle public relations executive and a lover of   sailing, plans a sailing trip to Texada Island with his wife Beth and their friend Alice.  <br />  Shortly after the trip begins, a heavy fog rolls in making it hard to see. Alice's suggestion to go back is quickly over-ruled.   Michael cuts the engine to listen for other boats. Sometime later the fog breaks revealing a large white yacht fifty feet in   front of them. When Beth waves at the three people on the deck, the engines on the yacht came alive and head away from   them. Suddenly the yacht turns heading straight for the Queen Anne. Michael is able to get out of the way on the first pass   but when the yacht comes around again, a man shoots at them, hitting the mast. The sailboat, no match for the large yacht,   dies and sinks to the bottom of the sea. The dinghy, carrying the battered and unconscious Tanner, grounds itself on the   southern tip of Lasqueti Island.  After months of depression, Tanner decides to search for the murderers of Beth and   Alice.  <br />  Carl Brookins weaves a suspenseful tale of the loss of love, murder, feelings of guilt and redemption. His descriptions of   the surroundings are so vivid you feel as if you are there, I even thought that I smelled salt water. Wonderfully written with   a powerful ending.	2001-03-03
US	49709381	R2190FJLJRRS1B	0805064389	995680699	Iced (John MacRae Books)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	WORTH READING	ICED takes place in Missoula Montana, where Meg Gardner an ex- con turned repo woman, is trying to get her life   together. Meg has to repo a jeep belonging to Clay Bennett, the same Clay Bennett that was just found dead. Meg figures   that it will be easy to get the jeep back, but once she has it back the trouble starts. Someone else wants     the jeep, next thing you know Meg is drawn into a murder mystery involving sex and violence. As Meg tries to solve the   mystery she must deal with her own ghosts from her past as well as deal with Russian thugs and Tina Red Dear, a Native   American woman who could very well be her half sister.      I thought that ICED was well written but left me with to many unanswered questions about Megs past. The mystery   involving Clay Bennett was top-notch with plenty of suspense. Meg is a protagonist that really wants to be left alone to live   her life low- key with coffee, cigarettes, beer, and burgers in that order.	2001-02-13
US	49709381	R29HN5ZP1POV0X	0966987713	780745457	Unfold the Evil (Natalie Joday Mysteries)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A GREAT THRILLER	UNFOLD THE EVIL is the second in a projected four title series; the first was THE HATCH AND BROOD OF TIME.   This second outing of Natalie Joday finds her still working for the Star, but this time she is at odds over her job. She feels   as if she has had enough of cops and courtrooms with all the trouble she has gone through with her brother Daniel, who   seems to be more settled now.  <br />  Louise Hunt, an advice columnist for the Star, is receiving terrifying letters from someone. At first, Natalie does not take   them seriously because every one knows that Louise writes herself letters to answer. Natalie suggests that Louise write a   response to the writer of the letter and that would put a stop to the letters. The letters continue and become bolder. They   are written in riddles and containing references to murders committed and a thirst for vengeance.     Natalie turns to Rebecca Elias, a psychologist, who also happens to be Daniel's girlfriend. Natalie and Rebecca decide if   they can figure out the riddles, they can figure out who the writer is. Can they figure out the mystery before there are more   murders?  <br />  UNFOLD THE EVIL is well written with ups and downs that will keep the reader on the edge of their seat. Ms. Lars has   created characters that have depth to them and are true to life. Natalie is still my favorite. She is very bright, very gutsy,   and a protector to those she loves. I can hardly wait for the 3rd installment with Natalie Joday to come out.	2001-02-07
US	49709381	R2SNG48131Q209	0451409450	553807381	Darkness Bound	Books	5	7	10	N	N	HOOKED HARD	From the moment that I started reading DARKNESS BOUND I was hooked so hard my teeth rattled, even though it was   a little racy at times it fit the story line perfectly.  <br />  The story takes place in Seattle Washington. Dillon Masters is a stockbroker who seems to have everything, good looks,   money, and a lot of friends, but he has one problem his wife Karen is not happy. She wants Dillon to move out so she can   define who she is. Karen warns Dillon that he should not cross the line and cheat or the marriage will be over.  <br />  Dillon is walking through the Nordstrom Department Store when he sees a beautiful lady all dressed in leather.   For him it   triggers every sexual emotion that Dillion has ever had.  Veronica Wallace is her name and believe me when I tell you this   character will scare you all the way to the bone, she is truly wicked. Poor Dillon I guess some one forgot to tell him be   careful of what you wish for, you just might get it. This is only the start of an exhilarating, steamy, sexual obsession filled   with mystery that will hold you so tight you will have trouble breathing. DARKNESS BOUND has more twists and turns   than the roller coaster at Six-flags, Be careful you might get whiplash; but if you are like me you will hold on and keep   reading until the very last word.  <br />  The characters are well defined and Mr. Brooks does an excellent job at pulling you into their thoughts and lives as if they   were your own. Even though Detective Tim Rubin is mostly in the background he is my personal favorite, a Colombo type,   I never could resist Colombo. Look out for a breathless ending that will keep you wanting more books by Larry Brooks.  <br />  Hurry up Mr. Brooks and write your next novel.	2001-02-07
US	49709381	R2OKP770TN72SK	0385502532	903040762	Drowning Ruth: A Novel (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	REMARKABLY WRITTEN	DROWNING RUTH is Christina Schwarz's first novel, and what a brilliant outing it is! I can see why Oprah choose it for   her book club selection.      DROWNING RUTH starts off in the winter of 1919 and takes place in Wisconsin. Amanda Starkey, a nurse in   Milwaukee, finds herself burned out and returns to her family's farm on Lake Naguwaukee. Her sister Mattie and   3-year-old niece Ruth are living there and taking care of the farm while Mattie's husband Carl is away at war. Amanda soon   realizes that she cannot leave problems behind so things are stormy on the farm. About a year later, Mattie turns up missing   and is soon found dead in the frozen lake. Amanda assumes all responsibility of the farm, and Ruth until Carl returns. When   Carl does return, he is wounded, and it soon becomes clear that Amanda would rather not have him there at all. Amanda   wants to have Ruth all to herself. Ruth's childhood is not a very happy one; Amanda is over protective and rigid.     As the story unfolds, so do the secrets that were never meant to see the light of day. The story goes back and forth from the   past to the present and is told in the voices of Amanda, Carl, and Ruth. I actually thought that I had the ending figured out   before hand, but     I was wrong. I must admit that I was a tiny bit disappointed with the ending, but that does not take away the fact that   DROWNING RUTH is remarkably written and a very splendid read.	2001-02-07
US	49709381	R1Y446QSOGEKDM	0805064389	995680699	Iced (John MacRae Books)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	ONE THAT YOU WILL WANT TO READ	ICED takes place in Missoula Montana, where Meg Gardner an ex- con turned repo woman, is trying to get her life   together. Meg has to repo a jeep belonging to Clay Bennett, the same Clay Bennett that was just found dead. Meg figures   that it will be easy to get the jeep back, but once she has it back the trouble starts. Someone else wants     the jeep, next thing you know Meg is drawn into a murder mystery involving sex and violence. As Meg tries to solve the   mystery she must deal with her own ghosts from her past as well as deal with Russian thugs and Tina Red Dear, a Native   American woman who could very well be her half sister.      I thought that ICED was well written but left me with to many unanswered questions about Megs past. The mystery   involving Clay Bennett was top-notch with plenty of suspense. Meg is a protagonist that really wants to be left alone to live   her life low- key with coffee, cigarettes, beer, and burgers in that order.	2001-02-07
US	49709381	R2CSFOM3PBDKI6	0966987705	797695299	The Hatch and Brood of Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ONE THAT YOU WILL NOT BE ABLE TO PUT DOWN	THE HATCH AND BROOD OF TIME is the first in a series of Natalie Jorday. <br />    Natalie lives in the corner of northwestern New Jersey called Bergen County in a town called Haworth where she has    lived her whole life. She is a newspaper reporter that has a talent for getting all the facts. <br />   Natalie has a brother Daniel, who has been in trouble with the law most of his life and now an ex-girlfriend is found    murdered, 26-year-old Lydia Dow who was very pretty and obsessed with danger and the high that it gave her, was    found semi-frozen beneath the Parkway, she had been missing since Feb 8th, and police suspect that is the same day    that she died. Daniel is a suspect because of his past with the police.  Natalie feels that she is the only one to clear her    brother. This story is about relationships, family betrayal, greed and Natalie must sift through this maze and clear her    brother. <br />   The unique characters are all real to life and any one of them could be the murderer.  The author has created a woman    (Natalie) as fascinating as her world is haunting.  Natalie manages to uncover secrets of the past, even though some of    them may hurt her and Daniel. What a fabulous character she is! <br />   This is not just a mystery of &quot;who did it?&quot; but &quot;why?&quot;  Ellen Larsen's first outing is a force to be reckoned with, expect    big things from this author.	2001-01-01
US	49709381	R1YIY07Y7ESADQ	1885173660	556380666	Charlie's Web: A Mystery	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A CLASSIC COMEDY AND MYSTERY	CHARLIE'S WEB is the second outing of Lizbet Lange and Charlie; the first was CHARLIE'S BONES.  I have had    the good fortune to review both books and they are real winners. <br />   Lizbet got involved with Charlie Bilbo (a ghost) when in CHARLIE'S BONES, his body was unearthed while work men    were digging a swimming pool in Lizbet's back yard. She then helped Charlie solve his murder, which happened in 1969.    Afterwards Charlie went away and Lizbet had not heard from him till now, and he needs help again to solve the murder    of 10 year-old Rachel Wright who disappeared on Halloween night in 1973 from Oak Valley, California. <br />   Lizbet is now involved with Charlie's son, Jonathan, who was just a toddler when Charlie died.  Jonathan is a police    officer just like his father was; Jonathan has no idea that Lizbet has contact with Charlie.  If he did, he would not believe    it any way.  <br />   Lizbet and Charlie are able to communicate through thoughts, but at times Lizbet will forget and she will talk out loud.   It    gets her into trouble; people look at her as if she is losing her mind.  Lizbet is a wonderfully real protagonist, who has    down to earth values.  She cares a lot about people, even though she inherited millions of dollars and lives in a mansion.     Charlie is like a child; he will talk to Lizbet at the most inconvenient times.  She can be in a conversation with some one,    and Charlie will start yelling in her head to \\"do this\\" or \\"ask this question\\" or tell her \\"let's go now,\\" which makes it very    hard to concentrate on the topic at hand. <br />   CHARLIE'S WEB is a fast and sometimes capricious read, filled with classic lines of comedy. I was so enthralled with    this book that I was able to read it on a slow Saturday. It's a really grand book to read.  L.L. Thrasher, you have done it    again; hurry up with the next installment of Lizbet and Charlie.  Readers can expect a surprise ending.	2001-01-01
US	49709381	R1JS6BLGYXEXP1	0966107276	800898916	An Uncertain Currency	Books	3	0	0	N	N	AN IMMENSE RED	Mario Castigiani is a internationally accredited Psychic. He is called into action to help find a murderer. <br />   Beafort Tyler, the police chief of Floraville, Georgia calls upon Mario to help him prove that an old black man named    Roy Washington (who was a local celebrity from the civil rights days) was murdered and not a suicide as the coroner    thinks.  Roy was found hanging in his kitchen.  Does Roy's death have any thing to do with the hanging of Chief Tyler's    predecessor, Chief Rutherford Kendall?  He was also found hanging, but police officers usually use their weapons. <br />   AN UNCERTAIN CURRENCY is exquisitely written, with really entertaining and amiable characters, and a plot that    will hold you enraptured all the way to theclimatic ending. <br />   AN UNCERTAIN CURRENCY has everything that an immense book should have, homicide, mystery, affection,    eroticism, psychological tension, and racial discrimination all rolled into a nice tight mix.	2000-12-07
US	49709381	R32J7EWDAIWI8	0595004628	909287629	She Loves Me, She Loves Me Not: A Kim Claypoole Mystery (Kim Claypoole Mysteries)	Books	4	3	3	N	N	GUTSY FEMALE SLEUTH	SHE LOVES ME, SHE LOVES ME NOT is the first in a series of mysteries featuring Kim Claypoole. It's slow at    getting started, but stick with it. You will be glad that you did. <br />   Kim leaves her home in Gatlinburg, Tennessee, to go back to her hometown of Fogerty in rural southern Ohio to help her    mother, Evelyn, make some major decisions about selling off the radio station that her father had left Evelyn. Evelyn was    used to consuming large numbers of Manhattans through her day and this made her unable to make an unbiased    decision.   While Kim was helping her mother, Kim's cousin A.C. is murdered. His body is found behind the radio station    in a plastic bag inside the dumpster with a certain body part missing. Kim finds out that another murder had taken place    two-weeks before her arrival in Fogerty and was very similar. The other victim was a redneck crummy tavern owner by    the name of Jimmy Jacob's, and his throat was slashed, his body was found in the parking lot of the tavern. <br />   Amy Delozier an old friend of Kim's calls and asks for her help in clearing her brother who has been accused of killing    the two men.  Amy swears that her brother Rick Rod was at home at the time of the murders even though the bloody    knife was found under Rick's bed.  Can Kim help Amy clear her brother or not? <br />   Ms. Erhardt has a real winner on her hands with SHE LOVES ME, SHE LOVES ME NOT.  Most of the characters    are unpretentious back woods type that makes you laugh out loud sometimes. Kim is a real gutsy type of woman, who    drinks beer, smokes cigars and can out swear any sailor.  Some murder details are grisly, and this book is of a mature    nature. SHE LOVES ME, SHE LOVES ME NOT has mystery, amusement, small-town cops and their lack of    know-how and topless dancers thrown into the mix, an excellently written first book with conspiracy that's all rolled up    into a nice tight package with no loose ends remaining. <br />    I can hardlywait for the next Kim Claypoole mystery.	2000-12-07
US	49709381	R3VYNJNSI17H8J	1573228311	138216931	The Wholeness of a Broken Heart: A Novel	Books	3	4	4	N	N	RICH IN JEWISH HISTORY	THE WHOLENESS OF A BROKEN HEART is Katie Singer's first novel, but you won't be able to tell it.  This book, rich in  Jewish history, tells the story of four generations of mothers and daughters, each telling her own story.  The book spans  through the 1800's to the present day. <br /> To Hannah, growing up in Cleveland in the 1960's and 1970's her mother's (Celia) love is everything.  For Celia, her daughter  is her redemption from an unhappy childhood.    When Hannah goes off to college, Celia mysteriously shuts her daughter out,  which hurts Hannah very much.  As Hannah tries to understand her mother's rejection, Hannah looks into her Jewish  European roots for some answers.  Hannah must try to understand and get beyond the disturbing legacy of the Holocaust that  her mother had to face. <br /> THE WHOLENESS OF A BROKEN HEART has characters that are three-dimensional and mesmerizing.  Katie Singer has  written a love story about family that should be read by every mother and daughter.	2000-12-07
US	49709381	R37B3QVX9IML4D	0451191366	607821028	One False Move	Books	4	12	14	N	N	STARTS OFF WITH A BANG	ONE FALSE MOVE starts off with a bang!  Wow, I was hooked from the start. <br />  Malcolm Rutland III has just married 26-year-old Candace.  The reception    was being held at the Waldorf Astoria, and the bride and groom had the Presidential Suite for the night.  The couple had   decided to go up to their suite to change into something comfortable for the reception.  When they got to the room,   Malcolm decided to take a shower.  While her bridegroom is showering, Candace hears a noise.  When she turns around,   she sees a man, but it is to late for her to scream.  The knife comes down across her throat deeply, severing her vocal   cords, and her perfect day comes to a lethal end.  A day later Mitchell and Sydney Cunningham, who had attended the   wedding and reception of Malcolm and Candace, were the next victims.  Sydney was the first to be killed in their Park   Ave. apartment, as she was about to leave for a tennis game.  Her neck was cut clear to the spine.  She was found by her   husband, who knows what the murders are all about.  He tries to run, but before he can get away, he is murdered in the   same fashion as his wife.  The author's description of the murders are so chilling that you can all most envision it in your   mind's eye. <br />  The commander of Manhattan South, Jack Jennings Sr., and the Chief of New York City's Homicide Division, Liz Phillips,   take charge of the cases, since they arehigh profile.  Liz feels that, after the last two murders, they must get someone to go   under cover, since the suspected murderer is very affluent and powerful and well connected.  When Liz tells Jack that it   should be his daughter, Carla, Jack hits the ceiling.  He argues that Carla is not ready yet, even though she is a top cadet in   the academy.  She is not experienced enough for such a big case.  Carla overrules her father and decides that she will go   undercover for the Department.  Before she can go under cover she must completely metamorphose herself into someone   different.  Carla becomes Charlotte Desmond, who is classically tailored, well educated and a well-bred young woman   with a taste for the Tiffany style.  Even though her life depends on it, can Carla pull it off? <br />   Ms. Sauter sure did her homework when she wrote this book; the details on chemistry and the opera were factual.  The   heroine, Carla, fits into her role as a rich socialite like hand in a tailored glove.  The writing is very explicit and electrifying   enough, with many twists and turns, to keep you hanging on to every word, right up to the scandalous end.  I was really   sorry when this book ended; it was such an illustrious read.	2000-12-07
US	49709381	REPTG0P9V2FJN	0966515722	164261977	To Kill A King (Caroline Rhodes Mysteries)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	WORTH READING	TO KILL A KING is The third installment of Caroline Rhodes, the first was &quot;A DEADLY LITTLE CHRISTMAS &quot;    the second was, &quot;SOMETHING WICKED IN THE AIR &quot; <br />   This was my first Caroline Rhodes mystery and at times I was lost when there was a mention of Rhineburg and things    that happened there, That is why I feel that the books should be read in order. <br />   Caroline gets a cry of help from her best friend Molly O'Neal, so Caroline returns to Ascension Medical Center to help    her friend out. Caroline has no idea what she is     getting herself into.  Two days after Caroline arrives, Angela Horowitz is murdered in her     apartment.  A few days after that, there is another murder; this time Mac Guffy is found hanged in one of the emergency    rooms.  Molly is soon arrested, and Caroline will do what ever she can to clear her friends name. <br />   TO KILL A KING is an expeditious, cheerful read that flows through in a timely manner. Best of all it is filled with    credible, amiable characters. The author puts her nursing background to good use; she is able to get the hospital setting    and politics that go along with the running of a hospital just right. Thanks Mary for an admirable read. <br />   Pam Stone	2000-11-28
US	49709381	R3C03U57OQPWT4	1878044613	321717100	And Then She Was Gone	Books	5	4	4	N	N	A MOTHER'S WORST NIGHTMARE	AND SHE WAS GONE Susan McBride Mayhaven Publishing    -   1999 ISBN: 1878044613  -  Trade paperback Mystery/Police<br />The Spencers, Tom, Ellen, Jake and Carrie live in the small town of Litchfield, Texas, just a few miles north of Dallas.  Crime is not supposed to happen in small towns, but Ellen finds out otherwise, when she takes her 4-year-old daughter, Carrie, to the park on a Saturday afternoon.<br />Ellen is sitting on a bench, speaking to her neighbor, Barb Vincente.  When Ellen looks back a few minutes later, Carrie, is gone.  Ellen is distraught she looks everywhere for her daughter.  Ellen wonders how a child can disappear in broad daylight at a park filled with families, and soccer games going on.<br />Maggie Ryan and her partner John Phillips catch the case of the missing child.  Maggie gets a visit from the sheriff of Pecan Creek, a small rural town about an hour away from Litchfield, that a 6-year-old blond haired, blue-eyed little boy went missing from his front yard.  His name was Kenny Wayne.  Could the cases be connected?  There are many questions to answer. What is the reason for brother Jakes anger and lack of concern for his sister's disappearance?<br />Maggie Ryan is a very fascinating character.  Susan McBride grabbed my attention in the first few sentences and kept me hanging on until the end. AND THEN SHE WAS GONE really tugs at your heartstrings.<br />The author is able to capture and express the feelings of helplessness and terror that a parent feels when a child goes missing, a terror that we all hope that we will never have to feel.<br />Kudos to Susan McBride	2000-11-14
US	49709381	R3PM7OXXDPLXMD	0966347323	684236444	A Deadly Dozen	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A DEADLY DOZEN	A DEADLY DOZEN  (TALES OF MURDER FROM LOS ANGELES ) is the third anthology following the 1997    DESSERTICIDE  (DESSERTS TO DIE FOR ) and 1998 MURDER BY THIRTEEN. <br />   The Los Angles chapter of Sisters in Crime has released a book of twelve short stories, based on murder and mayhem.     I usually do not like to read short stories, but these stories were fully contained with well-crafted plots and well defined    characters.  My favorites were Wifely Duties, because every woman can identify with Lucy and her discontent with her    marriage, but I would like to think that we would not go to the lengths that she did, and with such a startling conclusion.     Cats and Jammer was another favorite, it's about a teen-age detective that finds a body and the suspects are many. <br />   Stories included are:     Sentience Imposed by Kris Neri     Wifely Duties by Cory Newman     Push Comes To Shove by Nathan Walpow     Fatal Tears by Ekaterine Nikas     Miss Parker and the Cutter Sanborn Tablets by Gay Tolti Kinman     Driven To Kill by Jamie Wallace     Touch Of A Vanish'd Hand by Phil Mann     Ai Witness by Kate Tornton     Over My Shoulder by Lisa Seidman     The Cats And Jammer, by Gayle McGary     Copy Cat by Joan Myers     Midnight by Dorothy Rellas <br />   This book is well worth the read.	2000-11-14
US	49709381	R3E7B2S9CN3OIC	0767906632	450702508	Life Makeovers: 52 Practical & Inspiring Ways To Improve Your Life One Week At A Time	Books	5	35	40	N	N	THE BEST THERE IS	Cheryl Richardson is also the author of the # 1 New York Times Bestseller &quot;TAKE TIME FOR YOUR LIFE &quot;. <br /> How often do we day dream about living a better life?  I know that we all wonder what's missing in our lives.  So many of us  long for time to discover who we are and what we really want out of life, I know that I do.  At 46 I sometimes feel lost and  wonder where my life has gone to.  LIFE MAKEOVERS is showing me how to know what I want and how to achieve it.  The  author shows us how to identify and eliminate the things that are draining our energy and how to exchange unhealthy forms of  fuel, like caffeine and sugar for healthier forms, one being a personal spiritual practice.  <br /> Some of the other wonderful chapters are: <br /> Week 6 What's Draining you   Week 8 What's fueling you   Week 13 Spring into fitness   Week 26 Throw caution to the wind   Week 37 Fix what's broken   Week 39 Settle for more   Week 43 The power of love   Week 50 Shake up your life   Week 52 The power of prayer <br /> All through LIFE MAKEOVERS, each and every chapter is very special in it's own way.  The chapters listed above are the  ones that helped me the most and enabled me to make some hard decisions for myself and my life that I was afraid to make.   Believe me when I say that this is a book that will empower you like never before.	2000-11-05
US	49709381	RRD5TLID5ZQ8D	0525945393	640736445	Life on the Other Side: A Psychic's Tour of the Afterlife	Books	3	13	19	N	N	TO FAR-FETCHED	When I was given LIFE ON THE OTHER SIDE to review, I was very happy about it.  I had seen Sylvia Browne on the  Montel show several years ago, and have tried to watch every Montel show that she was on.  I have seen her solve murder  cases for the police and help families find their loved-ones, or their remains, and Sylvia has been right on the money. <br /> In the first part of the book, she speaks of the many dimensions and planes, and that the place we gravitate to depends on our  actions on earth.  Of course, we already knew that. Sylvia also includes a meditation technique for finding your &quot;true&quot; name  which to me sounds a little far-fetched.  Meditation we could all use, but come on.  I think that I already know my &quot;true&quot; name.   Sylvia also tells us about her &quot;spirit guide&quot; Francine and what Francine tells her about the other side and how perfect it is on the  other side.  She also talks about out of body experiences.  At the end of the book she has several pictures of what the afterlife  looks like.  I personally could not buy into the picture theory, but that is my own opinion. <br /> LIFE ON THE OTHER SIDE is a very interesting read.	2000-11-05
US	49709381	REFLBCNVQENI	0515126500	761252561	Do No Harm	Books	4	16	18	N	N	VERY INTENSE	Dr. Sarchi Seminoux, a Memphis Pediatric resident, gets a call from Marge, her nephew's adoptive mother, that they are   bringing Drew into the emergency room, and Marge wants Sarchi to be there when they arrive.  Drew can't move or talk,   but all his vitals are O.K.,    blood tests are all normal, he is breathing on his own.  They put him through all kinds of tests, but they all come back   normal.  On the seventh day of Drew's hospitalization the HMO steps in and says that they will not pay the hospital bills   unless Drew is moved to a clinic in New Orleans.  Dr. Latham is a brilliant brain surgeon and he seems to think that he can   help Drew, but he refuses to go into any details with Marge or Sarchi.  Drew gets his operation, but Sarchi notices some   side effects.  Sarchi decides to look into Dr. Latham's practices, but as she does, Dr. Latham tries to ruin Sarchi's   reputation.  Can Sarchi make the hospital and the other Drs. see what Dr.Latham is and how he is harming patients?  And   can she rebuild her reputation? <br />  Dr. Latham the villain in DO NO HARM and has a god like ego.  He really believes that he has the right to use his craft in   any way he chooses without, regard to the patient's future, or lack of one.  To me this is the worst kind of criminal, but sure   makes an interesting character to read about.  Sarchi is a very bright heroine who will go to any lengths to make things right   for every one.  I thought the story line was very intense and has a surprise ending.	2000-11-05
US	49709381	R1F1E65RDBUBQK	1888310936	388357302	Phantom Virus: A Bomber Hanson Mystery	Books	4	1	1	N	N	ONE HECK OF A READ	PHANTOM VIRUS is the fourth installment of David Champion's series of legal mysteries. The first is &quot;Mountain   Massacres,&quot; the second &quot;Nobody Roots For    Goliath,&quot; and &quot;Celebrity Trouble&quot; is the third. <br />  Angelo Scioria has lost his daughter, Merilee, to a virus called &quot;Wanns&quot; (an aids like virus) that was supposedly passed to   her by her dentist.  He has already been sued, and the Sciorias won a 2-million dollar lawsuit from the estate of the dentist.    Now Angelo and his wife, Regina, have heard from a Dr. Walter Daimler, from Berkley College, that the drug JCD that   was used for Wann's patients is toxic and killing patients rather than helping them. Angelo and Regina go to ostentatious   lawyer Bomber Hanson to see if he will take the case to sue Dr. Carl Valentine, the maker of the JCD drug.  At first,   Bomber does not want to help them, but soon changes his mind.  Bomber sends in his son Todd as he always does to   investigate.  Todd, with his very engaging personality, gets the witnesses to open up and testify in court; that's where   Bomber comes in with his flashy courtroom style.  But is that enough to win this case? <br />  PHANTOM VIRUS is a free-flowing story line with lots of surprises mixed in.  Bomber Hanson woos the courtroom with   the flamboyant theatrics he is known for.  It's a book that you will not be able to put down until you have finished; it really   grabs you right from the very beginning.	2000-11-05
US	49709381	R1Y264UWN1NMWE	0399146245	897342569	24 Hours	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A BOOK THAT YOU WON'T BE ABLE TO PUT DOWN	24 HOURS is one of those books that once you start reading it, your heart starts to race and your hands refuse to release   the book until you have finished reading the whole book, and boy is it worth it. <br />  John Hickey is a mad genius, one of the worst kind, who has mastered the crime of kidnapping.  Hickey is so good at it, he   can exact his crime in 24 Hours.   With hellish precision, he squeezes a family's pressure points, extorts the ransom and   vanishes into thin air, leaving the hostages alive (his promise is the kid always makes it out alive), but the family is too   shattered to call the police.  Hickey has carried out his plan five times now and hasn't been caught.  He has his sights on his   next victim, Abby Jennings, the five-year old daughter of Dr. Will Jennings and his wife, Karen, of Jackson Mississippi; this   time there is a possible problem that Hickey does not know about. <br />  Greg IIes takes a parent's greatest horror, the kidnapping of a child, and turns it into a whopper of a chiller.  As the title   tells us, the book takes place in 24 HOURS.  But in that 24 hours, though you move along at a frenzied pace, you also get   to know each and every character intimately.  The story line is disturbing and yet fascinating at the same time.	2000-11-05
US	49709381	RK8T9I4U388GC	0966602102	924310739	When the Dead Speak	Books	5	35	35	N	N	A Fast-Paced, Topsy-Turvy Ride	It started with a wreck in Chasen Heights, a mainly blue collar town on the Southern border of Lake Michigan just fifteen   miles north of Chicago. A corvette cuts off a semi on the expressway and causes the semi to hit the center medium and   jack knive, exposing enough concrete all the way up to the cement pillar where it connected to the overpass. Enough   concrete had broken away to expose mummified remains, perfectly preserved.  <br />  Jake Mitchell and his partner Frank Travis get the case, along with their new partner Detective Sergeant Sam Casey who is   not the usual police officer. She has inherited a gift from her mother and grandmother. Sam's mom Abby is a Sioux   medicine woman, and they both have the ability to speak to the dead. Sam knows facts that no one else knows.  <br />  The body that was encased in cement was that of a solider from the Korean War who was reported AWOL and in his   hand was a lighting bolt pin, which when Sam touched, she saw dozens of lighting bolt shapes. She also saw body parts   lying in a field. Sam felt a cold wave go up her body and the hair raise than the vision ended.  Sam remembers that she saw   another lighting bolt pin in a safe of State Representative Preston Hillard when she was under cover at his home. Hillard   claims to know nothing about the pin and never knew the dead man.  Sam finds out that her dad had one in his jewelry   box.  What do the solider and her father have to do with each other?   Sam must uncover the facts even though her own   boss Murphy has closed the case for good. <br />   WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK is a fast-paced, topsy-turvy ride that mixed with humor and a little loving along the way will   keep you enthralled all the way through the book.  I really liked the fact that mixed into the pot is some Native American    Culture, which made the book even more tantalizing. I can hardly wait for the next Sam Casey mystery to come out.   Expect great things from this author.	2000-10-11
US	49709381	RMOXS35PFZAF0	0966636635	170011097	Death Pact	Books	5	1	3	N	N	THE BEST AND MOST SHOCKING END	Attorney Richard Coleman is asked by client Franklin Fox to be the legal trustee for his 17-year-old daughter Erica Fox if   anything should happen to him. Less than a week later, Richard gets a call in the early morning hours from a John Paul   Moitz with the American Consulate in Berne, Switzerland, telling him that Franklin Fox had been killed in a skiing accident,   and that Erica was quite distressed and claiming that Richard was her guardian. Richard goes to Switzerland and brings   Erica home. Shortly after they return to the States, Erica seduces Richard and even though he knows that it is wrong, he   lets it happen. Before long they are in love. Richard knows that he could lose his license if word of their liaison gets out;   they are able to keep it quiet for quite a while until Erica's Aunt Martha finds out. Aunt Martha really only wants the   money. She could care less about Erica's feelings so she decides to start a lawsuit against Richard and have him removed   as trustee of the estate.  <br />  Before Aunt Martha can reach her son Arnold about the lawsuit, she is murdered in her hotel room and Erica's purse is   found in the room. At about the same time Richard is found unconscious in an alley. The next day when he comes to, he   remembers nothing about what happened to him. While he is watching a news broadcast, he hears that Erica has been   arrested. He knows without a doubt that Erica could not murder anyone; he has to leave the hospital and find the real killer.   Erica convinces Richard that if she is convicted they should make a death pact. Richard really doesn't want to die, so he   knows that he must find the killer before it's too late. This is where the storyline really takes off! <br />  Death Pact is so wonderfully written with plenty of surprises. I was guessing till the very end, and what an unexpected,   shocking end it was! The setting is in Dallas in the 1980's, and from the author's descriptions, I felt as if I was there. <br />  The characters are really well defined and believable, especially Aunt Martha -- The more that I read about her meanness,   the less guilty I felt that she died so she couldn't cause any more trouble. The romance was very fiery and passionate   between Richard and Erica. You could almost feel the warmth radiate through the pages. <br />  Death Pact is a grand read.  My highest score is a 5 and this book definitely deserves a HIGH  rating.	2000-10-11
US	49709381	REK9K523LF1M6	0966602129	169710631	Nothing Else Matters (Sam Casey Mystery Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Extraordinary Characters	NOTHING ELSE MATTERS  (A SAM CASEY MYSTERY) S.D. Tooley Full Moon Publishing  - April 2000 ISBN: 0966602129 - H.C. Mystery / P.I.<br />NOTHING ELSE MATTERS is the second SAM CASEY MYSTERY; the first was WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK.<br />Sam Casey is back again, and this time she is suspended from the force, married to Jake Mitchell, pregnant, and not ready just yet to tell Jake the news as she blames him for her suspension. This book starts off where the last one left off and goes over things of importance from WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK so if the reader has not read it, they will not be confused. There is a murder on the River Queen Casino. Reverend Smith was murdered and found with fifty-thousand dollars on his body.  The owners of the River Queen Casino, Harold McFadden, William Bordon Sr, and William Bordon Jr, hire Sam to investigate the murder, and clear the River Queen of any wrongdoing. This means that she will be running into Jake, for he is assigned the case by the police department.  While on the River Queen, Sam picks up a book of matches on the bar, and she gets chilled all over as she picks up images of the killer, she hears voices crying out and sees a vision of a tattoo of a bird and underneath it is the word &quot;Sparrow.&quot;<br />NOTHING ELSE MATTERS is just as rich in details and grand writing style as WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK.  The author manages to pull you into the story line so well that you want the story of Sam and her friends to keep on going. There is Tim the young computer genesis, Jackie Delaney the ex-hooker friend that has helped Sam in the past and would do anything for her friend Sam. There are so many extraordinary characters, each one well defined in their own way and fitting into the plot and just like WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK, you get more Native American Culture.<br />This book kept me hanging on every word till the very end. I can't wait for the next installment of Sam Casey.  Keep up the great writing S.D. Tooley and bring us a lot more Sam Casey Mysteries.<br /> Pam Stone	2000-10-02
US	49709381	R200992IIJX9BT	0966602110	475559225	The Good Die Twice (Chase Dagger Mysteries)	Books	4	17	17	N	N	WELL WORTH READING	THE GOOD DIE TWICE is the first in a planned Chase Dagger series.<br />Chase Dagger has sent his assistant Sara on a stakeout, and she witnesses a murder but by the time that she gets back with Chase there is no evidence of a murder. Chase knows Sara well enough to know that if she said she saw it, it really happened, so they look around and in the fireplace under a log they find a single earring.<br /> <br />Chase is invited to a party the next evening and the party is given by the rich and powerful Robert Tyler, the father of Shelia Tyler, Chases former fianc, who now refuses to take \\"no\\" for an answer and believes that Chase wants no part of her, but Chase decides to go anyway and take Sara as his date. Once there, Sara sees a picture of the blond that she saw murdered just forty-one hours before. When she and Chase start asking around they find out that the blond is Rachel Tyler and she went missing five years earlier when she was thought to have fell overboard.  Robert Tyler hires Dagger Investigations to look into his wife's disappearance. Dagger and Sara decide not to tell Robert Tyler what Sara had witnessed the day before.<br />This is a very well spun mystery that has more twists and turns than a roller coaster. Just when you think that you have it all figured out, boom! there goes another bomb off. There are so many great characters in this book. My favorite two are Einstein, a bright red Macaw who has some very colorful language, and he repeats what ever he hears. Einstein loves to sing at the mailman &quot; Mr. Postman Please Mr. Postman &quot;, and then there is Sara, a very special young lady who is Native American and was home schooled by her grand mother Ada Kills Bull. Sara has the talent to &quot;shape-shift &quot; and, according to Native Mythology, it means to shift between human and animal forms, Sara could change into a hawk or gray wolf, allowing Sara to be undercover, up close, and not be noticed. <br /> <br />Be prepared for when you start reading this book. You will not be able to put it down. I couldn't.	2000-10-02
US	49709381	R2GK9C602FMWN4	096341836X	866138807	Carve a Witness to Shreds: A Journals of Kate Cavanaugh Mystery	Books	3	1	1	N	N	A GOOD COZY	CARVE A WITNESS TO SHREDS is the 3rd installment of Kate Cavanaugh, the first one was &quot; ADD ONE DEAD CRITIC &quot; and the second was &quot; BEAT A ROTTEN EGG TO THE PUNCH&quot;.<br />Charlotte Oakly asks Kate to investigate Victor Lloyd who is an obnoxious, over confident man with a seedy sales pitch, for a real estate developer. Kate reminds Charlotte that she is a caterer and not a private investigator. Charlotte says that she cannot trust anyone else to do it for her except Kate since Victor is the father of the young Eric whom her daughter Melissa is engaged to, and she does not want Melissa to marry someone connected to the mob. Charlotte reminds Kate that she did solve a couple of murders this year; Kate tells her there was a difference.  She did not set out to be involved in solving the murders. It was dumped into her lap.  Kate is used to Clairmont blue bloods hiring her to help them celebrate their families wedding not to prevent them from taking place. Lately, though, Kate has been feeling a melancholy grab her. Getting tired of walking into her kitchen and trying to generate enthusiasm for the day's list of parties and the awaiting crowds of hungry mouths, Kate is going through a career burnout. All of the sudden the idea of an investigation appeals to Kate. Kate calls Charlotte that she will do the job for her, and she will start that night at the River Boat Party that is giving by Victor Lloyd.<br />Victor Lloyd's party was to show off his plans of things to come on the Cincinnati- Northern Kentucky Riverport area.  It will be a place called the Oasis, which will have top name adult entertainment, singers, comics, musical reviews, and even its own chorus line dancers.  While Kate was out on deck trying to pick up some info on Victor she hears &quot;man overboard!&quot; as she looks down she sees a Victor Lloyd's badly mauled body in the water. Kate is summoned to see Victor's Uncle Peepo, who now wants to hire Kate to find out what happened Victor, even though the police think it was an accident.<br />CARVE A WITNESS TO SHREDS is the best of the three Kate Cavanaugh Mysteries.  It is very well written with lots of twists and turns. A lot of the same fetching characters from the first two books are in this book also; even Mr. Boo-Kat who has his own problems in this outing. A loose coyote on the farm is hindering his freedom.  I really liked the fact that the author goes over facts from the previous books so if the reader has not read the other books he or she is not totally lost. The facts maybe considered spoilers by some. So if you are planning to read the series you may want to start from the beginning.	2000-10-02
US	49709381	R2TNE8L0OR8SP3	0963418343	372378657	Add One Dead Critic: Journals of Kate Cavanaugh	Books	3	4	4	N	N	A GOOD COZY	This is the first installment of the Kate Cavanaugh Culinary mysteries.<br /> <br />Kate Cavanaugh is heir to the Crown Chili fortune and one of Cincinnati's favorite theme party consultants.  Preston Schneider, a friend of Kate's, who runs also the restaurant and fine arts critic for Cincinnati's Life Magazine was found slumped over the organ in the sanctuary of the First Community Church of Clairmont. The suspect list was long as he was called \\"restaurant critic from hell\\".<br /> <br />Kate is also catering a Christmas party for her mother Patricia Cavanaugh, better known as Tink. As far as Tink is concerned, Kate can do nothing right.  Tink is what I would call a mommy dearest for sure.<br /> <br />On top of all this, Kate's friend Cherry Jublanski comes to town for a visit.  They have not seen each other in over twenty years. Kate definitely has her hands full but she feels compelled to solve the murder of Preston Schneider.<br /> <br />Add One Dead Critic is well written with a plot that flows with consistency.  Characters are rich with content and humor.  I really liked the fact that the author included Mr. Boo-kat, a Welsh terrier and his high-jinx.<br /> <br />Included in this book are recipes that sound wonderful and I intend to try them.<br /> <br />This is a very light-hearted read.	2000-10-02
US	49709381	R1EMLT933SJ4Q8	0966602137	924310739	When the Dead Speak (Sam Casey Mysteries)	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A GREAT READ	<br />WHEN THE DEAD SPEAK is a fast-paced, topsy-turvy ride that mixed with humor and a little loving along the way will keep you enthralled all the way through the book.  I really liked the fact that mixed into the pot is some Native American Culture, which made the book even more tantalizing. I can hardly wait for the next Sam Casey mystery to come out.  Expect great things from this author.	2000-10-02
US	49709381	R1VTLHTKFRVCM1	0963418351	84679842	Beat a Rotten Egg to the Punch: A Journals of Kate Cavanaugh Mystery	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Worth Reading	Beat a Rotten Egg to the Punch is the second installment of Kate Cavanaugh culinary mystery. The first was Add One Dead Critic.<br />Kate is out walking Mr. Boo-kat or shall we say trying to walk him, Welsh Terriers are the most obstinate animals on earth.  As they are walk closer to a storefront that someone has been working on opening, she hears a fight between two men.  One of the men is pushed in the store window and through the blinds. Kate sees a shoulder and hears yelling.<br />The first voice yelled, &quot;You are pressuring me.&quot;<br />The second yells, &quot;You can be replaced, you know&quot;.<br />&quot;Not with my connections.  You need me,&quot; the first yells again<br />&quot;Forget about it.  Big Gabe cannot protect you now,&quot; the second yells.<br />Kate decides to take off fast but Mr. Boo-kat and his typical bark, &quot;loud enough to wake the dead&quot; let the men know that someone had heard the confrontation.  Kate, running and dragging the beast, hears a door slam and then running.  Then she hears a car door open and shut. The engine roared to life, tires squealed and car roared away.  She wished that she had gone to the police station to report what went on.<br />The next morning as she and Mr. Boo-kat are walking, Kate sees a man running out of the same storefront that she heard the fight.  Kate goes in to look around and finds the body of Brad Holtman.  Kate decides that it is time to go to the police station. When she arrives, she hears the young man that she saw running from the building earlier say, &quot;That's her.  She killed him.&quot; Now she finds herself accused of murder and must clear her name.<br />Beat a Rotten Egg to the Punch was just as good a read as One Dead Critic with some of the same characters, and a few new ones that are just as interesting. It's an unforgettable addition to this cozy series. Included in the book are more recipes. Cathie John knows what she writes.  She has a passion for food and has worked inthe catering and restaurant industry.	2000-09-27
US	49709381	RQX441GCMA5T8	0805065075	842956406	"G" Is for Grafton: The World of Kinsey Millhone	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Everything you wanted to know	G IS FOR GRAFTON, won the 1998 Edgar Award for best Biographical  work.<br />Kinsey Millhone's world is one that many of us have been visiting  for eighteen years through the pages of Grafton's popular alphabet  detective series. By now with Grafton more than half way through the  alphabet, many readers have become thoroughly addicted to this appealing  private detective who lives and works in Santa Teresa, California. So  naturally we want to know every single thing about her.   Kinsey's  combination of toughness and vunerabilty, bravery and intellectual  keenness, compassion and aloofness, engages a wide range of reader of all  ages and careers.  Kinsey's ability to defeat the enemy in a terrifying  final confrontation.     The personal struggles that she goes through in  order  to do the clean-up, reassure us that our own fears and phobias are  both normal and manageable.  If Kinsey is scared of getting an injection  from the nurse, yet is capable of running after a murderer and tackling him  to the ground, then maybe we can gather up nerve to go on with our daily  lives.<br />Each chapter of the book explores some aspect of Kinsey's life or  character, beginning with the specifics of her biography, her daily life,  her friends, her favorite places, and her work.  Readers may want to use  the table of contents which is detailed enough to allow a reader who, for  example, wants to know how Kinsey found Henry Pitts and her apartment or  when her apartment was bombed and rebuilt, can learn the answer in chapter  3:  Kinsey's daily life under apartments. In Chapter 4 you will find out  why you will never know her full name.<br />This book is a very informative  book about an intriguing character that most of us love.  We learn  everything about Kinsey and everything in her life that we ever wanted to  know.  What a wonderful book.	2000-09-16
US	49709381	RRR5Y27NP250Q	1929976003	592011163	Texas Weather: A Novel	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Worth Reading	David Weather is a Dallas County Assistant District Attorney in 1947.     He is assigned the case of Philip Bauman, a Houston shipping line heir,  socialite, dilettante man about town who stands   accused of a brutal  slashing murder that took place in Dallas.  The killing was similar to  several murders that started up in   Houston during the war.  The Houston  killer, dubbed the \\"Maniac\\" in the hometown press, was credited with 17  straight razor   murders in and around the city.  Most of the dead were  prostitutes, while a few were plain old dirt poor, ignorant girls.  David    must make his case while he has a reporter, Francy Cotton, on his trail  wanting a story even though she knows that Judge   Skelton has imposed a  gag order.  Francy also wants David to talk about his dad's death that took  place in 1932.  Francy feels   that it was murder and not an accident.   David must battle several issues at once.  An anonymous messenger threatens  his   fiancee, Leslie Holcomb, while old and new family secrets endanger  his freedom and his life. <br />  The story line was very interesting and well  plotted.  The characters fit well into the story line.  Descriptions of the  crimes are   frank and gruesome at times.  This is a good read	2000-09-07
US	49709381	R1DPWF1QYMEJ0V	0966636694	750748787	Second Chair (A Stan Turner Mystery) (Stan Turner Mysteries)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Wonderful Read	Second Chair is the 3rd installment of Stan Turner, The 1st was UNDAUNTED  and the 2nd was BRASH ENDEAVOR. <br />  Dallas Attorney Stan Turner and his  wife Rebekah are having a Christmas party with family, friends, and clients  as their   guests. During the party the lights go out. As Stan gets the  fuse changed and the lights come back on, he hears a scream.   Stan rushes  to where he heard the scream come from and sees his friend and CPA Bobby  Wiggins lying in the flowerbed   face up. The cause of death is massive  coronary caused by the fall on the ice. Marleen Wiggins decides to sue Stan  for 2   million dollars because of negligence in not sanding the sidewalk.  <br />  This is only one of the cases that Stan is working on. Stan is asked  to defend a young woman named Sarah Winters for killing   her child, which  she claims to remember nothing about.  Before the trial even gets started,  Stan and his family start getting   threats through the mail, the letters  are cut out of magazines so they can not be traced, the first one said:   <br />  \\"YE DEFENDERS OF THE DEVIL BEWARE!     DEATH WILL BE YOUR ONLY REWARD.      REPENT BEFORE YOU FACE ETERNAL DAMNATION.     TIME IS SHORT UNTIL THE  LIVING WILL AVENGE THE DEAD.\\"    Signed DOOMSLAYER. <br />  After a court  appearance, Stan's beautiful corvette has all of its tires slashed and  windows broken out and a message   scratched on his hood saying;  \\" YE  SHALL NOT ESCAPE THE VENGEANCE OF THE LORD. -- DOOMSLAYER. <br />  Even after  all of that, Stan decides to keep on defending Sarah because he believes in  her innocence. After the trial starts,   Stan is all most run down in the  parking garage, his dog is also killed in their back yard, and his trial  note book is stolen out of   his office the night before a court appearance  and he must recreate the note book in 8 hours before court reconvenes. <br />   Stan Turner is a very pleasant guy and the kind of lawyer that we would all  love to have in our corner. All of the characters   are believable and fit  into the plot. <br />  William Manchee has done it again with  \\" Second Chair  \\". I have not had the pleasure of reading the first two Stan Turner    Mysteries, \\" Undaunted \\" and \\" Brash Endeavor \\" but you can bet that I will  be adding them both to my private collection of   books. I have had the  honor of reading  \\" Death Pact \\" to review, and I will say that it is the  best book that I have ever read   so far; \\" Second Chair \\" is a close  second to  \\" Death Pact. \\" <br />  William Manchee can spin a tale that  totally keeps you holding on and wanting more. You can bet that I will read  anything that   this talented author puts out. <br />  Kudos to William  Manchee for a 5 star read again!	2000-09-07
US	49709381	RYR78TH43GAIR	0684859718	666165371	Deadly Decisions	Books	5	4	5	N	N	The Best Yet	This is the 3rd installment of Temperance Brennan, the 1st was Deja Dead  and the 2nd was Death du Jour. <br />  Tempe is back with an even more complex  case this time around. She is still the forensic anthropologist in both  Montreal   and North Carolina. Pierre LaManche is Tempe's boss, and he is  in the hospital so Tempe must take over the case. A child   is involved so  it really gets to the core of her being, and she wants to solve the case  and fast, but she knows it will not be   easy. Two Outlawed Motorcycle Gang  members are dead from a vicious and ongoing altercation between the  Heathens   and the Vipers. The two gang members were blown up by a bomb  into a million small parts, and what makes it even harder   for Tempe. The  bikers were identical twins with matching DNA. Tempe takes identifying the  bikers as relatively routine   part of her job, like putting a forensic  puzzle together. The Heathens strike back at the Vipers, and unfortunately  a   nine-year-old girl named Emily Anne Toussant, who was on her way to  school, gets caught in the crossfire. For Tempe that   becomes her  cataplasm she joins the gang task force. They discover a teenaged girl's  body buried at a biker clubhouse.   The girl is Savannah Osprey who was  last seen thumbing a ride with a transient biker. Also drawn into the case  is Tempe's   nephew Kit, who doesn't realize that these gangs are the kiss  of death for outsiders. Lyle Crease is a smart-aleck   newscaster who wants  to use Kit to get to Tempe. Be prepared for the body count to rise in this  outing. <br />  I was as grabbed with Deadly Decisions as I was with Deja Dead  and Death du Jour. This book is filled with rich details of   the cutting  edge forensic techniques that Kathy Reichs uses in her real life work,  that's why the forensic details are so   gruesome. The author takes the  reader into the dark and shocking world of the international motorcycle  gangs, and what a   wild ride it is, it will scare the pants off of you at  times.  <br />  This book was fast-paced and bone chilling and is going to  make Kathy Reichs star shine even brighter than before.	2000-08-07
US	49709381	R1NJGQ0BGO0DMB	096663666X	953284582	When Colette Died	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Great Read	Debbie Gunther had a dreadful childhood. When her mother died in childbirth, her father blamed her and would not take   her to raise her.  Debbie was raised for eight years by her grandmother, who let her know on a  daily basis that she was not   wanted there. So, at the age of eight, her  grandmother got in touch with her father and told him to take Debbie, or  she   would have him brought up on abandonment charges. Debbie's father  took her but he treated her badly the whole time that   he had her. <br />   After a choir teacher of Debbie's told her how much she looks like a famous  Las Vegas singer named Colette, Debbie   learns everything she can about  Colette and becomes an impersonator for the stage. Debbie is hired at the  Crystal Palace   Casino--the very place that Colette was working and where  she was murdered. <br />  Debbie is apprehensive from the very beginning. She  receives a note, which she tries to ignore, but the very dress that    Colette is murdered in arrives for her and then roses arrive for  Debbie--all yellow with one red rose in the middle, the same   exact  bouquet that Colette was given on stage just before she was shot. Debbie  believes that the only one she can confide   in is Dan Springer, a young  reporter who is supposed to do a story on Debbie. Dan Springer has his own  conflicts to deal   with. There is a strong attraction between Dan and  Debbie, but Dan is determined not to fall for Debbie. Debbie's problem   is  wondering if she can trust Dan to find out who wants her dead before it is  too late. <br />  This a top notch suspense story filled with a lot of  fast-paced action along with more twists and turns than you have ever    seen and an ending that is truly a surprise for the reader. The characters  are real, and they all have their own agendas. The   characters of Dan and  Debbie are written with such rich details they feel like true friends to  the reader. This book is set   with Las Vegas as the background. L.C.  Haydenhas done it again. First there was \\"Who's Susan\\" and now \\"When    Colette Died.\\" I can hardly wait for her next book to come out.	2000-08-07
US	49709381	R3MWO3M7LKJ65Y	0966636619	751460921	Who's Susan	Books	5	2	2	N	N	wonderful	When Susan Haynes goes to Happy Child Day Center to pick up her son Tommy, the manager Ms.Cortez tells her that   she had already signed her son out  at noon. Susan freaks because she knows that this is not true. She then  calls her   husband, Jeff at the bank, and he tells her to call the police.  Susan is somewhat afraid to call the police because of her   background.  See, Susan does not remember 18 years of her life. All that she has been  told is that the family chauffeur,   Saul, dropped her off in Dallas at  Bell View Mental Institute at the age of 8 years old completely catatonic.  <br />  As the investigation begins, everyone is willing to believe and assist  Susan, but with each detail of her psychiatric care   revealed in news  reports, people begin to blame her. She is then left with only the support  of her husband Jeff and   Detective Harry Bronson, the detective assigned  to investigate what happened to little Timmy. Jeff, feeling that he can no    longer trust her, eventually deserts her too. Detective Bronson tells  Susan that he needs her to take a polygraph test   because the District  Attorney's Office had doubts. He assures her that he does believe her, but  that this will help prove she   is innocent of kidnapping her son. <br />  She  begins to feel that her past is connected to her son's disappearance so she  decides to go back to Pine Basin, New   Mexico without telling anyone. She  sets out to answer the questions to her past and hopefully find Timmy.  <br />   The book from the very first page mesmerized me. The author keeps you  hanging on to her every word, and it stays that   way through the entire  book. There are so many ups and downs in the book that you feel like you  are on a roller coaster   ride. This book is filled with characters that  are real to life. My two favorite characters are Susan, who was willing to  risk   life and limb to recover her son, and Detective Bronson, who is a  Columbo-kind of cop that dresses and appearsto be   incompetent, but watch  out for him. He is as sly as a fox and he sticks by Susan the entire time  when even her husband   abandons her. This was a well-written, high-pitched  suspense story with an ending you would not believe.	2000-08-07
US	49709381	R2MM9KGS3V134T	076790186X	278797406	Passing for Normal: A Memoir of Compulsion	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Very Brave	Amy Wilensky tells a powerful first-hand account of living with Tourette  syndrome and    obsessive compulsive disorder. <br />  Amy Wilensky, at the  age of 8 years old, began to have symptoms, first there was a tick; her  head and neck would jerk. At   first it was every once in a while, so Amy  could conceal it sometimes. Then it started getting more intense, causing  Amy   pain in the form of headaches and a permanently stiff neck, and it  became increasingly difficult to hide from anyone. When   her father  noticed the tics, he was angry. The worst was at mealtime. He would watch  her like a sniper and would explode   when there was even the slightest  movement of her head or neck. He would say &quot;you're head's going to  fall off if you don't   cut that out!&quot; Things got worse for Amy. Her  mind lurched and veered in ways she didn't understand; Amy felt that she    must touch wood at all times to ward off harm, and that chewing a wad of  stale gum would prevent a plane crash. She   would save meaningless scraps  of paper, and there were many other occurrences that made Amy feel that she  was crazy. <br />  I believe that anyone can understand Amy's feelings at  having a disease that was undiagnosed for years and what it makes   you  think of yourself and how it effects your whole life. I was so inspired by  the amazing account of Amy's difficult life, and   how she was able to make  it to where she is today.  <br />  A very courageous story.	2000-08-07
US	49709381	R27TSLSN6ZU1EN	0803487886	732966535	Nightmare in Morocco	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Good Read	Noa Parker has worked for Carlson-Rand Tours for the past five summers.  This year her boss, Wendell Carlson, wants her  to head his new tour which  ventures into the heart of Morocco. Noa wants no part of that tour because  of fear. When Noa  was 8-years old, she got separated from her father for  several hours, and she can still feel the terror that haunted her that day.    Wendell Carlson was supposed to meet Noa to get her answer but instead  sent the dashing young Taber Rand. When Noa  sees him, she knows that she  will not be able to turn the offer down. A telegram arrives for Noa before  the touring season  starts with bad news that her brother, Mike, has had a  heart attack, and she must go to him. Before she reaches New York,  Mike  dies, and she is to be sole heir to Mike's estate and along with that comes  her adopted 17-year old niece who is major  trouble. <br /> The tour from day  one is a catastrophe. Trouble starts when members of the tour group are  robbed. Noa and Belda Ward are  all most crushed when a dark-hooded man  dislodges a rock, and it all most falls on them. It becomes apparent that  who ever  is responsible wants something more-Noa's life. Unable to trust  anyone, even Taber, Noa struggles alone to learn the  identity of the  hooded attacker as her once auspicious summer turns into a fear-inspiring  nightmare. <br />  Nightmare in Morocco is very well written with splendid  characters. My personal favorite is Belda Ward. I hope to be as  sassy as  she is when I reach her age. <br />  Loretta Jackson and Vickie Britton have  written a mystery/romance that really warms your heart while keeping you on  the  edge of your seat. Best of all, I could recommend it to my 15-year old  niece to read. Good work, Loretta and Vickie. 4 Stars	2000-08-07
US	49709381	R1LS1TTN0HM1OX	1580621376	815115337	Surviving Infidelity (2nd)	Books	5	120	139	N	N	the best that there is out there	This book will help you over the rough spots of Infidelity. The authors let you know you are not alone and we all go through   the same stages of Infidelity.  <br />  Not all affairs are the same, but they are just as  hurtful, nor do they all call for the same response, which does not make    cheating right in any way. Surviving Infidelity will help you to understand  what goes on in a cheaters mind. Here you will find   answers to the many  questions you have. I believe the hardest part to get over is the betrayal.  Every one handles infidelity   differently. Remember: we must never take it  on ourselves, the cheater is wrong.  <br />       Here is a list of subjects  the authors explain to us:         Why affairs happen         Discovery and  its impact         Coping and healing         Dealing with the martial  crisis         Repairing the relationship, if that is what you want          The post affair marriage         Increasing your self-esteem         What  it takes to be a survivor <br />  I noticed this book in a bookstore as I was  searching for a book to improve on myself. Something told me to buy it  because   at the time it fit my life, boy was I glad I did. I realized that  I did not need the fixing because I was the injured party. It is   really  strange but those of us cheated on seem to take the blame for something  that is out of our control. Remember where   the blame lies -- we are the  hurt and damaged ones. Read the book it will really help you pick up the  pieces of your life. It   did me.  <br />  This one earned High Marks from  this reviewer.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1RDEFQULZ6BSV	038072541X	148832051	Hit Man (Keller)	Books	4	1	3	N	N	Great	HIT MAN        Lawrence Block        Avon  Feb. 1999        ISBN: 038072541X       Buy It Here            A humorous mystery about a hired killer who is going through a mid-life crisis. This is a hard-boiled,  page-turning mystery.  Lawrence Block has written a series of Keller  novels. Read them all you will be glad you did.              Kellerman,  known as Keller, is a just normal guy who lives in a nice apartment until  his phone rings... then he becomes a hit  man, only now he wonders why he  does what he does. Story by story Keller grows on us, but you have to  remember he is a  cold-blooded killer who likes movies where you can tell  the good guys from the bad guys, but in this book you can't always tell   which is which.                 Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1JESYINRAZUNL	037326349X	74025123	Framework For Death	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Excellent	1998 Anthony Nomination! This mystery is even better than the first one in this series. Ms. Schumacher has really out done   herself on this one.      <br />  El Paso Detective David Alvarez, who we met in ENGINEERED FOR MURDER,  is working on a murder case in which   a second floor room falls on 2  people, killing them. Detective Alvarez calls in Tory Travers, whom we also  met in the 1st   book, to help him figure out what caused the collapse.  Before you know it, they are up to their necks in trouble, with a   killer,  who needs answers and is willing to do anything to get them. This is one  killer who will stop at nothing to get his   questions answered, even if it  means killing Ms. Travers infant son and the son of Alvarez's partner, as  he has threatened to   do. The ending is Superb.      <br />  I was so into  this book, I couldn't put it down. I wanted to hurry and get all the  answers myself! Thank you Ms.   Schumacher for an excellent read.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1KPPJL8JDB9VE	0451190092	255498736	Capitol Scandal	Books	4	1	1	N	N	very good read	Capitol Scandal is the 4th legal thriller featuring Texas Lawyer Russell Black and single mother Sharon Hays. This time    they are asked to defend a Texas Congressman named Will John Benedict, who is accused of murdering  an office intern    whom he was having an affair.  <br />   Capitol Scandal  was a very good read. I read it in one evening. I like the character of  Sharon Hays because she is a    complex woman with secrets and problems of  her own, just as all women do.  A lot of plot twists, plenty of courtroom     atmosphere, can hardly wait for the next book on Russell Black and Sharon  Hays.  <br />   A very well written mystery.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1LTMFKMF5L0GY	0446609102	319354602	Live Now, Age Later: Proven Ways to Slow Down the Clock	Books	5	13	13	N	N	a must read	Dr. Rosenfeld writes a book that we all should have in our library. Dr. Rosenfeld tackles a lot of the problems that most of   us encounter in our lifetime and tells us how we could delay or even prevent them all together.  There are some problems we   are afraid to speak to our doctors about, Dr.  Rosenfeld answers those questions as well.  <br />  This is a book I plan on  having and using in my every day life. A must read.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1Y4JWNKPWSRDS	0595094368	805893353	Listen to the Shadows	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Outstanding	Listen to the Shadows Joan Hall Hovey Zebra Books          1991 ISBn 08173606X      P.B. Mystery/Thriller<br />Katie Summers jumps into her car to go home after waiting several hours for her date that never shows up.  Katie's eyes are drawn to her rearview mirror, her eyes are stuck there as  she looks at a sightless glaring set of eyes looking at her, a scream  bubbles up in her throat, she loses control of her car and hits a  wall,everything goes black. This is just the beginning of a mystery that  will leave you breathless. Katie is being stalked and she has no idea who  it might be or who would want to hurt her. &gt;From the moment that I  started reading this book I was hooked. The author has a way of pulling you  into this thriller very early on and keeping you there until the very end  of the book. Along with an excellent mystery you get a very tender love  story between Katie and Dr. Jonathan Shea. Ms. Hovey keeps you wondering  just who the stalker is up until the very end. This is a book that will  stick with me for a long while, as I was reading it my heart would beat  fast and the hair on the back of my neck stood straight, and to me that is  the true sign of a good thriller. When you read this one make sure that the  lights are on and that all your doors are locked.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RSQP652U46CF6	1586080172	807573148	The Devil's Gate	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Good Read	The Devil's Gate Vickie Britton New Concepts Publishing - Feb. 2000 ISBN 1586080172 Diskette<br />Anna has been away at the University of Reno when she gets the call that the man who raised her is dying so she returns to The Devils Gate ranch. Not long after she arrives Tavas dies leaving Anna the  ranch and all of its problems. Mysterious cattle mutilations cause rumors  of witchcraft. Then Ivan's wife is found dead at the bottom of the canyon,  and it looks like the work of The Cult of Akkera.<br />There are many  characters involved, but I had no problem following along, the plot is  excellent and keeps you guessing until the end; A very well written  mystery.<br />The author, Vickie Britton, often co-authors with her sister  Loretta Jackson; On her own, Vickie likes to explore the darker side of  romance, and she has written three romantic suspense stories as well as  penning the occasional vampire tale.<br />Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3I0J4K9D434HH	0375502300	545930572	From the Black Hills: A Novel	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Sad read	&gt;From the Black Hills Judy Troy Random House           1999 ISBN 0375502300        P.B. Fiction<br />It is the summer after high school graduation and Mike Newlin is an average 18 year old, except his father has  killed his secretary whom he was having an affair, now he has left to parts  unknown. This was a very depressing book to read, I found it hard to stick  with. The story line flowed well enough so well that you felt every hurt  and pain that Mike goes through at his young age. It is very hard for Mike  to go on after his father is gone, he must look out for his mother who  thinks that her life is nothing without her husband,his girlfriend who is  clinging all the time, and the fact that he is in love with his bosses  wife. As you read this book keep the kleenex box handy because you will  need them. Judy Troy is the author of two New York Times Notable books and  a Whiting Award Winner.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R21TJ8QJ4J1Z6V	0966986105	577329733	Prescription for Terror	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Riveting	There's only two ways a reader can read this one and it not affect his or her mind or life, either with the lights on or during    the daytime. It's that intense and riveting.               There is a danger along the San  Diego coast, where a slasher, rapist is targeting young lonely single  women.  After one of    Dr. Cory Cohen's patients is killed, Cory decides  to get involved, but the police do not want her help, needless to say that     does not stop Cory. She bands together a group of psychologists in hopes  of finding out how many of their patients are    receiving calls from the  rapist, they also attempt to come up with a pattern. Cory decides to go  even further by putting    herself in harms way to get this maniac. I call  him a maniac because the rapist they are dealing with is a brutal,  unemotional    psychopath like no other I have ever read.              The  author does an excellent job of literally putting the reader into the mind  of the killer. I promise as you read    Prescription for Terror, you too  will wonder with a feeling of fear could there really be such an evil  creature as this running    around our streets. This psychological thriller  is one of the best that I have read.              It was fast paced -- a  real page-turner. I can hardly wait for the sequel.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3MCEF0O1UPZ0M	0679448616	555419228	The Sun King	Books	3	9	11	N	N	a disturbing tale	A tale of a tycoon who comes to town to challenge the powers that be and ends up facing his own challenge with the woman  he loves.       <br /> Sandy Galvin is the Sun King, a billionaire with a talent for taking risks.  Galvin arrives in Washington and proceeds to turn the  Capital up side  down. He buys the city's most powerful newspaper and wields it like a  knife. In his way stands his old  Harvard flame, Candice Ridgeway a  beautiful and icy journalist known around town as the Mistress of Fact.  Their encounter  is tangled in the mysteries of their past and narrated by  David Cantor, who is an acid-tongued reporter, a big Jerry Springer  fan,  and is drawn into Galvin's life to be transformed by this unpredictable  man. Love is the final frontier for a generation of  baby boomers, still  young enough to reach for their dreams, but old enough to see the prospect  of loss. Galvin can light up a  room but can he melt the heart or Candice  Ridgeway.       <br /> This is a disturbing tale of ambition and sexual  desire. I consider it of mature theme.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RE4X3C14O47EY	1568952104	31576209	Suitable for Framing	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Heart Stopping Drama	Trish Tierney comes to Miami to be a star police reporter just like Britt Montero. She has to take a job in the library at the  paper at first, and then she meets Britt and becomes very helpful to her. Britt takes notice of  Trish and promises to help her  become a reporter. After a few weeks Trish  catches a break and becomes a general assignment reporter, not exactly what   Trish wanted but at least it is a reporter job. Very soon things start to  go haywire at the paper. It becomes as dangerous there  as on the streets.  Britt begins to wonder if Trish's stories are what they seem to be. Stories  such as: a desperate woman on a  ledge and missing infants. Are the victims  being manipulated in some way? Britt decides to check things out on her own  and  that's when everything begins to come apart. She is accused of a  murder and realizes that she could lose everything she has  worked for.  Britt knows she has to find the real murder on her own.              Crime  reporter Edna Buchanan is a masterful writer and never forgets that her  reporter-heroine is her biggest story. This is a  book to read if you like  heart-stopping drama. Edna Buchanan has done it again.              Pam  Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RXFFXF287E9O7	1885173474	608166028	Charlie's Bones: A Mystery	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Good Read	CHARLIE'S BONES    L.L. Thrasher       Write Way  1998       ISBN: 1885173474     Buy It Here          My first impression was, this is a very well written mystery with touches of comedy. I could not stop reading it.      <br /> Charlie's Bones is about Lizbet Lange, who inherits a mansion from  her ex-husband. Lizbet decides to put in a pool and that's  where Charlie  comes in. About the same time his bones are unearthed, his ghost appears to  Lizbet and asks for help in solving  his murder and clearing his name. Of  course Lizbet agrees to help. There are a lot of surprising twists and  turns in their search,  with a very surprising end.     <br /> L.L. Thrasher  made me feel as if I was there, in the story, with her descriptions of  places and things from the 60's. From the  very first page I was hooked. I  would recommend it to anyone who enjoys a lighthearted mystery.     <br /> Pam  Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R35XFVY6EMT7JU	0767901266	528046712	A Hope in the Unseen: An American Odyssey from the Inner City to the Ivy League	Books	5	0	0	N	N	very informative	A book of a young man to better himself and the struggles he must face to get to the Ivy League.  <br />  It begins with a 16 year old named Cedric Jennings, and how he wants more for himself, than a life in the Ghetto and  a low   paying job. He realizes early in life the importance of a good  education. This book takes you through the things he must face   to better  himself. A lot of bad mixed with good.   <br />  A very inspirational story  that should be read by others as an example of what anyone can do with  their life if they try real   hard and not give up.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2U09RFDN992O	0553580191	294009896	Seize the Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Edge of your Seat	Christopher Snow, the protagonist from the best seller &quot;Fear Nothing&quot;, has returned and on the trail of missing children.   Snow believes that the children are still alive. It will be up to Snow to locate  them because the police in Moonlight Bay   work their hardest to conceal  crimes and silence victims.  <br />  This story has you on the edge of your  seat the whole way through the book. I felt comfortable with the  characters. The   pace of the book, the scary happenings, the action, and  adventure added to the thrill. I can hardly wait for the 3rd   installment.   <br />  Dean Koontz is the author of seven #1 New York bestsellers, including  &quot;Sole Survivor&quot; and &quot;Intensity&quot;.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R32ROEMXHVPDS2	0786883561	517056475	Pour Your Heart Into It: How Starbucks Built a Company One Cup at a Time	Books	4	11	11	N	N	great	An interesting story on how a man came out of the projects and became a CEO of a company and took it to the top where   it is today.  <br />  Howard Schultz saw promise in Star Bucks and wanted to expand nation wide, when he  realized early on, they could make   the artistry of espresso like the  Italians did, as well as offering fresh roasted coffee beans. Over the next  10 years Howard,   with a team of smart and experienced managers,  reinvented Starbucks from a local business of 6 stores and 100 employees    to a company with businesses of 1300 stores and     25,000 employees.  Howard proved that a company could lead with its heart and soul and still  make money. It also shows   that a company can provide long-term value for  its share holders and still treat their employees with respect and dignity,    because they had a team of leaders who believed it was right and that it  was and is, the way to do business.  <br />  I found this book very  interesting because it showed for once that a company could get ahead  without chopping people   down in the process, and that any one can follow  in Howard's footsteps and really focus on the long-term effect. A must    read for the businessperson who wants to get ahead.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2NE5GJOR8SSA3	0679454314	68855380	California Fire and Life	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Wonderful	California Fire and Life Don Winslow Knopf             1999 ISBN   0676549705        H.C. Mystery<br />I had never heard of Don Winslow before I was sent this book to review, now he is a favorite.<br />Jack  Wade an arson  adjuster for California Fire and Life Mutual, understands fires, its the  people that he doesn't understand.   Wade is a very engaging character, who  really knows what he is doing. Jack must investigate a fire that he knows  is arson, but others believe is accidental, his own company starts to  pressure him to settle the case, but he cant and he breaks his own cardinal  rule, &quot;You don't get emotional and what ever you do don't get  involved.    As Jack gets further and further involved the situation  becomes more dangerous.  Soon arson is the least of  Jacks worry, as the  case grows to involve the Russian mob and Vietnamese gangs and much more.     This book is a wild ride through the world of fire and insurance. The  characters are cool and real life. I especially liked the details of the  fire investagationing.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1U70BFQPKZX53	0767902025	856306137	Tomcat in Love	Books	3	0	1	N	N	ok read	I found TOMCAT IN LOVE to be a mature, vivid, slightly humorous, unforgettable tale of lust, compulsion and  disillusionment.             Thomas H. Chippering is a professor of Linguistics, who describes himself  as something over 49 years of age with the height  and features of our 16th  president. He has been very depressed about the break-up of his 20 year  marriage to Lorna Sue, the  woman that he has loved since he was 7 years  old. He wants her back, but two things stand in his way, Lorna Sue's new   husband and her brother Herbie. Of course, Thomas refuses to admit that his  fondness for women, especially his younger  students at the University of  Minnesota, could make him at least partly responsible for the break-up of  his marriage.  Now he  wants revenge, but before heading to Tampa where  Lorna Sue is he heads for his hometown Owago, Minnesota to visit his  boy  hood home. While there a woman comes into his life, Mrs. Robert Kooshof who  has experienced the same rejection  Thomas has, so they deiced to help each  other get revenge on Lorna Sue. From Minnesota to Tampa and back Thomas   hatches evil plots for Lorna Sue. He flirts shamelessly with every woman he  meets along the way. And after bouts of drunken  rages and self-pitting  moods he realizes what is really important to him and what makes life truly  worth living.     <br /> Go along with Thomas on his quest for happiness. Be  prepared for a surprise ending.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3JR9Z5WC9CB3E	0803487487	130295295	Path of the Jaguar	Books	3	1	5	N	N	A Good Read	Path of the Jaguar &gt; Vickie Britton&amp; Loretta Jackson &gt; New Concepts Publishing 1999 &gt; ISBN 158608013X &gt; Mystery/Romance &gt; &gt; Delores Camille and Lennea Andrews are assistants to Dr. Wesley Herns,  &gt; and they are on their way to Mexico to work at an excavation site. At  &gt; the Mexico City airport, Delores disappears. Lennea is frantic. Joseph  &gt; Darrigo comes to her aid.He gets the luggage and helps her get through  customs. Then Joseph takes her on to Merida where she is to meet up with  Dr. Herns. &gt; &gt; Delores has left behind her suitcase. Lennea decides  to look in it for an address book so she can call friends and hopefully  locate Delores. At the very bottom of the suitcase Lennea feels a bulge,  when she runs her finger along it she feels a clasp and &gt; &gt;  it open  up revealing six thick rows of American dollars totaling sixty-thousand  dollars. Now Lennea really starts to worry about what Delores was mixed up  in. &gt; &gt; This is one of those books that grab you from the very first  sentence &gt; and keeps you guessing who the good guys really are right to  the very end of the book. The ending is a nice surprise. &gt; &gt; The  authors go into great detail about the Mayan's and their culture. &gt; The  beautiful descriptions of the scenery made me want to book a trip &gt;  there myself. &gt; &gt; Loretta Jackson and Vickey Britton are a  sister/co-authoring team. &gt; These best selling authors have produced a  mystery series and over ten &gt; single title mystery/romances. Their work  has been produced in paper- back, hardback, audio, and electronic format.  &gt; &gt;	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R31JB9A25XLH	0393046567	449226103	My Year Off: Recovering Life After a Stroke	Books	5	10	10	N	N	brutally honest	This book will help stoke victims, no matter the age, and their loved ones get the real facts, there is no watering down here.   My Year Off tells us that stroke victims can make a come back, but it is mighty hard, like I  said, no watering down here. As   the readers learn of Robert McCrumb's  story they will feel as if they are traveling the same journey and  experiencing the   same emotions as he.           When Robert McCrumb awoke  the morning of July 29 in 1995 he was unable to move. At the age of 42 he  had a severe   stroke. As Robert thrashed around in bed unable to sit  upright, he wished Sarah; his wife of just 2 months was with him.  He    didn't experienced anxiety about his condition, just irritation and  puzzlement. When a stroke occurs the brain suffers a   hemorrhage infarct;  the body experiences a colossal disturbance of its innate sensory  equilibrium. Robert changed over night   from a walking, talking person  into an incontinent carcass, unable to make any sense out of his body. He  kept passing out   and wetting all over himself.   <br />  As he recuperated  his mornings consented of Sarah showing up at eight in the morning with a  tiny cup with a laxative type   drink and fresh clothes.  She also brought  him the days post and the British newspapers, her addiction not his. Then  he   would be wheeled off by the nurses to have a bath, that was a  laborious and exhausting process during which he tried to   forget that the  nurses were literally manhandling him moving him in and out of a wheel  chair specially designed for use in the   bath room.  <br />  Woven through  the book are excerpts of Robert and Sarah's diaries, the reader is given a  glimpse into their raw feelings and   emotions as they go through this  tragedy.  The reader will hear the self-doubt the patient goes through as  to whether they will   survive or what will become of them, and the  depression that they go through.   <br />  There are so many ranges of  feelings in this one, it rates high on emotions. I found the book open and  honest concerning   strokes and their victims. It's the kind of book we  need on the market to keep us informed. This is an excellent book, one    worth reading whether there is a stroke victim in your family or not.  It's  worth being informed, you will not be sorry.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R36GBM2BRP6P6A	0375705198	314955975	Amy and Isabelle: A novel	Books	3	2	14	N	N	Not that Good	Amy and Isabelle Elizabeth Strout Random House              1999 ISBN    0375501347        H.C.<br />A mother daughter story that was once good but now is troubled. This is real life stuff.<br />IT has been a really hot summer in  the town Shirley Falls in New England. THe citizens of the town are  bothered by the crops were not right and the pole beans are small and  shriveled on the vine and the carrots were no bigger than a child's finger.  Amy Goodrow and her mom Isabelle have even bigger problems, Amy has fallen  in love with her high school math teacher Mr. Robertson and the teacher has  encouraged the relationship. THE author makes you feel the summer heat as  if you were there but most of all you feel as if you are a helpless family  member who can not speak up or mother or daughter will be angry so you hold  back. When Isabelle finds out she is so horrified to realize that her anger  against Mr. Robertson is not as bad as the rage she feels for her daughter  I felt that the mother daughter relationship could not of been that good if  Isabelle had harder feeling for her daughter than she did for this adult  teacher, he should of been dealt with very harshly. I could never take the  stance that Isabelle took with Amy.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RWF6T8QG0K9K5	0786862823	996514530	The Honey Thief	Books	4	6	6	N	N	worth reading	The Honey Thief is a contemporary novel about a woman who must face her past before she can help her daughter.        <br /> Eleven year old Eva is picked up for shop lifting, Eva's 4th offence, the judge warns her that  next time she will go to a  detention center. Miriam, Eva's mother is at  her wits end. Miriam decides it would be better if they moved out of  Manhattan to  up state New York. They decided together where they would  move. They picked a small town where both mother and  daughter could get a  fresh start. Life is simple and slow, a little to slow for Eva's taste. Eva  fights her desire to shop lift most of  the time, the urge is so strong.  Miriam decides to buy Eva a used bike so she can explore the town and meet  new friends. All  through this Miriam has a secret of her own that she will  not, cannot tell any one not even her own daughter. Than Eva meets a  nice  older man named Burl who helps Eva get grounded. They experience  mother-daughter relationship that goes through  troubling times and Burl  helps them through it.       <br /> It's interesting to watch how two people  who are physically put together can be so emotionally far apart. It's real  life, and like  real life sometimes it takes a stranger to bring them  together. The path they take makes for an interesting read, it may seems   slow at times, but stick with it, it's worth it.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R10I2Q7IPJGTYN	1885173431	335060312	Engineered for Murder: A Mystery (Tory Travers/David Alvarez Mysteries (Paperback))	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good Read	A mystery that was written very well and a must for the technically-oriented reader.               When Tory Travers is assigned to over see the building of a new football stadium for the local university,  strange things   begin to happen. The son-in-law of the pre-cast yard  disappears along with all the records of the column pourer. After that   a  quality control technician is found dead. It just happens to be a budding  investigative reporter who had just interviewed   Tory.                Detective David Alvarez comes into Tory's life to investigate what's  happening. He quietly starts to look into Tory's   background. He uncovers  a mysterious past involving a state Senator, a police record and a love  affair. Tory soon receives   death-threats to stay away from her job.  Suspense builds at the construction site where death awaits.                 Be prepared for a very surprising ending. I thought this book was a good  read and would recommend it to anyone.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1BFJXT8L1M1VH	0816039356	957738611	Food Alert!: The Ultimate Sourcebook for Food Safety	Books	5	5	6	N	N	excellent	Food Alert is a must for every kitchen. And should be placed right next to our cookbooks to remind us of the dangers of   infected food.  <br />  During the last days in 1992, at the height of the Christmas season, several  people on the west coast began to succumb to a   lethal food-borne  infection. Most of the unfortunate victims were children who had eaten  hamburgers at a Jack in the Box   restaurant. Toddlers who came in contact  with the children who had eaten the burgers were also infected. It infected  over   700 people in Washington, Idaho, California, Nevada. The really  heartbreaking part of this whole mess was that several of   the youngest  victims died an unusually cruel and agonizing death, and a lot of those  that lived have had to have repeated   intestinal surgery and extended  kidney dialysis, many will be infected for the rest of their lives. Food  borne illnesses can   happen at home also, and can be just as fatal and  that is why this book is so important to have in our kitchens. More than    600 food borne diseases are known about today. Food alert provides  everything that we need to know to protect our   families  <br />       1)   Learn about the 20 most causes of food contamination in your kitchen.           2)  What steps you can take to lower the risk of food borne illness.           3)  The causes of food borne disease.          4)  How to avoid  buying, handling, or eating contaminated food.          5)  How to tell if  you might be suffering from a food borne illness.  <br />  A very informative  book that will open our eyes about what we are preparing and feeding our  families and ourselves.   This   is an excellent book to have in our  kitchens. Get informed now.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	ROZZY2MJ7IH98	0812931696	354294700	How to Be a Star at Work: 9 Breakthrough Strategies You Need to Succeed	Books	4	20	21	N	N	very good	Robert E. Kelly, spent ten years researching the personal and professional characteristics of star performers.  <br />  If you want to do more than just succeed at work, this is the book for you! It's full of vitally information  on how to reach   beyond your skills at work. About ten to fifteen percent  of all people will out perform their peers by a wide margin and rise    above to the star ranks. How to be a Star at Work tells us how to be our  own star and to be able to outshine everyone else,   no matter who you are.  This book has nine strategies to getting ahead, but don't think you can  muddle through with a few   pointers; you need to read the entire book to  be able to realize how everything works and fits together. It's worth the  time   and effort! Remember stars are made not born.  <br />  I found this to  be a helpful, informative, simplistic read. It's very well written and the  fact that the author spent so much time   'in the trenches' is apparent, he  knows what he is talking about. I recommend it.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RFQDEMHXIGI8O	0385477937	679739283	A Likely Story: One Summer with Lillian Hellman	Books	4	12	14	N	N	very good read	A Likely Story, is about a seventeen year old girl, who's hopes and dreams are to spend a summer of fun &amp; friendship with   Lillian Hellman, in hopes that greatness would rub off on her.  <br />  Rosemary was 17 when she  wrote to Lillian Hellman, asking for a part-time summer job. To her  surprise, Lillian hired her as   a part-time live-in housekeeper, which  became more than part-time. When Rosemary applied for the job, employment  was   the farthest thing from her mind. Rosemary was really only thinking  of herself. What she really planned was to read, write,   and becoming  great friends with Lillian Hellman. But, Lillian had other ideas for  Rosemary. And what Rosemary got was   something else indeed.   <br />  This  book is about the innocence's of a 17 year-old girl, her touch with reality  and her painful coming of age. At times it's   heart breaking to read,  other times it is uproariously funny. Rosemary Mahoney makes you feel as if  you are her, in her   shoes, living her experiences, and feeling her  emotions.  <br />  It's a good read for those times when you don't want to  concentrate on a story line or try to solve a plot. Everything you   need  is right there for you. I hope you like it. I did.  <br />  Pam Stone    back  to the top	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RCE5O5VWWC1I	0446525774	194746957	Saving Faith	Books	3	7	9	N	N	O.K. Read	Saving Faith David Baldacci Warner Books 1999 ISBN #0446525774 H.C. Thriller<br />   A political thriller with nonstop action, and an astounding look into the inner sanctums of our government.<br />    The villain Robert  Thornhill, a deputy director of The Central Intelligence Agency hates the  FBI because they have more money &amp; power than his CIA.     This  character is the ultimate bad guy, you get the impression that he has no  good in him at all.     In a wooded area of Northern Virginia a small house  at the end of a gravel road, with its security apparatus and hidden  miniaturized cameras it is being used by the the FBI to interview one of  the most important witnesses the agency has ever had. But a few people know  about the secret meeting, for them a violent drama is about to begin.     Faith Lockhart is the secret witness who must go on the run with Lee Adams,  a man that she does not know and does not trust yet.    Adams and Lockhart  are very likable characters, but I felt that the author didn't develop the  characters enough. I also thought that this book had to much foul language  compared to his other books.    Even with those 2 faults, this was a very  good read.  Don't pass it up.<br />   Davis Baldacci is also the author of  &quot;Absolute Power' which is very good. So if you like &quot;Saving  Faith&quot; get &quot;Absolute Power&quot;.    No wonder that David  Baldacci is always  on the New York Times Best Seller list.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RNEXE70KIJ7LO	0671525743	42968960	Night Whispers (The Paradise series)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	unresolved	In this gripping tale of murder and betrayal, a policewoman, Sloan Reynolds, has never met her father and sister, Paris,    until she hears that her father and his associates are suspected of fraud, conspiracy, and  murder. Sloan agrees to enter into    her father's life while hiding the  fact that she is a cop to try and get the goods on her father. Sloan must  maneuver through a    maze of deceit and passion to try and find someone  who she can trust.  <br />   Night Whispers has too many characters, and a lot  of the storyline is left open. The biggest disappointment was to pull us     into a relationship between Sara and Jess and leave it undeveloped. Noah's  history needed more exploration than it got.  <br />   Judith McNaught has had  eight New York Times Bestsellers and more than Twenty million books in  print.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1UJ00HL0XR4M8	0553578243	380182719	A Darker Place	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Very Engrossing	Laurie R. King brings us a terrifying &amp; interesting tale of good versus evil.       <br />  Ann Waverly is a Duncan Point University Professor &amp; an occasional undercover FBI assistant. Ann first worked with the    FBI when her 7 year old daughter Abbie &amp; her 31 year old husband Aaron  was part of a mass suicide in Northern TX,   with a group called Ezekiel's  Farm. Ann was also part of the cult, at one time, but, was going threw some  changes in her life   so she decided to go away and think about her life.  When she finally returned Ann found her husband and child dead. That   is  how she met Glen McCarthy. Now Glen has called upon Ann to help out the FBI  again. The group, Ann was to enter   into undercover was an Arizona Branch  called, Change. Within a month of it's founding, the group started a school  for   troubled youth. No official complaints were made, but some social  workers had noticed that on their visits the older   children were subdued.  Steven Chance, one of the founders of the group had a background in  chemistry, so the FBI   thought that a small religious group led by a man  who could construct a bomb needed to be under observation. Ann   becomes a  member of the group to find out what they are really about.       <br />  We  go through the good and bad with Ann to the final ending that will leave  you breathless. A very engrossing novel that   will keep you spellbound all  the way to the last word in the book. I consider it a good read.      <br />   Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RY6UKUDO6TYD3	0805059555	181097130	"O" Is for Outlaw	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Good Read	O is for Outlaw Sue Grafton Henry Holt and Co.            1999 ISBN  0805059555             H.C. Mystery/Slueth<br />This is the 15th installment of Kinsey Millhone, and this is the most personal case of all.<br />Kinsey is  contacted by Teddy Rich a storage locker scavenger who's come up with a box  of old documents about herself that he is willing to sell her for $30.00,  she talks him down to $20.00. In this book we find out all about Kinsey's  first marriage to Mickey Magruder a vice cop who lost everything when he  was accused of a murder 15 years ago. I had not had the pleasure of reading  all 15 novels by Sue Grafton but if they are all like this one they are  wonderful and I'll get the others to read, she has made a fan out of me.  This book held me in suspense from the very beginning to the very end,with  lots of left turns and plot twists to keep it fast paced and exciting.  Kinsey discovers that she may of been wrong about her ex-husband, so she  decides to look into the case herself even though it will put her in  danger. The events flowed through in a timely manner and the ending tied up  all the loose strings.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RUG72DNTX476N	0385334672	920654560	His Bright Light: The Story of Nick Traina	Books	5	9	11	N	N	keep kleenex handy	From the day that Nick was born, he was his mothers joy. Danielle Steel shares her powerful story of her son. Nick had an   illness called Bipolar, but for most of his life, neither he nor his mother knew what was wrong  with him; maybe that's the   reason why he is dead today. Nick's gift for  writing was as extraordinary as his mother's, and it showed in his  journals,   where he bared his soul with uncanny insight, in searing poetry  and song. In the end, life became too much for Nick, he   committed suicide  by taking an overdose of heroin.  <br />  This book was very hard for me to  read and review, because having had first a hand experience with the  conflicts of   Bipolar, I understood what Nick went through in his short  life. Keep the box of Kleenex handy when you read this book.  <br />  The Nick  Traina Foundation has been established to benefit mental health, music,  child related causes, and other charitable   organizations for assorted  causes.  All the author's proceeds and agents fees from this book will go  to the foundation, which   will receive direct proceeds from the publisher  for all copies sold.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3A073G2DY28S6	1580171478	651064827	Natural First Aid: Herbal Treatments for Ailments & Injuries/Emergency Preparedness/Wilderness Safety (Storey Medicinal Herb Guide)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	the best book	Natural First Aid will help you to care for others with the natural remedies you have on hand. The key is to stay calm, move   quickly, and know what to do.          If you need to arm yourself with information for  both emergency and non-emergency situations this is the book. After reading    it I have come to the conclusion that it is one of those indispensable  reference books everyone should have.  It's definitely a   book to have in  the First Aid kit when camping.  Brigitte Mars also tells us the most  important items to stock in a natural   first-aid kit for your car,  backpack, and yes ladies even in your handbag.  <br />  Do you know that  cayenne pepper can stop bleeding?     Or that garlic can alleviate a  toothache?     Or that honey can soothe a burn?  <br />  I was impressed with  NATURAL FIRST AID. It's easy to read and understand and there is nothing  extreme about the   natural remedies. I highly recommend it to everyone.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3SGDPYUB0WXY6	1582005230	27656081	Obsessions [3 1/2 Diskette]	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very Good	OBSESSION      --- Mystery/Romance Janet Lane Walters Hardshell Word Factory  - Dec. 1999 ISBN:  1582005230  - CD- Rom<br />Susan Randall finds the body of Barbara Denton, the hospital's gossip queen, in a storage room on  the orthopedic floor. Little does Susan know that she was the intended  target of a stalker. Patrick, a friend and tenant of Susan's, feels that  Susan may have seen evidence of some kind when she found the body so he is  very worried that she is in danger, but he does not want to smother Susan  or drive her away from him as her dead husband did.  After several more  deaths at the hospital, Patrick is sure that she is in danger. Can he save  her before it's too late without driving Susan away from him  forever.<br />Obsession was a fast paced book with plenty of twists and turns  to keep you on edge.<br />Janet Lane Walters has lead a dual life, both as a  registered nurse and the author of short stories, poems, and two  non-fiction books, one as a ghost writer and the other as a co-author.  Obsession is her eighth published novel, the seventh romance and one cozy  mystery.<br />Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1NWSHGGN6Y6MI	0373263554	311294530	Affirmative Reaction (A Tory Travers/David Alvarez Mystery)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Excellant	Affirmative Reaction is the third detective David Alvarez and Tory Travers mystery.      <br />  This time, it's Tory Travers turn to ask Detective Alvarez for help because someone wants her dead and seems at any cost.    Ms. Travers finds a woman's body in a storm drain of an abandoned  subdivision. The body turns out to be a city employee   who was known for  speaking out against affirmative action programs. The Hispanic contractor,  who built the now   abandoned subdivision, was thought to have committed  suicide, but could it have really been murder too? David and Tory   must go  back into the past in search of answers they need in the present.      <br />   These characters are growing on me. I love the under current of romance  between these two. They continue to work   together and try to hide their  feelings for each other. Be prepared to enjoy every minute of this book. I  found it to be an   Excellent Read.      <br />  Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1S0SFHJT4EGAV	0553576798	808501539	The Other Daughter	Books	4	0	0	N	N	A lights on thriller	Wanna feel the edge of your seat? Or be kept on your toes? This is the thriller for you! It is most certainly a book to read    with all the lights on.               Melanie has no memory of her life before she was  adopted, even though she was 9 years old at the time. Now someone    wants  to give her, her memory back, even if it includes the darkest nightmare the  Stokes family must ever face ... the    murder of their first daughter. As  Melanie pursues every lead to find her identity, two seemingly unrelated  events come    together putting her very life at stake. Melanie fears the  family that she loves the most maybe the people that she should    trust  the least.              Excellent from the start! Grips your attention.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RNCITL4QUWIQG	0316693286	373226516	Pop Goes the Weasel (Alex Cross)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Super	Pop goes the Weasel, James Patterson Little, Brown and Company ISBN  0316693286         H. C. Mystery/Suspense<br /> We first met Alex Cross in   Kiss the Girls, where a devilish duo went after women, Than there was Cat  and Mouse where a blood thirsty butcher was after his family, now there is  the weasel, who is a chilling villain that no reader will forget, I know  that I won't for a long while. Alex and his partner John Sampson want to  search for the Jane Doe killer, but their tyrannical boss George Pitman  orders them to investigate a high- profile murder of a rich white man  instead. This book combines a love story of great tenderness and a plot of  relentless suspense and heart pounding pace. I found the court room scenes  to be rather boring, other than that the story is believable, and the  ending is so exciting that you will want the book to go on and on.<br />James  Patterson is a past winner of the prestigious Edgar's Award. Mr. Patterson  is a heck of a writer who makes you believe the characters are real.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R32OTZ7XJBAXPG	0374281947	375817200	Personal Injuries (Scott Turow)	Books	4	2	5	N	N	Super	Personal Injuries Scott Turow Farrar, Straus and Giroux Publishers,         1999 ISBN  0374281947         H.C. Mystery/Thriller<br />A gripping, suspenseful book about corruption,deciet and love.<br />Robbie Feaver is a  personal Injury lawyer with a very good reputation, that is until  U.S.Attonery Stan Sennett uncovers Feaver's dirty secret. Feaver has been  bribing judges in the Common Law Claims Division to win favorable  judgments.   Now Sennett wants to use Feaver to go undercover to get the  guy at the top. The character of Robbie Feaver is a likable con- artist  with a big heart. There are other characters in the book that are just as  well written as Feaver, like agent Evon Miller who becomes very close to  Feaver even though he is married to someone that he loves very much. Raimey  his wife has Lou Gehrigs disease  and is dying. You feel the attraction of  Robbie and Evon right through the pages of the book. There is also Justice  Brendan Tuohey, all of their lives become the mystery at the core of the  book, there are alot of surprises in this book.<br />Personal Injuries is a  legal thriller at it's best.But than again that's Mr. Turow's style. All of   Mr. Turow's books have been  International Best Sellers.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R8CIW8BSD302F	0965250245	786280170	Pretzel Logic: A Novel	Books	4	1	2	N	N	highly impressed	A heart pulling, emotional story of a woman who finds out that her marriage is not what it seems.       <br /> Emily Spencer met Michael Rogers at a time in her life when she was not interested or even looking for love,  but that doesn't  stop her from falling in love with him very early in  their relationship. And after a few months they married. Emily's dream was   to own a small town newspaper. Michael encouraged her dream with the  thought that they could work together. Emily would  run the paper and  Michael would handle sales, which is his field. They found the right town  and all seems perfect for them.  But, after 3 years things started  changing. Michael becomes depressed, gets angry for reasons he can't  explain, starts lying,  going out alone, and spending a lot of time on his  computer. While Michael is away, Emily decides to do the monthly bills.   What she finds in his computer shocks and sickens her. His only answer to  Emily at this find is to blame her. If what she found  is true...where does  their marriage go from here? Michael says he still loves her and they seek  counseling, but has too much  happened for their marriage to survive?         <br /> An emotional read. Once you are pulled into the book, you will  experience Emily's emotional and physical feelings. Your  thoughts will  intertwine with Emily's life so much so that you'll be wondering with her,  what and where do we go from  here....       <br /> I was highly impressed by  this book! Lisa Rogak's words pulled me in and kept me there.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3AD3BTAV6GDC2	0786864737	846440270	Cinnamon Gardens	Books	2	1	7	N	N	too long	A novel set in the upper class of the gracious, repressive and complex world of the 1920's.       <br /> Cinnamon Gardens is a suburb of Colombo and was built by the colonial masters for the purpose of gain. In these and  around  the gardens were exclusive homes; in two of these homes were  related family members. This book tells of two families and  their stories  are intertwined. There is the uncle Balendram, who must suppress his secret  desires and urges. And  Annalukshmiis, a young teacher and niece of  Balendram, whose family has arranged marriage to a man she does not love,   causing her to be torn between family honor and her own independent nature.        <br /> I found this to be a mature complex read of 400 pages.  Fascinating read of the 1920's.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2N7ONW9QITUNB	068815333X	240949428	Prayers for Rain	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Super Read	PRAYERS FOR RAIN             Dennis LeHane             Harper Torch - May 2000             ISBN:  0380730367              Buy a Copy <br />            Karen Nichols is a very pretty young lady who has a problem with a stalker,  so she turns to Boston P.I. Patrick    Kenzie to solve her problem. Kenzie  and his sociopathic sidekick and guardian angel, Bubba Ragowski, solve  Karen's problem    very quickly and he figures that he has heard the end of  Karen Nichols. But six months later he hears that she has jumped    naked  off the observation deck of Boston's Custom House and that she was drugged  up when she jumped. The fact that this    did not fit in with his  impression of Karen and that she had called him shortly before her death  and he never returned her call    made Kenzie feel compelled to look into  what went wrong in the last few months of her life. With the help of Bubba  and    Angie Gennaro, they uncover that Karen was into drugs, prostitution,  had some dreadful family secrets, and a madman that    knows how to  manipulate the minds and lives of his victims until suicide was a welcome  relief.  As the plot twists through    layers of old deceit and current  corruption, the victims multiply while the killer remains elusive,  protected by the terror he    inspires. <br />    Prayers For Rain is well  written with dialogue that is gritty and true to life. The scenes are so  vivid that the hair on the back    of your neck will stand straight on  end--a real page-turner from the beginning to the outstanding ending. This  book has graphic    violence and the darkest of dark humor. The villain in  this book is one of the slipperiest and most evil characters you will ever     read about. <br />      Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RMCYSLRG4Z75J	1893162060	924047741	Twilight Dynasty: Courting Evil	Books	2	1	2	N	N	over my head	TWILIGHT DYNASTY is an upfront, supernatural thriller that will hold you in your seat or scare you right out of it.            A coed named Amanda Stewart runs out of the Muskoka Woodlands of Canada chased by a creature.   Ben Parker who    happens to be a reporter rescues her. Amanda is the niece  of Kyle Morrow, a high-powered lawyer who is well    respected by his  peers.  Morrow feels that his life is missing something so he decides to  try past life regression. This is    where I began to lose interest, but  decided to read on and boy was I glad that I did. Ben Parker does a  newspaper article    on his rescue of Amanda ordeals; Morrow realizes that  the creature was an exact representation of the creature that    Ta-Lon,  Kyle's Atlantean incarnation, had succumbed to in his last regression  session.&quot;  Kyle must be very careful how he    handles the situation  or he will be defeated.  It will be a battle of good verses evil.  <br />    Barry H. Smith has written a captivating book of supernatural terror.  It  is filled with cults, magic, demons and heavenly    visitors.  It is very  well written and will most definitely hold the attention of those who  thrive on this genre.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1FYVX76QZFKO6	0385496109	277275627	A Certain Age	Books	3	1	1	N	N	emotional	A humorous, emotional and yet sad novel about a woman who feels she has reached that certain age and needs to find a rich  husband quick.<br /> Florence Collins is past 30 and decides that the time is NOW to get serious  about finding a rich husband. On her way to  finding a man, Florence does  some questioning things, even for her. The novel reads as both sad and  funny as we follow  Florence thru her trek to finding a rich husband.  Florence seems to make some bad choices along the way, such as a one night  stand with her best friends' husband, which she defends by saying she could  not help herself - she felt sorry for him. And of  course she loses her  best friend. Another time is when Florence meets a man named Rafaella at a  party, and tries cocaine with  him to loosen up. He turns out to be  married, with kids and his wife is in Venice having a baby while they are  partying. An  intimate experience with him finally nudges at her conscious  and causes her to flee.<br /> The author had the ability to draw out  some emotions in me when reading, the strongest being sadness. A wonderful  writing  job in showing what a woman is willing to go thru in order to  reach a goal, a goal she may never be happy with any way.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2A08NHH9926KL	0786885378	703728962	Summers with the Bears: Six Seasons in the North Woods	Books	3	4	4	N	N	short and sweet	Summer With The Bears is about a couple who decide to leave the city for an adventure in Minnesota to observe the bears.   At first Jack &amp; Patti started out just observing the bears for hours to learn their habits and  earn their confidence. And they   do earn their trust. There were many more  animals that they befriended. They kept a journal on everything that  happened   concerning the bears and other animals. They even named the  bears.  <br />  As a true animal lover, I really liked this book. The pictures  added to the book. If you are looking for a short and sweet read   this is  the book for you.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2XS9COLF14BBO	0525945423	226975853	Suspicion of Malice	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Pretty good Read	SUSPICION OF MALICE  (Suspense)             Barbara Parker             Dutton - May 2000             ISBN:  0525945423    <br />  Suspicion of Malice is the third installment of Gail Conner and Anthony Quintana--Suspicion of  Deceit was first and Suspicion    Betrayal was second. <br />   The barbaric  murder of Roger Cresswell took place in the shadows of an exclusive party  on the Miami waterfront. The    Victim is the heir to a yacht building  family, and the suspects abound within this family driven by jealousy,  greed, and malice.    Bobby Gonzales is accused of killing Cresswell, and  he is the secret lover of Angela Quintana. Angela goes to Gail Conner     (her fathers ex-lover) and asks her to help clear Bobby. Angela tells Gail  that Bobby has an airtight alibi that happens to be    represented by  Anthony Quintana.  The air crackles with electricity when Anthony and Gail  find themselves locked together    on opposite sides of a capital case, but  with an innocent mans life hanging in the balance, there is no room for  venomous    emotions and no margin for error, somehow they must work  together to save Bobby's life.  Could this case destroy whatever    is left  of their relationship completely or bring them closer than ever before?     <br />  Barbara Parker writes piercing dialogue and brings a great cast of  characters who are very interesting to life.  The plot moved    swiftly to  a gratifying end.  Best of all was the sparks between the two protagonists  that kept things animated throughout the    book. <br />  Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3SODN2FZUYE9H	0446676012	943775996	As It Is in Heaven	Books	3	2	6	N	N	sweet love story	A story for all of us romantics. As It Is In Heaven is about the love of a shy schoolteacher and a passionate violinist. It is  written in an Irish setting. Stephen Griffen a shy school teacher and lead a very lonely life  after his mother &amp; sister were killed  in a car accident. His father  took no interest in him or his brother's lives. Silence became a part of  their life from that point on.  From the moment Stephen met Gabrella  Castoldi he         could not keep his mind off of her. Stephen's father  does not approve of the union. In this story, Stephen's life is forever   changed, as well as everyone around him.       <br /> Such a wonderful sweet  story that is uplifting as well. A must buy for any one who loves a good  love story. I would  recommend it.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R27AZ6RJZ7CX3Y	1586080008	220549341	Friends Forever	Books	4	8	8	N	N	A Good Read	Friends Forever Maryann Miller New Concepts Publishing - 1999ISBN 1586080008 - Young Adult Novel<br />Friends Forever isabout a 13 year-old girl named Debbie Webly who is best friends with Laura---then Angie comes to town, Angie is beautiful, rich, and very popular, which makes Debbie feel like an outcast. Laura starts to include Angie in everything that she and Debbie used to do alone. Debbie gets very jealous as the friendship starts to go by the wayside. Laura just wants the three of them to be friends but Debbie will have none of it.<br />Ms. Miller captures the trails and tribulations of 13 year-olds very easily. She talks their lingo and keeps the book interesting with enough twists and surprises to keep younger readers turning the pages to the very end.<br />An award winning journalist and author, Maryann Miller's articles and short stories have appeared in regional and national publications for over 20 years. Her non-fiction book, Coping With Weapons and Violence In School And On your Streets, was chosen as one of the top books for teens by the New York Public Library. She has also written numerous screenplays and two other novels.<br />Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RFL4QM448IUO1	0767903250	791556114	Cancer Talk: Voices of Hope and Endurance from "The Group Room," the World's Largest Cancer Support Group	Books	5	2	2	N	N	most informative	This isn't just a book for people who have been touched by cancer, but, for their loved ones as well.  <br />  It will get you informed on every aspect of cancer. Help you deal with the emotions of your diagnosis, helps  you cope with   the physical and sexual issues. Help you to learn your  options in your treatment process, and in the legal work place issues   and  what your insurance will and will not cover; most of all, how important it  is to be in a cancer support group. This is a   very important book for  those who want to be well informed about this illness.  <br />  I've yet to  deal with this in my family, knock wood, I was sincerely impressed and  informed. Very well done.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3QKC836SLNMWN	0553110144	649003513	Empires of Sand	Books	3	3	3	N	N	historical fiction	The year is 1870; Paris is under siege by the Prussian army. Empires of Sand takes you thru what was a very good  relationship between two cousins who are the best of friends. They played together in the tunnels of Paris  as the war raged  above their heads on the streets. As Paul and Moussa get  older they become separated by tragic events in both of their lives.  They  will meet again on the battlefield of the Sahara -- Moussa as aTurleg, a  race of veiled warriors who live and die by the  sword and a harsh desert  code. And Paul as part of the Expeditionary Force. As you will learn, the  two were destined to  become the bitterest of enemies because of their  mother's backgrounds and feelings for each other.        <br /> A great read  for those who love historical fiction!   This is the first book by this  author. I know he will be around for a long  time to come.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R7SB8TPDD8LFO	1890768006	127336452	Deadly Gamble: The First Charlie Parker Mystery (Charlie Parker Mysteries)	Books	4	40	41	N	N	Very good read	For the first title in a series this one grabs your attention and holds it till book is read.     <br />  Charlie Parker is an accountant in a Private Investigations business with her brother. In this mystery an old friend  shows up   in need of help. Charlie agrees to help Stacy North find her  missing Rolex watch, but ends up wishing she hadn't because   of her past  history with this woman. Stacy and Charlie were best friends until Stacy  ran off with Charlie's finance. In a few   hours Charlie finds the watch  and boy is she relieved thinking she is done with Stacy, but guess again  the man who stole the   watch is found dead three days later. Now Stacy  needs Charlie's help even more. Charlie's brother handles the    investigation part of their business and she handles the paper work. But  with her brother out of town for two weeks Charlie   felt that she could at  least get things started for her brother. Gary Detwiller was the dead mans  name -- a con man with a   lot of enemies. Finding the murder will not be  easy. Stacy is arrested for the murder and Charlie has to prove her    innocence's, but finding the real murder will hard work because of all the  enemies that Gary had.        Look out for a surprise ending.     <br />  This  mystery was a very good read I can hardly wait to read the others in the  series.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R42DVCN02SDUK	1891020951	202753921	Diamond Rock & A Minor Opposition (Category Duets)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Super	A Minor Opposition  (Romance) Janet Lane Walters New Concepts Publishing - June 1999 ISBN: 189029951    - CD Rom<br />Laurel Richmond returns home from India with a raging fever and cough. Her best friend, Megan, was supposed  to meet her at the airport, but sent her brother, Dr. Alex Carter, whom  Laurel had a crush on when she was younger. Laurel faints and is taken to  the hospital where she is diagnosed with pneumonia.  She is ordered to stay  in the hospital, which she is dead set against.  She hated the hospital  because of her parents' deaths and her months of painful rehabilitation.   Alex convinces her to stay at least until her fever goes away.  When she is  released from the hospital, she goes to Alex's because he has a full time  housekeeper to look after Laurel.<br />Laurel is still in love with Alex, and  Alex has feelings towards Laurel, but he will not let those feeling  develop.  He distrusts rich women because of his first wife.  Will Alex  learn to trust Laurel?  Come along on their rocky road and see if they can  overcome their past scars and build a life together.<br />Janet Lane Walters  has written a very warm and charming love story with characters that you  feel connected to.  You sense their sorrows as if they are your own.  I  would love to see another installment of these characters.<br />Pam  Stone<br />==========	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1XHYDB5WD6SFW	0385325991	149840789	The Runaways	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Excellent	Runaways is a story of 3 unhappy kids, from 3 different families, who come together with plans to run  away from home, each for their own reason.     <br /> The story is set in April of 1951. Twelve-year-old Dani decides to run away. A nine-year-old boy named  Stormy, who always turns up to scare Dani  senseless, finds out about Dani's plan to runaway. He tells  Dani to let  him go or he will tell on him. Dani has no choice but to take him along.  Stormy, of course has  his own reasons for wanting to go along. Than a new  girl named Pixie moves to town and attaches  herself to Dani and Stormy.  Soon she figures out their plan and invites herself along. Dani and Stormy   are suspicious of Pixie because she is a very strange girl, and also the  biggest liar in town.      <br /> You will follow along on their adventures  and mishaps. And along the way see the lesson they all learn  from this  experience. Kids, you will understand the feelings these kids have and what  they go through. A  good book for Children ages 10 and up.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R178NN33WQL6AI	096747860X	237276217	Hot Enough to Kill (Jolene Jackson Mystery Series) (Jolene Jackson Mysteries)	Books	4	46	48	N	N	A light Read	In this mystery you will meet a mother/daughter sleuthing team. Forty-six year old Jolene Jackson is a strong female sleuth and  her seventy-two year old mother Lucille has a sharp eye and a sharper tongue, Jolene likes to  cut to the chase, but Lucille has  her own trick up her sleeve - or rather  her purse (she likes to hit people with it). This fast paced mystery romps  across my  favorite landscape of North Central Texas.                 When  the book starts out Jolene is getting into town (Kickapoo, TX) to get her  mother Lucille out of jail for supposedly killing  her boyfriend the mayor,  Big John Bennett. The Dairy Queen is the local hangout and where Lucille  was arrested. So when  she's let go Lucille returns to the DQ as if nothing  happened. Later when Sheriff Jerry Don (Jolene's high school sweetheart) is   at Lucille's home asking questions, Lucille gets up from the table where  they are seated to get a glass of tea, as she does a  bullet comes through  the window, goes through Lucille's arm and hits Jerry Don in the chest.   Who was the bullet meant for?  Lucille or Jerry Don? As Jolene and Officer  Leroy discuss the shooting outside Lucille's home someone throws a brick at  them,  with Leroy getting the worst of it. Jolene starts sleuthing to find  out who is trying to harm them and while all this is going on she  is  trying to figure out if and whether at all she fits into Jerry Don's life.               Hot Enough to Kill has some comedic characters you'll just  love.  The author writes with a humor you can't resist.  I can't  remember  the last time that I read a book as light and refreshing as this. You will  love the ending because you are not expecting  the surprise!                Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R32HZZ5KP1AKLU	0440224012	933000105	Heartwood (Billy Bob Holland)	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Brillant	Heartwood James Lee Burke Doubleday        1999 ISBN   0385488432       H.C. Mystery<br />This is the 2nd book centered around Billy Bob Holland. The 1st was Cimarron Rose in 1997.<br />   When Holland takes on the defense of  Wilbur Pickett, who has had allot of bad luck in his past, now finds  himself accused of stealing bearer bonds from the rich Dietrichs family.     Holland is going up against Dietrichs whom he does not care for because  Dietrich has made a fortune running over people and tainting anyone who  stands in his way.  Plus Holland can not forget the passion he fills for  Dietrichs wife Peggy Jean.    James Burke makes you see the town and  characters in your mind so clearly as he describes them.    The only issue  I had with this book is James Burke talks of rain on 25 pages of this book,  but I find that hard to believe because this book takes place in Texas Hill  country, and Texans know that it hardly ever rains in the Texas Hill  country.  Other than that this book is a winner.    Burke is a master at  setting mood, laying in atmosphere, fall with quirky raunchy language that  befits Texas.    I am looking forward to the next installment of Billy Bob  Holland.<br />   A brilliant novel of crime from the two-time Edgar Award  winner, Gold Dagger award winner and New York Times Bestseller author of  several books.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3AHJ3M3D3KLE1	0553579568	99818119	No Time to Die (Mali Anderson Mystery)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Not Bad	No Time to Die; A Mali Anderson Mystery Grace F. Edwards Doubleday         1999 ISBN   0385492472      H.C.<br />This is the 3rd installment in the Mali Anderson mystery series.<br />   Harlem Sleuth Mali Anderson is back and on a  case that is personal to her.    Mali is a brave person who knows her  neighborhood and easily connects with its residents whether she is in  beauty shop or a playground basketball court.  Expect an in your face  heroine.    Abizarre and brutal killer is on the loose in Harlem and he has  killed malis best friend, Claudine Hastings.    It becomes clear that the  killings are in Malis own neighborhood.  As the bodies continue to pile  higher, Mali fears for those close to her, not realizing that she is to be  the next victim.    This book has very colorful characters and it leaves  you wondering if Mali will ever catch this guy.    Ms Edward's style is  free flowing and very easy to follow.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R36MO57WCH394E	0375401881	532250528	God Is a Bullet	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Powerful thriller	Mr. Terans first novel is definitely one with emotional highs and lows! A gritty read! A real page-turner!              In 1970, a young boy finds a woman's brutally murdered body. 25 years later, Bob Hightower, a deputy  sheriff, is called    upon to investigate a similar savage murder. The  victims are his ex-wife and her husband. A group called \\"The Left    Handed  Path\\" kidnaps his daughter during this time. They are a satanic cult  dealing in drugs and more. God is a Bullet, is    about a father who goes  through a suspenseful cat and mouse chase to find his missing daughter.               If you like an excellent, powerful thriller, then you must read  this book! I for one will reread it again in the future.              I  have to warn the faint of heart this one is graphic.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1JHR48LFAVX5D	0345426800	469724742	A Perfect Crime	Books	3	1	2	N	N	very good	Roger Cullingwood discovers that his wife Francie is having an affair with Ned Demarco, so Roger decides that Francie    must die. Roger hatches a perfect murder or did he?  <br />   The quality of the writing grabs you on  the first page. Characters are drawn with accuracy and keen insight. The  plot is    beautifully developed. It is suspenseful but not in a  predictable way, you see what's coming, but trust me you are still     surprised and amazed. This book has several graphic love scenes.  <br />    Peter Abrahams is the author of eight previous novels, including &quot; The  Fan&quot; and &quot;Lights Out&quot;, which was nominated for an    Edgar  Award for best novel.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1DAE2VXKOVBZP	067100042X	851255898	Silent Night	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Masterful	A very special story about the power of love and a child's faith and courage.              Catherine Dorman's husband is very sick with leukemia and must go to New York for a life saving operation. Catherine    decides  to take her sons with her to lesson their fears about their father. On  Christmas Eve Catherine takes her sons to    see Rockefeller Center's  famous Christmas tree. As they are stopped to listen to street music Brian  the youngest son sees    a woman take his mother's wallet, which has a very  special gift. Brian, not able to get his mother's attention decides to     follow the woman and get his mother's wallet back. Brian is headed for a  journey that will threaten his life.              I have read all of Mary  Higgins Clark's titles. I feel she is a master at what she does. She is a  favorite of mine and always    will be.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3J24ZTUSMGESB	0553111531	306714600	Darkness Peering	Books	3	2	4	N	N	Good Read	A woman's obsession to finish what her father started 18 years ago.      <br />  Nalen Storrow was a Boston patrolman for 15 years before moving his wife and kids 5 years ago to the sleepy community   of Flowering Dogwood,  Maine population 1800. The story goes back and forth between Nalen and his  family life to the   investigation of a murdered 14-year girl with Down  syndrome. Nalen has problems relating to his family because of his own    tortured childhood at the hands of his brutal, drunkard father. He could  not face up to his past by seeing a shrink, as he   called them, who could  help him. Instead he took the easy way out and killed himself right in the  middle of an   investigation.      <br />  18 years later his daughter Rachel  is a detective with the same department he was. Rachel hears about the case  and wants   to open the file. The captain tells her to do it on her own  time. Rachel retraces her father's steps. During her investigation    another shocking crime happens, which brings the investigation to the  forefront of the entire department. Rachel's search   turns into a dark  obsessive search for the person who committed the crimes.      <br />  Alice  Blanchard is a multiple prizewinner for her short stories and was awarded  the Katherine Anne Porter Prize for   fiction.      <br />  A really good  novel to read         Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	RJYD0JIAM975Z	0967822106	924147487	Harm None: A Rowan Gant Investigation	Books	5	23	29	N	N	Super	Harm None: A Rowan Gant Investigations M.R. Sellars WillowTree Press ISBN 0967822106        June2000<br />This is the debut of M.R. Sellars &quot;Rowan Gant Investigations series.<br />Rowan Gant is contacted by a good friend Detective Ben Storm to answer questions about his religion, which is Wicca,  and to give his alibi for the time of the murder. Rowan explains to his  friend that even though he is a witch in &quot;The Craft&quot; their code  is to harm none, and they do not sacrifice animals or people. When Ben  shows Rowan pictures of the crime scene, Rowan realizes he knows the  victim. The victim, Ariel, was a student in the craft. Rowan and Ben set  out to solve the murder. While they are working the case, other murders  happen and they are even worse than the first. This book kept me in  suspense to the very end, the author's description of the murders was so  real I thought that I might be sick, and I loved it. That's what I look for  in a good thriller. Harm None was so good I can't wait for his next book  &quot;Never Burn A Witch&quot;;  I hope that the author will allow me to  review it also.<br />M.R.Sellars is the recipient of the &quot;Linda White  Literary Excellence&quot; and the &quot;Silver Quill Awards for short  stories upon which the &quot;Rowan Gant Investigations&quot; are based  on.<br />  Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R7087GRPF6GP6	0679450432	835692581	Dark Lady	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Fast-paced	I found this to be a fast paced book with true to life, believable characters and most certainly a provocative, suspenseful    stunner.            In Steeltown, a struggling midwestern city on the verge of an economic  turn around, two important men are found dead    within days of each other.   The author has created a woman as fascinating as her world is haunting.   Stella Marz is the    Assistant County Prosecutor. She is so driven by her  job; the defense attorneys call her \\"The Dark Lady\\" because of her     relentless, sometimes ruthless style. Stella has earned the title because  she has only lost one case in seven years.            Tommy Fielding is the  first death. He was a senior officer of the company that is building a new  baseball stadium, which is    the cities hope for a new future. Jack Novak,  a former love interest of Stella's is the second death. Feeling that  someone is    already following and watching her every move, Stella must  make her way through all the facts before it is too late.            I  really loved this book because it was fast paced. I loved the ending and I  am confident you will too.  Honestly I feel this    is a superbly crafted,  must-read thriller. Richard North Patterson has written 10 other novels and  he is one suspenseful    author that you should look up.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1QCQOZHHZ3KTA	1885173733	495508955	The Deadline: A Mystery	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Solid Hit	In August of 1948, a drunken fisherman named Pic Sandefur found the body of a 9-year-old girl in the Black Thunder River.   The little girl had been missing for ten days. Her name was Aimee. A mean drunk named Neely  Gilmartin was arrested and  convicted, but he did not do it.    <br /> In late  July of 1996, Neely Gilmartin is released because he has only weeks to  live.  Before he dies he wants to clear his name.  This is where the action  begins. Gilmartin goes to the newspaper office, \\"The Bullet,\\" to talk to  the new owner and editor Jeff  Morgan. Morgan doesn't know what he'll do to  help the dying man, he's not even sure he believes Gilmartin. Trey Kerrigan   who is an old school friend of Morgan's is also the sheriff. Morgan  consults with him. Kerrigan is positive that the killer was  caught 50  years ago and for Morgan to leave things alone. Morgan also gets threats  from the bank officers who gave him the  loan for the paper and the  advertisers of the paper to leave the case alone. Morgan must struggle with  himself and try to do the  right thing even no one wants him to.    <br /> Mr.  Franscell's second novel is a solid hit as far as I'm concerned.  I felt as  if I was actually there, watching it all come to life.   Having lived in  small towns, I could identify with what was happening as the story  progressed. I really enjoyed reading it and  being taken to the edge.  THE  DEADLINE is a well-plotted mystery, packed with twists, turns and a lot of  surprises.    <br /> Pam Stone	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R1TPYB3B5Q4GQ8	1580172105	192378619	50 Simple Ways to Pamper Yourself	Books	5	15	15	N	N	what a wonderful read	At times we all need a little pampering and relaxation.          One of the first things Stephanie Tourles book 50 SIMPLE WAYS TO PAMPER YOURSELF points out is the need to   realize our bodies can only take so much. Our  lives are so stress filled these days, we need to be able to release that  stress   or our bodies will go haywire. When we even think about taking  time for ourselves we feel guilty, well, Ms. Tourles tells us   to forget  the guilt and relax because it well help to make us calmer, better people  if we do.  <br />  Did you know that stress restricts blood flow to the skin  preventing moisture and nutrients from getting where they need to   go? Or  that stress promotes the production of the male hormone testosterone, which  stimulates oil production that in turn   promotes pimple formation and  clogged pores?  Stephanie Tourles tells us that lowering our stress level  will dramatically   improve the texture and condition of our skin.  <br />   Ms. Tourles doesn't just fill her feminine readers in on all the  information they need to know to help them understand why   they should  take the time to pamper themselves; she also gives us ways to do it.  <br />   Such as:      Use aromatherapy to relax and recharge in the bath.     Get  steamed with an herbal facial, which will leave your face clean and toned.      She offers a list of 10 top healing foods and ideas on how to nourish  your hair.  <br />  I chose this one to review because I needed it.  It's a  fascinating read full of wonderful ideas; I did not find anything that    sound ridiculous or extreme. Get the book for the wonderful ways to pamper  yourself. Throw away all the guilt and go for   it, you will be so glad you  did, and you will also have a more productive life.  <br />  Pam Stone   back  to the top	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2NYKA61BG54UM	0375503404	658864060	When All Hell Breaks Loose: A Novel	Books	4	9	9	N	N	wonderful read	Camika Spencer's debut novel is about black twenty something. It is fast and funny. The author will have you laughing and  looking in the mirror to see if she's talking about you (whether you're black or white).       <br />  On a Sunday morning Gregory Alston has asked Adrian Jenkins to marry him,  but when he does all hell breaks loose and he  gets more than he bargained  for. His mother returns from France, where she has been living since she  left the family 20 years  ago. His Holy Roller sister Shreese thinks that  Adrain is too worldly for Gregory. His dad has locked himself in the  bathroom  and refuses to come out after his dog dies. His son thinks he is  just plain crazy. And if that isn't enough he has Adrain who has  more  skeletons in her closet than a haunted house. What's a brother to do?        <br /> I get the impression that the author, who is black, wrote this book for  a black audience. But after reading it I feel it could be  about any  American family. I know all can enjoy it. What a wonderful read this was.  If you liked the movie SOUL FOOD you  will love this book.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R20ZOBIKOEKKIP	0446676039	588818728	Let's Get Lost: Adventures in the Great Wide Open	Books	4	2	6	N	N	great adventures	this book is a man's story of his wild adventures of travel. Craig Nelson is an adventurer who likes to live on the edge.  <br />  On his travels, he was threatened by orangutan in Borneo; taught dance steps to Stone-Age  Cannibals in New Guinea;   climbed a mountain to get a aerial view of  Mauchu Picchi; taken psychoactive drugs with Juvaro Shaman in the middle of  the   Amazon; gone hunting with the last of the African Bush man; had a run  in with the Peoples Liberation Army in Tiananmen   Square; has seen the  total eclipse of the sun from the roof of an eighteenth century Mughal  Fort; sailed the south pacific in a   nineteenth century brigantine;  stalked gorillas through the Nontane forests of Ugana; been to Egypt when  Arab terrorism was   going on; went to Peru with the Shinning Path  Gorillas, just to mention a few.  <br />  Craig Nelson loves the wild life and  loves to takes his readers with him. He has had so many more adventures and  if you   want to take that trip with him read the book!	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3QFIS6AV3JAUB	0671038656	104679660	Mrs. Million	Books	3	3	3	N	N	wacky	The first few pages drew me into this book very quickly. The cast of quirky characters makes this a funny story.  Barbarannette, (nicknamed Barbie) whose husband, Bobby Quinn, had run off 6 years ago. Now that  Barbie has won the  lottery and her winnings totaled 8.9 million dollars.  She decides to put up a million dollars reward for the safe return of her   husband Bobby. Big mistake. At the same time that Barbie was on TV putting  up the reward, Bobby is sitting in Tucson AZ  watching TV with his girl  friend. They decide to pack their bags and go claim the reward for  themselves. There are 2 other  people who also want the money, Bobby's  greedy girlfriend and a crazy bounty hunter. The book goes through their   misadventures, in the attempt to try and claim the million dollars for  themselves. Barbie's family is a wee bit wacky but they  have Barbie's best  interest at heart. Be prepared for a surprise end.                 I found  it to be a well, written, lighthearted read that held my attention. A good  read for a lazy day.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R2OAL54WQO8CVX	0767903986	498160433	A Dangerous Profession: A Book About the Writing Life	Books	5	7	10	N	N	very informative	You should read this book if you are a beginning writer who wants assurance that others too have written and been   rejected over and over again. IF you think you would like to be a novelist to have glamour, fame,  and fortune, than read on   so that you can persuade yourself to go into  another line of work.  <br />  Frederick Busch knows about the dangers of  writing, he is a best selling author of more than twenty works of fiction  and   non- fiction, but you do not see him on nightly TV.  Busch examines  what makes him and the writers that he admires   including Charles Dickens,  Herman Melville and Ernest Hemingway continue to write in the darkest  hours.  The reason is   simply to share stories.  Busch is the writer of  the sixteen essays that are in the book.  If a writer is honest with  himself, he   hopes that what he writes will be interesting to the readers.   <br />  Called a Notable book of 1998 by the New York Times, A Dangerous  Profession will captivate writers and readers alike,   inspiring them to  pick up books that they would not normally want to read, which has been the  case with me.  I would   recommend this book to any one who likes to read.	2000-07-29
US	49709381	R3IUU55AOX2D3V	038549615X	232031305	The Great Divide (Marcus Glenwood Series #1)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	A Great Read	The Great Divide (polyical ) T. Davis Bunn DoubleDay - June2000 ISBN: 038549615X - Hardcover &lt Marcus Glenwood was a partner ina very prestigious corporate law firm until he was involved in a car accident that killed his children and almost killed his wife, who blames him and is divorcing him. Worst of all he blames himself and is living in his own private hell.  Marcus decides to move back to his hometown of Rocky Mount, North Carolina, into the old Victorian manor that was his grandparents. Little did Marcus know that when he moved back to Rocky Mount, that the biggest and most difficult case of his lifetime would fall into his lap. The church of New Zion is that client. The church was founded with the first earnings of freed slaves, and Marcus successfully stops a court action made by a company that wants the churches historic cemetery relocated so they can build a factory in it's place.  Marcus has won a battle against New Horizons Co., but the war is raging and it will not be so easy this time with the dirty tactics that New Horizons uses.<br /> This book is very well written with lots of lovely, caring characters.  Dee Gautam, who works with Marcus, is a very enigmatic lady who provides Marcus with some very important info. Kristen is a young woman who has suffered her own family tragedy and whom Marcus finds himself drawn to. Charlie Hayes a retired judge and a supportive mentor who will serve as co-counsel.<br /> T. Davis Bunn has a talent for creating a wide range of characters whose humanity and concern for each other is tremendously moving. Thought that the most compelling character of all was Marcus. While writing a thrilling trial filled with surprising twists and shocking revelations, T. Davis Bunn also pens an inspirational work about Marcus's Path to self-forgiveness.  In the church of New Zion, Marcus finds a surrogate family who welcomes him with open arms, helps him go on with his life, and learn to love himself again.<br />Reading The Great Divide was like reading several stories that came together collectedly into a nice tight package. An immense read.  5 stars for sure. Pam Stone	2000-07-04
US	49709381	R2IUZCZLBGI6KB	0451198476	601200183	The Burglar in the Rye: The New Bernie Rhodenbarr Mystery (Bernie Rhodenbarr Mysteries)	Books	1	2	6	N	N	Don't Bother With This One	The Burglar in The Rye Lawrence Block Signet - May 2000 ISBN:0451198476 - Paperback Mystery / Comic&ltThis is Bernie Rhodenbarr's ninth heist.  Bernie Rhodenbarr, bookseller by day and burglar by night, is on the prowl again.  Alice Cottrell has hired him to steal back the letters of reclusive author Gullivar Fairborn from Anthea Landauthe, who is about to put them up for auction.  Bernie breaks into her room to search for the letters, but instead of letters he finds Anthea's dead body, and the cops are not far behind him.  Bernie gathers all the suspects together in one room to see if he can try and weed out the culprit behind the murder that he is accused of.<br /> The Burglar in The Rye is a well-written book, but I had some real problems with it. (1) Every character in the book is involved with the murder, desired letters, or the missing jewels (a subplot).  Telltale clues are left throughout the plot, which enables the reader to guess the outcome too early in the book. (2) Next, Block takes one-liners and turns them into several pages of talk, for instance \\"The Femininity\\" of Bernie's lesbian friend, \\"Carloyn, and Paddington Bear,\\" or any number of dumb drinking jokes. Who really cares about these things?  They didn't have anything to do with the storyline.  Worst of all, the ending of the book is so preposterous; it did not make any sense.  I know that Lawrence Block is a great writer and can write a good book because I read \\"The Hit Man\\" and it was a grand read. Not this one.  Pam Stone END	2000-07-04
US	49709381	R2W325E4BMKEM9	0061012513	317368412	Storming Heaven	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Storming Heaven	&gt;  &gt; &gt; &gt; Storming Heaven  (Political / Thriller) &gt; Kyle Mills &gt; Harper Jan. 2000 &gt; ISBN: 0061012513  - Paperback &gt; &gt; This is the 2nd installment of Mark Beaman; the 1st was &quot;Rising  Phoenix &quot; &gt; &gt; FBI special agent Mark Beaman is not your model  book hero; he is overweight, &gt; smokes, and drinks too much.   His ways  and refusal to play by the rules &gt; cause him major trouble with his  bosses so he is transferred from Washington &gt; D.C. to Flagstaff,  Arizona, and given one more chance to change his ways or &gt; be fired.  &gt; &gt; A millionaire couple Eric and Patricia Davis are murdered in  their home and &gt; 15 year-old daughter Jennifer is missing. Beaman is on  the case, and at &gt; first, he thinks that Jennifer is guilty. Beaman set  off on a trail that &gt; takes him from a remote backwoods survivalists  cabin into the Utah mountains &gt; through the headquarters of a cult like  church called the &quot;Church of &gt; Evolution&quot; that seems to be  ahead of him where ever a clue leads him. Just &gt; when Beaman thinks he's  close to solving the case, he discovers that the &gt; murder and kidnapping  is far more menacing and far-reaching than he first &gt; thought.  As  Beaman falls back on his old unorthodox work methods, he &gt; discovers  that nothing is what it seems, and finds himself the victim of a &gt;  mysterious harassment.  Beaman must find the killers and at the same time  &gt; warn the people before America is brought to it's knees &gt; &gt;  Storming Heaven is filled with a very likable cast of characters, and some  &gt; that are not so likable but that is what makes for an spine tingling  and &gt; fast paced read.   Mark Beaman is an extraordinary investigator  with an &gt; unselfish drive to solve crimes and seek justice, whether by  the book or his &gt; own way. &gt; &gt; Pam Stone	2000-07-01
US	49709381	R17AYFM8YE1RKK	0060193336	771444694	Free Fall	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Free Fall	&gt; &gt; &gt; ================== &gt; Free Fall  (Political / Thriller) &gt; Kyle Mills &gt; Harper  - May 2000 &gt; ISBN: 0060193336 - Hardcover &gt; &gt; This is the 3rd installment of Mark Beaman. &quot;Rising Phoenix  was the 1st and &gt; &quot;Storming Heaven&quot; was the 2nd. &gt; &gt;  Mark Beaman has been suspended by the FBI and is fighting a legal battle to  &gt; keep himself out of jail. Beaman is hired by presidential candidate  David &gt; Hallorin to find a file code named &quot;Prodigy&quot; that was  found by Tristan &gt; Newberry hidden in a box in a warehouse where the  Department of Agriculture &gt; had some old files. The &quot;Prodigy&quot;  file was put in the wrong place to be lost &gt; forever. Before long,  Tristan Newberry is found dead, and now the file is in &gt; the hands of  his former lover Darby Moore.  Beaman must find Darby and the &gt; missing  file. What Beaman doesn't know is that the &quot;Prodigy&quot; file has  been &gt; hidden in that warehouse since J. Edgar Hoover created it to use  against &gt; Politicians. Beaman eventually changes sides and joins Draby  in an effort to &gt; help the American public and to put himself back in  the good graces of the &gt; FBI. &gt; &gt; With unforgettable action  sequences that transport the reader everywhere &gt; from the run down  prisons of Thailand to the icy covered snowfields of &gt; Wyoming, Free  Fall has some of the same great characters as the previous two &gt; books,  Rising Phoenix and Storming Heaven. There was too much rock-climbing &gt;  for my taste even though I learned something on the subject. I really liked  &gt; the character of Darby; She is energetic and a superhuman woman of  admirable &gt; exploits who overcomes incredible obstacles in the book.  Free Fall is a mix &gt; of suspense, carnage, and even a little humor  thrown in.  Mr. Mills keeps &gt; the reader transfixed and turning pages to  the very spectacular conclusion. &gt;<br />   Pam Stone	2000-07-01
US	49709381	RK5VZQ2HQ4I2L	1891020463	950027335	Murder and Mint Tea	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Murder and Mint Tea	Katherine Miller, a 65-year-old retired nurse, loves her soothing mint tea.  After a serious fall leaves her with a broken    leg, her son Andrew takes it upon himself to rent out the bottom floor apartment of her house to Rachel Rogers and her    two children, Tim and Susie.  That's when the  neighborhood begins going downhill.  <br />   Rachel is a mean woman who loves  her self and what she can get from men. She doesn't care if they are  married or    not.  There are so many people who dislike Rachel ...   <br />   I found this book to be very engaging and filled with the most  wonderful cast of characters that you will love, especially    Katherine  who is gutsy even at 65 years of age.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R3AXLVXTGMKB83	1929034962	805893353	Listen To The Shadows	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Listen to the Shadows	Katie Summers jumps into her car to go home after waiting several hours for her date that never shows up. Katie's eyes   are drawn to her rear view mirror. Her eyes are stuck there as she looks at a sightless glaring set of  eyes looking at her. A   scream bubbles up in her throat. She loses control  of her car and hits a wall. Everything goes black. This is just the    beginning of a mystery that will leave you breathless. Katie is being  stalked, and she has no idea who it might be or who   would want to hurt  her.  <br />  From the moment that I started reading this book I was hooked.  The author has a way of pulling you into this thriller very   early on and  keeping you there wondering just who the stalker is until the very end of  the book. Along with an excellent   mystery you get a very tender love  story between Katie and Dr. Jonathan Shea.  <br />  This is a book that will  stick with me for a long while. As I was reading, my heart would beat fast  and the hair on the back   of my neck stood straight, and to me that is the  true sign of a good thriller. When you read this one make sure that the  lights   are on and that all your doors are locked.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R1VQ214TWG4AS0	0060194405	14304921	In Her Defense	Books	5	11	13	N	N	In Her Defense	Frank O'Connell has lost his family, his name, and a partnership in his father-in-law's prestigious Washington firm.  He now   has to comb the cellblocks for clients.  One day while he is down in the cellblocks talking  to a client, a woman in the next   cellblock notices Frank, and when she  gets out of jail, she goes to him and hires him. <br />  Ashley Bronson is the  client and she is accused of killing Raymond Garvey, former Secretary of  Commerce.  In the   beginning, it appears to Frank that the most difficult  thing about the case is that Ashley confessed.  He soon finds out that    there is more to this case that meets the eye, and it started years before  the murder. <br />  This is Stephen Horn's first novel and what a great read  it is.  This is not just your typical mystery.  There are Russian    American spies involved.  The courtroom scenes were as up and down as a  roller coaster.  This was a fast-paced legal   thriller with a tale of  betrayal and murder all wrapped up in one suspenseful story. <br />  Kudos to  Stephen Horn.  I cannot wait for his second book.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R135MDPTZ7BB1W	0425174271	51899905	Certain Prey	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Certain Prey	This is the 10th installment of John Sandford's Prey series with his protagonist Minneapolis police detective Lucas   Davenport. <br />  Lucas Davenport confronts a new kind of adversary this time, a woman named Clara  Rinker, and she is the best-hit   woman in the business. Attorney Carmel  Loan hires Clara Rinker when she wants barrister Hale Allen all to herself  and   wants Allen's wife out of the picture. This time things go wrong for  Rinker. She leaves a witness who happens to be a cop.   Carmel and Rinker  team up together to clean up the loose ends, including Davenport. <br />  This  book is filled with brilliant characters and is an exceptional thriller.   Sandford keeps the level of suspense at a fevered   pitch as he shifts  viewpoints between the women and Davenport. It is a very well written and  fast-paced book.  This book   is not for the faint of heart; it has a lot  of gore, sex and to many bodies to keep track of, but even with that this  is one great   book to read.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R3SYGME62GLNA6	1575665409	759818149	Murder Among Strangers	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Murder Among Strangers	This is the 4th installment of the Kate Austin mysteries.<br />The story begins when Kate stops to help a stranded motorist and ends up kidnapped her self. Even after Kate escapes the real trouble begins. The plot is  filled with twists and turns that keep you guessing until the surprising  climax.  The relationship between Kate and Mike Stone is tested, as it has  never been before.<br />I was kept on the edge of my seat throughout this  book. Just when I thought a problem was solved, up popped another. It was a  very well told story and fast-paced.  Jonnie Jacobs is a masterful writer  who blends multi faceted characters into a well-blended mystery.<br />Pam  Stone	2000-06-20
US	49709381	RPHU4QEXG1CY6	1885173725	826214162	Measure of Vengeance: A Mystery	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Measure of Vengeance	Megan Roark, aspiring author and full time editor for a major New York Publishing house, starts receiving black envelopes   with chapters of an unsigned work. At first she believes the chapters are fiction. Gradually  she begins to believe that the   author is actually telling his own story.  Megan hears a news report of a body being found and realizes the name is  same as   one of the women in the chapters sent to her. Megan finds out who  is on the case, a Lieutenant Colunga, and calls him with   details but  refuses to give her name for fear of becoming a victim.  <br />  Go along on  the journey to find this sadistic serial killer who is looking for love in  all the wrong places. Jerry Jellison guides   the reader into the soul of  this sadist killer who wears a mask of sanity while going about his daily  job in society. The first   four chapters are slow to get started but after  that the story really takes off fast.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R7DDHA5HAGXG8	0425100650	642390946	Twilight Eyes	Books	2	4	8	N	N	Twilight Eyes	The main character, Slim Mackenzie, lives in a carnival and has the ability to see the true nature of people. He sees goblins   posing as humans with the intentions of wiping out the human race. I loved the fact  that Dean Koontz went into such detail   when describing the characters.  You really feel as if you can see them standing in front of you. Slim was  an exciting and   alive character; also Rya and Joel Tuck were great  characters. This was a well-written and fast-paced book, but I found it    very hard to buy into.  When the true nature of the book was brought out, I  thought to myself is that all they really are? <br />  I was disappointed with  the ending.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R2WODQ3XOF0H20	0684841185	466385534	Death du Jour	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Death du Jour	Dr. Tempe Brennen is back again. This time there are two stories blended into one, and the transition is easy to follow.    The bones of Sister Elisabeth Nicolet who has been dead for over a century, have been moved and  tampered with, and a   deadly house fire, which is suspected as arson, and  a university teaching assistant who disappears after joining a cult.    Homicide Detective Andrew Ryan, whom Tempe has had a combustive  relationship with, in the past, joins her in the   investigation. I enjoyed  this book as much as I did Deja Dead.  Tempe is an amazing heroine. the  medical details are exact   and accurate, the plot is exciting and has lots  of twists and turns. <br />  This book really grabbed me from the very first  page and held me on the end of my seat, and what a wonderful ride it was.    I cannot wait for the next installment of Tempe, which will be Death  Decisions. To entice us, Dr. Reichs gave a sampling of   the new book in  the back of Death DeJour.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	RCMY8ZUOETOVE	1929613180	590647320	The Rhythm of Revenge	Books	4	3	3	N	N	The Rhyhm of Revenge	This is the 1st installment of Inspector Terry mystery andtakes place in London.<br />When Jessica Warner disappears shortly beforethe big premiere of the London-based tap-dance troupe, Inspector Terry is called in to investigate. Suspense mounts as Jessica's husband, ex-lovers, their jealous wives, and fellow cast members reveal their true feelings about Jessica.<br />When I first started reading this book, I thought that I would get confused, but the opposite happened. Each character comes to life as you turn the pages. They become real, feeling people. Spindler's writing style literally transports you to another place with descriptions so vivid its as if we all become part of the performing cast. This fast-paced story line is filled with non-stop action. Spindler has written an enticing web of mystery, adultery, deceit, love and hate. I am really looking forward to the next Inspector Terry mystery.<br /> Pam Stone END	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R1WCA0NI4Q7FCA	0671011367	484181364	Deja Dead (Temperance Brennan Novels)	Books	5	134	138	N	N	Deja Dead	Dr. Temperance Brennen, (Tempe for short) moves from North Carolina, leaving behind a shaky marriage and bad   memories for Quebec to be the Director of Forensic Anthropology.  When an unidentified female corpse is  discovered   meticulously dismembered and stashed in plastic trash bags,  Tempe remembers a case that was very much like this one in   North  Carolina, but she cannot convince the police department so she must  investigate on her own, which puts her life and   some of her loved ones in  danger, Can she solve the case before this happens? <br />  This is one of the  most gripping thrillers that I have ever read. I was always a big Patricia  Cornwell fan, but Kathy Reichs'   heroine, Dr. Tempe Brennen, has more  depth and personality to her than Dr. Kay Scarpetta. When Kathy Reichs    describes scenes, they are amazing in detail, especially in the forensic  anthropology area. There are many surprising twists   and turn throughout  the book, and the ending is the real shocker. <br />  Move over Patricia  Cornwell you have been replaced by Dr. Kathy Reichs as far as I am  concerned.	2000-06-20
US	49709381	R2RE3BR64AWPSK	1929034466	875425283	Kiss of Deceit	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Kiss of Deceit	Snake Gallego is a big, burly biker that gets accused of his wife's murder. Det. LeAnne McVeigh is the one who arrests   Snake, but afterwards she has doubts that he is actually guilty. Chad Baker is the County  Prosecutor and is also engaged   to LeAnne; he thinks that they have the  right man. Snake's alibi steps forward and he is freed. A serial killer is  on the loose   and must be caught. There are several suspects but the  author gives just a hint of information to let you know it could be   any  of them.          This is a very well written book. The plot goes along at  a fast pace with a lot of suspense and electrifying, sexual tension    between LeAnne and Snake. When you finally discover the killer you will be  surprised by who it is. This was definitely a   heart-racing novel in more  ways than one. What a super read it was! I will not forget this one.	2000-06-20
