US	49709123	R3403T3M5EPNA3	0486260283	41543297	Mexican Painters: Rivera, Orozco, Siqueiros, and Other Artists of the Social Realist School (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	4	25	25	N	N	"There is no mystery about art"	Originally published in in 1941 Dover released this paperback edition in 1989 in their line of Art history books. Dover does a nice job of reviving important works at affordable prices. Granted this edition may not be as grand as the original  published by Harper & Lee but it serves as a sort of everyman's introductory guide that is transportable. The author, Mackinley Helm has first hand knowledge of his subject as he rubbed shoulders with the Big Three, Orozco, Siquieros & Rivera.  Many items featured in print are from his oown collection. Of these the drawings are most notable. Besides being an art collector himself he knew these individuals which provides his discourse with insight  and first hand knowledge. However Helm goes way beyond just exploring the greater known Mexican artists as he ties all aspects together  for a seemless  vision which includes including social and political influences. There are ten chapters and he aptly begins with the '\\"grandfather \\" of Mexican Art  Dr. Atl or as he calls him theSaint John the Baptist of Mexican Art.  Christened Gerardo Murrillo, Dr. Atl adopted his own name from the Nahuatl language meaning water. Working in the shadows of the volcano Popocatepetl or \\"Popo\\" he feathered his legend  living simply and looking like Biblical figure with long beard  and by painting natural  vistas usually with Popo in the background. He later established an art school where notable Mexican painters studied. In the first chapter Helm also explores the influence of another master, Guadalupe Posada, who influenced the more well known muralists who came to be known as the Big Three. Posada was known for drawing calveras or skeletons, he created caricatures of political figues in the newspaper during a time of upheaval prior to the Mexican Revolution. All of these early influences are explored that would be the foundation for the flourishing renaissance in Mexican Art. Although much of the book is dedicated to the Big Three Helms does explore many lesser known artists and includes 82 plates and 95 illustrations. The prints are adequate but  not spectacular as they are in black and white. When compared to the colorful originals or plates found in other books it is a little disappointing . However the pencil and ink drawings do translate well although the size is limited to the smaller size(see dimensions) of the book. I think the strength of this book is the text itself which is full of historical information  and personal recollections. Artists covered include , Rivera, Siquiros , Orozco, Kahlo, Tamayo, Posada, Escobedo, Morado, Meza, Romero, Lazo, Montenegro, Merida, Goitia, Ruiz, Izquierdo, Lozano, Cantu, Lozano and Galvan.This is an excellent introduction to Mexican Art book but also serves well  someone more well versed in the subject matter. Recommended for Mexican Art enthusiasts.re many lesser known artists and includes 82 plates and 95 illustrations. The prints are adequate but  not spectacular as they are in black and white. When compared to the colorful originals or plates found in other books it is a little disappointing . However the pencil and ink drawings do translate well although the size is limited to the smaller size(see dimensions) of the book. I think the strength of this book is the text itself which is full of historical information  and personal recollections. Artists covered include , Rivera, Siquiros , Orozco, Kahlo, Tamayo, Posada, Escobedo, Morado, Meza, Romero, Lazo, Montenegro, Merida, Goitia, Ruiz, Izquierdo, Lozano, Cantu, Lozano and Galvan.This is an excellent introduction to Mexican Art book but also serves well  someone more well versed in the subject matter. Recommended for Mexican Art enthusiasts.	2005-06-15
US	49709123	R1E92EAQB1FXNN	3822859702	717516023	Picasso (Basic Art)	Books	4	15	17	N	N	For young Picasso's too	This is a very nice introduction to the works of Picasso. In the early nineties this book was a gift to one of my sons who was a mere child then. It is quite appropriate for young readers as there are many pictures . The parent or teacher can cultivate or nourish a young persons interest in art with these nice reproductions. The early period of Picasso's works, most notably his Cubist period seems to particularly intrigue young artists as they seem to relate to the \\"disfigured\\" human anotomy etc. In the case of my son he liked these pictures very much and as a result has a pretty good eye and hand for art that translates into interesting drawings and graphic arts. I believe this is in part a result of his early exposure to this Picasso book. Although the text is ackward at times it can be modified or paraphrased for youngsters. This is good stuff for the budding Picasso in your household and of course the price is right.	2005-06-10
US	49709123	R33TRK0IXJZOR4	078670506X	791112881	Bunuel	Books	4	5	6	N	N	"God, death, women, wine, dreams"	First the good news. There are many interesting anecdotes related to the life of Luis Bunuel in this book. The common denominator throughout the book, mingled between ancedotes,  is a portrait of man who was obsessive , compassionate, bizarre to the point of ecentric but driven to achieve. Now the bad news, the anecdotes bog down the biography and muddle the facts concerning this most interesting film maker. It is interesting on one level, learning the various pecularities of this man, his associations etc. but somewhere in the reading one asks oneself who am I really reading about in this book? Maybe the problem in trying to write about a complex man, who like many of us takes contradictory turns in a lifetime of experiences , it  eventually becomes confusing to the point where one asks , is this the same guy I was reading about earlier? Is it an enjoyable read? I would have to say yes. Is it complete, a definitive statement about one of the giants of Spanish  language cinema? Hardly , but if you thirst for knowledge it will quench your thirst much like lemonade, only temporarily. In the end you will come away slightly frustrated  and want to know more. The problem is that book has not been written yet. John Baxter, try has he did by researching interviews, speaking with family , friends and colloboraters creates a book that like Bunuel is all over the map, which results in an unsettling feeling overall. I for one did like the book and read it as a \\"second \\" book, a light read that was enjoyable a chapter  or two at a time. It did end rather abruptly  but intrigued me enough to \\"save\\" the last chapter for a few days before I finished the book. I also liked the photogrphs but wish there were more. All the peripheral  information aside it is nonetheless an interesting read, a springboard if you will for a  better understanding  of some of the films he made.	2005-06-10
US	49709123	RVGZLJFGH3EDA	0060215186	495583775	Langston Hughes: American Poet	Books	5	5	5	N	N	American poet	This is a very touching book for both children and adults alike. The portrait of America in another era is accurate and informative for young minds to understand how things were once upon a  time. The biographical sketch relays the influnces early on in Langston Hughes life which shaped him to become one of the great poets of the twentieth century, in spite of racism. His father lived in Mexico and had a disregard for black people who  seperated himself to the extent of living in Mexico. Although he(Langston's father) did well for himself in Mexico he did not support his son. The  major exception was sending him regretfully to Columbia University which Langston eventually dropped out of much to his  fathers displeasure. Hughes felt isolated and much more relaxed in nearby Harlem. Langston Hughes was a man of letters that he inherited from the story telling his grandmother told him. His love for his culture translated into many books of poetry. Alice Walker  is the writer of this children's book and the author of \\"The Color Purple,\\" and was tremendously influenced by Hughes himself who she met as a college student.  The illustrations are pretty  realistic and further document the story. The book is easy enough for youngsters and may also be good material for middle school readers who have not yet achieved grade level profiency. It is an inspirational story that may get a youngster motivated to write or read further.	2005-06-08
US	49709123	R3UXYG49BAXEBL	0233985840	922405454	Constancia and Other Stories for Virgins	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Five short stories	Fuentes revels in language and creating imagery that astounds, intrigues and leaves the reader in a land of limbo that is both magical and real. In this seemingly different collection of short stories or novellas the masterful literary pupeteer Fuentes draws the reader into his web of stories that covers centuries of history over various continents. Whether the stories take place in Spain, the United States or Eastern Europe the end result is a timeless portrait  with  universal themes with evocative resonance. The five stories in this collection have recurrent themes as in the clever classic novel by Fuentes entitled \\"Christoper Unborn,\\" which is also highly recomended. Of particualar interest in the collection of novellas is \\"La Desdichada\\" where two students steal a manequin and fall in love. The storyline borders on the absurd but in reality  it is a poets vechicle of expression for love. After all a woman of wood will be faithful to a man but will a man of flesh and blood  prove he is worthy of fidelity ? All of the stories are excellent but of particular note was one I found  very interesting entitled \\"Viva Mi Fama.\\" This is a story that leaps from the present to the past by way of a Goya painting of a matador of fame by the name of Pepe Romero. The journey through Andalusia finds the reader tranported to Goya's Spain traversing the countryside from Bordeaux to Madrid and all lands in between. IMO there is no better story teller in Latin America and surely none as prolific as Carlos Fuentes. This is a beautiful collection of stories that are especially good for the person who is new to the visual , visceral and sometimes erotic literature of Fuentes. Great stuff for new and old readers of the magical world of Carlos Fuentes, one of the preeminent man of letters in Latin America.	2005-06-07
US	49709123	R1RUO4K8ZGXM9H	0152014373	611304588	Harvesting Hope: The Story of Cesar Chavez	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Si Se Puede	Let's begin by saying that the drawings are super and captivating. Yuyi Morales creates characters that show emotion and the result is a drawing of emotion from the young reader. As the title implies this is the story of Cesar Chavez who many adults came to know about from his work with the farmworkers in California. This story humanizes the man by beginning in his childhood. The roots of the farmworker leader are explored as  a young person traveling from crop to crop , from state to state. A drought in Arizona began the family oddyssey that would result in Caser Chavez becoming familiar first hand with the troubles of the farmworkers. Life on the road became a harsh reality. The treatment he encountered in school forced him to drop out in eighth grade but the treatment in the fields wasn't much better, at times it was much worse. This is simple story about a complex problem that one man was determined to overcome. He wanted justice for farmworkers and organized. He became to Mexicans what MLK was for civil rights, for Mexicans it was an extension of civil rights. This is a beautiful book for young readers or those not so young that are learning to read in English if they have a reading foundation in another language. Although it is recommended for children ages 6-9, middle school students, ages 9-12, especially those with limited English proficiency can benefit from this story well told. For the teacher or parent this book can help instill pride and understanding as to how determination, perseverance and hard work can overcome even the greatest odds.	2005-06-07
US	49709123	R7W87Z3E7L5RP	0513017682	603487425	Dona Blanca and Other Hispanic Nursery Rhymes and Games (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Pretty cool	If you are a young parent trying to keep some of your family traditions alive or a teacher working with Latino children you may enjoy this book. It is a bilingual text with one or two rhymes per page. The rhymes that were originally Spanish do not translate very well into English but they do get the point across. The book has illustrations but they are rudimentary  and not very creative. They are also two toned, white and orange/brown. This book is geared for the teacher or parent to work with a group of  children as it gives instructions on what they are to do while saying the rhymes. For example, \\"two children stand holding hands up high forming an arch,\\" etc.This book is intended to facilitate activity so it would serve well to get the squigglies out. With eighteen different nursery rhymes that are well known in  Mexico, Spain and Latin America in one variation or another the teacher will have a nice variety of games to work with.	2005-03-09
US	49709123	R8688INOVXYN1	0613882679	645858359	Celebrations	Books	3	3	5	N	N	American celebrations	This is a nice book to read to a young child who cannot read yet. It features some simple poetry that is short but sweet. The poetry is complimented by some very nice illustrations which are the highlight of this book. The colorful creations will delight a young persons mind. Sixteen celebrations are featured beginning with New Years Eve and concluding with a Birthday. Martin Luther King Day features a nice tribute in poetry and Halloween is bound to make any youngster giggle with a peering witch and black cat gazing from the book. The book is about the size of a coloring book and a child can handle it with ease. The colorful drawings will entertain while the imaginative parent or teacher prepares for  their next activity. A good first lesson in celebrations that most preschoolers are somewhat familiar with. Since it is poetry the teacher or parent will have to fill in the information for the inquisitive minds questions concerning the celebrations. Nice for a childs first collection of books.	2005-03-09
US	49709123	RHG4OGXVHX0BH	1562944797	855004299	Historical Album Of California (Historical Albums)	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Like a mini textbook	Mr. George Delalis makes some interesting points in the editorial rewiew featured here from the School Library Journal. To the books credit the first third of the book discusses the native population, early exploration  including settlement by the Europeans and their missions. The incidents leading up to the establishment of the Bear Flag Republic are dealt with in paragraphs without much detail. For example, the concept of Manifest Destiny is briefed over with essentially a definition and one incident in Monterrey. The young reader can only benefit by getting an overview of historical facts. The Gold Rush and Chinese immigration and the development of the railroad concludes the 1800's. Suddenly it is the twentieth century, followed by the depression, WWII and a sunny conclusion with surfers going out to the beach on the last pages. There are several interesting pictures and illustrations of note  to compliment the book but it is still a rather dry and boring book to capture a young persons imagination. There are also maps and a California gazetteer with quick facts,California historical timeline and a who's who of California personalities. Teachers cannot pull  very much from this book to enrich a students understanding of California. This book can only serve the young student as a supplement  when doing a report  and works primarily for painting a broad picture of historical facts.	2005-03-09
US	49709123	R37RD8F4BTNLT8	0860206211	740755354	Living in Castle Times (First History)	Books	3	6	6	N	N	A  young  childs book	A nice little book that is small enough for the young reader to hold and learn about life six hundred years ago.  The book takes the reader on a journey of discovery with a nine year old  boy named Thomas Middleton. With Thomas the young  student  will learn about family life, apprentices, journeymen and going to school. By accompanying Thomas the student will go shopping in the town and learn about the unsanitary conditions of the times. The student will visit a workshop, take a trip to a monastery, go to a village and conclude by learning about living inside a castle. The book has adequate illustrations. This book can be used with young ones who do not read yet as the parent can read the captions while the child looks at the various pictures. A child will love to hold and look at the pictures. A nice small book for growing minds.	2005-03-09
US	49709123	R1GRIKHPLZ8HOS	0766014118	552731632	American Indian Mythology	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Too little not enough	If you are considering buying this book for your students or child first read the editorial review here by the American Library Journal. In a nutshell that is the essence of the book and it's unfortunate shortcoming. Hence the book might serve best as a book for an older student who wants to just learn about the diverse American Indian experience. The book is a little dry and probably is  best  for a young student who really enjoys reading and does not need much other further stimulation in the form of visual enhancement. Since students do enjoy being read to , even when they are older, it may be useful for a teacher to read this book , one chapter per lesson to enrich the students understanding of other cultures. There are questions and answers and expert commentary at the end of only some chapters to help the student fully grasp the ideas explored. The stories themselves are their own reward and fully entertaining but the presentaion is a little dry. This book is good for reports and teacher led reading. A students active imagination is a must for  this book.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	R1YJR2P0A4K1TX	0811819280	77102830	Mexican Muralists: Orozco, Rivera, Siqueiros	Books	5	24	26	N	N	The Big Three	Read the editorial reviews first and if you are still not convinced that this book  does a good job covering the Big Three than get individual books on each. The text is outstanding and  puts the works of art into a political context of the time period. The author is analytical, insightful and definitely well versed in the subject matter.There is an exhaustive bibliography, extensive endnotes on each chapter and spectacular reproductions on thick quality paper stock. There are historical photographs of public  works in progress and a varity of camera angles of individual murals to show the enormity of the works. I have seen many of these murals on location and this book does an excellent job of portraying them as they are. When you see a Rivera fresco on  a wall at the National Palace live or in this case from a pulled out camera angle and see the railing leading to the next floor being dwarfed by the images it is truly impressive. Looking at the details within the murals is the ultimate visual experience where you can get lost in the picture  and the  meaning. The closeups  and details of individual segments are superior. This is art for the peoples public viewing brought directly to you from Mexico to hold in your hands and examine at your leisure. There are several good books out there on Mexican Murals but this one for the money is outstanding. The three artists each had a distictive style but each brought a unifying nationalistic approach to the walls of public buildings. Is one artist better than the other? You be the judge, everyone has their own favorite.  If you are unfamiliar with the works of the Big Three than check it out, you are in for a treat.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	R5CVQHIQMJGEN	0766014096	456837990	Mayan and Aztec Mythology	Books	4	17	17	N	N	Ancient MesoAmerican beliefs	As one of the books in the Mythology Series for young adults with such titles as Chinese Mythology, Heroes in Greek Mythology, Inuit Mythology, Egyptian Mythology  and American Indian Mythology this book does a very good job in introducing the myths and gods of  these two great  civizations. It really is a five star young adult book but I took away one star because the ilustrations and maps are in black and white. A pity considering the colorful geograpical region and cultures would have been made so much more interesting in color. The author, Michael Schuman does a good job of differentiating the distinct yet similar cultures. There is an explanation of the Polol Vuh  and the creation of life according to this  ancient  Mayan text. Of particular importance is the scholary advice lent by experts at the end of each  section so that the student can fully understand the underlying themes explored in the myths. This can prove to be very useful fo the teacher also for further guided discussion.  The Aztecs and their belief system are examined beginning as with the Mayans with the creation of the world. After each reading or chapter there are also  a series of questions  and answers to further solidify the lesson . This coupled with the expert comentary results in enlightenment for the student if they didn't fully understand a concept. There is also a short glossary to expand the students vocabulary. Students or children will learn about Quetzalcoatl,Tezcatlipoca, Huitizilopochtli, the nahual and  the Mexica people. This book is a good read for youngsters wanting to know more  about the beliefs of these ancient civilizations.  The book is a good  suppliment for student  reports. Recommended for young adults in the middle school to high school.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	R3VWMWOCXUIDZP	0791027341	910323334	The Zulus (Journey into Civilization)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Distant land, people and culture	As part of the Journey into Civilization series that helps youngsters study ancient civizatiions like The Aztecs, Ancient China, Ancient Egypt, Ancient Greece, The Maya, The Mongols, The Vikings, The Romans and The Sioux this book serves as a good introduction to the cultures from the past. The books are relatively short(this one is 32 pages) and begins with a brief geography lesson that also explains the impact of the land. The book is full of rich, colorful  illustrations, maps and photographs that help the young learner travel to distant lands. The warriors and chiefs are highlighted along with their weapons and the significance of their historical roles. Religion is discussed with the introduction of their beliefs and their god. The use of herbs and divination is also discussed. All facets of the culture are explored with an emphasis on the crafts, the realationship to nature of the tribe, folklore, fables, wars and the Zulus  relationship with colonists.  Since the Zulus are from a foreign culture to most young  Americans there are many words that need  further explanation for the young mind to fully absorb. The teacher or parent may use the included  glossary to achieve an expanded vocabulary for the student. Most of the words in the glossary are foreign with the exception of immigrant, snuff and folklore. This is a good picture book that is entertaining and useful for the young student to expand their perceptions of culture and the world.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	R1M774NA4Y31AQ	038505016X	197561514	Spain: A History in Art	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Marvelous paintings	This is an oversized coffee table book that does exactly as the title indicates. It begins with prehistory 20,00-1000 B.C. with cave paintings and concludes with the cultural renaissance and the \\"generation of '98.\\" Consequently not much  is covered of Spain in the 20th or let alone the 21st century. The text is pretty well written in a highlight  USA Today fashion but the true beauty and reason to own this book is the art work dispalyed. Within you will see the works of Velasquez, Goya , Murillo, Miro,Sorolla, Picasso and other less known  but almost equally impressive outside of Spain artists works. Interestingly enough Dali is absent. Most of the paintings are currently housed in The Prado, Museo de Bellas Artes, or some other museum in Spain . If the paintings are not in a museum than they are in palaces like the  Palacio Real or El Escorial so they are quite rare and old. Besides famous paintings there also sculptures used to explain the history of Spain. Ancient codice are examined usually without any specifics other than saying it is an Archivo de Indias(Indian archives).The whirlwind detailed history lesson also goes through the Moslem and Christian Period, The Catholic Sovereigns, The Exploration of the New World  and The House of Bourbon. Many aspects of Spanish history are looked at including literature and architecture. A nice book to look at anytime, good for high school reports  and especially  beneficial for a students knowledge of art and history.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	RKHRV32C3WK3L	0836270061	161090362	Magic Eye: A New Way of Looking at the World	Books	3	5	10	N	N	In the eye of the beholder	This  visual manipulation is sort of fun to engage in with youngsters who seem to have more enthusiasim for this  3-D -eye-foolery. When I read this book with my children years ago  I didn't seem to have the patience to sit and stare at a bunch of randomly placed dots and come up with the correct image. I used to look at these things and start hallucinating and concocting images that were NOT there! If I waited long enough a younger, brighter mind would correct me and show me the real image. It got to be more fun than the  book to see what I thought I saw. I swear sometimes I just never saw what I was supposed to see. Luckily they give you the \\"answers\\" on another page  so you can cheat and look for what is supposed to just  jump out at you. Maybe my eye was untrainable? This book is sort of fun  for a break in activities with children but watch out  for the dots before your eyes, you just might see them after the pages are removed from your vision. Fun at a certain level(and frustrating) but there are many more entertaining books out there.	2005-03-08
US	49709123	R2P0KZO4U3KQHG	1594674574	677463996	Hear Him! the One Hundred Twenty-Five Commands of Jesus	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Good reading in these times	This is an uplifting book, no pun intended, that does a nice job of walking the tightrope of being scholarly  and  pedantic yet resulting in a fully accessible, friendly read that is not too heavy. Naturally it is beneficial to be familiar with scripture but not essential as everything accredited to the word of Jesus is clarified. The author, Peter Wittstock leans on his theological background to inform the readers of the glorious teachings of Jesus so that the pedogogy does not feel overbearing.There is  however a certain urgency in the writtings that are all the while refreshing and informative. The simple eloquence of Mr. Wittstocks message comes through in  the  language used to expalin he parables. I read this book over an extended  weekend and felt compelled to keep reading  once I started and learn more about the imperatives that make up the one hundred and twenty-five commands of Jesus. The meat of the book is in the commands  and the explanations to the quotes from the Gospel.  The explanations or straight forward, no nonsense interpretations  are very useful to the layman. Whether it is  a simple quote or one of the more complex commands, Mr Wittstock presents useful insight into the word. Having read this book shortly after undergoing a personally difficult time in my life I did find solace in this book. I had many questions and few satisfying answers. I was harboring some sentiments that were not very good and through this book came to understand once again that this is not right. It is not easy to grasp or act upon sometimes  but leading by example can be of benefit to oneself and also to others who may have ill feelings to others. Least I stray further from the book I will conclude by saying that this is a book that should be kept handy, rather than put away on one's shelf so that the book is available for frequent reading and inspiration. I am not an overly(is this possible?) religious person or a zealot  but I would recommend this book for anyone who is a Christian or wants to better understand the teachings of Jesus.  Rather than preach or reiterate the contents of the book I think it is best that you check this book out for yourself and make your own decisions. It is definitely thought provoking and worth your time . There is something of benefit to anyone who picks up and reads this book, of that I  can testify from my own experience.is a Christian or wants to better understand the teachings of Jesus.  Rather than preach or reiterate the contents of the book I think it is best that you check this book out for yourself and make your own decisions. It is definitely thought provoking and worth your time . There is something of benefit to anyone who picks up and reads this book, of that I  can testify from my own experience.	2005-03-07
US	49709123	R8HUX8DSBS0RL	0486273466	468886560	California Missions Coloring Book (Dover History Coloring Book)	Books	4	8	8	N	N	More than a coloring book	Although the reading level is recommended for ages 4-8 this little book can prove very  useful for parent , student and teacher alike of older children. Dover Publications allows their pages to be used for graphic and craft applications free without special permission. In California students are required in the fourth grade to  study the California Missions. A major project results in model building and art work coupled usually with a written  researched report. As a supplement to the students study this coloring book has many facts and nice illustrations that can be used in the students project. The teacher can use the pages to make copies  for their students and develop lesson plans around the illustrations. Putting several  pages together in a packet, creating a theme for study can further stimulate the student. All 21 missions are covered emphasizing the architectural splendor that existed in \\"romantic\\" early California. Everyday life is depicted as well as a brief overview of the Franciscan friars led by Junipero Serra that will also benefit the young student. This coloring  book  can be much more useful with creative development by the student, teacher or parent in accomplishing one of the educational goals establsihed for sixth grade students in California. It is a simple elementary book with lots of potential. This is one of many  coloring books by Dover Press that explores many different topics like Dinosaurs,  The American Automobile, The American Revolution , Space Exploration  and more. Get this little book to help your student learn more about the California Missions.	2005-03-02
US	49709123	RUOJDPFRMK1EA	B000738UHU	777973041	Peoples of the world	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Nice illustrations & lots of facts	If you are trying to teach a young one about  the wonders of the world or you are trying to explain why  people are different than  this book could be beneficial. The recommended  age level is kindergarten through about third grade, or higher if you are working with students who have not yet achieved English language proficiency. The book is short , concise  and full of facts. Although it is only 32 pages long it would require several lessons to go through this book because inquisitive minds will be intrigued by far away cultures and want to know more. My only complaint is that  each pageis a little \\"busy\\" and maybe covers too much information on each page. The book begins with the concept of people and their countries where you can discuss with your young student concepts like  different  flags, money and government.  The book shifts than to peoples ancestors and races of peole  and how they lived. In this section beliefs, tools , metals used, cooking , writting, painting, clothes etc are discussed in detail with a chapter(usually two pages) dedicated to each topic. Each page has many different colorful illustrations for the visual learner which also covers festivals and celebrations. There are plenty of pictures to make your students giggle as they learn about different customs from different cultures. The  book dedicates four pages to the religions of the world which results in a broad overview. Students or the child taught at home can benefit from this book tremendously as it allows them to better understand the diversity of various cultures. The end of the book has a pretty nice chart, entitled ,  peoples of the world . The guide can use the chart to further explain where  people live, the language used, the religion  and currency used. Compliemnt this with a good world map and it will open up the vastness of our world. This is a good book for the early learner to broaden their horizons with. Other books in this series include \\"Houses and Homes\\" and \\"Countries.\\" Recommended for teachers of young children or a parent who likes teaching their own children about life.\\" Recommended for teachers of young children or a parent who likes teaching their own children about life.	2005-02-28
US	49709123	R3VG8KS0H57WFB	0385079796	994528257	Diego Rodriguez de Silva y Velasquez (Art for Children Series)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Presenting Diego Rodriguez de Silva Vasquez	If you have a young child, work with children or care for someone's child you may consider looking into the fine series of art books geared for youngsters by Ernest Raboff. Although the books are childrens art books most people in general  can benefit from the series. This particular book is about one of the great Spanish painters who was the royal court painter  of King Phillip IV. The author,  Ernest Raboff does an excellent job of teaching a young student of art how to examine a piece of art. He begins the book by giving a brief biography of Velasquez so that the student or child  understands the historical relevance of the painter. Raboff in his writting has a significant word or phrase in a different bright color for emphasis. For example, he states that Vaelasquez \\"painting showed both the REALITY and the DREAMS of his times.\\" This emphasis of words allows for futher expalnation of the concepts. Roboff expalins and leads in the examination of the individual paintings or details from a painting  by pointing out who to look at \\" FORM  by  FORM , LINE  by  LINE, and COLOR by  COLOR.\\" He explains how seperate scenes within a painting  can be viewed by relating shapes  and color. Raboff goes on to explain the use of light and how Velasquez was a master of contrast and perfect balance and use of glowing yellow. The author in essence explains how to gaze and have a visual sweep of the painting. Many painting are featured that are housed in the Prado in Madrid, Spain  including the famous  \\"Las Meninas\\" or as it is known in English \\"The Maids of Honor. \\"  The pages in the book vary with text on any given page but usually there is just enough to guide you in the viewing of the painting. There are approximately twenty seven pages so the lesson can be given in one sitting. This book would work well with limited  English language profeciency students. Naturally this book is very beneficial for a young student of art or someone whom you are trying to expose to one of lifes pleasures of expression and one of  it's greatest artists. Great stuff for all but especially the young artist.pleasures of expression and one of  it's greatest artists. Great stuff for all but especially the young artist.	2005-02-26
US	49709123	R1B55JOMYLRA26	0374514275	558260605	A Change of Skin	Books	4	1	2	N	N	It was the Sixties	Carlos Fuentes always entertains his readers, sometimes he is more entertaining than others, unfotunately  this novel falls into the other category as it is not one of his best works but  good nonetheless. However early Fuentes(written in 1967) reveals glimpses of the brilliance that is his mastery of the  written language and knowledge of history and philosophy. Ever the observer of his own novels, often in the form of the unknown narrator, Carlos Fuentes looks upon his written creation from afar like a God overseeing his children. Fuentes invokes his trademark rants about Mexico's modern condition juxtaposed with comparisons to the tragic brilliance of it's past and how this past(the conquered nation) has created a future shrouded in skeptcism of it's rulers and a unknown place in the modern world. The novel is like a road movie where the action and dialogues are between people thrown together by fate , each character  with different baggage  that they want to leave behind in their quest for a new future.  Fuentes uses the characters in the novel to display his knowledge of  European and Mexican history, sharing his viewpoints in the guise of the characters, sometimes advocating a point only to  make the reader think outside of the box. Four people travel in Mexico in a VW for some misadventures.Didn't everyone travel in a VW in the sixties? Franz, the German, allows Fuentes to reveal his thoughts on the holocaust and nazi Germany with flashbacks of Mendelssohn, German expatriates luring in their new found Argentina hideaways with mugs of beer and sausages with mustard  and sauerkraut. His girlfriend  Isabel or Lizzie as she is often called when not referred to as \\"pussycat\\" is the liberated woman who is always looking for something new. The other woman is Elizabeth or Beth who is madly in love with the Mexican  Javier who is to wrapped up in his own unsuccessful life to be bothered with her. Javier is older now and reflecting on his ill fated accomplishments. This cast of bohemian vagabonds are as diverse and unlikely a pairing to be on the road together that one wonders how can they stand each others company. That is the beauty of the writting, it is the perfect avenue for an array of thoughts and musings. They are all on the  road to find their nirvana like many young people did in the sixties so in that regard it is a nice portrait of  life on the road to discovery in the sixties. Carlos Fuentes appears late in the novel as Freddy Lambert, the genius who moves his characters like  puppets on a string through the storied history amidst colorful characters like the Dragoness, Morganna , the White Rabbit and others through  the dark alleys and streets of Mexico for some good laughs and thought provoking literature. Recommended for a portrait of Carlos Fuentes early on in his brilliant career.s cast of bohemian vagabonds are as diverse and unlikely a pairing to be on the road together that one wonders how can they stand each others company. That is the beauty of the writting, it is the perfect avenue for an array of thoughts and musings. They are all on the  road to find their nirvana like many young people did in the sixties so in that regard it is a nice portrait of  life on the road to discovery in the sixties. Carlos Fuentes appears late in the novel as Freddy Lambert, the genius who moves his characters like  puppets on a string through the storied history amidst colorful characters like the Dragoness, Morganna , the White Rabbit and others through  the dark alleys and streets of Mexico for some good laughs and thought provoking literature. Recommended for a portrait of Carlos Fuentes early on in his brilliant career.	2005-02-24
US	49709123	R3TXQIY0B49TAX	0803706251	363552527	The Young Artist	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Recalling the Dutch masters	The story of Adrian the painting apprentice is one that children will need a little help understanding but that is what the guide to a young reader should do. The concept of being true to oneself might not be easily understood or  specifically it's consequences. However,  with  a few comical, distorted faces the young learner will probably understand why some people objected to being painted as they are seen for portraits. This story is a lesson on following your own dream and being true to yourself no matter how great the resistance. The true beauty of this childs book is the delightful pictures that are like mini works of art recalling the Dutch masters. The lighting, the miniscule detail, the shading and brilliantly painted landscapes are geared more for the adult eyes appreciation  but a youngster who is a budding artist will be enthralled with the wonderfully painted pictures. This is one of many beautiful childrens arts books that are written and illustrated by Mr Locker. All ages can enjoy the superb illustrations found in this book.  Recomended  for the young reader  who has an eye for art or the parent or teacher who wants to promote a young artists vistas.	2005-02-24
US	49709123	R1J00DJ6NQ10KH	1564582035	475103608	A Child's Book of Art: Great Pictures - First Words	Books	4	19	21	N	N	Picture is worth a thousand words	An outstanding oversized book for children of all ages but intended for the preschool to grade 3 set. A very interesting format is used where the art picture is the door to opening a dialogue with your young one . A broader concept like wild animals will be on a page with various paintings of the chosen represenatives of the animal kingdom. The magic of art as seen through a childs eyes can also  open an adults eyes to new perspectives. The subjects chosen are basic but the art work is by some of the worlds masters including Michaelangelo, Toulouse-Lautrec, Monet,<br /><br />Van Dyck, Rousseau, Durer, Renoir,Van Gogh, Picasso, Rivera and Escher amongst others. There are annonymous paintings and others attributed to codices and manuscripts  as well as  ethnic pieces from different distant cultures for the child to ponder. The book is such that it can be shown and with some help a young one can further explore the details of a piece of art by holding the book together. The pictures are large enough but not to the point where the book is cumbersome. I only had one little problem with this childs primer to art and first words. Under the title \\"Things To Do\\" the author has chosen, reading, writing, drawing and painting , all  noble ventures but missing the essence of youth, playing. I suppose the author is trying to  assist the reader in developing the more refined child , however,  playing is the essence of a childs world. To her credit she does dedicate a section to play,  although the chosen paintings don't really reflect enough movement that a bundle of kinetic energy can relate to. Motionless portraits of  women playing cards in the 1600's or an angel playing guitar are hardly how children relate to playing but I suppose if you're trying to instill certain  cerebric qualities in your child it works. Al in all it is a fine book to help you in opening your childs eyes to art. The author uses only a word or phrase by a painting but concludes her book with a message under  the title A Time For Peace with  the painting \\"Peaceable Kingdom\\" by Edward Hicks, The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them. Isaiah 11:6the title A Time For Peace with  the painting \\"Peaceable Kingdom\\" by Edward Hicks, The wolf also shall dwell with the lamb, and the leopard shall lie down with the kid; and the calf and the young lion and the fatling together; and a little child shall lead them. Isaiah 11:6	2005-02-23
US	49709123	RWU6T16EVFOB2	0761135200	213513079	The Tour de France Companion: A Nuts, Bolts & Spokes Guide to the Greatest Race in the World	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Rolling with Roll	Whether you are new to cycling or a veteran of the road, there is something for everyone here to digest. Bob Roll, the gap-toothed comedic sidekick to the more serious Phil Ligget on the outstanding  OLN broadcast that cyclists look forward to every July is almost as  entertaining in print  as he is on television. This companion to the Tour de France can be enjoyed anytime of the  year (for that spring motivation?)but obviously is best for TDF viewing. The companion was made specifically for the 2004 edition of cyclings greatest event but is full of so much history and tid bits of information that it can digested anytime. For the novice it is indespensible because it explains all the nuances that might otherwise go unnoticed. Any cyclist knows how annoying it can be to try and explain the peleton  and other strategies during the race. We've all heard the words, \\" I don't know why he just doesn't go ahead and pass the other rider.\\" The strategies are all explained and put in historical context, complete with humorous anecdotes and little known facts. The book is dedicated to one of the  recent heroes but tragic figures of cycling, Marco Pantini, the diminutive giant who demonstrated to the world that he was the premier lithe and sinewy climber affectionally known as \\"The Pirate.\\" The book hails the exploits  of all the great riders of the past and present, the heartbreak and the heartbreakers, the riding asssassins and their victims. This is the everymans companion to one of the worlds greatest events and spectacles. The now defunct champion U.S Postal Team complete roster reflects the international nature of this sport and is featured here. All the major climbs, the meat and potatoes, heart and soul that seperates the pretenders from the contenders for the final victory lap on the Champs-Elysees are featured with descriptions etc. including the legendary grade 7.9 percent Alped'Huez that tortures all who attempt to snatch TDF victory in the mountains. All the head games are explained, the psychological chess matches between teams and individuals are expounded upon. There is also a nice historical  time line of events in the TDF and a variety of records set in various categories for those inclined to factoids. All those who have worn the yellow jersey, from  the first TDF's winner Garin in 1903 to Lance Armstrong in 2003 tying the record for consecutive victories, it is all here for you to check out. You can even ink in Armstrong as the all time record setter with his unprecedented sixth consecutive victory as the  2004  winner ! As stated before, it was intended for the 2004 event but was written in such a manner that it will serve you well for future events too. If Lance Armstrong is all you know about the TDF and you're into cycling  than you need this book.  A must for the novice and a neccessary addition for the complete cycling aficionados library.ames are explained, the psychological chess matches between teams and individuals are expounded upon. There is also a nice historical  time line of events in the TDF and a variety of records set in various categories for those inclined to factoids. All those who have worn the yellow jersey, from  the first TDF's winner Garin in 1903 to Lance Armstrong in 2003 tying the record for consecutive victories, it is all here for you to check out. You can even ink in Armstrong as the all time record setter with his unprecedented sixth consecutive victory as the  2004  winner ! As stated before, it was intended for the 2004 event but was written in such a manner that it will serve you well for future events too. If Lance Armstrong is all you know about the TDF and you're into cycling  than you need this book.  A must for the novice and a neccessary addition for the complete cycling aficionados library.	2005-02-23
US	49709123	R2I70CQPEJOT6Y	0385508719	254491312	Every Second Counts	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Count your blessings by seconds	I'm a huge fan of Lance and his accomplishments in spite of  the seemingly  impossible odds. That said, there is a bit of a bias in my perspective. I read this book during his record setting sixth TDF victory and at the beginning of  a personally difficult time in my life. The title of the book seemed to have been magnified  July 5th when after doing an afternoon ride I settled in for a few chapters. My cell phone rang and a relative informed me my uncle, an avid cyclist who at age 70 competed and won  RAAM(Race Across America)in the masters team division had suddenly died. The life lessons in the title are reflected throughout the book. Other cyclists will especially relate to the bike stories, cancer victims and those who are affected by  their loved ones suffering will find hope in the power of one survivors story. The life anecdotes, tales of the road with Carmichael, Hincapie, Heras and others, including the outrageous Robin Williams and reflections on life to the backdrop  to one of the most difficult endurance events a human being can achieve are awesome.  The shortcomings of Lance the human being make the achievements of overcoming cancer and winning the TDF even more real . This is an uplifting book, an easy read and a book about the power of the  human  spirit. Pick up this book, fight your own battles with dignity, support the Lance Armstrong Foundation(cancer research), wear your yellow bracelet proudly, crank a few miles and when you're out on the road you'll remember what  Lance says about riding , \\"that it makes me feel alive\\" because every second really does count. This book is a good source of inspiration.	2005-02-22
US	49709123	RGLF582MN7C1F	0851705162	641511641	Mexican Cinema	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Film Industry down south	An absolutely fascinating and comprehensive exploration of Mexican cinema from it's inception worthy of any  International film buffs library. The book is a bit scholary in parts but overall it is not difficult to follow although by the very nature of the subject a bit esoteric. Let's face it, most Americans have never heard of most of the films discussed or the history of the development of film in Mexico. The book is well written and researched meticulously. The organization of the book is very good and helps the reader understand methodically how Mexico came to have one of the vital cinema machines in Latin America. The contributors to this book are some of the best writers and film historians Mexico has produced. Included is social critic Carlos Monsivais who writes several essays with his unique insights into Mexican culture. Other notable contributors include Paulo Antonio Paranagud, Ana M. Lopez and Tomas Perez Turrent. The essays are extremely interesting with provocative titles like &quot;Ten Reasons to Love or Hate Mexican Cinema&quot; and  &quot;All the People Came and Did Not Fit onto the Screen.&quot; The book begins with a chronicle of events in Mexico paralled by  events in cinema for background information. This is like a brief Mexican history with cinema side notes. The impact of the Mexican Revolution is fully chronicled. Beginning with the first movies, which were documentaries, the book then delves full on into the History, progressing with the silent cinema, the origins of sound cinema and the renovation of movies in Mexico. The book continues with explorations of the studios,  early major movies(&quot;Rancho Grande&quot;), the comedies(Cantinflas, Tin Tan etc), heartthrobs(Maria Felix,Dolores Del Rio, Katy Hurtado, Pedro Armendariz, Pedro Infante etc.) and the reflection of the Mexican spirit and it's monster shadow north of the border in image-making Hollywood. The various genres of film are examined and an outstanding look at some of the most important directors including Emilio &quot;El Indio&quot; Fernandez, Roberto Gavaldon, Luis Bunuel, Leduc, Ripstein and others. The various movies that had societal clout are put under the microscope with discussion on the their impact. There are some beautiful black and white photographs that are essentially stills from the major motion pictures. The Golden Age of Mexican Cinema( cinematographer Gabriel Figueroa is thoroughly examined.  Also included is a fillm dictionary with descriptions and details on some of the major movies(150) dating back to 1919 and concluding with several 1994 productions. There is also data on the film-makers which includes the major actors and actresses with short biographies and film credits.A superb book that is good reading especially if you have interest in the movies of Mexico that is valuable after intial reading for reference. This is a masterful examination of Mexico's political, social and cultural history in the twentieth century and how it relates to film. Highly recommended for International film buffs or people interested in the movies of Mexico.important directors including Emilio &quot;El Indio&quot; Fernandez, Roberto Gavaldon, Luis Bunuel, Leduc, Ripstein and others. The various movies that had societal clout are put under the microscope with discussion on the their impact. There are some beautiful black and white photographs that are essentially stills from the major motion pictures. The Golden Age of Mexican Cinema( cinematographer Gabriel Figueroa is thoroughly examined.  Also included is a fillm dictionary with descriptions and details on some of the major movies(150) dating back to 1919 and concluding with several 1994 productions. There is also data on the film-makers which includes the major actors and actresses with short biographies and film credits.A superb book that is good reading especially if you have interest in the movies of Mexico that is valuable after intial reading for reference. This is a masterful examination of Mexico's political, social and cultural history in the twentieth century and how it relates to film. Highly recommended for International film buffs or people interested in the movies of Mexico.	2004-06-29
US	49709123	R3IGN20FAA6JXW	0393977714	1368057	Western Civilizations	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Good historical reference material	There is good reason for this book being in it's fourteenth edition; it is comprehensive, balanced ,concise not overly laborious reading and a flat out good history book.  I have a previous edition that I used to supplement  teaching  my students with and continue to use when helping my high school age son. The contributors are brainiacs, we're talking experts in their fields too.  A couple of case in points, Lerner received his PH. D. from Princeton and is a professor who has authored several books. Meacham did his undergraduate work at Yale before doing his graduate work at Cambridge and Harvard.  The book takes blocks of time like the Age of Absolutism, Intellectual Revolutions of the Seventeenth and Eighteenth Centuries, The French Revolution and all the major developments of Western Civilization. There is just enough information to go in depth but not feel like you are overburdened with data. The modern world is also explored and contemporary Western Civilizations. There are also many  colorful maps, pictures and illustrations to supplement the writing and to enhance the learning experience. A very helpful feature is subject titles along the sides of the paragraphs that correspond to the detailed  information. This is helpful when you are seeking specific information on a subject and do not want to read pages and pages of information to find your facts. I would highly recommend this book to any student of history or teacher of advanced middle school or high school courses on world history.	2004-06-11
US	49709123	RHKU6Q443ROC8	0944551009	662251433	Union of Eagles: El Paso-Juarez	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Yesterday and tommorrow	Since so few details are available here for this book I will try to make it's contents known for someone. First of all, it is a big oversized book, a coffee table type book with many many superb photographs in splendid color and accompanying text to further illustrate the facts about these two border cities. El Paso and Ciudad Juarez are on different sides of the border, each city  a part of another state and country but  they share more than the frontera(border) . Both cities share a cultural and historical heritage that dates back centuries and has been  transformed in modern times  into a sort of international mega city that is linked economically as well. It seems many United States citizens of Mexican desent in the southwest have relatives who live or have lived in  El Paso or as it was known Paso del Norte(Passage to the North). The book begins by explaining the origins of the contemporary name for El Paso dating back toto the explorer Juan de Onate claiming the upper Rio Grande for King Phillip II of Spain in 1598 and naming the land El Paso del Rio del Norte(The Pass of The River of the North). The book goes on to explain the transformation of the name and land with the treaty of Guadalupe Hidalgo in 1848(where the US gained vast Mexican lands, including the states of California, Texas, Colorado, Arizona and parts of others like Nevada). The Rio Grande or Rio Bravo as it is known in Mexico became the seperation point of what was once one city into two distinguishable cities. The Mexican side becme known as El Paso del Norte and was changed in 1888 to honor the &quot;Abraham Linclon&quot; of Mexico, Benito Juarez. The American side was first known only as &quot;The Post Opposite El Paso, Mexico&quot; since it was a military post and was not incorporated officially until 1873. Further history is explained including the introduction of the railroad and the opening up of trade and the mass immigration that continues to this day. The lavish book presents various topics  and clearly demonstrates the common links these two rapidly growing cities have. At the time of publication(1987) the two cities populations combined made them the two biggest(side by side) international cities in the world. There is lots of history in this book that shows the intertwined relationships of these twin cities. Some of the reading is a little dry but this is one of those books that if the subject matter doesn't interest you  it can be skipped over  and the continuity is hardly affected. The photographs are definitely one the highlights of this book and if you have roots in either of these two cities than you will want to see them. The large photographs capture the essence of the book. The pictures are very beautiful as it relates to the humanity that is seperated by a line of demarcation that cannot erase the cultural bindings. The differences along the border are vast but the similarites are just as impressive. A very nice book that gives a candid portrayl of this international community.topics  and clearly demonstrates the common links these two rapidly growing cities have. At the time of publication(1987) the two cities populations combined made them the two biggest(side by side) international cities in the world. There is lots of history in this book that shows the intertwined relationships of these twin cities. Some of the reading is a little dry but this is one of those books that if the subject matter doesn't interest you  it can be skipped over  and the continuity is hardly affected. The photographs are definitely one the highlights of this book and if you have roots in either of these two cities than you will want to see them. The large photographs capture the essence of the book. The pictures are very beautiful as it relates to the humanity that is seperated by a line of demarcation that cannot erase the cultural bindings. The differences along the border are vast but the similarites are just as impressive. A very nice book that gives a candid portrayl of this international community.	2004-02-10
US	49709123	ROIT9DT61HHRI	0826315518	946210194	Man on Fire / Luis Jimnez / El hombre en llamas	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Looking back and looking forward	This is a beautiful book that is a cataloque published in conjunction with an exhibition entitled &quot;Man on Fire. Luis Jimenez.&quot; The exhibit was organized by the The Albuquerque Museum in 1994. The text that accomapanies the magnificent illustrations and sculptures in different media is highly informative and gives insight into this artist from El Paso, Texas. There are several essays by different people, all of which are excellent, but the one that is probably the most interesting is the perspective by writer Rudolfo Anaya who is probably best known for his quintessential  Chicano novel entitled &quot;Bless Me Ultima.&quot; His perspective is one that reflects the imagery of the artist in a southwest fashion that is steeped in a heritage that dates back to the myths of the Americas,  like a feathered Quetzalcoatl that continues to flow back and forth across the frontera(border) in the spirit of old Mexico. Of even more interest is the written word by the artist himself in which he describes &quot;The Process of Developing a Sculpture.&quot; Not only does he explain the process but throughout the book  but there are a number of drawings, usually colored pencil on paper but many times ballpoint pen on cardboard, crayon on paper, graphite on paper, etchings or watercolor  and ink on paper in which you see the beginnings of what will become public art in vibrant colors in larger than life fiberglass sculptures. There are also several lithographs included.  The studies for his fiberglass masterpieces are works of art themselves. The book is a bilingual text, with Spanish and English language right next to each other for easy reference. The book is a sort of retrospective that captures the artists early years of development up to the present where his works are  featured in major cities and museums. Years ago I first became acquainted with his works when I saw his alligators sculpture in downtown El Paso in San Jacinto Plaza or as it commonly known , Plaza De Los Lagartos(Alligator Plaza). This was of particular interest to me because I remember as a young kid seeing the live alligators in the plaza, then the removal  of  the alligators and eventually the installation of the sculpture in the early 1990's. His monumental works can be seen in many different locations such as the Denver International Airport where his &quot;Denver Mustang&quot; greets visitors, The &quot;Southwest Pieta&quot; of Albuquerque, New Mexico, that was not without controversy before settling into a more &quot;Mexican &quot; section of town and locally(San Diego) the &quot;The San Diego Fountain,&quot; with it's post modern design and marine life panels in newly refurbished historical Horton Plaza. Prestigous museums like the The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, The Smithsonian in Washington DC  and The Long Beach Musem of Art are just several of the many museums that house Luis Jimenez pieces of art. As mentioned his works are featured in several museums as permanent pieces in various media including several bronze outdoor pieces and of course his unique fiberglass work. His fiberglass pieces are instanly identifiable for their briliance and radiant color schemes that reflect the spirit of the southwest. If there is not enough information here in customer reviews than do a search to see some of the images created by Luis Jimenez, they are absolutely amazing  and breathtaking. After seeing some his works you  will want to get this book ,unless of course you can afford one  of his pieces. If you enjoy art books than this is one to look for and add to your collection. Recommended for southwest art book collectors.Lagartos(Alligator Plaza). This was of particular interest to me because I remember as a young kid seeing the live alligators in the plaza, then the removal  of  the alligators and eventually the installation of the sculpture in the early 1990's. His monumental works can be seen in many different locations such as the Denver International Airport where his &quot;Denver Mustang&quot; greets visitors, The &quot;Southwest Pieta&quot; of Albuquerque, New Mexico, that was not without controversy before settling into a more &quot;Mexican &quot; section of town and locally(San Diego) the &quot;The San Diego Fountain,&quot; with it's post modern design and marine life panels in newly refurbished historical Horton Plaza. Prestigous museums like the The Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, The Smithsonian in Washington DC  and The Long Beach Musem of Art are just several of the many museums that house Luis Jimenez pieces of art. As mentioned his works are featured in several museums as permanent pieces in various media including several bronze outdoor pieces and of course his unique fiberglass work. His fiberglass pieces are instanly identifiable for their briliance and radiant color schemes that reflect the spirit of the southwest. If there is not enough information here in customer reviews than do a search to see some of the images created by Luis Jimenez, they are absolutely amazing  and breathtaking. After seeing some his works you  will want to get this book ,unless of course you can afford one  of his pieces. If you enjoy art books than this is one to look for and add to your collection. Recommended for southwest art book collectors.	2004-02-09
US	49709123	R2AC2VVVEBUMEG	0670031364	349285626	A Love Supreme: The Story of John Coltrane's Signature Album	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A &quot;companion &quot; to the music	I'll try to keeep this simple because the editorial reviews and the various opinions expressed , most notably by Rich Fontana and one &quot;ny metropolitan reader &quot; are very good. I looked forward to reading this book when there was just the buzz about the author of &quot;Kind of Blue&quot; was writing a book on the Coltrane session for &quot;A Love Supreme ; &quot; unfortunately the hard cover price  shut me out. When the paperback version came out I snatched it up and read it very quickly(an easy read) and was pleased but not overly impressed with it's content. The actual recording session was short so that probably accounts for so little about the actual recording. Most of the book is devoted to anecdotes,  opinions by his son Ravi and other musicians, time shifting to different pivotal moments in Trane's career that relates &quot;how&quot; the sessions came to be. It is more of a mini biography and the cultural circumstances leading up to the recording. If you have read about Trane before there is very little new information but for any fan of Trane it is still entertaining  and will undoubedtly  get you to break out your &quot;A Love Supreme &quot; disc again. It is an interesting book because Trane presents an interesting subject. This is highly recommended if you are new to John Coltrane. The hand written  original liner notes  give deeper meanig to the words that would grace his recording.The photographs are very good,  including some I've never seen  that help recreate the portrait of the legendary  jazz artist known as Trane . Any fan will enjoy the book and looking over the career  and sessions that produced one of the all time jazz classics. Buy this book if you're a jazz fan but more importantly listen to &quot;A Love Supreme&quot;( and read the liner notes by J.C.) again and again.	2004-01-15
US	49709123	R1O6T8HPLDSJZA	0831717556	26080752	Frida Kahlo	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Frida's diverse lifetime works	English author and head of the Education Section of the Walker Art Gallery in Liverpool, England did his homework and compiled some lovely plates not found in other Frida Kahlo books. The accompanying text in this oversized book is broken up into three sections that represent Frida's various art periods. The extensive introduction has the most information as he basically runs down the (low)highlights of Frida's tumultous life beginning with her early(polio) health problems, her traumatic accident, her marriages to Mexican muralist Diego Rivera, her lesbian affairs, her straight affairs, her deterioating health and ultimately, her death. Beginning with the section on Self Portraits we see many of her known and some lesser known photographs of her life and art pieces from private collections that apparently haven't made the exhibition rounds very much. Also included in this section are portraits of other people. These portraits cover three decades, beginning in the 1920's and extending to the 1950's. The section entitled Still Life is interesting because there are many included and since she seems to be most known for her self portraits it is nice to see this other side of the artist. Her still life work runs the gamut from the oridinary to the exquisite both in subject matter and presentation. Again the period covered is thesame decades previously mentioned but there are elements of her surreal period throughout. The final section is entitled Marginality and Modernism, it covers the same time periods but relies mostly on the 1930's and 1940's. Within this section many of her most &quot;out there&quot; pieces are included that some art critics labeled her  Surrealism period. One of my personal favorites that I had the honor of seeing in an exhibition  aa few years ago is included entitled &quot;The Love Embrace of the Universe, the Earth(Mexico), Diego, Me, and Senor Xolotl,&quot; 1949. This is a magnificent  oil on masonite from the Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection. Frida is holding Diego like a baby while she and their dog are embraced by several hands representing  the unknown universe with spacey visual representation in the form of clouds and the red planet split with earth tones and a dark night vision of the universe on the other half of the canvas  that engulfs them surrounded by cactus motiffs with dangling roots. My description does no justice to this superb piece of art; you have to see it for yourself. I guess some people cut up a book like this to mount the pictures in small frames but I like to look at the totality of the book, without missing pages. There are 80 large-scale full-color plates for your enjoyment plus many  black and white photographs of her and Diego. The fact that the pictures are so large is one of best things about this book as you can see the details of the pieces. A perfect book for anyone just starting out and getting aquainted with the works(she produced over 140 pieces) of Frida or for any level of interest. This  is a great book for anyone who collects books on the art of Frida Kahlo, a compliment to any art book collection by one of the most important artists to emerge from Mexico.ion. Frida is holding Diego like a baby while she and their dog are embraced by several hands representing  the unknown universe with spacey visual representation in the form of clouds and the red planet split with earth tones and a dark night vision of the universe on the other half of the canvas  that engulfs them surrounded by cactus motiffs with dangling roots. My description does no justice to this superb piece of art; you have to see it for yourself. I guess some people cut up a book like this to mount the pictures in small frames but I like to look at the totality of the book, without missing pages. There are 80 large-scale full-color plates for your enjoyment plus many  black and white photographs of her and Diego. The fact that the pictures are so large is one of best things about this book as you can see the details of the pieces. A perfect book for anyone just starting out and getting aquainted with the works(she produced over 140 pieces) of Frida or for any level of interest. This  is a great book for anyone who collects books on the art of Frida Kahlo, a compliment to any art book collection by one of the most important artists to emerge from Mexico.	2004-01-09
US	49709123	R30EU37Y61QL60	1560982063	714879002	Crosscurrents of Modernism: Four Latin American Pioneers (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	&quot;The heart is an eye&quot;	Released by the Smithsonian Institution this book is the catalog  that was used in an exhibition of the same name, organized by the Hirshhorn Museum and Sculpture Garden, that was on view in the summer of 1992. Featuring the works of Diego Rivera, Joaquin Torres-Garcia, Matta and Wilfredo Lam,  the oversized book is a bilingual text that pays homage to these Latin American pioneers. The essay by Octavio Paz entitled &quot;La Casa de la Mirada&quot;(The House of Glances) is a particularly illuminating poem written for the Chilean Surrealist Roberto Matta. In this poem Paz uses his eloquent prose to describe the innner workings of the mind, the creative process and the visions within. Paz uses analogies to illustrate his thoughts, creates similarties in unorthodox ways, drawing compelling comparisons like saying that the &quot;hand has five eyes&quot; and how we &quot;create in order to see.&quot; It is a moving piece of poetry where Paz uses imagery to paint his own canvas. The poem is worth the price of the book  and is one to read over and over. The discussions by the other authors are very satisfying in that they probe and express ideas and much like art itself, invent and reinvent as well as look at the ordinary from an extraordinary perspective. The art itself featured has spiritual overtones and asthetic beauty that is linked to their respective cultural roots. Although  some of the art does not really appeal to me I respect it because of the metaphysical transcendence that explores the universal themes of chaos, harmony, human figures, animals  and figurative explorations of African art and pre-Columbian Art into a modern sythesis. There are enough interesting pieces in the book  to make it worthwhile but really the essays are what elevate this book beyond the ordinary catalog. If you are into Latin American art than this book is is for you since it features four of the giants from the early part of the 20th century. Recomended for lovers of art. &quot;Create in order to see.&quot;in order to see.&quot;	2004-01-06
US	49709123	R2F0GQ4YTW0IE7	9706610456	624410959	MIS Vivencias Con Jose Alfredo Jimenez: Anecdotas Desconocidas, La Verdadera Historia de Sus Canciones, Una Fiel Aproximacion Al Genial Compositor (Serie Iztapalapa, Texto y Contexto)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Recuerdos y momentos con El Rey	Este libro ,escrito por el autor  y licenciado Jose Azanza Jimenez, quien fue sobrino de El Rey, el gran compositor Mexicano Jose Alfredo Jimenez, tiene muchas anecdotas y vivencias que es util para entender la vida de El Rey. Tambien los hijos de Jose Ajfredo, especialmente Paloma Jimenez Galvez presentan sus recuerdos de un hombre que fue tan grande en la vida como en la muerte. Lo interesante es que hay muchos rumores y  cuentos falsos sobre muchas cosas sobre su vida. Este libro quieta las historias falsos y endereza los malentendidos. Especialmente hay conceptos erroneos sobre las canciones que El Rey escribio sobre sus intententos y las origines de sus canciones . Estas son las cosas de leyenda pero su nieto Jose Azanza Jimenez escribe la verdad sobre las origines de muchas canciones. El estilo en que esta escrito es facil para entender y sigue la vida con anecdotas rodeada quarenta uno de sus mas famosos canciones. Comenzando con su nacimiento en el ano 1926 en la ciudad de Dolores Hidalgo en su querido Guanajuato seguimos la celebre vida de este grande entre hombres de Mexico. Conocemos un poquito de sus anos como joven y sus aspiraciones de ser futbolista como portero(era  mucho mas delgado) y como comenzo su carrera de compositor y cantante. Hay muchos fotos pero no son de gran calidad y todos son en  blanco y negro. Lo que si son es muy interesante por que muchos son raros y vienen de los archivos de su familia. Hay uno de Jose Alfredo a los ocho anos vestido de charro en  que se nota las caracteristicas que iban a dominar su vida como adulto. En tipico estilo Mexicano hay fotos de su tumba y tambien de la gente en las calles mientras cargaron en hombros El Rey a su final descanso en el panteon de Salamanca en el ano 1973. Hay varios anecdotas sobre sus amores y toda la gente que fue parte su vida como Miguel Aceves Mejia, Amalia Mendoza , Lucha Villa y su gran amigo Mario Molina Montes entre otros. En su epoca conocio a todos los grandes de Mexico, especialmente sus interpretes como Pedro Infante y Jorge Negrette. Para que entiendes mejor como esta lleno de anecdotas te voy a illustrar una sobre la cancion &quot;Ella.&quot; La cancion &quot;Ella&quot; fue la cancion preferida de Jose Alfredo y la musa de la cancion fue uno de sus (mil) amores , Cristina. Anos despues la gran actriz Mexicana, Maria Felix, en una entrevista con Jacobo Zabludovsky espreso que ella fue el motivo de inspiracion de &quot;Ella.&quot; El autor dice que &quot;La Dona,&quot; Maria Felix que en esa epoca fue una gran estrella NO era la inspiracion por que Jose Alfredo apenas tenia &quot;23 anos y sobrevivia de mesero y ni en sus suenos hubiera cansado  de rogarle a la Dona&quot;! Anos despues SI le composito una cancion a la Dona,  Maria Felix con el titulo de &quot;Que Digan Maria...Maria..Maria. El autor sigue con la tema de Maria Felix(Y Agustin Lara) para contarnos un relato entre Jose Alfredo Y Agustin Lara en la casa del maestro donde Lara le da una hermosa pistola de calibre 45 como regalo a Jose Alfredo mientras le da una mas pequeno  a otro compositor de menos calibre(25) porque el anonimo mencionado tenia menos obras. El libro esta lleno de historias bonitas como estas y  ilumina la vida de Jose Alfredo Jimenez. Termine este libro en un reciente viaje a Mexico y fue un perfecto companero abajo de un palapa en la sombra con una vista hermosa de la Bahia de Banderas. Mientras estaba leyendo las letras de sus canciones podia oir El Rey cantar en su voz inolvidable. Si quieres entender la vida de Jose Alfredo , sus motivos y sus amores  compra este libro porque te va gustar este libro. Leer este libro es conocer El Rey de la cancion de su pueblo, su enorme humilde grandeza y su enorme definicion artistica mejor, no nomas como compositor pero mas bien como humano.  Que sique siendo El Rey! Que Dios lo Bendiga !ialmente sus interpretes como Pedro Infante y Jorge Negrette. Para que entiendes mejor como esta lleno de anecdotas te voy a illustrar una sobre la cancion &quot;Ella.&quot; La cancion &quot;Ella&quot; fue la cancion preferida de Jose Alfredo y la musa de la cancion fue uno de sus (mil) amores , Cristina. Anos despues la gran actriz Mexicana, Maria Felix, en una entrevista con Jacobo Zabludovsky espreso que ella fue el motivo de inspiracion de &quot;Ella.&quot; El autor dice que &quot;La Dona,&quot; Maria Felix que en esa epoca fue una gran estrella NO era la inspiracion por que Jose Alfredo apenas tenia &quot;23 anos y sobrevivia de mesero y ni en sus suenos hubiera cansado  de rogarle a la Dona&quot;! Anos despues SI le composito una cancion a la Dona,  Maria Felix con el titulo de &quot;Que Digan Maria...Maria..Maria. El autor sigue con la tema de Maria Felix(Y Agustin Lara) para contarnos un relato entre Jose Alfredo Y Agustin Lara en la casa del maestro donde Lara le da una hermosa pistola de calibre 45 como regalo a Jose Alfredo mientras le da una mas pequeno  a otro compositor de menos calibre(25) porque el anonimo mencionado tenia menos obras. El libro esta lleno de historias bonitas como estas y  ilumina la vida de Jose Alfredo Jimenez. Termine este libro en un reciente viaje a Mexico y fue un perfecto companero abajo de un palapa en la sombra con una vista hermosa de la Bahia de Banderas. Mientras estaba leyendo las letras de sus canciones podia oir El Rey cantar en su voz inolvidable. Si quieres entender la vida de Jose Alfredo , sus motivos y sus amores  compra este libro porque te va gustar este libro. Leer este libro es conocer El Rey de la cancion de su pueblo, su enorme humilde grandeza y su enorme definicion artistica mejor, no nomas como compositor pero mas bien como humano.  Que sique siendo El Rey! Que Dios lo Bendiga !	2003-12-09
US	49709123	RJHQ5OTQHIKF	0333276116	163615079	Treasures of Ancient America	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Ancient crafsmanship and skill	If you happen upon this page it is probably because you are interested in Pre-Columbian Art. If you can locate this book it is highly recommended for the ancient art enthuisiast. It is an outstanding high quality book made of thick  paper stock with beautiful photographs and illustrations. Both the black and white and color photographs of the art pieces are outstanding. The book discusses the aboriginal American art that existed prior to the onslought of european culture. The person responsible for the text is S.K Lothrop, who has contributed and written many good books on the ancient world of the Americas. The period covered is about 2500 years , from 1000B.C. to 1500 A.D. The looting of America(removing the gold and silver  art pieces to be melted ) undoubtedly destroyed some pieces forever but there are plenty in this book to atest to the beauty in craftsmanship. The book does not purport to be a history of art but rather a presentation of one of a kind objects that are now housed in museums and private collections worldwide. One of the interesting aspects of this book is the symilarity between the cultures art that was spread from central Mexico, through Central America and into the northern Andes. The art reflects the diverse cultures that were not poitically aligned of the Aztecs, Mayas and Olmecs of Mexico, to a lesser extent from El Salvador, Panama  and Honduras, the Mochica of Peru,  and the site of Tiahuanaco located on the Bolivian side of Lake Titicaca(go ahead laugh, my students would always do likewise at the mear mention) provide some exceptional examples of the indigenous art without borders. If you are interested in something other than the typical  Pre- Columbian objects found, that usually emphasize Mexico, than you will enjoy seeing the art from throughout the Americas. There is a tremendous collection of bird feathered artifacts, pottery, metal, both gold and silver, jade,  wood  and spectacular weavings of textiles that are rarely seen . This book is oversized  and originally published in 1964 in Switzerland and was released in the United States in 1979. The binding  and printing is from Switzerland and as stated  before is of outstanding quality. This is a  good collectors book for the person who appreciates ancient indigenous art, that shows the exotic and artistic integrity of cultures uninfluenced by European values, than this book will satisfy you for many years to come.book is oversized  and originally published in 1964 in Switzerland and was released in the United States in 1979. The binding  and printing is from Switzerland and as stated  before is of outstanding quality. This is a  good collectors book for the person who appreciates ancient indigenous art, that shows the exotic and artistic integrity of cultures uninfluenced by European values, than this book will satisfy you for many years to come.	2003-11-05
US	49709123	R2RZ2NZ6Y95NL1	1858287332	131547125	Latin 100 Essential CDs: The Rough Guide	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Great things come in small packages	Having a somewhat extensive Latin music collection that includes,45's, 78's, lp's(yes, I can and do still play them), some tapes, both cassette and reel to reel and into the modern  digital era formats, I was more than curious to see what was considered &quot;essential.&quot; The author, Sue Steward, who also wrote &quot;Salsa, Musical Heartbeat of America,&quot; gives a bit  of a disclaimer in the acknowledgement by stating the difficulty in selecting 100 essential discs among the thousnds of choices covering so many decades and so many countries aand varied genres. The result is a book that draws heavily on salsa( remember the title of her book) but the contributing specialists reviews of other styles of Latin music gives the book a pretty good balance. The terrific thing is the convenience of this handy mini- pocket book that can fit into the pocket of a mans shirt pocket! You can take this book anywhere and read it anytime to get information on your &quot;unknown discovery&quot; or to read about one of your favorite discs. Each disc is very professionally and competently reviewed. Each review is about two pages and  besides the actual music information there are complete biographical backgrounds on the artists, the development of the musical style, including influences  and assorted interesting side notes. Since the book is limited to 100 cd's at the end of the review there are a few suggestions for further exploration of either the artist or similar artists within the genre. There is lots to discover in this mini-book. This is a good book for the person looking for some of the best Latin muisc ever, whether the shopping is virtual or real this book will inform  and help you make a better decision on your next selection. I have enjoyed reading this book  and keep it handy when it comes time to add a new disc to the collection. Curiously I did find a few personal &quot;gems&quot; missing but why complain  if what you get in return is learning about what you haven't heard. The musical years covered spans many decades and the styles range from bossa nova to cumbias, salsa to boleros, rocnEspanol to merengue, Latin jazz to Cuban, Tango to folkloric and just about everything else considered Latin. This is a great little book for a great little price. The price is absolutely right  and you'll have change from that new colorful twenty to buy your new &quot;discovery&quot; cd in Latin music. There is a small section on websites suggested to buy the discs,which includes Amazon with as Sue Steward says, &quot;seemingly bottomless well of stock.&quot;'t heard. The musical years covered spans many decades and the styles range from bossa nova to cumbias, salsa to boleros, rocnEspanol to merengue, Latin jazz to Cuban, Tango to folkloric and just about everything else considered Latin. This is a great little book for a great little price. The price is absolutely right  and you'll have change from that new colorful twenty to buy your new &quot;discovery&quot; cd in Latin music. There is a small section on websites suggested to buy the discs,which includes Amazon with as Sue Steward says, &quot;seemingly bottomless well of stock.&quot;	2003-10-23
US	49709123	R3MECAV07DEDQD	0312291078	185399033	In the Casa Azul: A Novel of Revolution and Betrayal	Books	3	5	9	N	N	Trotsky's &quot;diary&quot; in Coyoacan	As time is precious, this book was a bit  of a dissapointment but is saved by the sometimes brilliant passages. The problem is that there were not enough of them. The book is interesting as a historical novel but is more of a fictionalized novel set to a historical background. Take a couple of charismatic characters, Frida Kahlo and Leon Trotsky , and you have enough material to let  your imagination go wild amidst the true to life affair that existed between them. The book is told in a jumping around style, flashbacks  and stories told drawing on &quot;diaries&quot; amd memories of different characters who in this novel rubbed elbows with El Viejo(The Old Man)  and somewhat less with Frida. This book deals primarily with Trotsky and his own personal hell, as he is in hiding in Mexico in a paranoid world where potentially everyone is out to kill him and  one man eventually does with an ice pick(yes, we get to go into the muderers mind) in his brain. Another reason I was dissapointed was because I thought the book might be more about Frida but it is clearly Trotsky's stage and Frida is just a player in this  passion play. An interesting side note is all this passion for a world vision that is all but extinct now with only a few hanger on nations devoted to Communism makes this book seem like some type of glimpse into the early twentieth century but it may as well have been five thousand years ago. If you are looking for what went on in the Casa Azul in Coyoacan look elsewhere because this novel is heavy on the Trotsky memories of  his days before he even got to Mexico. So is it worth your time? Your time might be better spent elsewhere but if you like hearing about kulaks, comrades, Bolsheviks, Moscow, the Kremlin, the Ukraine, Stalin and of course, Trotsky, than you might enjoy this book. Myself I was looking for more Diego and Frida and came up with just a few nibbles. There are plenty of broad strokes of Russian history, vignettes into revolution  and assassinations but not enough of The Casa Azul.ns but not enough of The Casa Azul.	2003-10-22
US	49709123	ROG69JFFQS2W9	9706611428	167936947	Jorge Negrete	Books	4	2	2	N	N	La breve vida de Jorge Negrete	Si te gusta una breve biografia de uno de los idolos de Mexico, tan famoso por su cantar como sus acuaciones en el cinema Mexicano entonces este libro es para ti. La autora,  Carmen Barajas Sandoval fue muy  amiga de Jorge Negrete, su familia y muchos de sus amistades. Sandoval nos lleva por un encuentro intimo comensando con un joven Jorge en la familia de don David y  y dona Emilia y sus tres hermanas y hermano. Conocemos como fue la familia cuando se juntaba con familia para fiestas. Como la autora era muy amiga de Tere, una hermana de Jorge, hay muchas recolecciones de tiempos muy divertidos y contentos. Nos lleva rapido por su dias en el colegio Aleman y creciendo en Guanajuato hasta llegar en el militar. Derepente nos encontramos en Nueva York donde Jorge tiene aspiraciones de ser un gran cantante de opera. Su sueno nunca fue posible pero la vida tenia otros caminos que lo iba llevar a la fama internacional. Cuando esta en Nueva York tiene suenos de triunfar y sale  cantando por NBC.  Tambien trabajaba cerca de Times Square en un cabaret Latino y recibe su primer contracto par estar en una pelicula de Warner Bros con titulo de &quot;Noches de Cuba&quot; que fue musical en color. Como dicen, el resto es la historia por que de alli salio en mas de cuarenta peliculas hechos en varios paises incluyendo Espana, Argentina y Mexico. Su destino lo puso en contacto con muchos famosos actores y claramente las mas bellas damas. Sus mujeres eran las mas famosas de sus tiempos y se junto con Gloria Martin, Elisa Christy y  po fin con la gran actriz Maria Felix. Tambien conocimos Jorge Negrete el politico y como fue parte de 'Tele -Voz&quot; y Seretario General de la Asociacion ANDA que fue sindicato de actores. Mientras que estba triufando  y haciendo un gran nombre entre los artistas cinematograficos tambien tuvo sus problemas. La autora nos da detalles de las problemas entre Mario Moreno, mas bien conocido como &quot;Cantinflas&quot; y Jorge Negrete. Tambien nos dice de la buena relacion que tuvo con otro idolo del cine Mexicano, y gran cantante tambien, Pedro Infante. Por fin conocemos unos aspectos desconocidos de Jorge Negrete y nos lleva por su vida hasta su muerte a los 42 anos de edad. Como dige cuando comence esta  resena, este libro es muy breve y es uno interesante para que un joven conoce uno de los grandes de Mexico. El libro no es tanto una biografia completo pero mas bien  se trata de relatos personales. El libro tambien tiene fotos de sus peliculas y varios de sus amigos,  amigas y amistades de Jorge Negrete.  La senora Carmen Barajas Sandoval nos a invitado conocer un hombre que ella admiraba y quiere que tu conoces Jorge Negrete el hombe, un humano mas que un artista. Recomendo este libro para cualqiera persona que tiene interes en Jorge Negrete y tambien le recomendo sus canciones y peliculas.la buena relacion que tuvo con otro idolo del cine Mexicano, y gran cantante tambien, Pedro Infante. Por fin conocemos unos aspectos desconocidos de Jorge Negrete y nos lleva por su vida hasta su muerte a los 42 anos de edad. Como dige cuando comence esta  resena, este libro es muy breve y es uno interesante para que un joven conoce uno de los grandes de Mexico. El libro no es tanto una biografia completo pero mas bien  se trata de relatos personales. El libro tambien tiene fotos de sus peliculas y varios de sus amigos,  amigas y amistades de Jorge Negrete.  La senora Carmen Barajas Sandoval nos a invitado conocer un hombre que ella admiraba y quiere que tu conoces Jorge Negrete el hombe, un humano mas que un artista. Recomendo este libro para cualqiera persona que tiene interes en Jorge Negrete y tambien le recomendo sus canciones y peliculas.	2003-09-30
US	49709123	R32965BYXQ45HG	0062505653	974920079	Mayan Vision Quest: Mystical Initiation in Mesoamerica	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Mystical visions	Photographer Cynthia MacAdams presents a book of dazzling photographs based on her own\\"shaman's journey into the Mayan heart.\\" In this book of black and white photographs, complimented by a text written by Hunbatz Men, author of \\"Secrets of Mayan Science /Religion,\\" you are literally and visually thrown into a spiritual journey as you set your sights on the ancient cities , temples and stellae in the jungles of meso -America. Her closeups are to the point where you think an ancient God is trying to communicate with you from another time zone. The thick vegetation is thinned by her use of light to capture the dominance of the temples of the Maya. As she says she used a \\"red filter to energize white trees  and inky black skies.\\" She would meditate daily before her visit to capture  and connect with the Mayan soul. The result is a book that strikes a balance between a lost culture and a contemporary vision  of the Mayan ceremonial sites. This is the type of book that demands inspection, closer inspection of the details in stone and a reflective introspection into the subtlities of the cosmos. It is a book to be viewed over and over, detailing the temples lost in the tropical jungles that are renowned now for their beauty and mystery. All of the famous temples are included including the temples located in  Bonampak, Palenque, Tikal and Copan. The Temple of the Giant Jaguar and the Temple of the Masks are eerie, mysterious vestiges of a world where priests, priestesses and noble personages sat high above the assembleage invoking higher powers  and imparting their knowledge in the fields of science, art and the energies of nature.  These were the buildings made to coincide with the viewing of the solstice  and equinox cycles. The sun or the moon would rise directly behind the center of the temples. The alignment is pure science  and if you are ever able to see it in person I would highly recomend it.  The precise calibration of these astronimical events are sights to behold. There is somethinfg very compelling about his book that draws the viewer closer to a world very far from ours, centuries removed yet preserved with a celestial connection that reaches to Sirius and  the Milky Way. In Tulum and Chichen Itza the temples are resplendent and Chac Mool seems to be beckoning you to look beyond  everyday life to find the answers lost in stone.  A superb collection of photographs and text awaits the seeker of knowledge from the old ones who came before us. Our own planetary evolution may be part of a cycle; much like the Mayans who  dissapeared so long ago we may be destined  to leave only  the remnants of our own metropolis for future generations to decipher. This book is a magnificent addition to any collection of books on the mysterious Maya and is highly recommended.ld. There is somethinfg very compelling about his book that draws the viewer closer to a world very far from ours, centuries removed yet preserved with a celestial connection that reaches to Sirius and  the Milky Way. In Tulum and Chichen Itza the temples are resplendent and Chac Mool seems to be beckoning you to look beyond  everyday life to find the answers lost in stone.  A superb collection of photographs and text awaits the seeker of knowledge from the old ones who came before us. Our own planetary evolution may be part of a cycle; much like the Mayans who  dissapeared so long ago we may be destined  to leave only  the remnants of our own metropolis for future generations to decipher. This book is a magnificent addition to any collection of books on the mysterious Maya and is highly recommended.	2003-09-30
US	49709123	R2AW57GSLCJ5W5	0930523474	748345714	El Infierno	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Disturbing	This book is so disturbing that it is difficult to read.  The story of political  prisoners  torments in Uruguay is  told with descriptions of tortures that will make you squirm. The editors of Publishers Weekly, as listed here, have give a pretty good synopsis of what this book is all about. As I would read this book I felt uncomfortable and  would have to stop reading because I didn't want to know any more about the inhumane treatment. Although the book is captivating  I could only handle one chapter at a time since it usually dealt with one person or group of individuals who were held captive. The  human drama follows Dante's Inferno and begins each chapter with quotes from Dante's novel before you take a plunge into hell. The writting style is a little hard to follow at times but the book succeeds in raising questions about man's (in)tolerance of ideas different from theirs and to what extent will humans will fall to force their beliefs on others. It doesn't matter what side of the political spectrum you are on in a police state, the good guys are the bad guys and the bad guys are the good guys, nothing seems to be as it appears and everyone is fighting for justice with the end result being torture, injustice  and an unswaying belief by all that they are right. The author, Carlos Moreno, draws from his own experiences as a defense attorney and recreates his clients stories with vivid realism that describes the conditions of hell on earth, of being held against one's will in Uruguay but not limited to this countries treatment of dissidents or opposition forces as many countries throughtout Latin America are intolerant of political change. This book will make you think not only about the cases of inhumanity  in the 70's but will leave you wondering about what goes on  now worlwide.  This is definitely a book that is provocative but not exactly recreational reading, unless of course, you are willing to go to hell and back.	2003-09-20
US	49709123	R1EMSMR6GN37T7	0486424847	241621957	An Album of Maya Architecture (Native American)	Books	4	20	20	N	N	Outstanding  Drawings	There are currently two versions of this beautiful book available that does a marvelous job of recreating the Maya world. The one entitled &quot;An Album of Maya Architecture&quot;(the other version has no An in the title) is published by Dover and is unabridged  and is therefore a rebulication  of the original published  by the Carnegie Instition of Washington D.C. in 1946. This book is a labor of love by  Tatiana Proskouriakoff whose excellent illustrations will and have stood the test of time. In the acknowledgement the author gives credit to all who made this project possible as there are several  unpublished drawings and notes that were put at her disposal. Having visited the great temples of the Maya in Copan(Honduras), Guatemala and the Yucatan(Mexico) I can bear  testament to their magnificent presence in the jungles. Buried for years in the jungles they have only &quot;resurfaced&quot; recently for archeologists to study and preserve for future generations. In this book  the author takes the liberty of  informing us of the uses of the various temples based on her extensive knowledge and  field research. Since many of the building have deteriorated with the passing centuries,Tatiana Proskouriakoff  mastefully  recreates the buildings as they were, based on her studies. Her lively depiction of the famous Ball Court is in stark contrast to the actual court that is desolate with only  tourists and the spirits of  the skillfull atheletes who once graced the courts. The black and whilte illustrations are simple yet lavish in certain details. Each section or chapter comes complete with text explaining the visual and begins with an elaborate illustration of a particular part of the site in full rich detail.This is  a beautiful book that anyone who is interested in the ancient Maya should have in their library. The author also suggests other books and works to compliment the study of the complex world of the mysterious Maya.	2003-09-19
US	49709123	R2VQC37O21AU1L	0060508663	720100569	The September 11 Photo Project	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Never forget 9/11	As time passes and haunting memories fade beneath the shroud of  everyday life, the tragedy of 9/11 continues to resurface. The apocalyptic events of 9/11 and its  aftermath, the war on terror and the hunting of demonic cowards come even more  to life annually in what is now known as Patriots Day. On this day and the days leading up to 9/11  I've looked through this book countless times to remind myself of just what happened. This collection of photographs by everyday people, caught up in one of the most horrific acts of senseless violence is a testament to the anger, disbelief, shock, hurt, courage and will of the American people. Some of the photographs are gut wrenching reminders of the innocence we all lost on that  picturesque day that suddenly turned into a living hell. Others offer hope for the future of the USA and the spirit that lives on but all are real reminders of the consequences of a few determined individuals  backed by an organization, that want to destroy our way of lfe. Some people may find this book too painful to look at, it is a terrible reminder of the thousands who died and the symbolic and physical  destruction of the Twin Towers. As on the day that  I witnessed the collapse of a magnificent building, that I once was in and looked at the panoramic view from the restaurant and observation deck, it is still hard to believe that it has been destroyed. This book is a collaborative effort in a sense, it brings together the efforts of all who tried to make sense of the atrocity they were witnessing. By stopping reality for an instant the contributors have created a memorial and a reflection on their own private hell for all to share in their grief. The collages are assembled much  like the day, they are put together in a chaotic fashion that is quite fitting . If you can bear witness again please do ; this captures the peoples view of evil unleashed on that fateful day America was attacked  and fresh in your mind what the War on Terror is all about and the inexorable justice that will result.t and the inexorable justice that will result.	2003-09-11
US	49709123	R13B493JDCRBUW	096415420X	79968976	Charlie Carrillo: Tradition and Soul / Tradicin y Alma (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Devotional art	If you are into southwestern folk art, specifically from New Mexico, than this book belongs in your library. Do not be put off by the title being in Spanish as the text is  in English, with the exception of a bilingual section. The works of master santero,(one makes saints, usually in wood) Charlie Carillo are featured throughout the book that is is in full color. The text is quite interesting as the subject of santero is explored in both a historical and contemporary context. The text does include Spanish but is limited to the foreward. The tradition of the santero is thus examined and brought into the current state. There is also a discussion of related subjects like the Penitentes, which is a Roman Catholic Brotherhood dating back to the 1700's in Northern New Mexico  and Southern Colorado. Included in the printed word  is a concise glossary that provides defintions to the terms used that includes materials used etc. to create the santos and retablos(flat wood panel  paintings). Of particular interest is the section that introduces the reader to the santos. This includes short &quot;bios&quot; on the santos  and their particular role in the life and religious drama. This is extremely important to understand, in order to see  the signifince  of these figures for which the artist has toiled  for hours to create and &quot;bring to life.&quot; The feast day of celebration is given as well for all of the saints &quot;bios.&quot; There is also an extensive bibliography, information on New Mexican Hispanic Culture and personal awards and achievements given to Charlie Carillo for his works(some 3,500 pieces as of the books printing) as well as a list of exhibits that have featured his works. Carillo also shares some interesting stories related to the pieces featured which includes  the  inspiration to the creatve process. Although the written word is extremely interesting the color photographs of the three dimensional santos and flat retablos are fantastic. Sometimes there are two or three different related pieces on a page  but this does detract from the fine details given each piece. An artist, like any other person in their respective field of interest should be an evolving person that gets better with age. Some his earlier works, which are featured from the late 70's are rudimentary compared to his exquisitely detailed labors of love made more recently. The various phases of his evolving artistry is outlined and displayed. These are some of the most inspirational works you will ever see from an exceptionally talented folk artist. Great stuff to browse through whenever, this is a book for anyone interested in folk art or who may be a woodcarver themself. Highly recommended for the collector of books related to the arts of New Mexcio.ere are two or three different related pieces on a page  but this does detract from the fine details given each piece. An artist, like any other person in their respective field of interest should be an evolving person that gets better with age. Some his earlier works, which are featured from the late 70's are rudimentary compared to his exquisitely detailed labors of love made more recently. The various phases of his evolving artistry is outlined and displayed. These are some of the most inspirational works you will ever see from an exceptionally talented folk artist. Great stuff to browse through whenever, this is a book for anyone interested in folk art or who may be a woodcarver themself. Highly recommended for the collector of books related to the arts of New Mexcio.	2003-09-10
US	49709123	R3JLG7VBTOS6OI	0807608262	76292295	Celtic and Anglo-Saxon Painting: Book Illumination in the British Isles 600-800	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Religious Celtic art	This book features forty eight color plates that are reproduced in high quality paper from original manuscripts from the seventh and centuries. The author, Carl Nordenfalk, provides a historical background  and commentry on each of the plates. The author 's style of writing lends itself well to one not overly knowledgeable of the subject matter. The manuscripts are taken from the Gospel Books  which were richly ornate, having almost talismanic qualities  having been  produced in the native art style of the Celts and Anglo- Saxons as the Christian missionaries were proselytizing in the Bristish Isles. Most of the manuscripts come from the  Book of Lindisfarne, the Book of Durrow  and the Book of Kells. The manuscripts feature portraits of various Christian messengers such as Saint Luke, Saint John, Saint Chad and biblical figures such as King David,  Madonna and Christ. There are also pages  of the written word from the various gospels shown in the rich decorative style of the Celts. The looping interlocked letters and motiffs  are an amazing contribution to civilization that everyone can enjoy from these ancient, partialy intact codex. The symbols  and strange animation create symetrical patterns that are highly imaginative  and will astound the viewer with it's complex primitivism. The intrinsic beauty and composition is sometimes in stark contrast to the flatness of the figures. You can literally get lost in the patterns, there are endless oblong patterns of scrollwork, tied together by knots, interwoven  and intertwined animals stretching out and connecting to fancy letters or other motiffs that will dazzle your senses. This is a great book to gaze upon  and reassure yourself of the beautiful beyond that has inspired many centuries of art work. The book also provides a complete list of color and black  and white plates and a selected bibliography for future reference. This is a great book to look at anytime, especially in those tranquil moments of peace and reflection. Recommended for anyone interested in book illumination, Christian art  and the similarities between Celtic art from this period and Byzantine and Italian art and the inspiration of the Gospel.ection. Recommended for anyone interested in book illumination, Christian art  and the similarities between Celtic art from this period and Byzantine and Italian art and the inspiration of the Gospel.	2003-08-04
US	49709123	R2764JNIRYMHIR	1887374124	782175356	Making Rustic Furniture: The Tradition, Spirit, and Technique with Dozens of Project Ideas	Books	5	20	21	N	N	YOU can do it	If by chance one of those strange looking pieces of &quot;stick furniture&quot; has ever caught your eye and the price seemed high for your budget than consider making your own. This book is full of useful information. Besides the more elborate high end pieces, that are closer to a work of art , there are many examples of simple pieces. The good news is that YOU can make a piece or even  a set of rustic furniture. Although it looks complicated, the twisted wood all connected for a functional piece of furniture is relatively easy to make. I've had this book for years  and have used it to make several projects for the backyard. You can begin easy with say, a bird house, trellis or a small stool or table. With more experience and confidence the book will provide you with suggestions and inspiration for more dificult projects to tackle. Essentially once you learn and practice some of the basic techniques you are ready to let your imagination go. If you can visualize it YOU can make it. One of the good things about this type of furniture is that if something goes &quot;wrong&quot; this can actually be &quot;corrected&quot; and may lead to an even more interesting effect. Also the piece does not have to have all one type of wood, you can use the burls  and roots for interesting effects  and even other non-wood objects can be incorporated . Apparently willow is one of the best woods to use but just about any wood will work to create a piece of furniture; it just may not have the intricate and flexibile weavings of willow. You can use whatever is readily avilable in your area. There are examples of various woods including hickory, driftwood, juniper, cedar and maple.  While doing a major spring  yard cleaning, in summer, I used California Pepper tree limbs  and branches to make a large settee for the backyard. Most anyone can do this, even young people without woodworking experience; children can even participate. I incorporated the help of my 15 year old son to complete this project . He had many good ideas and once he got the hang of it was working on sections without me! It made for a good father and son project.The point here being anyone can make something, including YOU. This book will help you learn the basics and than you can move on with the suggested  detailed techniques and projects. Besides the tecnical help the book provides, the outstanding varied examples of rustic furniture with different types of wood, the book  also has a section on sources for books , rustic furniture dealers, places to buy old and new tools and many of the furniture makers featured in the book addresses and phone numbers for contacts. Once you get this book you will never look at the old wood pile or take a walk in the woods in the same manner. This is an excellent sourcebook with informative and creative inspiration  just waiting to help you get started on your first project. Happy rustic furniture making!is project . He had many good ideas and once he got the hang of it was working on sections without me! It made for a good father and son project.The point here being anyone can make something, including YOU. This book will help you learn the basics and than you can move on with the suggested  detailed techniques and projects. Besides the tecnical help the book provides, the outstanding varied examples of rustic furniture with different types of wood, the book  also has a section on sources for books , rustic furniture dealers, places to buy old and new tools and many of the furniture makers featured in the book addresses and phone numbers for contacts. Once you get this book you will never look at the old wood pile or take a walk in the woods in the same manner. This is an excellent sourcebook with informative and creative inspiration  just waiting to help you get started on your first project. Happy rustic furniture making!	2003-08-02
US	49709123	R1HGT5LG4HZR6S	0486237648	335073202	Indian Designs from Ancient Ecuador (Dover Pictorial Archive Series)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Excellent sourcebook	This is a very good book, made with the traditional Dover Publication quality found in other books in their series that feature pictorials as diverse in subject matter as Art Noveau and Japanese Designs. As stated in the book, it is a permanent book produced  with the quality standards used for the best books including pages bound in signatures that open flat for reference without the pages coming out. This is important since each  page has three or four details taken from designs from pre-Columbian Ecuador  and if you are copying them you will need the pages open and flat for an extended period of time. The designs are black and white illustrations and range is subject matter from splayed figures, people, many different animals including mammals, birds, reptiles and fish, plants and abstact creations, just to name a few. Each illustration is flat and enlarged showing the detail next to the smaller whorl or bead. The designs are taken from the private collection of the author.  The author, Frederick w. Shaffer, used his collection of spindle whorls or weights and decorative beads that date back  from 500 to 1500 A.D. In the introduction their is a brief explanation of these onjects  and their use and how he aquired them in 1959. Although this is not a historical book per se it does represent the art work of the craftsmen of ancient Ecuador so it does have some historical significance. It is a remarkable collection of designs or motiffs that are valuable for people invloved in the visual arts. As a sourcebook for people in advertising, textiles or woodwork these designs may be used at will, with the permission of the author, to enlarge, reduce, alter, etc. for your convenience. If you are creative these designs can also be a stimulas for your own designs influenced by the ancient artists of Ecuador. Crafts people in jewelry, metalcraft or leather will find these designs very helpful. An interesting feature is the similarities in these designs  and other objects collected from vastly  different geographical locations in pre-Columbian America.The book is similar to the(2) books of ancient designs of Mexico by Jorge Enciso.cted from vastly  different geographical locations in pre-Columbian America.The book is similar to the(2) books of ancient designs of Mexico by Jorge Enciso.	2003-08-01
US	49709123	RD20SMYCQY4IL	0783549083	362535690	The Way of the Spirit	Books	5	5	5	N	N	For Truth Seekers	This is a beautiful book, presented in the rich tradition of  Time Life Books that captures the images of our times; it is more than superb photography. The text accompanying the images that depict  various aspects of the Native American experience are well written testaments to a spiritual understanding in tune with all of the creations of this world. The role of animals, nature  and  all it's special places to reach your spiritual quest are examined. Each page has a magnificent one or two page photograph that is spectacular; no matter whether it is a panoramic view of an Arizona desert, a peak dominating a Montana vista with reflective imagery in a deep blue lake or a whirlwind of feathers in a colorful ceromonial dance, the pictures are breathtaking and  inspirational. Several tribes belief systems are examined  more closely but all have the universal thread of harmony with nature. There is  a pretty extensive overview of the Haida culture of the Northwest accompanied by beautiful pictures, often artifacts of the their magnificent woodwork. Also the Kachina Spirits of the Hopi have a nice section displaying the creative representations of their world. All the elements of the spirit world are covered, including the role of the shaman and the tools used to invoke their power. The role of symbols, fetishes, talismans ,dance and the seasons are explained as well. The book is organized in the tradition of the full circle of life as the opening section deals with the matters within the circle and the last section of the book deals with the eternal circle. In the final section , the eternal circle there are a series of beautiful historical black and white photographs of represenatives of various ages from many different tribes; the faces of a proud people will astound you with their piercing penetrating looks at the camera. This is an outstanding book to add to your Native American or history section of your library, whether personal or public, that will delight truth seekers of all ages. The accompanying poems, stories  and anecdotes are truly inspirational. The colorful oversized photographs are worth the price of the book alone but the text is a bonus that solidifies the total package. This quote by Jenny Leading Cloud, Lakota Sioux,  pretty much sums up the attitude expressed in this book. &quot; We Indians think of the earth and the whole universe as a never -ending circle, and in this circle, man is just another animal. We end our prayers with the words all my relations- and that includes everything that grows, crawls, runs, creeps, hops and flies.&quot;eekers of all ages. The accompanying poems, stories  and anecdotes are truly inspirational. The colorful oversized photographs are worth the price of the book alone but the text is a bonus that solidifies the total package. This quote by Jenny Leading Cloud, Lakota Sioux,  pretty much sums up the attitude expressed in this book. &quot; We Indians think of the earth and the whole universe as a never -ending circle, and in this circle, man is just another animal. We end our prayers with the words all my relations- and that includes everything that grows, crawls, runs, creeps, hops and flies.&quot;	2003-07-25
US	49709123	R1EQROH01C56FK	0374117411	616612557	Burnt water: Stories	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Short but sweet	This particular translated edition  of  &quot;Burnt Water&quot; originally was released in Spainish under the title &quot;Aqua Quemada&quot; and has many more stories, over double, than the original version. The translations are excellent  and deserve mention because they do not compromise the integrity of the beautiful written word of Carlos Fuentes. I have compared both editions and am very impressed with the literal translation. The stories are all very short,  usually in the 25- 30  page range but read like little novels. The characters developed by Fuentes are colorful representations that come to life and jump off the pages. When reading Fuentes the familiarity with the characters and distant lands becomes familiar at once. Fuentes can take you on a journey to the times of the Mexican Revolution and you feel the period come to life. The rich literary style of Fuentes in his formative years is revealed to be not quite as eloquent as his later works but do show the characteristic stylings developing. When you read these short stories you will feel as though they are sketches of future works(if you are familiar with his later works), fragments creating a whole and eventually evolving into masterpieces. Fuentes ability to create visual scenes translates into an experience that allows you to smell the aromas, see the vistas, for example, when he describes a person  sweeping in front of their home you can feel the wet earth being the neutralized by water to keep the dust down. You feel the character breathing in the fresh morning air, the fragrance of the flowers, the morning dew on the trees, the distant mountains and the peeking sun giving the countryside a wake up call; Fuentes paints panoramic vistas with his words that draw you into the scenes, he is a literary giant even in the short story form. Although I am not personally a big fan of the short story format, these stories are perfect for the limited attention span of the modern busy times we live in. This is an excellent  collection of stories, all very different in content and sometimes ending too quickly; the people and places you meet in  Carlos Fuentes works are such that you want them to go and on. Recommended for anyone that appreciates literary genius but especially good for someone on a limited reading time schedule or curious about the works of Fuentes.an excellent  collection of stories, all very different in content and sometimes ending too quickly; the people and places you meet in  Carlos Fuentes works are such that you want them to go and on. Recommended for anyone that appreciates literary genius but especially good for someone on a limited reading time schedule or curious about the works of Fuentes.	2003-07-24
US	49709123	R2VWF4BSVSY8IE	0233988424	448885983	Orange Tree	Books	4	3	4	N	N	A dreamy literary vision	There is a certain poetic fusion connecting the five novellas found in this fine book of short stories that is like a disconnected dream you might experience upon waking. Carlos Fuentes delivers his verbal barrage and assault upon everything that has created the modern Mexican. He delves into his historical replays with witty insight, carefully ripping apart the sacred past with tongue in cheek imagery that is funny  and thought provoking at once. After reading some passages  you will go back and read them again for the sheer eloquence and beauty of the masterful use of language. Fuentes says things in such a way that even things that should offend you are so profound in their simplistic articulation that you have to chuckle. Fuentes delivers his message in suttle ways but with an impact that gets under your skin, enveloping  and seducing you in his recreations that are colorful  and walk off the pages taking you on a wonderful journey as only he can. Even tough the stories are unrelated they somehow feel like the greater part of the whole. I found all the stories to be different, completly entertaining with the exception of one. This is probably my own personal taste but I had trouble getting into &quot;The Two Numantias,&quot; quite possibly because of my  not being as familiar with the subjects. However, when Fuentes is talking about La Malinche, Cortes, Chapultepec, Cortes , the Spanish conquerors and the Aztecs, often in hyterically hyped imagery, the results are as familiar as frijoles and tortillas. Carlos Fuentes often writes in a hyper sexual mode as is evident in  &quot;Apollo and the Whores&quot; where the sexual escapades are rated xxx  but have an erotic texture that somehow make them less raw;  besides his hilarious and outrageous narrative dominates  and makes you laugh at the outlandsih scenarios. This book of five short stories is definitely recommended for someone not familiar with  Carlos Fuentes. As one of Mexico's most brilliant and prolific writers, Fuentes demonstrates why he is one of the best Latin American writers. If you are unfamiliar with Fuentes this might be a good place to start since the stories are short  and give a good indication of his writing style; if you don't like a particular novella you can always skip it. However if you do like Fuentes and want to read more than I would recommend &quot;Christopher Unborn,&quot;  &quot;The Death of Artemio Cruz, &quot;  &quot;The Good Conscience,&quot; or more recently the epic books &quot;The years With Laura Diaz&quot; or &quot;The Buried Mirror.&quot; I'll end this review or suggestive prodding of you to read Carlos Fuentes by borrowing verse from a Fuentes scene involving two singers, one singing in Nahuatl another in Castilian.&quot;We've only come to dream, and the words flow far from the valley, into a distant sea where the silent rivers of life come to a halt. The narrative continues  and the singing ends without ending: &quot;My flowers will never end,<br />  My songs will never end.<br />  I raise them up,<br />  I am only the singer.......&quot;iters, Fuentes demonstrates why he is one of the best Latin American writers. If you are unfamiliar with Fuentes this might be a good place to start since the stories are short  and give a good indication of his writing style; if you don't like a particular novella you can always skip it. However if you do like Fuentes and want to read more than I would recommend &quot;Christopher Unborn,&quot;  &quot;The Death of Artemio Cruz, &quot;  &quot;The Good Conscience,&quot; or more recently the epic books &quot;The years With Laura Diaz&quot; or &quot;The Buried Mirror.&quot; I'll end this review or suggestive prodding of you to read Carlos Fuentes by borrowing verse from a Fuentes scene involving two singers, one singing in Nahuatl another in Castilian.&quot;We've only come to dream, and the words flow far from the valley, into a distant sea where the silent rivers of life come to a halt. The narrative continues  and the singing ends without ending: &quot;My flowers will never end,<BR>                                            My songs will never end.<BR>                                             I raise them up,<BR>                                              I am only the singer.......&quot;	2003-07-08
US	49709123	R3AE6V90DCKBMW	0500282420	800798898	In a Spiritual Style: The Home as Sanctuary	Books	4	33	33	N	N	Inner peace in your home	As you browse throught this book you will feel inspired in many ways; you will be inspired spiritually of course but also at looking at the world in a different way. In this book the differences between religions are erased, the belief in ancient dieties mesh with contemporary reflections of Jesus, Buddah, Hindu Shiva and Shakti figures, African fetish figures or sculptures are intermingled with Burmese textiles  and Mexican altars , complete with crosses adorned with milagros are juxtaposed on other pages with devil  wood carvings  and images of death in the form of calaveras (skeletons). There is even a section on Santeria altars where the text explains the origins  of the religion as coming with the slaves from Yoruba to Cuba and spreading throughout the Caribbean. The book is organized with a text and accompanying pictures of the history of sacred design and the meaning of santuary. If you look at the table of contents you will see that the author explores gardens, rooms and shrines, altars , art and artifacts. The text is less than spellbinding but the pictures are magnificent.  The author takes you into several artists homes and naturally they are some of the most spectacular. If you are into wood work from New Mexico than you are in for  a real treat. There is nearly a two page spread of renowned santero Ramon Jose Lopez bedroom that shows his &quot;chapel&quot; where he sleeps. The bed has six panels, featuring various saints, a room divider with more hand carved panels of saints, many styles of  crosses, including an altar made of wood in form of a pyramid where each level is lit by candle light and colorful retablos. It is a sight to behold and helps explain the inspired beautiful work by Lopez. In general this is a book that opens up the possibilities for creativiy to flow and create your own santuary. Having a mini altar myself  that continues to grow and having seen some impressive homes where sacred places exist , this book helps to borrow ideas from or develop some new ideas. The gardens featured range from simple, rustic places to elaborate arts of work complete with sculptural panels and life sized sculptures looking as though they are dancing in the garden in their inanimate state. The colorful pictures seem to reveal something new each time you look at the book, it as though the spirits reveal themselves when the time is right. A fine book for browsing after taking a break from the task at hand, this book will inspire you and elevate your senses  as you look to the heavens  and  give thanks for all the beauty around you.r develop some new ideas. The gardens featured range from simple, rustic places to elaborate arts of work complete with sculptural panels and life sized sculptures looking as though they are dancing in the garden in their inanimate state. The colorful pictures seem to reveal something new each time you look at the book, it as though the spirits reveal themselves when the time is right. A fine book for browsing after taking a break from the task at hand, this book will inspire you and elevate your senses  as you look to the heavens  and  give thanks for all the beauty around you.	2003-06-26
US	49709123	R2UBHT0YMNGO3K	0823003213	859672565	Arte Latino: Treasures from the Smithsonian American Art Museum (Further treasures from the Smithsonian Museum)	Books	3	7	7	N	N	Smithsonian teaser	How do you highlight 200 years of Latino art in the United States and Puerto Rico in a book from a world renowned collection? Well you don't do it in a 108 page book from  the Smithsonian American Art Museum. Having visited the said museum it is a pity that this small book is an offering they  produced  to represent the vast collection. The book uses the term &quot;highlights&quot; but it is just not enough. It is like a variety of crackers offered in a fine restaurant; it'll hold you over but not satisfy your hunger. The collected pictures are beautifully presented accompanied by very short analysis of the piece and usually a paragraph about the artist. If you like looking at a few nice pieces than this book will do.This book is like fast food for the art aficionado. Since the represented art is in various media it results in a disjointed but varied whole. Most of the featured artists in the book are contemporary but there is the occasional misplaced unknown  colonial artist or noted 19th century santero Felipe de la Espada that just doesn't fit or do justice to the subject. There is a lack of continuity and  thematic cohesion with the book. When the book is thread together it is when the art of New Mexico artists are featured , most notably the works of santeros and wood carvers, George Lopez, Gloria Lopez Cordova, Luis Tapia, Horacio Valdez, Jose Benito Ortega, Ramon lopez, George Lopez, Felix Lopez(yes, it a long family line of Lopez santeros) and  Patrocino Barela. Again the problem here is that they are placed between other media like oils, acrylics, fiberglass, woven cotten rug, colored pencil, granite  and silver prints for a resulting weird representaion.  The book has no chapters and unfortunately it could have used them. This book just scratches the surface and falls short. This book is for someone just beginning on their quest for knowledge about Latino art. Possbly from this point you can depart to finding out more about some of these artists but this book  is only a starting point. If you are looking for a Latino art appetizer than this book is for you, otherwise look elsewhere to satisfy your appetite.ook  is only a starting point. If you are looking for a Latino art appetizer than this book is for you, otherwise look elsewhere to satisfy your appetite.	2003-06-18
US	49709123	R25PAS0RI5MI9R	1559586486	77994032	In-Line Skating: The Ultimate How-To Guide	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Encyclopedia of in-line skating	While getting an aerobic workout at a lake I frequent, I have noticed many familiar faces changing their workouts to include rollerblading. This made me think of my first experiences with in line skating some ten years ago. I bought this book back when it came out because then there wasn't much available to read and get some tips . I found this book to very helpful for getting started and have looked it over again and still feel there is valuable information for all levels of skaters. When you are just starting to get out and roll this book can provide some helpful hints and suggestions to make your excursions on wheels even more fun. The author covers all facets of in-line skating. When you are just beginning with the sport a whole new world  opens up for the active individual. There is in-line hockey, speed skating, racing, skate dancing, figure skating, aggressive, freestyle and streetstyle skating, ramps(there are even building plans) and a variety of organizations, clubs  and associations provided by the author, Albert Fried-Cassorla to introduce you to the world of skating. I found the maintenace of rollerblades section to be especially helpful when I began. The author covers the various styles of in-line skating, the specialized skates for the different interests, and also discusses the use of safety equipment which is really valuable when you are just learning. Pads and helmets can save trips to the hospital. It is inevitable to fall and the suggested equipment will make your falls cushioned and save you from getting &quot;road rash.&quot; There really is a variety of information for the different uses of rollerblades, something for everyone who is taking up the sport.  I would recommend this book to the begineer especially. For the recreational in-line skater, or work out enthsiast, the healthful benefits are discussed and compared with other aerobic activites. The author also has workout plans and strategies for interval training  and advanced intervel training that will help you work on achieving fitness goals. This book is very handy at whatever level you are at because advanced moves are also illustrated and explained with clarity. Get this book to get you where you are going, why walk when you can roll?ining that will help you work on achieving fitness goals. This book is very handy at whatever level you are at because advanced moves are also illustrated and explained with clarity. Get this book to get you where you are going, why walk when you can roll?	2003-06-07
US	49709123	R32EWR153UKJ4M	0934418551	596653552	Frida Kahlo, Diego Rivera, and Twentieth Century Mexican Art: The Jacques and Natasha Gelman Collection	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A collection as art itself	If you are looking for a good art book that covers some of the best in Mexican Art than look no further. As part of an exhibition that toured Dallas, Phoenix  and San Diego, where I was lucky enough to have seen the impressive collection, this book is full of varied works and styles. Although the emphasis is on Frida Kahlo and Diego Rivera, there are many more artists featured, including Nahum Zenil, Rufino Tamayo, Carlos Orozco Romero, Agustin Lazo, Maria Izquierdo, Lola Alvarez Bravo, Gunther Gerzo and of course the others in the &quot;Three Greats,&quot; David Alfaro Siquieros and Jose Clemente Orozco to complete the triad masters of Mexican Art. Some of the art is breathtaking ,original and shocking but all pleasing. There are many more artists featured, to numerous to name,  but suffice to say that the broad spectrum of Mexican Art is covered, including the works of contemporary artists as Natasha continued to collect into the 1990's, a decade after her husbands passing. As beautiful and magical as the art is, so varied in form, subject  and media matter, the text is one that teaches about how this collection came to be. The outstanding essays reflect on the intriguing lives of the art collectors, beginning with their meeting and becoming naturalized Mexican citizens from their European exile. The relationship between Jacques Gelman  and the Mexican movie comedian icon Cantinflas, who he discovered, is discussed  and  the stuff of legend. Jacques Hollywood connections are also featured, both in essay and pictures. The personal relationships both Jacques and Natasha had with Diego and Frida is now legendary. Although they have European(not featured here) Art in their private collection, their real love was for Mexican Art. The Gelmans devotion and dedication to Mexican Art was their baby they never had. They have nutured and shared their gifts with the rest of the world by keeping their collection intact  and it speaks for itself as a collective art piece. If you missed the tour than by all means get this book which features all the exhibitions art pieces, short biographies of the artists and an interesting  bilingual text. Recommended for art enthusiasts interested in the evolving art of Mexico.u missed the tour than by all means get this book which features all the exhibitions art pieces, short biographies of the artists and an interesting  bilingual text. Recommended for art enthusiasts interested in the evolving art of Mexico.	2003-06-01
US	49709123	R33N0OG9YIVX03	0962057061	526936202	Mysterious Lights and Crop Circles	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Facts  and theories	There are lots of opinions, both from skeptics and believers alike surrounding the phenomena known as crop circles. This book will not necessarily sway you one way or the other but it will add fuel to the debate especially for the skeptics. I agree with the good Dr. Haselhoff from the Netherlands, whose outstanding book, \\"The Deepening Complexity of Crop Circles, Scientific Research and Urban Legends,\\" states that the question of  \\"light phenomena\\" in photographs and the \\"plasma theory\\" a little out there.  Contrary to some reviewers opinions regarding the ho-hum nature of the people relating their experiences I found the style down to earth. The peoples experiences make the book easy to read, personal  and it touches you as being real.  The mysterious unknown is brought down to earth by the ordinary. It gives you a sense of being there.The part of the book that explains the goings on  and an historical overview of Glastonbury is very interesting, especially for someone like me who is on the other side of the Atlantic Ocean. The history surrounding Chalice Well and the Vesica Piscis design is something that stimulates thought concerning the origins of the phenomena. The color photographs are very special. Since there are no answers to the origins of the crop circles this book does not really give one. What does seem to be evident is that some type of electromagnetic field is responsible  and that we are probably not rationally or scientically equipped to understand why they are showing up, let alone what they mean. Is it some type of communication?  Yes, as the crop circles convey sheer beauty, magnificent symetry  and mystery beyond our comprehension. Recommended reading for those that are interested in some beautiful designs that could have some deeper meaning.	2003-05-30
US	49709123	R626Q2K519TPX	0914728156	72207834	Hallucinogenic Plants of North America	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Great reference book	The cover of this book has a Pre-Columbian mushroom stone from the highlands of Guatemala, circa 500 bc. The cover is very telling as it represents the scope of this historical survey of drugs. This book is an excellent source book for learning about the use of plants by indigenous cultures, identification of such plants and warnings about the possibility of death for novice \\"recreational\\" drug users to experiment with some of these potentially deadly  plants. The author emphasizes that just because the plant is natural, has been used for achieving certain states of consciouness that it does not mean it is safe. Written in 1976, this book concerns itself primarily with mushrooms of various kinds, including several Psilocybe. Included are sections on Canabis Sativa, Lophophora, Belladona  and Datura. All of the above mentioned have street names to long to mention but this book is not about street drugs. The book has been designed as a field manual and reference guide to the literature on the chemistry and history of hallucinogenic plants. The included illustrations are very good for the botanist. The chemical descriptions are for those individuals so inclined but pretty much out of the scope of people without a firm foundation in chemistry. The included history of the 30 represenative plants is  very interesting, especially when studying ancient cultures and  belief systems. Of particular interest is the section that discusses the use of plants in ancient religious ceremonies. Some of the information based on historical fact is speculative theory but nevetheless food for thought. There is also a section dealing with the biochemistry and physiology of the central nervous system and  the effect the  introduction of hallucinatory drugs has. Some sections, like the one just mentioned are highly technical but with some foundation  in biology or chemistry can be understood. There are appendices to further explain certain details, a glossary  and an extensive bibliography. If you want to know more about native hallucinogenic plants and their use historically in North America than this is a book for you. This is also a good book for parents to understand more about some of the popular drugs circulating among the experimental youth of today.If you want to know more about native hallucinogenic plants and their use historically in North America than this is a book for you. This is also a good book for parents to understand more about some of the popular drugs circulating among the experimental youth of today.	2003-05-29
US	49709123	R17CI4IOKI057	0803291167	13744579	Witchcraft in the Southwest: Spanish and Indian Supernaturalism on the Rio Grande	Books	4	11	12	N	N	When worlds collide	The subject of witchraft usually  creates images associated with evil, a potent brew conjured in a cauldron, pins in a effigy  and various other images dating way back in time. The author, Marc Simmons, known for his scholarly  investigation into the culture surrounding New Mexcio and the southwest wrote this book in 1980  and continues to stand as one of the most concise books on the subject. Simmons begins his investigative narrative with a brief history of witchcraft prior to  and including the Middle Ages  and brings the subject into the Inqusition. The book centers on case histories, stories related down through generations, often no doubt embellished  with color through time  and in general one supernatural story after another. Some of the stories are extremely hard to believe for most of us who are conditioned by western thought. The book explores the role of the curranderos, shamen and medicine men, their means to achieve their goals and the power of prayer, invocations of saints names and the cross. There are plenty of stories of murder and mayhem,\\" flying\\" witches, people changing into animals and more tales from the dark side.What is most interesting about his book is how the Indians themselves dealt with witches in their midsts and the resulting conflict with anglo culture that was based on perceptions steeped in (Catholic) Christianity. The case studies are all documented, as incredible as they are  and the anthropological data is nothing short of amazing revelations into the conflicts of two worlds. The native inhabitants of the New World had beliefs of their own, much of which was destroyed but the surviving ethnohistorical documents reveal a pagan culture that was at complete odds with the Europeans who arrived from Spain. This is a fascinating look at a subject not often thought of in terms of witchcraft along the Rio Grande. If you like history, Indian belief systems and  the role of religion for good and bad than this book is for you. Recommended for history buffs interested in the area of the southwest, specifically New Mexico and Arizona and the collision of two worlds.for history buffs interested in the area of the southwest, specifically New Mexico and Arizona and the collision of two worlds.	2003-05-28
US	49709123	R3S6WHBS2WWQQX	0670857173	629953038	Folk Art in American Life	Books	3	3	3	N	N	When curiosities become art	With the relatively recent (80 years) recognition of folk art as  a &quot;legitimate&quot; art form this book does a decent job of displaying and discussing some works. Since many of the artists are unknown or little is known about them the biographical information is limited.  The authors relied primarily on the eastern part of the United States  and hence there is an abundance of folk art missing . The folk art from the southwest, which is a part of the fabric of America is missing and leaves a void as a represenative snapshot of Americana. There are a few art token pictures, most notably  of Simon Rodia's Watts Towers in the section on  the The Folk Art Environment, which is the last chapter but for the most part there is very little ethnic folk art.The folk art that is represented ranges in media  and subjest and style from abstract to prmitive. The furniture collection is along with the collection of oils and needle and loom work some of the best examples in their respective fields. My personal favorite sections were those that featured the sculptures of metalworkers and woodcarvers, especially the works of John Perates, Elijah Pierce and Miles Burkholder Carpenter. The accompanying text can be  a bit tedious at times, especially if you are not that interested in that particular type of folk art. However, the pictures are excellent and more than compensate for any shortcoming the book may have. If you are into antiques or a collector of Americana than you will probably enjoy this book. For artists there are some inspirational works done long ago that are just now being recognized. The book also serves as an introduction to an artist that you may have not known about. This is especially useful for further research on the internet.  Recommended for people that like folk art.	2003-05-25
US	49709123	RKPZEJPK7ILD9	0898158524	483262460	Dead Snails Leave No Trails: Natural Pest Control for Home and Garden	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Garden companion	This is probably the most handy garden book in my collection for quick reference for a variety of maladies. Although it is small in size it is big on help. The author is a local weatherman in San Diego and many of the garden tidbits included on his televison weather segment are in this book. If you want to know to rid your garden of pests in a \\"humane\\" way than this book is for you. The recipes are more on  the organic natural method as opposed to insecticides. There are plenty of old recipres for geting rid of those unwanted visitors to your garden. The book also provides good information on the beneficial visitors including some of the lesser known variaties. For example, recently I was being \\"bugged\\" by these hovering flies that mimic the flying motion of helicopters  and  I was trying to think of a way to rid my garden of them. After checking this book again I  found out they are Syrphid Flies  and actually  are great pollinators and beneficial for controling aphids. Besides telling you o f the purpose of the insects or critters there are also mini history lessons on the origins of the visitors to your garden.  Like this little tidbit of garden facts there are countless other informative ideas to help you have a better garden. Recommended for garden hobbyists who like to read in the garden after putting in some labor.	2003-05-24
US	49709123	R2P3J3LFRSA2AM	1567994938	841188757	Garden Ideas: Creative Design Solutions	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Colorful stunning garden vistas	The pictures in this book make the price right. With big glossy colorful pictures on every page and a minimum of text this book serves the visual learner well. If ever the saying &quot;a picture is worth a thousand words&quot; were more fitting than to this book than let me see that book too. These pictures are of some of the most magnificent gardens you'll ever want to see. Of course  the pictures make you imagine the same results are possible in your garden  and to a certain extent this can be true. However, there really is no reference to garden zones so what looks like a good idea may not work in your garden. The sections are very beneficial for creating visually dazzling effects in your garden like the addition of trellises and arbors which I found particularly helpful. Also the rustic additions to the garden make for some very interesting results.  Although no building plans are included enough of the structures are visble to get an idea on how to create your structure. There are however plans for laying out your plants so that they are arranged according to heights and seasonal blooms. My major complaint with the book is that the pictures feature mature gardens that obviously have years of growth and care already invested in the beautiful results. If you are interested in water gardens there are some fantastic examples of splashy habitats, including the water garden of Claude Monet. The special touches section seems to have been an afterthought when putting this book together because it is brief and not as elaborate as the other sections. With nearly three hundred  pages/picutres you are sure to see some good ideas for your own garden. Highly recommended for the garden enthusiast.	2003-05-24
US	49709123	RLV5APH2C4H3Z	0938262246	647940005	Lola Alvarez Bravo: In Her Own Light (The Archive, 31)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Composition deluxe	If the visual arts of Mexico stimulate you than you will find these photographs to be like taking a journey through time and space across the land. Lola Alvarez Bravo, the wife of Manuel Alvarez Bravo, arguably Mexico's finest photographer, was a magnificent photographer in her own right. She carved the way through the use of her camera lense for women of future generations to capture the images of their times. This book features some of her own personal favorites by other masters of black and white imagery as well as the selected 36  plates. The everyday existence of people comes to life from it's mundane existence to reveal the power and beauty in the ordinary. The result is a set of extrordinary photographs that includes pensive imagery of Frida Kahlo, enchanting wonderment expressed by Carlos Pellier, the timeless  ans ageless beauty of Marion Greenwood, the artistic relections of Diego Rivera and countless aspects and details of unknown people with dramatic results. The accompanying bilingual text is insightful reflections on the art of Lola Alvarez Bravo. The book also includes a chronology of events in her life and a selected bibliography for future reference.  The shadows  of darkness and light intersect in her photographs to reveal her as a true visual art genius, a woman in a mans world well ahead of her time who captured the moment and siezed the time. Recommended for people interested in photography, Mexico  and a person who was a photojournalist, portraitist and political photographer of exceptional talent who documanted the events and people of her times for future generations.	2003-05-22
US	49709123	R7TSHAX8SIINM	0295975709	239071982	Nahum B. Zenil: Witness to the Self (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Contemporary Mexican visual artist	This book was released in conjunction with an exhibition of the artists work at the Mexican Museum in San Francisco. Nahum B. Zenil is a Mexican artist who paints in a very personal style. He has been compared to Frida Kahlo. The comparisons are based primarily on the fact that he is portrayed in his paintings in self portrait  as Frida did. The book also has a very revealing interview conducted originally by Cristina Pacheco for the Mexican press in La Jornada Semenal from 1995 for a different exhibition. In the interview Zenil reflects on his art and interestingly enough reveals that for a long time he was unaware of Frida Kahlo's art and it wasn't until the comparisons were made did he learn about her. As a result he has painted several paintings in which Frida and or Diego Rivera are present which are amazing tributes to the giants of Mexican art. His art may shock some people because several of his self portraits show his genitalia. He also is a gay artist and an advocate of gay rights in macho Mexico. I personally had never seen any art  like this and was taken back by it at first. The majority of reproductions in this book are not of the nude variety but show his original style to be concerned with  various social  and cultural issues. He has a very unique style, although it is quite reminiscent of Frida Kahlo it is still unlike anyhing you have likely seen. The book has a complete listing with media details of the works in the exhibition, a biography and exhibition history , and a short selected bibliography  is included to compliment the insightful interview and colorful reproductions. If you have an open mind I think you will find the art work to be  superb, highly imaginative and  one of the most original detailed expositions of the human spirit. If you want to see a very good self portrait painter in the vein of Frida Kahlo than find his book. Recommended for art enthuisiasts who  are not easily shocked by male nudity.	2003-05-20
US	49709123	RYJO8KVKQF5ZS	0295955376	787756561	The Maya of Guatemala: Life and Dress (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Still the best	As the curator of artemaya has pointed out this is the book to have. I concurr with everything he has said  and find this book indespensible when studying the ancient or modern Maya. Without a doubt this is my favorite book on the subject and even after twenty three years in my possession I still open it up and gaze upon the magnificent pictures. Carmen Pettersen's  paintings were done in the early 1970's and are of the highest  and utmost quality. Her personal observations on the culture reflect her sensitivity to the subject which in turn is refleted in her art. For example, when describing the toursist hot spot Chichicastenango, with its beautiful marketplace and church where pagan and Christian religion is practised, she comments on the &quot;disintegration of this tribe&quot;  and &quot;the complete degeneration of the people who wrote the Popol Vuh&quot; as &quot;the older people and leaders stand fast and steady, suffering silently with sullen hatred in their eyes.&quot; The models used in the book are of such exceptional quality and life like that it is as though they will  begin moving . She depicts her subject matter as strong and proud, in spite of a humbling history of European influence. Pettersen obviously  was in tune with her subjects in art as the expressions on their faces come to life. The details of the clothing are superb and exquisite artistry. The pullouts pages have even more detail as she shows an entire village scene like a marketplace or the people gathered in Chichicastenango. If you are familiar with Maya clothing and the various tribes that continue the ancient traditions, including embroidery sewn with a bone needle, you are probably aware of of colorful  and intricate patterns achieved on these textiles. These are not the products sold to tourists but the authentic attire that the people themselves wear. Nothing is lost  or compromised  in the paintings and are exact reproductions of authentic dress. If you are planing a trip to Guatemala it is highly recommended that you get this book before you go  or if nothing else before you leave country to return home. It is preferable to have the book before so you can understand what you will see as you step back in time and enter the remote jungles and ancient customs of the Maya. This is THE BOOK on the contemporary life and dress in Guatemala. If you have anything more than a passing interest in the people of Guatemala  than this is the book to have, get it NOW, you will not be dissappointed.emala it is highly recommended that you get this book before you go  or if nothing else before you leave country to return home. It is preferable to have the book before so you can understand what you will see as you step back in time and enter the remote jungles and ancient customs of the Maya. This is THE BOOK on the contemporary life and dress in Guatemala. If you have anything more than a passing interest in the people of Guatemala  than this is the book to have, get it NOW, you will not be dissappointed.	2003-05-17
US	49709123	R2QBXG9W8VXE0B	1583940464	208250028	The Deepening Complexity of Crop Circles: Scientific Research and Urban Legends	Books	4	30	31	N	N	Something is going on	If you have reached this page than you probably have more than a passing interest in the subject or phenomena known as crop circles. To take a quote from an old rock and roll( recently also sampled for hip-hop) song by Buffalo Springfield, &quot;Something's happening here , what it is ain't exaclty clear.&quot; The Ph.D author explains some rather peculiar circumstances occurring throughout the globe, including the hoaxes, even those pertetuated by the media to the layman in a pretty easily digestable style. If you are like me, have a rudimentary background in science, not particularly linear in your thinking than this book will serve you well. All sides are presented. There were a few sections with graphs and such that were just a little to scientific for me but worthwhile nonetheless to get better insight into this unknown field that is growing in accumulated data. The book is NOT trying to convince you one way or the other as to the source of these mysterious symbols and the aftermath that results. What the author DOES do is present a concise overview of these occurrences and lets YOU be the judge as to the authenticity of this phenomena that goes obviously  beyond ropes and ladders. There are no answers, some speculation and definitely some  puzzling things going on. Check it out for yourself and YOU be the judge.	2003-05-16
US	49709123	R38NH8M1SHLA69	0938317520	101310733	Vatos	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Ethnic pride	The title \\"Vatos\\" and the picture of the homies on the cover are a little deceptive as this book covers many different men in varied situations. There are also farmworkers, mariachis , Aztec dancers, lawyers, men with their mothers and daughters and children in church included but the vast majority are mostly your stereotypical images of hard core dudes or vatos. These are images of strength, of strangers in a strange yet familiar land. The beauty  of the strength  and yet vulnerability of the young and old men is frozen in time, locked into the moment for future generations. The pride and respect for family tradition, the refusal to assimilate, to stay seperate but within the confines of barrio pride  and the cultural pride glow from these beautiful black and white photographs. The words or the poetry accomapanying the images make for a heartfelt  experience revealing the deep conviction of Pulitzer Prize winning photographer Jose Galvez  and award winning young writer Luis Alberto Urrea. The imagery is touching and gives a glimpse into the ordinary lives of people who have claimed a piece of the American dream through tinted brown glasses, squinting from the shiny veneer of traditonal American life. The vatos portrayed have claimed their own dignity even under undignified conditions. The pictures span decades of time and when you look at them you can't help but speculate about the people in them. When you see a young teenage vato, dressed in typical homie attire, you wonder where he is now  and if his chosen path has  detoured for the better or worse. Looking at the old men, the lines revealing the years , the paths of experience, the eyes looking at you showing the depth of their experiences , you can't help but feel the time lost. This book is a moving visual experience and a great gift idea. If you look closely into the eyes of the vatos you will see the  ghosts of Moctezuma, Morelos, Juarez, Hidalgo and Zapata, shrouded in the flesh of the Huastecs, Olmecs, Maya, Toltecs, Zapotecs and Aztecs, rising from the barrios  and fields of Aztlan to live another day.aya, Toltecs, Zapotecs and Aztecs, rising from the barrios  and fields of Aztlan to live another day.	2003-05-02
US	49709123	R1QEBWBTK1EXL4	0916144801	14582730	The Mayan Design Book (International Design Library)	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Creative stepping stones	If you are even remotely interested in the fascinating culture of the Maya than this book will more than peak your interest. It is not a significant historical document, but rather features some of the most intriguing drawings from the mysterious culture. The drawings themselves are masterful black and white  details of Maya life. The drawings are a young educators dream, the pictures would make good reproductions for distribution for students to use. For students, the possibilities are endless, but one thing that can be done is use them for a mural or enlarged drawings. While teaching, I used these drawings for that purpose and students created giant posters that they worked on in groups in their FREE time during lunch and later were displayed for festive occasions celebrating cultural heritage. Anyway, the drawings are really nice and bold and full of  ideal designs for graphic artists, craftspeople or any type of visual artist to translate into a new work of art. The exotic pictures are not without some written word as the author gives a brief overview of the culture.  The book begins with an excerpt from the Mayan book &quot;The Popul-Vuh. &quot; Each page is numbered in English and Mayan for an addional bonus  for students. An explanation is given regarding the number system and the complex calendar as well as the omens associated with each day. Many of the drawings come from details in the huge stellae, thoses monuments to a forgotten time found in the remote jungles of places like Tikal and throughout the Yucatan and Honduras. The drawing are rich in detail and some require extensive looking  at to &quot;find&quot; all the elements of exotic intrigue. Bits and pieces can be used to create your own design or for an inspiration for something new. A truly fascinating small book with unlimited possibilities for the creative person to unleash their skills.	2003-05-01
US	49709123	R196BH78D2Q264	0595264549	423703325	Conquest Of Paradise: An End-times Nano-Thriller	Books	4	14	16	N	N	"And there will be no escape."	After reading most of the Left Behind books  and several other end times books I found this entry into the genre to be the most refreshing. Enter the NanoTech Age where Jews, Christians, Muslims and Hindus  cannot live in peace, a world where China, the United States  and a United Europe(does it begin with currency?) are all vying for world dominance, where SPIDERS and LOCUSTS are the weapons of control, where the  H.O.L.E. could be an environmentalists dream machine, where  there is a humane shield  and Operation Infinite Justice is rooting out the bad guys. Sound familiar? Some parts are so close to reality that it is hardly fiction. First time author Britt Gillette has created a very engrossing storyline that is bound to captivate audiences with superb mini-plots happening on an international  level. Travel the globe to witness events in Tiananmen Square, the jungles of Guatamala, visit King Solomons Temple as never seen before,  and  witness the transformation of the world as we know it. The book is hauntingly reflective of current events especially in the ever troublesome Middle East. Reading this book during the height of the Iraq War was a bit of a distraction as it made the lines between fiction and reality even more blurred. Considering the War on Terror will continue for a long time the events in the book are bound to continue to strike a parallel with current events in the future as it did now. There are plenty of reviews here that give a synopsis of the book so seek and you shall find. For what it is worth,  my opinion is that the ideas  put forth are extremely thought provoking and intellectually engaging. It is not neccessary to know about nanotechnology but  it helps to at least have a clue. If you are unaware of this on the horizon technology than the book will stimulate you to learn about this potentially world changing technology. This book is a suspenseful, high intrigue thriller with a science fiction touch that is put to the backdrop of the end times. I thoroughly enjoyed the writing style and the character devlopment. The science matter was presented in such a way so as not to bog down the audience in \\"hard science.\\" Rather  the assembler breakthrough revealed a frightening scenario that entertained and created a mood for the story to become a real page burner. Although  not overtly preachy there are passages from the Bible  to start every chapter that coincide with the story. This book is a terrific blend of fact and fiction that could be transformed into a good movie with the proper adaptation. If you like end times books based on prophesy than you will love this book with it's unique twist. The book is both scary  and joyfull in it's message that reflects the best and worst in humanity.  Britt Gillette  has created a wonderfull book that is food for thought in these troubled times. Many of the scenarios presented are developing  or happening now. Definitely recommended good reading now before fiction becomes reality.times. I thoroughly enjoyed the writing style and the character devlopment. The science matter was presented in such a way so as not to bog down the audience in \\"hard science.\\" Rather  the assembler breakthrough revealed a frightening scenario that entertained and created a mood for the story to become a real page burner. Although  not overtly preachy there are passages from the Bible  to start every chapter that coincide with the story. This book is a terrific blend of fact and fiction that could be transformed into a good movie with the proper adaptation. If you like end times books based on prophesy than you will love this book with it's unique twist. The book is both scary  and joyfull in it's message that reflects the best and worst in humanity.  Britt Gillette  has created a wonderfull book that is food for thought in these troubled times. Many of the scenarios presented are developing  or happening now. Definitely recommended good reading now before fiction becomes reality.	2003-04-29
US	49709123	R3V2H7ZYEF4076	0140173226	289109370	Zapata	Books	4	16	18	N	N	&quot;Viva Zapata &quot; movie sketch	This is the actual script Steinbeck wrote for the  movie &quot;Viva Zapata. &quot; Actually, the book is broken up into two parts; part one is complete with John Steinbeck's observations of the Mexican Revolution, the culture and the existing system that allowed Zapata to rise and become a leader. This narrative of Steinbeck's is interspersed throughout the rough initial script.The foundation for the book is featured in part one whereas part two is the actual script. Steinbeck's personal narrative is very interesting and I found his recomendation on who to play the part of the legendary Zapata insightful and accurate in suggestion. He did not recommend Marlon Brando , who was Zapata in the classic movie, but rather wanted a Mexcian actor. He felt that none other than Pedro Armendariz should take the lead. He would have made a great Zapata. Anyway Steinbeck makes many astute observations and demonstrates his affinity for scholarship, as well as his understanding of the Mexican psyche during the turbulent times of the Porfirio Diaz regime. Steinbeck illustrates his scenes with an authentic cinematic brush reflected in his mastery of language. He details the nuances of individuals in the larger scope of an epic historical event, tying all the elements together as only a master story teller can do. Zapata, known as &quot;El Tigre,&quot; is a man of immense stature in Mexcian history and Steinbeck understands this. Zapata comes to life, the illiterate peasant who marries a woman of a higher social status and testifies to his own human frailities.His mythical yet  factual life is accentuated by stories of a currandera who &quot;sees&quot; his life unfolding.  The relationship with his brother Eufemio also shows the respect  Zapata has for family. Zapata the reluctant  but sure leader feels a sense of purpose in destiny alongside other great men who shaped history. Zapata becomes bigger than life; rising to legendary status thoughout the book with anecdotal information based on research, Zapata the man and myth become one indistinguishable person. An excellent book for students to use for research, this book serves as a general guide to the life of Emiliano Zapata. For more in depth analysis  for research,  I would recommend  the outstanding book by John Womack and the equally compelling, if not better work , by Enrique Krauze , which is available in Spanish,  has well as English. If you ever wonder how do classic movies develop check out this book.ed on research, Zapata the man and myth become one indistinguishable person. An excellent book for students to use for research, this book serves as a general guide to the life of Emiliano Zapata. For more in depth analysis  for research,  I would recommend  the outstanding book by John Womack and the equally compelling, if not better work , by Enrique Krauze , which is available in Spanish,  has well as English. If you ever wonder how do classic movies develop check out this book.	2003-04-22
US	49709123	R1J4R1CU7S97GS	0893816817	44921303	Images of the Spirit	Books	5	9	9	N	N	"We-are-others"	First of all lets begin by stating that the images in this book are profoundly beautiful, framed with an incredible eye, the subjects positioned for some remarkably,imaginative imagery and overall some of the most moving photographs I have ever seen. Graciela Iturbide comes to her success with the lense by assisting the master Mexican photographer Manuel Alvarez Bravo in the early 1970's. Graciela Iturbide makes the conections between Mexican Americans in the United States and Mexicans in Mexico. Her photography shows the similarities, the differences and the cultural ties and aberrations reflected in her works. Her photographs of some of the White Fence cholos from East Los Angeles are graphic glimpses of the hard core lifestyle. The pictures have a documentary style, the people come to life,  it seems as though the home girls or vatos are going to say, orale ese, any second. Iturbide is comfortable with her subject matter. In one epic photograph she chooses a relaxed  barfly, cigarette in hand, shot glass near by, sitting in a Mexican dive, with a surreal ,swirled, mural in the background, complete with  religious imagery  and hospital beds, dominated by a headstone that says R.I.P. The religious festivals capture an eerie quality that haunts the viewer. At her best Iturbide juxtaposes various elements in one photograph, contrasting the simplicity, exagerrating  and blurring the lines of reality. The image of a young girl at a quinceniera(celebration fro turning 15) and an ancient old woman in the foreground, while in  the dark background of another room two ghostly youths peer in are typical of the amazing framing Graciela Iturbide achieves. Her ability to position things in a picture is always perfect composition. Her shots evolving around Day of the Dead are magical. In one photograph of a cemetary in Chila, Puebla it is as though the fog is moving in a still picture stirred by the ghosts of the past. Her uncanny ability to create something that is but isn't is surreal. For example, in one photograph entitled \\"Nuestra Senora de las Iguanas,\\" eight iguanas form the crown of an Indian woman from Oaxaca as the picture is shot bust level, from below, with the iguanas looking out at the viewer. These pictures in this book are a look at traditional ways of living and modern life, nature landscapes in natural  and  unnatural states, the duality of culture and a reflection of the Mexican people and a reaffirmation of life. A truly mind blowing set of photographs in beautiful and brutal black and white await your purchase.s surreal. For example, in one photograph entitled \\"Nuestra Senora de las Iguanas,\\" eight iguanas form the crown of an Indian woman from Oaxaca as the picture is shot bust level, from below, with the iguanas looking out at the viewer. These pictures in this book are a look at traditional ways of living and modern life, nature landscapes in natural  and  unnatural states, the duality of culture and a reflection of the Mexican people and a reaffirmation of life. A truly mind blowing set of photographs in beautiful and brutal black and white await your purchase.	2003-04-10
US	49709123	R25RNCCTEAA4XC	082122588X	679013026	Edward Weston: Photography and Modernism	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Photography as art	The fine black and white photography of Edward Weston is featured in this oversized book and is one of those books to viewed over and over.The book also has an extremely satisfying text that highlights some of the phases of his career. The essays lend insight into the man. Of particular interest was the indication that Weston saw his photographic art in the same light as some of the famous Mexican artists of the time like, Diego Rivera, Jose Clemente Orozco and others. He strived to have his art looked at in the same light as those in other mediums. He was drawn to these artists, their culture and their works. The after effects of the Mexican revolution, transformed into a cultural renaissance was his palette. Also discussed was his mingling with artists of his times and his reciprocal affect on fellow photographic artist Tina Mondotti. Weston saw and recognized the art in the everyday lives of the the people, heightened during festivals, especially of a religious nature. He particualrly liked the pulquerias. He also was intrigued by the folk art created by common artisans  and captured these elements with his lens. Although the book is not limited to his Mexican phase, I found this part of particular interest. There are also paintings that were done by his contemporaries with parallels drawn to his work. His nudes are an exquisite honor to the female body and all it's wonderful curves. There are plenty of nudes featured as this must have been one of his favortie subjects. The early works are featured  but his later works are amazing. After 1927 his sojourn to California and his studies of natural forms at the beach and in the sand dunes resulted in some phenomenal images. Also his ability to see erotic imagery in fruit forms is inspiring. If you like the visual arts you will love the works of this master photographer. A great gift book for the camera buff in your life.	2003-04-08
US	49709123	R27IQW7HPGAWF4	1859840663	541158628	The Motorcycle Diaries: A Journey Around South America	Books	4	5	8	N	N	The Dreamer	Click on the image of a young Che sitting in a pensive , relaxed posture as though he is daydreaming. The picture will reveal an image in your mind quite different from the familiar bearded face many have come to associate with Che. The youth and gaze in his eyes is reflective of the book in it's first hand portrayal of a young idealist. The roots of Che's radicalism, that evolved into his believing in Communism and fighting alongside Castro, in Cuba, began with what he saw on a trip he took through South America. His observations on the differences in social classes within various towns shows his astute vision and concern that eventually turned into action.The epic journey Che undetook with his friend is full of anecdotes, frolicking, humor and some keen observations. Setting out from Buenos Aires, Argentina with his best friend, Alberto Granadas, the two start out on a motorcycle along the Atlantic eventually arriving in Caracas , Venezuela. Prior to their departure the first-hand account talks about cutting ties and the lives they left behind . The narrative account makes for a small book that can be read in one sitting or so. In the small time invested an interesting portrait  and adventure awaits the reader. The intimacy of the book is life taking the trip side saddle within Che's mind. Incidently, this book is being transformed for the big screen. The production for a soon to be released movie, directed by Brazilian Walter Salles, with young, Mexican actor Gael Garcia Bernal(&quot;Y Tu MamaTambien&quot; &amp; 'Amores Perros&quot;) taking the lead role of Che. The book is entertaining and worthwhile for those interested in history and those that have shaped history.	2003-03-27
US	49709123	R2EIVK8BGBKWQ2	0295972521	192303555	Elijah Pierce: Woodcarver	Books	5	2	2	N	N	African American Fok Artist	If you are into folk art, African-American cultural contributions, religious themed art, a woodcarver or just someone who appreciates intricate woodcarving details than you will enjoy and should seek this book. Elijah Pierce's sculptures are broken down into various categories including free standing carvings, religious reliefs, secular reliefs and autobigraphical works.  This catologue is from an exhibition from the Columbus Museum of Art that displayed Elijah Pierce's works in 1973, eleven years before his death. They have the largest collection of his works , it features over 200 pieces. His style was unbelieveable, his panels filled with incredible detail, full of emotion, religious fervor and cultural pride. In the book you will see his tribute in wood to sports hero's too like football player Archie Griffin or boxing legend Joe Lewis. Many of the works are patriotic themed , including tributes to Abraham Lincoln. Martin Luther King, The Kennedy's and Paul Revere. One of the things that sets Elijah Pierce apart, besides his technical carving skills, was his colorful painting of the wooden figures or reliefs. He used many different colors including bright solid tones that brought more life into the wood. There are several essays included and the mystical qualities of wood are discusses by him and several  other  woodcarvers. His life is discussed in the essays, including his hardships as well as his successes, with the end result being an intimate portrait of the artist . Being a man of tremendous religious conviction, coming from a strong religious family, a preacher himself, his carvings became his pulpit. The religious fervor in his carvings are amazing and the biblical stories in wood come to life and jump out at you. His \\"Book of Wood\\" is an astounding series of panels bound together and was used on occasion for his sermons but eventually housed in his barbershop where it was the centerpiece of Pierce's art display's. You must find this book to see all the exquisite works of art this master  woodcarver  created, it will astound you in it's simplicity , varied subject matter and  asthetic qualities. Elijah Pierce has left a legacy that should not be missed as  it reflects the everyman qualities of the American spirit. Highly recommended for art enthusiasts, folk art collectors, teachers and especially woodcarvers, as it is very inspirational.exquisite works of art this master  woodcarver  created, it will astound you in it's simplicity , varied subject matter and  asthetic qualities. Elijah Pierce has left a legacy that should not be missed as  it reflects the everyman qualities of the American spirit. Highly recommended for art enthusiasts, folk art collectors, teachers and especially woodcarvers, as it is very inspirational.	2003-03-18
US	49709123	R3LE9I7YIT4WEU	1879128152	814440897	The True Poetry: The Art of Maria Izquierdo	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Mexican Woman Visionary	This book was published in conjunction with Maria Izquierdo's second exhibition in New York, her first being in 1930 when she was the first Mexican woman to have a solo exhibition in New York. Presented by The Americus Society, over which David Rockefeller is the honorary chairman, the exhibition which toured from 1997-98 was to mark the thirtieth anniversary of the Art Gallery of The Americus Society. The works featured by Maria Izquierdo are fine, mostly color  with some black and white reproductions , exemplifying her masterful technique and exquisite eye for detail. The works cover the four decades in which she painted, the 1920's through 1950's with the 1940's being her most productive. You will see her circus paintings of which she was very fond, her self portraits, her unique Mexican cultural glimpses and her surrealist works. Her works are full of vivid displays of color that resulted in many dubbing her style more &quot;Mexican&quot; than her  female contemporary Frida Kahlo. Besides the beautiful reproductions there are three essays that discuss approximatley 25 plates each. Of particular note is the essay by Elena Poniatowski who covers her late period in which Maria was working despite a series of health restricing problems. Ultimately these health problems sent her to the grave at an early age. She died one year after Frida Kahlo at age 53 in 1954. All of the essays are interesting, cover different times of her  life and are very revealing . She was a woman  much like Frida Kahlo, who was ahead of her times in terms of being independent, persuing an art career dominated by men and liberated from the restrictions tradionally imposed by society. As you read you can just imagine the interaction she and Mexican artist Rufino Tamayo must have had as they painted , lived and loved together. Her associations with other contemporary writers and  artists, including Tina Mondotti, Antonin Artaud, Lola Alvarez Bravo and Frida Kahlo among others is also documented and her renowned parties discussed. She was  woman of her age who set the stage for future generations to follow. An excellent  book  that is bilingual and highly recommended for art students. It comes complete with a selected bibliography for future and more extensive reading.and her renowned parties discussed. She was  woman of her age who set the stage for future generations to follow. An excellent  book  that is bilingual and highly recommended for art students. It comes complete with a selected bibliography for future and more extensive reading.	2003-03-18
US	49709123	R1A2KS1SINDR9Z	081956348X	95450699	Devouring Frida: The Art History and Popular Celebrity of Frida Kahlo	Books	4	23	23	N	N	Frida analysis	A fascinating perspective and interpretation of some of Frida Kahlo's most  famous paintings awaits the reader who has patience. I say patience because the book can be a bit overwhelming with more  references than a university thesis. Each page is full of other authors opinions and  quotes who author Margaret A. Lindauer does a marvelous job of threading together. She has an agenda in her writing so you will have to follow her arguments. She does a good job of taking a different approach on occacions from such notable Frida biographers as Martha Zamorra and Hayden Herrera, as well some other more obscure  contributors.  At other times she utilizes their writings to illustrate her points. So what are her points? As Lindauer states, &quot;her investigation has not been directed toward determining &quot;correct&quot; interpretations. Rather I am interested in the consequences of inscribing particular idealogies within distinctinterpretive methodologies, and in consciously selecting theoretical approaches according to the ways in which they revererate with ongoing political negotiations.&quot; The reason I quoted such a long passage, actually a sentence and a few words, is because this gives you a flavor for the writing. This style may not be for everyone. Written like a college textbook there are plenty of juxtapostions, binary relationships, patriarchal presciptions, masculinist discourses, dichotomies and paradigmatic feminie qualities to make sure you keep the dictionary close by. These are some of the more common and easier terms used as she really bogs down the discourse with her use of language.  I consider myself to have a good vocabulary but found myself seeing words I have never encountered before. Since the rather dense style demands so much attention it is also a book that is best read without distractions. Linduaer reexamines Kahlo  and Rivera's relationship, Kahlo's physical and emotional being  and the concept of women being sickly, th surrealist movement as prescibed by men, Kahlo's use of Tehuana dress in political terms and eventualy the cult of Fridamania that was so pervasive in the 90's and continues to this day. So is it a good Frida book? Yes and no, no if this where you are beginning your study of Frida Kahlo  and yes if you have read most books available and are still &quot;Devouring Frida.&quot; All in all it is an interesting examination of Frida but one that will have you scratching your head at times wondering what the heck did she just say. By the same token it is a book that sparks the thought process and lets you know just how esoteric art history can be. Recommended for Fridacoholics only.as prescibed by men, Kahlo's use of Tehuana dress in political terms and eventualy the cult of Fridamania that was so pervasive in the 90's and continues to this day. So is it a good Frida book? Yes and no, no if this where you are beginning your study of Frida Kahlo  and yes if you have read most books available and are still &quot;Devouring Frida.&quot; All in all it is an interesting examination of Frida but one that will have you scratching your head at times wondering what the heck did she just say. By the same token it is a book that sparks the thought process and lets you know just how esoteric art history can be. Recommended for Fridacoholics only.	2003-03-17
US	49709123	R3CXC1ZV9B81IV	0292703090	879288186	The Artist in New York: Letters to Jean Charlot and Unpublished Writings, 1925-1929	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Thoughts on art  and personalities	As far as exciting reading goes this book is for the most part not that entertaining. However, it is memorable in that it goes inside the mind of one of the great Mexican artists of the twentieth century. The intimacy revealed in the letters is a perfect way to get a feel for the concerns and issues confronting Orozco at this particualr juncture in his life. It also is a good way to get a sense of the times both in the Unites Staes  and Mexico.  The letters are those written to his good friend, Jean Charlot, who supported his works throughtout his life. The book, or shall we say, the letters, reveal Orozco's thoughts on the art scene in New York, his relationships with the art world and in general, his day to day existence concerns. When a great artist has passed and we are left with their works we tend to see the greatness and forget the hardships endured to produce such monumental achievemets. His small apartment, really nothing more than a studio, foreign diet  and living in a huge city as a relatively unknown  artist would be enough to break most men. Thus was not the case with Orozco who was coming from Mexico dejected over his lack of mural commisions. Upon  returning to New york where he previously had over one hundred watercolors confiscated by immigration for &quot;lewdness&quot; was heroic, brave and admirable. He went on to create some his most important mural works in the United States. A man of immense talent and courage is revealed in his letters in spite of the hardships. A realtively easy read, the book comes complete with black and white drawings and pictures of his murals that do not give justice to his supreme use of color. These leters from 1925-29 are  a good reference point for you if you are an art student or studyng the life of Jose Clemente Orozco. A drawback is that the letters are only his and not Jean Charlot's responses. A plus is the inclusion of several  hand written Spanish letters on the opposite page of the translations which add to the authenticity. Also included are three former unpublished writtings.Recommended  for the art student who is looking for primary sources.the authenticity. Also included are three former unpublished writtings.Recommended  for the art student who is looking for primary sources.	2003-02-27
US	49709123	R3K77HNIVV0Q7	0842332286	34357729	The Mark: The Beast Rules the World (Left Behind No. 8)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Guillotines, signs and marks	I've had this book since it came out but had to take some time away from the series to see if my jaded perspective was justified. I finally got around to reading another installment of the Left Behind series  and was enjoying the first seventy five pages or so.  As  I continued to read the things that I didn't like before resurfaced to my mind. The margins allow for only about eight words per line and you feel like you are back in grade school. The exciting parts drag on way too long and the characters are unreal, they are transparent and the result is a very predictable outcome to their situations. There is way too much dialogue which makes for an even more simplistic writing style. Of course it is streched out but if you are like me and many more out there you will continue to be hooked. That said I did like the book and continue to like the series in spite of it's flaws. The cast of characters  and familiarity with them makes the book enjoyable. The apocalyptic message is intriguing and the parallels to world events surely make for an interesting novel for our times. Even though it is an easy read I had to put it down because it just wasn't that riveting. Having started the series I feel compelled to finish the series and for the most part even enjoyed this book. If you have to know what is happening to Chloe, Buck Rayford, Tsion Ben -Judah, Chang and the others, including the bad guys Carpathia and Fortunato than by all means get this book. Getting your products scanned at the supermaket will probably never be the same once you read this book. Recommended for Christians mostly but non-believers will probably just love to take some jabs at this book if they read it.	2003-02-27
US	49709123	R1MDRPKN0F4GG5	0826320678	988008996	Orozco in Gringoland: The Years in New York	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Scholarly life and times	Author Alejandro Anreus produces a compelling look at the life and times of Jose Clemente Orozco during hisr stay in New York. The author points out the issues bothering Orozco, his resulting attitude and ultimitely his creative surges.  Orozco, the lesser known of the &quot;tres grandes&quot;(three great) Mexican muralists is brought to life as the brilliant  one armed artist in a foreign land. The book can be a little confusing at times as the time period, issues and art work created  goes back and forth and there is somewhat of  a lack of continuity. It helps to have some background information on the subject for clarity. As a single piece of analysis it is very good. The author draws upon various sources that came before his project. The book is good but like a dress shirt  with too much starch it can be a bit much. Definitely on the scholarly side the book demands your attention and deserves to be read for what it is, an examination of Jose Clemente Orozcos years in New York. If you want an Orozco art book this is not for you, however there are plenty of oversized full color reproduction books available. This is a book to be read  and enjoyed for it's scholarship.	2003-02-18
US	49709123	R2V2HQMHY4NQI	0883635984	740398552	Mexican Art Masterpieces	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Nice Introduction to Mexican Art	Whenever such a subjective titile is chosen such as &quot;Mexican Art Masterpieces&quot; there are bound  to be ommissions and unlikely selections. For the most part this book is a good,quick study, covering in abbreviated form the art of Mexico in four sections: Prehispanic,Viceregal or Colonial, briefly the Nineteenth Century and more extensively the Twentieth Century. Most of the art featured is familiar to those who have even the most remote understanding  and scope of Mexican Art. With just under fifty color plates to cover some 3,500 years of monumental art, as previously stated, this is a good introduction but by no means an exhaustive study. One of the strengths of this book is the one page synopsis given to each piece that gives a history lesson covering the social and political climate,a biography and an interpretation of the art piece pointing out the little details and nuances. The information provided is not earth shattering but helpful nonetheless and is not overly analytical and very easy to follow. The other strength is the magnificence of the chosen pieces, reflecting both ancient and modern themes by Mexican masters. I found it curious that missing from the Prehispanic section were such items  as the  wood carved Aztec drum or huehuetl  from the Toluca Basin, considered by many to be the consumate representation of artistry achieved in woodcarving by the Aztecs or the figure of Chacmool, which is found throughout Mesoamerica, most notably in Chichen Itza  and Tenochtitlan. From the Colonial period there is not  an oil painting by Cristobal de Villalpando , who along with Juan Correa  is considered to be the most represenative from the Baroque period. Surely his &quot;St. John the Evangelist and Mother Maria de Jesus de Agreda&quot; is worthy of being featured. The image of the revered  La Virgin de Guadalupe is also missing from this time period. Miguel Gonzalez's exquisite  oil, gilding and mother-of -pearl inlaid masterpiece,&quot;Virgin de Guadalupe,&quot; which is housed in the Museo Frantz Mayer in Mexcio City should have been included in my humble opinion. From the Nineteenth Century Rodrigo Gutierrrez's &quot;The Senate of Tlaxcala&quot;, housed in the Museo Nacional de Arte in Mexcio City, is also missing. With it's luminous light on the orator and Romanesque posturing it is truly a masterpiece. In the Twentieth Century, Francisco Goitia, considered to be  to be the most Mexican of Mexican painters is nowhere to be found. His landscapes reflecting the turmoil, pathos and beauty of Mexico are absent from this collection of masterpieces. With many works to choose from, his  masterpiece&quot;Tata Jesucristo&quot;(Father Jesus) is one that could easily have been included. These minor discrepencies and personal observations aside, I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the art history  of Mexico. This is a good introductory book to the masterpieces in Mexican Art.lupe,&quot; which is housed in the Museo Frantz Mayer in Mexcio City should have been included in my humble opinion. From the Nineteenth Century Rodrigo Gutierrrez's &quot;The Senate of Tlaxcala&quot;, housed in the Museo Nacional de Arte in Mexcio City, is also missing. With it's luminous light on the orator and Romanesque posturing it is truly a masterpiece. In the Twentieth Century, Francisco Goitia, considered to be  to be the most Mexican of Mexican painters is nowhere to be found. His landscapes reflecting the turmoil, pathos and beauty of Mexico are absent from this collection of masterpieces. With many works to choose from, his  masterpiece&quot;Tata Jesucristo&quot;(Father Jesus) is one that could easily have been included. These minor discrepencies and personal observations aside, I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the art history  of Mexico. This is a good introductory book to the masterpieces in Mexican Art.	2003-02-06
US	49709123	R1SIOCF3ILFWC0	0915478749	293672144	Jose Clemente Orozco: Prometheus	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Epic and powerful art	I was a little put back wondering how so much could be written about one piece of art; then again we're talking a monumental groundbreaking piece, Promethius. At first drawn to the colorful photographs of this fantastic public display I was mesmerized with the brilliance of color, slashing strokes of genius revealing the at once creator and destroyer Promethius. Larger than life, in epic proportions this mammoth contribution  was created by one of the three master muralists of Mexico, Jose Clemente Orozco. The other two muralists being Siquieros and Rivera who would later follow suit and create murals in the United States. The color and black and white pictures of Orozco's art, including some from Mexcio, is worth the price of the book by itself. The book features four rather scholarly essays written over a span of forty-three years. These essays are considered the most important analytical writings on Promethius by Orozco. The book details the origins of this book, the problems and the success in producing a complimentary publication to the major exhibition that came to the United States in 2001of which I was fortunate enough to witness.The aquisition of the original drawings was a struggle but eventually the family relinquished the ownership so that the originals could be with the mural in Pomona College. One of the interesting controversies regarding Promethius was the fact that everything was massive and in colossol proportions, the muscled male nude had everything except for his genitalia which was missing. Throughout it's reign over the dining hall at Pomona College, since 1930, students have had protests over this issue and it has even resulted in vandalism. In spite of the controversy restoration has taken place to guard  and preserve the original integrity of the masterpiece for future generations. Anyway the essays are interesting and thought provoking. Many angles are discussed that deal with the social and historical relevence of Promethius  and as to why Orozco chose him. The actual reproduced art work is an amazing demonstration of brilliance. Many of his other works are featured and discussed as well. The collection of studies for the murals are exceptional embryonic manifestations of the inner workings of creativity. I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the works of Jose Clemente Orozco.y Orozco chose him. The actual reproduced art work is an amazing demonstration of brilliance. Many of his other works are featured and discussed as well. The collection of studies for the murals are exceptional embryonic manifestations of the inner workings of creativity. I would highly recommend this book to anyone interested in the works of Jose Clemente Orozco.	2003-02-03
US	49709123	RC43GHWZ9ZQB9	1903942020	294001276	Ethiopian Art: The Walters Art Museum	Books	5	36	36	N	N	Ethiopian Christian craftsmanship	This is a fascinatinating book that is at once interesting as it is beautiful in imagery. The Walters Art Musuem boasts the largest Ethiopin art outside of Ethiopia alongside a permanent collection of Byzantium and Russian art. The Ethiopian collection in the City of Baltimore is only one part of a museum that builds it's strengths on the art of the eastern Orthodox world. The collective authors give a brief but satisfying history of Ethiopia and its significance in the ancient world  along the Mediterrenean trade route. There is also an overview of daily life and religious practices, art history and the role of the Cross, illuminated manuscripts  and painted icons that rivalved some of the best in the Orthodox world. The written word is essential to understanding the magnificent art that is displayed. If you are interested in icon art you will love this book with it's unique representations. I also found the older wood work to be exceptionally beautiful and intricate in craftsmanship. The results are some of the most beautiful  processional crosses you will probabaly ever see. Later these crosses were made to be more permanent using bronze. Probably equally has impressive are the icon painting and hand made illuminated books that were used for ritualistic purposes in Ethiopion culture. The plates in the book come from the museum catalogue and date from the 4th to the 18th century. The religious nature of the works reflect a combination of African roots and Christian influence. Jesus, Mary and all the saints are painted with distinctively non- Western features. It is unfortunate that there is no cover art availbale on this page otherwise you would be able to see the painting of baby Jesus and the Archangels with small afros as he sits in the arms of Mary.Much of the art is uncredited  and the artist is lost in antiquity and known only as an annonymous painter. The Christian kingdoms art of Ethiopia gets its  deserved recognition alongside the art of Russia and Byzantium in this book. The book features some of the most colorful unique Christian art imagineable. There is also a good bibliography featuring a list of over fifty books for further scholarship. This is the first time this magnificent collection is available in publication and will surely satisfy those interested in icon painting and the art of the Orthodox world.tium in this book. The book features some of the most colorful unique Christian art imagineable. There is also a good bibliography featuring a list of over fifty books for further scholarship. This is the first time this magnificent collection is available in publication and will surely satisfy those interested in icon painting and the art of the Orthodox world.	2003-02-02
US	49709123	R1RYN9YU0WANUO	0452284201	41344406	The Prodigal Project: Book 1: Genesis	Books	4	9	9	N	N	It is written	Using the same formula and capturing much of the same type audience from the Left Behind series this book  has a tad better writing style. The theme is the same as the Left Behind books but in this initial installment the characters who are introduced are multi-dimensional and more \\"real.\\" As in the Left Behind, the book begins with the massive dissapearence of the multitudes of believers leaving people who thought they had faith wondering why they are still here.  Well, of course it is to fight the forces of evil! It is the time of the Rapture. The faithful heroes are cast about and converging to congregate and form the Prodigal Project in this opening book of surely more to come. His evilness is Izbek Noir who has managed to organize the diverse Arab politicians and nations against the encroaching \\"Western repression.\\" The mujahhideen and Izbek Noir has far reaching appeal  as his rhetoric has influenced mobs throughout the world, including Africa and Latin America to threaten the stability of their governments. The growing tension and hordes of followers has the world on the brink. His evilness orchestrates the ultimate attack on his own by attacking Mecca  and blaming the West and thus galvanizing solidarity throughout the Muslim world. Izbek Noir is the equivalent of the charismatic Nicloae Carpathia from the Left Behind books.  On the other side of the spectrum there are other parallels of characters including the Reverand Henderson Smith who is much like Tsion Ben- Judah and serves as the spiritual leader. The world is in utter chaos and the lines have been drawn. Which sign will you identify with? Will you identify with the imbeded bar code chip that will get you your goods or will you be one of the resistant chosen few? It is a fast moving story that is easy to follow and full of intrigue and messages. Towards the end of the book it was getting a little preachy but otherwise it is nice piece of fiction regardng the end times. Recommended for believers and non-believers alike.on-believers alike.	2003-01-31
US	49709123	R1308ZKCX5O26N	0811833925	940301807	NOT A BOOK Hecho En Mexico	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Beautiful and practical calendar	I have been using the Hecho en Mexico engagement caledars since around 1995 and find them to be useful and nice momentos of times present and past. If you look at the sample pages you can determne if this calendar is for you. If you like Mexican culture than this is for you as each page of five or so days has a corresponding photograph of something&quot;tipico&quot; or typically Mexican. The photographs vary in subject but is like a mini-cultural artifact covering such diverse topics as food, milagros, movie posters, playing cards(loteria), restaurant menus, art, folkloric costumes and in general, all  facets of Mexican folklore. This years calendar seems to be more focused on a theme.  The majority of the photographs are dealing with vintage items more than usual which evokes a sense of nostalgia for old, romantic Mexico. Some of the colorful pages are familair imagery but there are plenty of unusual images rarely seen  outside of Mexico. Each month is broken up into about five pages, each page takes up about an equal(5) number of quadrants representing each day for you to write down your commitments. Each day has the saints day. The explanations of the photgraphs, days and months or illustrations are bilingual for an extra little feature. At the end is a section for notes, phone numbers and special dates totaling some ten pages for your convenience. This is a fantastic little calendar for your personal use and to keep after the year is over for the beautiful pictures. Not exactly a business calendar but it is highly recommended for those who have appointments and schedules to meet nonetheless and who are into Mexican culture.	2003-01-30
US	49709123	R1JRUEIB3PD17R	B00005Q7DN	506368621	NBA Inside Stuff Magazine	Books	4	1	1	N	N	B-Ballers Delight	My youngest son has been subscribing to this magazine for several years now and since I read it too, I can truthfully say it is pretty informative. It is a good way to encourage reading in youngsters since the articles are not very long and the reading level is not very difficult. Of course product ads abound which are mosly shoes and there are many a pictorals  but all in all it is a good sports magazine. Since it is a NBA magazine it is interesting to note those stars that are being featured and promoted. His Airness(#23 aka MJ ), Amare Stoudemire, Kobe, Shaq, Tim Duncan, T-Mack,Vince Carter, Byron Russel, Barron Davis and all your favorite NBA players can be found in this publication. Usually a NBA star is featured for an interview in a a section known as favorite stuff . There are drills to practice for the baller, a best photo section where you can see the air and body contortions  and your favorite baller slamming over another giant. My son has become a very knowledgeable basketball fan as a result of this magazine. Recommended for the b-baller in your life.	2003-01-29
US	49709123	R3NES31Y9I4LPX	0811804852	993350497	Frida Kahlo: Brush of Anguish	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Get the Spanish version	This edition is a pretty good overview of Frida's life with some outstanding colorful reproductions of her works. There is also a very satisfying collection of photographs, both in black and white and color, to cure the voyeur in you to see Frida as she really lived. For example, if you enlarge the back cover shot here you can see the cigarette in her left hand that she was  apparently  usually without. If you thought it was only the pain of her life that resulted in very few photographs of her smiling think again. The results of her heavy smoking habit produced a poor set of teeth that were blackened and not very flaterring; hence the rare smiling picture. The book has some rare photographs, including one of her laughing and her hideous teeth. The text is easy to follow and gives a whirlwind tour of Frida's life, complete with recollections by friends and other anecdotes. Included is a chronology, list of illustrations and  a selected bibliography.  My big complaint about this book, and it may you serve you if you are able to read Spanish, is that it is a short version of the original. I have run down a copy of the original Spanish book, \\"Frida: El Pincel de la Angustia\\" and it is highly recommended over this translated version. I cannot over state this recommendation . This version is almost like an abridged text by comparison. Case in point, the original has nearly four times as many pages! The abundance of pages is not filler either as it has many more photographs, paintings and more importantly, text. If you hunt around you can find the original at an affordable price. All in all this is a good addition, but not edition, to your library on Mexcian Art or personal Frida Kahlo book collection.	2003-01-21
US	49709123	R3QFQMA60OLIMB	0486269388	849525104	My Art, My Life: An Autobiography	Books	4	37	38	N	N	Fact and Fiction	This book is a mixture of fact and fantasy, the real real and imagined world as conjured by the mind of Diego Rivera as told to Gladys March. The invention of facts, the fabrication of the bits of truth to create a colorful story are the result of a newspaper interview that flourished into a series of interviews over many years. Beginning in  1944 and continuing until his death in 1957 Gladys March spent several months each year collecting over 2000 pages of notes that  eventually formed the basis of this book. As another customer reviewer stated this is not the place to start when you reading about the life of Rivera since the lines between fact and fiction are blurred at best. A more accurate picture can be found in \\"dreaming With His Eyes Open\\" by Patrick Marnham. If you have a foundation in the life and times of one of the great Mexican artists than this book reflects a colorful  and imaginative mind. The brillance of his art aside Diego reveals himself and makes no excuses for the parts of his pesonality that are less than desireable. He talks about his experiment in cannanbilsm, witchcraft, his blaphemous treatment of religion and the church, the communist party, his relationships with world leaders, artists and women, his advetures in Europe, the United States  and Mexico, his troubles and ills , including his bout with cancer of the penis and in general the things that made his life as large as his physical presence.  A very entertaining book that is easy to read  because each small chapter deals with an extensive period of his life. All in all this is a good book to compliment other books on Rivera to get an even more accurate but distorted view of his brilliance. Included are several pictures  and paintings from throughout his life. The man , the myth and the artist are here for you to decipher the truth and paint your own picture.	2003-01-20
US	49709123	RW4J9RR63PGRE	0517592355	813746059	Frida's Fiestas: Recipes and Reminiscences of Life with Frida Kahlo	Books	5	29	29	N	N	&quot;Viva La Vida&quot;	In this beautiful, lavishly photographed book, the celebratory life of Frida Kahlo is recreated month by month. Each chapter covers a joyous cause for festivity beginning with the month in which Frida and Diego Rivera were wed in August. Prior to the chronoligical following of a month in the life of Frida, the daughter of Diego invites you and entices you to join her in her recollections of the joyous side of Frida's life. Guadalupe Rivera, professor of law and also a writer under the name Guadalupe Martin recounts her life experiences  and memories based on  her early years as a witness to life in the Kahlo/Rivera household. The unabashed sunny account sets the table, so to speak, for the culinary delights. The reading is insightful and for the most part not a rehash of other accounts available , most notably the definitive(now with Selma Hayek on the cover) Hayden Herrera biography or the nearly as compelling book by Martha Zamora entitled The Brush of Anguish. The writing is concise and gives a glimpse into the life of Frida based on  short vignettes providing you with an intimate portrait. You will find the stories delightful and complimentary to the fabulous photographs. The full color pictures are works of art. It is not just the colorful plates and settings but the entirety of the photographs. Each is magnificent, the design and layout of each picture is a testament to Mexican photographer Ignacio Urquiza, whose works have illustrated several cookbooks. The sumptous and exotic dishes are only part of the beauty. The settings and location of the photographs are visually stunning. You are allowed to take a peak into the house in Coyoacan, complete with antiques and recreated table settings. You can also see some of the places Frida enjoyed visiting such as the floating gardens of Xochimilco. All in all this is super book with fantastic recipes and easy to follow directions to create your own festive occasion. It is an excellent cookbook . Highly recommended for your culinary delights. This book will help you celebrate with cuisine from Mexico  and give joy as Frida entitled her last painting, &quot;Viva La Vida.&quot;your culinary delights. This book will help you celebrate with cuisine from Mexico  and give joy as Frida entitled her last painting, &quot;Viva La Vida.&quot;	2003-01-11
US	49709123	R2EXGW8I997JIU	1880508001	756390061	Leonora Carrington: The Mexican Years : 1943-1985	Books	4	21	22	N	N	Visions of the unknown	If you click on the picture of this book you can get glimpse into the Surreal art of this fascinating British artist who emigrated to Mexico early on in her career. The front and back covers are a detail from a piece created in 1963 entitled El Mundo Magico  De Los Mayas which was commioned for the then new Anthropology Museum in Mexico City. This particular piece was eventually moved to Tuxtla Guiterrez, the capital of the state of Chiapas. The complete mural, featured in the book, is a mystical journey that is reflective of this creative artist. Her imagery is finely layered, producing glimpses into the seen and unseen of the world. This book was published on the occasion of an exhibition in San Francisco at The Mexican Museum entitled The Mexican Years 1943-1985. In that regard it is more of a catologue which features the art from the exhibit. However, it more than just pictures as it gives a brief overview of a truly fascinating life including a chronlogy. The book takes the reader on a magical ride through her upbringing in priviledge, her schooling in a castle built by Henry VIII under the tuteledge of nuns who were perplexed by her questions, such as, &quot;Who said 2+2=4.&quot; Needless to say ordinary education and a mundane life were not to be. The book tells the story of a woman ahead of her times who ran off with Max Ernst, writes a book which Ernst illustrates and begins a career as a writer and artist. Drawn to Surrealism, her roots are reflective in her art with a mixture of Celtic mythology and Christian imagery; that coupled with the influences of her life in Mexico result in some stunning creations. Her psychic and cosmological thematic works are a exploration of the inner working of an intuitive artist whose bold expressions set the stage for her to associate with Frida Kahlo and Remedios Varo and be at the forefront of women in art. One of the highlights of this book is the interview by Paul De Angelis which reveals the woman in complete candor as she explores her belief systems that lie outside Western rationalism. I only wish this book were bigger. I would recommend this book to a collector,or someone interested in the life and  works of  Leonora Carrington.s she explores her belief systems that lie outside Western rationalism. I only wish this book were bigger. I would recommend this book to a collector,or someone interested in the life and  works of  Leonora Carrington.	2003-01-06
US	49709123	R3C9XOMY3FPK76	076270733X	939997550	The Virgin Internet Music Guide: Version 1.0	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Music net refrence	This tiny palm sized book is the perfect companion for your laptop on the go or your pc at home when it comes to getting information about music on the net. Covering a variety of subjects, one of the most useful elements is the listing and descriptions of obscure and not so obcure web sites relating to the music biz via the net. This little book clarifies technical infromation in a simplified style so you too can speak computer geek. If you are looking for a cyber community with musical artists being the common thread you will probably be able to find the fan or ant-fan site here. Some of the stuff is pretty funnny even if you are not into bashing others. The ever changing world of e-commerce is explored among other topics and although the cyber biz is changing as rapidly as dot coms go out of business it is an interesting read. If you like to shop for the best prices on your music there is a good site suggested, if you can't remember the name of a song except for a few didies there is a site suggested to help you fill in the blanks and bolla, a title is produced! There is something for every kind of music, from world to country and everything in between.Although the book is several years old most of the information and websites are still valid. A simple yet comprehensive guide to everything(well almost) music on the net. Recommended for people with time on their hands who need direction for music related topics, genres etc on the ever changing net. Cleverly written, the people at Virgin have made an entertaining piece of pulp to accompany you while clicking your way through the net.	2003-01-05
US	49709123	R18SCYCGSRS6VA	1574884050	193887542	Santa Anna: A Curse Upon Mexico (Military Profiles)	Books	4	21	22	N	N	"Most Serene Highness"	When I got this book the Mexican-American woman who sold it to me had a disgusted look on her face,\\"Why do you want to read about him.\\" Feeling that she had about as much affection for him as most have for Hitler I told her simply ,\\"because he was a bad guy\\", to which she nodded and approved. I took my book sheepishly but unappologeticly. As I began to read I became fascinated rather than disgusted with the man. Given the circumstances of  early  Mexico , fresh from a break with Spain, this poor country needed a unifying Caudillo and Santa Ana was the man to run the country, 11 times as a matter of fact!  The author explains the poitical times quite apptly and summarily.This is a book that can be read in one sitting or over several short reading periods. Concise and informative it delivers a portrait of a man destined to rule, often by ruthless and self serving means who although not detailed apparently enjoyed cockfighting tremendously  and loved to gamble. In spite of his eventual bad guy role in Mexican(and U.S.) history he was able to resurface over and over because of his cunning guile and military achievements. The author has done an outstanding job for the armchair historian, bringing the man to life vivdly with pages of details on his \\"achievements\\" without taking a stance. I could not be so kind. The portrait of the ruthless Caudillo is given in terms of his military achievements and their impact on history, specifically between Mexcio and the U.S. Most famous to Americans for the Alamo he is more well known and detested among Mexicans on both sides of the border as the sellout who conceded the vast territories that included California,Texas aand other pats of the southwest, including lands sold in the Gadsen Purchase. Eventually this man got what he deserved as he died poor after squanderng away the millions he stole from the Mexican people but the damage he did changed the destinies of two countries. Recommended for a quick read on an interesting but detestable character who is responsible for the growth of one nation and the schrinking of another.  The footnotes abound like a college text, which is helpful if further reading is needed but the bibliography is the real gem and is quite exceptional and extensive. Recommended for history buffs.stable character who is responsible for the growth of one nation and the schrinking of another.  The footnotes abound like a college text, which is helpful if further reading is needed but the bibliography is the real gem and is quite exceptional and extensive. Recommended for history buffs.	2003-01-04
US	49709123	R1BRASYO46JVYZ	0028647904	470025973	The John Coltrane Companion : Five Decades of Commentary (Companion Series)	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Written word about JC	This is an informative book for anyone interested in one of the jazz giants of all times. The book is  of particular interest if first person narratives are to your liking since there are several sections with Trane talking about his music. For example, the interview for the Jazz Review in 1958 is as free flowing as the notes that blow through his horn. Also useful is an interview he did for a French magazine entitled Jazz Magazine where his international appeal comes forth. I also enjoyed the interview with Frank Kofsky where Trane explores topics such as Black Nationalism and the then current(60's) social and political relationship between music and politics.  There are several sections taken from Downbeat Magazine and notable profiles by Ira Gitler, Ralph Gleason and Nat Hentoff. Although not limited to interviews the book also has various writers give the usual and unusual analysis of his music;  there are recolllections from associates in the form of praise and critique. The other sections that deal with reviews of his concerts are interesting but not as riveting as the man in his own words. The breakdown of the recording periods is concise, factual and informative, as is in general the layout and organization of this  book . Not  intended as a biography this book does a good job of revealing Trane through the eyes of others as well as himself. Recommended for those  wanting to go beyond the music; the man in his own words reveals the gentle giant of the saxophone.	2002-12-24
US	49709123	RZ6YB6P23VY2E	0860916049	561089186	Mexican Postcards (Critical Studies in Latin American and Iberian Culture)	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Cultural Chronicles	Having read some of Monsivais works in Spanish, including his thoughts as reflected in the Mexican press, I was extremely pleased to see a book of his finally available in the English language.This book is written with the sharp, critical eye of Carlos Monsivais whose commentary on Mexican culture is astounding and full of insight. Monsivais reflects in his unique style; part history lesson, part social commentary,  his analysis of  events leads the reader to draw their own conclusions as he plays devils advocate and torch bearer all at once. With a keen eye for historical significance he portrays the icons of society in their greater majesty, their ultimate place in history, their affect on the mores and values of society at large. He goes one step further illustrating the consequences of the media and the political machines behind the people  and the images  and their lasting effect on the minds and hearts of the  Mexican people. He tackles a variety of subjects including the literary works of Juan Rulfo, the  lovely matinee idol, Dolores Del Rio,  the everymans comic, Cantinflas, with his legendary ability to say so much and never say anything and the lexicon of the pachuco via the verbal collage of Tin Tan. Monsivais does not just limit his analysis to the field of entertainment as he examines religion and  the role of the Boy Fidencio, Guadalupismo and Chrsitianity. Naturally  he critiques the government, its contemporary leaders as well as historical figures and even examines the  Zapatistas. No part of society is sacred  as he lends criticism to many subjects dear to many peoples hearts including the romantic bolero. Of particular interest is his scathing view of Mexico's penchant for gory details in the tabloid press where daily one can find a picture of  dead person lying in the street with the bloody headlines screeming at you to come closer and take a look. I thoroughly enjoyed this book and found the author to  give  a  fasinating peek into Mexcian culture. If you are interested in Mexcian culture I would recommend this book. If you read Spanish I would also recommened his articles in the Mexican press and two books of note, \\"Amor Perdido\\"  and \\" Rituales del Caos\\" where he does much of the same only examining other aspects of Mexican society.re. If you are interested in Mexcian culture I would recommend this book. If you read Spanish I would also recommened his articles in the Mexican press and two books of note, \\"Amor Perdido\\"  and \\" Rituales del Caos\\" where he does much of the same only examining other aspects of Mexican society.	2002-12-06
US	49709123	R19BB25Q1FW866	0816517061	746624357	Tarahumara: Where Night is the Day of the Moon	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Hauntingly beautiful	In the northwestern portion of Mexico, in the mountains known as  the Sierra Madre Occidental live the legendary Tarahumara. This is an indigeneous group who have been one of the most successful to resist the onslought of western civilization,  beginning with the Spaniards conquest and continuing to this day. Seeing the pictures in this book is like taking a step back in time; they are a culture spared the shadow of time. The Tarahumara are known for maintaining their customs and traditions in spite of of an ever encroaching civilization and tourist trade. The Tarahumara are phenomenal runners who traverse , climb and descend the mountains that reach 9,000 ft. beginning as children and contuinuing into old age. Known for their long distance running they are incredible endurance machines that come from a genetic pool that used to carry letters 600 miles! A contemporary good runner can run  forty miles  with a steady pace over six to eight hours. This book is a fabulous tribute to the majesty of a proud people, complete with over forty color plates  and nearly as many powerful black and white photographs. The book is not only a picture book but has a marvelous text  that explains and details how this group has endured the harsh  natural conditions as well as the invasion of &quot;outsiders&quot; who tried to indoctrinate them with religion and cultural mores. The simplicity of their home construction in the ranchos and the traditions that continue are an anthropoligsts dream. Some of the cultural traditions are fascinating and a wonderful testament to mankind. This is a good book to read prior to a visit to Mexico and journey along the Copper Canyon. The book aIso includes a bibliography and a glossary for further clarification and further knowledge. I would recommend finding the hard cover edition that is out of print if possible because the photographs are amazing and timeless reflections of a distant and persistant people. The color and black and whote plates are as magnificent aas the people they depict. The oversized edition is a cultural treasure. Regardless of the edition I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the people known as the Tarahumara who believe that a mans soul dreams and is manifested and works  in mysterious ways at night while his body sleeps.s magnificent aas the people they depict. The oversized edition is a cultural treasure. Regardless of the edition I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the people known as the Tarahumara who believe that a mans soul dreams and is manifested and works  in mysterious ways at night while his body sleeps.	2002-11-28
US	49709123	R4NFL8Z1G8CMN	0873587189	740082118	The Saint Makers: Contemporary Santeras y Santeros	Books	4	14	14	N	N	Saints in wood	This is a really beautiful book that features the works of some forty New Mexico artists. The featured artists are those that work  with wood as wood carvers. Each artist has at least one piece featured, some with multiple examples of their artistry. The contemporary artists in this book are those that create bultos and retablos which have a long standing tradition in the southwest, predominatelyly in New Mexico.  These beautiful offerings to the various saints can be found in many homes as well as houses of worship. Each artist gets one or two pages and a short biography  which gives good background information on the artist, including their accomplishments in the field. Some of the artists are the more well known , like Charlie Carillo but there are many talented artists for your discovery. The daughter of legendary  wood carver and santero(one who makes saints) Felix Lopez is featured and her work is as lovely as she is. One of the more interesting aspects of this book is that these artists have revived the tradional methods that were used centuries ago  utilizing gesso and  natural pigments. There are a variety of styles, including the application of tin and gold leaf for some stunning results. This is a truly inspiring book that  is a marvel. I'm so grateful to have this book and always look it over and seem to learn something new everytime I view it. Included is a complete gallery and museum guide, that includes adressess and phone numbers  where the artists work can be found or has been featured. Also there is a comprehensive list of each and every artist and how to contact them, suggested books on the subject, a glossary of terms and saints. A fantastic book to get as a gift or to give someone, this book is a treasure for those that love the arts of the southwest.	2002-11-26
US	49709123	R25U2WEQJYC153	1561733113	183022373	Chevrolet 1955-1957	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Classic American Cars	This is like a wish book; I wish my car looked as nice as these restored beauties. All of the displayed cars are show quality and perfect serving as a good model for your own personal ambitions or visions for your vintage car. This book serves as a very useful resource if you have one of these classic American cars because it features many details about your particular model. Most people assume that if you have one these classic  cars that it would be a Bel Air but the models vary and only the person in the know can distinguish the features that make one model different from another. Considering that there are not that many pages in this book it packs a wallop with information.When these 3,000 lb. steel road beasts roamed the hiways you could buy one NEW for under $2,000 fully loaded! Included are production details, the history behind the models,  including pictures of never mass produced protypes, the color schemes, engine availability, information on options, complete specifications, you name it, this book pretty much covers it all. I found this book to be very helpful for determining facts about my particular 56 Chevy which is a 210 Sport Sedan(I get nice Bel Air all the time) that incidently had a limited production of only 16, 000 cars.  it als ohelped to see what  things my model was missing.This book is very  useful for the hobbist, car enthusiast or anyone who loves the classic Chevy years 1956-1957. If you can find this particular book it is worth it , besides, it has the credibility of the editors from Consumer Reports.	2002-11-24
US	49709123	R2I8T4RHQDHD8V	0140268766	161343405	Tinisima	Books	4	6	8	N	N	A heroine's life	I found this book to be a wonderful historical novel where prolific writer Elena Poniatowski blurs the lines between fact and fiction leaving you believing more than doubting the accuracy of the stories. As you read this book you will go back in time, to a time of Communist idealism that was creeping into Mexico, especially it's artists ideals, specifically the circle surrounding Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo. More of a backdrop to the time period the book does not dwell on the relationship between Frida and Tina. It does however explore the Communist movement in Mexico right after the Mexican Revolution. Mostly the book explores the romantic life of Tina in her pursuit of a better society for mankind that takes her globe trotting from nation to nation, from one hot spot to another, hiding and seeking refuge, eluding police and authorities all the while in her quest for an ideal vision. Much of the book evolves around the time Tina spent in Spain during the Spanish Civil War. This along with her devotion to the men of her life including but not limited to photographer Edward Weston, Cuban communist Julio Mella and agent Vittorio are the passions that fueled her incredible life. Each chapter has a small black and white photograph from Tina Mondotti's archives. If you have never seen her photographs it is worth checking out. I have another book that features her photographs in Mexico and they are superb reflections of a time now only found in the remotest corners of Mexico. The story in this book has Tina accused of murder, implicated in murder or assassination, deported only to resurface and genrally moving about the globe on various passports and identities. Although this is a romantic version of her clandestine life it is based on thorough research. Incidently, in the current film version of Frida, Ashley Judd plays Tina in the torrid tango dance scene between her and Frida which reults in one of the more memorable visuals of the movie. Elena Poniatowski is a skilled writer who lets her passions dictate her style and the result is powerful image as to who the shadowy Tina Mondotti was. I would recommend this book to those that like historical novels, the Spanish Civil War, Mexico or the intrigue and story behind one of the most fascinating womens life in the early days of Communist spies . This is a grand novela featuring an extraordinary and intimate portrayal of a passionate woman.skilled writer who lets her passions dictate her style and the result is powerful image as to who the shadowy Tina Mondotti was. I would recommend this book to those that like historical novels, the Spanish Civil War, Mexico or the intrigue and story behind one of the most fascinating womens life in the early days of Communist spies . This is a grand novela featuring an extraordinary and intimate portrayal of a passionate woman.	2002-11-24
US	49709123	R1PHTBM6T1R1R	0762405937	19204859	Faith, Hope, and Light: The Art of the Stained Glass Window	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Light=Love	This is book for those moments of quite contemplation. When the world seems chaotic and despair seems to be the order of the day, and there seems to be no remedy, this book will provide you with joy.  As you reflect upon the quotes from the people of diverse time periods and backgrounds you will see the common thread throughout history;  faith , hope and light. Each page has a beautiful stained glass window from some house of worship, museum or private collection from various corners of the world. The colorful illuminations are magnificent and date from early Christendom to contemporary  art all reproduced in exquisite detail. On the opposite page are quotations  in big bold letters. The sayings are thought provoking,concise reflections on our purpose on this planet and our relationship to the seen and unseen. The themes are organized around the title of the book with the exception of love replacing  light. The art work from the stained glass windows is only half the treasure of this book as the sayings are at times profound. Some of the simple examples from the book  are as follows: from Love; &quot;Love in its essence is spiritual fire,&quot; Emmanuel Swedenborg(1868-1772), from Hope; &quot; Laugh and grow strong,&quot; St. Ignatius Loyola (1491-1556), from Faith ; &quot;People see God every day, they just don't recognize him &quot; Pearl Baily (1918-1990). These are some of the shortest quotes  and very typical of the diversity . The sayings come from the unknown and known figures of time. I would recommend this book to you , to share with a family member, to give as a gift for a special person in your life, to spread the interchangeable terms of light and love. This is a good book to have near and read often, to look at the wisdom and common thread that binds all mankind.	2002-11-22
US	49709123	R5T411B9L26P2	9686533230	859680213	El Tequila Arte Tradicional De Mexico	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Really a magazine	An exceptional piece of pulp that is actually more of an  oversized glossy magazine than an actual book. El Tequila is a piece of art. Artes de Mexico is a revived beautiful book like magazine that began exploring the arts of Mexico in 1953 with an eight year quiet period before starting up again in 1993. All of the issues are considered collectors items because of their limited circulation and extreme beauty. Published six times a year the laborious efforts reflect quality.This particular issue is a magnificent edition focusing on various aspects of tequila and it's culture. The magazine has a number of historical photographs including some from black and white movies in which tequila is featured. Like all of the issues of Atrtes de Mexico it is in a bilingual format. The Spanish version is more extensive in the front and the English translations in the back has another set of pictures that aren't as grand to compliment the text. i think of it as a bonus, an estra set of photographs. The thick paper and oversized photgraphs make for some magnificent examples of tequila and the culture that exists around it. There is a gallery of seven spectacular photographs that illustrate the true art of tequila. There is another section that shows the various old labels that were used on tequila brands that is quiet interesting. However the section on visits to the different production fields of tequila and the distilation process is the best. If you are into tequila, Mexico and it's culture than this is a good magazine to add to your collection. It is one of those magazines that should be bound in leather for posterity as a keepsake. I own several in my modest collection and am constantly looking for new copies to add to my collection. I found this particular issue in an art store in Mexicothis past summer and was very pleased with the contents. I would recommend this magazine and any other of the editions in the Artes de Mexico collection.	2002-11-12
US	49709123	R2FCWFHSE3ET27	0500278245	496948198	Arts of the Amazon	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Gift of the birds	With the ever encroaching Western civilization and corresponding shrinking Indian population of the Amazon the result has been  a diminishing indigenous culture.  Along with the collection itself this book helps to preserve those artifacts from the Amazon. This beautiful book  shows off the collection  of Adam Mekler who has probably the best collection of it's kind in the United States. Since much of the art of the Amazon is consumed by the environment and made from items suseptible to decay, such as wood, animal feathers, cloth and fibers it is important to preserve these windows into the souls of their makers. This book is primarily a picture book, filled with magnificnet colorful photographs, many of which are full pages. The book relies heavily on the feather work created from the birds of the Amazon such as parrots, mackaws and hummingbirds. The items shown in the book are headdresses, dance costumes, necklaces, various ornaments  and  other artifacts associated with ceremonies.  Many of the pieces are those used in shamanistic rituals. The text is brief but the explanations for the various pieces illustrate the use of the items  quite well. The explanation of the South Amerindian beliefs in a perfect hidden reality behind the perceptible and imperfect world  that is accesssed through altered states of awareness is pretty good. The transformation comes about by doning the costumes of the spirits and animals and thus joing them. Although from a laymens perspective these practices seem novel ,  the doning of costumes is much more as the adornments are an armor revealing status through the power accrutements. The text is extremely interesting and worth reading rather than just glossing over because of the abundance of beautiful photographs. I would recommend this book to anyone who loves the indigenous arts of  America, specifically the Amazon, it's people and their culture. More than a picture book, this is a glimpse into the known unknown of the many surviving tribes of their dissappearing and distinctive cultural and linguistic traditions.tribes of their dissappearing and distinctive cultural and linguistic traditions.	2002-11-07
US	49709123	R1QOEWW45G33SE	0789206218	190819233	Tequila: The Spirit of Mexico	Books	4	10	10	N	N	Myths, facts and incredible pictures	The book begins  with an excellent introduction by Mexican soclal commentary critic at large Carlos Monsivais. His thoughts set the groundwork for a book that is not only beautiful  but fascinating. The contributing authors have worked together to produce a table top book that is  interesting and a spectacular visual delight. The highlight of this book is the superb photographs by Michael Calderwood ; he shows his love for Mexico through his absolute stunning photography. The book has a sprinkling of information from various areas of interest on the subject of tequila. Beginning with  a clarification on the myths surrounding tequila and it's source, the book is  lucid, entertaining and  informative. Reading this book is like taking a journey, discovering  the past , present and future of tequila and the culture surrounding Mexico's national drink. The history discussed is interesting but covered only slightly for nice light reading.  Included is the process of extracting the liquid and fermenting this traditional drink that is steeped deep in the culture. Other drinks are discuused for clarification , most notably pulque and mezcal. I found the procees of extracting and making the liquid most interesting. Much of the book is devoted to discussing the top brands, many of which are hard to find but for the dedicated aficionado obtainable. Included are recipes that have made tequila known besides the  classic international margarita. In short, there is something to learn by most people in this book. If you are interested in knowing a little something about tequila than  get this book. An excellent introduction to the subject that has pictures worth the price of the book. For those that would like to read this book in Spanish there is a version available. So, get this book, sit back, serve yourself  some anejo, sip and enjoy the trip through Mexico  and the areas that produce tequila.	2002-11-05
US	49709123	R1UPVQQWNIM7ZH	0877017816	745375991	Arts and Crafts of Mexico	Books	4	21	21	N	N	Colorful treasures	This is a book that is both visually appealing and highly informative. If you are one who is drawn to the beautiful folkloric arts of Mexico that are steeped deep in tradition, dating back and inspired by pre-colombian culture, than this is a book for you. The color photographs are eye candy to be consumed frequently not just when the book is read. Since many different types of arts are covered this is the type of book that can be read over an extended period of time if so desired. Since one of the authors area of expertise is the textile arts, she dedicates about a third of the book to the colorful weavings of distinct groups from different regions of Mexico. All of the sections covered are interesting and it is a matter of taste but I found the section on the  Ceromonial and Euphemeral Arts of  Mexico of partcular note. This chapter covers the other worldly art of the Huichols amongst others. If you are a craftsman,artist or collector than these pages will light up your interest or fuel your imagination. Also of particular interest is a map and several pages on Mexico's indegenous people which is a nice introduction to the featured artisians. Recommended for those that appreciate the stunning and colorful arts of Mexico and like a brief yet  informative explanation of the featured plates shown. This is an amazing panoramic view of the intricate workings of Mexico's highly skilled artisians.	2002-11-01
US	49709123	R12QXQTU93ZAN8	081092160X	985986050	Art of the Huichol Indians	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Authoritative source	If you are interested in the Arts of the Huichols and their sacred rituals than find this book. I've looked over several books offered in Mexico and the United States on the Huichol and have found that this book is still king. I  visited their cultural center in Nayarit this past summer and what is offered now pales by comparison.  This book is  written in a style that is like a sociological study at times but the case studies are fascinating and worth reading. The author covers the religious use of peyote and the often drug induced weavings that result from their visions. Although the ritualistic use of peyote and their yarn paintings are some of the things the Huichol are known for, the book is much more complex and delves into the social structure of the group as well. There are many color plates and black and white photographs that lend a realism to the book . The various contributing authors take the reader on a journey with them into the world of the shaman, including his initiation and rituals.  There is a very intersting chapter that deals with acculturation and economics. This is an extremely beautiful book that will please the senses for years. Recommended for those interested in one of Mexico's indigenous groups that has resisted the onslought of European culture for centuries.  Buyer beware, if you find this book you may get spoiled with the other offerings out there on the Huichols of Mexico. Recommended for seekers of knowledge of a seperate reality and the magnificent Art of the Huichol Indians.	2002-11-01
US	49709123	R1JY44RZHW4YNJ	1558850910	265394059	Song of the Hummingbird	Books	3	10	12	N	N	The confession	An old  Mexica woman confesses her &quot;sins&quot; to a Spanish priest and the clash of cultures is retold and relived by the two characters once again. For my tastes this book lacks a punch and hence is less than riveting reading.  There are several reviews here, including the editorial feature that give a synopsis but most fail to see the transparency of the writing. I did enjoy the book but could never feel so engrossed that I had to read bunches at a time but rather heard the &quot;confession&quot; of Huitzitzilin, or hummingbird, as she delivered it , in sessions. Since this is a novel I feel more liberty should have been taken to enrich the story although  the &quot;factual&quot; information that was from  an indigenous pespective was interesting. I would recommend this book for someone who is just beginning to learn about the conquest of Mexico because there is nothing Earth shaterring here. If you'd like more in depth perspectives of the conquest from an indigenous point of  view I  would recommend &quot;The Broken Spears&quot; , also &quot;Aztec Thought and Culture&quot; and &quot;Native mesoamerican Spirituality&quot;  by Miguel Leon- Portillo. Also you might try the excellent history &quot;The Discovery and Conquest of Mexico&quot; by Bernal Diaz del Castillo which  is an eyewitness account(1568) from a sympathetic  Captain. All in all the book was entertining but less than satisfying. Since the language is not  too challenging it is appropriate for young readers.  School age kids, either middle or high school children, especially  those who are bilingual  might  really enjoy this story that is part fact and fiction	2002-10-29
US	49709123	R581E2B0DP6GW	0679008543	155376260	Fodor's Mexico 2002: The Guide for All Budgets, Updated Every Year, with a Pullout Map and Color Photos (Travel Guide)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Beyond the tours	I found this book to be pretty helpful to cross reference with other travel aids during a recent trip to Mexico. Although it claims to fit all budgets it seems to lean more towards the high end traveler, although this could just be state of tourism now. They cover all the major geographic regions with a heavy emphasis on all the popular destinations.  There are plenty of tidbits for the road, several maps, the brief history of your destination and the impact of tourism in recent years. It's all here, emergency numbers, car rentals, taxis,  air travel, tours, boat and ferry information, travel agencies and visitor information, and for those like me that need a cyber fix , internet providers! Really there is probably more information than you'll need but I guess they try to cover all the bases. They even provide a rudimentry vocabulary lesson in a section that has other \\"smart tips.\\"  The format is simple and pretty accurate with restaurants being rated  for your pocketbook with $-$$$$. All the symobls used are pretty self explanatory but for those that need an explanation there is a key to the symbols used. One complaint I have is that I wish it were a bit more visual with scenery or drawings of the place you are thinking of venturing out to. In defense of the book they do provide a series of color photos in the beginning of the book that covers the major destinations. All in all this is a recommended book for the traveler to use along with some other books or internet research. Hey, if nothing else it makes for good traveling reading if you can't make a certain pit stop along your journey you'll at last know about it and maybe go next time. With tourism such a big part of the Mexican economy there are lots of choices in every town or city and this book wil help you sort through the tourist maze. There are many suggestions for your travel dollar and undoubtedly this book will leave you well prepared for that  trip to Mexico.	2002-10-29
US	49709123	R18TTQO29LHH7Z	0316109339	10200412	The Ascent of Man	Books	5	70	74	N	N	Evolution of knowledge	One of my all time favorite books from college that is definitely a keeper and still relevent after all these years. If you read each chapter and view the corresponding video text it produce sa truly amazing insight into the development of mankinds knowledge. Similiar in style to &quot;Connections&quot; it is quite possibly more engrossing. The book is a fascinating journey , written in a style that illuminates the darkest and distant passages of time with lucidity and foresight. My personal favorite chapter(6) was The Starry Messenger which was  eventually  about(like knowledge Bronowski builds on the past) Galileo  and his relationship with the Catholic Church as a result of his theories.I love this book and the understanding it gave me to subjects I felt less than interested in. This book has the power to make even the most abstract and esoteric theories interesting. A beautiful book that  puts all the knowledge of the past into perspective in an entertaining manner that can lead a young mind into areas of interest they may never have persued. The book is also full of richly detailed photographs, full color prints and other visual aids that further explain the topic duscussed.I would recommened this book for any young student in high school  or  approaching college who is even remotely interested in the connections between science and the evolution of mankind.  A great gift idea for that budding scientist or historian on your list.	2002-10-25
US	49709123	RC9REW3DOJK2Z	0520219805	206586610	A Natural History of the Sonoran Desert (Arizona-Sonora Desert Museum)	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Armchair nature watching	This is the ideal book to take along on trips to the Sonora Desert. Whether it is the Cailfornian , including Baja, Arizonian(it actually covers five states) or Mexican portions of the vast and diverse Sonara Desert,  the details and complexities of this eco system are truly amazing. This book is an indespensible guide to all facets of this immense gift, including the many plants and animals that inhabit this harsh yet bountiful environment. It is a book to read before, as well as after the trips to the desert. Since it is so diverse and vast , covering some 100, 000 sq.mi., the amount of information given is quite a bit but done in such a mannner that one can easily navigate the text to the desired area of interest Inevitably one will stray into an area of new  found interest. The little known facts are a lay persons path to knowledge about what the heck they just saw or are about to see. The black and white illustrations for the plants and animals you will or did encounter are excellent and extremely helpful for identification. There is a section with color photographs as well to further illustrate the beauty of the Sonora Desert. With contributions by some thirty five different experts in their pespective field this book is the ultimate guide. Do not hesitate to buy this book if you are visting the Sonora Desert  as it will prove to be a valuble reference tool that can be used over and over. Since there is so much to learn about the Sonora Desert and it's inhabitants, this book can be read anytime, anywhere since it is nearly impossible to experience it all. Recommended for the tourist, naturalist or anyone interested in learning more about the 2000 species of plants, 550 species of verbrates  and thousands of unknown invertebrate species who make the Sonora Desert home. This is truly fascinating material that only nature can provide so don't hesitate to purchase this book.	2002-10-15
US	49709123	R8ZS6Z5IYFOBM	0142000957	323802732	Killing Pablo: The Hunt for the World's Greatest Outlaw	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Killing UBL next?	The first thing  you need to do is click on the picture of this book to see the grisly photo of a fat, belly exposed, bloody corpse of  Colombian cocaine kingpin Pablo Escobar and the hystericaly happy poses struck by his killers. If this sort of thing apeals to you than go for it. The editorial by Amazon summarizes the details of the book pretty much, besides there are 85 other reviews to choose from! The photo captures the essence of the book which is full of gross atrocities to the Colombian people imposed by Escobar  and government  sponsored hit squads  in a war for the hearts and minds of the people. Unthinkable acts, cruel acts of violence all perpetuated in a war fought to control the people by terror. Some of the details are so bad that they shouldn't be mentioned in a review. The implication by author Bowden that the US military super secret  Delta Force, DEA, or SEALs involvement in the actual  killing is the stuff of  big screen followups for the likes of Oliver Stone. Considering the odds and suprising success of the US getting it's man once in the crosshairs my only hope is that maybe the same success can be applied to Usama Bin Laden. Get this book for a true life thrill ride in the hunt for the notorious drug lord Pablo Escobar. Also recommended is Gabriel Garcia's Marquez's \\"News of a Kidnapping\\" which details a Colombian high profile case during Escobars reign of terror.	2002-10-09
US	49709123	R1SCU8NVL88FUS	3822896365	139365558	Kahlo (Basic Art)	Books	4	57	58	N	N	An introduction to Frida	The ambitious Taschen art series excels at giving an artists works in a nutshell, covering the biography of the artist as well as it's best known works. Following the succcesful formula that has brought you more than fifty artists,  from Boteticelli to Andy Warhol, this book on Frida Kahlo is a basic primer. This is the perfect book for someone to learn a little something about the Mexican artist and popular icon of the familiar soaring bird eyebrows . The short biography covers the major events of her tumultous life  and graphically displays her most well known works accompanied by some black and white photographs of her with husband Diego Rivera and other notables from her era. The organization and brevity of the book make for the basic cliff notes on Frida. Compiled and researched well the result is a tasteful book  for the basics. The perfect book for the casual observer to find out if more information is needed to be learned about this fantastic Mexican artist. It is satisfying but if more detailed insight is needed I would recommend two other books. One is the book the editor relies upon heavily by Hayden Herrera which is the defintive book about Frida Kahlo entitled &quot;Frida  A Biography of Frida Kahlo.&quot; The other I would recommend for further exploration is by Martha Zamorra entitled  Frida Kahlo: The Brush of Anguish.&quot; Zamorra's hard to find Spanish edition is superb and much better than the edited English version. Nonetheless, the Tashen version is a good quality book full of vibrant color on good paper  printed in Germany on stock that will last  many years. Recommended for the art student or anyone interested in this most tormented soul who left her mark in art for the world to enjoy.	2002-10-08
US	49709123	R3HOXQ150VINAH	0932653529	489833962	Cycling San Diego	Books	5	19	19	N	N	The cycling guidebook for SD	The origianl guide was written in 1986 and  this most recent edition is updated wih revised and added trips for all levels of cyclist. The included tours are reworked and include great little maps that covers both mileage and elevation. This is key so that one knows what one is getting into before one attempts a tour, nothing worse than to have a destination with a grade beyond one's abilities or training level ! I have three different bike tour books for San Diego county and find Shad's to be  compact and the easiest to understand. The suggetions and recomendations are priceless. The star rating is helpful  with one being flat like Lake Murray  to the more challenging Mt. Palomar climb being a four star ride. The rating system is not only based on grade but total mileage of the tour as well. Throughout the years I've used this book the most and break it out every now and then to get new motivation.You can even pack this one with you if so desired. With so many roads to ride in San Diego county it is convenient to have the book for reference . It is an inspirational colllection of rides from throughout the diverse landscape that will guarantee to get one out of the rut of doing the same rides. This is the guidebook that'll get you to places you've thought about riding, it's that extra push you've been looking for.Recommended for mountain and road cyclists of all ages and abilities as there is something for everyone in this handy little book.	2002-10-07
US	49709123	R2EF21SMVKWENW	0899972292	320718532	Afoot & Afield in San Diego County	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The only book you'll need	Author Jerry Shad has over the years  compiled in book form( he also write articles for various publications) the best throughly life experienced hikes for the outdoor enthuisiast. This is the only book you'll need to explore San Diego's trails, both popular and less traveled. His explanations and advice for options on the trails are invaluable and accurate. I have two copies of his book , a vintage edition(still good information) and the current publication, one in the vechicle and one for home reference. Take a look at the index in the sample pages and you'll see that all of the points on the county compass are covered. This is an essential tool for the hiker.  The organization of the book is simple , concise and specific covering all areas of the county. The photographs  and illustrations are helpful too. As stated by others this is the only book you'll need to explore San Diego on foot.  Buy this classic and you'll get years of pleasure from the advice before you hit the trail.	2002-10-06
US	49709123	R3IG0X7S1A2ADS	0060919647	685832490	In Evil Hour	Books	3	4	6	N	N	"God's mercy is another way of beating us up"	This short novel is a good but not great. I found it difficult to get into in spite of it's brevity. The book captures the imagination but on a limited scope as the plot is a little convoluted to say the least. I found myself along the way wondering where the story was going as GGM meandered along revealing bits and pieces of his vision of a small town caught up in the grips of the harsh political climate in Colombia. I didn't think any one character was dominant enough nor for that matter were any in particular shown to have much depth. Coming from the Latin American literary giant GGM I was a bit dissappointed. I suppose the characters were not as important as the overall sense of fear cast by an oppresive government which is  in search of  dissidents while the mice that are menacing the church scurry about at night as the people do likewise under a curfew.  The ominous tension created by GGM is the reality that many have to live under in Latini America and the author  shows the depth of that fear resides not only in big cities but in small towns as well. Persecution exists in every level of society  and GGM shows that even in a sleepy, pictureque little town near the river  the serenity of nature can be disrupted by evil. Recommended for those that like GGM and a glimpse at a precursor to \\"One Hundred Years of Solitude.\\"	2002-09-21
US	49709123	R1WPSHDF0OMSMO	0816516235	880224305	Our Lady of Guadalupe: The Origins and Sources of a Mexican National Symbol, 15311797	Books	5	35	40	N	N	The Woman of the Apocalypse	This is an incredible scholarly account on the origins of the Virgin de Guadalupe and as the tittle implies how she became a Mexican National Symbol. The author is an ordained Catholic priest with a doctorate which lends to his credibility and not just having an axe to grind to disprove the authenticity of the popularly held belief of the apparition. Although this book could fit easily into a college textbook requirement for a serious study of La Guadalupana or Mexican History, the book is a suprisingly easy read considering all the information presented. The information is a bit esoteric at times but if followed closely reveals a different picture on the credibility of the appearance of La Virgin de Guadalupe to Juan Diego in 1531 in Tepeyec. The actual apparition comes into question for the reader to make their own judgements. What the book reveals are conflicting stories, embellished accounts and contradictory information with timelines that question the authenticity of the original known date of the appearance. The book is extremely detailed as the author begins by setting the stage with a proper perspective of the time period and the Indio and Spanish society in New Spain. Poole asserts that the story of the Virgen Mary's appearance in the New World was not neccessarily created for the Indios, as is popularily thought, but rather for the the Spaniards to have their own Mary in New Spain. I was reluctant to read this book for quite awhile because I thought it might be too dense but rather I found the first hand accounts extremely interesting and easy to follow. Besides, I am a believer in La Virgin de Guadalupa and I did not want to shake my faith. Poole has created an exhaustive study of great importance that shows the problems with the account based on sermons, Bishops wills, the building of the chapel and writings from the time period especially those of the criollo priests Miguel Sanchez and Luis Laso de la Vega on the subject . What is shown is that for more than a hundred years little mention was made to the appearance whereas it should have been the major religious event in New Spain. Reverend Poole articulates his case incorporating all facets of the appearance including the Mexican Goddess Tonantizin ,Our Lady of Extremadura, Virgin of Remedios and shows that although distinct their are many common threads running through the imagery and stories surrounding the origins of La Guadalupana. The creation of a national symbol has it's origins not in 1531 but some one hundred plus years later in 1648 based upon his scholarly report. Criolloismo (Spaniards born in New Spain) an Indian and a \\"new\\" Mary were the catalyst for the emergence of the national symbol of Mexico. When all is said and done Reverend Poole asserts that there is no objective historical basis for the symbolism but that the image has been manipulated throughtout the years to meet the needs of the Mexican people. The book has an excellent chronology of events, extensive footnotes and and exhaustive bibliography. Although somewhat disheartening, faith is not measured by empirical eveidence so I continue to be a faithful believer in La Virgin de Guadalupe but only now more informed on it's true origins. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Juan Diego or who wants to more about how La Virgin de Guadalupe came to be such an important icon of Mexican faith.e than a hundred years little mention was made to the appearance whereas it should have been the major religious event in New Spain. Reverend Poole articulates his case incorporating all facets of the appearance including the Mexican Goddess Tonantizin ,Our Lady of Extremadura, Virgin of Remedios and shows that although distinct their are many common threads running through the imagery and stories surrounding the origins of La Guadalupana. The creation of a national symbol has it's origins not in 1531 but some one hundred plus years later in 1648 based upon his scholarly report. Criolloismo (Spaniards born in New Spain) an Indian and a \\"new\\" Mary were the catalyst for the emergence of the national symbol of Mexico. When all is said and done Reverend Poole asserts that there is no objective historical basis for the symbolism but that the image has been manipulated throughtout the years to meet the needs of the Mexican people. The book has an excellent chronology of events, extensive footnotes and and exhaustive bibliography. Although somewhat disheartening, faith is not measured by empirical eveidence so I continue to be a faithful believer in La Virgin de Guadalupe but only now more informed on it's true origins. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in Juan Diego or who wants to more about how La Virgin de Guadalupe came to be such an important icon of Mexican faith.	2002-09-17
US	49709123	R2DKNW0VIENTE5	1566913292	210939049	Moon Handbooks Pacific Mexico: Acapulco, Puerto Vallarta, Oaxaca, Guadalajara, and Mazatlan (Moon Pacific Mexico)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	Essential for a Mexican road trip	I used this book extensively this past summer for an epic driving trip into Mexico that took me almost to Manzanillo. I found the book extremely useful for discovering those off the beaten path sidetrips. I also used Fodor's but found this book a notch above in terms of helpful recomendations.Since the bulk of the 3+ weeks was spent in Puerto Vallarta(actually Mismaloya) the book proved to be a good guide for excursions into the surrounding states of  Nayarit and Colima. For the most part the details given were accurate but with any travel book there are problems with current information as things are usually in flux in the tourist  trade. I suppose that is why they can come out with new editions every year. Some of the information when missing can be a letdown, for example one day we went out for an adventure in the hopes of seeing the turtle rescue attempts in a not so nearby bay only to find out it was not exactly natures  right  time.  There were other let downs such as the time we wet out to Mexicalitlan ,&quot; House of the Mexicans&quot;, where the ancient Aztecs/Mexica  supposedly set out  from Aztlan to establish Tenochitlan where the eagle would be found on top of a nopal devouring a snake. The description calls it a &quot;scenic little island town.&quot; If you consider peering into the open doors of the living rooms of the locals I guess it was scenic!  For my part I found it to be a waste of a drive. The museum was closed also which brings to a point one should consider whenever driving to a destination in Mexico. Do not arrive during the tradional siesta time or one will have to wait until 4 or 5 in the afternoon to enjoy the local musem etc! By contrast unexpected pleasant surprises can result by the books ommision of information as in  the opportunity to see the hatching of baby crocodiles at the end of the jungle cruise on La Tovara near San Blas. All in all the guide is very, very useful to plan out a trip  and see things and experience different parts of Mexican culture. The short histories, hotel recomendations, restaurant guides etc are pretty accurate and invaluable in planning a trip within a trip. There is diversity in recomendations for the earthy camper or the posh  five star  luxury hotel traveler. I would recommend this book for any traveler along the lovely Pacific Mexican trail.arts of Mexican culture. The short histories, hotel recomendations, restaurant guides etc are pretty accurate and invaluable in planning a trip within a trip. There is diversity in recomendations for the earthy camper or the posh  five star  luxury hotel traveler. I would recommend this book for any traveler along the lovely Pacific Mexican trail.	2002-09-12
US	49709123	R233ZCMCFH0TJ1	0140256369	628563700	Of Love And Other Demons (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	An unforgetable novelette	An absolutely incredible short book that takes you into a world of mystery, love,cruelty, superstition and  relationships in the colonial period of Latin America between the church and state. The editorial reviews give a good summary of the plot but there is so much more to a Gabriel Garcia Marquez novel.  The author has an uncanny ability to draw the reader in very close to the characters lives, participating in the unfolding story, empathizing with the trials and tribulations and being an active participant in the story that is unfolding. The story is void of any plot complexities which allows the reader to become emotionally  involved with the characters for a gut wrenching experience. The story reveals the relationships within a multuicultural colonial society, the mistrust of  African ancestry by the church and the resulting deeper bond that is created by the suppression of beliefs. The interaction by the characters is super. When Sierva Maria is confronted by the Abbess,  who represents the oppresive church in her cell,  the result is full of rich imagery as  the heroine takes on her captors while captive and literally all hell breaks loose. This plus her special bond with others as she sings makes the Abbess further believe that she has supernatural powers. They even ludicrously assert that she has wings. This story from the imagination of Marquez reveals the demented views of the Inquisition and the lengths it would go to to keep Christianity in the New World free from foreign traditions. Inspired by family legend and an editorial assignment to write about a burial crypt uncovered in an old convent, Marquez delivers a story not to t be forgotten. Less dense than some of his other works, this book is a good starting point or a place to reaquaint oneself with one of the best writers Latin America has produced. Recommended for anyone interested in Gabriel Garcia Marquez, Latin American literature or historical  novels. Most people will find that this little book delivers a story for the ages.k delivers a story for the ages.	2002-08-21
US	49709123	R30OYBNCQUKAY5	0970075014	195629655	Saints of the Southwest	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Not only saints	Featuring  twenty one saints, six &quot;Mary's&quot;, three angels and one manifestaion of the Christ child this book is a bit of misnomer. However the book is beautiful in it's presentation with short  one page explanations of the significance of each  holy representation.  I received this book as a gift and cherish it 's brevity yet immenesly  powerful imagery and accompanying stories on the origins of each person. The photographs are taken from various locations including such diverse places as  churches and roadside shrines. Their are several  wood carved bultos and retablos that are of particular interest to those interested in the folkloric arts of the southwest.  A fantastic little gem for those moments of reflection to be enjoyed over and over. The antiqutiy of some of the art pieces is amazing and deserves more than a second look. If you want you could whip through this in less than hour but really it should be read and enjoyed numerous times. If you know someone who likes the religious arts of the southwest this is a good choice to give as a gift. I found the section on Blessed Kateri Tekakwitha particularly interesting,  the first native American on her way to to becoming a saint in the Catholic Church. I would recommend giving this book to someone or treating yourself if you love the arts of the southwest.	2002-08-07
US	49709123	R1WF1LJS34U4PC	0140148590	248472059	The General in His Labyrinth	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The end days	Master  novelist Gabriel Garcia Marquez comes through again with another winner with his portrayl of  a dying Simon Bolivar. The story is comprised of reflections  and anecdotal information on the liberators life, going back and forth in time ,shifting decades  with memories of times past and how Bolivar sees the end days  approaching. As he travels down the Magdalena River ( a sort of farewell tour) the ghosts of his past surface, including the many loves, his enemies, his allies, his fading dream of unification  and those who betrayed him. His memories assault his journey making death nearly a desired  relief for the sick and shadow of the great man of vision for Latin America. When reading a historical novel like this one the question arises  as to whether the information is factual or purely imagination.  I finished reading this book wanting to believe some of the memories of Simon Bolivar were true and accurate to his life. In the end Marquez clarifies this point saying he was not concerned about the accuracies of the final days since those with him left no written record of the final days. However, Marquez does go on to say that he did considerable research(2 years) revealing often contradictory information filled with inaccuaracies while he labored through voliminous documentation. He also consulted with various historians, from several different countries, who are experts on the life of Simon  Bolivar to further enrich the exactitude of the novel. Many changes were made from the original manuscript. That said, there are things to be learned from this novel that only the simplicity of historical novels can provide. For furthe exploration of the life of Simon Bolivar it is suggested to read Eugenio Gutierrez Celys \\"Bolivar Day by Day \\" or the work of Bolivar biographer Vinicio Romero Martinez. I would recommend this book to anyone interested in the writtings of  Nobel Prize-winning author Gabriel Garcia Marquez, the life of Simon Bolivar and his dream for Latin America.n America.	2002-08-07
US	49709123	R3G30IGDZ45Z08	0395924995	835003602	The Buried Mirror: Reflections on Spain and the New World	Books	5	16	17	N	N	Magnificent!	This book is absolutely spellbinding and captivating in it's presentation that is both an excellent narrative and artistic  with imagery to further enhance the experience. The editorial review  here at Amazon by Kirkus Reviews is a good synopsis to get a good idea about the books contents. Also there are many sample pages available for your perusal. From a  readers perspective this book is one to cherish after the reading experience is over. Carlos Fuentes presents the subject of  Spain and it's influence on the new world with clarity and  makes his points with the precision of a sugeon, clean and accurate. Beginning with the ancient imagery of the bull found in caves in Spain Fuentes begins his analysis showing how this imagery continues in the arts and culture in such diverse domains as the works of Goya and Picasso, advertisements for brandy and of course the Spanish spectacle of bullfighting.  He picks and chooses his historical path, weaving through the centuries concluding  with the the growth of Hispanic USA. The book is full oh historical facts, little known bits of information abound as Fuentes draws analogies that stimulate the mind, stimulating the reader to conclude further inferences. The book reminds me of Bronowski's \\"The Ascent of Man\\" only on a smaller scope, from a perspective  that makes connections between Spain and Latin America as oppossed to the whole of humanity. The \\"mother\\" countries influence is expounded upon as only Fuentes can, his use of language is powerful, insightful and revealing all the while showing his keen intelligence and sharp eye for details.  The accompanying artwork throughout the book is fantastic and helps the reader to further understand the subject. A  moving narrative is delivered by Fuentes and  I highly suggest this book to anyone interested in  the history of Spain and it's long lasting influence in the Americas. A natural outcome of reading this book  is to further explore one of the many  topics introduced. Included is a complete lineage of Spanish succession detailing the various ruling families and marriages that created the kings and queens of Spain. Aslo there is an outstanding suggested bibliography.  This is a superb book  that stimulates the mind while you read and beyond.ded is a complete lineage of Spanish succession detailing the various ruling families and marriages that created the kings and queens of Spain. Aslo there is an outstanding suggested bibliography.  This is a superb book  that stimulates the mind while you read and beyond.	2002-08-05
US	49709123	R20GLO2JB8UOWQ	1842121502	52510368	Maximilian & Juarez (Phoenix Press)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	More than Max and Benny	Ridley does a more than credible job of portraying the conflict surrounding the attempt to install  a foreign emperor in Mexico. Much emphasis is placed on the internal power struggle between conservatives and liberals and the ultimate succes of the Mexican hero Benito Juarez. Many of the leaders of the times are introduced but seldom with any great depth. The title is Maximillian &amp;Juarez and this is not a biography I suppose. Napolean III  is obviously given more treatment since it was his idea to install the ill fated Maximillian. The other leaders who are involved in the story are Mexican Generals Santa Ana, Leonardo Marquez, Porfirio Diaz, Miguel Miramon, Melchor Ocampo and other foreign major role players like Marshall Achille Bazine, William Steward.  United States major  role players brought tot life are Generals Grant amd Sheridan and of course President Lincoln. Their are also some pages dedicated to the plan(adopt) of Maximillian to install his successor Augustin Iturbide(grandson of  Emperor Iturbide) but this was not to be. Of particular interest is the international scheme  and involvement of various nations in this attempt to install Maximillian. Light is shed on the United States involvement although it was preoccupied with it's own internal problems since it was during the time of the Civil War. The difference between the South's attitude is also discussed. It was also interesting to see the interaction between the foreign French society in Mexcio and the ruling class of Mexico, many marriages were conveniently arranged to preserve the strength of families. I thoroughly enjoyed this glimpse into a part of Mexico's past and learned some interesting facts about the players and places involved. The importation of arms and the circumvent route was fascinating as was the involvement of the French Foreign Legion.  The importation of 500  captured black Sudanese by Egyptian forces I found quite alarming and cruel as they were taken unwillingly from their families not knowing their fate. The thought behind this was that they would be better suited for the heat  and could fight(for their lives) better than the French. Many of the cruelities  and manipulations of war are revealed in this book. I would recommend this book to anyone who is a history buff or has a particular interest in Mexico or France. Although the title features the main players the emphasis is not neccessarily just focued on them  and gives a much broader and realistic scope. A very readable and enjoyable portrait of a part of Mexico's history of foreign intervention that does not read like a history book but more like a novel, a bittersweet story of foreign intervention, war and triumph.r families not knowing their fate. The thought behind this was that they would be better suited for the heat  and could fight(for their lives) better than the French. Many of the cruelities  and manipulations of war are revealed in this book. I would recommend this book to anyone who is a history buff or has a particular interest in Mexico or France. Although the title features the main players the emphasis is not neccessarily just focued on them  and gives a much broader and realistic scope. A very readable and enjoyable portrait of a part of Mexico's history of foreign intervention that does not read like a history book but more like a novel, a bittersweet story of foreign intervention, war and triumph.	2002-08-01
US	49709123	REH9ETU5BCNYC	0810981955	10942361	Diary of Frida Kahlo (Abradale Books)	Books	4	151	155	N	N	If unique is what you seek	I was put off by this book  for  a few years before I got around to reading it because of the odd nature of Frida's drawings and  doodlings, inks spillls morfing into &quot;art&quot; and in general the seemingly difficult text to follow. All this changed upon a recent trip to Mexico, amongst the tranquil backdrop of Mismaloya and unforgetable sunsets in this tropical paradise I was able to whip through this book. The serenity of the place helped me get through Frida's chaos. After reading her own insights and feelings about  life I wanted more. Her bizarre life, filled with more theatre and characters than a Fellini film, more physical and mental agony than most humans can endure is one that deserves her own thoughts, although at times they are convoluted. Whether she was under the influence(many of her last years she was doped to mask the pain) or not is irrevelant because the text is spellbinding with illustrations that captivate the imagination, taking the reader along a surrealistic  journey as only Frida can. It is a grotesquely beautiful book, rich in imagery , both literally  as well as illustrated in the unique style of Frida Kahlo, reflective of the pain and suffering she lived, both self inflicted and her own fate. It is quite simply, Frida in her own words. The book is a handsome collection of thoughts and drawings by one of the greatest  Latin American artists of the twentieth century. The author takes the liberty of interpreting each page, giving her perspective concerning the thoughts of Frida in a very helpful manner. The first part of the book is the diary, in writting and print and as colorful and bold as Frida was, whereas the second part is the type written text of the Frida's hallucianatory ramblings and drawings. This proves to a beneficail companion to reading each page, first by Frida followed by the clearer typed &quot;translation&quot; in thesecond part of the book. Without the type written text some sections are nearly impossible to decipher. The various sketches are shown in their embyonic stages and would later become part of her major works are truly amazing.  If you are a lover of the works of Frida Kahlo this is a fine book to add to your collection of Kahlo memorabilia.  This book is a perfect companion to Hayden Herrera's definitive biography. Incidently, my desire for more of Frida in her own words (this one is in Spanish mostly)was quenched recently by finding a book entitled &quot;Escritura&quot; by Frida Kahlo that is  series of poems, letters and notes selected by Raquel Tibol. I highly suggest reading both if you are a Kahlophile.r. The various sketches are shown in their embyonic stages and would later become part of her major works are truly amazing.  If you are a lover of the works of Frida Kahlo this is a fine book to add to your collection of Kahlo memorabilia.  This book is a perfect companion to Hayden Herrera's definitive biography. Incidently, my desire for more of Frida in her own words (this one is in Spanish mostly)was quenched recently by finding a book entitled &quot;Escritura&quot; by Frida Kahlo that is  series of poems, letters and notes selected by Raquel Tibol. I highly suggest reading both if you are a Kahlophile.	2002-08-01
US	49709123	R3FI6VKUT1FMLI	0520224086	150611457	Dreaming with His Eyes Open: A Life of Diego Rivera (Discovery Series)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	The many loves of Rivera	With various books written on the life of Diego Rivera this one is a must have. Anytime a subject is studied, it this case the life of arguably the greatest Mexican muralist, it is worthwhile to have various perspectives before coming to one's own conclusion. In that regard this book is invaluable as the author doesn't give you a softball and is quick to point out the inconsistencies in other versions of the larger than life Diego Rivera's exploits, including his own autobiography. The book itself is a fascinating portrait into the life of the celebrated Mexican muralist's life, beginning with the unusual circumstnances of his youth, his sojourn to Europe and studying art in France, his mingling in the bohemian lfestyle with various artists and intellectuals of his era, including his at times not so friendly rivalry with Spanish artist Pablo Picasso, his return to Mexico, his politics(communist) and the troubles he had since he usually mixed art and politics, his many, many love affairs, his multiple marriages including several to soul mate Frida Kahlo, his association with Trotsky(and his wife), his work in the United States and his later years in Mexico where he remained productive in spite of failing health. It is all here, both the believable and the unbelieveable, meshing together for a fascinating look at a man that could literally charm the pants off of the most beautiful women of the world. Included are two seperate groups of  pictures that include rarely seen vintage photographs and color prints of his most famous works. Every now and then I read a book that I want to savor and take my time. Like a special meal or an intimate moment, this book was one that I wanted to savor once I began. I wanted to make it last because it was so enjoyable, knowing that the inevitable consequence of my reading would make it end I almost regretted finishing the book. I took days to read the final chapters in the hope that somehow the experience would not end. I would highly recommend this book to those that are interested in Diego  Rivera, Frida Kahlo, and Mexican  art or history. It is a book that paints more than a picture, it is more like a grand mural  that captures the  fantastic life of Diego Rivera. This is a highly enjoyable book and an indispensable aid in understanding the complex makeup of  one of the true giants  of art in the twentieth century.recommend this book to those that are interested in Diego  Rivera, Frida Kahlo, and Mexican  art or history. It is a book that paints more than a picture, it is more like a grand mural  that captures the  fantastic life of Diego Rivera. This is a highly enjoyable book and an indispensable aid in understanding the complex makeup of  one of the true giants  of art in the twentieth century.	2002-06-06
US	49709123	R1SVSCGH9ZLAA6	0312095007	207035081	The Jazz Musician	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Jazz insights	Say the word jazz and many immediately shy away, jazz is \\"that other music. \\"  Nothing could be further from the truth as jazz is  a vital art form that continues to evolve and is Americas's music. In this fantastic little book some of the greatest musicians that have created or advanced this musical art form to it's current level are either discussed or interviewed. The heavyweights interviewed are  the fine and diverse in style saxophonists Sonny Rollins, Wayne Shorter  and Ornette Coleman. Included are an interesting and funny interview with Wyton Marsalis and Herbie Hancock that reveals the differences that muscial interpretations of the purist and the fusion player can be on the same page in many regards. Also a nice chat with trumpeter extraordinaire Dizzy Gillespie with his marvelous puffed out cheeks and several other notable greats. Also there are personality based discussions on John Coltrane, where the giants of jazz give their recollections and impressions of Coltrane and others. The others who are treated in this book with discussion are the late great Miles Davis , Chet Baker, Charlie haden, Lester Bowie  and Tony Williams. Of particular interest is an essay by musican /artist Joni Mitchel as she wrties about one of the greatest bass players whose flame burned out much too quickly, Jaco . Besides these musicians it is  unlikely and inevitable to not have a discussion of jazz without mentioning the forefathers including  Armstrong and \\"Bird.\\" The interviews are excellent insights into the minds of those that create the music, the reasons, the feelings, the inspiration. Taken from the magazine \\"The Jazz Musician\\" this short book is long on information about the lives of the greats of jazz. This book is especially handy since it can be read without going in order of presentation, but at will as one chooses. Recommended for jazz buffs of all ages.	2002-05-30
US	49709123	R1DN0VBZHP1BYK	0312095007	207035081	The Jazz Musician	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Jazz insights	Say the word jazz and many immediately shy away, jazz is \\"that other music. \\"  Nothing could be further from the truth as jazz is  a vital art form that continues to evolve and is Americas's music. In this fantastic little book some of the greatest musicians that have created or advanced this musical art form to it's current level are either discussed or interviewed. The heavyweights interviewed are  the fine and diverse in style saxophonists Sonny Rollins, Wayne Shorter  and Ornette Coleman. Included are an interesting and funny interview with Wyton Marsalis and Herbie Hancock that reveals the differences that muscial interpretations of the purist and the fusion player can be on the same page in many regards. Also a nice chat with trumpeter extraordinaire Dizzy Gillespie with his marvelous puffed out cheeks and several other notable greats. Also there are personality based discussions on John Coltrane, where the giants of jazz give their recollections and impressions of Coltrane and others. The others who are treated in this book with discussion are the late great Miles Davis , Chet Baker, Charlie haden, Lester Bowie  and Tony Williams. Of particular interest is an essay by musican /artist Joni Mitchel as she wrties about one of the greatest bass players whose flame burned out much too quickly, Jaco . Besides these musicians it is  unlikely and inevitable to not have a discussion of jazz without mentioning the forefathers including  Armstrong and \\"Bird.\\" The interviews are excellent insights into the minds of those that create the music, the reasons, the feelings, the inspiration. Taken from the magazine \\"The Jazz Musician\\" this short book is long on information about the lives of the greats of jazz. This book is especially handy since it can be read without going in order of presentation, but at will as one chooses. Recommended for jazz buffs of all ages.	2002-05-30
US	49709123	R2485WKR3H3B4K	1579590349	540392435	House Sensation: Spirited and Stylish Home Decorating	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Very cool	Even if some of the wild ideas are not exactly fitting to your intentions for your own abode the ideas are a super springboard for one's own imagination. The book is full of color photographs that illustrate in rich detail the conceptual novel ideas to making a home a home. The ideas are fresh, often whimsical, intriguing but always interesting. A reviewer said that it is best fot those twenty somethings and I would tend to agree except there are exceptions. I've seen this type of wild decor at  no longer \\"baby\\" boomers homes where style is not limited by demographics but flamed by creativity. This book is not unlike something one might find at a leading home furnishing super store catering to younger families starting out. Think color and quirky, brash and intelligent practicality. As evidence in this book when it comes to creating a home atmosphere anything goes. It seems the only  limitation is one's own imagination, this book will increase your imagination and refocus on the endless possibilities for that remodel, new home or just planning your own Pee Wee's playhouse. A great little book to look at over and over before you  add some zest to your living space.	2002-05-30
US	49709123	R6TQQZKDDAKJL	0804464294	488151037	El Indio: An Extraordinary Novel of Mexican Life and People Who Are Descendants of the Aztecs	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Tribal secrets	A great little book  that captures the simplicity of a  culture caught up in the upheavals of modern civilization and it's encroaching  values. Although the Indios described are from Mexico the theme of indigenous people and the clash between civilzations is universal and continues to this day. The suggested time frame is pre-conquest to the present(1937) and the language is one that reflects a simpler place in time. Not one character is named in this outstanding novel but the identification still exists  with all those unnamed individuals. Along with Mariano Azuela's &quot;Los de Abajo&quot; (&quot;The Underdogs&quot;), this short novel is considered one of the best in Mexican literature. Without lavish  and extravagant language the images are portrayed  magnificently, quite possibly the simplicity of language is used to drive home the point.  One of the most interesting aspects of this book is the inclusion of  Nahuatl to describe certain cultural  activities or aspects of the civilization. This works quite well with the inclusion of footnotes and adds a dimension of realism and authenticity to the novel that would probably be lost if they were not included. In this regard the book both educates and entertains.  Of particular interest is the introduction of the closest thing to a character when the author describes The Nahual, or the supernatural being who can transform  himself to any animal at will. Anyone interested in Mexican history, indigenous culture or the perspective of the Indio lifestyle and the inherent conflict created by European values would enjoy this book. As mentioned by another reviewer, an addional bonus are the numerous Diego Rivera illustrations throughout the book. The drawings have  a cartoon coloring book style from early on in the master Mexican muralists career. I would also recommend this book for  educators from the middle school level on especially if they are teaching something relating to Mexican life. This is a  very entertaining book that can be read quite quickly.ook that can be read quite quickly.	2002-05-21
US	49709123	R1D6ICNS914BZN	0374522839	599734264	The Death of Artemio Cruz: A Novel	Books	4	13	14	N	N	The long winding road	In what is agruably one of Carlos Fuentes's best books(not my particular fave) he creates a story that is put together in such a fashion that it demands the readers  full attention . At times it is difficult to follow the time period jumping by the narrator, Artemio , as he reflects on his long life and the twists and turns the events of his times have had on his own life. The narration allows Fuentes to give his jaded view of a corrupt Mexico and the power that it yields individuals. The author is never one to sugar coat his own personal views on Mexico, its  culture, traditions and ultimately history. Fuentes focuses in and out of different time periods, at times in rapid freeze frames, like a camera run amok capturing the highlights of a journey, Artemio Cruz is forced to examine his own mortality and the terms of his own integrity. The book is a brillinat piece of literature that deserves more than one read. Like the character in the book , whose life has changed through the years, I decided to read this again  and see if it was as powerful as the first time I read it some twenty years ago. For me the book is even better now, the translation is excellent  and the book resonates with brilliant imagery and  the importance of time and it's overall effect. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested in the literature of Mexico and would be an excellent choice for secondary educators teaching a course at the advanced literature level. This is a book that can be examined closely  for it's allegorical  substance as well as literally for it's historical commentary.	2002-05-20
US	49709123	R317QQAPS4G1G3	0306809869	494070211	Kind Of Blue: The Making Of The Miles Davis Masterpiece	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Project 43079	The title of this review is the number assigned to the then untitled \\"Kind of Blue\\" sessions.\\" Looking at this book from a historical pesrspective it is both informative and entertaining. The freelance music journalist Ashley Kahn , manages to tell an engrossing tale structured around but not limited to the recording session of the Miles Davis recording. The author takes you back in time to the memorable sessions that produced \\"Kind of Blue.\\" The tid bits of information are interesting insights into what went on in the six hours in the  studio  on March 2, 1959. The album was recorded in two sessions, the second being on April 22 of the same year. The fact that the music was recorded, essentially in one take, is amazing considering the end product. I particularly enjoyed learning about the background to the song titles, specifically \\"Freddie the Freeloader,\\" the relationship between Gil Evans and Miles Davis(this would be their last recording together), the perceptions of one of my music idols, John Coltrane  and in general, the historical jazz ambience. The author takes excursions into what was going in jazz at the time, who was doing what and how this recording set the stage for future developments. While doing this the author examines the jazz musician of the 50's, what came before and the impact of \\"Kind of Blue\\" with it's modal introduction for the masses. The book is a great companion to the music, it is almost like being there. If you'd like to know  the story behind the famed Miles Davis sextet that recorded one for the ages this is the book for you.<br />An additional bonus are the superb black and white photographs of the sessions that feature the men in their element. Many of the photographs(the first session was not photographed) are classic spontaneous glimpses into jazz history. If you like Miles, jazz or music history this book is for you, it reveals a part of Americana from a bygone era and luckily the music lives on, along with this written testament..	2002-05-15
US	49709123	R1ZIAEGZSHVIOK	0802133908	163605681	Pedro Paramo	Books	4	12	12	N	N	Hallucinatory imagery	I've yet to read a book quite like this one. This book is written in simple language but creates a complex imagery that is surreal and haunting, revealing a story for the ages. It is one of those books that takes the reader on a journey that is nonexistent, into a world that is part real, part myth. The interweaving of ghost like characters into Pedro Paramo's search for his  family history unviels things from the past  that are possibly left buried with the dead. A truly bizzare piece of fiction that is  like a fine herringbone weave, the threads all intertwined , that upon closer examination reveal an orderly pattern  in a new  creation, covering the subject  beautifully in classic detail. Juan Rulfo was a master of  uncanny prose, he creatied poetic imagery that is alive amidst the ghosts  of Pedros Paramo's past.  This book is difficult to understand without complete attention given , I  also think this book deserves more than one read. Having recently read the original Spanish version it will be interesting to compare the translation on my next reading of this book. The conversations in this book stir up genetic memories that are haunting peeks into the past. Considered a classic, this book is a beautiful yet eerie glimpse into one mans search for his identiy.	2002-04-15
US	49709123	R2XC0JHCGWZL7K	0875967027	353613416	Great Garden Shortcuts: 100S of All-New Tips & Techniques That Guarantee You'll Save Time, Save Money, Save Work	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Animal pests to Wildflowers	This book is  a handy companion come spring time and it is prep time for your yard. There are many useful ideas, some not exactly practical , like a &quot;handy&quot; cart that looks like one of those golf carts(but made of wood)to haul your gardening tools and supplies around the yard, but there are enough to make this book worth your time. Myself I just use a 5 gallon bucket to haul around my most used tools. Good ideas often spawn new insights leading to one's own ideas which can be better or more suited for one's needs, thus is the case with this book. The book has illustrations to compliment the ideas which are often tips offered from real gardeners. My feeling is if one can pull a few time saving ideas from a season of chores it is time well spent resting in the shade between jobs browsing this book. Browsing is the right word because it is a book that can be read in sections according to needs. There are suggestions for low maintenance plants that are proven to minimize time spent caring for, including annuals that replant themselves, and perrenials that  just keep on giving and suggestions for problem areas. This book is a reference source that  will give you a quick fix for problems that come with maintaining a yard. One of the beauties of this book is the use of seemingly unrelated materials for the yard, like 2-liter bottles with holes burried in the vegetable garden for concise watering near each plants to keep weeds down. I have read many Rondale Press garden books and this one rates right up with the best of them. Recommended for practical gardeners who like &quot;new&quot; ideas that work.	2002-03-27
US	49709123	R27S23V4Z4XZ0Q	0292710984	859464111	Cenote of Sacrifice: Maya Treasures from the Sacred Well at Chichen Itza	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Sacred Maya world	An amazing collection of archeological artifacts await the reader who is able to locate this gem of a book. Originally published to accompany a traveling exhibit that boasted the largest collection  of Maya ritual life ever assembled., the book reflects the mysteries of the Maya.The artifacts collected and displayed from over 3,000 collected are those that were found deep within the waters of the sacred well or cenote located near the city of Chichen Itza(\\"mouth of the well of the Itza\\"). This cenote, deep in the jungle of the Yucatan, is like a mini lake, with sheer vertical walls where the Mayans once stood to offer goods or human life to their gods.  Having visited the cenote on a trip to the Yucatan once, it made for one of those memorable occasions that last a life time, a step back in time to a world  steeped deep in ancient religion prior to the arrival of the Europeans. The cenote was a sacrificial center where the Mayans paid their spiritual debts and honored their gods with gifts made of gold, jade, copper, pottery, wood, textiles, copal and other materials including the ultimate human offering. The objects collected in this book number over 300 and are detailed in full color and black and white.  The magnificent pieces are primarily from the Late Classicperiod(A. D. 690-725) through and including the Postclassic period(A.D. 900-1539). The text that accompanies this beautiful book is highly informative but not in an overly scholarly way. The descriptions of the figures sheds light on the subject for the arm chair archeologist in easly understood language without esoteric jargon. Included is a history on the collector, Edward H. Thompson, beginning with his lowering of  a bucket in 1904, the burning of his \\"museum\\" after the Mexican Revolution and the settlement of the Mexican Supreme Court in favor of Thompson's heirs after his death  which allowed the Harvard Peabody Museum to publish this book. Besides the absolute stunning beauty of the creations offered and sheer abundance of objects, the salvaged  intact pieces are amazing to have survived so many hundreds of years in the depths of the cenote. At it's height the site rivaled a pilgrimage destination similar to Jerusalem or Rome.  This is one of those books that can be viewed over and over again for inspiration or reflection  on the arts and rituals of the Maya.  Highly recomended for archeology , art or history buffs that want a glimse into a seldom seen collection of pieces that  were unexhibited in the Peabodty Museum for over seventy years after being brought up from the silt in the cenote in the early 1900's. These are truly treasures that should not be missed if one is interested in the Maya and  the Sacred Well.ed and sheer abundance of objects, the salvaged  intact pieces are amazing to have survived so many hundreds of years in the depths of the cenote. At it's height the site rivaled a pilgrimage destination similar to Jerusalem or Rome.  This is one of those books that can be viewed over and over again for inspiration or reflection  on the arts and rituals of the Maya.  Highly recomended for archeology , art or history buffs that want a glimse into a seldom seen collection of pieces that  were unexhibited in the Peabodty Museum for over seventy years after being brought up from the silt in the cenote in the early 1900's. These are truly treasures that should not be missed if one is interested in the Maya and  the Sacred Well.	2002-03-25
US	49709123	RM2IW3Z9EWF5I	0415182379	548018397	Dangerous Border Crossers	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Unmasking "us and them"	Performance artist Guillermo  Gomez -Pena is an incredible talent who in this, his fifth book, has put together his thoughts and recollections on his art through the nineties. I was intrigued with him after seeing some of his performances on video and wanted to know more about this modern day shamanistic being. The book does not dissapoint , reads fast and is full of the emotions evoked from his performances. His writing style is puntuated with sharp insights into the human psyche. There is poetry, interviews and some experiences that will make you laugh.  GGP often wrties in Spanglish, creating colorful language, deep rooted in  the barrios from points north and south of the border, easily shifting gears and writng as though he  were Harvard educated.  GGP shares his views on everything from Zapatismo to skinheads, Roc en Espanol to La Virgen de Guadalupe, cyber  communities to barios and everything in between from an insightful Chicano perspective. Although it is not necessary to read the book chapter by chapter, if one does you'll find yourself flying through the experiences and recollections of GGP  and partner Roberto Sifuentes and other collaborators. The characters that GGP creates for his art are memorable and often take offs on pop icon culture. In this book you'll meet such notable creations as \\"Border Brujo,\\" \\"El Naftaaztec,\\" \\"El Mexterminator,\\" \\"Cyber-Vato\\" and \\"El Mad Mex\\"(from the film \\"Natural Born Matones\\"), traverse the globe from Helsinki to Vladivostok, Montana to Buenos Aires, Chiapas to Ciudad  Juarez,  Wales to Tijuana or from Fort Collings to back \\"home\\" in San Francisco or Mexico City. Experience the selections from audience confessions as they confront the beings created by GGP, the reactions and fears are amazing truths that only performance art can create. See GGP and partner Roberto Sifuentes amost die from hanging on crosses as they portray themselves as the good and bad thief from  the crucification. They  stayed on the cross until they were finally brought  down  when someone realized they could die from their performance. Vicariously experience the shock that  they both create  and recieve from their performances. GGP lives an existence that is bicultural and international in scope , a Mexican who is a Chicano in the US, he understands the nowhere land he stands firmly on, neither Mexican nor American through some people eyes, he confronts peoples fears making them examine their own prejudices. This is a brilliiat book that captures the essence of GGP and his performance troupe La Pocha Nosta. The book is printed on quality paper, full of magnifent black and white photographs and some very nice precolumbian illustrations. The photographs visually delight  as they show the characters created , complete with props that result in stunning dramatic appeal.  This book is a cultural tour de force that transcends borders, extending the readers imagination to challenge common perceptions  and reevaluate the world of the Chicano as we know it. Highly recommended for those interested in one of the best  performance artists of our times.were finally brought  down  when someone realized they could die from their performance. Vicariously experience the shock that  they both create  and recieve from their performances. GGP lives an existence that is bicultural and international in scope , a Mexican who is a Chicano in the US, he understands the nowhere land he stands firmly on, neither Mexican nor American through some people eyes, he confronts peoples fears making them examine their own prejudices. This is a brilliiat book that captures the essence of GGP and his performance troupe La Pocha Nosta. The book is printed on quality paper, full of magnifent black and white photographs and some very nice precolumbian illustrations. The photographs visually delight  as they show the characters created , complete with props that result in stunning dramatic appeal.  This book is a cultural tour de force that transcends borders, extending the readers imagination to challenge common perceptions  and reevaluate the world of the Chicano as we know it. Highly recommended for those interested in one of the best  performance artists of our times.	2002-03-18
US	49709123	R3K7FATERSKQLD	1585672998	37580908	The BBC Reports: On America, Its Allies and Enemies, and the Counterattack on Terrorism	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Moving reports	The BBC Reports is a stunning collection of essays written by some of the foremost journalists  in the world who have traversed the globe from hot spot to hot spot.  The book is insightful, written with the clarity that years of accumulative experience can yield. There are fifteen different authors sharing their opinions on diverse topics related to 9/11. Everything from the actual event to the aftermath and all the repercussions are discussed. The topics included deal with the world economy, the limelight cast on various politicians from around the world and of course the effect on the USA and it's relationships with the rest of the planet. Since each chapter is an individual essay it is easy to go through this book quickly.  One of the many interesting chapters is the final chapter written by Alan Little(a correspondent who reported on the collapse of Communist rule in Eastern Europe)  who shares his views on the New World Order that may result from the seismographic events of 9/11.The perspectives are as varied as the topics covered. It is hard to pick a particular writer or  expert but suffice to say that each contributes based on their expertise, analyzing  the events  based upon their years of experience in the field as reporters who have witnessed the major events of our times firsthand. I would recommend this book to anyone who is interested  in one of  the major events of this generation and what it quite possibly means for the future.	2002-02-20
US	49709123	R2KK1665SZRFDL	158567074X	384058796	Frida	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Foul mouthed princess & the frog	Being gullible for the written word, especially concerning one of the most intriguing artists of the 20th century, I immediately gobbled this book up. First of all let's say this is not for everyone but if you like Frida you'll disregard the shortcomings. It is a good novel written in a narrative style, as Frida's sister is talking to a psychologist. The language may offend some people as the author puntuates the spicy tale of Frida's colorful life with laguage that would make a sailor blush. I'm not sure it was neccessary but I guess it gives some authenticity to this novel as it is suppossed to capture the essence of Frida. I guess Christina(her sister) was a gutter mouth too, well, remember, this is a novel. The lines are blurred and the reader gets caught up believing it to be true not a fictionalized account. The author does a good job making it seem true so one has to to remind oneself after a reading session that it is just a novel, but it does make one wonder. The book moves rapidly through her life, beginning with childhood memories, the tragic bus accident, her life in the university mixing it up with other soon to be famous Mexican artists, politicians etc, her on and off again romance with Diego (if you don't now the last name shame on you), her affairs and flirtations with both men and women and her self- destructive and painful life that came to a quick end. You'll meet other luminaries in the Frida galaxy such as Paulette Goddard, Dolores del Rio, Maria Felix, Trotsky and the Rockefellers. This book is a masterful invention of the life of Frida that captures the imagination and transports the reader to scenarios that might have been. The authors note at the end is a disclaimer about the incidents but suggests they are created in the context of historical accuracy as she used primary and secondary documents to achieve this brilliant yet fictionalized account of Frida Kahlo. She also contributes a list of reference materials that includes what may be the difinitve Kahlo biography by Heyden Herrera, which if you haven't read is outstanding. I would recommend Barbara Mujica's book to anyone who likes Frida or for that matter Diego. An easy and fun read that brings Frida to life as she moves through life in Tehuana outfits, her face a somber reflection of pain, with her eyebrows that look like the wings of a soaring bird, she flew through and exited this life much too quickly but has left a legacy that lives on in art.e difinitve Kahlo biography by Heyden Herrera, which if you haven't read is outstanding. I would recommend Barbara Mujica's book to anyone who likes Frida or for that matter Diego. An easy and fun read that brings Frida to life as she moves through life in Tehuana outfits, her face a somber reflection of pain, with her eyebrows that look like the wings of a soaring bird, she flew through and exited this life much too quickly but has left a legacy that lives on in art.	2002-02-16
US	49709123	R26BE1G8L0E67O	006009771X	207208768	The War Against America: Saddam Hussein and the World Trade Center Attacks: A Study of Revenge	Books	4	27	38	N	N	Loose network with a common thread?	Having read the diverse reviews of this book I'm further convinced that every one has an opinion, just like a certain part of the human anatomy. After reading this very interesting book I came away further convinced of the current danger, future threat and just how far Hussein may go to avenge his defeat in the Gulf War. Before the horrifying events of 9/11 this book was released under the titile \\"Study of Revenge.\\" That is exactly the point Laurie Mylroie goes to extensive research to try and prove. The fact is she can't exactly pin Hussein down but she presents a credible case. Considering the CIA, Feds  and Government have the same suspicions but haven't been able to prove it either, Mylroie ties some loose ends together for the reader to be the judge. One of the interesting parts of the book is how the various agencies seem to be their own worst enemy, each withholding information from one another instead of sharing for the common good. The information presented concerning the first WTC bombing is a fascinating study about an International conspiracy that quite possibly needed the intelligence of state sponsorship since some of these characters are little more than petty criminals prior to the bombing. Her point is that Hussein is able to discreetly sponsor without direct state involvement, thus placing any fingerprints on the dupes who carried out the actions. The information is presented complete with court documents, photographs and text from the trial of those responsible for the WTC bombing in 1993. The book is easy enough to follow, with a 2 year chronology of related events and a list of characters involved, including a mystery man who arrives to supervise the final stages of the bombing. Could this have been a member of Iraqi intelligence? Who really knows, what is clear is that Hussein feels there is unfinshed business to avenge the Gulf War. The author does have an agenda, presents her case, and maybe if someone in the governmnet had listened to her the WTC might be standing today. The warning signs appeared to have been everywhere. Mylroie sets the stage and takes the reader through a series of events that eventually lead up to the 1993 WTC bombing, all the while pointing in the direction of a greater evil.  Even if you don't agree with her case, and the behind the scenes culprit being Hussein, the information provided concerning the 1993 conspiracy is concise, accurate and allows the reader to come to their own conclusion. Highly recommended for anyone interested in current events, terrorism or Saddam Hussein.e WTC might be standing today. The warning signs appeared to have been everywhere. Mylroie sets the stage and takes the reader through a series of events that eventually lead up to the 1993 WTC bombing, all the while pointing in the direction of a greater evil.  Even if you don't agree with her case, and the behind the scenes culprit being Hussein, the information provided concerning the 1993 conspiracy is concise, accurate and allows the reader to come to their own conclusion. Highly recommended for anyone interested in current events, terrorism or Saddam Hussein.	2002-02-05
US	49709123	R1UFX1ZCIHZ64Z	0374525617	249764029	The Yellow Wind	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Faces of the conflict	David Grossman manages to do the seemingly impossible as he humanizes the conflict between the Jews and Arabs in Israel. An outstanding picture is drawn that shows the humanity of the conflict, both the ugly and beauty involved without any bias. A brief historical perspective is included to help further illustrate the ongoing problem. Grossman interviews and paraphrases his discussions along the way of his journey, seeking the truth without politicians interference from either side. The stories are for the most part heartbreaking, as Grossman explores and tells his revealed stories of the never ending conflict. Although written &quot;early&quot; on in the conflict, the issues and people are the same. Palestinians dispossesed, turned to bitter anger, further escalated by a Jewish authority that tries to mantain some order between the now, old adversaries. The book is insightful and unfortunatly prophetic of the current situation that now calls for a murder by one side in retaliation for another murder. The cycle is unending, the faces on the news all to real and Grossman revealed the faces long ago. He traveled throughout the country to gather the stories of those most affected by war. He talks to old and young alike as they complain and show their disdain, their fears and their little hope for a workable solution. The books raises many questions, often going deeper than the conflict itself, obviously there are no easy solutions.The cruely inflicted upon each group is part of the problem but the roots of the conflict date back to the partioning of the land and the changing landscape of the geography and it's inhabitants. This book is a very worthwhile read that is a fast page turner. Highly recommended for those interested in the conflict of the Middle East that seems to be the fuse of the powder keg.	2002-01-22
US	49709123	R7G6J3OPH6IK9	0517533448	490789786	The Illustrated Encyclopedia of Jazz	Books	4	8	8	N	N	Jazz from A-Z	Granted there may be newer books on the subject of jazz but this edition is a classic. I've had my copy since back in the day and it never is on the shelf, but always near my music collection for handy reference. Concise yet informative, the format makes for a quick study. Released before discs were available, the book features (275) classic album covers in both color and black and white. Glimses into the classic album covers is worth the price of admission alone. The discographies are complete up to the time of publication in the late 70's. There are many rare photographs as well featuring many of the giants of America's music. The book is a comprehensive who's who of jazz with over 400 artists covered. Short biographies covering mostly the musicians artistic career reflects the various stages the musician passed through in their development, which groups they played with etc. There are obscure artists featured as well as the more popular. The records listed for each artist include UK releases that may have been unavailable in the United States. This is especially helpful for the jazz album collector who is hunting the second hand used record bins. There are some quite rare releases that are still floating around in the thrift stores and swap meets. In essence there is a wealth of information that mixes nicely with the nostalgia of the days of old school jazz records. Recommended for jazz afficionados everywhere.	2002-01-18
US	49709123	R2HP1IMSF2YOIG	0374511713	180455749	Aura: A Novel (English and Spanish Edition)	Books	4	18	19	N	N	Controversial?	Having read this book on a weekend visit to Mexico I found the book to be very different from what I am used to with Carlos Fuentes. It is a simple yet beautiful book that can be read in one sitting. The book was banned in Mexico and the controversy resurfaced this past year and for the likes of me I don't know why. Then again I don't get people wanting to burn Harry Potter books. I would think we would have learned something about banning books dating back to the time of Galileo's book on the revolution of the planets.  The bilingual edition is interesting and pretty accurate. It is insightful to read in both languages, both Spanish and English at once to get the full flavor; a comparison of the delicasies of language if you will. The other reviewers have explained the plot and role of the characters so I would only like to add a few points. This is one of Carlos Fuentes's earlier works and it reminds me of Edgar Allan Poe. It has the same feel as say, &quot;The Raven&quot; or &quot;The Pit and The Pendelum&quot;. In that context, this book belongs alongside the other classics of literature. A horror story that is mired in love and intrigue, Fuentes demonstrates his creative skills early on in his career, which only gets better with maturity as each forthcoming book uses denser and richer language. The beauty is in the simplicity of this book.  I would also recommend other Fuentes books as well, several of which I have reviewed such has &quot;The Crystal Frontier&quot; or &quot;Christopher Unborn.&quot;  Recommended for open minds above the age of reason.	2002-01-18
US	49709123	R31SZ5EETS8QQX	0743211359	679898926	Saddam's Bombmaker: The Daring Escape of the Man Who Built Iraq's Secret Weapon	Books	5	10	13	N	N	Scary stuff	This is a compelling story of one man's journey to hell and back. The book is extraordinary, frightening and unfortunatley, a realistic portrait of Saddam Hussein's Iraq. Although the story details the escape of Dr. Hamza, there is so much more to the story that goes beyond the account of one individuals freedom and liberation. The book gives a chilling account of the inhumane regime of one of the planets truly bad guys. The book reveals Saddam to be a very dangerous man that will go to any lenghts to achieve his desires. In this case it is a nuclear weapon, not to mention the much known about biological weapons of mass destruction. This creep uses his own people for guinea pigs. His dastardly regime eliminates opposition and uncooperative scientists at will. He not only murders anyone in his way but tortures them before killing them. If need be, to emphasize the point, Saddam does it himself. No one is safe, the families of anyone crossing Saddam are the first to &quot;disappear.&quot; Those that cooperate and are trusted are given a privileged life that includes state sponsored homes, high salaries and a new luxury Mercedes Benz to get around. There are perks for those that can live with the fear of suddenly being on Saddams wrong side. All of this makes the story even more amazing and truly fascinating. A true story that shows how one man lived through the hell and made a daring escape, risking his life as well as his families, with the help of the CIA to escape from Saddams Iraq. The story has the best elements of a good spy novel, only this is the real deal. It is a book that is hard to put down, full of intrigue but it also gives insight into daily life, in a secret Iraq, under Saddam Hussein. The book details the clandestine bomb program, dating back to the seventies, through it's peak in 1993-94 and culminating with Dr. Hamza's safe reunion with his family in 1996. Get this book for a portrait of evil inside Irag.	2002-01-17
US	49709123	R32LUIYO8ILORI	0806114290	605245403	Life and Adventures of Joaquin Murieta: Celebrated California Bandit (The Western Frontier Library Series)	Books	4	34	35	N	N	The myth revealed	This is where the myth of the notorious California bandit Joaquin Murrieta was born. There are probably as many versions of Joaquin Murrieta as there were of sightings of him in the the gold rush days of California lore. Originally published in 1854 the Cherokee Indian Yellow Bird, better known as John Rollin Ridge, created the story that has since grown to mythical proportions. In this edition, of particular note is the introduction by Joseph H Jackson, who clarifies some disputed points about the authenticity of the fabled bandido Joaquin Murrieta. From the humble beginnings of a novel grew the legend that has been perpetuated through various novels, poems, music and even the big screen. All that is missing is the True E  biography on the small screen. For those unfamiliar with the story, Joaquin Murrieta was a bandit who terrorized the early Californians, along with his notorious band of bandidos numbering some 2,000, which included such bad guys as &quot;three fingered Jack&quot; and more Joaquin's than those listed in a Mexico City phone book. This is a serious account that grew out of the imagination of one poet-journalist who authenticated his account by meeting in &quot;secret caves&quot; with Joaquin Murrieta to tell this tall tale. What is most fascinating is that this myth is deeply imbedded in the consciousness of Californians, particularly those of Mexican desent who identify with Murrieta as a sort of Robin Hood. Myself included, I was duped into believing the story of Joaquin Murrieta who was forced to turn into a bad guy after the gringos wronged his wife, sister, or whatever version you may happen to believe in. It made for a romantic vision of a bygone era, good guy wronged goes bad to avenge his woman, against incredible odds he managed to be  shadowy and elusive. The stories growing with each retelling by the the campfires, Joaquin Murrieta became larger than life. After reading this original novel it is clear that the story that has grown larger and bigger than life was  the stuff of pulp fiction. The book itself is an easy to read narrative. If you are interested in the fictionalized history of California, than this is a must read to understand how the myth of Joaquin Murrieta was created. Many books have been written on the life of Joaquin Murrieta but this is the original.and bigger than life was  the stuff of pulp fiction. The book itself is an easy to read narrative. If you are interested in the fictionalized history of California, than this is a must read to understand how the myth of Joaquin Murrieta was created. Many books have been written on the life of Joaquin Murrieta but this is the original.	2002-01-17
US	49709123	R5E6XGO0UITKC	0940202018	47354784	1: Russian Lacquer, Legends and Fairy Tales	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Artistry in miniature	Lucy Maxym has written two authoritative books on the subject of Russian fairy tales and the beautiful laquer art that depicts these folktales. This is one volume of a two volume set. Unfortunately there is no cover art available online to show the magnificent scene shown from Voron Voronovich or The Raven. When the book is opened up it shows the complete panel that is the actual size. There are over one hundred full color plates that are beyond description with their delicate intricacy and unsurpassed attention to minute detail. The precise tempura egg based brush strokes are unbelieveable. They are in a word, exquisite. I've enjoyed this book for years and have it handy for quick and easy inspiration. Many of the color illustrations are actual size which allows the viewer to appreciate the intricate finesse involved in the small works of art. Sometimes a magnifying glass helps to appreciate the fine detail. The subtlety and skill in producing these works of art is nothing short of amazing. The actual text is complete, concise and explains the nineteen Russian legends and fairy tales chosen. My own interest grew out of a collection of plates I have from some of these folktales where I wanted to know more about the story behind the magnificent laquered plates. I found this book to be helpful to understanding the tales and was even more pleased by the art work included. If you like Russian folktales or the miniature lacquer paintings this book will bring much joy throughout the years, year after year. Get both volumes for a double treat.	2001-12-18
US	49709123	R32CZ2C6TY89BB	1570362823	973340089	Andy Lakey: Art, Angels, and Miracles	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Angels amongst us	This book is full of Andy Lakey's spiritual three dimensional art, featuring mostly his angels. Besides the  full color prints, included are personal insights into his journey that led him to creating his art (he was a car salesman before) and various testimonials about the impact of his art. Skeptics might be turned off and discount him as just another new age spiritualist. However, the fact of the matter is, he has had a positive impact on many people and that is what this book and his art is about. His now famous 2000 angel series for the millenium was the impetus for his effect on countless people. The book is very easy to read and often repetitive, hence the minus one star, but the message is clear  and his art shines and brightens the hearts and souls of many people. The oversized print is a background to the dazzling visual imagery Lackey employs with his angels. Of particular interest are the various stories of other people who have been touched by his art, most notably the blind, including Ray Charles. His art is collected by many people, including such luminaries as former Presidents Carter and Ford, Ed Asner, Gloria Estefan and Pope John Paul II, amongst others. This is primarily an art book but the related included stories are an additional bonus. This would make a great gift book, especially but not limited to someone who likes art or needs uplifting guidance. The angels and three dimensional art that come in the book can be enjoyed many times over. The stories will astound you.	2001-12-05
US	49709123	RVXY559YRJ5X7	0882250086	382088302	El Escorial (Wonders of Man)	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Eighth Wonder of the World	Anyone interested in the rich history of 16th century Spain will love this book. The oversized book is as informative as it is engrossing with it's lavish photographs that one can only marvel at. The color photographs are the real treasure here and a glimpse into the opulence and extravagance of Catholic Spain. There are over over 100 photographs, over half in color often taking up the whole page. The book is part of a series Newsweek used to have in their book division entitled &quot;Wonders of Man.&quot; Besides the magnificent color photographs there are illuminated manuscripts, old sketches and engravings. Many of the featured items are by famous artists such as Goya, El Greco and Velasquez. Goya's cartoons or his orginal art on a smaller scale for his masterpieces were used to create the tapestries hanging in El Escorial. The visual parts of this book are to be enjoyed over and over again. The text itself is a fascinating read into the lives of the famous and infamous rulers of Spain during it's imperial zenith. Much of the book is dedicated to Phillip II who built El Escorial as a monument to the zeal of the Counter- Reformation. The king dedicated much of his forty-two year reign, and money gained from conquering the new world, into building this stone edifice, which was in honor of Saint Lawrence and a tribute to Catholic Spain. The book takes the reader through the troubles encountered and the many architects and artists involved in creating &quot;the eigth wonder of the world.&quot; Unfortunately the succesors to the crown of Phillip II were not as competent and had other interests and El Escorial went thrpough deterioation and eventually restoration. Within the church, underneath the altar, are the remains of eleven Spanish kings, including Phillip II himself. The polished marble coffins of their queens are viewable in a two page color photograph that is big enough so that the names of the queeens can be read. The story of the succession of the Bourbon crown over the Hapsburgs reads like a telenovela complete with stories of lies and deciet, murder and even rumors of necrophilia. It is a story of the Spanish crown when it was at it's zenith up to and including the reign of Juan Carlos in modern times and their relationships with El Escorial.At the end of the book there is a section dedicated to El Escorial in literature and the Spanish Succession lineage from 1469-1931. After reading this book I had a new found respect and admiration for the reign of Phillip II and the legacy he left the world, his monument in stone to Catholic Spain. I would recommend this book to history buffs or art enthusiasts, especially those interested in the Catholic Church or Spain at the heights of it's powers. It is definitely worth the relatively inexpensive price with it's treasure of visual delights.own over the Hapsburgs reads like a telenovela complete with stories of lies and deciet, murder and even rumors of necrophilia. It is a story of the Spanish crown when it was at it's zenith up to and including the reign of Juan Carlos in modern times and their relationships with El Escorial.At the end of the book there is a section dedicated to El Escorial in literature and the Spanish Succession lineage from 1469-1931. After reading this book I had a new found respect and admiration for the reign of Phillip II and the legacy he left the world, his monument in stone to Catholic Spain. I would recommend this book to history buffs or art enthusiasts, especially those interested in the Catholic Church or Spain at the heights of it's powers. It is definitely worth the relatively inexpensive price with it's treasure of visual delights.	2001-12-04
US	49709123	R36D0FT1ZPQRJY	0684832283	731701064	God Has Ninety-Nine Names: Reporting from a Militant Middle East	Books	5	16	25	N	N	An excellent overview	After reading this book I read most of the customer reviews and  the controversy baffles me. Ms. Miller has written an honest account based on her long expeiences in the Middle East as a journalist. She does not purport to be a historian but does a more than credible job giving historical background information. If you are looking for a scholarly text look elsewhere. If you are an average person, with interest in this remote and troubled part of the world the insights are terrific. She goes from country to country, explaining the countries relationship with it's own dissent  and it's impact on the Middle East and the rest of the world. Ms. Miller tells it has she saw it and considering the horrific events, and the aftermath of 9/11, quite on target. Bin Laden is mentioned only once, this is about ALL the radical movements hiding in various countries that have one common thread, they detest Israel and the United States and it's westernization or modernization of the Middle East. Whether it is the Muslim Brotherhood or some other clandestine terrorist organization, they are one and the same for the most part. I found that I couldn't put his book down as I listened to Judith Miller's narrative of the various radical Islamic countries movements. Is it a western view? Yes. Is it biased? No, she is reporting and sheding light on a topic from a non-militant point of view. All the critics aside, I would recommend anyone who wants to know more about and sort out the differences in the ten countries covered to seek out this book. Get this book for a good concise overview of the radical movements that are threatening their own region  and are trying to destabalize the world with terrorism and a call for jihad.	2001-12-03
US	49709123	R1N8EYADPLF5NT	0300089023	681039726	Taliban: Militant Islam, Oil and Fundamentalism in Central Asia	Books	5	2	3	N	N	In a nutshell	There lots of great reviews on this book, including John Millers authoritative analysis of this book, which pretty much sums it up and led me to this book. In an attempt to decipher the difference between a Pashtun , Hazarus or Tajik, a Mullah from a Mujaheddin, Kabul from Kandahar and all the surrounding &quot;stans&quot;, Tajikistan, Turkmenistan, Uzbekistan and the more familiar Pakistan, and of course Afghanistan, I bought this book. Naturally I also wanted to know more about the now notorious Taliban. I bought this book shortly after 9/11 and found it to be a most enjoyable read. Maybe enjoyable is the wrong word, fascinating might be better suited for a rich account of the rise to power of one of the most notorious governments the modern world has seen. These guys make Idi Amin look like Mr.Rogers. The account includes a briefly detailed history of the area of Afghanistan and it's relationship to the Middle East and how it serves as a crossroads to the surrounding world. Here you will learn about all the warlords who are now hedging for a piece of the power pie in post Taliban Afghanistan. It also explains the concept of the &quot;great game&quot; and how, the rarely mentioned in the media, war for pipelines is a big factor in the global politics. The media has now made the atrocities committed by the Taliban known to the world and it is all here in black and white, just as ghastly and inhumane, all written before the pusuit of the Al-Qaeda began. If you want to know more about the Taliban this is the book to read, don't hesitate, go ahead and get it. Now when my young teenage son, whose world is usually limited to online chats, telephone calls and girls, asks me, &quot;What is the difference between the Taliban and the Al-Qaeda?&quot; I can now give him a good answer as he runs off to the mall.	2001-11-29
US	49709123	R2HH8IL0X3XJ5	1558321071	722298691	Sublime Smoke: Bold New Flavors Inspired by the Old Art of Barbecue	Books	4	8	9	N	N	Outdoors cooking companion	This is the book I bought when I first bought a smoker several years ago and it has been very helpful. It serves the needs of the beginner or the more experienced outdoor cook. The recipes are pretty interesting and range from complex to quite simple, with an international flare. Although initially I bought the book to help me with smoking techniques and recipes I have found it extremely helpful as a &quot;normal&quot; cookbook. The sauces, pastes, dressings and marinade suggestions are easily transferred to traditional indoor cooking and I have done so as a result. The recipes also serve as a springboard for one's own creative ideas. Even if you don't have the time to follow the recipes it is fun to read them and imagine. Who knows it may even inspire you to smoke something outdoors! Recommended for all outdoor cooks who want to do something besides bbq on the grill.	2001-11-27
US	49709123	R1CNAHSR3KQ67D	0811818934	746573303	Mexicolor: The Spirit of Mexican Design	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Mexico lindo/Beautiful Mexico	Having travelled through most of the states of Mexico, witnessing the enchanting colorful culture firsthand I can say this book captures the essence and beauty of Mexico lindo. It reminds the viewer of the places and people of Mexico in all their colorful splendor. What traveler through Mexico can forget the mercado (outdoor maketplace)experiece with the aromas and color blending for an intoxicating mixture that stays with you for a lifetime? It is all captured here in this brilliantly colored book.  An inspirational book for the artist as well, the splashes of color jump from the pages into one's imagination for new ideas based on centuries old traditions. Although the fantastic color photographs are the highlight of this magnificnet book, the text is equally as good and highly informative. Little known tidbits abound. Take for example the centuies old technique of hanging cactus upside down to attract cochineal bugs. The bugs are then crushed to extract a wonderful red dye for wool rugs.  Nothing is wasted, the bugs are sun dried or toasted on a griddle and mixed with lime after being crushed to a powder. The 21 chapters cover all aspects of Mexican life and each deserves the utmost attention since the detail given to each is exquisite. Nearly half of the chapters are dedicated to some aspect of the home, whether the garden, renovated haciendas or charming homes away from home for the traveler, the peeks into the places of rest are magnificent. The section featuring four artists homes is fabulous. There is one particular chapter that I love most, it is simply entitled wood. Here one will find marvelous wood creations, including masks and furniture as well as the famous wood carvers from Oaxaca, who create whimsical, colorful animals that defy conventional conceptions. There are other places to find wood creations as they are featured throughout the book in one form or another. This book demands to viewed over and over. This is one not to be shelved but to be kept handy for reference or inspiration. I would highly recommened this book to anyone who loves the old world culture that is Mexico. It is one of my favorite books that I cherish, a special gift that I view often,  colorful memories rekindled and brought to life again and again.handy for reference or inspiration. I would highly recommened this book to anyone who loves the old world culture that is Mexico. It is one of my favorite books that I cherish, a special gift that I view often,  colorful memories rekindled and brought to life again and again.	2001-11-16
US	49709123	R1P8ZCL90TYU3N	0140238026	772498023	The Complete Book of Herbs: A Practical Guide to Growing and Using Herbs	Books	5	57	59	N	N	Terrific reference material	Growing one's herbs is satisfying but using them completes the cycle. If you've ever wondered what to do with all the herbs you've managed to put in your garden over the years this book can help you. If you are just starting out with herbs this book can get you going properly. Not only does it have recipes but it has some ideas that I never could have imagined let alone used. The bulk of the book is dedicated to the herbal index which is extremely helpful. Each illustrated herb is broken down and expalined simply as to it's use, from root to leaves. The only problem I found with this section is that it is organized by their botanical names, which unless you're so inclined is difficult to find quickly. This is a minor problem that is remedied by the oversized common name, which of course is not alphabetized but more recognizable. A page is dedicated to over 100 of the most common herbs used. It tells you how to cultivate the individual herb and it's uses, which includes the medicinal use. Even if I don't use all the herbs or have them growing in my garden it is fascinating to know the historical and contemporary use of herbs. This book is a constant learning experience that can be read over and over. A perfect garden companion for that break under a tree. The knowledge can prove to be invaluable. Even such common herbs as Thyme can present posssibly new insights into it's benefits. Have trouble sleeping? The leaves of Thyme can help insomnia as well as stimulate the production of white corpusules to resist infection amongst it's many other attributes. There is much more information than I need here but there is something for everyone, from herbal dyes, to baths and massages and to the ever popular potpourri. This is, as the title suggests, the complete book on herbs. A great book for the kichen or to help you plan your herb garden, this book has as many uses as the author presents uses for the herbs.	2001-10-23
US	49709123	RP4764KNJGE7D	0060123443	183047551	Cuisines of Mexico	Books	5	50	52	N	N	More than tacos	Throughout my many years of preparing Mexican meals, whether cooking for my family or to please guests entertaining, I've found this book indispensable. I've been using this book for twenty plus years and continue to this day to use it for quick reference. The recipes are authentic, equisite and often exotic culinary delights explained in simple text with instructions that any novice cook can follow. If you like to create your own recipes this is a good springboard to follow one's own inclinations as well.  The book is divided into three sections. Part one gives an informative tour of the ingredients and procedures used in Mexican cooking, complete with historical background and identifying drawings and photographs. Part two is the corazon(heart) of the book with all the delicious recipes from way down south. Part three is the conclusion and it includes information on sources and a pronuncaition guide. I have found part one to be particularly interesting and helpful especially when it comes to the use of the lesser known herbs. Some of the ingredients are nearly impossible to find and there are no satisfactory replacements. This is where I learned about huitlacoche, a fungas that forms on the ears of corn that makes for a delicious soup or filling for quesadillas.  I've sampled this dish on both sides of the border but never found the fungas at local markets. Another simple treat is squash blossoms used for a filling in quesadillas  The recipes are easy to follow and when several stages are involved it is explained perfectly. After travelling in the interior of Mexico I longed for some of the dishes I sampled and this book has allowed me to prepare the dishes north of the border. Have some broth left from the frijole(bean) pot, tortillas, some chicken leftovers and tomatoes or tomato soup? If you do then you have the basis for Sopa Tarasca which will warm you up on a winter day. Sopa Tarasca, a meal in itself, is an example that is easy enough to prepare and well worth the effort. There are countless recipes that employ ingredients that may be thrown out rather than eat the same thing. The colored photgraphs and drawings are a nice touch, but this isn't a cook book with glossy perfection on each page, the recipes are what counts here. Diana Kennedy is a world renowned expert on the cuisines of Mexico and has been decorated with the order of the Aztec Eagle, the highest honor given to foreigners. She is the high priestess of Mexican cooking and her book is a tresure that belongs in any kitchen that prepares authentic Mexican cuisine.rth the effort. There are countless recipes that employ ingredients that may be thrown out rather than eat the same thing. The colored photgraphs and drawings are a nice touch, but this isn't a cook book with glossy perfection on each page, the recipes are what counts here. Diana Kennedy is a world renowned expert on the cuisines of Mexico and has been decorated with the order of the Aztec Eagle, the highest honor given to foreigners. She is the high priestess of Mexican cooking and her book is a tresure that belongs in any kitchen that prepares authentic Mexican cuisine.	2001-10-23
US	49709123	R13Y4W36V5O6HM	0306800438	975791329	Coltrane Chasin' The Trane	Books	4	11	11	N	N	A basic primer	Think of this as the cliff notes edition of the life of John Coltrane. An alternate title could be &quot;I Remember Trane.&quot; The book moves quickly over the first part of his life and concentrates mostly on his recording years. The early struggling years that were characterized by drugs is glossed over and pretty much picks up in ernest with his quiting in 1957. The best parts of this easy to read book are the lines attributed to his friends or those that knew him.  The insights are clearly evident throughout the book as it is filled with little known tid bits as shared by people who crossed paths with the man. It seems everyone had an opinion or crossed paths with Trane. There are studio recollections, club dates, both on and off stage memories, diary excerpts but most of all reflections on the part of fellow musicians. Some of the encounters are remarkeable, like the time Gato Barbieri, the Argentine saxophonist, met him backstage in Europe and saw the sax case he had sent Coltrane. Coltrane exclaimed &quot;you're from Argentina&quot; and was unaware that Gato was the man who had sent the monographed leather case. The personal recollections make this a memorable book and a quick reference point for further and more detailed reading. The pictures are minimal but historically worthy. I would recommend this book to people who are interested in Coltrane and would like to get some quick and easy insights into the legendary sax great. This is Coltrane 1A, there is ample room for further knowledge, beginning with his music.	2001-10-17
US	49709123	R1KLUJB5JR8VRV	0871137380	189891237	Black Hawk Down: A Story of Modern War	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Lessons to be learned	This is an exciting tale of heroism, a day of infamy that is known as the Battle of the Black Sea. This is also a tale of horror and the disgraceful foreign policy that allowed 99 American soldiers to drop down in Somalia only to withdraw after more than seventy soldiers were injured and eighteen died. Mark Bowden does an excellent job of describing the nuances of war, the soldiers humor to disguise fright, the mens committment to each other, loyality in the face of death and the supreme sacrifice for one's country. The story moves along quickly yet slowly, a battle that lasted slightly more than a day  seems like forever in this glimse into hell. It is a story of patiotism where men trust the decisions made by the policy makers and those that have led them into battle. America's finest went in to capture two lieutenants of a warlord with all the weaponry and the Somalias fought back and made the United States pay a dear price. It is a grissly tale of entrails and body parts destroyed and salvaged, strewn about the streets of Mogadishu amidst the tattered lives that would be changed forever on a fatefull couple of days in October 1993. No one is spared in war, men and women, children and animals are all part of the legacy left behind in the wasteland, some maimed so badly they might be better off dead. There were no winners only losers. There were only winners no losers. Read the book and you be the judge. I read this book after the tragic events of 9/11 becuase I knew the US would have to eventually use similar tactics in persuit of the terrorists. After the bombing has done it's damage the Delta Force and Rangers will lead the way as they did Somalia on special operations. I hope the lessons were learned by the brass and the errors can be corrected as learned from the mistakes made in Mogadishu. This book is highly suggested reading material as a preview for our sending ground troops into Afghanistan. Let us not make the same mistakes.	2001-10-17
US	49709123	R2YSTV1XF89P39	0140445625	977366519	A Short Account of the Destruction of the Indies	Books	4	82	90	N	N	A written protest	There are two sides to every story and the fact that De Las Casas takes the side of the indigenous people as opposed to his native Spain is especially poignant. The writing style is repititive, old world and filled with the horrors of war but De Las Casas does this to especially hammer home his point. He gives examples, over and over, of the injustices carried out by Cortez and Pizarro throughout the Americas from Mexico to Peru, under the auspices of the flag and cross, all in the name of God and country. It is a first hand report on the atrocities that greed and glory created. It was a plea for his King to understand how his represenatives abroad and the encomienda had drifted far from the ideals originally intended  and persued. The woodcuts reproduced from a 17th century version are especially telling of the cruelties imposed with graphic examples. There are groups of people being strung up and burned alive with their feet barely dangling above the flames. The violence was inhumane to the point where women hung themselves with their children attached and hung to their bodies rather than be a meal to the hungry dogs that assisted the Spaniards and had to be fed. The genocidal colonization became a perverted vision of evangelization that was nothing short of hell for the Indians. It is important to see the other side of colonization, as written by the &quot;The Defender and Apostle of the Indians&quot; to understand both sides of the story. Our education system is full of European versions of the conquest, this is the anti-European version by someone who lived the experience. Recommended for students of history that want a different perspective from the one we are most familiar with that glitters from behind a golden cross.	2001-10-03
US	49709123	RZYO0BN6Y2HE7	0517103184	187373354	Arms and Armor of the Samurai: The History of Weaponry in Ancient Japan	Books	4	13	14	N	N	Chi	A completely fascinating look at one of the most intriguing periods of history, the Ancient Japanese period equivilent to Medieval Europe. This book details the arms and armor of the Samurai class that dominated the battles, protecting their aristocratic interests, the Samurai were the champions of their era, always following the code of Bushido. This book is superb in it's presentation of rare photographs of authentic weapons and clothing worn by the Samurai, imcluding the beginnings with archery and weapons of hand to hand combat. The novice historian will be fascinated by the intricate breastplates made of leather, often embellished to the point of art. The helmets are elegant displays of fine tooling and craftsmanship . The arms themselves are exquisite. The blades of the swords or daggers are hammered with fine details that was only fitting of the Samurai class but the fine craftsmanship continues to this day. The similarities to the arms and armor of Europe are interesting and when taken as individual pieces they are at times hardly distinguishable. The Japanese culture however is reflected in the terrifying masks worn to frighten their opponents. The face plates are beautiful representations of a wonderful culture. The ornate wormanship involved in all facets of the &quot;war gear&quot;can only be considered art now as it is so intricate and detailed that it amazes the senses. An example is the display of delicate tsuba or sword guards that have intricate patterns or designs that are nothing less than inspirational pieces of art. The totality of the outfits are mind boggling in terms of sheer beauty. This book is an excellent addition to the novice historian's library or collector of books relating to Japanese culture or what I call art. The excellent glossary is ideal for the novice who desires to know more than just what a katana is. Every piece of arms or armor is given in the language of the Samurai and explained in English. An extremely useful tool for a middle or high school instructor  to compliment his course on World or Japanese history. This book is a treasure of text and photographs of one of the most colorful periods in history.middle or high school instructor  to compliment his course on World or Japanese history. This book is a treasure of text and photographs of one of the most colorful periods in history.	2001-07-20
US	49709123	R36LT303IMTDVV	0847804550	980364919	Rufino Tamayo	Books	5	15	15	N	N	&quot;Constellation of forces&quot;	One of the true masters of American art of the 20th century, the Mexican artist Rufino Tamayo was able to incorporate pre-Columbian ideas and transform them into contemporary visions. This is an excellent book worth finding as there is a relatively new edition(1995) from Spain superceeding the original published in 1982. The book has beautiful color prints from the various museums of the world where the masterpieces are now found. There are over 280 color prints, an excellent chronology that includes his sculptures and murals and an informative basic bibliography for future reference. Twelve different countries house the works used in this wonderful book, more than fifty different museums or university's with the vast majority being in the United States are the basis for the incredible paintings displayed in this book. The text provided is a fascinating read in the words of the artist himself, explaining his art including thoughts on the various influences on his prolific career. Of course, the French art critic and author of several books, Jacques Lassaigne does a masterful job of discussinfg the training of Tamayo, and the influences of chemistry and geometry on the works of Tamayo. An addional bonus is the introduction by the late great poet and essayist, Octavio Paz. Paz's views come from the original 1982 publication, where Paz gives his opinions on Tamayo's works and characterizes it as a &quot;non-human vision of space and time&quot; and how &quot;the sybolism of ancient art becomes transfiguration&quot; in the hands of Tamayo. The colorful paintings, the use of symbolism as metaphor are photographed here on thick paper stock for a book that is of heirloom quality. I highly recommend seeking out this book for an experience in picture and text that is as otherworldly as the art itself. There are many books on Tamayo but this is quite simply one of the best and it is with good reason that a new edition has become available. This is a book that is inspirational and great for any lover of American art.and great for any lover of American art.	2001-07-18
US	49709123	R1DSQIBLC3M2EN	0745317006	905822388	Che: Images of a Revolutionary	Books	5	20	20	N	N	Best photos	Anyone interested in one of the 20th centuries most enigmatic and charismatic figures will love this book. This is an excellent source to compliment the book by Jon Anderson or to enjoy by itself. Filled with over 400 photgraphs, many rare and never seen before, this book captures the image of the man in the various years of his life, most notably his years spent in Cuba. To see the man in all his glory, whether it be sipping his beloved mate, smoking a cigar or fighting his guerrilla war somewhere, his face is unforgetable and this book shows the many facets of his personality. The text is an easy read that can be read in one sitting but the pictures are priceless and require one's attention over and over. This is a book that sits prominently in full view in my house for quick browsing. The photos are exquisite, taken from various sources including one's taken by Che himself. Of particular interest is a section of the book that deals with the now fanous photo taken by Korda that is the image most people know of Che. This is the image that adorns everything from t-shirts to money that was taken during a service for for the victims of an explosion on a ship in 1960, one of the images of our times.  The contact strip is included and the various degrees of differences can be noted. Of even more interest is the image of Che's corpse that was displayed by the Bolivian authorites and a comparison to the art of Mantegna's Dead Christ. The resemblance is uncanny. The open eyes of Che, even in death, are more alive than many of the people alive who walk around with tombstones in their eyes. This is an excepional book that chronicles the life and times of Ernesto Guevara, portraying an image in text and magnificent photographs of the man, not the myth, known as Che.	2001-07-17
US	49709123	RG3OBI94IQ1N4	0802135587	549818269	Che Guevara: A Revolutionary Life	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Simply the best	Having read the hardcover version of this book in the summer it was released it is good to see that the paperback version is available. Coming in at nearly 800 pages it is no easy weekend read but worth the time invested. Mr. Anderson has done extensive research, clarified inaccuracies in previous works by other authors on the life of Che and treats the subject of his life objectively. Mr.Anderson spent much of the time in Cuba rsearching  this masterpiece, probably the dfinitive biography, with the help of Aleida March, his wife and her aide Maria del Carmen Ariet who together are probably the foremost experts on the life of Che Guevara. The story is complete from the birth of Che, his upbring and close relationship to his mother, the formative years, including his education and doctor training, his spirit for adventure as exemplified early on with his famous motorcycle excusion through South America, his fateful meeting with Fidel Castro and of course his participation in the overthrow of the Batista regime in Cuba and the aftermath which eventually would prove to be his demise. Many excellent reviews have been wriiten about this book and I only want to endorse the overwhelming positive majority and say that this book is a cut above the plethora of books about Che. If you have an interest in the life of one of the true revolutionary spirits of the 20th century this is a landmark book that answers many questions. An excellent book for the historian or someone just curious about the man known as Che. Mr. Anderson seperates fact from ficion and helps the reader understand the man from the myth. The human being is revealed and  politics aside one comes away with compassion for the man who gave so much of himself, even his life,for the beliefs he held to be true. No greater love can a man display than to give of his life. Read this book, get to know Ernesto Guevara, the man known as Che.	2001-07-16
US	49709123	R2XC5DT7F28HPX	0679732225	331874231	Christopher Unborn	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Brilliant	This book was written on the eve of the 500th year anniversary marking the fateful encounter between the Spanish Euoropeans and the various indigenous groups of the Americas. Not so coincidently, the prolific, briliant writer Carlos Fuentes sets the circumstances to this novel to coincide with the event. The premise for the book is a contest being held in Mexico with a great prize offered for the first born child on the 500th anniversary of Columbus's arrival. The child is Christopher, the narrator of the novel who makes shrewd observations about the world he will be born into,  all from the comfort of inside his mother. This allows Fuentes, the author, to rip into all of the ills of modern Mexico with his usually witty and sharp use of lanuage. A master at manipulation of common laguage, he changes the words to fit his vision. Several examples of how he changes words are Mexico City to Makesicko City, Kafkapulco, Quasimodo City, Samsaville, Huitzilopochtliburg or President Dangerous Dickson before the Watergate Waterloo, blockabulary for vocabulary,Califurnace, PornoCorno, Coca-Culo and Acapukelco(or did I make this last one up?). However this is nothing compared to the daggers Christopher throws at everything from the devastation of the earthquake and the aftermath, the PRI, Mexican history and all it's tragic consequences including the massacre at Tlateloco, the narco-polices ties to the narco traffickers themselves and in short, all is fair game for Fuentes via his narrator Christopher. His observations on popular culture include everything from Lennon to Lenin to Boy George. It is a scathing, passionate view of the world Chistopher will enter. Christopher contends his nine months inside his mother are when his life began and this comfort and fear of what is out there make the narration a brutal, wry, cynical commentary. The satirical view is enhanced by a cast of characters who all are part of the make up of a world Christopher will inherit. The action of the novel is a backdrop for a political campaign and all it's cast of characters both  for and against.Some of the names of these politicos and associates are Deng Chopin, Hipi Toltec, Fagoaga, Matamoros Moreno, Robles Chacon and D.C Buckley just to name a few. Coming in at over five hundered pages it is no easy read but totally enjoyable. The literature flows beautifully, creating images as only Carlos Fuentes can. As one of the  preeminent writers of our times, Fuentes unleashes a novel for the times that will be reflected upon years from now as a masterpiece marking the collision of worlds that occurred  five hundred years ago. This is an excellent book for educators at the AP level in high school or college to use for a literature class or to supplement a history course. Highly recommended for anyone interested in Mexico and it's contemporary literature.ovel is a backdrop for a political campaign and all it's cast of characters both  for and against.Some of the names of these politicos and associates are Deng Chopin, Hipi Toltec, Fagoaga, Matamoros Moreno, Robles Chacon and D.C Buckley just to name a few. Coming in at over five hundered pages it is no easy read but totally enjoyable. The literature flows beautifully, creating images as only Carlos Fuentes can. As one of the  preeminent writers of our times, Fuentes unleashes a novel for the times that will be reflected upon years from now as a masterpiece marking the collision of worlds that occurred  five hundred years ago. This is an excellent book for educators at the AP level in high school or college to use for a literature class or to supplement a history course. Highly recommended for anyone interested in Mexico and it's contemporary literature.	2001-07-09
US	49709123	R3ESO6ZYIAUHOT	0486227944	845619999	Designs from Pre-Columbian Mexico (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	5	34	35	N	N	Useful and beautiful motiffs	I have both books by the late Jorge Enciso who did the world a great service by carefully collecting these various designs from the archeological digs of the Mexicas, Toltecs, Totonacs and others.All the designs are black and white and come from various museums and private colections including that of the great Mexican painter Diego Rivera. The designs come from malacates which were small spindles made of clay by the pre-columbiam cultures. There are approximately 2-4 designs per page which allows for clarity for the artists use for reproduction. With the use of computers many of these images may be reproduced for use in any type of creative endeavor where a Mexican motiff is desired. An artist may find the designs inspirational for a new creation or use the existing image as is. Simple geometric designs, including images of humans, animals, flowers both real and imagined give a concise and visual glimpse at the ancient cultures imagery . This is an excellent source book that is useful for a variety of projects and applications for all interested in pre-columbian motiffs. Recommended for teachers, students and artists of all ages. Guaranteed to amaze all with the simplicity of the motiffs yet astound with the imaginative results. This is a worthwhile addition to ones personal libray to be filed under Art or Mexico. School librarians would be helping their students by adding this to their collection of books.	2001-07-09
US	49709123	RPAG0QVKBTL32	0713722851	94670970	Samurai Warriors	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Priceless illustrations	A fascinating read from an even more fascinating time period, Samuarai Warriors is an accessible history book for teachers and students alike. This book details various time periods and documents the &quot;knights&quot; of Medieval Japan. It begins with the period known as the Heian Period and the first known use of the term samurai and concludes with the end of the samurai as a seperate class in 1876, when it became forbidden to wear a sword. The urban samurai ceased to exist. The book follows a chronological order, dividing the book into periods of history concluding with the fall of the Tokugawa at the end of the Edo period. There are some interesting side excursions into history such as a section on the Christian Samurai. It tells the story of religious persecution both to Buddahists and Christians and how opposition to this intolerance arose and ultimately Twenty-Six Saints were crucified and became martyrs. It also tells of the banishment and expelling of all missionaries. Another interesting side bar is the discusion of the ronin or masterless samurai who was a renegade of sorts, the stuff of countless legends and even the subject of some films, most noticeably by Kurosawa. The information is a good steping stone for further exploration but typically for the novice it is suffice.This book is authoritative but not overly dry or pedantic as Turnbull teams up again with James Field for some of the best illustrations I've ever seen on the subject. The illustrations are superb and the photographs enhance the subject matter. This is a perfect book to compliment a teachers course on Japanese History or for the interested student of Japan or it's samurai.	2001-07-06
US	49709123	R12JYBO05ADLV9	1853141178	850730457	Ninja: The True Story of Japan's Secret Warrior Cult	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Truth is stranger than fiction	Any book that claims to be &quot;The True Story&quot; has to be taken with a certain amount of sketimism but skeptics beware, there is an awful lot of documentation in this book. The moderen legends regarding the ninja are steeped in historical evidence dating back hundreds of years. Super powers have been attributed to the ninja for at least three centuries. The book begins with an excellent and concise introduction of the authors intent. Much information was gathered for this book and extensive research was compiled by Turnbull. Whereas the samurai is a known part of the history of Japan the ninja is schrouded in mysticim, espionage, guerrilla warfare, assassinations and even magic. The ninja was involved in the covert actions of the military and the the most powerful families who vowed for power. Turnbull begins with the ninja in historical terms, including it's roots from the Chinese language and continues with concrete examples of the exploits of some of the most legendary ninjutsu or those possessing ninja knowledge and skills. Miltary historical information is given throughout  and there are pictures and illustrations but what is missing is the fine illustrations of James Field who he has teamed up with before. I think Fields illustrations would have made the book better, more visually exciting and less dry. Turnbull gives scholarly detail to his writing to let the reader decide for himself whether it is truth or fiction. An example of this is how a well documented story relates when a great daimyo or warlord was assassinated while using the toilet. Accounts vary but the ninja version states that an assassin or ninja concealed himself in the sewage pit and thrust a sword at the critical moment up the daimyo's anus. Ouch!! Turnbull gives various detailed accounts of this same incident and it seems he did die while using the toilet but some accounts say he later dies by some other complications from using the toilet. There is even an acount of a ninja assassination by an &quot;angry ghost&quot;. The reader is left to decipher fact from fiction but nonetheless it is a fascinating read. Recommended for all interested in Japanese military history or stories and anecdotes about ninjas.ation by an &quot;angry ghost&quot;. The reader is left to decipher fact from fiction but nonetheless it is a fascinating read. Recommended for all interested in Japanese military history or stories and anecdotes about ninjas.	2001-07-06
US	49709123	R17AQE0PVUGRZK	0713723297	506665039	Samurai Warlords: The Book of the Daimyo	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Exquisite pictures and text	Anyone interested in the history of Japan by a Western writer should be familiar with the works of Cambridge educated Stephen Turnbull. Having read four of his books on Japanese history I can testify to the clarity and detail he puts into his writing. This book is no exception. The book is about the daimyo, the elite of the samurai who in turn were the elite of the military. So what Turnbull does is give a detailed account of the creme de la creme of the samurai class. Although the book can be a bit tedious for the novice Japanese historian it is complimented by wonderful illustrations, colorful plates by James Field and photographs of exquisite beauty. There is much to see in this book if the details of the military structure get too complicated. It helps to have a basic understanding of the historical periods dicussed, but not essential as Turnbull makes the information easy to understand. He covers two periods, the Sengoku Period(think feudal Japan) and the Edo Period which was the three centuries of peace that followed. The foundation was created for the daimyo during the age of war and carried over into the folowing period that was by contrast almost marked by the total absence of war. The code of conduct and honour of a samuarai, or bushido, is discussed as well as the various relationships to all parts of society. Turnball makes a correlation to the present and shows how allegiance to a group, in this case modern industry, and a leader are part of self- sacrifice for the good of the country. The plates, drawings, photographs and woodcuts are fascinating and spellbinding material for students of Japnese history. While teaching a class I used some of the plates to compliment the subject and found that students were totally captivated by the often graphic nature of the violent war scenes. One plate in particular was inspired by the fabulous film by Kurosawa entitled Ran, where the defeated warlords family commits suicide in a blazing castle. This is an excellent source book for anyone interested in the hisory of Japan, samurai or more specifically, the daimyo. Recommended for teachers and students alike, this book is worth seeking out if this subject interests you, there are few if any better authorites in this field.source book for anyone interested in the hisory of Japan, samurai or more specifically, the daimyo. Recommended for teachers and students alike, this book is worth seeking out if this subject interests you, there are few if any better authorites in this field.	2001-07-05
US	49709123	R127ZBV217MO58	0553072307	22028916	I Am Joaqu-In Yo Soy Joaqu-In	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Classic poem	Contrary to the spelling posted here for this title the name Joaquin is one word. That is why when I did a search for the title it came up zero. The book is worth finding. That aside this book is an epic poem  depicting the life and struggles of a fictionalized Joaquin who represents any Mexican on either side of the border. This is a bilingual publication that chronicles the history of Mexicans on either side of the Rio Grande. Written at the height of the civil rights movement this poem has been used in countless publications, theatre and film. It is a historical-social commentary that reflects the bi-cultural attitudes of those Mexicanos that grew put of that time period and came to be known as Chicanos. Each page has either a photograph or painting to help narrate the text. I cannot overemphasize the timeless beauty of this piece of writing. Thsi book will help someone who has trouble understanding the cultural differences between Mexicans and Americans and the new immigrants who've settled in the U.S. Any teacher of students can utilize the prose for both historical and social purposes. This is an ideal document to conduct a Socratic Seminar with. I highly recommend anyone who deals with young people of Mexican descent to seek out this book and use it. It is a moving piece of work that I read every so often, a reminder of who I am , where I came from, where I've been and where I'm going. Any page has sections that can be used for discussion by themselves or the whole book in it's entirety since it is very short. The book or poem is written in the first person and Joaquin represents every Mexicano. I leave you with an example that is typical and how the poem concludes &quot; I am the masses of my people and I refuse to be absorbed. I am Joaquin. The odds are great but my spirit is strong, my faith unbreakeable, my blood is pure. I am Aztec prince and Christian Christ. I SHALL ENDURE! I WILL ENDURE!&quot;	2001-06-08
US	49709123	RVY65HZEWF2VA	0822956349	24526817	Thaddeus Mosley: African American Sculptor	Books	4	1	1	N	N	An American original	The fusion of art and music sets the tone for the fine examples of sculpture created by Thadeus Mosley. This short book(86 pgs) is a masterful presentation of a postal worker turned sculptor, complete with other sculpures by such masters as Isamu Noguchi and Brancusi who influenced him. The influences of these artists and African art is evident in the works of Mr.Mosley. The book gives tremendous insight into the trials and tribulations of this particular artist, beginning with his humble roots and concluding with his retirement from the post office and full dedication to his art. His works are superb creations, using various media to create sculptures that defify tradition. Thadeus has used avariety of means to express himself in art , often using wood that he acquired from city workers or stone that he collected from demolished buildings. His works in stone are impressive as well as his wood carvings. His leaving of chisel marks accentuates the rhythmn and texture of the mans soul. He often uses jazz to inspire him while he works and the results are marks left in the wood  or stone that are highly rhythmic patterns that dance. This is an excellent book for anyone interested in understanding the mind of a sculptor, and seeing the path and works that define the experience. Undoubtably Thadeus Mosley is an American original contributing to the African- American experience with his tremendous art. Anyone interested in art, particularly sculpture will benefit from this book, I know I did. Easy to read the text can be read in one sitting and the photographs can be viewed over and over, they are truly marvelous and quite inspiring. Highly recommended for art enthuisiasts or those interested in the African-American experience.	2001-06-08
US	49709123	R23PN6YG16M657	0823003345	585937304	Heaven in Art (Fine Arts Oriental Book)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Poetry and paintings	This is a great little book that is smaller than the size of an average persons hand. The paintings come from the National Gallery in London and include masterpieces from such notables as Botticelli, Poussin, Baocci and Carravaggio. The literature used comes from masters of prose as well including such diverse writers as Edgar Allan Poe, St Augustine, Tolstoy, Mark Twain, Dylan Thomas and Dante to name a few. The paintings selected are divided into four sections basically, angels, Jesus, Mary and the saints. The book is printed and bound in Italy and is of good thick stock and very sturdy. The color is very good and the detail is exquisite. This book is a perfect companion for those moments alone when contemplation takes one beyond the mundane ordinary existence. The beauty of this book is the matching of poetry with a painting. Every painting is matched up with a piece of writting. Each painting is shot from various angles, often for dramatic effect, getting extreme closeups of the expressions on the subjects. The details of the individual paintings are brought to full light. The paintings are all magnificent representaions of inspired art that has withstood the test of time, through wars, plagues and famines and the inherent beauty of the art comes to life anew in this marvelous little paperback. At just over 140 pages this book can be read in one sitting but it is one that deserves to be kept handy to reflect upon often. A great book for those interested in the works of the masters ala carte.	2001-05-10
US	49709123	R4PVOTHBXEY61	0486200841	991078564	Design Motifs of Ancient Mexico (Dover Pictorial Archive)	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Valuable resource book	This book is a bargain and especially useful for artists working in various mediums that want to include the ancient designs of Mexico. All of the motiffs are authentic and come from extensive research with such collaborators as Mexico's National Museum  and it's diretors and associated profesors. Numerous individual contributors, such as artists like Diego Rivera and Miguel Covarrubias have contributed their own personal collections for reproduction. The author, Jorge Enciso, first published this book in 1947 and it has been out of print for quite awhile, that is until Dover Press came out with a paperback edition. The designs are all magnificent reproductions of stamps used in various parts of ancient Mexico. Many of the designs you've probably seen before in artwork where a Mexican motiff is used but there are countless others that are unique and rarely seen. Intricate, geometric designs abound as well as drawings that feature the natural world and the use of animal figures both real and imagined. The decorative patterns are eloborate manifestations of the cultures of pre-Columbian Oaxaca, Veracruz, Azcapotzalco, Yucatan, Puebla and Teotihuacan amongst others. Many of these designs are still used in the arts and crafts that are produced in these areas.There are more designs than any one artist could ever use. These designs are useful as well as springboards for other ideas inspired by the ancient designs. Dover Press has given permission to use up to ten designs for any project without permission so any artist can use them without copyright infringement. A very handy book for people interested in preserving the artistic traditions of Mexico.	2001-05-10
US	49709123	R2J3H7U6Y9GESX	1888869038	832600251	Reality Check	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Food for thought	The first thing one needs to know about this small book from 1996 is that it is outdated and not to be taken seriously. That aside it is still entertaining, much like a good piece of Sci-fi. Myself I would have liked Sci-fi writers like Arthur Clarke, William Gibson, Dan Simmons, Bruce Sterling(he does do the intro), Greg Bear, Octavia Butler or Nancy Kress to give their opinions on the various subjects. The predictions of the &quot;experts&quot; are just that, predictions. The research for the book is minimal and mostly conjecture. This is a fun book but much to tongue in cheek to be totally believeable. When the serious posturing is attempted one or two&quot;experts&quot; are given credit to substantiate a &quot;fact.&quot; This is more of a barometer of trends in a ever changing cyber based society. Since it was written in the last century, the computer has helped to accelerate the outdated information the book so prophetically espoused. Part hype, part fantasy, the truth lies somewhere between, it is up to the reader to predict after listening to the &quot;experts.&quot; Beginning with predictions for 1997 and going through 2055 the authors tackles everything from medicine to online shopping and smart drugs to virtual sex. Many of the things are those that have been hyped for years already now such as cryonics and the electric car. The drawings and pictures are just as interesting as the text(one page per prediction) because it is a mix of digital inspired art and campy fifties style futuristic drawings, very funny stuff next to the &quot;futuristic predictions.&quot;  Easy to read, this book can be read in it's entirety or in sections that appeal to ones personal tastes. It does make you think about the possibilities for the future. Myself I'm waiting for the self cleaning toilet coming in 2006 but I don't think I'll be here for the virtual sex slave coming in 2055.	2001-05-10
US	49709123	R1ADU8L0AK2UK8	0811805131	275655258	Folk Wisdom of Mexico / Proverbios y dichos mexicanos	Books	4	18	18	N	N	Small in size large in wisdom	This is a concise choice collection of dichos or sayings that are like folk proverbs. Known a dichos, these are various small sayings that carry a lot of wisdom in their delivery. Reflective of Mexican cultural values, the dichos are expressive manipulations of language, creative rhythms and reasons for life and its complexities. One can hardly turn a page without laughing or at times scratching your head in the simplicity and yet profound sayings. Given to me as a gift recently, this book is a fun read. My only complaint is I wish it were longer and had more dichos. It is geared for a younger reader in my estimation but the universal themes have the wisdom of an ageless appeal. The drawing or paintings are numerous and very colorful and attractive further revealing the dichos. Based in the oral tradition of tales, the dichos cover a variety of subjects including love, money and politics amongst others, offering insights and wisdom for the reader. A simple read , it can be shared or read alone but regardless can be read in the time span of your average tv show. Now there's a concept, read something insightful intead of watching a not so funny sitcom!! The forward is written by noted writer and poet Gary Soto and the translations are loose, not literal. The idea is to catch some of the flavor of the original. A collection of dichos always has one you might not have possibly heard. A bilingual edition, my favorite newest dicho discovery is &quot;La amistad sincera es uns alma repartida en dos cuerpos/True friendship is one soul shared by two bodies&quot;, just beautiful and quite fitting if you know what I mean.  Very enjoyable and  worth the small price every child, young or old can enjoy the flavor of old Mexico in our modern times. Recommended for teachers, parents and all who enjoy sayings that are short and insightful glimpses into human nature.	2001-04-07
US	49709123	R7E35OK37WFWG	0375703691	689448233	La Diosa de las Amricas	Books	5	4	6	N	N	Nuestro Morenita del Tepeyac	Sin duda este es un libro que merece mas que los cinco estrellas, merece un numero como los tantos que tiene en su vestido gloriousa o mas bien los que existen en el universo. Esta collecion de ensayos, cuentos, poemas y hasta obra dramatica por various escritores famosos dan ofrrendas a La Guadalupana, La Diosa de Mexico, pero como los autores dicen, mas bien por todo Latino America. La version original del libro es en ingles. Los varios autores de este libro tienen algo en commun, saben el poder de La Guadalupana por primer experiencia o por otros conocidos. Aqui tienes tan diversos colaboradores como Sandra Cisneros y Luis Rodriquez, Nancy Mairs y Marcela Guijosa entre otros. Tambien puede leer los pensamientos de personas de otros paises como Rosario Ferre de Puerto Rico, Franciso Goldman quien estuvo en Centroamerica en los anos 80's, Yeye'Woro Luisah Teish con su perspectivo desde New Orleans y la religion Yoruba. Tambien puede descubrir los grandes de la lectura como Octavio Paz, Elena Poniatowski la gran ensayista , novelista y periodista y el voz de la cultura popular en Mexico, Carlos Monsivais. En breve aqui tiene una collecion de brillantes escritores de nuestro tiempo. No solo hay variedad y diferente estilos, pero ideas profundas que extende la imaginacion. Los interpretes hablan sobre todo que La Diosa, que aparecio en Tepeyac, al indio Juan Diego en 1531 tiene credito para hacer, es una historia extraordinario. Se menciona la conecion con la diosa que existia antes que los Espanoles vinieron a America. En el mismo sitio donde los Mexicas veneraban Tonantzin, hoy en dia, cada 12 de Deciembre millones de personas vienen de varios partes del mundo, muchas veces de rodillas a dar honor a la Guadalupana. Viene la gente por sus intenciones, demonstrando fe en sus convicciones, apasionante pidiendo celestial intercesiones. Atribuyen milagrosos fenomenos por sus humildes ofrezcas. Tambien se habla como la Virgen de Guadalupe se ha transformado desde principios a una mujer moderna que a estado por los lados de cuasas como los soldados de Emiliano Zapata durante la revolucion Mexicana, en las huelgas de California durante las 60's con Cesar Chavez, mas reciente ha sido subversiva con las feministas Chicanas y los disidentes Chicanos, y con los undocumentados cuando cruzan en busca de una vida mejor, por todos lados y todas partes donde la gente lucha por los derechos humanos. El culto de la patrona de Mexico ha crecido, unos dicen, hasta mas que  La Iglesia Catolica. En La Virgen muchos pueden tener la madre de Dios en su campo, pidiendo perdona por sus pecados, sabiendo que La Virgen puede hablar con su hijo por ellos. La madre de Mexico es mas que la madre de Dios, tambien representa el centro de la familia Mexicana. Como parte de esa familia aqui se habla de todos, los artistas que pintan su imagen en los murales por lugares tan distintos como Chicago, Los Angeles, Nuevo Mexico y la DF, los pandilleros que llevan tatuas por la espalda para protecion, la familia de La Guadalupana no discrmina entre sus ninos, todos son parte de su bendicion para los que se dedican a ella. Los testimonios estan aqui tambien, los milagrosos cambios de vida, el espiritu y las caracteristicos de personas que cambian tan dramaticamente que no mas pueden decir que lo deben a la dedicacion a La Virgen de Guadalupe.  Este libro es mas que lectura por escritores ingenio, este libro es parte del misterio de esta vida que nunca se entiende completamente. Aqui tiene unas llaves, abre la puerta y conozca la Virgencita Morena, la Guadalupe-Tonantzin, la felicidad de Mexico, La Diosa de las Americas, La Virgen de Guadalupe.os a una mujer moderna que a estado por los lados de cuasas como los soldados de Emiliano Zapata durante la revolucion Mexicana, en las huelgas de California durante las 60's con Cesar Chavez, mas reciente ha sido subversiva con las feministas Chicanas y los disidentes Chicanos, y con los undocumentados cuando cruzan en busca de una vida mejor, por todos lados y todas partes donde la gente lucha por los derechos humanos. El culto de la patrona de Mexico ha crecido, unos dicen, hasta mas que  La Iglesia Catolica. En La Virgen muchos pueden tener la madre de Dios en su campo, pidiendo perdona por sus pecados, sabiendo que La Virgen puede hablar con su hijo por ellos. La madre de Mexico es mas que la madre de Dios, tambien representa el centro de la familia Mexicana. Como parte de esa familia aqui se habla de todos, los artistas que pintan su imagen en los murales por lugares tan distintos como Chicago, Los Angeles, Nuevo Mexico y la DF, los pandilleros que llevan tatuas por la espalda para protecion, la familia de La Guadalupana no discrmina entre sus ninos, todos son parte de su bendicion para los que se dedican a ella. Los testimonios estan aqui tambien, los milagrosos cambios de vida, el espiritu y las caracteristicos de personas que cambian tan dramaticamente que no mas pueden decir que lo deben a la dedicacion a La Virgen de Guadalupe.  Este libro es mas que lectura por escritores ingenio, este libro es parte del misterio de esta vida que nunca se entiende completamente. Aqui tiene unas llaves, abre la puerta y conozca la Virgencita Morena, la Guadalupe-Tonantzin, la felicidad de Mexico, La Diosa de las Americas, La Virgen de Guadalupe.	2001-03-15
US	49709123	RRKK9EY9AESYF	0520004914	768111656	Cortes: The Life of the Conqueror by His Secretary	Books	5	11	11	N	N	How Cortes pulled it off	This book is highly recommended to any student of Mexican history, specifically the conquest by the Spaniards or any history buff for that matter. This book is a perfect companion to other primary sources such as [[ASIN:080705500X The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico]] or [[ASIN:B000JM58LK The True History of the Conquest of Mexico]]. Like the \\"True History of the Conquest\\" this is written from a Spaniards perspective and the early prejudicial nuances towards the indigenous cultures are prevalent. The disgust with the primitive ways that existed prior to their arrival is always mentioned, especially the eating of flesh and the Gods they believed in. The author was Cortes's personal secretary and chaplain. There are no dispariging  words towards Cortes as he is painted as most noble, loyal to the crown and ingenious in his statesmanship abroad. This is a controversial account as Cortes is given practically single handed credit for pulling off one of the greatest military victories of all time. Considering the odds in terms of sheer numbers Cortes was a genius to have pulled off the capture of Tenochitlan and establishing New Spain. The book covers the success of Cortes with his early adventures in Cuba as well as his childhood and youth. The later to show how his adventurous and cunning spirit grew. The translation is excellent in that it is not overly tedious with old world phrases and sentence structure. The translator of this work also translated a novel by Mariano Azuela, \\"Two Novels of Mexico\\" amongst many others. This is the first translation since the truncated version of Thomas Nicholas in 1578. This is a very fascinating read in that in goes in detail of every\\"step\\" along the way of the conquest. The reader follows Cortes from Veracruz and meets all the various hospitable Indios along the way. Those familar with the conquest will be aware of Cortes's manipulation of the various groups and his bid to unify them in an effort to depose Moctezuma. Of particular interest is the way Moctezuma was treated while under arrest and how his followers demanded more respect for him. The establishing of Christianity was of the utmost importance and it is amazing how the Spanish were able to remove the \\"idols\\" and establish Christian imagery in the existing houses of worship. The role of \\"La Malinche\\" is discussed as well. Cortes was treated as the loyalty he was but his was not enoough as he saw the gold that he convinced the natives to give them so that his men could cure the \\"illness\\" they had. This contrived illness I think is better known a greed. Cortes was given the finest gifts everywhere he went and the natives tried to keep him from entering Tenochitlan. The diseases and mutinies are all explained in detail and how Cortes , according to Gomara, single handedly managed to overcome all obstacles in his quest. The vital role of all tribes that were in oppositon to the Aztecs or Mexica, especially the Tlaxcalans is chronicled with clarity and extreme detail. The final attempts at resistance are also discussed with the inevitable torture and death of many including Cuahtemoc. All of Cortes speaches are included and it is very insightful how his oratory skills played a role in his leadership. The death of Moctezuna is most interesting as it does not signal the end of the conquest as one might believe. The last part of the book after the conquest deals with the establishing of New Spain and the problems Cortes encountered both personally and for the Crown. This is a great account of one of the most dramatic events that changed the course of history with the merging of the old world and the new world. This book is worth hunting down as it is a valuable first hand account of the conquest all be it through the bias of the European perspective. Included is a bibliography for further study and a helpful glossary.Moctezuma. Of particular interest is the way Moctezuma was treated while under arrest and how his followers demanded more respect for him. The establishing of Christianity was of the utmost importance and it is amazing how the Spanish were able to remove the \\"idols\\" and establish Christian imagery in the existing houses of worship. The role of \\"La Malinche\\" is discussed as well. Cortes was treated as the loyalty he was but his was not enoough as he saw the gold that he convinced the natives to give them so that his men could cure the \\"illness\\" they had. This contrived illness I think is better known a greed. Cortes was given the finest gifts everywhere he went and the natives tried to keep him from entering Tenochitlan. The diseases and mutinies are all explained in detail and how Cortes , according to Gomara, single handedly managed to overcome all obstacles in his quest. The vital role of all tribes that were in oppositon to the Aztecs or Mexica, especially the Tlaxcalans is chronicled with clarity and extreme detail. The final attempts at resistance are also discussed with the inevitable torture and death of many including Cuahtemoc. All of Cortes speaches are included and it is very insightful how his oratory skills played a role in his leadership. The death of Moctezuna is most interesting as it does not signal the end of the conquest as one might believe. The last part of the book after the conquest deals with the establishing of New Spain and the problems Cortes encountered both personally and for the Crown. This is a great account of one of the most dramatic events that changed the course of history with the merging of the old world and the new world. This book is worth hunting down as it is a valuable first hand account of the conquest all be it through the bias of the European perspective. Included is a bibliography for further study and a helpful glossary.	2001-03-12
US	49709123	R1ROTUWFNXBVM6	0312269048	226205735	Carlos Santana: Back on Top	Books	3	12	15	N	N	Lacking in substance	Well if you read the first reviewer and the editors opinion than you  pretty much have the essence of the book. I finished this book in two sessios of a few hours one Sunday. Was it the speed reading course I NEVER took? It is simple reading, maybe for simple minds like mine that just want to know more about a man whose story I grew up with. The problem is there are few revelations, a few tid bits but nothing of any substance. So why read it? I dunno, curiosity? You keep turning the pages anticipating something real &quot;juicy&quot;, some insight, some rock stories but it just isn't there. It is more like a trip down memory lane on the autobahn, you start and before you know it you're there, done. It seems the author wrote this book by speculating on his research. Sure the life of Carlos is chronicled but much too superficially. The problems with the original Santana members is discussed but most who grew up with Santana are aware of this history. Also reference to drug use is discussed, Carlos's appetite for the mind bending trips on LSD, Mescaline and Peyote, his cocaine days etc. etc. but it is shallow. The groupies and wild times are mentioned then gone. Of some interest is Carlos's brush with his musical idols, Miles Davis, Jimi(if you need to know the last name you shouldn't be reading this) and Alice Coltrane(again if you don't know the wife of who you're in the wrong place). The reader imagines Jimi's swagger and Carlos's fascination when they first meet and for what it's worth the supposed conversation in which Jimi wanted to join Carlos's band. The first part of the book deals with the early days, the second half with EACH and EVERY lp released and the various transformations Santana went through from local musician south of the border to Frisco(I know this irks dwellers of &quot;The City&quot;) and the Fillmore , from young hippie to (ooooooommmmmmmmmmmm) Devadip, from househusband born-again to his conversations with his angel Metatron that told him &quot;he would soon be hooked to the frequency of the radio&quot; and ultimately with &quot;Supernatural.&quot; There has always been a spiritual side to Santana and the book discusses this as well as his personal demons that he exorcized through therapy. The long strange trip of Santana is chronicled with way too much emphasis to the commercial failure of many lp's.  The problem is for many of us this was some of his best work, we were there all along. The private side of Santana, the spiritual side was what  many of us were going through and we could relate, life is not always a party. Would I recommend this book? Why not, an average reader could read it instead of the LA or NY Times Sunday edition. I suspect the author wanted to make a quick buck in the new found interest in Santana, tid bits for a new generation. For those of us that were around and whose lives parralled his there is not much here that we didn't already know. I think the writng is geared to young(school years)people so that those from a new generation who have discovered Santana can learn something about his long and at times trying musical career. Does it do justice to his life? Not really, this is not a definitive biography. If you do read this, put on a couple of CD's of Santana but just make sure not more than five as you'll finish the book first.ot;he would soon be hooked to the frequency of the radio&quot; and ultimately with &quot;Supernatural.&quot; There has always been a spiritual side to Santana and the book discusses this as well as his personal demons that he exorcized through therapy. The long strange trip of Santana is chronicled with way too much emphasis to the commercial failure of many lp's.  The problem is for many of us this was some of his best work, we were there all along. The private side of Santana, the spiritual side was what  many of us were going through and we could relate, life is not always a party. Would I recommend this book? Why not, an average reader could read it instead of the LA or NY Times Sunday edition. I suspect the author wanted to make a quick buck in the new found interest in Santana, tid bits for a new generation. For those of us that were around and whose lives parralled his there is not much here that we didn't already know. I think the writng is geared to young(school years)people so that those from a new generation who have discovered Santana can learn something about his long and at times trying musical career. Does it do justice to his life? Not really, this is not a definitive biography. If you do read this, put on a couple of CD's of Santana but just make sure not more than five as you'll finish the book first.	2001-03-06
US	49709123	R1P6LUFUQNT258	1570620261	482553858	Mexican Day of the Dead	Books	5	7	7	N	N	&quot;Earth is not our last home&quot;	Good things come in small packages is very true with this little book. At under a hundred pages and able to fit in your palm this is the perfect companion to take anyplace, anytime, anywhere. I recommend finding this authoritve book that is filled with many delightful pictures. The color and historical black and white photographs are all excellent, worth the price of the book alone. Anyone interested in the Day of the Dead and how it is celebrated in Mexico should add this little gem to their collection. Colectors like myself, of calaveras will love the Posadas, sugar skulls, papier-mache and other decorative skulls included in the book.  The color photographs are outstanding and very  different from the usual fair found in most books on this subject. Some of the historical photgraphs are of the rarely seen family portraits with children that have passed from this world.There is even a series of color postcards inside but it seems to be waste to pull them out. The text is minimal but highly informative complete with poems by Aztec kings and Sor Juana Inez De La Cruz honoring the dead. Several observers of the Mexican Day of the Dead are featured  most notably Sergei Eisensteini's thoughts and reflections when he made &quot;Que  Viva Mexico&quot;! There is a scene in the movie depicting the Day of the Dead and Eisenstein's scribbled notes, a primitive story book written on stationary from his stay at the Hotel Regis in Mexico city is included. An excerpt from Octavio Paz's &quot;Labyrinth of Solitude&quot; rounds out a concise view of the Day of the Dead. All in all this is a fascinating look and read of the celebration of death celebrated in November that dates back to the pre-conquest time period. The author, Chloe Sawyer, has written numerous books on Mexico and Peru and has lectured throughtout the world and is a Fellow of the Royal Anthropoligical Institute.	2001-02-22
US	49709123	R2V5WMLCYRUPQH	0810928213	199175619	The Aztecs: Rise and Fall of an Empire (Abrams Discoveries)	Books	5	16	16	N	N	A great little book	This a handy little book that can be taken with you anywhere, it is smaller than an average man's hand. It's an excellent source book for covering the the rise and fall of the Mexica(Aztec) civilization. The illustrations are wonderful reproductions of some of the most famous paintings of the conquest, including many from the murals of Diego Rivera. The paper is thick stock and fact filled with little commentary that is conjecture. The strength of this reference book is that it has many rarely seen pictures from an assortment of codexes and the reproductions are superb. Some are small but the quality remains so as to distinquish what you are looking at without any problem. The color in the illustrations is great and very much as the originals. Every page has at least one picture and most have numerous. It is visually stimulating to see as you read the history. Another strength of the book is that it has one third dedicated to documents. The conquest is retold, again, in a series of original documents, dating from the time period being discussed, most of which are primary documents. Anyone interested in Mexico and it's history will benefit from this book. Also anyone interested in art will enjoy the collection of illustrations throughout book. This is an excellent, little, wealth of information waiting for the student of Mexican history.	2001-01-31
US	49709123	R3SEE0JCHMDY97	0810981475	239822523	Prado	Books	5	24	25	N	N	A renowned collection	This is an exquisite table top book that you won't want to shelve anytime soon. Lavish in detail the book has 275 paintings that are world famous. The time period covered is the 12th right up through the 20th century. No easy task to get a sampling from the Prado, one of the greatest museums in the world. The author manages just that as he doesn't over emphasive the &quot;known&quot; masters and unveils some of the lesser and even unknown artists.Since the author, Santiago Alcolea Blanch, a renowned art historian, is Spanish, there is a leaning towards the works of the well known Spanish masters like El Greco and Velasquez, right up to the more modern Picasso. This is not to say that it only features Spanish artists as it includes the masters from throughout Europe. Anyone interested in art will love and benefit from this book. There is much to be learned from superb works that have withstood world wars and other atrocities of mankind and been viewed by millions of people. The first paintings revealed are those painted on murals and board, eventually working its way to oil on canvas. Since much of the works from the masters is of a religious nature one will find superb paintings inspired from the divine, mans earliest works as manifested through his interpretations of God and his glory. Marveling at these works leaves no doubt about the everlasting impression this subject matter must have had on the artists. That we would be given the opportunty to view such inspirational works from the comforts of our living rooms is an additional blessing. The works are not limited to religious themes as there are countless portraits of the nobility and loyalty that shaped the world events of their time and even directed the course of history. These were the photographs of their day, long before digital images could be loaded instantly on a computer, only the wealthy could afford such a luxury. The works, as percieved through the eyes of the artist are uncommon and magnificent testimonials of a bygone era. As an additional bonus the book is also a history book. The first 139 pages are a concise explanation of the origins of the Royal Collection and the Academy of Fine Arts. Included in the historical tour are great black and white photographs of the Prado in various time periods, including draft plans for the additions. Each director is profiled in story book fashion to illustrate the achievements and problems encountered during their time as directors. Captivating and informative, the written word in this book is an excellent source of information for the art historian. Follow the trial and tribulations of those most influential in giving the world one of it's greatest museums. For furhter exploration there is also a pretty extensive bibliography. This is a quality book that any lover of art will cherish, highly recommended for those that like the works of the masters.timonials of a bygone era. As an additional bonus the book is also a history book. The first 139 pages are a concise explanation of the origins of the Royal Collection and the Academy of Fine Arts. Included in the historical tour are great black and white photographs of the Prado in various time periods, including draft plans for the additions. Each director is profiled in story book fashion to illustrate the achievements and problems encountered during their time as directors. Captivating and informative, the written word in this book is an excellent source of information for the art historian. Follow the trial and tribulations of those most influential in giving the world one of it's greatest museums. For furhter exploration there is also a pretty extensive bibliography. This is a quality book that any lover of art will cherish, highly recommended for those that like the works of the masters.	2001-01-20
US	49709123	R3OVSN2NKC12F7	0898154286	203661655	The Great Chile Book	Books	4	31	31	N	N	What kind of chile is that?	A fabulous resource book for the chile head or novice seeking knowledge. The book is limited on the written word except for a brief survey. The survey gives you all the general information needed for the average person interested in cooking with heat. The strength of this book lies in it's beautiful color photographs that are the actual size of the chile itself. This book serves a number of purposes, one of which is the identification of the various closely related strands od chiles. Probably the most commonly known chile is the jalepen~o but there are variations. One is knnown as huachinango that originates from Oaxaca and the Puebla region. I was able to identify the huachinango chile from my garden after first thinking it was an ordinary jalapen~o. Turns out they have a distinct &quot;sweetness&quot; and are a highly prized, (translation, they cost 3-4 times more) and are used to make &quot;chipotle grande&quot; in it's dried form. There are a few chiles that are exotic and unfamiliar to most people outside of the area of origin. There is a section showing four different types of the ever growing in popularity habanero. The dried chile section is informative and provides helpful hints in curing your own chiles. There is a small receipe section that compliments the chile heads kitchen. To round it all out there is a source of information with addresses and phone numbers for chile seeds and fresh and dried chiles. A handy little book for the amateur grower of chiles or cook who on occasion forays into the kitchen to serve up some heat.	2001-01-11
US	49709123	RIH7MINSYUPA1	0898156386	335040401	The Habanero Cookbook	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Capsicum most hottest	If you're a garden grower of habaneros and don't quite know what to do with your harvest this book provides some good ideas. Since the habanero is so hot not much is needed to heat up a dish, but this little book provides so many suggestions that you'll have many choices. Many of the recipes are very exotic and unless the caribbean is your usual vacation spot you may not have tried these recipes. Jerk sauces abound, as do searing soups, spicy seafood and that super bowl favorite, salsa. The recipes are worldly yet simple. Wouldn't your seafood loving guests just love a little grilled Salmon Borracho, topped with habanero-lime butter with a side of Belizean Coconut Rice? The average stocked kitchen could serve this fare without a trip to the store. This is just one example of your passport to fiery cuisine. There are so many different types of salsa recipes that the combinations will amaze you. After browsing this book you'll be ready to create your own salsa variations or follow the easy recipes provided. The glossary is basic but the mail order sources provided are valuable for those who need seeds to grow their own heat or have some habanero products delivered to their home. An addional treat is the bibliography which lists various books for further exploration. A great book for the habanero chile head.	2001-01-11
US	49709123	R30S4VWJXOGCFY	0316182230	958608921	The Whole Chile Pepper Book	Books	5	24	24	N	N	As indispensible as salt	A total source book, everything one needs to know about chiles is here. Part science book, complete with botanical information, part history book with all the 411 on origins of the various chiles, but mostly a recipe book. The beauty of this book lies in the fact that exposure is given to the use of chile throughtout the world. Typically many think of the dishes of Mexico and it's southern neighbors as &quot;hot&quot; food, but this book shows the use of the chile in cuisines throughout the world. The interesting tidbits of information provided about how the chile came to be a part of the cuisine is most fascinating. Old world meets new world cuisines. Many of the recipes are tradional fares that can be found in other books but the truly exotic, different cuisine awaits those who have adventurous taste buds. In the mood for a little African soup? A simple enough recipe consisting mainly of peanut butter, chiles, chicken broth and the usual suspects of diced onions, carrots and oil and you're ready for a starter on your menu. An excellent book for someone looking to serve up some fiery worldly cuisine the book offers recipes on some of the most exotic dishes imagineable. A great book to be used over and over again, year after year, your friends will be impressed when you serve them up something yummy they have never tried before.	2001-01-11
US	49709123	R1FIV0XHWC1AB5	0842329285	858455094	The Indwelling: The Beast Takes Possession (Left Behind #7)	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Is he dead or not?	I'm getting ready to read the latest installment in the &quot;Left Behind&quot; series so I thought I'd review this one. I've reviewed all the others I've read. A side note. When &quot;The Beast&quot; came out I was looking it over in a bookstore and a lady says &quot;I read it, its  a good book&quot;. Mind you it had only been a day or two in the bookstores, man,  I can't stand smug people! I immediately put it back least she think she influenced my purchase. Face it if you've read the others why stop now? This one is full of suspense and intrigue. Is the bad guy dead or will he rise up? Can good overcome evil? Who will be left? The question of who shot Carpathia is more intriguing than who shot JR. The grassy knoll and the Warren Commission have nothing on this story. Was it the lone gunman, better check the video tape. Just be sure Fortunato(Carpathia's heir apparent) doesn't ask you to look into his eyes first, he is more wicked than Bela Lagosi in a vampire movie. These are just some of the questions that are raised in this seventh installment in the controversial series. There are more safe houses than 7 elevens in Chicago now so be on the look for the mark, just make sure it doesn't erase. It really does move along very nicely but as it has been my complaint all along it is a little drawn out and anti-climatic at times. A good book for believers and non-believers alike, think of it as a piece of fiction. Be careful though, as they say, truth is stranger than fiction. Enjoy the ride, there are no paths to enlightenment in this preachy book just questions that may help one live a better life. Easy to read, this is the kind of book that doesn't require a dictionary. Recommended for those who like their suspense and Bible lessons rolled into one. Worth reading if you've made it this far, but you probably know that already.	2000-12-11
US	49709123	R1A8KRUFNZKSDZ	0941104249	481734371	The Art of Rini Templeton: Where There Is Life and Struggle/Spanish-English Edition (Spanish and English Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	It's worth it/Vale la pena	This is a small book packed with illustrations, paintings and sculptures by the late activist/artist Rini Templeton. If you were involved in any of the &quot;struggles&quot; of the past in the southwest you've probably seen her work. Her art is about the people and the causes she championed. Her art is the type used for picket signs, newsletters, announcements, posters and illustrations for various books both known and unknown. She did the illustrations for John Nichols, &quot;The Milagro Beanfield War&quot; which was later turned into a movie. Her works are not just plain black and white line drawings as mnay of her sculptures are exquisite, as are her color prints. She traveled extensively and her works document the various struggles that took place during the turbulent 60's and it's aftermath up until her untimely death in 1986. She died at age 51 and one can only wonder what she may have accomplished had she lived a full life. She probably did more in her short life than most do who live to be 80. She created art and participated in many activites in Cuba, Mexico and the US, particularly the southwest. Her drawings are mostly black ink, woodcuts and silkscreens that are exceptionally powerful and very moving. There is some text in the book but so little that it can be read in one sitting. At the end of the book there are remembrances by her friends who honor her with stories about her life. The text accompaying the drawings explains(not needed) the particulars of the struggle she was illustrating. An inspirational artist who dedicated her life and art to the people she must have so loved. She even went as far as to encourage the reproduction of her works for any &quot;just cause&quot;. This is an excellent book for anyone interested in art, college students or people involved in social change and activism. Currently her works are used in immigrants rights issues. Her art is available and lives on to continue the struggle. Her last graphic works were done for two books entitled &quot;Tlatelolco Mi Amor&quot; and &quot;Como Quieres&quot; both by Daniel Molina. The bilingual nature of the book is super and layed out as such that if you have trouble with a word in either language you can gain easy reference by looking at the more familiar language. The text is side by side in Spanish and English. A very interesting person but one can only wonder what works she could have produced had she chose a more commercial path. Her works live amongst us as the issues she championed continue, the times have changed but some things remain the same. Her spirit lives on wherever there is life and struggle.books entitled &quot;Tlatelolco Mi Amor&quot; and &quot;Como Quieres&quot; both by Daniel Molina. The bilingual nature of the book is super and layed out as such that if you have trouble with a word in either language you can gain easy reference by looking at the more familiar language. The text is side by side in Spanish and English. A very interesting person but one can only wonder what works she could have produced had she chose a more commercial path. Her works live amongst us as the issues she championed continue, the times have changed but some things remain the same. Her spirit lives on wherever there is life and struggle.	2000-11-21
US	49709123	RHYG7ZKYIFYY6	0500279284	880884652	An Illustrated Dictionary of the Gods and Symbols of Ancient Mexico and the Maya	Books	5	136	140	N	N	Gift from the Gods	I am not a seven year grad student of the authors but a curious amateur anthropologist, former history teacher who loves art. That said this is the perfect book for the average layman, not too technical or with an overabundance of esoteric jargon. ... This book is filled with just about everything you need to know about the fabulous cultures that existed in Meso-America. All the famous cultures are covered including the Toltecs, Olmecs, Zapotecs and every other &quot;tec&quot; or &quot;mec&quot; you could imagine. Although the focus is the Gods, it is nearly impossible to cover the Gods without adressing the issue of culture. Some very fascinating information that even the most knowledgeable of readers will find captivating. Upon first getting the book I went through half the book in one sitting!! No matter your base of understanding there is something to learn here. A reference book but yet very readable as it is well written and full of great illustrations and photgraphs. The good thing is that if you don't feel like reading page after page, some drawing will catch your fancy and the next thing you know you are reading about it. So whatever the mood there is something here for the reader at all times. The paper is of thick stock and the size is handy enough to put in your backpack to take anywhere. Since I am not a scholar and have a limited understanding of the subjects, much clarification was given to issues I knew about but didn't fully understand. ... So the book is full of information that clarifies and breaks down all aspects of ancient Mexico, even those that have somehow been lost in the shuffle of modern times. Arranged as any dictionary alphabetically, it is a valuable source of information for all interested in Meso-American Gods and symbols and their meanings. There is a brief introduction that gives an overview of the time periods covered and the cultures that is very concise and informative. This is followed by an index that has the subjects covered in an easy to find format if you are looking for a particular subject. The end includes a guide to sources and a bibliography for furhter study.  Especially recommended for students, artists or history buffs this is a book that compliments any library that features books about Mexico prior to the conquest. Truly a gift of the Gods, the ancient symbols are preserved and explained here in this compendium by way of the east coast to the Pacific rim. I'll learn much from this book for years to come.in an easy to find format if you are looking for a particular subject. The end includes a guide to sources and a bibliography for furhter study.  Especially recommended for students, artists or history buffs this is a book that compliments any library that features books about Mexico prior to the conquest. Truly a gift of the Gods, the ancient symbols are preserved and explained here in this compendium by way of the east coast to the Pacific rim. I'll learn much from this book for years to come.	2000-11-21
US	49709123	RCSF7WDIA62S9	0374132771	130483186	The Crystal Frontier: A Novel in Nine Stories	Books	4	16	17	N	N	Culture Clash	Carlos Fuentes is without doubt one of Mexico's most prolific writers. The fact that his novels are filled with social- political commentary makes him controversial. Some people like their novels without the authors views, others love it as they like the added &quot;realism&quot;. Fuentes makes no qualms about his views and his portrayl of Mexicans on both sides of the border and the huge differences in cultures which create conflicts. The concept of this book is interesting but falls a little short on substance. Nine chapters detailing different peoples lives on both sides of the border and how they are interelated. The loose interweaving of the  characters lives on both sides of the border are accurate and hence disturbing to some readers. The story centers around one powerful Mexican, Leonardo Barroso and various other people on both sides of the border who are loosely connected. The beauty of this book is in the authors insight into the vast differences between Mexico and the U.S. and how this plays out on his characters. Fuentes is a master of language and his imagery is magnificent. His use of language creates a world that takes on a new life as he transports the reader into his world. An example is one of his characters missing life in Mexico &quot; Not a single tile, not one adobe brick-only marble, cement, stone, plaster, and more wrought iron, gates behind gates, gates within gates, gates facing gates, a labyrinth of gates, and the inaudible buzz of garage doors that opened with a stench of old gasoline, involuntary urinated by the herds of Porsches, Mercedes, BMWs that reposed like mastodons within the caves of the garages&quot;. Fuentes is a master at drawing vivid paralels as he creates images of Woolworths contrasted with mercados, or his symbolism of the Vatican and Washinton DC or his tirade on American TV pop culture filled with references to Elvis and filled with such diverse topics as Pat Boone, Charles and Diana jewelry from the Home Shopping Channel, credit cards, CD's with greatest hits, and my favorite, diet milkshakes. For people who live along the border this book is a riot at times and at others reflective of a sad and tragic love story, the relationship between cultures in the US and Mexico. As a character in the book reveals on a tatoo on his lower lip, We Are Everywhere. An excellent book for all interested in what makes these two countries &quot;so far from God so close to heaven&quot;.nnel, credit cards, CD's with greatest hits, and my favorite, diet milkshakes. For people who live along the border this book is a riot at times and at others reflective of a sad and tragic love story, the relationship between cultures in the US and Mexico. As a character in the book reveals on a tatoo on his lower lip, We Are Everywhere. An excellent book for all interested in what makes these two countries &quot;so far from God so close to heaven&quot;.	2000-10-17
US	49709123	R13QDNS8LPN5BO	0805011951	793212958	Escalante: The Best Teacher in America (An Owl Book)	Books	4	38	41	N	N	Stand and Deliver Dedication	In a culture where if one is asked have you read such and such book and  the reply is &quot;no but I saw the movie&quot;, then I 'll reverse the  question. Did you see &quot;Stand and Deliver&quot;? Well this is the story  of the man the movie is about. In the movie, Edward James Olmos takes the  lead as Jaime Escalante, an unlikely hero who immigrated from Bolivia and  changed the lives of countless Chicano students in East LA. This is the  story of dedication, underpay and a determination by one man to change the  course of students views of themselves. A teacher with a vision beyond the  classroom. He wanted to change the perception of Chicanos and their role in  the education process, they could be capable of taking college prep math.  While teaching at Garfield High in the 80's he created quite an uproar  amongst his peers by making Chicanos believe in themselves, that they could  take AP Calculus and succeed. It would require hard work. A great  motivator, who used all his skills, he proved the naysayers wrong. This is  a great true story that is more detailed and probably more accurate than  the Hollywood version. The background information on the principal of  Garfield and various students is much richer than the movie version. This  is a feel good book that students,teachers and parents alike should enjoy  since they are all participants in the deucation process. A motivational  tool to be shared by all who believe in the power of determination. An  American success story for all.	2000-09-15
US	49709123	R20BPQJN9GQPTC	080506009X	469166363	Catch a Fire: The Life of Bob Marley	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Modern Mystic	The man, the myth, the legend, it's all here and some. I read this book  several years back and consider it one of my favorite biographies. The  author goes into great detail concerning the Honorable Robert Nesta Marley  life. He also does a superb job explaining the roots of reggae and all the  social and political ramifications surrounding Bob Marley's life. This is a  must read for any fan of Bob Marley. The man was much more than the music  and in order to understand the full picture an understanding of Jamaica and  Rastafarianism is essential. The book recounts all aspects of Jamaican life  and how the ambassador of reggae became a super star. A good companion book  to this is Songs of Freedom by Adrian Boot. Thanks to fine biographies like  this and the plethora of music left behind by Bob Marley it is easy to see  why he was so great then and now. His legacy continues to grow as each new  generation discovers the Hon. Robert Nesta Marley, the Lion lives on  forever!	2000-09-14
US	49709123	R1I49FD6VSEK7H	0060618760	306052013	Junipero Serra: The Illustrated Story of the Franciscan Founder of California's Missions	Books	5	11	11	N	N	California's Original Pioneer	Although Father Serra's legacy is shrouded in controversy, the tenacious  character of the man cannot be denied. In California elementary school  students are required to make reports on the Missions of California. A  better starting point might be a study of the man who is credited with  founding the mission system. The missions were essentially a series of  &quot;colonial&quot; churches within a reasonable traveing time for the  period. Fray Serra was truly a fascinating person who began his work to  spread Christianity in Mexico, becoming the President of the Baja Missions  under the Franciscan order. Many unknowwn facts are revealed in the  biography, the authors use an extensive bibliography including Father  Palou, his lifelong friend and confident who penned his biography over two  hundred years ago. The details of Fray Serra's life are abundant, painting  a picture of a man who was dedicated to Christianity first and foremost.  The suffering that he endured is remarkable and an inspiration in the  modern world of worldly distractions. The trials and tribulations of  establishing the system of missions is illustrated with word and vintage  photgraphs. An absouletly spellbinding bit of history that is relived with  accuracy thanks to the excellent research done by the authors. The life of  one of the founding fathers of California is a neccessary foundation for  understanding the development of California. The treatment and  rebeliousness of the the indigineous people is a study in culture clash.  The inevitable result that persists to this day in California has its roots  in the first encounters between the Europeans and the natives and their  beliefs. An excellent book full of primary sources, for teachers and  students alike.	2000-09-14
US	49709123	R3O773LSVTIECJ	0385486804	674569455	Into the Wild	Books	4	6	7	N	N	The Final Adventure	After reading a segment of the book initially in Outside magazine, I  couldn't wait to get the book, paperback, that is. Well I wasn't  dissappointed and I whipped through the book in record time. The allure of  the book is similar to the draw Chris had for Alaska. The unknown and the  adventure it brings can be intoxicating, even deadly. The story of this  young adventure idealist is a compelling straightforward account. Written  with the insight of a true life adventurer-journalist, Jon Krakauer does an  outstanding job recreating the mystery surrounding the life of Chris  McCandless, who gave up everything for adventure. Many want to do something  along these lines but few have the nerve to actually do it. The questions  abound throughout the book concerning, the why did he do this and of course  they are never answered. This is a book that you can be read very quickly,  quicker than the ill advised adventure Chris McCandless lived in Alaska. If  you like to travel and have a bit of wanderlust running through your veins,  read this book, but not while you are solo in the wilderness. The author  draws a compassionate picture of Chris and one can't help but feel for him.  I think the man did what he wanted to do and miscalculated, hence a fatal  mistake. Much like the parachutist who loves skydiving until the chute  doesn't open, Chris probably loved his adventure until the hunger pangs  finally let him rest in peace.	2000-09-14
US	49709123	R3PJIV6KQL7NY	0140244131	885326446	Bob Marley: Songs of Freedom	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Musical Prophet	Like so many other deceased musicians, there are way too many &quot;insider&quot; books about the person. This is the only authorized  book by the Bob Marley Foundation and it is a superb picture book. Filled  with an abundance of color and black and white photographs this book brings  the man to life. The pictures are rare as some are private family photos  that are being released for the first time. This is a book that you want  nearby so you can look at the photos periodically and remember the man as  you listen to his music. The introduction by his wife Rita Marley is  heartfelt and lays the foundation for intimate views of Bob Marley. His  passions, his friends, his children, and even his music is here for all  fans of Bob Marley. One of the cool features of this book is the format and  how the narrative is given using some of the titles of his albums as a  backdrop. Just a great book about a great man who passed this world much  too quickly but left his mark for all to listen to the whisperings of a  mystic. &quot;Bob will come again. Like Christ he shall come in a new  name&quot;-Rita Marley.	2000-09-14
US	49709123	RR0MMZ0L2TNW2	0811817741	528868022	Across Frontiers: Hispanic Crafts of New Mexico	Books	3	4	4	N	N	Too Much Not Enough	This is a book that is very enjoyable to look at and if something catches your fancy you can read about it. The problenm is that there is not enough  information written. Another problem is that there are too many topics  covered, none in detail. If you are casually interested in the arts and  crafts of New Mexico this book will suffice. This is a good starting point  to do further research. The photographs are magnificent tributes to the  artists work and give you some basic information but if you really want to  know more you'd better look elsewhere The collection and photographs  included in the text are numerous and very colorful and beautiful. If you  want a nice overview and to look at pretty pictures this book will do.  There is an adequate glossary and  bibliography but if you're really  interested in this subject you might try the Spanish Colonial Arts Society.	2000-09-07
US	49709123	RP98V0888M61Q	0356007634	143772275	Ancient Mexico (Living Architecture)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Cities of The Gods	This is one book in a seies that includes the architecture of such places  as China, Egypt, Islamic India and such styles as Gothic and Romanesque  architecture. The book describes the legacy of the pre-Columbian past in  modern Mexican architecture. The black and white photographs of the Aztec  and Mayan pyramids are throughout but also included are the lesser known  Zapotecs of Monte Alban and Mixtecs of Mitla, to name just a few. There are  aerial views, drawing plans of sites and spendid close ups of the pyramids.  The text is highly informative as it gives a history lesson as well. This  is a good book if you are interested in the pyramids as structures that  have withstood the test of time. Archeology buffs will enjoy this book as  all the major sites in Mexico are covered. The plates serve as good  material for any reconstruction of the pyramids for building models,  drawings or paintings. A good book to have in the pre-Columbian section of  your library on Mexico.	2000-09-07
US	49709123	R5FUEEAF0YWG5	0826311253	301478961	The Wood Carvers of Cordova, New Mexico: Social Dimensions of an Artistic "Revival"	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Folk Art and Culture	If you are interested in the arts of New Mexico, specifically wood  carving, than this is a book for your library. Orinally written in 1980,  this is a  study of the the revival of wood carving in New Mexico. The book  is scholarly but yet easy to understand for the layman who is interested in  wood carving. Although written  by an anthropologist, and in essence is a  case study of various families of wood carvers, the book is an easy read.  The cultural portraits of the artists, as written by the author, is  fascinating. The wood carvers covered are some of the best New Mexico has  produced including a large section on Jose Dolores Lopez and his family.  The Lopez family is detailed extensively, including a geneology table and  various works by the different generations of wood carvers. Also included  are Jose Mondragon, Patrocinio Barela, Jose Rafael Aragon and Luis Tapia,  just to name a few. There are color plates that show the artists work but  the majority of the plates are black and white. The book is a great  reference source as it even has illustrations detailing the cuts  neccesssary to achieve certain carvings. The carvings covered are bultos,  polychromed retablos, chip carving, niches, sculptures and figurines used  in altars and nativity scenes. The book also has information about the  marketing and patrons of the artists works at the Spanish Market and other  outlets like the Spanish Colonial Arts and Crafts Exhibition. Super  photographs and an easy enough text to read make this a handy reference  piece for anyone interested in wood carving.	2000-09-07
US	49709123	R1DL38HGC9H5SD	0140269444	284195738	News of a Kidnapping: From the Nobel Laureate, the International Bestseller That Takes Us into the Horrific World of the Medellin Drug Cartel (Penguin Great Books of the 20th Century)	Books	5	34	38	N	N	Insightful Reading	If one were not familiar with the kidnappings that have occurred in  Columbia, one might just believe this was a brilliant piece of fiction.  Unfortunately this is not the case and Marquez does a fantastic job of  recounting the terror that the hostages had to go through in their ordeal.  This a true life tale of one of the plagues of Latin America. It is all to  common to hear of prominent atheletes, entertainers and other high profile  individuals being held ransom to fullfill a political cause. This is a  story of Pablo Escobar, the notorious drug lord and how he conducted his  reign over Columbia. This is the story of the Medellin cartels attempt to  pressure the United Staates into not exradicting any of it's members.  The  portrayl of the drug lords and their lackeys is brilliant, showing the  human side of people who are inhumane. The captives are so real, as  portrayed by Marquez that one becomes very emotional over the conditions  they had to endure. This book details the kidnapping of various  journalists, ten in all, one by one. An easy enough book to read one will  finish this book quickly as the suspense is, to use a pun, captivating.  That Gabriel Garcia Marquez would write such a book is amazing considering  that he risks his life by doing so. True to his his journalist roots he did  it at the urging of the released captives suggestion. Marquez is to be  applauded for his effort and his bravery as well as he shed some  international light on a terrible malady of Latin America. After reading  this you will appreciate your freedom and and all the luxuries it affords.	2000-08-30
US	49709123	R1R1BTZE56INRY	0520211839	566211073	A New Time for Mexico	Books	4	20	22	N	N	Relevence Then and Now of History	Carlos Fuentes, along with Octavio Paz is considered to be one of the  literary giants of contemporary Mexico. Old enough to have lived through  the PRI's (Mexico's governing party)stronghold on Mexican politics, Fuentes  shares his insights and expounds on such diverse topics as the mythology of  Pre-Columbian Gods to modern Christianity, all the while tying everything  into an historical description of Mexico and it's ruling party. He touches  upon La Malinche and Cortes as the parents of modern Mexico. He discusses  NAFTA and the future of Mexico including President Zedillo's influence on  Mexico and it's international impact. The reading, at times can become a  bit dense and esoteric but for anyone interested in the politics of Mexico,  with an historical perspective, will find this essential reading. In order  to understand the present and future, a solid understanding of the past is  needed, according to Fuentes, as he covers all the major time periods of  Mexico's past. This book is especially crucial to understanding the  impending changes that may be brought about with the election of the  countries first non-PRI president in the countries existence. Fuentes  contends that the authoritarian government of modern Mexico is linked to  the Aztec administrative structures established centuries ago. His writing  style is spellbinding and you feel as though a professor is imparting some  of his knowledge. According to Fuentes, we must heed Gellner's warning from  his book Reason and Culture. &quot;We cannot escape a contingent ,  history-bound culture, and we caannot vindicate it either&quot;. Fuentes  has hopes for democracy in Mexico and just maybe with the demise of the  PRI, his dreams, and the Mexican peoples may be realized.	2000-08-30
US	49709123	RDKUXU2M1AISI	0684826836	930567264	A Handbook of Symbols in Christian Art	Books	4	15	15	N	N	Concise and Informative	As stated, this is a handbook, therefore the format is easy to read and  gives you the basic information. If something then strikes your fancy you  can then do further research based upon this excellent starting reference  point. If you have very little religious background this will help you  understand Christianity in Art. Even Christians will find the book  informative and full of things that they did not know. For example, did you  know that the number 1000 represents eternity? The handbook is layed out  alphabetically, beginning with angels and ending with zodiac, all for your  convenience. My only complaint is that the art depicted is small, in black  and white and therefore does not show the details of the pieces of art. A  good book for anyone interested in art, specifically Christian Art. The  explanations of the symbolism is very good, it tells you just enough.	2000-08-30
US	49709123	R3KTA727OH00A2	084232920X	499654908	Assassins (Left Behind, Book 6)	Books	4	12	17	N	N	Suspenseful Fiction?	I've read all but The Indwelling in this series and found this one to be entertaining but a little drawn out. Besides the continuing saga of good  vs. evil as portrayed by Buck, Rayford and other believers against  Carpathia and his henchmen, the book continues to move along in its  narrative of the end days. The specualtive interpretation, based on  Biblical Phrophecy is full of God's message all be it not so suttle at  times. If you've read the others in this series you probably will read this  book no matter what is said. If you're new I suggest you start with the  original to get a complete feel for Jenkin's and LaHaye's apacopalyptic  vision. If you just want to jump into the series, don't do it here as this  book is a bit drawn out. I found myself saying &quot;OK kill him  already&quot;! I thought there would be much more to this installment than  there was but nonetheless found it rewarding. For believers and  non-believers alike this is a fun book that will at least make you think  and hopefully be a better person. There are tons of reviews for this book  but I told myself I would review all in the series, so, peace be with you,  share the spirit.	2000-08-30
US	49709123	R1F74Z6OL55O6V	0811802507	481463245	Oaxacan Woodcarving: The Magic in the Trees	Books	5	9	10	N	N	A &quot;Wooderful&quot; Treasure	This is a wonderful little book with a wealth of information and pictures  that document the whimsical wood carvings of Oaxaca(pronounced WA-HA-ka),  Mexico.The folk art depicted are beautifully detailed figurines, lavishily  decorated hand painted carved wood. The book explains the entire process  and how the works are often family projects where all family members  participate in order to sustain the family. If you are a collector of folk  art this book is a good reference source as it tells you which names are  most collectible. One of the more interesting Oaxacan carvings are the  &quot;alebriges&quot; which are figurures that may have animal and human  traits but are created in such a fashion that it looks like it may be from  another world with its extra parts of anatomy and exaggerated form. The  three-dimensional carvings are delightful pieces of folk art. Anyone  interested in the folk art of Mexico, planing a trip to Oaxaca, teacher or  student involved in art would enjoy this book. Easy to read and  photographed to reproduce the intricate works that are so colorful this  book is a valuable source of information for all interested in these now  famous wood carvings from Oaxaca.	2000-08-19
US	49709123	RKV43RWF5SOKW	0807055018	654628039	The Broken Spears: The Aztec Account of the Conquest of Mexico	Books	5	42	48	N	N	Essential Reading when Studying the Conquest	This is an excellent primary source of information written fron the Aztecs viewpoint. Bernal Diaz's book is an excellent companion study to compare the different perspectives of both primary parties involved. The  illustrations and the narrative are very elementary, an easy read with  simple drawings to compliment the text. The viewpoint, which is the Aztecs  is interesting and different from what you might suppose. If you are  intersted in Pre-Columbian culture in Mexico this is a fundamental book  covering the Conquest of Mexico. For a balanced view read this along with  Bernal Diaz's book to get a complete picture from participants of that  fateful time in history when the Old World collided with the New World to  create a new culture. A must have book for anyone into Mexico and it's  roots.	2000-07-25
US	49709123	R3S7HR1SQ3H5I5	0842329161	264457002	Apollyon: The Destroyer Is Unleashed (Left Behind #5)	Books	4	4	6	N	N	Good Fiction?	This book continues the saga and by now the characters have become very soap opera-ish. If you've read the previous books in the series, part of the draw is to find out what has happened to those left behind. You won't  be dissappointed either as their are more twists and turns to this preachy  soap. The intrigue is there but something is lacking or maybe it is that  the formula has been streched too thin and this information could have been  condensed into less than five books. The suspense will still keep your  attention but it won't keep you riveted like before. The messaage permeates  the book and you cannot escape the inevitable question concerning your own  personal salvation. An easy read that entertains the mind and soul, for  believers mostly but fun reading for those who still walk the tightrope.	2000-07-21
US	49709123	R2L9LUXXZ6A24S	082631550X	3982654	Crafting Devotions: Tradition in Contemporary New Mexico Santos	Books	5	13	13	N	N	Divine Inspiration	If you are interested in wood carving and the tradition of the wood carvers in New Mexico this is a must have book. The secular and non-secular images displayed are excellent and inspiring works of art. The book is easy  to read and entertains in a quasi-sholarly way. The glimpses into the  various artists featured are interesting as they share insights into the  way of life of these Santeros. The various profiled artists are unique,  diverse, deceased or living and extremely talented. The section on  Patrocino Barela and his family is fascinating and worth the cost of the  book alone as it features some of his works which are extremely rare. This  is a book that you will enjoy reading but more than that you will love  looking at the works of art. Add this book to your art or religious section  of your personal library. Be warned, you may not shelve the book as you  will want to look at it over and over.	2000-07-12
US	49709123	R299FT7I64OQ9A	0842329250	316218934	Soul Harvest: The World Takes Sides (Left Behind No. 4)	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Good fiction?	If you are going to read #4 in the series any review you read will be of little benefit as by now you are hooked in and will read it anyway. If you're new to the series this is by far one of the more exciting books, in  a fantasy sort of way. Afterall good fiction should entertain and you  shouldn't question the credibility of a good story if you're into it. There  is lots of international intrigue that would make a good action type  thriller. Of course a good script that would embellish the efforts of  LaHaye and Jenkins would make it all the better. My main problem with the  series is that it is is written at a juvenile level. Maybe the intent was  to reach as many readers as possible or maybe there are just that many poor  readers but I do wish the content was a little more geared beyond the 8th  grade. The message as you know deals with the authors interpretation of the  Bible but the preaching is minimal in this one as the action takes over  much of the plot. A pretty easy read for believers and non-believers alike.	2000-07-12
US	49709123	RKANJUU6UNT56	0870812637	28050433	Moctezuma's Mexico: Visions of the Aztec World	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Superb Illustrations of Aztec Life	This is a splendid book detailing life in Mexico before the conquest by the Spaniards. Beginning with the inside covers the book  is rich in pictoral description. The endpapers are beautiful color reproductions of  Diego Rivera's &quot;The Great City of Tenochtitlan&quot;, a lavish tribute  mural of Aztec life that adorns the Palacio Nacional in Mexico City. The  color is magnificent throughout the book and includes many artifacts left  from the ancient Aztecs. The book also includes a great little glossary  that includes a pronunciation guide to Nahuatl terms. The glossary serves  as a fine introduction to the  Nahuatl Language and it's phonetics.  Although the authors and contributors are scholars, the book is easy to  read for the average person interested in archaeology and Pre-Columbian  life in Mexico. The color plates are some of the finest and include rare  glimpses into Codex's that are housed in museums. A magnificent book to use  as reference. The book is also a great source of information for further  research as it includes a selected bibliography. An excellent view of Aztec  life, it compliments any personal library. If you love the Art of  Pre-Columbian Mexico this book is also a source of inspiration.	2000-07-06
US	49709123	R24OBOL4PTNEMG	0943739160	883386151	Chicano Art: Resistance and Affirmation, 1965-1985	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Chicano Art	This an excellent book that captures the essence of the Chicano Art Movement during it's formative years. A massive effort was undertaken to produce this book with contributions from too many to mention but including  Ceasar Chavez, Martin Sheen, Edward James Olmos, various departments and  committees at UCLA, and most notably The Wright Art Gallery. Lavish  reproductions of original art work is displayed throughout the book. The  artists featured are some of the best the movement produced, including  David Avalos, Yolanda Lopez, Jose Montoya, Mario Torero, Ricardo Favela and  Judith Baca, just to name a few. There are many other artists featured,  these just happen to be some of my favorite from this book. The themes of  the works run the gamut from Zapata to cholos, Frida Kahlo to lowriders,  United Farmworkers to Chicano Gothic, McCarthyism to pachocos, murals,  oils, pencil and multi-media works. A fabulous collection of works that  represent the roots of the Chicano Art Movement. An excellent source book  for anyone interested in the art of the southwest in it's early years. The  various pieces of art are fully explained and given full analysis from a  historical perspective. Find this book and add it to your art section of  your personal library, the pictures alone are worth the price.	2000-06-28
US	49709123	R3ISBB4MOAO59A	0842329242	940457812	Nicolae: The Rise of Antichrist (Left Behind No. 3)	Books	5	80	87	N	N	The Evil One Takes Over	I've read all but &quot;The Indwelling&quot;, which I'll read this summer, so I've decided to review the series. If you're a voracious reader you could finish this book in a day, no matter your reading level it is an easy  read. You're likely to read it quickly because you'll want to find out what  is going to happen next in this apocalyptic vision of Earth's future. This  book is one of the best in the series. The action and suspense are  spellbinding, so it is very entertaining. The &quot;message&quot; and true  intent of the authors is throughout the book, you either believe it or not.  The book is entertainment, not a bible study course on the Book of  Revelations, so take it for what it is and enjoy the ride. The &quot;evil  one&quot; is portrayed magnificently, totally believeable and credible. The  world is his oyster and the way he manages to rise to power is slightly  predictable but interesting nonetheless. The &quot;heroes&quot; are by now  starting to become more dimensional as characters and the reader will be  able to identify with them as real people. Whether you agree or disagree  with the premise of this book, an interpretation of the Book of  Revelations, the book is still a very good piece of fiction that in fact  may be based on truth? Better than # 2 and right up there with the original  # 1. No matter you're opinion, you will be left thinking about how you live  your life and hopefully be a better person for it.	2000-06-28
US	49709123	R27X7WH8YNSSJX	096326611X	118594276	Celebrate Native America!: An Aztec Book of Days	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Essential Calendar Study	A simple but splendid book that explains the Aztec calendar. This book is rich with clear, colorful art that illustrates the Aztec Book of Days. The Aztec Days, The Thirteen Heavens and a Calendar of the Sixth Sun are all  explained in an easy to understand format. Simplified for the novice yet  revealing enough for the scholar to further explore their interests. If you  are in involved in education, either as a teacher or parent this book will  prove invaluable as a resource. This book is fantastic for any project that  involves the Aztec calendar. Students will be able to reproduce the  characters, as each part of the calendar is reproduced here in lavish  detail. My son used this as reference for a high school project recently  and the end result was prominently displayed for the duration of the school  year. An excellent book, this book explains and illustrates the Aztec  calendar like no other. Each and every section is illustrated and  explained. Anyone intersted in the Aztec calendar should have this for  reference. Anyone interested in the art of the Aztec calendar needs to have  this in their library. Find this book if you want to learn more or create  anything related to the Aztec calendar.	2000-06-26
US	49709123	RZDW6JJH9KIPR	0486231682	334728772	The Codex Nuttall (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	32	33	N	N	Book of Kings	This is an interesting reproduction of the original document that is now kept in the British Museum. Essentially it is a historical geneological representation of the Mixtec kings lineage from 838 A.D. to 1330 A.D. Most  of the information centers around the great military and political hero  8-Deer Tiger Claw. The Codex Nuttall is very difficult to understand and  very little explanation of each plate is given. On the flip side, the  pictures if studied carefully, are quite revealing and graphic in nature.  As Meso-American art it is a wonderful depiction of Mixtex kings and their  lives. The colors are true to the originals and rich with hues of red,  brown and green mostly. This is a good book for anyone intersted in  Meso-American art, either to reproduce or inspire to create something new  borrowed from something old. As an archeological artifact it is a superb  collection of drawings that inform as well as visually entertain. If you're  into Pre-Columbian life in Mexico or want to learn more about the ancient  civilizations that existed, this is a book for your collection.	2000-06-26
US	49709123	RQQ1RP7DHMW36	0842329218	726324360	Tribulation Force: The Continuing Drama of Those Left Behind (Left Behind No. 2)	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Not As Good As #1	A bit of a let down from the original Left Behind, this book is good but not excellent. The suspense from the first continues but the plot line is more predictable. The characters who were introduced are here again but are  pretty one dimensional and therefore not as intriguing. Don't get me wrong,  the characters are interesting and you do get drawn to them, it's just that  they are not complicated enough, like in real life. The plot thickens with  the unveiling of the &quot;evil one&quot;. The book serves three purposes  very well. It makes you think, first and foremost. Second, it makes you  think about you know who and his adversary and all they both represent.  Third, it entertains with a fictional story that purports to reveal the  truth. The authors do a good job on all fronts. You will be preached to in  a manner of speaking but not hit over the head with a sledge hammer. The  book will have you thinking and you may just come out a better person for  it.	2000-06-26
US	49709123	R2SVZUOSE7ISJB	0060911271	483913583	Frida: A Biography of Frida Kahlo	Books	5	29	30	N	N	The One and Only	This is probably the definitive biography of one of Mexico's greatest gifts to the art world, Frida Kahlo. If you want to know more about this Mexican icon, please read this book. The photographs are abundant and the  color reproductions of her works are numerous and spread throughout the  book. Full of little known tid bits of information, it is a fascinating  read. For example, her name was Frieda, but changes it to Frida as a  political protest. The insights into the lives of her, hubby, Diego Rivera,  and all their circle of friends is enthralling. The allure of Frida is a  now 21st century phenomena that does not seem to be losing steam. I  recently went to the Museum of Contemporay Art in La Jolla, Ca. to see an  exhibit that featured some of her most famous paintings. It was  unbelieveable the amount of goods generated to sell that are Frida related.  Her picture was everywhere in the gift shop, always for sale. I only wonder  what this wonderful spirit would have thought about how she is venerated  and idolized by so many. Back to the book, the writing style is one that  flows and allows the reader to follow without much trouble. The reference  material is abundant including many interviews, letters and quotes from  other books. Scholarly enough for academics but entertaining enough for the  casual reader.  It will hold your interest and leave you knowing Frida and  the pain and joy that was her life. The book is thick, but because of the  intriguing nature of her life you will probably finish it quickly. When you  approach the the last chapters of this book, you will not want it to end.  The inevitable end will come and a temporary void will have been created as  her death will leave you saddened. Her ghastly cremation will bring a tear  to your eye; it did mine and I'm a guy! As you get over it, you will  rejoice in the consolation of knowing that her art lives on. You may even  go out and buy a piece of Frida to adorn your home with, like me and so  many other fans of Frida have done. Frida has not died, her spirit lives on  for eternity.  She is always looking at me, with her joined eyebrows and  three monkeys. The look of a  revolutionary spirit who has left her art and  a wonderful biography by Hayden Herrera for all to enjoy.other fans of Frida have done. Frida has not died, her spirit lives on  for eternity.  She is always looking at me, with her joined eyebrows and  three monkeys. The look of a  revolutionary spirit who has left her art and  a wonderful biography by Hayden Herrera for all to enjoy.	2000-06-16
US	49709123	R188P7KX5DI0EJ	0156001306	111529312	Currents from the Dancing River: Contemporary Latino Fiction, Nonfiction, and Poetry	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The Diverse Latino Experience	This is a grand collection of writings by some of the best writers, who happen to be latino, in the United States today.These are the tales of an emerging group of people whose experiences are as diverse as the ethnic  groups they come from. There are Cubans, Puerto Ricans and Mexicanos, all  different , all Americans with a common thread, their Spanish heritage and  a new found country. The collection of essays, fiction, non-fiction,  excerts from novels and poetry are splendid echoes from the souls of  Americans. The cultural differences aside, the homogenous nature of these  offerings are in their portrayl of people who want to be recognized for  what they are, Americans, who just happen to have different experiences  from those in the dominant culture. These experiences give validity to the  lives of many who may feel disenfranchised just because they are different.  The words are so powerful, so funny, so sad, so real. This book is a  favorite of mine to share with students. I read from this book yearly at a  read in for middle school children and always get the class thinking, maybe  reflective, but always roaring with laughter in the end. The students  invariably ask me where I found the book and where could they get a copy.  Mine is worn out, like an old glove that fits perfectly after years of use,  it is still serviceable, full of dog eared pages but I continue to break it  out yearly for the students benefit. What is nice about this book is that  it can be read in sections, as the format of short stories lends itself to  frequent endings. This is a great collection of writings that will not  disapoint, in fact it will inspire you and make you greatful for what you  have and who you are. If you are interested in the experiences of your  latino friends and how they came to be who they are this book will provide  insights. Written by Americans, for all people to understand why we are all  different but still Americans.	2000-06-16
US	49709123	R3OIDIAN405VIP	1570362394	726950360	The Native Americans: An Illustrated History	Books	5	18	18	N	N	History in Pictures	A beautiful book that pleases the mind and eyes. Very authoritative and full of historical and anecdotal information relating to the Native Americans. Begins with pre-Columbus and continues through the ages to the  90's. A must read for anyone interested in Native american culture and  history. The photographs and illustrations are priceless and well worth the  price of the book. Add this to your history collection, younsters enjoy  browsing at the wonderful prints of paintings and illustrations. An easy  read whose pictures entertain and captivate the imagination.	2000-06-15
US	49709123	RA3BEY419219X	0345329015	927667897	Seven Arrows	Books	5	14	18	N	N	Visually Dazzling	I agree with the readers from California and Arizona and commend them on ther fine reviews. I would only like to add that the illustrations, photographs and art work is superb. The paintings by Karen Harris are  excellent. They compliment the text in such a way that the experience is  even more meaningful. The historical black and white photographs are  treasured reminders of a bygone era. The knowledge of the elders is  available for those who seek it, add this book to your Native American  collection.	2000-06-15
US	49709123	R2YTYFEPXZINV5	0517391805	652478003	The American Heritage Book of Indians	Books	5	11	12	N	N	&quot;America has much to learn&quot;	about the heritage of our American Indians&quot;- JFK. Thus begins this book that has an introduction by Pesident John F. Kennedy. In this book you will learn about the such diverse native cultures as the Inca, Toltecs,  Aztecs, Cherokee, Seminole and Eskimoe, just to name name a few of the  indigenous peoples explored. The illustrations, historical photographs and  art work is spledid and quite lavish. Very informative, short histories on  most of the major native cultures of the Americus. If you're into native  culture this is a good book to add to your libray.	2000-06-15
US	49709123	R2BY4ZE9FTXK0K	0870442333	312796676	The Mysterious Maya	Books	5	9	9	N	N	National Geographic Classic	Antone interested in Meso-American civilization will enjoy this delightful book. A National Geographic Society book that informs in magnificent color photographs, over 150 in all and specially commisioned paintings. The text  is not overly scholarly and is easy to read by the layman or amateaur  anthropologist. The text covers the Olmecs and culminates with the Maya's  history through modern times. The commisioned painting are truly works of  art and they bring the Maya to life. Great stuff for anyone intersted in  one of the least understood pre-columbian groups, the Maya.	2000-06-15
US	49709123	R2NZW2AGT8HA7T	015600061X	928687518	Essays on Mexican Art	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Convergence of Topics	I read this book recently upon  the death of Octavio Paz. The mans mind was incredible and he was able to elucidate on  such disparate themes as philosophy,religion and history. What is incredible is that he manages to  tie these diverse subjects into a major topic, Mexican Art. The European  influences on the major Mexican artists is indelible and Paz shows how one  cannot exist without it's predecessor. He takes shots at such Mexican icons  as  Diego Rivera and Frida Kahlo for their seemingly contradictory views.  This book is not easy reading and requires a base of knowledge prior to  reading. One area of interest is his first person accounts with famous  people. Paz does not pull any punches and is a straight shooter. The  insights he provides here are excellent. The expressions he provides are  eloquent and given with great detail. A trully brilliant thinker that  offers his thoughts for all to share and enjoy. This book makes you  question your knowledge and makes you take the leap into a new  understanding of what you thought you knew. Like all provacative writers  who influence, you come out the better, as a result of his insights.	2000-06-15
US	49709123	R1Y7RK3H5SCGX	1879373432	510048749	The Fall of the Aztec Empire	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Beautiful Illustrations	Although this is considered a history book, it could as easily be considered an art book. The book is divided  into two parts. The first part is written, the second is illustrated. The first part is essentially an  essay, as it goes through the conquest of Mexico in less than tirty pages.  The text is very easy to read and can be read by adolescents. The second  part is the true gem of this book as the illustrations are by Keith  Henderson,who illustrated the two-volume edition of &quot;The Conquest of  Mexico&quot; by Prescott. Henderson was so impressed with Prescott's  &quot;The Conquest Of Mexico&quot; that he created these pen and ink  drawings in 1922. The original prints have long been out of print but have  been revived here. The ilustrations are exceptional and  not to be missed  by any history buff or lover of art that deals with the Aztecs and their  conquest.	2000-06-14
US	49709123	R2S1Y6WM361RW8	0806121610	330039672	The Aztecs: People of the Sun (Civilization of the American Indian)	Books	5	12	12	N	N	The Aztec Pantheon Explained	If you're into pre-Columbian and Mexican history this is an excellent choice to add to your collection. Written by Alfonso Caso, who directed the findings at Monte Alban and was the former director of archeology in the  National Museum of Mexico, the man knows his history. The Aztecs and all  their rituals , including the Gods and calendar are explained in easy to  read language. The text is not overburdensome with highly specialiazed  jargon but is eloquent and to the point. This book is an easy read. The  illustrations are worth the price of the book alone. They are by Miguel  Covarrubias, one of Mexico's finest illustrators at the time, and he does a  fantastic job depicting the colorful Aztec world. An essential book for  anyone intersted in exploring the Aztecs.	2000-06-14
US	49709123	R1HGYEIE42LO1P	0486275698	835388142	The Codex Borgia: A Full-Color Restoration of the Ancient Mexican Manuscript (Dover Fine Art, History of Art)	Books	5	62	65	N	N	Pre-Columbian Mexican Rituals and Myths	An excellent source book for anyone looking for authentic reproductions of the original that is housed in the Vatican Libray. This is a reproduction of an ancient document from the Mixtecs, around 1400 AD, from the area  today known as Puebla or Oaxaxa. The project took seven years to complete  as they painstakingly reproduced the Codex with accuracy and authenticity.  The color plates are a delight to the eye as they depict kings, mythical  warriors and the Mixtec belief system. Each plate is explained, in great  detail, in the beginning of the book for your convevience. The colorful  plates are intricate and exact on thick high quality paper. This is great  stuff for an artist working in any medium that needs inspiration or just  wants to reproduce. A good book for history buffs too.	2000-06-14
US	49709123	R3FOGBA4Y9H0BJ	0816506655	302733323	Francisco Zuniga Sculptor: Conversations and Interpretations	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Cultural Roots Art Book	An excellent portrait of the great Mexican sculptor Zuniga. The first part of the book is a series of rare interviews published for the first time where he discusses society, culture, his life and art. In the second part  the author offers his analysis of the sculptors work. The book is filled  with  many tresures, such as unfinished pieces, prints of projects that  were destroyed and over 100 black and white photographs. His unique style  that captures the essence of Mexico's mestizo heritage is portrayed  throughout. An essential book for anyone interested in this masters works  who has influenced countless artists. An easy read that is visually  delightful as well.	2000-06-13
US	49709123	R2R0E9WVR6BJGP	0810906856	985986050	Art of the Huichol Indians	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Old Traditions Sacred Visions	This book gives great insight into the mysterious Huichol Indians of Mexico and their rituals. Although an art book, there are many color photographs, as well as black and white photos of the Huichol in their day  to day lives. Truly a fascinating study of a group of people living as they  have for hundreds of years. A cultural anthropology art book would be a  better descriction. One learns about the old tradions that still exist to  this day and the wonderful often peyote induced art that results. Pleasing  for the eyes as well as the mind, reads like a college text but still the  pictures and insights make it worthwhile.	2000-06-13
US	49709123	RRL0SP8KW4KX9	0877739420	172312194	J.G. POSADA: Popular Mexican Prints (Shambhala Redstone Editions)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	The Original Calavera	An excellent book that features most of the major cuts made by Posada. The prints include his works from cookbooks, fortune telling books, childrens books, novels, periodicals and newspapers. Noted for his biting commentary  his portrayal of popular Mexicaan culture in the form of a skeleton or  calavera has influenced maany artists including Rivera, Orozco and a new  generation of artists. An excellent source book for anyone interested in  the ommnipresent calavera in Mexican art.	2000-06-13
US	49709123	R138ENT1GHY7VL	0842329129	46316172	Left Behind: A Novel of the Earth's Last Days (Left Behind No. 1)	Books	5	7	12	N	N	Good Fiction?	Thiss is the one that will hook you into the series. I've read all but &quot;The Indwelling&quot;(just strarting) and they all make for interesting reading. This is one of the best in the series, maybe the best.  No need to preach here but the books do a pretty good job of it. 1215  reviews and counting, so pick em. It is a quick read so you can get through  it fast, it'll definitely have you thinking.	2000-06-13
US	49709123	RU8174RHZW6KF	080215042X	135320906	The Labyrinth of Solitude: The Other Mexico, Return to the Labyrinth of Solitude, Mexico and the United States, the Philanthropic Ogre	Books	5	67	76	N	N	Los Mexicanos Defined	I first read this book in the early 70's and enjoyed it immensely. Being od Mexican descent it gave me insight into who I am and why. I have read this book again recently, upon Paz's death, and found it still as  enlightening. The style of writng is beautiful, poetic , and full of  symbolism and metaphors. While working in education I highly recommended it  to my collegues to better understand the Mexican psyche. Anyone who works  in the public sector or deals with Mexicans on either side of the border  should read this book. It will help you understand the mind of the Mexican  and how it works. One of my all time favorite books that should be enjoyed  by all people interested in human behavior.	2000-06-12
US	49709123	R1H98CVHQWTSY	0811206238	104884679	Eagle or Sun?: Poems	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Past Present and Future Mexico	A superb collection of early writings from 1949-50, Paz explores Mexico from three fronts, past, present and future. Influenced by Surrealists his prose is vivid and colorful as he explores the relationship between  language and poet, reality and language and his vision of the past. His  exploration of the apocalytic future, as foretold by the Aztec calendar  stone is haunting. The world lost a great poet but his works live on for  future generations.	2000-06-12
US	49709123	R2SX9XU2JFGBFI	0811201503	412647918	Configurations: Poetry	Books	5	1	2	N	N	Tearing The Mask Away	A grand collection of poems written by the master technician of prose, Octavio Paz, in the late 50's and 60's. This was his first collection of writings released in the United States. The themes explored are typical Paz  but two works standout and are worth the price of the book alone. The first  is the epic &quot;Piedra Del Sol/Sun Stone&quot; where Paz explores the  Aztec stone with erotic prose that illuminates as well as illustrates. The  second is his reaction to the slaughter of demonstrating Mexican students  in 1968 entitled &quot;Ladera Este&quot; which he protested by resigning as  Ambassador to India. Excellent prose by Mexico's greatest poet.	2000-06-12
