US	49705922	R2PSE0FBY4O3GW	0425173755	126736904	Murder on the Orient Express (Hercule Poirot Mysteries)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	He's clever, that Belgian	Very enjoyable, totally impossible whodunnit with a rather unlikely ending.  But that does not matter.  Hercule Poirot gets stuck on a train ride and then uses his exceptional cunning to find out just who did murder the man in the next room.<br />The story is too far fetched, the reasoning so utterly incisive as to be unbelievable and yet its great because you turn the pages to find out what Poirot's thinking and not whether you were right.<br />Great stuff, totally silly.	2002-01-18
US	49705922	R18MD57NG9ELXC	0440235464	435881091	Lost Girls	Books	1	3	6	N	N	No No No!  This is not a good book!	But that is not to say there is nothing good about this book.  The epilogue was simply brilliant and unfortunately the story line got worse from then on.  I bought a book being told that I was going to be reading a courtroom thriller/drama with elements of the supernatural.  To a small extent this is true, however &quot;Lost Girls&quot; is far more about the main character's cocaine addiction than a supernatural tale.  Written in the first person but in an intensely irritating passive tense (&quot;I walk across the street.  Rain splashes on my face&quot; and so on) &quot;Lost Girls&quot; actually becomes very slow reading the more you go on.  Compared with the excellent  epilogue this is a let down indeed.<br />The rest of the time that Crane is not discussing whether to have &quot;one line of snow or two&quot;, we are treated to the other characters in the book.  Most are so stereotypically bland as to be of no interest at all. Thomas Tripp, the accused, is by far and away the most cardinal of character sinners as Pyper tries desperately to portray a horrific fiend of mental imbalance when the effect is somewhat nearer to a sad old man who has simply had enough. Then there is McConnell, the filibustering parent of one of the missing girls and Crane's associates, Pyper's caricatures rather than characterisation of one excessively camp, gay man and one excessively large, unpleasant and rude man.  I doubt very much if Pyper has met the like of either.<br />So in total we are talking about a book initially brilliant which overplods to a totally unsatisfactory ending which takes far, far too many pages to get to.  And that does not even touch on the disappointment of the central supernatural legend that comes straight out of the &quot;Blair Witch Project.&quot;<br />No.  My only advice is do not waste your money and your time.	2001-11-16
US	49705922	R32HYESAAPJ2G2	0060951974	771081045	Sharpe's Triumph: Richard Sharpe and the Battle of Assaye, September 1803 (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #2)	Books	2	5	11	N	N	Not your best, Mr. Cornwell	The second of Richard Sharpe's adventures  and, to be absolutely frank, a terribly disappointing one.  The normally excellent Bernard Cornwell has written a story that, whilst undeniably of the same stable as the other Sharpe novels, differs sufficiently from his normal route as to lessen the impact the story would and should have had.<BR>Instead of our intrepid hero going off on his own to be the saviour of the day and the scurge of all evil, Sharpe spends most of his time as right hand man to the then Sir Arthur Wellesley, later the Duke of Wellington.<br />This book is largely speaking a filler between the excellent Sharpe's Tiger and the hopefully excellent Sharpe's Fortress and provides a weak second installment of the India years trilogy.  Sharpe should have been in the middle of the battle of Assaye that this book depicts, and not way behind the lines watching with the commander of the British forces, making sure that his superior always has a horse.<br />Coupled with this, the awful Obadiah Hakeswill makes an unnecessary appearance as he tries to frame Sharpe for assaulting a British officer and the bad guy is overplayed with repeated use of the word \\"Monsewer\\" when describing his French second-in-command.  In fact, the main redeeming factor in this book is the interest that Cornwell raises in his ever-present Historical Note at the end which mentions the true story of this book's arch villain, Lieutenant William Dodd.  It is always these historical notes that provide Cornwell books with that little extra spice, of knowing exactly what did and did not happen, and bringing closer the reader to the action.<br />It is, however, with heavy heart that I have to say this particular Sharpe is unusual in its mediocrity.  A tale that may have merited being told, but perhaps not one that required an entire book;  at least, not one told in this way.	2001-10-30
US	49705922	R3IZAYETTSDFX2	1840182857	447872240	Essex Boys: A Terrifying Expose of the British Drugs Scene	Books	4	2	3	N	N	A bad business	This is not the sort of book I would normally read, but having been compelled by a relative, I turned the first pages of what turned out to be one hell of an eye opener.  Everyone in Britain knows the fate of Leah Betts, and a fair few know about the triple murder in the Range Rover in the middle of a snow bound lane.  Here Bernard O'Mahoney, doorman on the night of Leah's death and friend to the murdered men, tells the gritty reality of what actually went on in the couple of years leading up to the events that made front page news.<br />Although the subject matter itself is gripping enough, it is pleasing to note that the story itself flows and does not get bogged down in O'Mahoney's personal opinions or person.  The author has written what seems to be a fair fly on the wall account of the life and times, without ever taking any personal pride or glorification for his part in the drama.  Indeed it could be seen that by writing this book, he is somehow trying to justify the life that he lived when the opposite seems to be true. <br />The book almost reads as a warning to the public: this is what goes on in your towns and cities.  And from that point of view, it is very frightening.  I would have been to the clubs mentioned in the book, and would have been witness to the events that happened if I had lived in that area.  I did not because I came from a different part of the UK and one that, in my eyes, had a lot in common with the Basildon in this book.  I do not know if Britain is a safer place in lieu of the Leah Betts incident, but I do know that there is less in the papers and less on the news.  This can, one would hope, only be indication of the effect the terrible story told in this book has had on opinion in Britain.	2001-10-30
US	49705922	R3VHJQSSTWWS1O	0754053784	398415402	Set in Stone	Books	3	8	8	N	N	I really wish the ending was better.	Robert Goddard sets out to write a story that combines a sinister house, Cold War treason, human tragedy and an average, modern day family brought together by bereavement.  And for almost the whole of the book he juggles the different aspects brilliantly, merging the ingredients into a fascinating swirl of intrigue that propels the reader towards its climax at an unrelenting pace.  Throughout, the hairs on the back of my neck rose as mystery and the strange goings on are described in excellent detail.  The reader is very much in the dark throughout this book, Goddard loathe to explain any of the dark happenings, raising anticipation to almost unbearable level.<br />But like so many books, the last chapter or two provide explanations that simply are not up to the standard demanded after so much excellent build up.  <br />Goddard builds this book up on mystery only knock it down by the ill-suited reality.  All the suggestions that something paranormal is at work in Otherways are little more than smokescreen when the truth comes out.  So much in the conclusion does not sit right with the words that have gone before, and I was left feeling cheated by the author.<br />It is such a shame that this has happened to \\"Set in Stone\\".  The first three-quarters of the novel is amongst some of the best I have ever read.  The excitement level begins high and stays there until the first strands of truth are unravelled and the spell is broken.  <br />Goddard is clearly a superb writer, and it is very comforting to know that his other novels follow different lines.  I will read his other work because I have been told that this is one of the weaker efforts.  If this author can enthrall me as much as he did in this novel and then provide a suitable ending, I will have read a masterpiece.	2001-09-15
US	49705922	R1Q2YS4XLHCEN7	0060932309	23196018	Sharpe's Tiger (Richard Sharpe's Adventure Series #1)	Books	4	12	14	N	N	He has arrived	I have read the Warlord Chronicles and the first of the Grail Quest series and found both of them fantastic fast-paced fun.  Bernard Cornwell is absolutely brilliant at writing historical fiction that has both gripping story lines and breathtaking action.  He is a master at changing tone at a moment's notice, giving plenty of time for the odd piece of romance or comedy whilst never getting bogged down and deviating too much from the important bits.  <br />In Sharpe's Tiger, chronologically the first of the score of Sharpe novels, Cornwell has our hero a dashing, raw recruit of the 33rd regiment in India.  At  the island fortress of Seringapatam, the Tippoo, enemy of the British, is holed up plotting an alliance with the French to remove the British from his lands forever.  When a senior British officer is captured, Sharpe is given the task of saving him, as a way out of the huge number of lashes he has just been given as punishment for striking an officer.  The sentence is the result of the utterly odious Sergeant Obadiah Hakeswill's incessant victimisation of the soldiers beneath him - Sharpe being his least favourite.<br />And there the fun begins.  Firstly the infiltration of the fort, then the discovery of the captured officer and then the escape.  Except Sharpe cannot do anything the easy way.  In fact the beauty is that he seems to go out of his way to find the trickiest route, causing as much mayhem as he does it.    It is a credit to Cornwell that Sharpe never suspends belief for the sake of more amazing thrills.  Everything he allows Sharpe to do is possible and in some instances, probably  rather close to a re-enactment of some courageous derring-do of a real-life British soldier 200 years ago or so.  It is the adroitness of Cornwell's writing that he manages to carry this off with such aplomb.  If you like this sort of thing, then I think it safe to say there is no better than Mr. Bernard Cornwell.<br />And now onto Sharpe's Triumph (I am doing them in chronological order, you see, I believe that to be the best way.)	2001-08-16
US	49705922	R3LMVZIKE8OWK3	0446400513	510904084	One Corpse Too Many (Chronicles of Brother Cadfael)	Books	3	5	7	N	N	I will not change my score but...	I was a little hasty with my review of this particular Cadfael the first time I read it, and feel duty bound to give a better account this time.  I still maintain that there is not enough sleuthing for my money in this book, but what I did not appreciate last time was the very skilful manner in which Cadfael pits his wits against the sinister, and extremely intelligent, Hugh Beringar.    This book is far more interested in having three main plot lines as opposed to the usual whodunit mentality of the other Cadfaels that deal just with the one main line of enquiry to do with one murder.<br />I still believe I prefer the straight forward detective approach in Cadfael novels, but I think that Ellis Peters was concerned with writing vaguely the same story over and again and so attempted to branch out from the typical style of story one might expect for a crime novel.  I think she should be applauded for this, and although it in some cases this means a weaker end product, I do think it is beneficial to the Cadfael series as a whole.<br />Whatever the story in a Cadfael novel, we are as always treated to the exciting and enchanting world that Peters has decided to portray.  A glimpse of what life may truly have been like in the 12th century, or at least we can believe that some parts of the novel could at least be a little bit historically accurate.  <br />The fun is in accepting that you do not which parts are and so we can allow ourselves the pretence that it is, in fact, all true.<br />Nice	2001-08-16
US	49705922	R24BJZXBWOW30W	0380794772	708765675	In a Dry Season (Inspector Banks Novels)	Books	4	7	9	N	N	I am really surprised and impressed by this novel	I did not think the story would live up to the billing on the back page or, indeed, my own hopes once I had read the editorial on amazon.  I am so pleased that it did.  Robinson cooks up a feast of nostalgia, mystery and pshycology in a very unusual detective story.<br />Perhaps most impressive are the diary extracts that tell of life in a tiny Yorkshire village during the War.  The voice of the narrator we know is the echo of a million other British voices during those days.  Rationing, blackout, land armies and American servicemen all take their place in the reminiscing pages to paint a detailed picture of the life and times of the victim, Gloria.<br />Interspersed there is the police investigation and the trials and tribulations of Robinson's very readable hero, Banks.  Difficulties with the boss, ex-wife, son and colleague are juggled admirably by the author who moulds all the rich ingredients into one fast-paced, enjoyable read.  Refreshingly, he decides against falling into the ever present trap of saying too much or adding one twist too many, choosing instead to deliver a cameo of shocks in the epilogue.  Just when I thought I had finished, there was another couple of pages that caused the eyebrows to raise and the grey matter to think again at what I had just read.<br />I would like to read more of Banks books, but I am wary that the actual subject matter in this novel will far surpass any that appears in the other ten or so volumes.  One day I am sure I will have done the set, so to speak, but for now I am going to be content with having had the pleasure of reading this as a  brilliant one-off.	2001-07-16
US	49705922	R2Y5PU6UTCIP4F	0446400157	580002452	A Morbid Taste for Bones	Books	3	21	24	N	N	A shame I didn't read this one first	Having read one or two Cadfaels before, I decided it would be far better to try and read the 20 volumes in order, both to increase the sense of storyline and allow myself the feeling of accomplishment.<br />It's a pity that I had to undertake this long journey having read one or two stories previously, because they showed up weaknesses in this story that would otherwise not been noticed so readily.<br />The monks of Shrewsbury need a saint, because everyone else has one.  It sounds ridiculous that people, especially monks, would think like this, but it is wholly believable considering just how much the fear of God existed in Cadfael's day.  A visitation to one of the brothers and some generally strange antics from one of the younger ones, and the whole party ends up in the small Welsh village of Gwytherin.  Cadfael is Welsh and so there is an interpreter.  The language barrier is controlled well by Peters, and half trhe time we forget it exists - good storytelling. Anyway, the story meanders as the monks try to wrest the bones of the local Saint Winifred from the Welsh and needless to say they do not like it. Suddenly a murder, and Cadfael is onto it in a flash.  The murderer is unmasked and we all go home happy.  Or do we?<br />For those familiar with PG Wodehouse's Jeeves and Wooster, the ending in this mystery is rather like one of the cunning and succinct ways in which Jeeves invariably solves all Wooster's woes.  Whereas in Jeeves and Wooster we are looking at a comedy, with Cadfael , we have a serious affair.  The concise and overtly convenient manner in which Cadfael rounds things off is too much for reality.  There was another way to end this story, and one which did not stretch the bounds of belief.  But Peters has opted for the clean ending and the whole story suffers.<br />I know the Cadfaels get better, and this volume has not diminished my desire for more of the canny sleuthing monk.  I do recommend to anyone that they start at the beginning and so I recommend to anyone, have a stab at this.  If you like it, 19 more books sets you up for a while.	2001-07-02
US	49705922	R36TDII34P3CQR	0805057633	587795843	Once In A House On Fire: A Memoir	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Intense - Exceptional	Andrea Ashworth writes with a conciseness and beauty that I can only marvel at.  Talking about the emotive and heartbreaking subjects in this autobiography, she manages to horrify with a simple sentence or describe the feelings of childhood with sublime ease.<br />The story is of growing up in Manchester in the late 70's and early 80's.  Ashworth lost her father at a young age; the first of a series of events that lead to domestic violence spanning a decade.  We feel pain at the desperation that Ashworth's mother must have felt, anguish at the treatment of the children's futures and a constant sense of anger as we veer from disgust at the &quot;Dads&quot; as well as hatred for the mother that allows her children to be maltreated in these ways.<br />The domestic violence campaign in the UK at the moment would receive a welcome boost if this book was more widely known.  I constantly asked the question of why the mother stayed with such obviously useless, bullying and degenerate men, on more than one occassion having to put the book down to calm myself.<br />I found myself at times with little respect or feeling for the mother, as I could not understand how she could stand by whilst men, that were not the father of Andrea or her sister Lawrie, beat them, locked them away for days or ripped up prized possessions as a way of venting their cowardly anger on those truly defenceless.<br />I feel I am in a very good position to make this attack on the mother of Andrea Ashworth and her sisters.  I was part of a young one-parent family when my mother was widowed with two children at the age of 26 and I live in the same city as this book is set.  At no stage did she wallow in self-pity, allow anyone to lay a finger on me or my sister or watch any hope of either of us making something of ourselves go down the drain because someone else was jealous or ashamed of success not being their own.  Because of this, we have broken the shackles of one-parent families and are, like Andrea,striking out on our own having got to University.<br />To this end, the book is perversely warming that despite being against literally all the odds, Andrea made it.  We are not told if Lawrie and Sarah also escape the clutches, but we sincerely hope so; it would be such a crying shame if Lawrie did not fulfill her ambition to be a dancer.<br />In terms of the way this book is written, Ashworth shows an almost criminal ease in the way she describes everyday occurances.  With just a well chosen verb or colour, the writing takes on a poetic slant at great odds with the horrors it describes.  I found myself stopping to go back over certain words or phrases which were such a joy to read.<br />Unlike Ashworth, I struggle to come up with the correct words to describe this piece of work.  The reader is taken through the whole range of emotions in this primarily dark and distressing book.  No read has ever angered me as much as this or involved me as though I was actually a part of the story.  The common effect is having your cheer for the ascent of good in the book to be muted by the rise, once again, of the bad.  This book simply is brilliant	2001-06-26
US	49705922	R3IQN2EJPD9CR3	1558598723	791180824	The Journal of a Ghosthunter	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Really quite good.	It is not necessary to write much about this because there is a danger I may write more than all the text in the book.  Simon Marsden has put together a photographer's exhibition of a book and added small amounts of text that deal with the ghostly histories of some European countries. The photographs are magnificent and the stories related to them add brilliantly to the effect.  The book is an atmospheric journey through a lens, a little voice talking to you as you go. I would have given it the whole 5 stars but for the fact that Marsden tells on many occassions that he felt &quot;an evil in the room and had to get out&quot; but he does not explain that he is a medium or that the room was overpoweringly creepy.  His writing at such times is a bit convenient and thus annoying.  But don't let that stop you, this is a good addition to any ghostly collection	2001-06-07
US	49705922	R366TCFLAT6MK8	033037401X	220927886	Midwinter of the Spirit (A Merrily Watkins Mystery)	Books	2	6	10	N	N	Too many annoying characters for my liking	To be fair to this novel, it does hold interest right up until the end.  The mixture of history, mythology, and of course, exorcism was always going to be one that I found irresistable.  If you throw in a magnificent Cathedral that doubles up as a very spooky building, add a bit of gore and complete it with a truly horrific moment or two; the thought of the man in the hospital bed and his wife on the stool brought a genuine revulsion that I seldom get from books, then you truly have the potential for a brilliant novel.  <br />So why the low score?  Putting it simply, I found too many people in the cast that I wanted to kick really hard.  Top of the list is Merrily's ultra annoying daughter.  There are kids like her all over this country, but Rickman's depiction of her was too stereotypical.  She did not come across as a character in the story but as a symbol of today's youth society.  She had little true input and thus took away from the story.  As did &quot;Moon&quot;.  Spirituality in a book such as this is clearly warranted, but does she have to be called Moon?  It is so thoughtless of Rickman to reckon on the reader taking this name in their stride.  If there had been a dog in the story, he would have called it Lassie a horse and it would have been a Dobbin.  Moon's name annoyed me intensely.  <br />And then comes the ending.  Like a great many books in the thriller genre, &quot;Midwinter of the Spirit&quot; suffers from an extended ending.  There are three or four more suitable ways to end the novel, but Rickman decides to carry on a few pages too many and thus blunts any chance of a riveting ending.<br />This book has flashes of genius but suffers from moments of incrediblity and the whole effect is of a good book spoilt.  I read this book over a year ago, and the fact that I have not read another Rickman since, may go a long way to explaining my true feelings for this author's work.	2001-06-05
US	49705922	RON20G53E9LDF	0684853523	44310359	On Writing:  A Memoir of the Craft	Books	2	5	12	N	N	King should have done things differently	This book by Stephen King is part autobiography (good) and part writing masterclass (bad).  If he had written his autobiography in more detail we would have had an engrossing read.  As it is, King glosses over the horrors of alcoholism and hit and runs, giving us the very barest of bones about issues and incidents that shaped his interesting life.  He seems in a rush to get to the &quot;masterclass&quot; section of the book which is a great pity, as the bits of his life we do hear about are written in such a way that only King can.  Even when only briefly touching upon some incidents, he still manages to illicit revulsion and disgust from the smallest detail.  What did come across as really interesting, however, were the accounts of his early writing and the way in which he got his big break.  I felt there was far more information for the budding writer in these early parts than in the second half of the book, which was actually &quot;On Writing&quot;<br />King makes an attempt to explain to any budding writer what to write, what not to write and when to do it.  His advice on adverbs and tenses and how to plot (or not) in his case came across as unhelpful.  I accept that Stephen King may have told us what worked for him, but I do not believe many people can simply begin with an incident to write an entire book without plotting.  I feel that if he had to write a masterclass on the writing craft, he should have made it more textbook like and less personal.  I do not feel that too many people (of which surely all of them will never be as a good a writer as King himself) will have gained much help from this book.<br />It is my thought there there was two books to be written here and the autobiography in particular should have been a really good read.  As it is, King has rushed out a book that comes across as ill thought out and clumsy.	2001-06-05
US	49705922	R2Z26KNKZ6S9WS	038529929X	313045692	Hannibal: A Novel	Books	3	1	2	N	N	I Ain't 'Avin' You!	&quot;Red Dragon&quot; and &quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; were both excellent books, and both good films.  They are therefore going to be a hard act to follow and, for the screaming millions that have waited so long for this book, nothing less than a brilliant read was going to do.<br />Thomas Harris has made a game attempt at this masterpiece, and he is to be commended on not sticking to formula.  The early part of this novel shows Harris' ability to write fast paced and detailed narrative, a quality that is observed in all his books.  And the horror moments are, generally speaking, frankly stated and brutal - just the way Lecter fans like it.<br />So where did this book go wrong?  Firstly, the formula has been altered.  I know I commended Harris for this before, but the other Lecter novels are so utterly brilliant that a change in formula was always likely to be a step backwards rather than a step forward.  What made &quot;Dragon&quot; and &quot;Silence&quot; was the psychology of the characters, and the chase to capture the killer in each book.  In &quot;Hannibal&quot;, we have several mini chases and no psychology to speak of.  Mason Verger is the closest we get to exploring the mind and he is an example of where the book falls down again.  <br />Harris, in his acknowledgements, thanks a couple of eminent psychologists for their information on the &quot;memory palace&quot;.  This is the device that Lecter uses to remember everything he has ever done.  He walks the corridors of his own mind and enters rooms that act out memories.  This is how he can call up information, however small and trivial, at a moment's notice from something that happened literally decades ago.  I can accept phenomenal memories, but I don't think Harris' descriptions of the memory palace add anything at all to the book.  Instead, I get the feeling that they have simply been lifted from some textbook, or a conversation with an eminent professor somewhere.<br />Throughout &quot;Hannibal&quot; we are faced with situations that just do not ring true.  Previously, Hannibal Lecter was an incredibly intelligent man that was approaching a superhuman status through his strength, crimes and intensity.  In &quot;Hannibal&quot;, Harris has allowed him to become superhuman and thus destroy the reality that &quot;Dragon&quot; and &quot;Silence&quot; approached but never crossed.  Nothing displays this more than the ludicrous dinner that Lecter holds at the very end of the book.  A scene so syrupy, so farcical and so ridiculous that no reader is going to be taken in by it.<br />If &quot;Hannibal&quot; was a one-off book and not the climax to a trilogy, it would have fared a little better.  As it is, it had to live upto the very high standards set by its predecessors and could not do so.  &quot;Dragon&quot; and &quot;Silence&quot; show that Harris' ability to write a very good book was not a singular occurrance.  &quot;Hannibal&quot; shows that Harris simply had an off 11 years or so.	2001-05-29
US	49705922	R2KEEQL522DMCU	0446674362	282618499	The Black Dahlia	Books	2	8	14	N	N	Disappointing	I watched James Ellroy in a TV documentary and listened to his, his friend's and policemen's thoughts about the unsolved Black Dahlia murder of 1947 LA.  I also listened to Ellroy as he talked us through his style of writing, his research and his motives.  All the talk had me out buying a copy of this book, &quot;The Black Dahlia&quot;, the very next day.<br />I was expecting the gruesome truths of the original story to be adhered to exactly and prepard myself for some 40's cop style interrogation with some extremely unpleasant characters.  I was immediately disappointed when Ellroy chose to alter what is known about the Black Dahlia, Elizabeth Short, with his own ideas leading to a direct contradiction, the sort of which Ellroy had just told me he did not employ.<br />It was going to be an uphill battle for the book from then on.  The beauty of an Ellroy book is that you are not supposed to be able to tell fact from fiction, but here it was staring me straight in the face.  I tried to get over it and finished the book.  Expecting to be sickened by the killer when they were finally unmasked, I only felt relief.  Ellroy pushed the boundaries of realism and credibility and the incessant unmasking of persons who were not the killer began to rankle.  It was particularly stretching it a bit when the hero, Bucky Bleichert, starts to fantasise about sex with the Black Dahlia.  No-one that saw the body would ever behave like that and still carry on a normal life and job.  Obsession I can do, but blatant shock tactics that would never happen I will not.<br />It all had the feel that Ellroy had so much to say but did not want to write an epic.  So he wrote a mid-sized novel, but with too much in it.  Therefore the trips to Mexico and the East Coast of America come across unreal, rushed and wholly unconvincing.  The book was difficult to follow as it was with the 1940's slang (which is fair enough) without being forced to concentrate through the jet-setting, car-hopping trendthat Ellroy begins to follow.<br />I feel as though Ellroy tried to address so many issues in this novel that they all ended up jumbled and confused.  I cannot fault the idea behind the story, but I can fault the execution because it is bad.<br />I am going to read some more of Ellroy's work, because this is a relatively early work, and I am hoping he found his feet a little better later on.	2001-05-10
US	49705922	R64WSQHMT8MBI	0749324910	81717643	The Devil Rides Out	Books	1	15	36	N	N	Boring and very, very dated.	I simply cannot agree with any of the other reviewers where this book is concerned.  There are a great many novels that also double up as text books on the subject material (Neville Shute's &quot;No Highway&quot; was a prime example of a story about metal fatigue.) Dennis Wheatley's &quot;The Devil Rides Out&quot; is both a story about the battle against evil and a handbook illustrating almost every kind of black magic and witchcraft across its pages.  This may be no bad thing except that the manner in which we are told of the dark science is usually insipid, incredible and wholly unnecessary.  The characters take turns in giving large amounts of evidence about what black magic is - complete with case studies.  The effect is not one of a dialogue between two people, but of a public information announcement where two people take turns to tell you a monologue.<br />Throughout Wheatley uses this method to explain to us what is going on or what may happen, and it simply comes out as overkill.  The author could have cut the explaining text by 90% and replaced it with greater story telling and you would have had a far more interesting read.<br />The trouble that Wheatley obviously had was that the characters probably talked in exactly the way the man in the street talked at the time.  Reading just a few pages and you instantly feel transported back to Britain in the 1930's.  It is however a great pity for the author and the reader that the 1930's Britain depicted in this story was a rather dull and vacuous place.<br />I am sorry to say that I found this book tedious in the extreme and really struggled to finish it.  Difficult to read and very much like an incomprehensible text book, &quot;The Devil Rides Out&quot; has dated far more than many books written before it. I feel that the prolific Dennis Wheatley was of his own time, and no other.	2001-05-01
US	49705922	R12N90676LKUTJ	0312924585	247672694	The Silence of the Lambs (Hannibal Lecter)	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Has the edge over Red Dragon - just.	&quot;Silence of the Lambs&quot; is the second book of the Hannibal trilogy, and the best. Although &quot;Red Dragon&quot; is a magnificent story, the emphasis is more on the psychology of the book's killer, Francis Dolarhyde, than in &quot;Silence&quot; where we have a shift of emphasis towards the psychology of the FBI trainee, Clarice Starling.<br />What this allows is the close quarter psychiatry that Lector employs on Starling, and very unnerving stuff it is too.  The relationship between the two is the most important part of the book, the actual story of Buffalo Bill is secondary.  Harris weaves his plot at such a pace and with such intelligence that the reader, like Starling actually feels some kind bond with Lecter even though he holds all the cards and is intellectually running rings around her.  A ludicrous thought when we consider the man's crimes, but it is there none the less.<br />It is also good to see that the film actually follows the plot of the book closely, and is all the better for it.  One advantage that the book has over the novel, however, is the brilliant depiction of character that Harris can provide.  The insect expert is far more repulsive in the book than the film where he comes across as just lonely.<br />&quot;Silence&quot; also overcomes that rather big barrier that accounts for the failings of so many other trilogies; namely that the second book is just a bridge between the stronger first and third novels.  Rather unusually &quot;Silence&quot;, as the second of three, is actually the best.  It is marginally better than &quot;Red Dragon&quot;, which I also rate very highly, and is a lot better than the disappointing &quot;Hannibal&quot;.<br />&quot;Silence&quot; should be read regardless of whether you have seen the film or not.  If you have seen the film, you know what happens, but Harris' storytelling is a joy to behold.	2001-03-16
US	49705922	R3LILDRH3GUSWR	0753503603	260941926	Royal Babylon: The Alarming History of European Royalty	Books	3	12	15	N	N	More inbred nutters than you can shake a banjo at.	The bumf on the back cover promises to amaze me with the antics of European Royalty over the last 2 or 3 centuries.  And it did not lie.<br />The tales of debauchery and terror that find their way onto these pages are really out of this world.  Perhaps Royalty does have &quot;Divine Right&quot; because these people had something that the rest of us, fortunately, do not.<br />The emphasis is on sex.  All royals seem to love it, spending most of the rest of their time wondering which courtier should be next.  On many occassions we have strikingly unattractive females being lusted after by Kings and Princes, or instances of a King performing with his latest while the unfortunate husband has to look on helpless.<br />Then we have the many many instances of madness.  It is not just King George that had marbles rolling around in his head.  If they are not drunk, they are having sex.  If they are not having sex, they are knighting trees or fighting with curtains.  Nuttier than a chipmunk's cheek, the Royals of Europe provide many instances of laugh out loud lunacy.<br />Karl Shaw has been given a veritable feast of information on which to write this book and he has done it well.  Writing in a rather sparse tone, he hits the reader with tale after tale in rapid fire succession, never dwelling on any one particular story for long.<br />The problem with it, however, is the fact that so many of the Royals featured did much the same as another Royal in a different country in a different century.  Shaw rightly alludes to the blatant and dangerous inbreeding, but comes up with a situatuation where it seems as though the reader has already been there.  I struggled with this, because the novelty of some of the antics wore off during the 200 odd pages.  The book finds itself somewhere between novel and work of reference, but does not work as either.  I frequently found myself wishing there was an index at the back.  Both so that I could get a better idea of which Royal interlinks with which,  and because I know in future that I am going to hear of something a Royal did, and I am going to want to see if its in this book.<br />Overall an excess of material, but I cannot gripe at a book that gives me so many amusing anecdotes and truly laugh oud loud funnies.	2001-03-13
US	49705922	R39NKVA9JXDD4L	0440206154	247672694	Red Dragon	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Where it all began	I read this having seen &quot;The Silence of the Lambs&quot; on film, but not having read the book.  In this way, &quot;Red Dragon&quot; came across a bit prototypal.  It was not until I read &quot;Silence&quot; that I actually realised just how good and, more to the point, important to the Hannibal series that this first novel is.<br />Instead of Clarice Starling, we have Will Graham. Instead of Buffalo Bill, we have the Red Dragon.  Already in his cell we have Hannibal Lecter.  Although similar, almost formulaic books, the commonplace of different serial killers makes the idea work without the reader feeling as though they are going over the same ground.<br />Red Dragon spends a great deal of time getting inside the head of the bad guy.  And it is a nasty place to be.  Harris' strength lies in his brilliant portrayal of psycological events.  To the point that the reader ends up almost sympathising with the killer.  Marrying this with some well chosen moments of intense violence creates an encapsulating world that enthralls as we watch Graham closing in on the identification of the killer.  <br />Although not as exciting, the sub-plot of the relationship between Graham and Lecter is complex and extremely clever.  We have a situation where the hunter (Graham) is being hunted by another (Lecter).  Needless to say, Lecter's manipulation of the FBI man is nothing short of brilliant.  Harris gives Lecter the power of fear, a genuine ability to unnerve with a small action or a whispered word.  The hairs on the back of your neck regularly stand up.<br />The first of the Hannibal Trilogy is an excellent novel in its own right.  If you read it oblivious to the films etc you would feel as though you had made a real find.  Hannibal's success, however, means anyone reading this will probably reduce it to curiosity and comparison	2001-02-22
US	49705922	RFAP6KZPV1O57	0553328255	390250393	The Complete Sherlock Holmes (2 Volumes)	Books	5	5	6	N	N	There will never be a better detective	Sherlock Holmes.  To be fair, he does not need a review.  We all know what he does and how he does it.  We all know The Hound of the Baskervilles, Dr. Watson, Mrs Hudson, Professor Moriarty and 221b Baker Street.<br />Arthur Conan Doyle has laid down a being so perfect at his craft that no-one can ever better it.  Many will moan at the unrealistic side of Holmes' cases or the fantastically ridiculous nature of many of the crimes, but that does not take away from the genius of Holmes.  It is like saying that James Bond is not the best spy.  Of course he is, the scrapes he finds himself in do not detract from his achievements.<br />Why are the stories so good?  It is down to the facts that you know exactly what Holmes has heard and you know that he has the answer, but you also know that you will never be exactly right in your deductions.  You may have an idea as to the guilty, but you cannot say hand on heart that you are right and why you are right.  If you do not believe me, read a couple of the short ones.<br />This complete collection of the Holmes stories brings together the longer stories and the full length novel that is &quot;Hound of the Baskervilles&quot; with the numerous number of shorter stories that are completed in about 30 minutes.  They provide an excellent curio to read before sleep and a serious challenge if you attempt to dissect the evidence and beat Holmes at his own game.  I always like to chance my arm as to the villain, but, apart from a few good efforts, I tend to be way off.  The enjoyment then comes from having Holmes explain it to you.  A simple formula, really, but one which Conan Doyle uses often and refreshingly well.<br />The beauty is that you know what you are getting with Holmes and the final solution to each problem seldom disappoints.  The stories also provide an insight to the times; Holmes' use of cocaine, the acceptable opinions of the day and the people of London in Queen Victoria's time.<br />This book is simply unbeatable.	2001-02-15
US	49705922	RYU2TMS7MMOGI	0060196149	147649782	John Major: The Autobiography	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Crikey.  This is a long book.	At over 700 very indepth pages, John Major goes on a bit.  But to be fair to the man, this book is characterised by a fast-paced and detailed narrative.  The subject and the effect on British people living through his policies makes it absolutley riveting reading.  <br />As with every autobiography we have the &quot;Where it all began&quot; section.  These sections are usually dull,  but Major's recollections of his youth are refreshingly different for a politician and extremely unusual for a future Conservative Prime Minister of Britain.<br />With a lively narrative he goes from schooling to adulthood to Premiership with admirable rapidity uncharacteristic in the world of politics.  And with remarkable recall of detail he carries on in a similar fashion throughout the rest of the book. What comes from the pages of this book is that the the man is too nice.  He provides an idea of what British politics is like and leaves the reader wondering what he was doing there in such a ruthless, back-stabbing environment.<br />He shows how his best intentions were consistently undermined by the Tory rebel whilst simultaneously trying to keep at bay an increasingly ridiculous Labour Party and making sure that mainland Europe were happy with the UK's involvement.  It sounds a bit tricky and yet he still finds time for his cricket. Throughout this work we hear of Major's achievements as well as his humbling opinions of the times he and his cabinet got it wrong.  A breath of fresh air, certainly.  Also perhaps unusual in a political autobiography, is that Major refrains from what must be a very tempting practice; namely to bang on about the failings of his &quot;colleagues&quot; and political foes.  With a simple ease, Major tells us why someone's policy or behaviour are wrong without resorting to name calling and jingoism as many others would. I find it hard to believe that Major has any enemies at all in the Houses of Parliament now that he has returned to the backbenches.  <br/>His retreat from front line politics and the public eye has been managed with considerable composure.  This book further indicates the fact that John Major is a &quot;bloody nice bloke&quot;.<br />I am onto Paddy Ashdown's next.  I wonder if I will like that as much...	2001-02-01
US	49705922	R35QDAUNJUZHVF	0375410848	96071634	True History of the Kelly Gang	Books	3	8	23	N	N	A Unique Read	There are too many faults with this book for it to be anything more than a curio. I knew little of Ned Kelly before I bought the book and feel as though I know little more due to this account. What is really necessary in this narrative is some form of historical note that gives the other side of the story so that a reader can weigh up in their own mind just how realistic this book is.  Instead we have the unpunctuated thoughts of a man portrayed as caring, passionate, impulsive and not a little deluded. Carey has dispensed with correct English using the resulting narrative as an example of exactly how Kelly would speak. This is interesting, a nice touch, but ultimately annoying as the reader struggles to understand who is saying what and when. It makes the reading harder and less flowing than it might have been leading to concentration on the words rather than the meaning. Carey's decision to not have Kelly swearing in a manuscript to his daughter is both rather witty, and refreshing as well as realistic. It was a side of the novel that I never bored of.  But Carey seems to slightly go off kilter at times, either forgetting his character, or more commonly, trying a little too obviously to make political comment through the words of Kelly. The time that Kelly first &quot;lies&quot; with Mary Hearn - the intended recipient's mother - is dummed down, Kelly advising his daughter to skip the next few lines, before going on in some detail as to the love. I find it hard to believe anyone would include such a passage in a script written specifically for their daughter. This sort of questionable passage often appears in the book. As do the frequent references to the rule of the British over the Irish, whether it be in Ireland or Australia. I do not doubt that the very nature of Australia - a land where convicts were deported - gives ground for the abuse of power, but I will not have it that it is as simple as the English once again being the root of all evil. The Easter uprising was over 30 years away, but Carey has Kelly already militant enough to wage war on the authorities.  And to cap it all, I always had the thought at the back of my mind as to just how Kelly managed to compose this hefty manuscript whilst on the run from the law and how Carey would explain its sudden appearance in 2000. I know this is a very picky point, but it was one that, due to the nature of the script, had to be explained. Carey's attempt is poor. Having spent 3 years writing his memoirs up, Kelly passes them to a virtual stranger just before his final battle. Artistic licence is a necessary evil, but it must pass scrutiny and this account of events does not.  Another complaint is the pace of the book which is not at all smooth, possibly because the author has tried to reciprocate the circumstances of the &quot;memoir's&quot; writing in the first place with Kelly being on the run. If this is the case then Carey has managed well. Unfortunately, however, the overall effect that it is just rushed at the end, whilst being rather plodding throughout the previous chapters, prevails. I finished the book thinking Carey had run out of things to say at a time when I wanted more, and specifically wanted a historical note to complete the novel.  &quot;True History of the Kelly Gang&quot; does, however, possess some good points. Like the classic bad guy throughout history, Kelly enjoyed (by and large) the support and popularity of the rest of the community against the tyrannical authorities. Robin Hood even gets a mention late on. Some of the scenes are rather interesting, the boxing match with Wild Wright is very evocative. Other characters involved are suitably odious such as two-faced policemen and the scoundrel element in the poor communities that Carey admits existed.  I would like to be able to agree with the other reviewers that place this book in the region of greatness, but I cannot. Obviously I would have rather read a book that I enjoyed greatly rather than one that I consider frustrating. I think Carey has undertaken a very difficult task and has reached a level of competence that he can be congratulated on. It is unfortunate that the subject matter has been tainted by just a few errors.	2001-01-22
US	49705922	RY2Q0LEHPL4I4	0747223416	973347828	Crossing: The Extraordinary Story of the First Man to Swim the English Channel	Books	3	2	4	N	N	A Noble Attempt	Captain Matthew Webb was the first person to swim the English Channel in 1875.  This book tells us the story of that amazing feat and gives a little insight into both the man and the society in which he lived.  <br />It has proved difficult for the author to give the full account of Captain Webb due to the scarce amount of material on him both before and after his most famous swim.  Frequently, Watson uses a combination of hearsay contemporary biography by those who knew, well or otherwise, Captain Webb and her own gut instinct when recreating certain scenes and issues central to the story.  I think she has made an admirable if undistinguished attempt at this.  The pity of the whole book is that it is ill-proportioned.  Watson chooses (obviously rightly) to spend a good deal of time on the Channel swim but is rather too hasty in describing what became of the man afterwards.  It appears from this narrative that Webb was a virtual recluse during the year after his swim (and at the height of his fame).  The next we hear of the man is his sudden dive into obscurity and the many ill advised attempts at recreating his fame with more outlandish and obscure endurance swim records and races.  These are equally divided between his time in America as well as Britain.  The years after  Webb's swim are glossed over rather quickly, losing the opportunity to develop the character of Webb as well as the times in which it all happened.  I do not attribute this failing to the author particularly as there does seem to be a dearth of information pertaining to the man.  But I do still think more could have been made of those years, and similarly the rather rushed manner in which his death is portrayed with little serious effort to understand what was going on in the mind of the man, to provide a more detailed study.<br />I also found it infuriating the way in which the author described certain events with little or no dynamism through choice of word or  phrase.  The prime example beinghow the band \\"play \\"See the Conquering Hero Comes\\" during his fame but that it is merely \\"strained\\"  when performed during his fall from the public eye.  On top of this, we have to put up with the author's almost schoolgirl admiration for Webb rather like the reaction of today's teen to today's teen band.  I can fully appreciated the amazing achievement of the man without having him placed on a pedestal as the idol that Kathy Watson portrays him as.<br />In my opinion it is very fortunate that the subject is of such interest on its own that no amount of poor writing can spoil it.  What Captain Webb did all those years ago, both for swimming and for himself, stand alone as remarkable.  This book should be read as an education of man's stamina and resolve as well as an example of  how easy it is to fall from grace.	2001-01-10
US	49705922	R322XLVMNBWWJW	0582186609	336224731	Devil in the Fog (Pleasure in Reading)	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Okay - ish	I had high hopes for this book because I remember reading \\"Smith\\" in my early years and thoroughly enjoyed it.  I was not expecting to be enthralled in the same way that I was by Garfield's other effort, but I did expect to read a story that evoked the Victorian period with a plot strong enough to cross the child - adult divide.  Unfortunately, \\"Devil - in - the - Fog\\" does not quite reach the necessary heights. The story centres around the hero George who, as a 13 - year - old, finds himself swapping families.  As the story progresses, sinister characters and strange behaviour begin to seep out of cracks and crawl from under stones leading to the big twist at the conclusion. For most, this novel will be different and rather exciting.  For me, the excellent turn of phrase, imagery and humour employed by the author are in unfortunate contrast with the slightly convenient, occasionally confusing and ultimately disappointing plot. I do recommend this book, but I do warn the reader that it may come across a little thin in parts.	2001-01-05
US	49705922	R19OWQ4Z5FV709	0922915482	953716442	Lords of Chaos: The Bloody Rise of the Satanic Metal Underground	Books	1	9	39	N	N	Grow up	As someone that does not spend their time pretending / wishing  to be dead, as someone that does use their own mind and as someone that can view Black Metal subjectively, I feel as though I have a far more realistic opinion of this book than the minions of death that have reviewed before.<br />This book records and claims to try to find out why some people have become so deranged that they have destroyed their own lives and the lives of others.  It gives instances of murder that are either very disturbing or downright laughable.  Killing a stranger to see what it is like is very frightening, killing your partner because you think it will add to your credibility in the scene is ludicrous.  I think it fair to say that if Varg knew his fate before killing Euronymous, he would not have gone through with it.  I doubt he feels so clever now.<br />Church burning and grave desecration are also absolute folly.  It costs money that otherwise would go to those that need it: to all out there that have taken part in such activity, you are not very bright.And those of you that believe the influence of long obselete Norse Gods is still in the air now, please take yourselves off to the nearest asylum before you too cause irreparable damage to someone else's life.  <br />Now that the rant is over.  The initial fault with this book is that its attempt to find out why these acts of darkness have recently occurred is simply a thinly veiled excuse to promote the thoughts of these great losers in life.   The second fault is that the subject matter itself is rather drawn out.  The case of the Tunbridge Wells Satanist needs no more than two or three lines to show that the movement has reached the shores of Britain.  Instead we get an overblown account of how locals are outraged (they wouldn't be pleased now, would they?) at the knocking over of some gravestones by a bored teenager. And the third fault is the author's failure to really try to find the root cause of this stupidity.  Moynihanshould have spent his time looking at the reasons why kids all over the world rebel rather than suggesting that, for some, the actions portrayed were  a result of the beliefs of the black metallist movement.<br />If we look beyond these major failings, we are actually transported into a world that, fortunately, very few will ever have to experience.  It is of gratuitous interest only that the lives of Varg and his mates have any need to be read.  And it is with absolute horror that we contemplate how some outwardly normal people can be so imbecilic (I would have said evil, but I don't want give anyone praise for their actions.)<br />This is a book that I do not recommend.  Not because I do not want people to hear the word of the black metallist (is there one?)  Nor because I am on some crusade of light against darkness, but because it is actually rubbish.  I feel absolutely no benefit from my reading it and I really wish I had not wasted my money.  I can see how huge this movement is not by the absolutely total non coverage in the news.  I can take comfort in the fact that so few people subscribe to the opinions of those highlighted in this book.	2000-12-19
US	49705922	R1N6QLTXB2MKKO	0899668194	913512957	Greyfriars Bobby	Books	4	19	19	N	N	Och sonsie auld lang syne bit wee dog ainsel ye ken?	And if you can understand that bit of Old Scottish then this book is definitely for you.<br />We all know the gist: a dog sits on his Master's grave for many years, becoming so well known that the Edinburgh authorities built a statue of the canny wee beastie.<br />What is most impressive is the author's magnificent depiction of Bobby's understanding.  Eleanor Atkinson is a master of the plausible and has us believe Bobby can understand English (or rather Scottish) by the tone and the mentioning of names by the speaker.  Bobby's actions are always totally in keeping with the actions of a very intelligent dog rather than the actions of a human.  The reader is never left thinking &quot;Are you sure?&quot; with any of Bobby's antics but is more inclined to applaud.<br />Another amazing fact of the story is Atkinson's very evocative depiction of Edinburgh in the 1860's, especially considering she had never been there.  I will however have to grumble slightly at the language she uses for the characters.  Authentic as I am sure it is, it is still a real struggle to muddle through, and it is intensely annoying to have to skip to the mini dictionary at the back of the book all the time.<br />As I say, a slight grumble on what is otherwise an enchanting read on the devotion and initiative of a legendary little dog.  I strongly recommend anyone with a dog, an interest in Auld Sotland or a need for a lift, to have a read.  It's lovely.	2000-12-13
US	49705922	R1DW9XB49140S	0671685635	207023183	Ghost Story	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Almost a classic	I was mesmerised by this book for all except the very end of it.  Peter Straub has managed to put together an outstanding piece of work that comes to within a whisker of perfection.  For 500 pages we travel through places that are effortlessly described by the author; Milburn is so real.  The characters are woven into a tight, warm script that never allows the high level of suspense to drop during the entirety of the book.  To cap everything, once the mystery is solved, Straub has the good sense to end the book almost immediately instead of going on for the sake of it.<br />So what is &quot;Ghost Story&quot;?  It is not as straight forward as it sounds.  Strange happenings start after the death of Edward Wanderley, a member of a group called the Chowder Society that consists of 5 old men who scare each other with sinister stories.  The idea of the log fire, the dinner jackets, the cigars and the whisky evokes a magical existence which sets the scene for the whole book.  The story never gets out of this ever-so-slightly surreal style which adds to the reading experience.  Even when describing harrowing events, the author still gives the effect of watching them through a bubble rather than most stories which plant you firmly at the scene.<br />I only have a couple of gripes with this novel, and it is these that stop it getting the 5 stars.  The first is the manner of the reaction of some members of the cast to the first deaths, particularly of the sheep on Elmer Scale's farm and the Dedham sisters.  I do not think they would have been ignored in the way that they were and as a result found the story developed as it did in a way it would not have.  <br />I also had a problem with  the constant scene changing towards the end of the book.  It was necessary and easy enough to follow up until the climax of the novel, but it continued until the very end where I personally thought it was unnecessary and detracted from the way I think it should have ended.  This, coupled withthe question of why did Don Wanderley meet Alma Mobley earlier in his life resulted in the book being slightly strained.  The fact that Mr. Straub only failed on these very minor points is indicative of his triumph.  To keep a ghost story going for as long as he has without it degenerating into mindless gore or distracting repetition is an accomplishment indeed.  This book  is such a fantastic, engrossing read, I am rather amazed that Peter Straub is not more well known	2000-10-23
US	49705922	R3FFADZNEAP2FE	0060197005	832267718	Stonehenge: 2000 B.C.--A Novel	Books	2	9	13	N	N	Rather disappointing	I have heard Bernard Cornwell talk about this book.  One of the smaller points he made was his preference for a novel to be told within the lifetime of one of the characters.  It is precisely this preference that is one of the reasons that &quot;Stonehenge&quot; fails.<br />The building itself we all know to be fantastic.  The fact that it was built at all is incredible given the period of Stone Age man. So it is surely pushing things too far to suggest that the people that built Stonehenge did so quickly, and not only that but built two henges on the same site as history tells us as quickly as the author suggests?<br />Coupled with this we are faced with a theme that is far more epic than Mr. Corwell's 500 or so pages have portrayed.  Another problem that the author has tried to overcome is that for all its majesty and folklore heritage, Stonehenge is simply a building.  To write a novel about its construction is surely too much to ask of any writer.  I feel as though a novel set against the backdrop of the construction would allow for a far more interesting novel than has been produced.  The difficulty lies in all the technical babble that Cornwell employs to explain the ins and outs of how Stone Age man managed to erect the huge stones.  We get bogged down in those details which are quite often rather confusing.<br />The story that is written around the building is also a bit disjointed.  Saban's time in Sarmennyn I thought never wholly convincing.  Nor did I think that all the treachery, death and magic flowed very well.  It could be that if more time was spent by the author exploring these themes rather than the construction, we might well have had a more rounded and enjoyable read.<br />It is very unfortunate also, that &quot;Stonehenge&quot; came hot on the heels of the magnificent &quot;Arthur&quot; series.  It would seem that because the cast of &quot;Stonehenge&quot; is earlier in time than that of &quot;Arthur&quot;, the author has made a definite decision to make them more savage and violent.  There may be some sense in the theory of that sentiment,  but it sits a little ill when the plot is weakened by an unending stream of deaths that leave the cast constantly changing and seldom settled.  If we did not have this pervading sense, more characters would have lasted longer and we could have had a more rounded cast.  Perversely, the opposite is true of those characters that do go the distance.  I found myself constantly thinking, &quot;they should have died by now.&quot; and other such thoughts.<br />There was a story to be written about &quot;Stonehenge&quot;, but I feel that Mr. Cornwell's effort was flawed on too many fronts for this to be called a success.  Bernard Cornwell can be brilliant, and I sincerely hope that his new trilogy on the 100 Years War is a successful return to the heights of the &quot;Arthur&quot; novels.	2000-10-19
US	49705922	R13PU29P81HP0N	0895263270	830768654	Allan Quartermain and the Lost City of Gold (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	2	4	8	N	N	So disappointing after &quot;King Solomon's Mines&quot;.	In the introduction of this book, Sir Henry Rider Haggard illustrates the differences, or rather the similarities, of the well-to-do &quot;civilised&quot; lady and the &quot;savage&quot; African.  It is the recurring theme throughout the book and one which grates with today's reader.  This novel is more like an early &quot;equality of man&quot; essay rather than the ripping yarn of &quot;King Solomon's Mines&quot;.<br />I do not know if the author was being radical at the time, or whether he was on some form of race agenda, but it sits ill with the modern mind and it sits ill in this story.  There are glaring inconsistencies such as the treatment of the &quot;savage&quot; Masai after the battle and the fact the that the race he finds in the middle of Africa is &quot;white&quot; and &quot;civilised&quot;.  If he is trying to make the issue of the African also being able to be civilised, why are the civilised Africans not black?<br />The story, however, is a reasonable read, and although occassionally plodding, the plot can be exciting.  Of particular note, the tunnel scene and the final battle at Milosis are thrilling.  Of rather less interest are the love lives of Curtis and Good, but these do not irritate as much as the race issue. <br />I may be expecting too much from a text over 100 years old, but the issue of race was largely ignored in &quot;King Solomon's Mine&quot;, and the book is much better for it.  &quot;Allan Quartermain&quot; ceases to be a harmless story of adventure, and instead becomes a rather contrived statement of the author's ideals.	2000-10-09
US	49705922	R1FINWZ8SFD0UR	0809298929	549184949	Lost on Everest: The Search for Mallory & Irvine	Books	4	3	5	N	N	Excellent and then America gets involved	Lost on Everest is an excellent book.  I saw the documentary that followed the modern-day climbers on their quest to find the bodies of Mallory and Irvine and watched a program that was almost all about the present day, and only a little of the main story.  The book is completely the opposite.  Of its 10 chapters, only the last 2 are dedicated to the search team of 1999.<br />The book begins with the early life of George Mallory from a child in rural Manchester to his life as a teacher.  It charters the early days of his climbing as well as his marriage to Ruth and other such milestones in Mallory's life.  Interwoven with the story of Mallory is the story of Everest itself.  From its humble beginnings as Peak XV to its now more recognised name, the history of the mountain is charted from the late 16th Century onwards.  It is this that appeals to me the most.  British Empirical history is a great love of mine and this book provides a very interesting viewpoint on a world we will never see again.  It maintains throughout a romanticism that is constantly hit hard by the tragedies and the politics of the time .  This theme is continued throughout the book, until its final chapters, and it is there that we hit the only problem in the book.<br />The difference between the recounting of the 1999 expedition and the rest of the book is marked.  For me, too marked.  Almost all of the book is swathed in the rich history only for the ugly face of today to rear up.  The writing of the \\"then and now\\" has proved a problem to the author who has managed to ruin the sense of the book at its end.  The recounting of the body search is very much at odds with the rest of the book and does not sit well.  It maybe that the historical aspect has been put across in an almost unreal way whilst the 1999 expedition comes across brutally and with little hint of the awe in which the climbers claim to feel as they look upon the body of Mallory.<br />A pity, for this book was for the most part spellbinding.  It is a great shame that the modern writing had to be at the end.  At the beginning and it would have been forgotten about as soon as we got into the interesting stuff.  Unfortunately this is not the case, and we have a somewhat spoilt feel to the whole read. I would definitely advise anyone to read it and many may not agree with my opinions.  This fascinating world of mountaineering and the story of Mallory and Irvine have combined to produce a piece of the greatest interest.	2000-09-26
US	49705922	R2MRROLNLDVQVK	1853261068	735425782	Moonfleet (Wordsworth's Children's Classics)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	A gem.	I saw an adaptation of this book on children's TV years ago.  I could not  quite remember the gist but jumped at the chance to read it when I found an  old copy in a Jumble Sale.<br />And it is really good.  A tale in the old  style, one of the first truly English novels.  Set somewhere on the South  coast, Moonfleet is the spiritual home of the Mohunes, a legendary group of  pirates.  The sea is always at the back of the story as we follow our young  hero, John, through his various scrapes.  His two goals in life are his  girl and the treasure.  As he searches for the way to both, John spends  many a memorable episode in such places as the church's crypt, is defeated  at almost every turn and goes through an adventure tinged with fear and  horror that will exhilirate the hardiest reader.<br />Although this is a  children's book, its themes and scenarios involve the most serious of  readers.  This is the archetypal &quot;good yarn&quot;.	2000-09-08
US	49705922	R1J8WTVZ6CN6NT	0895263297	756102367	King Solomon's Mines (Gateway Movie Classics)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Captures the spirit of the 19th Century like no other novel	The dates and events portrayed by Ed Gibbon in his review tell you at once  that this was not just some novel of the time but actually could have  happened.<br />Doctor Livingstone really could have appeared at any moment and  not been out of place.  Everything the modern mind knows about the times  and events of the period are in evidence in this book.<br />What is perhaps so  amazing is that such a ripping yarn could so easily have happened to real  people.  I have watched a film called &quot;Mountains of the Moon&quot;  which is the tail of Richard Burton and John Hanning Speke's search for the  source of the Nile.  Occurrances in that film tie in almost exactly with  events in the book, particularly the strange and hostile tribes that both  Allan Quartemain and Burton and Speke meet along their travels.<br />Whether  you read this as a grand and exciting journey through a strange land or as  a text that evokes attitudes and events of Imperial Britain in Africa  during the last century is up to you.  It is written so well by Rider  Haggard, however, that it is equally good as either.	2000-09-08
US	49705922	R2AR2K2WZXDC7Y	0451524160	283328506	The Secret Agent (Signet Classics)	Books	1	1	11	N	N	A bit pants really	Most Victorian novels seem to maintain a certain charm, even if they do  not retain any real relevence to today's society.  This book, written with  the intention of shocking early 20th century Britain, has no charm  whatsoever.  It does not make up for it in relevence either.  In fact I do  not believe this story has ever held any relevence to anyone,  anywhere.<br />It is a short, clumsy attempt of a story about anarchists and  their attempts to upset the establishment.  The bomb attack goes wrong and  everyone thinks twice about the use of force.  Nothing else really  happens.<br />It is simply terrible.  Thank God it is little more than a short  story.	2000-09-06
US	49705922	R34WQN2GC9ZD4Z	0061006629	388121391	Fatherland	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Surprising and very believable	Not usually my sort of book (once again I was drawn in by the cover!) but  one that has impressed and rather surprised me.  <br />The secret of this  books' quality lies in the scarily believable world of a victorious Germany  after WWII.  When you pause for thought, it is one hell of a &quot;What  if...&quot; to contemplate.<br />The actual story, as it follows the two leads  throughout their journey, is well paced and authoritative.  The intrigue is  there from the very start and the excitement that builds towards the end is  magnificent.  I know it is a cliche, but I could not put it down once I  neared the climax.<br />I even got the film version out afterwards, but was  predictably disappointed with an effort that contained many major plot  alterations and was not nearly as believable as the novel.<br />Go check it  out, it's good.	2000-09-06
US	49705922	R1BLC4OFXQ4YZQ	019212255X	694112118	Ghost Stories of M. R. James	Books	4	5	6	N	N	Meet the Master	I think a good ghost story is very hard to write.  M.R. James makes it  look easy.  There are others that lay claim to the title of the Father of  ghost stories, J. Sheridan LeFanu and L.P. Hartley to name but two.  It is  James, however, that will forever hold that title.  <br />His are generally  stories that evoke life in the 20 years either side of 1900 romantically.   They tend to be stories around Cathedrals or in Scholars houses or in and  around Schools where the schoolboy is sometimes included.<br />The reason why  these stories are so good is that James judges and recreates exactly the  correct amount of romance in each story that parallels the romantic notion  of the ghost in every person's mind.<br />If I had a complaint, it would be  that M.R. James' obvious intelligence (He was a professor at Cambridge  University for many years) is a little too much for some.  It could just be  that the language of the times are different and today some words are no  longer in everyday use or the style of speech has changed.<br />These are very  minor concerns, however.  The upshot is that M.R. James is and always will  be the Master and this complete collection of his works is the perfect  collection of ghost stories, never to be improved upon.	2000-09-01
US	49705922	REICKBV94PI8H	0684853159	2967327	The WASP FACTORY: A NOVEL	Books	1	24	33	N	N	Cobblers	The reviews that are emblazoned across the opening pages of this book are both good and bad.  The one constant in all of them, however, is the use of  words such as \\"grotesque\\" and \\"sadistic\\".  I can only help but think that  printing all the reviews is a ploy by the publishers to intrigue would-be  buyers into finding out just how depraved this book is.  Of all the reviews  on show, The Times is the most accurate when it describes this first novel  from Scottish author Iain Banks as \\"rubbish\\".<br />The gist of the story is  that Frank is a 16 year old boy living with his father on an otherwise  uninhabited Scottish island.  Frank is unusual in that he does not  officially exist and has made a habit of killing other children in his  recent past.  Frank is obsessive about his island defences as well as his  routines and of-course, his fascination with death.  Added to the story are  the unusual father, a mad older brother, a dwarf called Jamie, policeman  Diggs and Mrs. Clamp.  All are odd and all, except Diggs, are in the story  to add a degree of non-normality.  Mrs. Clamp, as far as I can tell is only  present so that Frank can think about how easy it would be to lock her in  the freezer. <br />The book is aimed to shock.  At its release in 1984 it  caused quite a stir.  As one of the reviews notes, there is no label for  this book.  It is not a horror because the author makes light of any  possible situation in a way that leaves the &quot;horror factor&quot; to a  minimum .  It is not a psychological novel because there is not enough  depth to the issues of the mind.  Instead the author goes somewhere between  the two, leaving the reader with a confused piece of work that is too  unbelievable to ever frighten and far too simple to make the reader  think.<br />At the end of this novel there is a short chapter entitled \\"What  happened to me\\".  This is the final nail in the coffin as Banks proceeds to  tell the reader why Frank did the things he did.  I personally would have  preferred to sit back and come to my own conclusions, whether they are  right or wrong.  I do not appreciate having things explained to me.  That  to my mind is a sign of weakness on the part of the author.  I think it  shows that an author believes in their own mind that they have not  expressed themselves well enough in the story.  That is akin to failure and  \\"The Wasp Factory\\" certainly fails.	2000-08-03
US	49705922	R3I1L61A7NHZWC	1850896178	35728913	Moobli	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Ridiculous name for a dog.	Moobli.  Ridiculous name for a dog, if you ask me.  However, what a dog and what a life.  The author decides he needs a dog to help and companion him during his self inflicted lonliness in the middle of the last  wilderness in Britain. From the beginning, when the puppy cannot take his  eyes off Tomkies, to the inevitably sad ending, we read the diary of a  magnificent beast and its intense relationship with the one human he  knows.<br />It is brilliant escapism for the reader because we know it is  true.  We feel acutely the pain that Moobli will have felt the one time he  is physically punished by Tomkies.  And the shame that Tomkies feels  afterwards is almost palpable. A rather unusual, and certainly  unfashionable, story but one in which the reader can become embroiled and  lost within.  If it has ever crossed your mind to live in the middle of  nowhere, this book will tell whether you could.<br />I finished  &quot;Moobli&quot; with a profound sense that I knew the dog personally.   This book made me realise the special bond between man and dog.  It made me  miss my dog.	2000-07-25
US	49705922	RGZOQ0NFN4GGO	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	3	67	74	N	N	The most thought provoking of novels	Excited at the prospect of reading a serious, contemporary novel,  I leapt into the first pages of &quot;Disgrace&quot;.  Making an episode of &quot;Eastenders&quot; look like a comic masterpiece, this novel is a dark,  miserable and distressing piece of soul-destroying fiction.<br />Although I  found lead character David Lurie's behaviour at the trial a little  unlikely, the themes studied briefly around generation relationships,  prostitutes and teacher-student confidence were at the very least thought  provoking and at most mind blowing.  The differences between the attitudes  of the men and the women at the trial, for example, are massive and yet  Coetzee sums them up in one small sentence that generates extensive thought  from the reader. <br />It is Coetzee's very abrupt and sparse writing style  that is the revelation of the book.  The strong racial issue of South  Africa is hardly ever touched upon, but the reader is made completely aware  of its existence with hardly a word uttered.  Lucy's attack at the farm is  never described, but you know exactly what has happened. Or, more  precisely, you know exactly what David knows which means you are thinking  the exact thoughts of a father traumatized by his daughter's trauma.   Brilliant.<br />So what is wrong with &quot;Disgrace&quot;?  Although mine are  rather small concerns, I fear they held back the book significantly.   David's unusual behaviour, from start to finish, always left me frowning.     I think David's fall from grace, engineered rather unlikely by himself, is  simply too big. Surely an intelligent man would never have so little  foresight to create his situation.  Surely such a serial philanderer would  never get a conscience as fast as David Lurie does.  Surely a woman such as  Lucy would never react to her situation as she does.<br />I found myself  thinking more and more about what each situation symbolized rather than  what was actually happening.  Finding only tenuous links in my own mind  left me feeling unsure of the whole plot and story.  The worst culprit of  this confusing symbolism is that which comes with the ending.  I really do  not know what Coetzee is trying to say in the last chapter or so.  At  least, what I have come up with seems weak.<br />It is for me a disappointing  end to a fantastic book.  From the start the reader knows that they are  reading genius.  Throughout the reader is swept along on a bed of human  tragedy.  But finally the reader is defeated by just too much being left  unsaid by Coetzee.<br />I certainly recommend this book to anyone and I wish I  could give it a really good score, but the author simply lost me too much.	2000-07-24
US	49705922	RS8WQGHDH4N2Q	0345435796	285378245	The First Horseman	Books	3	0	0	N	N	A good yarn	Based very loosely on a true story, John Case has weaved a fast paced, can we save the world from a mad scientist/cult? type thing.  Exciting throughout, if a little rushed at the end.  Fourteen-year-olds would think  this really good reading, the rest of us enjoy a simple story that flows  easily.	2000-06-08
US	49705922	RY6UCRIJ2UHGH	0380005166	95189240	Shardik	Books	1	6	43	N	N	Shardik is a waste of trees	Having loved Watership Down, I grabbed feverishly at the first pages of the &quot;bear&quot; version only to be asleep in minutes. This book is almost unbelievably slow.  It is about strange tribes on strange lands and  a giant bear-god.<br />I know that talking rabbits is not exactly reality, but  this book should reside in the fantasy section of your local library  alongside Terry Pratchett, Tolkien, or even in the bin. I am sure there are  many out there who can find comparisons with our own world, with some  extremely meaningful message to save mankind from everlasting doom etc etc,   but I simply found it awful.<br />It is no surprise that no-one has ever  heard of Richard adam's follow up to Watership Down.  Most people are  probably too embarressed to mention the two books in the same sentence	2000-06-01
US	49705922	R8S58UAQJN6X9	0688036309	510904084	One Corpse Too Many: A Medieval Novel of Suspense	Books	3	1	3	N	N	Misses the target	Cadfael mysteries should be about sleuthing around. About telling the reader why something is important without telling them who it points to. Peters generally has us guessing up until the final moment as to the  villain. But with almost all of this book being taken up by the blossoming  romance between Godith and Torold and whether they escape or not, the  actual murder and therefore murderer are only really touched upon in the  last two chapters. Unusually, I knew the killer very early on. This was  more to do with the fact that there was no-one else who could reasonably be  the killer as opposed to my own detective genius. This book left me with  the same feeling as watching a film billed as a Schwarzenegger  Action-thriller only to find that it was all about rabbits.	2000-05-30
US	49705922	R1CD8CW80HQV1R	0385005466	574109455	Night Without End	Books	3	4	5	N	N	Not quite there.	This is one of Maclean's earlier efforts and it unfortunately comes across as such.  The plot is, as always, excellent, but the actual writing is a little laboured. It is noticeable that telling the story in the first  person creates a difficulty for the writer, with small irritations becoming  manifestly larger as the book goes on: I nearly screamed at the number of  times the author used the word &quot;chagrin&quot; to explain the feelings  of Mason, the lead character. But this is all too negative.  The story is a  very good one, you are kept guessing throughout  (as with every Maclean  novel) and the book ends on one of the more gruesome, and therefore good,  ways to die in any fictitious medium	2000-05-19
US	49705922	R3BS5UXDS0AAVI	0449215814	98399939	Where Eagles Dare	Books	4	2	4	N	N	A fine piece jerry - bashing.	This is simply one of those can't put down, thrill - a - minute, will he won't he? classic books that have us reliving WWII.  Bullets wizz, double agents crawl out of every hole and you are never quite sure of the outcome.   Brilliant,  I am so glad Maclean wrote thirty odd thrillers, I won't be  running out for a while!	2000-05-19
US	49705922	R2RGHIDDZZ99CJ	0061052256	888854083	The Lost	Books	4	8	10	N	N	Did anyone actually read the book?	I read the reviews to this book as soon as I finished it.  I was absolutely amazed by what I saw. For all those people who gave it one star, or complained of it being about vampires, or not being about vampires are  all totally wrong. This novella is written exactly like Bram Stoker's  &quot;Dracula&quot; with extracts and letters telling the story. There is  the obvious &quot;undead&quot; link and some extremely unpleasant thoughts  planted in our minds by the writer later on, but ultimately Aycliffe has  provided us with a fascinating little story that in turn interests,  enthralls and finally exhilirates the reader. Reviewers, please try  thinking about what you have read before you dismiss it as dross.   Otherwise you show to all others that you do not know what you are talking  about.	2000-05-19
US	49705922	R2GMA15PXNM1YH	0312156960	631070530	The Winter King (The Arthur Books #1)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Brilliant Trilogy	It takes a lot to keep my attention. That is the reason why the novels I read tend to be less than 500 pages.  For me to have read an entire trilogy says a lot for the author's storytelling ability; he never bores, or gets  bogged down in the trivial.   We will never know the truth behind Arthur,  but I am happy to accept this version of events through its humanising of  Arthur to the brilliant portrayal of Merlin. Instead of reverting to modern  day conjuring, Cornwell has written Merlin as a very shrewd man that evokes  magic in rather ingenious ways so as to captivate the highly superstitious  and ritualistic Pagan Britons. The use of Dervel Cadarn as narrator also  pulls off a coup.  Giving the story of royalty from the eyes of a lowly man  adds to the mystique as we do not get told absolutely everything as Dervel  does not go everywhere with Arthur. My one complaint is that Excalibur ends  a little too abruptly.  With reference to my first comments, perhaps this  abruptness has more to do with more to do with my wishing it would never  end, rather than a weakness of the story. This trilogy should become a  classic, only time will tell.	2000-04-28
US	49705922	R1RFSR8SR0TQIL	0385494149	801233492	Enduring Love: A Novel	Books	4	1	3	N	N	McEwan makes me want to drink Lager.  (Pun!)	This is the first McEwan I've read and, Good God, was it worth it.  Fantastic plotlines, right from the first chapter and it did not stop there.  With marvellous description and development of character, McEwan takes you on a spiralling roller coaster ride that leaves you exhausted in  your armchair. I am definitely going to buy more of this fine fellow's  efforts.	2000-04-27
US	49705922	R2H8GVBY7908B7	0374280355	605962018	The Unburied	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A brillliant murder-mystery	Dr Courtine is an investigative historian taking advantage of a little spare time before Christmas to study his favourite subject, Alfred the Great. Instead of a little quiet solitude, Dr. Courtine becomes involved in  an investigation of a disappearance two hundred years ago, uncovers lies  and deceit with regards to his manuscript and becomes embroiled in a murder  investigation.  Throw in the ghost and a shifty former best friend, and all  Palliser's ingredients are in place. Written through accounts as opposed to  narrative, along the same lines as Bram Stoker's &quot;Dracula&quot;, The  Unburied is a compelling piece of historical fiction that evokes the  Victorian period vividly. The setting, characters and most of all the  strong plot which maintains intrigue throughout, result in a fantastic  read.  This is the first Palliser novel I have read, I do not intend to  stop there.	2000-04-25
US	49705922	R3FFQH13TJPKDG	0593033760	309499274	House of Tribes	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A wonderful read	Garry Kilworth has provided us with a delightful insight into the world of mice.  The book follows the trials and tribulations of a &quot;visionary&quot; mouse called Pedlar as he attempts to rid a house of  humans.  With a cast that includes such names as Phart, Flegm, Jarl  Forkwhiskers and Ferocious, there is plenty of opportunity for humour from  the author.  This book is far better than Midnight's Sun and, although the  ending seems a little rushed, I challenge anyone to say the story and  characters are anything less than charming.	2000-04-25
US	49705922	R2OTKO76VFOXHR	0786865520	748996162	Something Dangerous: A Novel	Books	2	0	2	N	N	Almost so good	I started this book with a sense of foreboding, the back cover review saw to that.  In its early stages, Something Dangerous (aka &quot;The Wishing Game&quot; in Britain) is excellent. The actions of Rokeby towards his  teachers and his class mates leave you feeling a little dubious.  Would a  14-year-old actually ever act like that?  You get over it and assume he  would, but just as you get to the really good scenes, the author resorts to  the use of infuriatingly wrong punctuation (!  or ! ) and UPPER CASE FOR  SHOUTING. It is all so disappointing.  The reader is clever enough to spot  a shout if the author is up to conveying it.  I do not think Mr. Redmond is  and there the novel falls apart. There are just a few things wrong with  this novel, but they destroy the atmosphere of the story.  You want to get  immersed in the words but are constantly being put off by the delibrate  basic English errors. A shame	2000-04-19
US	49705922	RRUWH0Y5DRMIJ	0586213457	593477560	Midnights Sun	Books	2	2	4	N	N	It could have been so good!	I first read this book some years ago and remember feeling distinctly disappointed.  It simply is not as good as Hunter's Moon, a Story of Foxes. In re-reading the book recently, the same opinion was reached.   It is  wonderfully well written, Kilworth loathe to the obvious similies (he ran  like a... she jumped like a ....)which so many authors pass off as  description, and the book is the better for it.  Events in the book,  however, result in the necessity for too much monologue as the main  character, Athaba, finds himself so often alone.  If the story had more  dialogue, more interaction between characters, then we could have had a  class novel.  Instead we get pages and pages of description and of thought  from Athaba and little input from anyone else.  Unlike other characters in  other Kilworth animal stories, there is little here that endears you to the  cast of Midnight's Sun.  This is a pity.  Kilworth's obvious talent for the  written word is evident, but the plot is far too weak a vehicle for the  story to flow.  It would have been a better story if we followed Athaba the  Pack Leader and not Athaba the Outcast.	2000-04-19
