US	49726283	R2KQJMSO61O4B8	0976775301	625311728	Terror at Beslan: A Russian Tragedy with Lessons for America's Schools	Books	5	84	122	N	N	It can happen here!	When Chechen warlord Shamil Basayev sent his jihadists to slaughter schoolchildren in predominantly Christian North Ossetia, he expected to ignite a holy war throughout Russia.  North Ossetia and neighboring Muslim republic Ingushetia had previously fought a bloody territorial war, and the truce was bitter.  Basayev counted on Caucasus tradition, which would grant the bereaved men of Beslan blood-vengeance following their 40-day Orthodox rites of mourning.  He believed that a massacre of children, which culminated the week of deadly terrorist attacks on Russian civilians, would spark massive retaliation against Chechnya.  That innocent Ingush and Chechens would suffer meant little to Basayev, who has always gladly exploited the population as human shields and suicide-bombers.  One out of every seven Russian citizens is a Muslim, but most practice the traditional Islam which is dispised as \\"kafir\\" by Basayev's Wahhabis.  Basayev hoped a nationwide backlash against Islam would radicalize all of Russia's Muslims.  That this did not occur was due to two things:  the government's and media's restraint in not exploiting the atrocity to advance the war effort.  And more importantly, the North Ossetians' own restraint in not taking indiscriminate revenge on their Muslim neighbors.  But Basayev achieved at least one important goal:  he showed the world that terrorists consider no targets off limits, not even the most innocent.    John Giduck, the author of \\"Terror at Beslan,\\" is president of the Archangel Corporation, a US 501 (c)(3) non-profit NGO.  Archangel provides anti-terrorism consulting and training to law-enforcement, military, and other government agencies.  Mr. Giduck himself is a US Army Special Forces hand-to-hand combat and firearms instructor, tactical scuba and skydiving instructor, weightlifting champion, and has been inducted into several international martial arts halls of fame.  He holds Masters Degrees in Russian Studies and International Affairs.  And he holds our nation's highest level of security clearance.  Archangel operates in over 20 countries; its membership includes elite SPEC-warriors from the US military, British SAS, Russian spetsnaz, and Israeli armed forces.  Here is an impeccable, knowledgeable, and thoroughly credible source, to document this notorious terrorist act and apply its lessons to American schools.    Mr. Giduck with his Archangel team was on site in Beslan immediately following the firefight, researching step-by-step the deadly chronology of events.  Archangel's professionals analysed the strategies and mistakes of the Russian Alpha and Vympel forces who responded to the desperate situation.  But not only to get an accurate account (which the Russian government was obstructing):  The author believes it is only a matter of time until terrorists commit a similar attack on an American school.    \\"Terror at Beslan\\" is not really intended for the reader who wants the victims' story.  For that, there are several Beslan websites with personal accounts from survivors.  The book does corraborate their memoirs by detailing what the American media was loathe to mention: the terrorists' slaughter of dozens of male faculty and teenaged boys, the repetitive rape of young girls, the beatings and psychological torment of captives.  The author, like the residents of Beslan, is quick to credit the heroism of his spetsnaz colleagues, while criticizing the inaction of the government.  This is imperative, because numerous rumors and outright falsehoods have arisen in both Western and Russian media in the year following the atrocity.  Alpha and Vympel, who lost 12 of their members, have been wrongly accused of using excessive force and illegal weapons.  At the same time, contradictorily, they are vilified for their unreadiness on the third day of the seige, when the terrorists began shooting and detonating their bombs.  Mr. Giduck dispels all the lies, while honestly assessing his colleagues' true shortcomings.  The second half of the book deals with the defense of American schools from a Beslan-like terrorist attack.  Archangel is not being paranoid in its assumption that such an attack is inevitable. Cleric Omar Bakri Mohammed, in a celebratory conference in London to commemorate the anniversaries of Beslan and 9-11, declared the targeting of children a \\"reasonable course of action\\" in jihad.  Basayev, in a 2005 interview on the American ABC network, agreed that such an act did not \\"cross the line\\" for committed jihadists.  Children and other civilians are viewed by such terrorists not as innocent noncombatants, but as \\"disarmed combatants.\\"  Mr. Giduck gives credible and frightening evidence that jihadists are already here -- some are \\"guests\\" of NGOs such as the inaptly-named National Endowment for Democracy! -- already threatening our most precious and vulnerable.  Archangel's website provides information on upcoming seminars and training courses, designed to assist law-enforcement in techniques to prevent or handle the kind of horror these terrorists envision.  It is encouraging to see from other reviews that this topic is being taken seriously!  I recommend this book strongly for parents, teachers, and anyone concerned with the protection of schoolchildren.  I wish it would be read by every lefty-lib and neocon loony in the N.E.D. and mainstream media who believes it \\"can't happen here.\\"	2005-09-24
US	49726283	R3LJRLAS0Z6SNM	1418493023	202226379	ELEVEN DAYS OF HELL: MY TRUE STORY OF KIDNAPPING, TERROR, TORTURE AND HISTORIC FBI & KGB RESCUE	Books	5	9	10	N	N	Survivors!	In the heady days following the fall of communism, many Western entrepreneurs were lured to the Wild East to make their fortune.  But Russia's new crony-capitalism was in the hands of greedy government crooks, mobsters, oligarchs, scammers, and bandits.  Yvonne and her then-husband were betrayed by their shady partners, and held for ransom for eleven terrifying days.  Their captors were members of the Chechen mafiya, considered to be the most ruthless of Russia's organized mobs.  They were known to bomb an entire marketplace to punish one offending kiosk, and their kidnap victims were rarely seen again.  Perhaps fortunately for the Australian couple, their captors needed them alive, to ransom them for $1.6 million dollars.  Certainly it was fortunate these Chechens were seemingly traditional Sufis and not converts to the Wahhabist extremism which later would infiltrate the Caucasus.  The Jewish couple with \\"rich American friends\\" could be exploited for funds needed for the separatist rebellion.  So Yvonne and her husband would be fed and kept alive -- but brutalized, beaten, and violated daily by their sadistic captors.  Permitted a closely monitored phone conversation, Yvonne cleverly relayed to her American relatives that she was in danger.  That's how the FBI got involved in the rescue of two Australian hostages.  A Russian-American lawyer coordinated with the Russian KGB in an unprecedented cooperative mission.  The couple was saved, but their ordeal not over.  Nightmares and post-traumatic stress would take a toll on their marriage.  It would take Yvonne more than ten years to write her story, in so doing, to exorcize the demons.  But last week, she was smiling as she conversed with prospective customers at a book-signing.  Difficult to believe this petite, soft-spoken woman with upbeat demeanor and charming Australian accent was a survivor of the most beastly terrorism!  With such an amazing and inspiring story, I'd expect to see her soon on Oprah's TV show!	2005-09-05
US	49726283	R3C3Q70XR6XJOG	0913321044	662240881	The Antichrist and Gog and Magog	Books	5	4	9	N	N	The Islamic interpretation of End Times prophecy	Karl Marx was mistaken when he said religion is \\"the opiate of the people.\\"  To the contrary, it seems religion is more like a catalyst for violence.  Take, for example, the jihad in the Caucasus.  In today's turbulent times, it is necessary to go to the source, in order to gain a modicum of understanding.  This book explains the Scriptural reasons behind the current conflict in the Caucasus.  The Qur'an,like the Christian Bible, speaks of the Antichrist(Dajjal), Gog and Magog (Ya'juj and Ma'juj),and the Beast (Dabbat al-Ard) in connection with the End Times prophesies.  Until the dissolution of the USSR, Christian scholars rather simplistically  identified Gog and Magog as the USSR or \\"Russia.\\"  More specifically, the Caucasus region.    The Qur'an also mentions the Persian conqueror Dhu-l-Qarnain (Darius 1, 521-485 BC), whose Empire extended from the Black Sea to the mountains of Armenia and Azerbaijan, from Tubal (present day Tblisi, in Georgia) to Mechech (present day Chechnya).  Gog and Magog, according to the Qur'an, are two tribes from among the descendents of Japheth, son of Noah.  Significantly, the Chechens' original name for themselves, \\"Nokhchi\\" means \\"Noah's  People,\\" and their language, Nukh, is declared to be that of the ancient Patriarch.   While the Qur'an asserts that Gog signifies the Eastern nations of Europe, Qur'anic scholars identify Magog as the Western nations of Europe, personified as England.  Maulana Muhammad Ali cites proof:  since ancient times the statues of Gog and Magog have stood before the Guildhall of London.  In the vision of Damim Dari: after a month-long voyage to a large western island (considered to be Britain), the Christian convert to Islam encounters a huge figure shackled within a  church.  The being identifies himself as Masih al-Dajjal, the Antichrist, who expects to be released before long, when \\"I shall sally forth in the whole world, excepting Makkah and  Madinah.\\"  The Antichrist of the Qur'an, therefore, is the false religion of Christianity, whose pillaging has been manifested \\"in the East.\\"  Islam believes in Messiah, and in Jesus, son of Mary, a  great prophet.  But the Qur'an denounces the Christian doctrine of the Divinity of Christ as a great tribulation of humanity: \\"The heavens may almost be rent thereat, and the earth cleave asunder, and the mountains fall down in pieces, that they ascribe a son to the Beneficent!\\"  The Promised Messiah will destroy the Antichrist (whose doctrines profane Jesus), refered to in prophecy (hadith) as \\"breaking the Cross.\\"  Besides the whole of Christendom, the forces of Antichrist include 70,000 Jews.  Ali points to the Zionist \\"control of America and Europe\\" as present day fulfillment of this prophecy.  The Biblical designation of the \\"Beast\\" has been applied to the United Nations, its 10 horns signifying the original 5 members (America, Russia, England, France, China), and 5 future  members (perhaps the pact-applicants Germany, Brazil, Japan, India; and recent aspirant Egypt).  The Qur'an is less specific than the Bible regarding the Apocalyptic Beast.  Ali suggests it represents the non-spiritual pursuits of the infidel nations which \\"enslave\\" Muslims; i.e. a  punishment for those Muslims who are enticed by worldly [Western] materialism and promiscuity.  In light of the Islamic interpretation of Antichrist and Gog and Magog, al Qaeda's need to establish a pan-Islamist caliphate (imamate) in the Caucasus becomes clear.  As does its  reason for declaring war on the \\"Crusaders and Zionists.\\" (Bible prophesy seems to agree that Gog of Magog, the pan-Islamist Caliphate, will attack Israel in the End Times, ushering in Armageddon.)        However, the Founder of the Ahmadiyya Anjuman Ishaat Islam, publisher of this booklet, seeks to \\"revive the original liberal, tolerant, and rational spirit of Islam,\\" claiming that Islam \\"has never advocated coercion, the use of physical force, or the pursuit of political power in its support.\\"  Indeed, some of Maulana Muhammad Ali's writings, particularly regarding the rights of women, demonstrate this fundamentalist sect's opposition to Wahhabis and other radicals.  Even in regard to the Great Satan, Ali does not exhort Muslims to attack the  infidels, but quotes Scripture suggesting that the \\"resplendence of the sun of Islam\\" will \\"rise inthe West,\\" that is; numbers of the followers of Antichrist (i.e. Christians) will be saved by  peaceful conversion to Islam.   Why then, does this Pakistani sect of \\"pure\\" Islam not confront and denounce the violent jihadists who disgrace the faith? Instead of making incendiary references to the \\"terrible warfare between Christian Europe and Islam,\\" and about the Jews, who according to the Qur'an are to \\"be [as] apes, despised and hated\\"...?   In this, too, it seems the answer becomes clear.  A very important book.	2005-07-11
US	49726283	R1SL0V8L5QAM0P	1416500146	278287036	I.K.S. Gorkon, Book 3: Enemy Territory (Star Trek: Klingon Empire) (Bk. 3)	Books	5	3	6	N	N	KRAD's Klingon Heart	Keith R. A. DeCandido knows the Klingon heart and spirit, and \\"Enemy Territory\\" is sure to please any klinfan.  KRAD is a fan himself, and the author of several superior pro-novels and much excellent fan-fiction.  In the best fanfic tradition, he has melded concepts from John M. Ford's definitive Klingon novel, \\"The Final Reflection,\\" with elements from The Franchise to create a rollicking Klingon series.  Supporting characters from Trek episodes are brought together and fleshed-out far beyond their one-shot roles in the series, yet remain true to their \\"canonic\\" characterization.  Add an action-packed plot with some very original (and truly *alien*) adversaries whose socio-political culture KRAD has created with fine detail.   Klingons are aliens too, and KRAD does not let the reader forget that -- his protagonists think and speak and behave like *Klingons*.  The Klingon language (a combination of Okrandian tlhIngan Hol and Fordian klingonaase) is sprinkled throughout, adding authenticity to the prose. The female characters are particularly well-drawn in the I.K.S. Gorkon series, with much stronger roles than usually seen in the televised Trek.  If you are a klinfan, one of those Trek enthusiasts who prefers the Klingons to Roddenberry's other alien creations, you will really enjoy this series.  I have only one critique: the ghISnar, aka grishnar, is not a small cat, such as the tI'qa' (domestic Housecat) and vIghro'(small wildcat).  In the one DS9 episode in which it was mentioned, Gowron refered to Sisko as a \\"toothless grishnar cat,\\" in Fedegon idiom, a \\"toothless tiger.\\"  The ghISnar is clearly a large, ferocious Klingon beast.    On a final note, I noticed KRAD dedicated \\"Enemy Territory\\" to his late feline companion, Mittens.  I was personally touched by that.  I'm sure Mittens' ka is in Sto-Vo-Kor, hunting and carousing and practicing kung-fu with all the Klingon cats who've gone before.	2005-07-04
US	49726283	R3GJ47NK1NJQDB	1843430509	899348512	Putin's Russia	Books	3	13	20	N	N	Excellent topic, poor journalism	While presenting factual problems which beset today's Russia, the book's title is deliberately misleading.  Politkovskaya, a controversial contributor to the leftist Novaya gazeta, would have the reader believe all the problems were brought about by current president Vladimir V. Putin.  In fact, Putin inherited them from previous regimes.  The appalling conditions within the military were already entrenched in the 80's, during the Afghanistan War.  And control over business by organized crime, mafiya, and oligarchy arose in the early 90's.  Corruption of government bureaucracy defined the Yeltsin era.  Until recently, there had never been a Russian economic \\"middle-class.\\"  Even the Chechen conflict, about which Politkovskaya has written extensively, began before Putin's time and had devolved into terrorism and jihad several years before September 11, 2001. These are all issues which Putin's administration has tackled, with varying degrees of capability or success.  These are important topics of better books, most notably one sharing the same title, by Liliya Shevtsova.  The latter is an associate of the respected, liberal Carnegie Endowment, and can hardly be accused of being a Putin apologist.  But Politkovskaya has a political ax to grind, and it shows in her writing.  This is, after all, the diva of the leftist press who aspires to being the \\"Russian Michael Moore.\\"  Her unfavorable articles comparing Putin with George W. Bush (see: \\"Kovboy frendi\\" - \\"Cowboy Buddies\\")have appeared in Novaya gazeta and leftist French publications.  Her outspoken sympathy for the Chechen Islamist cause and association with rebel leaders earned her reputation as a \\"Russian Hanoi Jane.\\"  Notorious as Russia's leading radical journalist, her passion is undeniable.  So a certain amount of political spin is to be expected.  But true journalism comes down to trustworthiness, and that is where Politkovskaya fails.  As with \\"Farenheit 9/11,\\" which she deemed an \\"excellent\\" model, \\"Putin's Russia\\" is a perplexing mixture of real fact and obvious political agenda.  For that reason, it only rates three stars.Russia\\" is a perplexing mixture of real fact and obvious political agenda.  For that reason, it only rates three stars.	2005-06-15
US	49726283	R3KYMW6RY6H6RA	1594200440	549104190	A Short History of Tractors in Ukrainian: A Novel	Books	5	18	22	N	N	a delight to read	I highly recommend this delightful, fast-reading novel, which should appeal to just about any reader.  There are already several excellent reviews posted for this wonderful novel.  So I needn't go into detail of the story.  In a nutshell, it's about two sisters, Nadia and Vera, Ukrainian immigrants who have not spoken to eachother in years.  They are compelled to join forces when their doddering widowed dad introduces his soon-to-be, mail-order bride from the Old Country.  Valentina is clearly a gold-digger of the worst sort, a wanton wench with a fantastic (but fake) bosum and an obsession for the good (that is, Western) life.  All Nikolai wants is a trophy wife for his old age, and to finish his masterpiece, a treatise about tractors and their significance to civilization.  Protecting their papa and vanquishing Valentina proves quite a challenge for the sisters.  And quite entertaining for the reader lucky enough to find this gem of a novel!  Apart from the humorous conflict, the author gives us an authentic and very affectionate glimpse into the lives of Ukrainian immigrants.  And a compassionate account of the joys of caring for an aged parent.  Don't miss \\"A Short History of the Tractor in Ukrainian.\\"	2005-05-31
US	49726283	R108BCWWXXF5KC	0684872544	967310766	Wolves Eat Dogs	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Ride with Elena, then with Arkady	I eagerly awaited the newest adventure of Arkady Renko, and \\"Wolves Eat Dogs\\" did not fail to deliver.  Arkady is like a personal friend, one I missed in the years since \\"Havana Bay\\".  He always gets involved with the most intriguing people and unusual places.  This time he takes on a few of the Russian Oligarchy and ends up in the scariest place on earth, the \\"Dead Zone\\" of Chernobyl.  A suggestion to the prospective reader:  before you hop aboard Arkady's motorcycle, take a quick tour of the Dead Zone with another, real-life, biker.  Elena is from Kiev, the daughter of a former Chernobyl physicist.  Dosimeter at hand, she often rides her Kawasaki Ninja through the deserted streets of the Ghost Town.  Visit her website, kiddofspeed.com, and see the haunting images captured by her camera.  Elena will give you the rundown on radioactivity and prepare you for your trip, when you accompany Arkady into this most bleak yet eerily beautiful setting.  Martin Cruz Smith has been there, too; has personally seen the things Elena has.  He introduces us to the people who officially work in the Zone -- the physicists, physicians, and environmentalists -- and the peasants who refuse to abandon their Black Villages, their Red forests, and \\"hot\\" cemeteries.  We meet police and poachers, squatters and scavengers, and other hardy folk who make their living in Chernobyl.  As usual, the story is exciting, the characters compelling, and we careen toward the conclusion, wherein all mysteries will be resolved.  Or will they?  For the first time, I completed an Arkady Renko novel with a lingering feeling of dissatisfaction.  The last chapter in particular... I don't want to give anything away, except it was difficult to reconcile it with the compassionate Arkady who freed the sables in \\"Gorky Park.\\"	2004-12-27
US	49726283	R3I8K5KWUAI3Q2	1403315213	733662097	Vengeance In My Heart: A Novel of the Civil War	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Terrorism in Lawrence	Vengeance in my Heart -- A Novel of the Civil War <br /> <br />At the mention of the Civil War, my friend from Alabama makes this correction: \\"That's the `War Between the States', hon.  There was nothing `civil' about it.\\"  After reading this book, I'm inclined to agree.  When I studied the American Civil War in my Philadelphia high school, I learned about the Abolitionist movement.  I learned about the fate of John Brown and the words to the song \\"John Brown's Body Lies A-Moulderin' In the Grave\\".  <br />What I didn't learn about was the extent of the bloody raiding and guerrilla warfare between pro-slavery forces in Missouri and abolitionist \\"Jayhawkers\\" forces in Kansas. Not just John Brown, but hundreds, perhaps thousands, of people were murdered.  The <br />most notorious and attrocious was the 1863 raid on Lawrence, Kansas, by a gang of 150 Confederates.  The gang included such now-famous outlaws as Cole Younger and Frank and Jesse James, and was led by a rather mercurial character named William Quantrill. \\"Vengeance In My Heart\\" documents the Lawrence Raid in a novelized form, utilizing dialogue from eyewitness accounts.  Most of the accounts come from letters and diaries of <br />the women of Lawrence, making this book unusual among Civil War histories by presenting a female perspective.  Many of these women's husbands were massacred in the raid; hunted down and shot in cold blood. The Southern code of chivalry no doubt <br />protected the ladies of Lawrence, who fought valiantly to defend their menfolk.  Again and again I was amazed by the accounts of wives who desperately grappled with the guerrillas and horses, or cunningly disguised and hid their loved ones.  Southern chivalry did not prevent the raiders from burning down houses even as the women blocked their entrances.  Besides the plucky ladies, there were some gallant Indians and freed former slaves who fought to protect Lawrence from the guerrillas.  I found the carnage of \\"Vengeance In My Heart\\" horrifying.  But this is a fascinating and little known history.  The book concludes with a most interesting epilogue, in which the raiders' fates are <br />described.  Not surprisingly, many met viloent ends.  Others became \\"honest citizens\\" after the War, and some even were romanticized in legend.	2004-11-21
US	49726283	R2V7TJHLM2MZV1	0345298349	941873607	Gorky Park (Arkady Renko Novels)	Books	5	50	57	N	N	start of a terrific series	It was unfortunate I saw the Hollywood version of &quot;Gorky Park&quot;  before reading the novel.  The film does not do justice to the main character or the storyline.  It cannot compare to the book!  After reading &quot;Polar Star&quot; and Red Square&quot;, the second and third installments of the series, I picked up the original and loved it.  More recently, &quot;Havana Bay&quot; was published, and later this year a long-awaited fifth novel, &quot;Wolves Eat Dogs&quot;, will be released.  Arkady Renko, the protagonist of the series, is an honest, dedicated, hard-working Ukrainian cop.  When he was Chief Homicide Inspector for the Moscow Prosecutor's Office, he took charge of a grisly murder case involving the international fur trade.  Very quickly, he fell afoul of the KGB.  That's how his troubles began, which pursue him throughout all four novels.  I recommend this series highly.  The settings are supurbly drawn -- from snowbound Moscow to an Arctic Sea fish processing ship, from a steam-filled banya to the steamy port of Havana.  Wherever he goes, Arkady brings his cynical love-hate relationship with the Soviet system which often impedes his work.  Like Columbo, he outsmarts the sly evil-doers while seemingly fumbling his way along the investigation.  And he has more lives than the proverbial cat as his sleuthing lands him in the most lethal stews!  Author Martin Cruz Smith has created one of the most likable protagonists in police fiction.  Cleverly  writing the character as just &quot;Arkady&quot; --  intimately using his first name -- helps endear him to the reader.  We care for Arkady because of his moral strengths, his humility and compassion, and despite his weaknesses.  Along the way, Arkady has fallen obsessively in love with the most unsuitable woman imaginable: an obnoxious, abrasive dissident who not only treats him like dirt and breaks his heart, but is the cause of his political woes.  It is hard to lament in the least her later demise!  But wesympathize with our hero's suffering and rejoice in his small rewards.  Reward yourself by reading this exceptional series, beginning with &quot;Gorky Park&quot;!	2004-04-19
US	49726283	R2IWQIUFG6THQV	5852501980	41371229	Moscow Metro: A Guide	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Moskovskoe Metro fotoputevoditel'	There are many marvelous historic sights to see in Moscow, not the least of which is the means of getting to all of them, the magnificent Metro!  Not only is it a feat of engineering, but much of it qualifies as a work of art.  A little history and background:  at the turn of the 20th-century, an American firm, Werner &amp; Co., offered to build a subway system for Moscow.  Its proposal was rejected by the Tsar, which in a way turned out to be fortunate.  It remained for the fledgling Soviet Republic to design and construct a spectacular monument to &quot;Socialist technology, ingenuity, and imagination&quot;.  Work began in 1931 and the first lines opened to the public three years later.  Construction continued with little interruption even during the War years, when palatial underground stations served as shelter during the bombing.  New lines were added after the War, including a very deep section which was completed in 1953.  The Park Pobedy (Victory) station, at a depth of 86 meters, was designed to shelter Muscovites in the event of a nuclear attack.  Today, construction goes on, as existing lines are extended.  The first track for a new Light Metro is already in service.  Future projects include a &quot;mini-Metro&quot;.  Today the Metro serves 8 to 9 million passengers daily between the hours of 0600 to 0100.  It has 270 km of track with 165 stations and a 20 km long connecting ring-line.  During rush hour, train frequency is less than 90 seconds.  Due to the relatively long distances between stops, trains reach average speeds of 42 km/hr.  Impressive as all this is, it is the archetecture and art which makes the Moscow Metro a masterpiece.  The best designers and artisans contributed to its layout and decor.  Arched, domed, cathedral-like stations are ornamented with marble, granite, steel, stained glass, and tiling; illuminated by chandeliers and lighting of innovative design.  Sculpture, mosaics, and bas-relief pay homage to heroes of agriculture, industry, history, revolution and war, the arts, sciences, and politics.  This guidebook, published in 1989, is obviously a bit dated.  But it provides 215 glossy pages of color photographs of the Metro and various city sights it accesses.  For example, the section on the Arbatskaya station features the Gogol monument, House of Friendship With Foreign Countries, Museum of Oriental Art, 17th-century Church of St. Simeon the Stylites, Praha Restaurant, and Arbat Street pedestrian and shopping district. I love the Moscow Metro, and I've been looking for a good photo guidebook for a while.  This English translation is out of print.  But Amazon.De offers the German-language translation &quot;Die Moskauer Metro&quot;.	2004-01-26
US	49726283	R1DB4ARLR2X303	068981528X	566679905	The Three Little Wolves and the Big Bad Pig	Books	5	41	44	N	N	A wolf-friendly revision!	As a kid, I loved wolves and hated the Three Little Pigs.  So this funny, wolf-friendly revision of the creepy old classic really tickles me!  It begins with Mama Wolf sending her doting pups off into the wide world with the warning: \\"Beware of the Big Bad Pig!\\"  Keeping Mama's message in mind, the trio decides to build a strong house for protection from the boorish boar.  The three fluffy, friendly, refined little wolves are never named, but I like to call them Frasier, Niles, and Daphne.  The pig, a burly bully of a construction-worker, could be named Brutus.  Safe in the yard of their new brick home, the little wolves play a spirited game of squash.  Suddenly the swaggering swine shows up!  In a reversal of the original tale, the Big Bad Pig pounds on the wolves' door and demands to come in, while they quaver, \\"Not by the hair on our chinny-chin-chins!\\"  Then, using his construction hardware, the pig destroys the brick house, and the wolves flee with their fluffy tails between their legs!  As the three little wolves build progressively massive fortresses, the big bad pig employs heavy ground-breaking and demolitions equipment to smash them to rubble.  At last, the little wolves have no materials left with which to build, except -- ah, but I'm not going to give away the surprise!  Let's just say, the ending is a lot sweeter than the original.  No one gets boiled alive or devoured, and the the classic adversaries even become friends.  Kids and parents will love the beautiful artwork and the silliness of the story, although the ending might seem just a bit too saccharine after all the destruction and mayhem.	2004-01-25
US	49726283	R30TG9SZ5X0OD8	1841765988	747574220	Heroines of the Soviet Union 1941–45 (Elite)	Books	5	22	23	N	N	Five Gold Stars	Quality can be expected from Osprey, which is why I was eager to receive this book from Amazon.  It is about women combatants of the Great Patriotic War (WWll) who received the most prestigious title \\"Hero of the Soviet Union\\" (HSU).  Note, that while over a million women fought and many were otherwise decorated, only about 100 were awarded the Gold Star of the HSU.  This slim, 64-pg volume features a few examples from each of these categories: fighter-pilots, bomber aircrew, medics, machine gunners, snipers, scouts, tankists, partisans, and political officers.  There are other books, such as \\"Women in War and Resistance\\", which provide greater in-depth information.  But what sets this book apart, as with all Osprey publications, are the illustrations.  On every glossy page are wonderful, rare photographs.  And in the center are eight full-color plates of exquisitely detailed paintings by Christa Hook.  Unexpectedly, the text contains numerous errors.  Granted, most of these would be apparent only to readers familiar with the works of Kazimiera Cottam, Anne Noggle, and Reina Pennington.  But one gaffe which is absolutely appalling, considering Osprey's reputation for historical excellency, jumps right off the first page:  \\"[Stalin] wanted to showcase the advancement of women... His wife, Nadezhda Krupskaya, headed the women's section of the Communist Party.\\"  Yikes!  Krupskaya was, of course, the wife of Lenin, and outspokenly critical of her husband's successor.  Stalin's hatred for her was mutual, to the point where he once suggested ominously that a more compliant widow might be \\"appointed for Comrade Lenin\\"!  Moreover, Stalin contemptuously regarded women \\"like herring, only with ideas.\\"  Most importantly, though, the erronious text diminishes the extraordinary efforts of Marina Raskova to convince Stalin to allow the formation of her famous female aviation regiments.  Normally, such inaccuracies would cost a book a review star.  But the author, Henry Sakaida, earns the full five, just for being a hero in his own right!  Mr. Sakaida, a collector of Soviet medals, has a superb (and highly recommended) website.  Therein are the touching accounts of how he acquired and hand-returned -- to far away Uzbekistan and Buryatia Siberia! -- stolen Gold Stars to the families of two deceased HSUs.  The author has taken a Russian language course because of his interest in his topic.  He has journied to Ukraine expressly to visit HSU dive-bomber pilot Mariya Dolina, and to present flowers at the museum and monument to fighter-ACE Lilya Litvyak.  And he has attended the annual May Day (veterans' day) celebration in Kiev.  All these stories and photos are on his website, where his smile shows his pleasure at meeting the heroes of his book.	2004-01-20
US	49726283	R3GYQSD78A72V0	0595217826	825460324	Hwelte	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Thunderbird among the ACEs	Stalingrad 1941:  \\"Hwelte\\" opens with as brutally graphic a scene of carnage as the beginning of the film \\"Enemy at the Gates\\".  A procession of Russian civilians evacuating their embattled city has been attacked by a trio of Stukas.  Relentlessly the German planes strafe the helpless crowd -- until a single bold, blonde Soviet fighter pilot arrives to the rescue.  Flagstaff 1942:  US Army Air Transport pilot Chuck Hewitt visits his Navaho grandmother on the eve of his departure to war.  The old medicine woman wants to impart to her half-White grandson his Native heritage.  He will need the protection of his \\"hwelte\\" (Navaho word for a fortress or place of refuge).  During a sweat-lodge ceremony, Chuck receives a vision of the Thunderbird -- and soars with a mystical golden-haired woman above the Arizona canyons.  Over the USSR:  Chuck's LendLease B-25 becomes separated from its Russian escort and suddenly comes under Messersmitt fire.  Chuck is wounded and struggling to keep his stricken plane aloft, until a bold Soviet fighter arrives to scatter the Germans and lead him to a Russian airfield.  Just before he loses consciousness, Chuck sees a startling sight -- the wavy golden tresses of the woman pilot who has saved his life!  Stalingrad 1942:  Chuck finds himself the guest of a Soviet fighter regiment whose air and ground crews are all women.  In the course of his recovery, he begins to suspect that his heroine, Tamara, is the woman from his vision of the Thunderbird.  \\"Hwelte\\" is a unique novel which combines Native American shamanism with a little-known aspect of World War ll.  A lot of admiration and research went into this book, and it shows.  Tamara's regiment is based loosely on the historical 586th.  Her character and the deeds of her comrades are composited from actual female ACEs of that and other regiments.  Such historical figures as Lilya Litvyak, Olga Yamschikova, Raya Belyayeva, Tamara Pamyatnykh, and Katya Budanova are readily recognizable to readers familiar with their biographies.  The author's stated intent is to honor \\"these magnificent Russian women fighter pilots, and their sacrifices\\".  And \\"Hwelte\\" does that.  But it also occasionally suffers from the same political correctness as the film \\"Enemy at the Gates\\": heaven forbid it be accused of being \\"Red\\"!  Captain Iosef Zelenko provides the mandatory Western conscience.  This fictional officer does not remotely resemble Aleksandr Gridnev, the real-life CO of the 586th.  Zelenko is British-educated, anti-communist; a genteel host but a mean (and scary) drunk after imbibing too much vodka.  There are some other unwelcome Russian stereotypes, the most over-the-top being a tyrannical female commissar.  And the women ground crew -- mechanics, armorers, medics, guards -- are too often described in unflattering terms: \\"heavy-set\\", \\"stout\\", even \\"beefy\\".  (Given Chuck's constant griping about Stalingrad starvation-rations, one wonders how the regimental personnel managed to get so fat.)  McShane's female pilots fare better; they are all beautiful and likable.  Tamara's simple English made me smile; I could \\"hear\\" her accent!  Although \\"Hwelte\\" alternately pleases and annoys, overall I appreciate and recommend the book.  Thank you, spacibo, Roy McShane.  The Soviet female fighter ACEs do indeed deserve recognition and respect, and \\"Hwelte\\" gives them both.	2004-01-14
US	49726283	R2YUDD9NSPUGT5	0375507868	567954413	The Simple Sounds of Freedom : The True Story of the Only Soldier to Fight for Both America and the Soviet Union in World War II	Books	5	16	17	N	N	amerikanski tovarisch!	Several years ago I read parts of Joe Beyrle's memoir, translated into Russian for the gazette Sovietskaya Zhizn'.  \\"The Simple Sounds of Freedom\\" contains Joe's entire memoir and his exciting biography by Thomas Taylor.  Mr. Taylor, a veteran and historian of the 101st Airborne \\"Screaming Eagles\\", is the perfect choice to tell Joe's story.  Joe Beyrle was a small-town boy in 1942, gung-ho to prove the patriotism of his German-American family.  He joined the Screaming Eagle \\"Currahees\\", and made a couple of harrowing jumps into occupied France to aid the Resistance.  That was in preparation for the big day, D Day.  Alas, Joe was captured almost as he touched ground in Normandy and missed his chance to fight.  He survived beatings upon arrival at a POW camp, only to experience a most painful sight:  the bullet-riddled body of his beloved CO, Robert Wolverton, hanging from a tree.  Laughing guards were using the slain Currahee for bayonet practice.  Later escaping, Joe was caught, tortured, and interned in a notorious concentration camp, Stalag 111-C.  There he saw miserable Soviet prisoners, segregated, starved, freezing, worked to death.  There was little the American krieges could do for them, except throw some bread over their fence on occasion.  Again, Joe plotted escape, and finally succeeded, although two of his buddies perished in the attempt.  In his emaciated condition, trapped behind enemy lines, Joe hoped to be rescued by the advancing Red Army.  Meanwhile, at home in Muskegon, his family had received word of their son's \\"death in action\\" and were grieving his supposed loss.  These events are interwoven in the book with the overall campaign of the 101st Airborne.  Several chapters do not deal with Joe's story at all, but with his Currahee comrades' accomplishments during this crucial period of the War.  I found this did not distract in the least from the biography; in fact, made it all the more interesting.  And Thomas' macho style of prose quite enhanceshis patriotic pride in his Division!  It is not until the last third of the book that Joe meets the Soviet column.  Commanding the Sherman tank battalion was a Russian woman whose \\"five-syllable name was unpronouncable.\\"  Joe called her by her rank, \\"Major\\", and joined the infantry attached to her own tank.  His new comrades called him \\"Yo\\", and came to appreciate his skill in demolitions.  Major led from the front, which meant Joe got plenty of combat action.  He accompanied her all the way to the banks of the Oder, prepared to go through the meatgrinder at her side, into Berlin.  But then he was wounded, and had to be evacuated to Moscow.  Fifty years later, he would be decorated by Presidents Clinton and Yeltsin as the only American soldier to fight for both the USA and the USSR.  And he would think about Major and wonder how many of her battalion survived.  \\"Proshchai tovarisch!\\" he writes.  \\"If she is still alive, I'd go to Russia just to see her -- my major, my CO, my second Wolverton -- who was a woman.\\"  I enjoy books about World War ll, but this one touched me in a special way.  Today Joe is retired, a veteran of the fast-dwindling Greatest Generation, my parents' generation, who fought Hitler.  Ironically, the new generation of 101st Airborne Screaming Eagles fight on against another foe which faced the Soviet army... in Afghanistan.	2003-12-30
US	49726283	R1EJK90IK60BEN	0553801775	956860008	Last Citadel: A Novel of the Battle of Kursk	Books	4	15	18	N	N	flawed, but entertaining reading	Kursk 1943 -- Time and place of the German summer-offensive, codenamed \\"Citadel\\".  And the Berko clan has gone to war according to its Cossack tradition, as a family.  Father Dimitri and son Valentin rumble over the steppe in the cramped confines of their new T-34 tank.  Meanwhile, daughter Ekaterina prowls the night skies in her antiquated biplane, braving searchlights and flak to bomb Nazi targets.  Raiding Partisan bands strike fear in fascist and friend alike, ruthlessly recruiting men from suffering Ukrainian villages that can ill afford their loss.  \\"Last Citadel\\" is the third book in Robbins' trilogy of the Eastern Front of World War ll.  Like his previous novels, the latest presents the viewpoint from participants of both sides of the conflict, the Soviet and the Reich.  Like the earlier novels, this one is impressively researched.  The bibliography section looks remarkably like my own Amazon \\"Listmania!\\" pages; this should indicate my excitement upon receiving this book!  \\"Last Citadel\\" is a tighter read than its predecessors.  The narrative is much more flowing than the stilted, present-tense format of \\"The End of War\\"; and there are none of the distracting sexual vignettes of \\"War of the Rats\\".  The characterizations are original and quite good.  Dimitri, the Berko patriarch, is a Cossack from Tsarist times, contemptuous of the Bol'sheviks.  His son Valya is an ardent young Communist and also his father's superior officer.  Katya's martial motivation, whether flying her bomber or riding her Partisan steed, is simply to bring honor to her clan.  SS Panzergrenadier Luis de Vega, a Spanish Fascist, is driven by his lust for vengeance against the Reds.  And Col. Abram Breit, erstwhile Nazi spy, is secretly aiding the Soviets.  The plot builds toward the great tank battle and an emotional climax.  A sweeping saga, a rousing and entertaining read -- but marred, for me, by a few flaws.  Katya is one of the main protagonists, and her inclusion in the story is a welcome one.  But throughout, she is named \\"Witch\\".  The historical women's Night Bomber division was dubbed \\"Nacht Hexxen\\" or \\"night witches\\" by the Germans who suffered their predation.  But these women pilots never referred to themselves by the insulting epithet, nor did their male comrades ever call them that.  This is a minor irritation, to be sure, but a grating one.  It and a few other historical inaccuracies regarding Soviet aviation and tank operations cost the book a star, in my opinion.  It's still well worth reading, and recommended.	2003-12-30
US	49726283	R156FU5N1YNQ45	0743457161	616767174	Star Trek: The Next Generation: I.K.S. Gorkon: Honor Bound (Star Trek: Klingon Empire) (Bk. 2)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Qapla'  KRAD!	&quot;Honor Bound&quot; is the second book of the Klingon series by a terrific pro-novelist and fanfic author, Keith R. A. DeCandido.  This story concludes the adventure begun in Book One, &quot;A Good Day to Die&quot;.  The crew of IKS Gorkon and the fierce lupine San-Tarah have reached a mutual, honorable truce.  But Captain Klag's old nemesis, Admiral Talak, refuses to abide by it and declares war!  Now Klag must summon his comrades of the Order of the Bat'leth to join him in defending the honor of the Empire.  DeCandido continues the venerable fanfic tradition of evolving minor characters from the TV series.  Joining Klag, Kurak, Toq, and Kornan are Vekma, Rodek, and K'Vada.  Each of these had made one-time debuts on TNG and DS9, just enough to whet the fandom's appetite; and DeCandido has done a fine job developing them.  Unavoidably, there are brief appearances by Worf and Martok.  But these &quot;stars&quot; are overshadowed by the author's original creations, which are actually much more intriguing.  For one thing, the women have worthier roles in these books than in The Franchise.  KRAD knows the Klingon heart, and realizes Trek's archetypal appeal to fans of both genders.  Whereas most of the TV series' alien societies are male-dominant (often to the virtual exclusion of women), these Klingons and San-Tarah are represented by strong male and female warriors.  The fighting scenes are graphic and realistic enough to draw the reader right into the carnage.  DeCandido pays homage to John M. Ford's &quot;The Final Reflection&quot;, which he credits as the definitive novel about the Klingons.  To his own credit, KRAD's writing comes closer than any other pro-novelist's to the spirit of that masterpiece and to the passion of its derivative fanfic.  If you appreciate &quot;KomereXXX&quot;, &quot;Klinfires&quot;, and the &quot;Agonizer&quot;, you'll roar a resounding Qapla'! for &quot;IKS Gorkon&quot;.	2003-12-30
US	49726283	RJW03NN9LKB6R	0743457145	280008455	Star Trek: The Next Generation: I.K.S. Gorkon: A Good Day to Die: A Good Day to Die, Book One (Star Trek: Klingon Empire) (Bk. 1)	Books	5	5	8	N	N	kai kassai KRAD!	Keith R. A. DeCandido is a writer of excellent pro-novels and wonderful fan-fiction.  His new Star Trek series \\"IKS Gorkon\\" should be a huge hit with the klinfandom.  Here is epic Klingon adventure written in the fanfic tradition.  I say this with the sincerest praise for his work.  DeCandido \\"gets it\\".  He knows the Klingon heart.  His writing perfectly captures the archetypal appeal of this alien race for the legions of Trek fans who identify with it.  You know this author has true Klingon spirit when you read his dedication to Gene L. Coon, John Colicos, and John M. Ford.  Qapla' KRAD!  Populating the warcruiser IKS Gorkon are Klingons we met in episodes of TNG and DS9, developed far beyond their one-shot supporting roles.  We catch up with Kornan, Leskit, Kurak, and Toq, who have somehow all ended up on Klag's crew.  And as good as these characters are, DeCandido's own creations, such as Dr. B'Oraq and Leader Wol, are even better!  KRAD realizes that there are male and female Klingons, just as there are fans of both genders.  And he writes characters interchangeably, without stereotypes.  There's plenty of action and violence and even a little sex for a klinfan's passion.  In \\"A Good Day to Die\\", the first novel of the series, the Empire is searching for new inhabited worlds to conquer.  The crew discovers a lupine species, the Children of San-Tarah, whose pure warrior culture earns its respect and admiration.  A battle to the death seems inevitable, as these fierce canids will never surrender to the Empire.  So Klag and his San-Tarah counterpart conceive of an honorable alternative: a sequence of contests will determine the planet's fate.  The story continues in Book Two of the series, \\"Honor Bound\\".  Order both together, and hope for more books to come in this exciting series!	2003-12-30
US	49726283	R2V3I9QUNXOB7X	1888033002	724656127	War songs: Metaphors in clay and poetry from the Vietnam experience	Books	5	116	119	N	N	from horror to healing	One of the most gruesome stories to emerge from the present Chechen war concerns a female sniper captured by Russian Federal forces.  The sniper, it turned out, was not a Chechen nor even an Islamist, but a Russian from St. Petersburg.  Her skill had proven inadequate for an Olympic team position, so she was selling it as a mercenary, shooting at her own countrymen.  Her captors' commander, an ethnic Kazakh, sentenced her to the traditional fate for a traitor on his native steppe, to be drawn between horses.  Since no horses were available, tanks would substitute...  I remember thinking how savage and alien a culture it must take to condone such a grotesque vengeance.<br />Then I read poem Number 16 of Grady Harp's &quot;War Songs&quot; about a similarly brutal vengeance by US Marines.  And I realized the ugly truth; it does indeed take a savage and alien culture -- the Culture of War.<br />This slim volume contains twenty poems written by a young medical doctor during his tour with the USMC in Vietnam.  Twenty poems full of haunting nightmare imagery; of brutality, yes, for example Number 16.  And of sorrow and regret and loss.  And of desperate compassion, such as leaving an IV drip in a dead soldier's arm, so that his badly wounded comrade won't give up hope before the morning helicopter evac. With poetry, Dr. Harp maintained his sanity in the insanity of war.  For twenty years afterward, he and a generation of veterans dealt in their individual, often solitary ways with the memories and scars.  With the ceramic talent of Stephen Freedman, Dr. Harp reveals his personal Vietnam experience in the seemingly incongruous form of an art exhibit.  The black and white photos of the smooth clay vessels counter yet complement the lurid imagery of the verses inscribed on them.  Amazingly, the broken poetry and unbroken pottery together create a metaphor for healing.	2003-12-04
US	49726283	R28KAYVCJIL787	0767900596	949485021	Earth Odyssey: Around the World in Search of Our Environmental Future	Books	5	7	9	N	N	Our environmental crisis	Investigative reporter Mark Hertsgaard spent six years traveling around the world, gathering material for this book.  This is not strictly a scientific treatise (although he conducted extensive research into his topics).  Rather, he reports through the eyes of the people who live in the environmentally damaged places he visited.  The theme of the book is how technology has both benefitted and harmed the planet and its inhabitants, and how greed continues to threaten our existence.  His accounts of wanton destruction of nature in the 19th century make the reader gasp with dismay over the short-sightedness of our predecessors: the damming of a mighty river and its magnificent waterfall; the murder of the largest, oldest sequoia on earth.  (Two of the examples which brought me to tears.)  The horror is:  the destruction, the contamination, and waste are still happening.  And not only at the hands of totalitarian regimes or ignorant third-world peasants, but due to the callousness of greedy American corporations and government lobbies.  The conclusions of Chapter Three, &quot;The Irrisistable Automobile&quot;, will come as no surprise to most American readers, although the images of the perpetually gridlocked traffic-jams of fume-choked Asian cities astonished even this rider of Southern California freeways.  Statistics of the predicted explosion in automobile sales world wide are especially ominous.  This book was published in 1999 and exposes the hypocrisy of the Clinton administration in paying lip service to environmental issues while simultaneously caving to the demands of the powerful fossil fuel lobby.  If Chapter Three is gloomy, Chapter Four, &quot;To the Nuclear Lighthouse&quot;, is utterly terrifying.  The account of Hertsgaard's visits to the most blighted areas of the former USSR is preceeded by a dismal, just recently uncensored history of the Soviets' worst nuclear disasters.  While everyone knows about Chernobyl, few people knew about the radiating of the Siberian region of Chelyabinsk.  Few, that is, other than the hapless residents who've been suffering its effects for years.  With the aid of his translator, Russian author and photographer Vlad Tamarov, Hertsgaard conducted a relentless expose' of the deliberate coverups of &quot;incidents&quot; at nuke plants and shipping lanes, which irreversibly poisoned crops, fisheries, and even the water table.  Even more worrisome than the damage already done are Hertsgaard's reports of poorly inventoried and practically unguarded nuclear stockpiles in volatile republics such as Kazakhstan.  The American reader who attributes Soviet environmental crimes to Communist cruelty is in for an ugly shock -- Hertsgaard then documents identical coverups by our own government, of similar &quot;incidents&quot; on our own soil!  From Russia, the author journeyed to China and Africa to report on overpopulation and its adverse effects on nature, health, and standards of living.  The bleak narrative ends on a hopeful note: &quot;Sustainable Development and the Triumph of Capitalism&quot;.  Since the publication of &quot;Earth Odyssey&quot;, the Bush administration has all but declared war on the environment, so even that fleeting hope now appears elusive.	2003-11-16
US	49726283	R1R8LP5PI29CBQ	0553584995	727479276	Nine Layers of Sky	Books	5	3	4	N	N	close to perfect	Sometimes a science-fiction novel comes along which I'd almost swear was written especially for me!  Lisa Mason's &quot;The Summer of Love&quot; is one such novel.  &quot;Nine Layers of Sky&quot; is another.  The setting, the characters, the quest -- all strike such a chord; it's even archetypal.  It's the beginning of the 21st century and the Soviet Union dissolved a decade ago.  Along with it, the career and dreams of astrophysicist Elena Irinovna.  From launching rockets to washing floors; she can only dream of emigrating to Canada. To realize this dream will take money, so Elena is forced into smuggling across the Kazakhstan border.  During one harrowing crossing, she discovers an unidentifiable spherical artifact in the snow, apparently stolen from a strange dead man.  The object is bewildering, because it is warm.  Out of scientific curiosity, she keeps it, not knowing that it is already being pursued by people who will kill to reclaim it.  And by another who will protect her at all cost.  Ilya Murom'ets is a legendary Slavic hero, one of the original bogatyri, now an immortal weary of living.  For 800 years, he has wondered why he cannot die, even fatally wounded in battle.  Why do the rusalki, those fey females who inhabit Russian woods and waters, always find him and heal him before he can find his release in death?  His only release these days comes from vodka, and his heroin addiction acquired during the Afghanistan War.  No one believes in heroes or rusalki any more.  Reduced to working as a mercenary, Ilya has been hired by mysterious, not quite human strangers to retrieve the missing artifact.  He locates Elena in time to save her from a rusalka; then they find that death seems to follow the artifact.  And Ilya remembers, as if in a dream, where he has seen this artifact before. Seventy years ago, he was paid to kill a renegade scientist who had created a technology to open a portal to another realm.  That realm, B'elovod'e, is a parallel Russia, one in which the perfect Soviet utopia has been accomplished.  It is a Russia in which citizens are comrades and rusalki and other mythical creatures inhabit the wild places.  But there is a dark secret which the citizens of B'elovod'e do not know -- their utopia exists by stealing the dreams of the real Russia.  Mechvori (dream-thieves) are the alternate Russia's counterpart of the KGB, feared by the populace and military alike.  The problem is: as the dreams of the real Russians are disappearing, their country and lives become more depressing and hopeless.  And as the artifact opens rifts between the worlds, it brings devastation and panic to B'elovod'e.  It also allows Ilya's ancient Islamic nemesis, also an immortal, to cross between the realms in hopes of radicalizing the nomadic horse tribes of B'elovod'e.  As the mystery which has united them unfolds, Elena and Ilya together embark on the quest to save their world.  Pursued by Mechvori, rusalki, and the horsemen of the Golden Warrior, they discover, in eachother, something worth dying for.  And ultimately, a dream worth living for.  I enjoyed every moment of this delicious read, and was sorry to reach the end, which seemed to be just a little rushed.  I think I'm in love myself... with Elena and Ilya and Russia and the writing of Liz Williams!  I'm definitely going to read her other novels.	2003-11-16
US	49726283	R38L7X0GDIFUN4	0809433729	463960936	The Soviet Air Force at War: The Epic of Flight	Books	5	0	1	N	N	A handsome 20-year-old	This is one of the volumes of Time-Life's splendid series \\"Epic of Flight\\".  Like all of Time-Life's publications, the book itself is handsome and inviting.  It features an attractive, embossed cover, quality paper, and scores of illustrations.  Some are in color: reproductions of patriotic (\\"propaganda\\") posters, detailed paintings of various aircraft.  Most are black-and-white photos spanning a period of one hundred years.  The text covers the history of Russian aviation, from Tsarist times to the height of the Cold War.  In 1884, Aleksandr Mozhaiski built a steam-engine monoplane with a wingspan of 40 feet.  Although it failed to fly on its own -- it glided to a safe landing -- its publicized exhibition launched the empire's passion for flight.  Soon elite aero clubs opened in St. Petersburg, Kiev, and Moscow, attracting designers and builders of all nationalities. Nikolai Zhukovski, Andrei Tupolev, and Igor Sikorski were three whose names became famous.  Sikorski is best known for his invention of the helicopter, but he also designed sophisticated airplanes such as the four-engine Russki Vityaz \\"Grand\\" and the enormous Ilya Muromets biplane.  The Tsar remained unconvinced of the tactical value of aviation, but his military commanders were enthusiastic.  By 1914, Russia's fledgling air force boasted 244 aircraft, more than any other nation.  During the first World War and subsequent Civil War, Russian pilots improved their lagging combat skills but little.  Although air power played a part in the Revolution, its impact was negligible.  However, the Bol'sheviks were impressed by their Red Falcons' victories.  And under Communism, Soviet flight really \\"took off\\".  Aero clubs sprang up everywhere, sponsored by schools, factories, and collective farms, attracting aspiring young technicians and pilots of both sexes.  Soviet fliers such as Valeriy Chkalov, Valentina Grizodubova, and Marina Raskova broke world records for long-distance flights.  During the Spanish CivilWar, Soviet fighters fought the fascist forces.  Lithuanian Yakov Smushkevich and Ukrainian Pavel Rychagov, under fanciful noms de guerre, became popular \\"Spanish\\" ACEs.  Still, Stalin was reluctant to improve the Red Air Force, and his infamous purges decimated it of top leadership and warfighters.  On June 22, 1941, its mediocrity proved no match for Hitler's Operation Barbarossa; and after the lightening Lufftwaffe onslaught, more than 2,500 Soviet planes had been destroyed.  Galvanized into belated action, the Motherland began recruiting thousands of young volunteers from the aero clubs, sending their antiquated Polikarpov biplanes to the front lines as improvised night bombers.  One renowned regiment, comprised of teenage girls, was dubbed by the Germans \\"Nacht Hexxen\\", or \\"night witches\\".  Meanwhile, in a massive effort, factories were relocated in their entireties to relative safety in the Urals.  Production was accelerated to rush Yakovlev, Ilyushin, Lavochkin, and Petlyakov warplanes to young men and women receiving hurried conversion training.  The Allies assisted; the Free French dispatched a regiment of fighter pilots and US LendLease supplied Airocobras and C-47's.  It took over a year for the USSR to gain air superiority, but the Red Air Force definitively proved its worth during World War ll.  Many Patriotic War veterans later became test pilots for the next generation of supersonic jet planes.  One such was Olga Yamschikova, the top-scoring female ACE with 17 kills.  In the years which followed, the USSR would produce superior aircraft and pilots, but would never catch up, much less overtake its main Western rival.  \\"The Soviet Air Force at War\\", published in 1983, concludes at the peak of Soviet power during the Cold War.  There is no coverage of the Afghanistan War or of the decline of the air force following the dissolution of the Union.  Therefore, the book is outdated.  But not obsolete -- it remains one of the treasured volumes of my personallibrary.	2003-11-15
US	49726283	R1JXIJVR6GUEDE	0374103836	396161333	The Eagle's Shadow: Why America Fascinates And Infuriates The World	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Listening to the rest of the world	Author Hertsgaard, in his odyssey around the world, recorded impressions of the ordinary citizens he met.  Some of these foreigner's perceptions of the US will enfuriate Americans, others will fascinate.  But all of them make clear the essential point of this book: that we need to pay attention to the rest of the inhabitants of this planet.  America, notes Hertsgaard, is their shining symbol of freedom, and equally their symbol of wealth and glamor, gluttony and selfishness.  Although the American people are admired and envied, our leadership is often scorned and feared.  Let the voices of Hertsgaard's correspondents explain the causes of these contradictions.  Then reflect upon their concerns.  Hertsgaard's own voice in &quot;The Eagle's Shadow&quot; shows some honest self-examination and critique of American policy both foreign and domestic.  In the xenophobia and pseudo-patriotic hysteria of today's post-911 political climate, there are those who would label any criticism &quot;unAmerican&quot; or even &quot;treasonous&quot;.  The author confronts the creeping Sovietization of American media and politics which seek to demonize dissent.  And he explodes the myth of the &quot;liberal&quot; press.  Although he skewers the hypocrisy of both major Parties, it is the current administration which comes most under scrutiny.  Chapter Eight, &quot;The Tragedy of American Democracy&quot; ought to be read by every American citizen.  For those who are interested in this book, I also recommend Cooley's &quot;Unholy Wars&quot;.	2003-11-15
US	49726283	R31G9DI1HH2KWS	015500168X	77055897	The Origins and Development of the English Language	Books	5	30	35	N	N	educational, fascinating, and fun!	\\"sklon'yat'... vo vs'ekh pad'ezhakh\\" -- \\"to decline (someone) in all the cases\\", so the Russian idiom goes.  To discuss someone at length.  Few speakers of modern English would make much sense of that idiom.  Yet English was once nearly as inflected as Russian, having in common five of that language's six noun cases: the Nominative, Accusative, Genitive, Dative, and Instrumental, each with corresponding pronominal and adjectival declension.  Old English nouns had gender, too, and not just masculine and feminine as in the \\"Romance\\" (Italic) Languages, but, like Russian, the neuter as well.  English verbs once required more complex conjugation, and the subjunctive was used far more extensively than today.  Old English structurally resembled modern European languages, and until comparatively recently, even had formal and informal second-person address.  The reason for these similarities?  Six modern language groups all descended from a common ancestor, Indo-European.  They include Indo-Iranian (Farsi, Hindi, Romani), Balto-Slavic (Lithuanian, Russian, Polish), Celtic (Gaelic, Cornish, Welsh), Italic (French, Spanish, Roumanian), Germanic (German, Icelandic, Norwegian), and Hellenic (Greek).  English is a sub-group of the Germanic branch.  This book is a fascinating technical study of how English developed and changed over the centuries and was influenced by various languages and regional dialects.  From Chaucer to Shakespeare to Melville to present, you'll see how English has become simplified yet enriched.  Learn the reasons for the varying pronunciations of our vowel combinations and consonant clusters that drive ESL students nuts!  This is a scholarly study.  But you don't have to be a linguist to enjoy the text.  Even the most etymologically \\"challenged\\" will easily see some distinctive similarities between Old and modern English and other Indo-European languages.  BTW, that Russian idiom?  We English speakers would discuss someone \\"every which way\\".	2003-11-07
US	49726283	RHB9YW1D0300	0963457810	524965923	Cobras over the Tundra	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Kobri nad tundroi	The story of the LendLease aircraft program, this book has a unique dual-language format.  The first half of the book consists of text, in both English and Russian (on opposite-facing pages). I have a personal interest in this history of the Alaska-Siberia (ALSIB) Ferrying Route, since my mother had served as a civilian air-traffic controller for the program. The second half of the book contains numerous black-and-white photos, with dual language captions, of American and Soviet pilots and personnel at Fairbanks (Ladd Field) and Nome.  I  hoped to be surprised by a glimpse of my Mom as a beautiful young woman!  (Alas, that didn't happen.)  In 1999, when I worked for the &quot;World War ll Through Russian Eyes&quot; Exhibit, I met a Russian man whose parents had been ferry pilots for the ALSIB.  It was a poignant moment for both of us, to realize that his parents and my mother had likely met on base!  And poignant, for me, are the photos in this book of ALSIB personnel -- our parents' colleagues -- at work, or playing music and dancing during off-duty hours!  Although not exposed to combat, a ferry pilot's duty was dangerous.  Largely unknown to most Americans and Russians were the losses.  My aquaintance related to me a tale of tragedy over the tundra.  His father, flying a C-47 (Li-2), received the final transmissions from a pair of accompanying Airacobras.  Caught in a sudden blizzard, their wings had iced up and they could no longer maintain altitude. The two LendLease warplanes, so precious to the Allied cause, were last seen descending into the inhospitable wilderness. &quot;Cobras Over the Tundra&quot; verifies that this was not an isolated incident.  Sixty-eight planes were lost over Alaska, forty-one over Siberia. The book pays tribute to the dozens of courageous aviators who simply disappeared in the treacherous storms over the tundra, taiga, and sea routes.  &quot;They sacrificed to the altar of the Great Victory the most priceless thing -- life.&quot;	2003-08-24
US	49726283	R30Y5RFN2496X2	0525171924	637519378	Ordeal	Books	5	3	5	N	N	World War ll drama	The famed Belorussian writer Vasily Bykov has been awarded the title of Master of Soviet Literature.  Michael Glenny,  translator of Solzhenitsyn, gives further praise: \\"From the start it is clear that Bykov is a considerable master of both language and form.\\"  The Ordeal, formerly published in Noviy Mir as Sotnikov, is a powerful novel, considered one of the most realistic pictures of the Great Patriotic War to emerge from the USSR.  Two Partisans, Ribak and Sotnikov, are captured by local politsai (as Belorussian collaborators with the occupying German army were called).  Soknikov is badly wounded.  After enduring brutal interrogation, they are imprisoned along with a village woman who had reluctantly sheltered them, an old man, and a Jewish girl.  As it becomes clear that they are all to be executed, the captives display individual courage, despair, and cowardice. There is no happy ending, but Bykov's writing is a moving tribute to the higher power of the human spirit. Vasily Bykov, who died earlier this year, was deservedly lauded for his novels, which also include \\"Pack of Wolves\\" and \\"Sign of Misfortune\\".  Ironically, his first published story, \\"The Dead Feel no Pain\\" had been criticized in 1966 by Soviet generals for \\"slandering\\" the Red Army.	2003-08-23
US	49726283	R22JD8SE37390A	0889651299	546649852	Disney & the Bible: A Scriptural Critique of a Media Conglomerate.	Books	2	10	16	N	N	Looney Tunes	The Lunatic Religious Fringe is really Out There, folks!  I'm accustomed to their ubiquitous presence outside Star Trek conventions, handing out tracts to warn costumed Klingons of the unScripturality of sci-fi/fantasy.  \\"Disney and the Bible\\" was being peddled by earnest evangelists outside the recent International Comic Con, along with tracts about gay Tinkiwinkies, satanic Anime, and pagan Potter.  After skimming through the book, I was intrigued enough to buy it.  Who knew that Walt Disney was a left-leaning Satanist out to destroy American Values, that Tinkerbell is a sex-maniac, Scar the Lion a homosexual, and that witchcraft is glorified in Disney cartoons?  Well... in actuality, Disney was a leading contributor of suspected Hollywood commies' names to McCarthy's Blacklist.  And Disney witches are all depicted as the stereotypical evil, ugly hags right out of Puritan pulpits.  As for the deviant fairies and anthropomorphic animals, and supposed subliminal messages, erections, and phalluses, these are all addressed with righteous outrage.  There's plenty of denouncement of the positive portrayals of nonChristian religion in Disney animation.  Why indeed, should children be exposed to Hindu Mowgli, Buddhist Mulan, Muslim Aladdin, and other characters' heathen faiths?  Somehow Robin Hood's pious Christian badger, Friar Tuck, gets overlooked in the indignant ardor.  I have to wonder, though, why these zealots so strongly condemn the religious imagery of the Lion King, when so many Christians love Divine Aslan of the \\"Narnia\\" fairytales?  And would it really have improved the story of Pocahontas to depict her coerced conversion to Christianity, subsequent virtual slavery in white man's society, and untimely death from smallpox?  These Fundamentalist activists apparently think so!  Parts of this book are unintentionally hilarious.  For example, the allegation is made that \\"Fantasia\\", so popular with the hippie generation, must have been produced by a Disney staff high on drugs.  \\"Yes, it is true'\\" one animator is quoted in seeming verification of the charge, \\"I myself was addicted to Ex-Lax and Feenamint!\\"  At other times the book gets bogged down with humorless reproach from the likes of \\"reverends\\" Wildmon and Kennedy, the Assemblies of God, and the Southern Baptist Convention.  One would think these \\"spiritual leaders\\" would have more urgent Christian callings than attacking animation.  Overall, what seems most evident about this expose' is that obsessed religious fanatics can and do find Satan wherever they look for him.	2003-07-24
US	49726283	R1W21KNF3Q1B8A	0671784943	666973728	The Left Hand of Destiny, Book 2 (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	a glimpse of the reflection	\\"The Left Hand of Destiny\\" Book Two continues the epic saga from Book One.  A brilliant but utterly mad geneticist from Martok's past has revived a monstrous threat from the Klingon homeworld's own past.  And Martok, the reluctant Chancellor, heeding omens from the ancient Goddess of Destiny, is the only hope for his Empire's survival.  What is the mystery which Destiny holds in Her left hand?  Martok realizes that in accepting it, he will save his people but endure heartbreaking sacrifice...<BR>This is a Klingon novel, set wholly in the Empire, with very few Federation characters.  As such, it will likely appeal mainly to that Trek audience known as the klinfandom.  And inevitably, it must be compared to John M. Ford's \\"The Final Reflection\\", which has provided for nigh two decades the template upon which the klinfandom is structured.  Klinfans who read \\"The Left Hand of Destiny\\" will take delight in the numerous concepts derived from Ford's definitive work, including Klingon-alien genetic fusions, Battle Language, kuve, and a smattering of vocabulary straight from Ford's own klingonaase, including \\"kai\\"!  Admirers of Ford (and the FASA and fanfic materials inspired by his books) will notice much in \\"The Left Hand of Destiny\\" which is remarkably familiar, and might wonder, as do I, why no mention is made of him in the authors' lengthy list of credits.  (It is a glaring omission.)  This is not to say that \\"The Left Hand of Destiny\\" is based on \\"The Final Reflection\\"; it is not.  Like that novel, this saga has developed the Klingon history, culture, and characters beyond their definition by the Trek Franchise to date.  But while \\"The Final Reflection\\" is an intricate tale of intrigue, this is pure rollicking adventure, with comic-relief in the form of a Ferengi sidekick (with no lobes for business).  I thoroughly enjoyed the fighting action-scenes.  They smack of realism suggesting the authors' familiarity with hand-to-hand combat.  Also greatly appreciated are the prominant female roles.  Sirella is vastly improved from the petulant and indulged shrew seen on DS9.  The insanely obsessed Gothmara is not only a frightening fictional villainess; she evokes a certain reallife terrorist mastermind who poses heinous threat to our own world.	2003-07-07
US	49726283	RRF05BLUK17Q7	0671784935	465969028	The Left Hand of Destiny, Book 1 (Star Trek: Deep Space Nine)	Books	4	9	10	N	N	Klinfans will like it!	It was with great anticipation but subdued expectations that I opened this book.  From &quot;Kahless&quot; to the &quot;Day of Honor&quot; series, Pocket's occasional Klingon-themed novels have been largely disappointing.  But &quot;The Left Hand of Destiny&quot; pleasantly surprised me!  Not since &quot;The Final Reflection&quot; has there been such an impressive, truly KLINGON story, in which the reader actually feels immersed in that alien world.  The authors were apparently permitted freer rein to develop the established Trek Klingon culture and characters for this dual-book series, even to the point of killing off one of them!  Supporting characters from the TV series, such as Martok, the Kahless clone, and Alexander Rozhenko, get a chance to grow and shine.  Federation favorites Worf and Ezri Dax get supporting roles, but also develop beyond their characterizations in canon.  In my opinion the most favorably changed character is that of Martok's Mistress, Sirella.  In her single DS9 appearance, Sirella was a petulant shrew who amused herself by inflicting passive-aggressive torment on her mate, whether by denying him her bed or &quot;accidentally&quot; allowing his favorite targh to escape.  With little authority in Martok's House except over subordinate female members, she nagged her husband like a fishwife and bullied Jadzia Dax like a petty tinplated tyrant.  She was seemingly lacking in Klingon honor (in attempting to impress Dax with her falsified &quot;royal&quot; pedigree), fighting-skill (in assaulting Dax with a knife and quickly finding herself disarmed and decked by the staggering-drunk Trill), or respect (in whining that Dax had attacked *her*)!  But here, in &quot;The Left Hand of Destiny&quot;, Sirella is transformed into a strong, even admirable character.  In fact, the authors have taken extra care to imbue her with worthy traits. At first I found this departure from canonic continuity jarring, but I soon found myself appreciating this improvedSirella!  Abducted from her guilded cage within the Chancellor's House, the Mistress emerges as a warrior in her own right.  My gratitude to the authors for elevating the abysmal position of the Klingon Housewife!  As Martok and his allies strike forth to rescue Sirella and avenge their fallen House, they swiftly realize they are embroiled in a heinous plot to conquer the entire Empire.  And an epic saga unfolds which will take the heroes and the reader from the Imperial City to the Borath Monastery to the Cold of Space.  Martok's challenge is as much an internal struggle with his own leadership capability as with his formidable foe.  To prevail, he will need to trust in his sword arm, the power of Legend, and the aid of an ancient undefeated Goddess.  I recommend purchasing this novel, together with its sequel, &quot;The Left Hand of Destiny&quot; Book Two.  You won't want to wait overlong for the riveting conclusion.	2003-07-07
US	49726283	R3GS1X5RUWFWZ	0399238530	142279423	The Train They Call the City of New Orleans	Books	5	15	15	N	N	Not just for kids!	If you love the song, made famous by Arlo Guthrie, you probably like trains.  If you like trains, this book is sure to delight you!  It's a wonderful tribute to the classic folksong! Steve Goodman composed \\"The City of New Orleans\\" while riding the Illinois Central, while observing his fellow passengers and the passing landscape.  Who can forget the warm images he recounted: of the old men playing cards, the young mother nursing her baby, the passengers being lulled to sleep by the rhythm of the rails?  \\"Everything in this song actually happened,\\" Goodman once said; \\"I'm no good at fiction.\\"  Michael McCurdy's illustrations, a combination of woodcuts and watercolors, must be seen and savored!  The book is aimed toward children, and kids are certain to enjoy it. But I believe it will evoke stronger emotions in baby-boomers who remember the song and how it actually felt to \\"be gone 500 miles when the day is done\\".	2003-06-02
US	49726283	RQQ4LNOZ1RIA9	0873647246	521940232	Predator Training: The Inner Beast Of San Soo	Books	5	9	10	N	N	your Tiger and Dragon within	Imagine the explosive power of a predatory beast!  A lioness, say, or a cheetah or wolf.  It has to swiftly take down its prey, often larger than itself, usually on the run.  It instinctively knows its prey's vulnerable points and just where and how to strike them.  Kung Fu San Soo is a predatory fighting system with no sporting application.  There are no tournaments or &quot;sparring&quot;, just devastating self-defense.  It won't turn you into a predator, but it can give you the the instinctive reactions and capabilities of one!  Like the tiger, the San Soo fighter takes down and destroys his opponant in three to seven seconds.  I've had Master Jones' book for a long time, and enjoy reading it for his witty writing and sound technique.  But a recent event compels me to share it with others:  several months ago, while home alone, I experienced a &quot;home invasion&quot;.  The young tweeker smashed through our security screen-door, yelling and cursing in an attempt to intimidate his victim.  Boy, did he ever choose the wrong one!  Two principles of San Soo, as instructed by Master Jones, are never let an opponant intimidate you or get his hands on you.  Never be the prey!  Become the Predator!  In an instant, I had lunged off the couch and attacked him, roaring like a lioness.  How dare he break into my living room and terrorize my cats!  He screamed and fled in a panic.  I chased him out of the house and to the end of the driveway, roaring so loudly I tore my vocal chords.  My invader probably never realized his pursuer was a 50-year-old woman; what he perceived was a TIGER coming at him!  This is how San Soo can unleash your own Inner Beast when you most need protection.  In many cases, as in this one, you may not even have to fight; your predatory ferocity might be enough.  But do understand that the fighting techniques are brutal, and wreak swift &quot;carnivorous&quot; carnage.  As Master Jones writes: better to him than to you!  This was not the only time SanSoo has prevented me from being hurt -- maybe this time it even saved my life!  Obviously no book can provide the skill obtained by practice.  But &quot;The Inner Beast of San Soo&quot; might convince you to give predator training a &quot;fighting chance&quot;!	2003-02-25
US	49726283	R2MW306A1H7ZOD	0030830451	781346492	Operation Overflight: The U-2 Spy Pilot Tells His Story for The First Time	Books	5	19	19	N	N	Riveting memoir and prison diary	On 1-May, 1960, CIA U-2 pilot Francis Gary Powers was shot down over the USSR and spent two years in a Soviet prison.  Eighteen years later, he was permitted to publish his own story.  The two excellent preceeding reviews cover the crucial historical and political aspect of the U-2 story -- particularly how Mr. Powers was made a scapegoat for the embarassment of the US.  I highly recommend this memoir of a courageous and loyal American.  I also recommend it for Mr. Powers' personal story, told engagingly in his own unassuming but elegant words.  How he survived being downed by a SAM, how he strove to manipulate his interrogation to protect American secrets.  How he carried himself at his showcase espionage trial, and how he endured his incarceration. Not too surprisingly, he narrates with less rancor for his Soviet captors than for his own US government. And the American press, which reviled him as a coward and accused him of treaon. And, as if he didn't have enough hardship, his faithless, alcoholic wife, who all but abandoned him!  It was only through the efforts of his father that he obtained his early release. Ironically, his treatment on return home was much crueler than anything he experienced in Russia. But throughout his ordeal, Gary Powers' steadfast devotion to his country never wavered. I found his memoir inspirational and riveting. I've seen the wreckage of his U-2 spy plane, still on exhibit in the \\"Cold War\\" area of the Moscow Central Armed Forces Museum.  And I've made the drive to Vladimir, location of the prison in which he kept his diary. I believe \\"Operation Overflight\\" is going to be released in paperback soon, after years out of print.  If so, I hope it will include more of the technical and personal information which was too sensitive for publication in 1970.	2003-02-01
US	49726283	R3SMG8QXPVZYQ1	1586480448	447389178	Chienne de Guerre: A Woman Reporter Behind the Lines of the War in Chechnya	Books	3	20	30	N	N	a human tragedy	This is another of those works whose content takes on new significance after Sept. 11, 2001.  Prior to those events, Western public opinion of Moscow's handling of Chechnya was overwhelmingly critical.  The Chechen conflict was usually described as a \\"dirty war\\".  In order to garner international sympathy for the plight of Chechen civilians caught between Islamist extremists and Russian Federal forces, Ms. Nivat clandestinely infiltrated the battlezone.  She risked arrest by the Russians, kidnap and torture by the rebels, and death in the crossfire as she conducted her interviews with the populace.  Any humane reader will grieve for the suffering of the innocents.  But like many antiwar treatices, \\"Chienne de Guerre\\" wears its heart on its sleeve and conveniently neglects to tell the whole story:  After having won de-facto autonomy, Chechnya rapidly became a region of abysmal poverty and lawlessness.  Its leadership, divided by power-struggles between warlords and religious extremists, descended into anarchy.  In a close parallel with Afghanistan, Wahhabists gained control.  Eventually, these \\"rebels\\" began making incursions into neighboring Russian republics.  Rebel-occupied Daghestan appealed to Moscow for assistance.  Daghestanis, although Muslim, vehemently reject the Wahhabi sect of Chechen Islamists.  After Russian Federal troops had freed one Daghestani town, its residents held a meeting to determine the fate of the Wahhabi mosque the Chechens had erected there.  The mayor favored razing it, but several townsmen suggested converting it into a strip-club -- \\"since that would disgrace it more\\".  This anecdote demonstrates the depth of Daghestani hatred.  It was the Chechen invasion of Daghestan, followed by a series of terrorist bombings in Moscow, which provoked the second armed response.  Like their Taliban counterparts, Chechen Wahhabist rebels have been unaverse to using noncombatants as human shields, and callously exploit civilian casualties for propaganda.  This willingness to sacrifice innocent lives did not endear the rebels to the populace whose \\"cause\\" they were ostensibly defending.  Enter the naively pro-Chechen Anne Nivat.  Even she distrusted the motives of the rebels, although at the time their alliance with al-Qaeda was still generally unknown.  Since 9-11, Chechen complicity in international terrorism has been widely exposed, and all pretense on the part of rebel mujahedin abandoned.  Chechen websites today proudly boast allegiance to bin Laden, post videotaped torture and executions, and make threats against Russian, American, and Israeli targets.  Mujahedin leaders defiantly reject any political or diplomatic reconciliation: the only solution they advocate is jihad.  Violent terrorist acts, such as the bombing of a Daghestani Veterans Day parade and the raid on a Moscow theater have become increasingly commonplace.  Likewise, Chechen-run terrorist training camps and Chechen/al-Qaeda terrorist plots have been uncovered in France, Pakestan, and Afghanistan.  Foreign-born Wahhabists now openly direct the Chechen rebel leadership.  Talib influence was unmistakable during the Moscow theater siege, in which numerous burka-clad, explosives-wired female terrorists, the so-called \\"Black Widows\\", participated.  Under Wahhabism, the only way for women to obtain Paradise (and possibly reunite with fallen husbands) is by martyrdom in jihad.  President Bush no longer criticizes Putin's handling of Chechnya, but supports the Russian War on Terrorism.  The US military, on the other hand, has never criticized.  For several years, the American military has closely observed the fighting in Grozniy, and has been practicing urban warfare in deserted bases throughout California.  Our military has acknowledged that similar US urban action could result in the same discouraging casualty rate experienced by the Russians -- and with a similar, unavoidable civilian toll.  The relevance, post-911, of \\"Chienne de Guerre\\" is its documentation of that enormous human tragedy.  But, as was the case of Afghanistan and al-Qaeda, Chechen civilians are suspected of supporting terrorists.  (Albeit, as Nivat writes, often reluctantly.)  So much so, though, that Chechens -- unlike Albanian, Somali, and other Muslim victims of aggression -- have not been permitted refugee status in the West.  In closing, I would say this book is probably the best and least biased on the subject.  But a mere year has provided new light and different perceptions on this \\"dirty war\\".	2002-12-29
US	49726283	R1N3N6ONF3ZJMK	0553135627	108462218	Moscow 5000	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Terror at the Olympics	David Grant is the pseudonym of a British author whose suspense novels are known for attention to detail and authenticity.  Recent world events compelled me to reread this book which has languished in my library for more than 20 years.  The setting is the XXll Olympiad, Moscow, 1980; the scenario one horribly relevant today.  Terrorists have planted a devastating bomb in the Olympic Stadium, crowded with spectators for the ultimate althletic competition, the \\"Moscow 5000\\".  The story is thrilling.  We follow the runners as they train and compete for the Gold.  And we follow the CIA and KGB agents united for the most crucial race of all, to find and difuse the bomb before thousands are killed.  The plot is plausable enough for a modern nightmare.  The only thing which smacks of improbability: the identity of the terrorists.  In Grant's novel, Ukrainian Nationalists of the Narodny-Trudovoy Soyuz concoct the scheme of destruction.  This is far-fetched, even for those Soviet times, during which Ukraine strugged under Communist oppression.  During the WWll era, the Banderovtsi had alligned itself opportunistically with the Nazis, to fight against Polish and Russian occupiers of Ukraine.  But that its successors slaughter unsuspecting sports spectators, including numerous innocent foreigners, is too great a stretch of the imagination.  Either then or now.  The author chose his villains on the basis of Banderovtsi persecution of the Jews, because religious (rather than political) zealotry would motivate such a heinous act.  If this long out-of-print novel were republished -- and it really should be! -- it would benefit by an update.  al-Qaeda allied Islamist fanatics, such as those connected with attrocity in New York, Moscow, and of course the Munich Olympics, would provide more realism for readers already reeling from international terrorist trauma.  Or would that be too offensive for the anti-religious-defamation police?  The film, \\"The Sum of All Fear\\", which containeda similar storyline to \\"Moscow 5000\\" had to be rewritten (pre 911 PC, obviously) with neo-Nazi instead of religious terrorists.  Ironic, isn't it?	2002-12-29
US	49726283	RHJ3S79V80DI3	0060393297	115507970	If They Only Knew	Books	3	7	10	N	N	The 9th Wonder of the World	I'm not a real fan of professional wrestling, but I received this book written by the WWF superstar as a gift, with an inscription: This is about a woman who is strong, beautiful, and who gained the respect of the men in her field -- so of course it reminded me of you  :)  Well, thanks, Tig, and that's a fair review of the autobiography of Chyna.  Or actually, of Joanie Laurer, her alter-identity.  The first half of the book deals with Joanie's difficult childhood and disfunctional family.  That part is full of bitterness and old grudges.  But the second half is the account of Chyna's rise to wrestling fame, and much more enjoyable.  The book is a very fast read, containing almost 100 wonderful photographs.  Chyna has the most impressive physique of all the WWF \\"Divas\\": by that I mean her ripped, weight-trained muscularity, not those outlandishly oversized implants!  The author confides the details of her decision to \\"enhance her femininity\\", to counteract cruel misperceptions about her gender-identity.  As an amateur powerlifter built \\"like Rambo-in Drag\\", I can identify with her dilemma.  Ironically, it was her extreme \\"feminine enhancement\\" which forced her retirement from the Square Circle.  Far outclassing any of the Divas in strength and ability, China had to be pitted against the male heavyweights.  She held her own in the ring, becoming the first female Intercontinental Champion.  Until the day a fateful encounter with a \\"Clothesline\\" popped one of her vulnerable implants...!  Chyna's anecdotes from her career are full of self-depreciating humor and what appear to be the make-believe rivalries of pro-wrestling.  Interspersed throughout her narrative are quotes from her lover (fellow wrestler \\"Triple H\\"), trainer, comrades, and manager.  Her insight behind-the-scenes of the fantasy world of pro-wrestling is quite interesting.  So, where is Chyna now?  Recently, Joanie Laurer was seen on \\"Celebrity Boxing\\", matched against Joey Buttafucco.  Joanie entered thering 35 pounds sleeker than Chyna in her prime, but handily outboxed Buttafucco.  She lost the match by half a point, after the ex-con resorted to \\"prison brawling tactics\\", in one instance even (as the commentator exclaimed in astonishment) giving her \\"The Knee\\".  Joanie's comment: she had fought \\"like a Lady\\" -- and so had her opponant!  One can only hope for a rematch in the wrestling ring!  I don't believe pro-wrestling, with its violent and sexual themes, is appropriate for children.  And Chyna's book contains both, with a lot of profanity as well.  But I admire Joanie for her accomplishments and am glad I read her story.	2002-12-29
US	49726283	R2CZC92COSOGF8	0964708906	586453987	The Children's Health Food Book	Books	5	17	17	N	N	Why Popeye eats spinach and Wimpy eats hamburgers	This educational book utilizes a comic-book format to explain which food is nourishing and healthful.  And which is worthless and damaging.  Glass Man, whose transparent body allows us to see when he has eaten the right or wrong foods, takes us on the nutritional journey.  Along the way we will meet the deadly Mucus Gang, whose members are on the Most Wanted List for making people weak and sick.  These are the repulsive Meat Monster, Sugar Demon, Dairy Goon, Starch Creature, and their grotesque leader, the Mucus Destroyer.  We'll see the unhealthy results from a diet of this poison: a clogged system, premature aging, failing organs, disease.  Who can protect us?  The Health Guardians!  These are the heroes known as Fruitarian Fighter, Grain Crusader, Vegetarian Warrior, and Seafood Gladiator.  Their live, wholesome foods can knock the Mucus Gang out of our bodies.  This is a unique book, as informative for adults as it is for children.  The colorful cartoons and humorous text contain sound principles of nutrition.  Kids will get a kick out of the yucky junkfood monsters and the stalwart healthfood supermen.  I wish at least one of the latter could have been portrayed as a superwoman. But that's a minor, ahem, \\"beef\\" over a highly recommended vegan book.	2002-11-11
US	49726283	R1PKQ3E0OL04RE	1894485157	191698249	Afghanistan's Unknown War: Memoirs of Russian War Veterans	Books	3	1	1	N	N	afgantsi memoirs	This short compilation of memoirs was published from the Karta Journal web site for Russian war veterans.  The contributors include officers of the Spetznaz and air forces, and professional mercenaries.  Basically, these are standard Soviet war memoirs: fairly impersonal accounts of battles, ambushes, casualties.  Caravans of foreign weapons and jihadists constantly intercepted from Pakistan.  The Afghan government forces (\\"tsarandoi\\") were considered soft targets by the rebel mujahedin (\\"dushmani\\"), and often proved to be of little help to their Soviet comrades.  The book contains details of a couple of notorious massacres, in which Russian platoons were abandoned or even betrayed by their Afghan allies.  And there are some curiously indifferent accounts of torture at the hands of mujahedin.  Although translated from the veterans' own words, the anecdotes and interviews give little indication of their writers' emotions.  The translation itself is barely adequate.  The overall quality of the book is below average.  It appears to have been printed on a Xerox machine.  Pages alternate between text and illustrations, the latter consisting of small, badly-reproduced sketches and photos. There are approximately twenty different illos, which are repeated in series.  Each one appears over a half-dozen times, apparently for the purpose of \\"padding\\" the contents.  ...!  Overall, these memoirs are interesting, and valuable as historical reference.  ...	2002-11-11
US	49726283	R27ABXWPIPS9XO	0859532763	225566575	The Cat That Walked by Himself	Books	5	12	13	N	N	It happened "Just So"!	My favorite of the \\"Just So Stories\\" explains how the Cat, the \\"wildest of the wild animals\\" came to share the home and hearth of Man.  Of course, the Cat resisted the Magic which the Woman made to enslave the Dog, the Horse, and the Cow.  He tricked the Woman into accepting him on his own terms.  And to this day, he walks by himself, by his wild lone, waving his wild tail.  And all places are alike to him.  I've read Kipling's classic a bazillion times in the past 45 years, and this is easily the most beautiful rendition of it I've ever seen.  The large type and attractive font make reading easy for children -- and delightful for adults!  The illustrations are simply exquisite!  The \\"Just So Stories\\" have withstood the test of time -- more than a century -- and political correctness But I beg to differ with Kipling's contention that \\"three proper Men out of five will always throw things at a Cat.\\"  *Real* proper men love cats!	2002-11-11
US	49726283	R260ERSJMQYAEE	0745319173	776180853	Unholy Wars: Afghanistan, America and International Terrorism	Books	5	26	30	N	N	unholy alliances	Former President Jimmy Carter was awarded the 2002 Nobel Prize for his Middle East peace efforts. Yet Carter's Central Asian policies were directly responsible for the spawning of international terrorism as we know it now. On Juy 3, 1979, Carter, acting on the recommendation of his National Security Advisor, cold-warrior Zbigniew Brzezinski, began clandestinely supporting Islamic insurgents in Afghanistan. Carter may rue this now. But at the time, he believed Afghani Islamist rebels were simply fellow Believers denied their religious freedom by the \\"godless\\" Marxist government in Kabul. Brzezinski knew better. But as he stated in a 1998 interview: \\"This secret operation was an excellent idea. Its effect was to draw the Russians into the Afghan trap.\\" When the Soviet Army entered Afghanistan in late December 1979, Brzezinski gloated, \\"Now we can give the USSR its own Vietnam War!\\" Brzezinski and Carter's CIA Director Adm. Stansfield Turner freely acknowledged that \\"possible adverse consequences of the anti-communist alliance with Afghan Islamists (and shortly afterward with their radical Muslim allies around the world) -- the growth of a new international terrorist movement and global outreach of Central Asian drug-trafficking -- did not weigh heavily, if at all\\" in their calculations. Brzezinski, asked later whether he regretted arming and training future terrorists, retorted: \\"What was more important in world history? The Taliban or the fall of the Soviet empire? A few over-excited Islamists, or the liberation of eastern Europe?\\" Brzezinski's native Poland was, of course, in eastern Europe...  Carter encouraged Islamist incursions into the Central Asian republics of the USSR, ostensibly to foment religious rebellion in those secular Islamic states. As Brzezinski admitted, the US intended to \\"build bridges to states having a strong Muslim identity.\\" However, the insurgents frequently committed small-scale terrorist acts by planting bombs in crowded markets, bus depots, apartment and government buildings, and through kidnappings and executions. Carter's sincere but misguided religious naivety regarding Islamism was rewarded with the Iranian hostage crisis which ended his chances of a second term.<BR>The Reagan regime continued Carter's Central Asian policy, and began to deploy an army of Muslim zealots from geographically strategic Pakistan and wealthy Saudi Arabia. Jihadists from every corner of the Muslim world were recruited and trained by the CIA and US military Special Forces in Afghanistan, Pakistan, and even at US military bases. Reagan vastly increased funding of mujahedin \\"holy warriors\\" who established their own facilities -- later to become terrorist training camps -- in Afghanistan. There, exiled Saudi billionaire Usama bin Laden started his ascent from mujahed commander to international terrorist mastermind. Following the death of Leonid Brezhnev, Mikhail Gorbachev implored the UN to intervene and help negociate an end to the Soviet Afghan quagmire. At this, Reagan responded with his infamous exhortation to the mujahedin \\"Declare holy jihad and go for the victory!\\"  After the Soviet withdrawal, the government of Afghanistan collapsed. The various mujahedin factions began to fight amongst themselves for political supremacy, territory, and opium. The fundamentalist Wahabist Taliban emerged victorious. The so-called northern alliance was (and still is) a loose coalition of warlords and bandits with the motive of personal power, tribal bigotry, and drug profits for its opposition to the Saudi-sponsored Taliban. Moscow regarded the Northern Alliance as the sole barrier between Wahabist extremism and the vulnerable bordering Central Asian states. Russia committed ongoing support to the northern forces, whose leader was, ironically, one of the most notorious CIA-trained rebel operatives during the Soviet Afghan War. <BR>Normally, I am not impressed by right-of-center interpretations of history, because they so frequentlyattempt to absolve the US of responsibility for disasterous policy. But Cooley has written an honest, unbiased account of the birth and rise of a world-threatening evil.  And \\"Unholy Wars\\" does not spare recriminations toward any country whose actions contributed to the empowerment of international terrorism. It is a frighteningly eye-opening and timely book.  All I can say is, read it now!	2002-10-20
US	49726283	R1A4D6Z1W6ZENR	0312966121	650875554	Hostile Waters	Books	5	35	35	N	N	"K-219"	\\"Down three thousand fathoms deep, Deaths of millions in her keep; With her, in eternal sleep -- Sergei Preminin.\\"  With these words begins Russell Hoban's poem immortalizing an extraordinary deed of an ordinary Russian submariner.  \\"Hostile Waters\\" also recounts Seaman Preminin's selfless sacrifice, which saved the lives of countless unsuspecting Americans.  But this is only one of the riveting episodes of desperation and courage chronicled in this true story about a doomed nuclear submarine.  Authors USN-AWS Capt. (ret.) Huchthausen and Soviet Capt. 1st. Rank Kurdin were participants in the ongoing Cold War events which led to the tragedy of K-219.  Written with the assistance of accomplished novelist Robin A. White (\\"Siberian Light\\", \\"Ice Curtain\\"), their book reads like a spellbinding adventure of disaster and heroism on the sea.  In 1986, the Soviet Navy, in its futile attempts to match its superior American counterpart, was sending its fleet of obsolete boomers to patrol the eastern coast of the US.  Capt. Igor Britanov knew that his noisy, decrepit boat was being tracked from the moment she left her home port, and that once in American waters, he was being shadowed by a state-of-the-art hunter-killer.  Following an unintentional collision by the USS Augusta, K-219 sustained severe damage which left her flooding and burning, with an open missile-hatch, on the surface.  In a cascading chain of catastrophe, her nuclear reactor began to overheat.  As the US military went on DEFCON alert, K-219 foundered in her desperate and dangerous death-throes.  You, the reader, will intimately experience the Soviet crew's minute-by-minute struggle for survival.  You will bond with the Russian Captain, whose fatherly affection for his men inspired their loyalty and dedication to the point of personal sacrifice.  You will be astonished by the attrocious actions of the American Captain, which alienated his own crew and ultimately cost him his career.  You will be disgusted by the competative uncooperativeness between the American armed forces, and the open hostility between individual branches of the Navy.  You will be dismayed by the utter callousness of the US and Soviet governments whose disregard for human life imperilled the world.  And you will never forget Sergei Preminin, who voluntarily entered the hot reactor and manually cranked down the stuck baffle-plates, thus preventing a meltdown mere miles off the American coast.  For an eye-opening and disturbing view of US Cold War politics, and an even-handed and compassionate portrayal of the Opposition, read this \\"ten-star\\" story!	2002-09-29
US	49726283	R24RIDCHI3HM75	1580084168	646098066	Afghanistan: A Russian Soldier's Story	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Haunting and timely	For decades, the Soviet Union enjoyed a good relationship with its neighbor to the south.  Nearly all modern roads, bridges, dams, factories, and schools in Afghanistan were built by Soviet engineers and Afghans educated in Soviet universities.  When civil war broke out, the Afghan government repeatedly asked the USSR for help.  For the first year after the 1979 invasion, the Soviets were welcome as liberators, according to Ali Asghar Paiman, the Russian-educated deputy planning minister in the current interim government.  The American military would do well to take heed.  Because by the time Vladislav Tamarov was conscripted, the erstwhile \\"liberators\\" were involved in a disastrous Vietnam-like quagmire.  Trained as a paratrooper, Tamarov served 621 days in Afghanistan as a mine-sweeper.  Afgantsi memoirs are rare, even in Russia, where details of the decade of war were suppressed.  But Vladislav, a professional photographer, kept a remarkable and clandestine photo journal of his 217 combat missions.  Afgantsi returning home after their tour of duty had no access to veterans' support groups, although they suffered every malaise experienced by their \\"vietnamtsi\\" counterparts.  Vlad began writing as his personal catharsis.  What he achieved is an extraordinarily intimate and haunting account of war and its consequences.  Written following his homecoming, the narrative is presented as a series of flashbacks, not always in chronological sequence.  Some reviewers have found this effect confusing, but it is extremely effective in relaying the author's own disorientation.  He is in his kitchen, his cat purring at his feet, his Mama making coffee -- and suddenly he is again holding a wounded comrade in his arms as a helicopter refuses to land under fire.  He is contemplating a moonlight stroll with a girlfriend -- and is instantly transported to a night watch in the mountains, surrounded by rebels whose whispers he hears in the dark.  A tire ruptures on a Leningrad street;his body reacts, lunging into the bushes as the memory of an ambush returns in a rush of adrenaline.  A scent, a sight, a sound, is all it takes and the war is back.  He is relieved to be safe at home, but feels inexplicable desire to return to his company, to an existence that at least had meaning.  He seeks out other veterans and finds them strangers.  The ghosts of comrades \\"still on patrol\\" visit him -- are they accusing him of surviving or telling him to get on with his life?  I first read this under the former title \\"Afghanistan: Soviet Vietnam\\".  The Vietnam correlation is still appropriate, in part because a portion of the book relates the author's meeting with sympathetic American Vietnam vets.  In their camaraderie, Vlad found the only people capable of understanding him.  With their support, Soviet afgantsi got the chance to heal some of their physical and emotional wounds.  Vlad's poignant photos and text made a strong impact on me ten years ago.  A recent rereading has given me a couple of restless nights.  Post 9-11, his story is more timely than ever!  Can America prevent our own afgantsi from repeating the Soviet repetition of Vietnam?	2002-09-02
US	49726283	R2VEH4HRXRLF0X	0393034151	752424980	Zinky Boys: Soviet Voices from the Afghanistan War	Books	5	11	15	N	N	Afgantsi Vets are Not Fonda Sveta"	Svetlana Aleksievich is a prominant Belorussian feminist writer.  Her best-known work is \\"War's Unwomanly Face\\", a collection of interviews with rank-and-file women soldiers of World War ll.  Despite her personal anti-war sentiment radiating from every page, the author's treatment of the veterans is sympathetic and respectful.  After all, they sacrificed their youth in the Great Patriotic War.  That titanic struggle is commemorated every year, its soldiers honored as heroes of their Motherland.  Not so the Afghanistan War and its veterans.  Not unlike American Vietnam vets, afgantsi were damned and forgotten by their homeland.  \\"Zinky Boys\\" takes its name from the zinc coffins which transported Soviet remains from Afghanistan.  The USSR did not learn much from the American experience in Vietnam, but one lesson they did realize early was public reaction to planeloads of returning coffins.  \\"Zinkies\\" were delivered to families at night, in a government attempt to conceal information about numbers and types of casualties.  Like her previous work, this book is a collection of interviews from the author's distinctly pacifist viewpoint.  Fully half of her contributors are women.  Most are grieving mothers, sisters, sweethearts, and wives of soldiers.  These did, and still do, comprise Russia's largest and most influential feminist movement.  Their stories are absolutely heartbreaking.  Other correspondents include female medical personnel who treated wounded.  Theirs are harrowing stories of the mutilations committed by mujahedin (\\"holy warriors\\"), whose favored attrocities were dismemberments and castrations.  Some victims were tournicated and left alive to be rescued by their comrades.  They often begged their surgeons not to save them.  The sealed coffins of those who died of dismemberment were horribly lightweight on the shoulders of their pallbearers back home.  Cynically, the military learned to weight such coffins with dirt to prevent questions from bereaved relatives.  The final group of female contributors are \\"civilian workers\\", most often a euphemism for prostitutes, who went to Afghanistan for their \\"international duty\\".  These correspondents speak of the emotional burden of officers and young conscripts.  The majority of the men interviewed by Aleksievich are suffering from physical ailments, Post Traumatic Stress Syndrome, nightmares, alcoholism, and other maladies which also affected their \\"vietnamtsi\\" counterparts.  These men fought a largely unsupported war against an enemy who spurned conventional tactics.  They witnessed violent death and unspeakable torture of their comrades.  Often they were forced to slaughter innocent Afghan civilians used by mujahedin as human-shields for their strike-and-run operations.  Aleksievich has little compassion for Afghanistan vets.  Like a Soviet equivalent of Jane Fonda, she accuses them of being murderers and baby-killers.  She simplistically lauds the mujahedin for \\"defending their country\\", perhaps ignorant of the fact that they were mostly foreign jihadists recruited, funded, supplied, and trained by the USA to fight a proxy war with the USSR.  Not surprisingly, Aleksievich was hailed by the Soviet anti-war movement while hated by the government and veterans.  It is ironic that her book mimics the Soviet press by publishing only a single POV.  She does give a sound-off platform to one offended and anonymous afganetz, but presents him as a disturbed psycho.  Vietnam vets would probably identify.  This is not the best book about the USSR's disasterous, decade-long conflict.  Readers wanting to know the history and reasons behind it, as well as its present-day ramifications, are urged to get John Cooley's \\"Unholy Wars: Afghanistan, America, and International Terrorism\\".  For better understanding of the ordeal of the Soviet soldier, get Artem Borovik's \\"The Hidden War\\".  But I nevertheless recommend reading \\"Zinky Boys\\".  Despite its shortcomings, it succeeds brilliantly in its own category: a feminist treatise against war and a voice for those whose lives were destroyed by it.	2002-07-14
US	49726283	R2P2KAQYXXS1F1	0670030414	435949952	The Fall of Berlin 1945	Books	4	159	181	N	N	the dark side of the Noble Fury	The preponderance of space in the Central Armed Forces Museum of Moscow is devoted to the Great Patriotic War. You will see memorials to fire-scorched Byelorussia and Ukraine, bomb-devastated Stalingrad, and famine-besieged Leningrad. You'll see an entire hall dedicated to the Holocaust, with grisly displays of Nazi barbarism, including products made from the bodies of concentration-camp victims. You'll see photos of emaciated Jews as well as Czechs, Bulgarians, and Hungarians showering flowers and kisses on Red Army tanks and troops. You'll see tributes to American Lend-Lease convoys, and snapshots of Western and Soviet Allies embracing on the Elbe. Your guide will tell you how only in recent years can the truth be told about the paranoid cruelty of Stalin, Beria, and the NKVD toward \\"liberated\\" Europe and the Soviet people. But while documenting the suffering and sacrifices of the USSR, there is little mention, even today, of crimes committed by Red Army occupiers of Berlin.<BR>I disagree with the detractors of Antony Beevor that in addressing these atrocities his book negates the heroism of the Soviet soldier. On every page, the author emphasizes the appalling conditions in which the Red Army had to wrest its victory, and the terrible cost in Soviet lives. Under-nourished, under-supplied, poorly-trained soldiers were motivated not only by the brutality of SMERSH and NKVD forces. Their \\"Noble Fury\\" was incited not only by relentless propaganda from Political Instructors or incendiary front-line correspondents such as the popular Ilya Ehrenburg. Every Soviet family had suffered personal loss during the German invasion and occupation, and every soldier was driven by hatred of the Fascist Beast.<BR>It is the mass rape perpetrated by the Red Army which comprises the controversy of Beevor's book. But Beevor is hardly the first to document that atrocity. It was early exploited for pulp-novels such as James Burke's luridly-titled \\"The Big Rape.\\"  And it has not been ignored by historians.  Neither Cornelius Ryan in \\"The Last Battle\\" nor Andrew Tully in his Soviet-sympathetic \\"Berlin: Story of a Battle\\" flinch from describing the orgy of looting and rape which often followed the most desperate fighting and hard-won victories. Only Beevor makes the effort to analyze (although never justify) the reasons for this conduct. As he reiterates, many Soviet frontoviki comported themselves \\"with utmost correctness\\", and the ones who partook in debauchery were emboldened to do so only after much imbibing of alcohol. Beevor delves into the still-prevailing rape psychology of conquering armies (indeed, to large groupings of males in general), assigning four distinct phases to the culture of wartime abuse of women. The first phase is vengeful, which accounted for the extreme ferocity toward victims in Prussia and eastern Germany. The second phase is purely sexual, and accounted for the celebratory riot in Berlin. Regarding the time period, Beevor cites the total \\"unenlightenment\\" of attitudes about sex, revealed in one Soviet officer's jovial anecdote about the \\"gratitude\\" of man-starved grandmothers for soldiers' attentions. And also in a widely repeated quip of Berlin women, trapped in the city enduring Allied air-raids and awaiting the Asiatic Horde, which went: \\"Better a Russki on the belly than an Ami [American, a reference to B-17 bombs] on the head!\\" The third phase involves women's \\"willing\\" participation, usually in exchange for food or \\"protection\\". Feminists nowadays refute any theory of rape being a sexual, as opposed to purely violent, crime. But it should be remembered, up until the 70's, women facing rape -- even gang-rape -- were routinely advised not to resist but to \\"relax and enjoy it\\".  The fourth phase is prostitution. According to Beevor, by the time Americans entered Berlin, a \\"cigarette-economy\\" was in full-swing, and American servicemen \\"did not have to rape\\".<BR>While Beevor's sensationalism of Red Army brutality may antagonize Russian readers, he contrastingly portrays honorable Soviets in a positive light. There are numerous mentions of traditional Slavic sentimentality toward children, and the compassion of soldiers who shared their meager rations with refugees and civilians. As one sapper noted: \\"How should one treat them? Just think of it. They were well off, well fed, had livestock, vegetable gardens, and apple trees. And they invaded us! For this, we should strangle them. I'm sorry for the children. Even though they are Fritz kids.\\" And there are quotes from idealistic Communists distressed by drunken violence and concerned about its effect on the world image of the USSR. <BR>If you read this book, keep in mind the extraordinary circumstances of the War. Beevor is neither anti-Slavic nor anti-German. He is properly condemnatory of Stalin. He is even more unforgiving of the Reich, its coldness toward its own people and utter contempt for non-Aryans. He documents a conflict between two insane despots of two totalitarian regimes, and the horror endured by everyone caught up in it.	2002-07-05
US	49726283	R2EAFKF0M1S1QZ	0812930991	150767402	Blinded by the Right: The Conscience of an Ex-Conservative	Books	4	12	15	N	N	"It's not the votes that count...	...but who counts the votes.\\" (Joseph Stalin)  This book has generated controversy -- from rightwingers enraged over the author's treason, to leftwingers skeptical of his biting of the hands which fed and later bled him.  \\"Blinded by the Right\\" does come off more as revenge than conscience.  And the author is the self-confessed liar who smirkingly fabricated the most far-fetched sleaze about opponants of the radical Right.  But nothing in Brock's latest book is exactly a revelation or expose' -- who isn't already aware of all the stones of scandal backfiring into the fragile glass houses of the oh-so-hypocritical Right?  Collected and collated, all this dish does, of course, make for some entertaining (and scary!) fare.  But that is not what makes it interesting to me.  Rather, it's Brock's personal story, his involvement with all these unsavory characters and their agenda.  For I can identify with Brock's early embracement and his ultimate rejection of the Grand Old Party, which has been hijacked by extremists such as the [Un]Christian Coalition.  After all, it was that consummate Conservative, Senator Barry Goldwater, who first denounced religio-political movements as unAmerican \\"evil\\", and who declared that the only concern about gays in the military should be \\"whether they can shoot straight\\".  And back when the words \\"conservatism\\" and \\"conservation\\" had the same root, it was President Richard Nixon who created the EPA and first signed environmental bills into legislation.  No surprise, therefore, that Hillary Rodham (Clinton) had been such a zealous campaigner for Goldwater... and Nixon was the first President I helped elect.  (Ironically, so many Republicans nowadays deny having voted for Nixon, one wonders how he ever achieved that landslide second-term victory!)  I became disenchanted with the GOP during Reagan's regime, during escalating Cold War insanity and the rise of the \\"religious reich\\".  Whereas David Brock had just begun his own descent.  Having fled the leftist radicalism of his college contemporaries for the staunchly anti-Communist stance of the Right, he soon found his own niche in the GOP's new \\"moral-values\\" mudslinging, focused on the personal lives of its opposition.  Brock now apologises for his smear & sneer assault on Anita Hill.  And he exposes the entire sleazy Vast Rightwing Conspiracy to \\"kill Clinton\\", which karmically claimed a host of adulterous Conservative casualties.  One chapter deals with the Paula Jones scandal.  Hypocritical religious groups spent thousands of dollars arranging Jones' make-over from garish strumpet to naive Christian maiden.  (This futile endeavor was rewarded by Jones' subsequent flirtation with Penthouse Magazine.)  Even when no sexual sludge can be dredged to smear political opponants, rightwing campaign committees resort to such vile slander as the widespread lie about (R. AZ) Senator John McCain's \\"collaboration\\" with his VietCong captors.  If the \\"new\\" GOP is so unaverse to defiling its own, it's not surprising that its enduring spokesmen, Jerry Falwell and Pat Robertson, would blame the terrible events of September 11 on \\"liberals, feminists, pagans, and homosexuals\\".  Those vicious accusations shocked David Brock and finally severed his ties with the \\"new\\" Republican Party.  As a fellow registered Independent, I found his claimed recovered \\"Conscience\\", at least, compatible with my own.  Like Brock, I'll continue to support worthy Conservative candidates who emphatically denounce rightwing extremists and \\"religious\\" fanatics.	2002-06-23
US	49726283	R3JI3U0DZ20V6T	1568580541	754223005	Incident at Sakhalin: The True Mission of KAL Flight 007	Books	5	19	31	N	N	post Cold War declassification	Only a year ago, I watched a History Channel presentation of the \\"official\\" story of KAL 007, whose flight-number designation seemed so cruelly appropriate.  Shortly thereafter I was recommended \\"Incident at Sakhalin\\" by a person who had been heavily involved in US Cold War strategies of the eighties.  \\"Read this,\\" he insisted, \\"if you want to know how close to the brink of nuclear war we came.\\"  He refused to say more, but the book is an eye-opener.  On 1-Sept. 1983, Korean Air Lines Flight 007, enroute to Seoul from New York via Anchorage, disappeared over the Sea of Japan.  An extraordinary propaganda campaign and coverup ensued immediately following the events surrounding this incident -- on both sides of the Cold War Iron Curtain.  In that perilous and paranoid time, the disaster nearly precipitated World War lll.  To this day, the four governments involved in the Sakhalin Incident would prefer that the \\"official\\" conclusion remain in effect: that is, the passenger jet had innocently strayed off-course and was mistaken for the Cobra Ball spy plane which was detected at the same time in violation of Soviet airspace.  That story generated much suspicion, which resulted in numerous Congressional investigations and accusations regarding CIA use of foreign civilian airliners for its surveillance missions over the USSR.  Passengers were routinely and unwittingly used as pawns, a chilling revelation in itself.  But Brun's book goes way beyond that.  The author has impressive credentials; he is a French aviation expert and aircraft accident investigator, fluent in five languages.  Moreover, his political neutrality ensures an unbiased presentation of the facts he had spent some ten years gathering.  Several mysteries of the Sakhalin incident are widely known.  For example, neither the wreck of the plane nor the remains of the 269 passengers has ever been found in the shallow area of the Sea of Japan over which KAL 007 was allegedly shot down.  Meticulous research, aided by post-Cold War release of previously classified materials, reveals more of the disturbing story.  In fact, Flight 007 was not lost over Sakhalin, but continued to fly and transmit messages for nearly an hour after other intruding aircraft were intercepted there by Soviet MiGs.  The evidence shows that a poorly-conceived US intelligence and provocation operation launched a two-hour-long air battle with Soviet fighters over Sakhalin.  In this battle, US Air Force and Navy aircraft and personnel were lost, and KAL 007 disappeared some 435 miles from where it was \\"officially\\" claimed to have crashed -- by means and reasons after all these years still unexplained.  Boris Yeltsin, in his 17-June, 1992 speech to a joint session of the US Congress, mentioned Soviet-held American POWs in conjunction with the KAL 007 incident.  This was interpreted by the American press as reference to the Korean and Vietnam eras; and the Reagan Administration offered no enlightenment to the public.  We Americans have become accustomed to some misinformation and coverup on the part of the government, some of which is conducted in the name of national security.  It appears that the Incident at Sakhalin was the result of a massive blunder with tragic, embarrassing, and nearly devastating ramifications.  Get the book!  Loaded with technical facts and stats, it is a fascinating read.	2002-05-18
US	49726283	R1TF9BESE871V4	0671000748	314458397	Echo Platoon (Rogue Warrior)	Books	4	3	4	N	N	More Doom on Dickie!	I confess!  Richard Marcinko's semi-autobiographical Rogue Warrior series is one of my peculiar pleasures.  \\"Red Cell\\" is still, far and away, my favoite.  But \\"Echo Platoon\\" is a treat with a new twist. ...It seems the old Rogue Warrior is starting to feel his age these days.  Even though he spends every free moment at Rogue Manor pumping massive amounts of iron and honing his fighting and sharpshooting skills, by his own admission he's having difficulty keeping up with his young hunters.  Sometimes enough to FUBAR the missions he leads. And he's mellowing in other ways too, such as permitting a female Marine to accompany the team this time out. But he can still kick that tango butt! You might have caught the author on TV recently, describing SEAL tactics in Afghanistan.  Anyone else notice his splendid physical condition?  You have little trouble believing him quite capable of his fictionalized exploits.  You know he's intimately familiar with all the weapons and gear he namedrops throughout his narrative.  Despite his ongoing love-hate relationship with the Navy, you can't help admiring the Rogue for his swaggering patriotism, his fatherly affection toward his young shooters, and his bantering, even bullying, camaraderie with his readers.  And then there's his trademark \\"Ten Commandments of SPECWAR\\", which can be equally effective in whatever non-lethal endeavor you might undertake, be it business to bodybuilding.  Credit also goes to John Weisman, Marcinko's co-author, for the fast-reading, non-stop excitement and often laugh-out-loud humor of this series.  Sure, Dickie's getting greyer, but don't count him out of the action yet!  You know the old Rogue's got a few more adventures to come!	2002-04-23
US	49726283	RAFB1YGOKFW6N	1585741760	389497335	Shurik: A WWII Saga of the Siege of Leningrad	Books	5	6	6	N	N	a memoir of hardship and hope	&quot;Shurik&quot; is the memoir of Kyra Petrovskaya, a decorated veteran and survivor of the blockade of Leningrad.  Hundreds of thousands of Leningrad women served during that terrible three-year ordeal as firefighters, sappers, nurses, trench-diggers, artillery gunners, and barrage-balloon crew.  Like her fellow citizens, Kyra enlisted in the Army.  An actress by profession, she received hurried medical training.  She was initially disappointed to be attached to a safe post in a hospital, instead of at the front as a battlefield corpsman.  But the hospital soon came under fire and was inundated with wounded.  Kyra rescued an orphaned boy from the bombed ruins of his home and, against Army regulations, &quot;adopted&quot; him.  As the siege progressed, Leningraders began to die, not only from bombardment, but from cold, sickness, and starvation.  Over a million would perish.  Twelve-year-old Shurik survived, thanks to Kyra's compassion, and even became himself a Hero of Leningrad.  When Kyra transferred to the front, he worked as an orderly in the hospital.  Off duty, he joined the Bucket Brigades of komsomols who hauled water by hand from the Neba to the bakeries.  Without the meager bread rations, many more would have starved.  &quot;Shurik&quot; is an awe-inspiring story about hardship and hope under siege.  Petrovskaya's descriptions of everyday life -- and death-- in the silent, frozen city are horrific.  The only sign of continued contact with &quot;the mainland&quot; was the eerie but reassuring ticking of the metronome over the radio.  When the great Lake Ladoga froze over and the Red Army liberated key ports on its opposite shore, an ice route provided the city's desperately needed &quot;Road of Life&quot;.  The injured and infirm could be evacuated, and truckloads of vital food and supplies brought into Leningrad.  To protect the convoys and provide emergency medical service, Kyra patrolled as a ski-mounted machine-gunner.  She and her fellow soldiers lived on the Lake in igloos, trying not to think about the hundreds of feet of frigid water beneath the ice surface.  Every day, enemy aircraft bombed the vulnerable convoys and strafed the processions of people.  Kyra's harrowing account of traversing the perilous ice under this constant barrage is unlike anything I've ever read previously.  &quot;Shurik&quot; is a personal story, and an excellent complement of Harrison Salisbury's &quot;900 Days&quot;.  With a forward by Salisbury and numerous rare photos, this book will be appreciated by anyone interested in the human aspect of the devastating Siege.  In addition, it provides further documentary on the participation of Soviet women and children during the War.	2002-01-22
US	49726283	R2811Z34VVU9KU	0690041144	107892987	Pack of Wolves (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	trapped behind enemy lines	Vasil Bykov is the Belorussian author of a dozen novels based on his own wartime experience.  He has been decorated for \\"Laureate of the Government of the USSR\\", and a number of his works have been made into plays and movies.  \\"Pack of Wolves\\" was his first book to be translated into English.  This engaging story is presented in a series of flash-backs revolving around a suspenseful life-or-death struggle.  Levchuk, a one-armed veteran, arrives in an unfamiliar city, hoping to find someone he met thirty years ago.  That brief meeting took place during the War.  As Levchuk nervously awaits his reunion with a man he never got to know, he reminisces about a fateful two-day ordeal in 1943:  ...Levchuk, a machine-gunner, has been disabled by a sniper's bullet.  A stupid, useless wound, just because he had craved a smoke.  So now he must leave the front, and worse, accompany an aging orderly, a gravely injured paratrooper, and a pregnant radio-operator to the medical unit.  It will be a dangerous journey.  To break out of German encirclement, the little band forges a swamp, wrestling their horse and cart through treacherous bogs.  They narrowly elude a Nazi patrol, and lose one of their number when they are forced to run for their lives under fire.  But their ordeal is only beginning.  Klava goes into labor just as local Polizei (collaborators) strike their trail.  A drying-shed in a burned-out village provides a shelter for Klava to deliver her son, until the refugees are set upon by their pursuers. Then begins their desperate battle, only now it is for the survival of the band's newest member.  And ultimately Levchuk will have to make a life-changing decision...  Like all of Bykov's stories, \\"Pack of Wolves\\" addresses the humanity of the characters as they struggle with inhumane circumstances.	2002-01-22
US	49726283	R30OFWZU0JT6P6	B00005VCDH	826823833	All night long:  a novel of guerrilla warfare in Russia	Books	4	10	11	N	N	exciting Partisan action	When Erskine Caldwell returned in 1941 from a visit to the war-torn USSR, he wrote this gripping adventure set in occupied Byelorussia.  The main protagonist is Sergei, a young tractor-driver who joins the Partisan band of the charismatic guerrilla leader Pavlenko.  Separated from his wife Natasha while escaping an encirclement, Sergei worries unceasingly about her safety while continuing to carry out raids against the invaders. He and his daring comrades, with the support of the Red Army, wreck trains, ambush trucks, and pick off sentries.  Tragically, successful action often reaps swift retaliation from the Hitlerites, who slaughter and burn entire villages, and kidnap young women to frontline brothels.  Erskine Caldwell, who authored such \\"lewd\\" literature as \\"God's Little Acre\\" and \\"Tobacco Road\\", is probably the only American novelist of his time who could describe so unflinchingly the mass rape of Slavic peasant-girls.  Throughout the book, the Germans are depicted entirely as evil, inhuman beasts.  Contrastingly, the Partisans are without exception brave, noble, and good.  If such characterization seems unduly simplistic for a writer of Caldwell's stature, one must consider the times in which this novel was published.  No reader could fail to feel sympathy and solidarity for the sacrifices of the distant Soviet Allies.  Indeed, on the back cover of my yellowing 1942 edition is a patriotic message: \\"This book, like all books, is a symbol of the liberty and the freedom for which we fight.  You, as a reader of books, can do your share in the desperate battle to protect those liberties -- BUY WAR BONDS!\\"	2002-01-21
US	49726283	R2EQ7ZPJUKKK4X	0700611452	930038066	Wings, Women, and War: Soviet Airwomen in World War II Combat (Modern War Studies)	Books	5	18	18	N	N	new material, eagerly-awaited!	Probably the best-known female combatants on the Eastern Front are the three aviation regiments formed by Marina Raskova, aka the &quot;Russian Earhart&quot;.  During the past several decades, histories, memoirs, novels, photos, and films about these remarkable heroines have become available worldwide.  Even so, Reina Pennington has uncovered some new and exciting material for this eagerly-awaited book!  &quot;Wings, Women, and War&quot;, the latest volume in the Modern War Series, contains a scholarly examination of the training and performance of Soviet airwomen.  Of particular relevance to current US military gender-issues is updated information on female interaction with male counterparts and commanders.  The 46th Guards Night Bombers were entirely segregated, while the 125th Guards Dive Bombers had integrated ground-personnel and tailgunners, and a male CO.  In the 586th Fighter regiment, one squadron which early tranferred to elite, predominantly-male VVS units was permanently replaced by a male squadron.  Therefore, objective statistics are available, and comparisons can be made of performances and unit cohesion under sustained combat conditions.  Pennington dispels, once and for all, persistent Western myth surrounding the formation of Soviet female aviation regiments: that is, that women were recruited due to desperate shortages of male pilots, or that they were intended only for propaganda.  In fact, the female volunteers went into circuit during the period of German air-superiority when Soviet planes, not pilots, were scarce.  And though female ACEs were exploited by the front-line press, there was very little coverage otherwise of the Raskova regiments in either Russian or foreign newspapers.  Particularly so of the 586th Fighter regiment, which following its formation and for years afterward has been shrouded in controversy.  That PVO (Air Defense) unit was plagued by the problematic and incompetent command of the sisters Kazarinova.  Although unqualified to fly the regiment's Yak-1's, these VVS officers had been decorated for ominous &quot;unspecified services&quot; during Stalin's military Purges.  Distrusted by, yet bitterly envious of their women pilots, the Kazarinovas used their influence for personal revenge against their subordinates.  The sisters were eventually replaced by Maj. Aleksandr Gridnev, a legitimate aviator who became the target of the Kazarinovas' resentment.  Author Pennington obtained Gridnev's unpublished journal, and conducted extensive interviews with him and surviving regimental personnel, which shed fascinating new light on that controversy.  These revelations are in themselves worth the purchase of the book!  Pennington also interviewed veterans of the 46th and 125th Guards, but their excerpts and historical backgrounds have a familiar quality.  In cross-referencing footnotes and bibliography, it is clear that much of this material's sources had been previously researched for K. J. Cottam's &quot;Women in War and Resistance&quot; and earlier publications.  Other new material includes detailed lists of  personnel, broken down by regimental assignment, job classification, and gender.  &quot;Wings, Women, and War&quot; is a studious, impartial work. As such, it is much less intimate than Cottam's &quot;Women in Air War&quot; and Noggle's &quot;A Dance With Death&quot;, which are collections translated from the participants' own words.  Thus, all these books complement eachother perfectly, and I recommend them highly for enthusiasts of women's military studies and/or Eastern Front studies!	2001-12-29
US	49726283	R2LD3HTDC4XF7F	1890065005	215400193	Secret Fighting Arts of the Warrior Race, Volume 1: betleH yIqel	Books	5	14	16	N	N	Fight like a Klingon warrior!	This volume was intended to be the first in a series by a Kung Fu Master on fighting technique with Klingon weapons.  Step-by-step instruction begins with correct stance, warm-up, and forms.  Then take your 'uSDu' (fighting stance) and raise your betleH!  The Master and his female co-instructor demonstrate through sequences of black-and-white photos, real offensive and defensive technique with the sickle-like blade.  You'll learn to use your betleH against an opponent armed with naQ (staff) or ghIntaH (naginata), and how to fight empty-handed against a betleH-wielding adversary.  By the end of your instruction, you will also be able to perform a moqbara (kata) with your weapon.  The book is written in Fed-Standard (English), and contains captions and proverbs in tlhIngan-Hol, the authentic klingo-lingo.  The instruction photos of the are professional quality and the Klingon costumes are quite convincing!  Helpful line-diagrams show foot-positions and direction of movement.  The great thing about this book is, if you have trained in Kung Fu you can actually do these exercizes.  \\"Secret Fighting Arts of the Warrior Race\\" is presented seriously, even though it is intended for fandom fantasy. You won't have to search for a betleH forged in the Klingon Empire -- you can order one from the publisher of this book.	2001-12-20
US	49726283	R1A0RZPT3U30VZ	0590418599	337948978	Here Comes the Cat!	Books	5	14	14	N	N	&quot;10-star&quot; childrens' book in English and Russian!	A little Mouse, aloft in his balloon, sees an ominous shadow approaching the country of his people!  Fleeing homeward, he cries warning to every Mouse he meets: &quot;Here comes the Cat!  Ciuda idyot Kot!&quot;  Soon the alarm is being passed from one to the other, until the entire Mouse population awaits in dread the arrival of the Cat.  What will happen when Mice and Cat come face to face?  Something quite unexpected!  Significantly, this lovely little book is the creation of two authors, one American and the other Russian.  After meeting in 1986 at a Soviet/American childrens' book symposium, they decided to collaborate on a tale with a message of harmonious coexistence.  Vladimir Vagin's exquisite, highly-detailed, colorful paintings must be seen to be appreciated.  And Frank Asch's story of fear and friendship will warm the hearts of adults and children lucky enough to read &quot;Here Comes the Cat!&quot;	2001-12-08
US	49726283	R1OC04U521Y41Y	0670805114	520477775	Metro: A Novel of the Moscow Underground	Books	4	4	4	N	N	subversion in the subway	Alexander Kaletski's dark comedy/docu-drama begins and ends in the Moscow subway system. On his seventh birthday, Sasha gets to ride the magnificent Metro, deservedly world-renowned marvel of Soviet artistry and engineering. Little Sasha also receives a mask, and his future is already clear: he will live in the big city and be an actor! In time, Kaletski leaves his home village of Tula to attend theatrical school in Moscow; and it is here that he falls in with the characters who populate the Underground of his novel. Sasha's bohemian buddies include Stas, a pill-popping homosexual prankster; and Toilik, a vodka-swilling dissident war Hero; Andrewlka, a womanizing black-marketeer and part-time KGB informant; and Youssef, a phallus-obsessed Black exchange-student of Sudanese royalty. And strong-willed Lena, starving actress, poet, musician, and soulmate to Sasha. A little band of subversives bonded together for survival, without propiska (coveted Moscow residency certificate), and often without work, food, or money. Gradually Kaletski rises in the theatrical field to become a popular television star, but the greater his success in Soviet Art, the more he loathes being a part of it. His first-person narrative, both funny and frightening, relates his numerous encounters with thuggish police, backstabbing directors, cold-blooded conscriptors, predatory &quot;pumas&quot;, and disapproving Communist Party-poopers -- all seemingly conspiring to crush his creative spirit. Even while the ubiquitous banners assure him &quot;In the USSR Life Gets Better and Better Every Day&quot;. When his theatrical troupe goes on closely-guarded tour to New York City, Sasha finds life-changing inspiration. He and Lena dream of defecting to America, where they will be free to express their artistic individuality. &quot;Metro&quot; is an engaging novel, at its best when depicting autobiographical realism of former Soviet life. The reader is wholly drawn into the adventure and struggle, Sasha'semigration scheme, and the antics and fates of his comrades. Then the novel rather suddenly and perplexingly self-detonates in a bizarre climax involving an arms-smuggler and a KGB shootout. The author has lived in New York since 1975, where he has had success exhibiting his artistic talent at leading galleries. He has published several books of his abstract works, including &quot;Cardboard People&quot; and &quot;Dead Ancestors&quot;.	2001-11-22
US	49726283	R1PU40GPL5OK16	0702216054	287427793	His Battalion ; And, Live Until Dawn (Contemporary Russian Writing)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Leadership under fire	Vasil Bykov is a respected Belorussian author whose best-selling novels are based on his own experiences in the War.  In this book are two separate stories about two officers' difficult roles in command.  In &quot;His Battalion&quot;, the seasoned Captain Voloshin must lead his force in a hastily-planned attack on a well-fortified German stronghold.  So undermanned is his battalion, that he must place the pregnant corpsman as ranking officer in command of one unit.  In &quot;Live Until Dawn&quot;, inexperienced but impetuous young lieutenant Ivanovski leads his ski-mounted team in a night raid to destroy a German munitions-dump.  After a late start and a series of deadly mishaps, his dream of glorious victory is reduced to a final hard reality: he must survive until daylight to sell his own life as dearly as possible.  Both of these stories spotlight the desperate conditions during the War and the tragic cost in Russian lives for the smallest gains.  As a writer during the post-Stalin period, Bykov is not afraid to point an accusing finger at the deficiencies of the regime and its toll on the Soviet defenders.  But beyond that, Bykov's sympathetic characters, through their thoughts and remeniscences, give the reader a glimpse of the humanity and comaraderie of soldiers struggling for their country's survival.	2001-10-29
US	49726283	R1GDLGY97ANRIX	0553282182	437169335	Alicia: My Story	Books	5	62	65	N	N	History, hatred, and heroism	Alicia's story is one of the most compelling memoirs of Holocaust survival I've ever read.  It's a young girl's personal story, and non-political.  Yet her experiences intimately document the political upheaval during the War years in Eastern Europe.  Alicia was still a child in 1939, but she already knew that being a Jew in Poland meant living with anti-Semitism.  So, when the Red Army took occupancy in Eastern Poland, it was not necessarily a hardship for her.  The Soviets established schools, which were taught in Ukrainian and Russian.  Alicia would discover in the coming years how necessary those language skills would be for her survival.  The horror began with the German invasion and the murders of her father and brothers.  Barely escaping with their lives, ten-year-old Alicia and her mother fled east, eking out a desperate living while avoiding the predators all around them.  Their erstwhile Polish neighbors were quick to betray them to the Gestapo and its collaborators, the Ukrainian police.  More dangerous and difficult to elude were the Banderovcy, marauding nationalist guerillas whose slogan went: &quot;With the Jews we'll begin and with the Poles we'll finish!&quot;  Assuming alternating identities of an orphaned Polish or Ukrainian peasant girl, Alicia managed to get enough field work to provide food for herself and her mother.  Invariably though, her deception would be revealed by so small an oversight as forgetting to Cross herself before eating, and she and her ailing mother would have to flee anew.  Then her mother was captured and shot by the Nazis.  Alicia, completely alone, began to care for starving orphaned Jewish children even younger than she.  By coincidence, she was able to assist a band of Russian partisans escape execution and was subsequently decorated as a Soviet heroine.  The documents she received from the Red Army, and the friendship of the Russian Jewish soldiers who became her protectors, would ensure her survival for the remainderof the War.  With the retreat of the German forces, Alicia began her perilous new role as a guide with the Brecha, a Zionist underground railroad.  Using her partisan documents, she smuggled displaced Jewish refugees through the Soviet checkpoints and onto boats headed for Palestine.  Ahead would be still more hardship...  Alicia now travels to schools, synagogues, and churches in the US, telling her story of Holocaust survival.  I wholeheartedly recommend her remarkable memoir for teens and adults alike!	2001-10-17
US	49726283	R3AO60QF18PJB3	0786708565	687770328	Russia's Heroes, 1941-45: An Epic Account of Struggle and Survival on the Eastern Front	Books	4	17	21	N	N	Courage and Sacrifice	This book contains a series of anecdotally-presented portraits of Soviet sacrifice and courage during the four years of War.  When the immensely powerful German forces invaded on 22-June 1941, neither the Allies nor the Nazis believed that Russia could long endure.  Hitler had stated at a conference of his generals that Russia was to be &quot;annihilated&quot;, her cities and everyone within to be destroyed.  No one expected the resolve of the people to resist and defend their land.  Noted historian Albert Axell compiled many of these portraits of ordinary Soviet soldiers and their often extraordinary heroism from his personal interviews with veterans and/or their surviving families.  Others derive from Western eye-witness sources and German military records.  The end result is an apolitical collection, free from Soviet wartime hagiographics -- for the most part, that is.  Included, notwithstanding, are the romanticized legends from frontline propaganda:  teenaged partisan Zoya Kosmodem'yanskaya's patriotic exhortations following her unspeakable torture, and sniper Vasiliy Zaitsev's duel with the German master-shooter. But the majority of the narratives are straight-forward, unembellished recollections.  Also featured are biographies of less famous but no less proficient snipers Lyudmila Pavlichenko, Fyodor Okhlopkov, and Nina Lobkovskaya.  Here, too, are accounts of the defense of the Fortress of Brest, and anecdotes of civilian valor during the battle of Stalingrad and the blockade of Leningrad.  Here are interviews with Nadya Popova, a pilot from an all-female bomber regiment; Alexei Mares'yev, a pilot who lost his legs but returned to fly with artificial limbs; and a few desperate aviators who survived &quot;taran&quot; (ramming) Luftwaffe planes.  And here is the fate of Yakov Dzhugashvili, a POW disowned by his father, Josef Stalin.  Among &quot;Russia's Heroes&quot; are representatives of a wide spectrum of Soviet citizens: Ukrainians, Georgians, Siberians, Eastern Asians, Cossack cavalrymen, and Jewish generals.  As a daughter of a seaCaptain of the North Atlantic Convoys, I'm especially proud that Allied merchant mariners had been honored as Soviet heroes and are included in this book!  In recent years many of the specific topics of Axell's research have been presented in greater depth, but &quot;Russia's Heroes&quot; provides a fast-paced and fascinating overall view of the human dimension on the Eastern Front.	2001-10-17
US	49726283	R3TWBW9OHV5BYX	0465041442	749892139	The Living And The Dead: The Rise And Fall Of The Cult Of World War II In Russia	Books	3	18	22	N	N	starost' nye radost' (Russian proverb)	Nina Tumarkin gives a scathing critique of what she calls the Soviet &quot;cult&quot; of World War ll -- the Communist Party's gradual transformation of an enormous national tragedy into a glorious, heroic feat. She starts with the early days following Victory, after which Stalin sought to suppress the people's collective memory of the War. He began by demoting Victory Day in 1947 from a state holiday to a regular working day. He banned publication of soldiers' memoirs, claiming that it was &quot;too early... following these great events... and thus the memoirs would not have the required objectivity.&quot; (Of course veterans understood that it was not subjectivism that worried Stalin, but rather, fear of unflattering truths emerging.) And within the following two years, amputees and other mutilated survivors began to disappear from the streets, as the evidence of wartime horror was relocated to special &quot;colonies&quot; in the north. It wasn't until well after Khruschev's denunciation of Stalin's regime that Victory Day was reinstated, and the Party began its stage-managing of the War into a triumph of patriotism. Its glorification reached its fervent peak during the Brezhnev years, with massive celebrations taking place every May. Tumarkin makes many fine points about the hypocrisy of pompous ritual while hundreds of thousands of dead still lay unburied on battlefields throughout the country. And how Brezhnev awarded himself undeserved medals for nonexistent wartime valor after so many POWs had rotted away for years in gulags. Unfortunately, the author's derision for gargantuan monuments, grandiose speeches, and collectable kitsch also extends to medal-bedecked &quot;voviy&quot; (contemptuous acronym for veterans, derived from &quot;Velikaya Otechestvennaya Voina&quot;, Great Patriotic War), whose elevated status claimed entitlement and privilege. Perhaps she can be forgiven her resentment, after spending her childhood years presenting flowers and accolades toaging veterans and having to endure their &quot;yawn-enducing battle sagas&quot;. Perhaps there is truth that the &quot;27-Million Martyrs of the Motherland&quot; are in reality no more than victims, callously sacrificed by an uncaring despot. But such cynicism might then also be extended to the millions of Soviet citizens who suffered under Stalinist policy, or even to the millions of Jews exterminated in the Holocaust. And what of the &quot;heroism&quot; of a mere seven American astronauts disintegrated with Challenger, or three incinerated on the launchpad? Heroism, after all, has less to do with valorous deeds than with enduring and conquering adversity, and providing a courageous example. It would be a shame if rejection of Communist exploitation should mirror Stalin's own cold-hearted abandonment of the true heroes of the Soviet Union. Tumarkin rejoices in the decline of the &quot;cult&quot; of World War ll in her homeland -- &quot;We can put away those records of Russian war songs now!&quot; -- ironically at the same time that American appreciation of our own veterans' heroism is on the rise.	2001-09-10
US	49726283	RU1SP5Q1MAFGS	0891908765	182800348	The Ship Killer	Books	5	22	23	N	N	&quot;killer&quot; novel	Years ago I purchased this book as a birthday present for my dad.  Out of curiosity, I read the first page.  I was instantly caught up in the story, and stayed awake the entire night reading it.  &quot;The Shipkiller&quot; is a thrilling, compelling tale!  It is about the vengeance of Peter Hardin, whose wife is lost at sea when their yacht is crushed by a gigantic oil-tanker.  The pursuit and destruction of Leviathan becomes a vendetta, and the reader very quickly comes to share Hardin's obsession.  The premise may be far-fetched, but the story is so vividly written it becomes real.  The passages on sailing are especially riveting, as are the descriptions of the blighted locales wherein Hardin stalks his prey. Every force of man and nature seems determined to destroy our hero; but the reader will cheer him along every tormented step of his voyage.  I hope this &quot;killer&quot; novel will be reprinted so that many others can enjoy the experience of reading it.	2001-08-22
US	49726283	R2PS9IYP3YHPUT	0380755653	353724621	Red Heat	Books	3	6	6	N	N	novelized version of movie	Recently watching the credits rolling on &quot;Red Heat&quot;, one of my favorite Schwartzenegger films, I caught the message: &quot;Read the Avon Novel.&quot;  Why not -- since Amazon so conveniently carries it used?  Fine's book is typical of the trash-novelization of popular screenplays: hastily-penned, seemingly without much concern for typos or clunky prose.  But it's fast-reading and entertaining, and so true to the movie I could &quot;hear&quot; Arnold's accent and Belushi's sarcasm.  Plus, it elaborates on scenes cut from the final version of the film, clearing up a few disconnected plot points.  You'll find out why Ridzek has a reputation as a screw-up.  And a little more background into the character of the laconic Captain Danko.  Too bad the footage was scrapped of Vanya taking on the champion of the Joliet Prison gang!  If you love the movie, or just want some light, fast reading, you might enjoy &quot;Red Heat: the Novel&quot;.	2001-08-20
US	49726283	R2W2ZU1YNLD7UK	1557500932	608110750	Heroes in Dungarees: The Story of the American Merchant Marine in World War II	Books	5	14	14	N	N	They delivered!	This book is a wonderful tribute to the Wartime valor of the US Merchant Marine.  These largely unheralded heroes delivered desperately needed supplies across perilous seas to our beleagered Allies and to &quot;Uncle Joe&quot;, the enemy of our Enemy.  FDR's stated willingness to sacrifice up to 90% of convoys, with &quot;all hands and cargoes&quot;, proved a staggeringly accurate prediction.  Yet Merchant seamen and Naval Armed Guard gunners -- all volunteers -- gallantly braved the Uboats, torpedo planes, and mines, as well as freezing winter storms and other hazards of the sea to fulfill their duty.  Without them, the War could not have been won.  They deserve recognition, and this marvelous book provides it!  Here are their own descriptions of sailing, camaraderie, and life aboard ship.  Here too are their harrowing anecdotes of war, heroism, and loss.  My father was skipper of a freighter and a survivor of the Murmansk runs, and these stories remind me of his.  &quot;Heroes in Dungarees&quot; would make a great gift.  I intend to give copies to all my family and friends!  Anyone who appreciates the subject of this book will also enjoy Humphrey Bogart's &quot;Action in the North Atlantic&quot; and Jan DeHartog's novel &quot;Captain&quot;.	2001-06-14
US	49726283	R33VX0DU1UIY7T	0297777408	22624973	Tovarisch, I am Not Dead	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Tenacity prevails	Here is the eye-opening memoir of a Jewish doctor's survival in Stalin's USSR.  When the Holocaust sweeps into Poland, Dr. Urban flees east.  In contrast to the anti-Semitism of the Germans and even his fellow Poles, the Soviets are viewed almost as saviors.  The young physician quickly discovers this mistake, as his outspoken assertiveness immediately runs him afoul of the NKVD.  After being subjected to brutal &quot;interrogation&quot;, he is deported to a Siberian labor-camp for the most violent criminals.  Here he takes destiny into his own hands.  By making a preemptive strike against the most feared inmate, he impresses his captors, who reward him with the post of prison-doctor.  His sentence is commuted when physicians become needed to combat epidemics of typhus and venereal disease in the newly liberated Ukraine.  Dr. Urban's uncanny ability to manipulate male NKGB agents and to literally charm female agents out of their pants contributes to an increasingly elevated position in Soviet society.  But he is hardly &quot;free&quot;, and continues to chafe under the restrictive totalitarian regime.  Eventually his duties take him back to Poland, where he finds anti-Semitism still rampant, and manages to avenge himself satisfactorily on his former oppressors.  In occupied Berlin, he hopes to elude his NKGB surveillance and defect to the West.  But his now-legendary outspokenness alienates him from the US forces, whom he accuses of &quot;coddling the Nazis&quot;.  Yet again, he must take charge of his own destiny, and devise a daring and most perilous escape plot.  Dr. Urban's autobiography is remarkable.  Despite the most dismal circumstances, he never portrays himself as a victim.  I would have rated his book five stars, were it not for the numerous, detailed (and in my opinion exasperating!) accounts of his sexual conquests.	2001-06-13
US	49726283	R13HNQW2BCYHWV	089141617X	566077930	A Piece of My Heart: The Stories of 26 American Women Who Served in Vietnam	Books	5	8	8	N	N	poignant memoirs of Vietnam nurses	Some 15,000 American women served in Vietnam, all of them volunteers, the majority medical personnel. Red Cross and military nurses experienced the close-up horror of war every day of their tours.  Many returned with post-traumatic-stress similar to that of combat veterans.  For years, many refused to speak of the nightmares they brought home from the war.  Then, filmmaker Keith Walker spent three years coaxing these memoirs from 26 remarkable women.  It took me nearly that long to read them!  Get out your handkerchief, take a deep breath, and read them for yourself.  Be warned, this is not &quot;MASH&quot; but the raw reality!  &quot;Piece of My Heart&quot; is heart-wrenching, heart-breaking.  But so important to remember. The names of seven nurses are enshrined on the Vietnam War Memorial.  Had it not been for the courageous service of all the medical volunteers, there would surely be thousands more young men's names on the Wall.	2001-05-19
US	49726283	R1F3DUWGZGQ4KY	0440218802	371573172	Bravo Two Zero: The Harrowing True Story of a Special Forces Patrol Behind the Lines in Iraq	Books	5	19	21	N	N	It took guts!	I was recommended this true-life adventure by a correspondent in the American Special Forces.  It is the account of an eight-man team of the British SAS during Desert Storm: their &quot;suicide&quot; mission and subsequent capture and torture by Iraqi forces.  The episodes of their sadistic &quot;beasting&quot; at the hands of their captors are difficult enough just to *read* about!  Yet such was the specialized training of these commandos, that they not only endured without breaking, but actually sustained themselves throughout their ordeal with grim humor.  &quot;At least they can't make us pregnant,&quot; they joke amongst themselves.  Despite the graphic violence I very much enjoyed the writing style and dialogue of this narrative; it's very earthy and English.  And also very sobering.  The Gulf War was so &quot;sanitized&quot; by CNN that it was easy to overlook how  dangerous it was, especially for the elite warriors who went in behind enemy lines.  For action and drama, this memoir reads like an exciting novel.	2001-05-19
US	49726283	R3BL2XOSOSN33X	0968270204	602361022	On the Road to Stalingrad: Memoirs of a Woman Machine Gunner	Books	5	2	3	N	N	just a straight-forward memoir	I highly recommend this memoir of a remarkable young Ukrainian woman, an ordinary Soviet soldier during the War. Zoya was nineteen when she volunteered as a battlefield medic. Inspired by a female machine-gunner in her regiment, she gradually learned the operation of the Maxim. Until she was wounded in action, she served in the elite 25th Chapeyev Division. The author published her memoirs long after the War and her subsequent marriage, under both her surnames, that her record with the Division be easily verified. Zoya's memoir was never intended for Western audiences, but only for general interest of Soviet citizens and fellow veterans. Nor is it propagandic. &quot;On the Road to Stalingrad&quot; contains none of the political agrandizement intended to inspire troops to greater achievement, as was the case with frontline newspaper exploitation of heroes such as sniper Vasiliy Zaitsev or ACE Lilya Litvyak. Indeed, Smirnova-Medvedeva's memoir was not even published until 1967, and its straight-forward and rather humble account of the unsuccessful battles for Sevastopol and Odessa contain no &quot;superhuman&quot; feats of heroism. The author downplays her own achievements, instead paying personal, and sometimes moving, tribute to her comrades. Thanks to the recent efforts of a Canadian Slavic Studies professor, K.J. Cottam, this obscure but fascinating memoir has been made available in English translation. It provides Western readers a rare eye-witness glimpse of the Soviet experience of World War ll -- what Russians call the Great Patriotic War.	2001-05-06
US	49726283	R3DUEFS1972TDF	0809290553	216981364	PPG-2266: A surgeon's war	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The human cost of War	Here is an amazing Patriotic War diary of a world-renowned Russian heart surgeon.  As a young medical graduate, Dr. Amosov volunteered for the front, where he was given charge of a horse-drawn mobile field hospital (PPG).  The inexperienced young surgeon and his newly arrived staff of physicians and nurses were immediately innundated by masses of wounded.  Working up to eighteen hours a day, they developed new lifesaving techniques under the most appalling aseptic and primitive conditions.  As they continuously relocated with the fluctuating front, their &quot;hospital&quot; was hurriedly established in dugouts, peasant huts, barns, and burned-out buildings.  Wounded arrived stacked on carts, packed into trucks and boxcars, or by ambulance-biplane, after having received only the most basic treatment from battlefield aidwomen.  Under the roaring of artillery and aircraft, Dr. Amosov fought his own four-year war against hemorrhage, gaseous gangrene, frostbite, and lice.  His grim accounts of injuries, suffering, and death are at times almost unbearable.  But overall, his memoir is a tribute to the courage and determination of his Soviet people: his patients and overworked staff, heroes all.  This is a truly inspiring book.  It reads like a fast-paced novel.  Those who enjoy true-life medical adventure stories will appreciate it.  History buffs will recognize the locales and various defeats and victories of the Red Army, as PPG-2266 follows the front lines.  From Barbarossa to the Fall of Berlin, Dr. Amosov's journal provides an unforgetable, physician's view of the Eastern Front and its cost in human lives.	2001-04-29
US	49726283	R2G7VQZ885ZZMZ	0837106575	686570395	Living and the Dead	Books	4	15	16	N	N	AKA "Victims and Heroes"	Konstantin Simonov, Soviet journalist, poet, and playwright was, during the Great Patriotic War, a front-line correspondent for the Red Star.  His first novel, \\"Days and Nights\\", about the Battle of Stalingrad, was published during the war.  While depicting events with realism and emotion conveyed by actual participation, the work nevertheless remained a product of the Stalinist period.  In contrast, \\"The Living and the Dead\\" was written after Stalin's death and, more importantly, following Krushchev's denunciation of Stalin's regime.  By this time, Soviet publications became emboldened enough to expose the disasterous ramifications of Stalin's failed political policies and prewar purges of the military.  The events of this novel take place in the opening months of the War, when the Russian forces were being crushed repeatedly by the superior forces of the Reich.  Simonov now dared to ask the previously taboo questions:  how could Stalin possibly have been caught unaware by Barbarossa?  Could he have prevented the early defeats of the Red Army and the suffering of millions of Soviet citizens?  Were the Fascist invaders \\"permitted\\" to reach the gates of Moscow and Stalingrad before the Red Army went on the offensive -- in order that Stalin reap praise for his \\"strategic genius\\" leading to victory?    In \\"The Living and the Dead\\", Simonov also dares question the pervasive atmosphere of distrust and paranoia within the Soviet system.  One of his characters, the aging Bol'shevik General Serpilin, had once been imprisoned by Stalin.  The novel's main character, Vanya Sintsov, a loyal Communist and political instructor, loses his Party documents during an encirclement.  To be reinstated, he must \\"prove himself\\" on the front lines as a regular soldier.  Even with recommendations from Serpilin and after being decorated for valor, he remains under suspicion for the loss of his Party card.  His frustrating pursuit of his rightful reinstatement continues throughout the story.The true heroes of the novel are the Red Army and the Soviet people who shed their blood for their homeland.  Sintsov's family is shattered by the onset of War.  His baby daughter and mother-in-law are trapped behind enemy lines in Belorussia, their fates unknown and unthinkable.  His wife Masha has joined the Army and parachuted into enemy-held territory.  Sintsov becomes a machinegunner through attrition as his own regiment is decimated.  Beloved commanders, commissars, and comrades are killed, or wounded and transferred.  Following the pattern of the author's earlier war novels, \\"The Living and the Dead\\" has no happy ending, no joyful reunions.  The reader, like Sintsov himself, never learns what happens to family or friends.  The War will continue another three long years and there is no guarantee that Sintsov will survive.    This is a fine novel about a nation's sacrifice and determination to prevail.  Unfortunately, it is out of print, but it is worth a search.	2001-04-23
US	49726283	R1HROUFCR6U3MU	0397322968	713995461	Forever Nineteen (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	story of War with plea for Peace	This excellent novel of the Eastern Front is practically a memoir.  It is based on author Grigoriy Baklanov's own experiences fighting on Russia's front lines.  The main character is a fictional young lieutenant, Volodya Tretyakov, an ordinary Red Armyman who has never performed a heroic feat, yet is a hero nonetheless.  His tragic fate is immediately revealed, in the title &quot;Forever Nineteen&quot;, and in the opening paragraphs in which his skeleton is unearthed by a crew filming a documentary on a thirty-year-old battlefield.  So, a certain poingancy pervades the entire story, as the reader comes to know and care for the character.  As Tretyakov defends his country, every day experiencing the horrors of war, he becomes keenly aware of the preciousness of life.  Deep bonds are formed under fire with his comrades.  Even in the grim aftermath of battle, he notes the beauty of his world amidst the destruction, and he desires with all his heart to live.  When he is wounded, he gets a brief respite at a military hospital.  There he meets a young woman and falls in love.  Conflictingly, he longs to return to the front.  Promises are made upon his departure, and Tretyakov begins to believe he will indeed survive.  The reader, knowing otherwise, dreads the story's ending.  This was the author's intent.  &quot;I hope you will find the people dear to you,&quot; he writes in his forward.  &quot;They... just like the American people, want peace most of all.&quot;  Through Baklanov's moving, descriptive prose, the reader feels acutely the senselessness and tragedy of war.  Read his book; you will not be able to put it down or soon forget its message.	2001-04-23
US	49726283	R1OQJV7OH1TLE	0553282670	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	5	84	90	N	N	The movie should have been based on this book!	&quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; is out of print, but it shouldn't be a problem to locate a copy at a library.  It is worth the trouble!  This was the first book to put a human face on the Battle of Stalingrad.  Because the account was compiled from interviews and memoirs of participants, the book often reads like an exciting novel.  In this respect, it closely resembles Andrew Tully's or Cornelius Ryan's accounts of the Battle of Berlin.  When I learned of the upcoming film &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot;, I was ecstatic to think that this excellent book would at long last come to the big screen!  Alas, only the title is taken from &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; -- the screenplay is based on David Robbins' novel &quot;War of the Rats&quot;.  The movie's focus will be on the historically dubious sniper battle and the hysterically bogus romantic interest.  What a pity.  For the real flavor of Stalingrad, get the real &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; and Antony Beevor's &quot;Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege&quot;.	2001-02-01
US	49726283	R3J2LJZT2UGG9S	0553282670	244426828	Enemy at the Gates: The Battle for Stalingrad	Books	5	0	0	N	N	The movie should have been based on this book!	&quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; is out of print, but it shouldn't be a problem to locate a copy at a library or through one of Amazon's affiliates.  It is worth the trouble!  This was the first book to put a human face on the Battle of Stalingrad.  Because the account was compiled from interviews and memoirs of participants, the book often reads like an exciting novel.  In this respect, it closely resembles Andrew Tully's or Cornelius Ryan's accounts of the Battle of Berlin.  When I learned of the upcoming film &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot;, I was ecstatic to think that this excellent book would at long last come to the big screen!  Alas, only the title is taken from &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; -- the screenplay is based on David Robbins'novel &quot;War of the Rats&quot;.  The movie's focus will be on the historically dubious sniper battle and the hysterically bogus romantic interest.  What a pity.  For the real flavor of Stalingrad, get the real &quot;Enemy at the Gates&quot; and Antony Beevor's &quot;Stalingrad: The Fateful Siege&quot;.	2001-02-01
US	49726283	R80B11E4GDEPW	1557503354	39280033	She's Just Another Navy Pilot: An Aviator's Sea Journal	Books	4	12	13	N	N	Strongly recommended!	Before reading &quot;She's Just Another Navy Pilot&quot;, I knew about the author from Jean Zimmerman's &quot;Tailspin: Women at War in the Wake of Tailhook&quot;.  I had seen her letters of rebuttal to reactionary editorial in the San Diego Union Tribune, and to unfavorably slanted articles in Newsweek. I knew her name as a successful Naval aviator and very credible advocate of women in her profession.  When I received her book from Amazon, I opened it immediately, and did not put it down until I had finished it.  What a fascinating autobiography of a most extraordinary person!  Loree Draude Hirschman was one of the US Navy's first female fighter-pilots to transfer to fleet combat operations.  She describes the early opposition to women in the jet-jock community and the sometimes open hostility she encountered.  She details her first deployment, in which female aviators were isolated and ostracized. By the end of that cruise, one had been killed, another grounded for poor performance, and another had turned in her wings.  But with perseverence and dignity, the majority of the sixteen women in the pioneer group had succeeded.  By her second deployment, female aviators had already begun to find acceptance -- especially after one new F/A-18 pilot won the &quot;Top Nugget Award&quot; for best score in qualifications.  (Loree herself earned placement in the Top Ten.)  I hope this book will be read by opponants of female aviators.  The author exposes the distortion of fact they have presented to the public.  Yet she is refreshingly frank about problems which still exist in the gender-integrated Navy.  I hope her book will be read by aspiring pilots in search of a role model. Her descriptions of flying and the flight deck are vivid, and make the reader feel right there with her.  And her pride in her Naval service is inspiring, even though she relates her accomplishments with modesty.	2001-01-28
US	49726283	R39TC3VYJ0R4I6	0486262448	784885058	Russian Stories: A Dual-Language Book (English and Russian Edition)	Books	4	137	138	N	N	Read classics, learn Russian	This dual-language book features twelve shortstories by 19th-century masters of Russian literature.  The pages are specially formatted with Russian Cyrillic on the left opposed by English translation on the right.  The Russian and English texts match eachother nearly line-for-line, simplifying cross-reference. Here is an entertaining way to enrich vocabulary and perfect syntax, for the intermediate to advanced student who already has the basics of grammar.  The editor chose some great examples of Russian writing, including Pushkin's haunting &quot;Stationmaster&quot;, Gogol's grotesque &quot;Nose&quot;, and Dostoevski's macabre graveyard drama &quot;Bobok&quot;.  Only one thing detracts from the book's usefulness as a learning tool, which is that many of the phrases and expressions are somewhat archaic.  There are several dual-language compilations of contemporary (Soviet) shortstories available, for those who prefer to familiarize themselves with more modern language usage.	2001-01-14
US	49726283	R2FFLOMHU9O9SL	0684832267	501968576	Fall From Glory: The Men Who Sank the U.S. Navy	Books	5	21	28	N	N	Complete and Balanced	I've read numerous articles by Gregory L. Vistica in the newspaper and in Newsweek Magazine, and am always impressed by the quality of his research and reporting.  His writings on military matters are free from political bias and personal agenda.<br />I read &quot;Fall From Glory&quot; particularly for its coverage of conditions in the gender-integrated Navy.  Vistica presents a very balanced view of the Tailhook Scandal, beginning with the circumstances which led up to it. The Navy had overlooked gross sexual misconduct for many years -- from Subic Bay's &quot;hostitutes&quot; for servicemen to &quot;Tomcat Follies&quot; and convention &quot;TailHookers&quot; for male aviators.  It was inevitable that such a permissive atmosphere culminated in the drunken debauchery and assaults at Tailhook 91.  Perhaps the real tragedy of Tailhook was that careers were destroyed over conduct which had been condoned and even encouraged in the past.  (Nor does Vistica place the entire blame on male officers and command.  Many female Naval attendees participated in the revelry with equal licentiousness.) Ironically, the Navy's attempted coverup in the aftermath of Tailhook provided the impetus for the long overdue promotion of female aviators to the Fleet.  Vistica relates the struggle of those aviators to overcome military sexism and media sensationalism over the fatal crash of a pioneer F-14 aviatrix.  While acknowledging deficiencies in the accelerated training of that pilot, Vistica reveals a Navy policy of keeping &quot;an inordinate number of mediocre and poor male pilots, many of whom are less qualified than [she] was... The Navy never released the details of accidents in which inferior male pilots killed themselves and others while flying... They were allowed to keep flying despite serious deficiencies because of the 'good old boy network' that is still so prevalent in naval aviation.&quot;<br />But &quot;Fall From Glory&quot; contains much more than just information releventto women in the Navy.  The book details the abuses of power of the Navy's top Admirals and Secretary Lehman during the Reagan Administrations.  How they manipulated the President and misled Congress into appropriating billions of dollars -- for an unecessary fleet buildup to counter a greatly-exaggerated threat from the Soviet navy -- is the real eye-opener.  From Lehman's scheming and Reagan's astonishing gullibility, to Clinton's wishy-washy compromises on gays in the Navy, Vistica's thorough documentation leaves no sacred ox ungored.  This will not endear his book to liberal or right-wing readers seeking validation of their political agendae.  But it is a book which should be read by everyone who really cares about the US Navy and is concerned about its fall from its former glory.	2001-01-13
US	49726283	R1MN7IJ5JS3JCV	0815605838	749215670	Monsters and Madonnas	Books	4	6	8	N	N	From a Pagan perspective...	It's certainly true that this book will not increase interfaith rapport between Christianity and Judaism.  It explores the very pagan roots of modern Christianity, its parallels with the ubiquitous dying/ressurrecting god-king parables of ancient Gentile (pagan) peoples. Since Biblical times, the Jews strove to keep their religion pure, whereas Christianity coopted the symbolism, rituals, deities, and beliefs of the peoples it sought to convert.  Although this is hardly revelation to anyone knowledgeable of theological history, Christian readers will be alienated by the accusatory comparison of their faith to heathenism.  Nor will Pagan readers find eddification; in the view of &quot;Monsters and Madonnas&quot;, their faith equates with demonism.  However, the book exposes much of the hypocrisy of the modern rightwing Christian-supremicist movement which vilifies and seeks to politically suppress polytheistic faiths.  The author presents her evidence and conclusions without sympathy or sugarcoating, and the result is certainly not very palatable.  But that does not lessen the book's worthiness.	2001-01-04
US	49726283	R8RI626EUTAPS	0931675022	365382447	Liberty Ships Eastward	Books	4	4	4	N	N	tribute to the Liberty Ship	&quot;We Can Do It!&quot;  Everybody knows the biceps-flexing World War ll icon of Rosie the Riveter, but how many Americans remember what it was that Rosie and her coworkers *did*?  They built the ships which helped win the War!  Nearly three thousand of those were the Liberty freighters manufactured by Kaiser Steel.  Cheap and fast to produce, spartan and relatively simple to operate, these were the ideal vessel for the convoys, the desperately-needed supply-line to the beleagered Allies.  Unfortunately, they were also very slow.  The ships described by FDR as &quot;Ugly Ducklings&quot; often became &quot;sitting ducks&quot; for wolfpacks of German U-boats and torpedo planes.  The Liberty Ship earned the nickname bestowed by its valiant crews of US Merchant Marine and Naval Armed Guard: &quot;Kaiser Coffin&quot;.  Happily, the young Merchant Marine officer who authored &quot;Liberty Ships Eastward&quot; survived his Murmansk Run with a minimum of danger.  His is a light-hearted memoir, anecdotally written, somewhat remniscent of &quot;Mister Roberts&quot;.  Like Mr. Roberts' Pacific Island run between &quot;Tedium&quot; and &quot;Apathy&quot;, Mr. Elliot's Murmansk Run was distinguished by its unprecidented lack of combat action.  In his words, his crew faced the more serious risk of going &quot;berzerk with boredom&quot; in the nearly deserted North Russian port.  There are no imperiled palm trees in this sailor's yarn; his convoy's only casualties its dog and cat mascots, prey to the aging -- and hungry! -- female stevadores who populated Murmansk.  This is a fun, fast-reading little book, complemented by the author's own delightful illustrations.  It's a tribute to the humble, long-forgotten Liberty Ship from a seaman who remembers it with affection.	2001-01-01
US	49726283	R1U40NW4GA1MKC	0345383249	760372128	Eaters of the Dead: The Manuscript of Ibn Fadlan, Relating His Experiences With the Northmen in A.D. 922	Books	5	34	46	N	N	decent film, terrific novel	About fifteen years ago a Star Trek enthusiast gave me his copy of \\"Eaters of the Dead\\".  \\"If you like the Klingons,\\" he said, \\"you'll LOVE this!\\"  Indeed, the Viking warriors of this novel are the veritable templates of the alien warriors of Ford's \\"The Final Reflection\\".  Having seen \\"The Thirteenth Warrior\\", I had an urge to reread the novel which inspired the video.  I'm glad I did!  \\"Eaters of the Dead\\" is even better than I remembered it, a fast-paced adventure that takes only a few hours to finish.  It's a masterful retelling of the Beowulf saga, cleverly combined with the manuscripts of Ibn Fadlan, a historically authentic person.  Ibn Fadlan was an Arab aristocrat who resided amongst the Rus' in 921 and recorded many of their rituals, most famously a chieftain's longboat-funeral on the Volga.  Although Ibn Fadlan never actually journeyed with the Northmen, Crichton's idea of a cultured Muslim's immersion in a fierce heathen society makes for an enjoyable contrast in characters.  Crichton's plentful footnotes detailing the Arab and Rus' perspective convey a feeling of realism to what is basically a fantasy adventure.  And after having recently endured the Christian-supremicist propaganda of \\"Vladimir the Russian Viking\\", it was a great treat to read a story which accords respect to Paganism and Islam.  So much so, I'll forgive the goofy concept of Neanderthals as antagonists.  After all, Crichton is the author who gave us the cloned dinosaurs of \\"Jurassic Park\\" -- so I suppose, why not also a Clan of the CaveBear surviving into the Heroic Age?  The film stays fairly true to the novel, with a decent performance by Antonio Banderas as the reluctant, but ultimately heroic, thirteenth warrior.	2001-01-01
US	49726283	RF8RFT2A5WZZZ	1880044005	262065848	Nature's Window	Books	5	9	9	N	N	gorgeous	Charles Frace' is one of the world's leading painters of realistic wildlife art.  &quot;Nature's Window&quot; is a high-quality, luscious coffee-table book.  On its sturdy pages are reproduced examples of his art: sketches, plates, details.  Frace' specializes in Nature's predators, and is most famous for his oils of the big cats and their cubs.  You almost feel that you could reach out and ruffle the fur of his cougars, lynxes, and snow leopards.  The artist is also known for the authentic habitats in which he presents his subjects.  &quot;Nature's Window&quot; includes personal photographs of the artist and his wife Elke at work and on photo-safari.  Frace' is a concerned naturalist, and his book repeatedly reminds us that these beautiful animals and their habitats are endangered.	2001-01-01
US	49726283	R1X6EIUG9RGRHH	0520220706	315258570	Maneuvers: The International Politics of Militarizing Women's Lives	Books	3	11	21	N	N	The true &quot;feminist agenda&quot;	Cynthia Enloe is the author most quoted by opponants of women in the armed forces, because she presents the real Feminist viewpoint, which is staunchly anti-war and ambivelant toward the military.  Enloe's arguments, supported by N.O.W., are coopted by &quot;anti-feminist&quot; foes of servicewomen as proof of their own contention that women have no place in the military.  Paradoxically, after quoting Enloe, those same crusaders then lambast a so-called &quot;feminist lobby&quot; for promoting gender integration in combat operations.  No doubt they confuse Feminism with some &quot;politically-correct&quot; positions of Congressional military panels, which are, ironically, often ignored or opposed by N.O.W.  But Enloe's books go much further than simply stating Feminism's pacifist ideals.  In &quot;Maneuvers&quot;, she accuses the military of deliberate victimization of women worldwide.  She makes a number of good points concerning the cruelties of war toward civilian women, but her antimilitary bias shows and is sometimes rather venomous.  She gives no thought whatsoever to the conditions which make warfare an unpleasant reality and the armed forces a necessity.  Nor has she any real concern for American military women or their reasons for wanting to serve. By relating selected incidents of harassment or violence against servicewomen, she presents a negative and mostly false impression of the American military's widespread and willful victimization of its female members.  Read &quot;Maneuvers&quot; for the Feminist counter of Brian Mitchell's &quot;Flirting With Disaster&quot;, but don't expect balance in the views of either author.	2000-12-31
US	49726283	RIJE0CZ11CLNV	0684809745	823776997	GROUND ZERO: The Gender Wars in the Military	Books	2	9	12	N	N	reverse sexism in gender warfare	Here's the perfect companion to Brian Mitchell's notorious &quot;Flirting With Disaster&quot;!  Male-bashing against misogyny... well, turnabout may be fair play, but it doesn't make for enlightened reading.  Punch for punch, Francke takes on Mitchell in his own arena.  Like her nemesis, she employs carefully selected and suspisciously skewed statistics to prove her point, which is that women are indeed qualified for any and all military roles.  And that any and all problems in the gender-integrated service are exclusively the result of male sexism and promiscuity.  Francke capably counters Mitchell's employment of anecdote, albeit here favorably toward servicewomen.  But she also puts heavy PostFeminist emphasis on &quot;victimization&quot;, unwittingly supplying ammo to her opponant's charge that women cannot cope in a &quot;warrior culture&quot;.  Unlike Mitchell, Francke does not attempt to couch her gender prejudices in a witty writing style.  Her book's very angry tone is difficult to read.  That's unfortunate.  &quot;Ground Zero&quot; has some worthwhile insight into an important topic, but unfortunately most of it gets lost in the &quot;Gender War&quot;.	2000-12-31
US	49726283	R3HJLLYP0EYEBD	0446600660	976761954	Strip Tease	Books	5	54	58	N	N	Hiaasen hilarity	I've read all of Carl Hiaasen's books, and although my favorites are &quot;Native Tongue&quot; and &quot;Skin Tight&quot;, I choose to review &quot;Strip Tease&quot; because the film did not represent it very well.  In all fairness to Demi and company, I don't think Hollywood could ever do Hiaasen's dark humor justice.  By now everyone knows the plot line of &quot;Strip Tease&quot;: Erin the reluctant stripper becomes involved with smarmy politicians, environmental despoilers, and slimeball ex and inlaws in her struggle for custody of her daughter.  Sexploitation, murder, and blackmail ensue, but with the help of a good-hearted Cuban cop and a deranged but devoted doorman, our protagonist prevails.  As in all Hiaasen's tales, the climax is upbeat for the heroes while the villains reap their twisted, greatly-deserved kharma.   For those not already familiar with Hiaasen, reading this book is a good way to begin the experience.  The characters are a little less wacky, the plot a little less zany than his other novels'.  But the writing style is every bit as riotous. Warning: Hiaasen is addictive!  Like tattoos and chocolate-cordial cherries, you can't stop with just one.  And after the insanity of the recent Elian' Gonzales tug-of-war and the rigged election, the reader will realize where Hiaasen dredges up the loony characters who populate his Florida settings.  But his genuine love for his home state -- along with his genuine frustration over the rape of its ecosystem -- is evident in all his writings.  Those who appreciate Hiaasen's crusade against Florida's political corruption and development &amp; tourism industries will enjoy reading his fine little non-fiction rant, &quot;Team Rodent: How Disney Devours the World&quot;.	2000-12-25
US	49726283	R34Z9FPBS6I40O	0879512342	746148017	Vladimir, the Russian Viking	Books	3	17	21	N	N	The religious conversion of Rus	Superficially at least, the subject of this book -- the Viking presence in the preChristian land of Rus' -- is of great interest to me.  Historical records and artifacts reveal that Scandinavian seafarers had been raiding and trading among the Slavs for at least a century before 855 AD.  According to legend, upon that date the Slavs, whose diverse tribes were incessantly warring amidst themselves, entreated the Danes: \\"Our land is rich and vast, but there is no order in it.  Come and rule over us.\\"  Rorik (Rus' - Rurik) of Jutland responded, and settled to reign in Novgorod.  The Vikings brought with them their Norse Pantheon, which was assimilated by the Slavs.  Thus, AllFather Odin (Rus' - Svarog) and His son Thor (Perun), god of war and thunder, took their honored place among the ancient Slavic deities.    Vladimir (Norse - Valdimar), protagonist of this book, was a direct descendent of Rurik.  His grandmother Olga (Norse - Helga) had ruled Rus' for many years, but had been converted in her old age by the Church in Constantinople.  In a polytheist society, Christian converts were tolerated as merely devotees of yet another god.  Vladimir, raised by his aged grandmother, had been exposed to her religion, which no doubt influenced his own, much later, conversion.    Prince Vladimir 1 has been canonized by the Orthodox Church as the Saint who converted the people of Rus'. I began reading the book aware of that historical fact, but I was not expecting its content of blatent religious propaganda.  The author makes no apology for his personal Christian bias or for his use of the Church publication \\"The Chronicle of Bygone Years\\" as his exclusive reference source.  It is disconcerting enough to read that polytheistic pagans are \\"godless\\", their rituals \\"evil\\" and even \\"satanic\\".  But the text does not stop there, and similarly vilifies Jews and Muslims.  It even gets in a swipe or two at the Roman Catholic Church, longtime adversary of the Eastern Orthodox.    The conversion of Russia did not occur peacefully, as Vladimir systematically destroyed the images of the Slavo-Nordic pantheon, burned the villages of its worshippers, and forced baptism on the reluctant survivors.  In his glowing description of this violent evangelism, the author apparently misses the irony:  the Slavs are saved from their idolotry of wooden heathen images, that they exchange them for wooden Christian ikons.  In the footnotes is explained the \\"charitable\\" reasoning behind the \\"excesses\\" of the Eastern and Western Churches: \\"heretics would be burned in this world so that they would not burn in the next\\"!    From the perspective of a nonChristian reader, it's a shame this most interesting history is propagandized by such intolerant religious chauvinism.  One anecdote is enlightening, however.  After tumbling the colossal image of Perun (Thor) in Kiev, Vladimir ordered it thrown into the Dniepr.  To \\"cleanse\\" Russia of the pagan presence, the image was to be carried over the cataracts and smashed to pieces on the rocks below.  However, the deity survived the journey intact and came to ground on a beach thereafter known as Perun's Shoal.    Thus, the Chronicle prophesied, paganism would never be erradicated completely from the people of Rus', but in fact would flourish after a thousand years.  Indeed, the Russian language still retains many of its preChristian roots.  \\"Odin\\" is the word for the number One; priroda, the word for Nature, invokes the most ancient of Slavic deities, the rodi, daughters of the Moist Earth Mother Herself.  Slavic heathenism is experiencing a reawakening in post-Soviet Russia.  The Orthodox Church, also reempowered after 70 years of Communist repression, is again trying to erradicate paganism and other \\"false\\" faiths, through alliance with the new government to establish itself as State Religion of Russia.  Indeed, at a recent Church conference in Ukraine, this goal was stated -- along with the suggestion that Vladimir Putin be \\"appointed Tsar!\\"       Certainly, though, the resurgence of Christian values in Russian youth movements such as \\"Nashi\\" is commendable.  And, but for the evangelism of Vladimir 1, all of Russia might have eventually been conquered by Islam.  That could have drastically changed the religious fate of the world.  In fact, emnity between a future pan-Islamic Caliphate (in the Caucasus) and the Russian Orthodox Church plays a major role in Islamic \\"End Times\\" prophesy...             \\"Vladimir the Russian Viking\\" is therefore a timely read.  Although I had hoped for a Russian history sympathetic toward the culture of the Vikings, the Christian-Supremecist overtone of the text was unwittingly eye-opening, and is a harbinger of conflicts to come.	2000-12-24
US	49726283	R1FAHXAZFZUKZK	0806132884	341883958	Battle Cries and Lullabies: Women in War from Prehistory to the Present	Books	3	9	14	N	N	Too much to condense into one book	Here's a women's history which you'll never find as a text of any Feminist Studies course.  The Feminist Movement would just as soon forget their &quot;sisters&quot; who have succeeded in the bloodiest business of men, warfare.  None the less, there have been millions who have, and this book ambitiously attempts to mention most of them.  In my opinion, it falls short simply because the topic is too massive to condense into one volume.  The exploits of Soviet airwomen in combat -- who are curiously omitted from this work -- are in themselves enough to comprise several books. Likewise African amazons among the Dahomey and Ashanti; and Moslem warrioresses from the time of the Prophet to the current civil war in Eritrea.  Besides combatants, &quot;Battle Cries and Lullabyes&quot; also attempts to cover female camp-followers and nurses throughout the entire history of warfare.  In its effort to retain &quot;readability&quot;, the book intersperses legend and anecdote with the drier history.  It is a fascinating book which will certainly appeal to military women and to those who appreciate the distaff side of women's history. But ultimately its all too fleeting glances into each of its subjects leave the reader dissatisfied and enticed to know more.	2000-12-06
US	49726283	RBG0R51W009SG	0141180196	79738796	A Russian Journal (Classic, 20th-Century, Penguin)	Books	5	11	11	N	N	In the wake of the War	Three years after the end of the War, John Steinbeck and photographer Robert Capa made a sweeping journey through the USSR.  The countryside and cities were still ravaged by the war, transportation difficult over devastated roads and rails.  Shattered tanks and warplanes still littered the landscape.  Every family had been touched by the conflict and their everyday life recorded in this memoir was adversely affected by the years of occupation and struggle.  But the resilient Soviet people were rebuilding, and in the midst of hardship they welcomed the Western journalists into their homes and lives.  This is not a book about political ideology.  Steinbeck's elegant writing and Capa's brilliant photography capture the spirit of a people working heroically to restore their homeland but still taking a little time out to have fun.  For anyone interested in the human dimension of the War on the Eastern Front, &quot;A Russian Journal&quot; will give an unforgetable impression of its recent aftermath.	2000-12-06
US	49726283	RJO4Q2PMYSN5L	0671038591	450886029	How Much for Just the Planet? (Star Trek, No 36)	Books	5	49	51	N	N	Trek meets the 3 Stooges?	This book has occasionally been called the sequel to &quot;The Final Reflection&quot;.  Actually, it is no such thing.  But it is the book which *could have been* the sequel, had Paramount granted John M. Ford free rein to write another about the Klingon culture he had so meticulously developed in his first Trek novel.  Instead, Paramount had begun to exercise tighter control over pro-novelists' creativity, and this book was Ford's response to such stiflement.  And by Kahless' Hand, did he have fun with it!  &quot;How Much For Just the Planet&quot; is not just a spoof of Star Trek, but a spoof of Paramount itself: &quot;...Scott's eye was caught by an unusual constellation: a ring of stars haloing a distant peak.  'Look at that, now.  Doesn't it awe you a little?  To think there might be a higher power than us, arranging matters?'...&quot;  (To fully appreciate that passage, envision the Paramount icon.)  So we get Kirk and the Klingons in a riotous quasi-musical Busby Berkely-type comedy production culminating in the intergalactic pie-fight.  Trek purists tend to hate this novel as much as Paramount and Pocket do, but Ford's fans laugh along with him.  Vengeance is a dish best served cold, and this one tastes sweet as a pink n'gaan milkshake!	2000-11-27
US	49726283	R1IKK8NK6FR5SS	0802704506	532735209	Russian diary	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Back to the USSR	Charlotte Salisbury regularly accompanied her writer husband Harrison (&quot;The 900 Days -- The Siege of Leningrad&quot;) to the former USSR.  An accomplished author in her own right, she had a number of Russian friends, and it was for them that she published her candid impressions.  &quot;Russian Diary&quot; comes from the perspective of a post-War American tourist who dearly loved Russia and her people, but was critical of the bureaucracy and xenophobia of the Soviet system.  In those days, visitors' accomodations and activities were closely regulated by the frustratingly oppressive Intourist.  Their comings and goings were monitored, not so clandestinely, by the KGB. And Soviet citizens who associated with Westerners did so at risk to themselves.  Mrs. Salizar's independently-minded friends occasionally found themselves summoned and questioned about their conversations and correspondence. But the author's interest was more in everyday life rather than the workings of the government.  Her diary describes family relationships, housing, shopping, fashion, dining, transportation, education, and careers, with particular regard to the Soviet concept of Women's Equality.  &quot;Russian Diary&quot; provides an interesting contrast to modern conditions  for citizens and visitors alike.  Russia is one of a few countries which still requires an entry visa, but after  perfunctory registration with bored OVIR officials, foreign visitors may reside and travel where they wish.  Russians are free to host and escort their American friends anywhere, and to exchange correspondence with them.  This book is out-of-print, but worth acquiring from Amazon's affiliates.	2000-11-26
US	49726283	R1TQ88RR6GSQK	042516053X	8144806	Choosers of the Slain	Books	5	15	17	N	N	exciting military fiction	The title of this novel comes from the poem by Rudyard Kipling, but the name &quot;Choosers of the Slain&quot; comes originally from ancient Norse theology.  The Valkyries were the women warriors who escorted the valiantly slain from the battlefield to Valhalla.  Appropriately enough, the commander of author Cobb's state-of-the art Stealth warship is a woman, the classy and competent Amanda Garrett.  The ship, the USS Cunningham, is named in honor of Randy (&quot;Duke&quot;) Cunningham, America's real-life sole Vietnam fighter-ACE.  Captain Garrett, her likable crew, and the high-tech &quot;Duke&quot; have their as-yet unproven skills and equipment put to the test when the Argentine navy attempts to repossess former Antarctic territory.  The fast-paced action, cutting-edge yet credible technology, and personal drama make this book a real page-turner.  James Cobb has written three highly acclaimed naval adventures featuring the marvelous USS Cunningham and its plucky female Captain.  A rather amusing little irony is that California Congressman Randy (&quot;Duke&quot;)Cunningham is himself a very outspoken opponant of women in the military!	2000-11-12
US	49726283	R31P1LRF8LHJ55	0764310194	847962470	Lenin's Legacy: A Concise History and Guide to Soviet Collectibles (Schiffer Military History)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	commie collectibles for comrades and capitalists!	Here is a high-quality &quot;coffee-table&quot; sized book loaded with rare Russian memorabilia.  Every glossy page contains luscious full-color (but mostly red, of course!) photos of Soviet-era collectibles dating from the Revolution through the Great Patriotic War, Five-Year Plans, and Cold War, up until the collapse of the Union.  The text accompanying the illustrations is fascinating, regardless of whether one might consider it historical or propagandic.  Communists and Capitalists will find &quot;Lenin's Legacy&quot; fascinating and inspiring.  It is a superb reference source for the  quality, value, and availability of medals and orders, posters, flags, clothing, buttons and pins, paintings, busts and sculptures, and many other items of interest to collectors.	2000-11-12
US	49726283	R1RJ2PKYMZ14K8	0932379796	657096845	New Improved!: Dykes to Watch Out for	Books	5	6	7	N	N	talented cartoonist, brilliant strip	Appropriately enough, the cover of this installment of America's favorite Lesbian cartoon &quot;soap-opera&quot; depicts our heroines at... the Laundermat!  Alison Bechtel's &quot;Dykes To Watch Out For&quot; comic strip is a long-enduring feature of Gay weekly newspapers, but it is best to read it in paperback collections.  The series has been compiled into nine separate books. I recommend reading them in chronological order!  The art is fantastic, but the creator pays particular attention to story continuity.  Mo and her cronies grow and develop throughout the series.  The characters are so real and appealing, we come to regard them as old friends whose lives we've shared.  Watch out for these dykes as they get involved with community, careers, family, friends, feminism, political activism, recreation, romance, and relationships. The comedy is often laugh-out-loud hilarious, but serious subjects are treated with sensitivity.  Heterosexual readers, even male readers, can identify with Bechtel's Lesbian characters and their very normal life situations.	2000-11-12
US	49726283	R3WO5G6MB34Y6	0671695762	117397904	Body	Books	5	9	9	N	N	bizarre page-turner	A strange dark comedy, &quot;Body&quot; is the story of a small-town Southern hick transformed into a bodybuilding superstar.  &quot;Shereel Dupont&quot; is everything Dorothy Turnipseed was not -- sophisticated, admired, perfect.  But although she could mold her physique, unfortunately she could never change her pedigree.  And when the Clampet-esque Turnipseeds show up at the Ms. Cosmos contest to root for their hometown gal, all hillbilly hell breaks loose.  The bizarre characters in this novel are remniscent of the wacky creations of Carl Haaison, yet they bear a disturbingly creepy familiarity to real people.  The  narcissistic Shereel, the steroid-monstress Marvella, and the bullying trainers -- every gym rat has met these folks.  The eccentric, socially-inept kinfolk, an embarrassing reminder of a former forgotten life...  And the brooding redneck boyfriend whose violent Vietnam past is constantly on the verge of eruption...  Thanks to Crews' absolutely brilliant writing, these characters are real and their antics believable.  I couldn't put this book down.  The fastpaced plot careens wildly and often uproariously toward an unexpected, twisted climax.  &quot;Body&quot; is out of print, as are many of Harry Crews' works -- a shame really.  He is a truly unique author.	2000-11-07
US	49726283	R2AA8NY2HMYKFC	0553108301	90950526	The End of War: A Novel of the Race for Berlin	Books	4	4	4	N	N	the Fall of Berlin: the novel	Robbins'novel of the Battle of Stalingrad (&quot;War of the Rats&quot;) received justifiable criticism for its misinformation, lack of attention to detail, poorly-developed characters, and ambiguous ending.  As though in compensation, his latest work is a vast improvement.  &quot;The End of War&quot; is an engrossing novelization of  the Allies' race for Berlin.  Meticulously researched consulting an impressive variety of reference sources (in particular &quot;The Last Battle&quot; by Cornelius Ryan and &quot;Shadows Over My Berlin&quot; by Heidi Scriba-Vance), the story presents the final weeks of the War through the eyes of its participants.  It is written in the third-person present-tense, an unusual literary style which requires a few chapters to get comfortable with.  But the style works surprisingly well with this author's penchant for delving into the intimate thoughts of his characters.  Convincingly revealed are the driving forces behind the actions of Churchill, Stalin, Roosevelt, and their Generals.  Better yet are the characters of the ordinary people affected by these leaders' awesome global struggle -- a pair of Soviet soldiers, an American journalist, a German civilian mother and daughter and the Jewish refugee they clandestinely shelter.  How these peoples' destinies are intertwined and how their outlooks are changed by their experiences gives a human face to events which shaped the latter half of the 20th century. To anyone wanting a comprehensive historical account, I'd still recommend &quot;The Last Battle&quot; or Andrew Tully's &quot;Berlin: Story of a Battle&quot;.  But for a novel, &quot;The End of War&quot; is as good as it gets.	2000-11-05
US	49726283	RJW5HTDAQCDRW	0155010530	887224582	The Russian's World: Life and Language	Books	5	16	16	N	N	a really wonderful book!	I have the 1974 paperback edition, and I can't give it enough praise.  It's simply awesome!  It gives a unique insight into the customs of Russian people as related to their history, their land, and their language.  In the preface, the author states that her goal is to &quot;explain in what physical ways the Russian world differs from [the American], both the given world of nature and the world of objects the Russian and his forbears have created to cope with it.&quot;  In this she has succeeded beautifully.  In many ways, everyday Russian life is powerfully affected by environment and tradition.  Here is everything you need to know before you go.  One of my travel tourguide books claims that many American visitors are &quot;ultimately disappointed&quot; by Russia.  This is because they do not experience the *real* Russia, nor even know what to expect.  If you are planning a vacation trip, read this book first and your visit will be much enhanced.  If you stay there with Russian friends and associates, this book will enable you to understand and appreciate their quite different customs.  And if you are learning Russian, this book gives a fascinating insight into the relationship between the language and the people who speak it.	2000-11-05
US	49726283	R18USYN047T0MS	0814706789	151616412	Amazons of Black Sparta : The Women Warriors of Dahomey	Books	4	37	37	N	N	The best-documented amazon warriors	The mythical Amazons of Greek legend were probably inspired by eye-witness reports of female cavalry soldiers of the ancient Russian steppe.  But most historical record of those fierce Sarmatian, Sauromatean, and Scythian civilizations, except for some recently excavated kurgans, has been lost to time.  Over a million women fought in the Soviet armed forces in World War ll.  And Eritrean women have been fully integrated in combat for the past thirty years in that impoverished nation's civil war with Ethiopia.  Most women warriors have fought in gender-integrated regiments under male command. None have been so thoroughly documented as the all-female regiments of Dahomey amazons.  Author Alpern has done a remarkable job of translating those documents for a comprehensive history of this once-splendid African kingdom.  As early as 1729, European traders recorded existence of the fighting-women of the Fon (Dahomey people) and their neighbors the Ashanti.  Originally retained as an elite royal guard, Dahomey amazons held semi-sacred status as celibate warrior &quot;wives&quot; of the King.  They prided themselves on their hardened physiques and highly-trained martial skills, and constantly strove to outperform their male counterparts.  During two centuries of raids and wars against neighboring kingdoms,  Dahomeyan women increased their reputation as merciless undefeatable opponants.  By 1890 they comprised over 30 percent of the Dahomey fighting force.  With considerable bloodshed, and at cost of some 2000 amazons' lives, the Fon were finally defeated by the French Foreign Legion in 1892.  The commanders of the Legionaires wrote admiringly of the &quot;incredible courage and audacity&quot; of the amazons, who did not flinch from superior French firepower and made the &quot;ulimate sacrifice for their King&quot;.  The last surviving veteran of the female regiments died in 1979, four years after Dahomey achieved independence and changed its name to Benin.  Mr. Alpern's fascinating book has rekindled interest in the amazons, who otherwise might have faded into obscurity.  Recently the bimonthly magazine &quot;Military History&quot; published an article, apparently based on material from the book, about the final battle between the Dahomey amazons and their French conquerers.	2000-11-05
US	49726283	R1ANWJZLOFG6RF	0933884540	296095516	Dictionary of Russian Obscenities	Books	5	12	13	N	N	taboo, but useful	This miniature booklet, small enough to carry in pocket or handbag,  presents definitions of Russian obscenities in straightforward manner.  The  book contains the very crudest sexual and scatological lingo.  It is handy  for deciphering street-slang and grafitti whose translation one might  hesitate to inquire of one's proper Russian friends.  Unlike  &quot;Dermo!&quot;, Drummond's dictionary does not include phonetic English  pronunciations nor provide examples of the vocabulary in witty little  phrases -- which is preferable, since it could be disasterous for foreign  visitors in Russia to attempt to spice their speech with these taboo words.   Moreover, some of the entries are antiquated terms now obsolete in  &quot;everyday&quot; vulgarity.  These are most useful for students of  nineteenth-century Russian literature, bawdy tales, and lewd verse.   Equivalent russkie slovari of English-language obscenities are nearly  nonexistant; I gave my first copy of Drummond's little dictionary to my  podruga in Krasnoe.  She finds it useful for translating the  &quot;unspeakable&quot; speech in American videos!	2000-09-09
US	49726283	RRWC2MZBNPZ2T	0878059202	891563574	Star Trek Fans and Costume Art (Folk Art and Artists)	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Got a Life, Thanks	&quot;Get a Life&quot; is the derogatory dismissal often aimed at the Star Trek fandom.  As Heather Joseph-Witham discloses in her fan-friendly little book, Trekkies usually do &quot;have a life&quot; outside of fandom, and most take &quot;fan-dumb&quot; not too seriously.  That costumed Klingon or Starfleet Officer is quite likely an environmental engineer, a college professor, a parent and homemaker, a Kung Fu Master, a computer wizard, a police officer, a priest, pastor, or rabbi, or even a technician at NASA!  For these people, the creation of costume art is a diversion or a hobby, and the &quot;professionalism&quot; of the costume is much less important than the wearability and pure fun of it.  The &quot;hall-costumes&quot; featured in Ms. Joseph-Witham's book are that kind of art, their wearers those kinds of fans.  These costumes are often whipped together out of fabric remnants, leather strips, thrift-store fur coats, inexpensive polyester or vinyl, crepe hairpieces. The fan interviews conducted by the author reveal that many Trek enthusiasts are attracted to the archetypes embodied by the series' various characters and alien species.  Thus, a fan chooses to role-play a Klingon warrior, a Vulcan science-officer, or a Bajoran priestess based on his/her affinity with that archetype.  And although all the convention-goers in this book are members of a tightly-bonded community, the relative annonymity of costuming allows them the opportunity to portray themselves in a manner which they otherwise might not attempt in public.  @	2000-07-30
US	49726283	R30ZYL7K4FTGGR	0786707224	337332229	Russia at War: 1941-1945	Books	5	37	43	N	N	History for Russophiles	Alexander Werth has sometimes been accused of being a Soviet-apologist.  But in his superb history of the Eastern Front, it is the Russian (and Belorussian, Siberian, Ukrainian, etc)*people* who are the true heroes.   Published in 1964, the work is undeniably free of the Russophobia of an  accelerating Cold War period, probably due to its focus on the human drama  and trauma of the War.  The Russian people endured horrific loss and  suffering, no small part of which was brought on by the policies of Stalin  himself.  But because Stalin was savvy enough to appeal to Slavic pride and  national loyalty -- even to simultaneously procuring the blessings of the  Orthodox Church and resurrecting the pagan image of Mother Russia --  ordinary Russians were willing to give everything for their &quot;People's  Sacred War&quot;.  This massive book (nearly 1100 pages) is extremely  &quot;readable&quot;, being divided into numerous small chapters of 10 - 20  page length.  Poignant first-person interviews with combatants and  civilians, survivors of battle and siege, give the reader appreciation for  what the Russians accomplished, and admiration for them as a people.  The  author has three other books, out of print but worthy of reading,  &quot;Russia: Hopes and Fears&quot;, &quot;Russia: The Post War  Years&quot;, and &quot;Russia Under Krushchev&quot;.	2000-07-30
US	49726283	R1ZAEHKWLYS4SC	0812213793	419122245	Enterprising Women: Television Fandom and the Creation of Popular Myth (Contemporary Ethnography)	Books	4	16	16	N	N	Fandom's female subculture	Being a woman who is an occasional writer of Klingon fan-novellas, I was interested in this scholarly book on fanfic and its female following.  The author does an in-depth study of female fans of not only Star Trek, but  Blake's 7 (a British sci-fi series), Starskiy &amp; Hutch, The Man From  Uncle, Alien Nation, Doctor Who, and other TV shows.  Her conclusions: 98%  of fanfic is written by women, who prefer intimacy, character-interaction,  and continuity over action and special-effects.  (I guess that makes me a  &quot;2%er&quot; -- I prefer plot-driven adventure, decriptive carnage, and  characters of my own creation.)  Immersing herself in the subculture,  Bacon-Smith delves into the very personal and sometimes secretive world of  'zines and fannish writing.  With great respect toward the community which  generously contributed to her study, she exposes the genres of fiction  which appeal to most female writers and readers.  They are the  &quot;MarySue&quot; and &quot;LaySpock&quot; which are basically an  extension of the writers' own personnae and fantasies; the  &quot;Hurt-Comfort&quot; tender tales of nurturing and caretaking; and  &quot;Slash&quot; or erotica featuring explicit sex between established  characters.  Bacon-Smith also cautiously explores the underground realm of  homoerotic &quot;Slash&quot; (sometimes called &quot;K/S&quot; after  Kirk/Spock) in which female fans envision intimate relationships between  the two male partners of various favorite series.  This is an intriguing  book, containing much technical terminology and psych-evaluation.  I  thought I might identify with it, but instead I found the subculture wholly  alien (no pun intended). At least I know now why my klinzines are not a big  hit with the mainstream fandom!	2000-07-30
US	49726283	RUYLLGI2TZ7GT	0811803252	142935050	The Fine Art of Russian Lacquered Miniatures	Books	5	20	20	N	N	collectible traditional Russian art	This is a large, excellent book on the traditional Russian art of lacquered miniature painting.  Over 250 color reproductions of the works of Masters are featured.  This is really the definitive book on the craft.   The art is famous for its tiny, but finely-detailed illustrations of folk  tales or village life, painted free-hand with a homemade brush of a single  squirrel or sable hair.  Real gold leaf and mother-of-pearl insets add to  the beauty and value of the paintings, which are created on papier-mache'  shkatulki (boxes) or plaques.  Many layers of lacquer finish the artwork,  giving it a long-lasting, lustrous, three-dimensional quality (and  incidentally, its name).  Each creation can take several months, or as much  as a year, to complete.  Some of the rarest, most magnificent paintings are  presented in these pages.  The book contains a history of the craft and its  Masters.  Also included are short essays on each of the four schools -- the  villages of Palekh, Kholui, Mstera, and Fedoskino -- which have produced  generations of painters in this enduring and endearing folk art.	2000-07-29
US	49726283	RMQXHC4ZODOOZ	0940202018	47354784	1: Russian Lacquer, Legends and Fairy Tales	Books	5	21	22	N	N	Russian folk art and fairy tales	This is the second of two volumes of Russian fairy tales, illustrated with stunning color reproductions of &quot;lacquer-miniature&quot; masterpieces.  The art of miniature oil painting began in Fedoskino centuries ago, and  today features realistic renderings of village life, portraits, and  archetecture.  The villages of Palekh, Kholui, and Mstera were long the  center for ikon painting, with successive generations following the  tradition of apprenticing with Masters.  Ikons were painted with the  extremely durable egg-tempura paints, utilizing natural dyes.  After the  Bolshevik Revolution, iconography was discouraged, and painters from these  three schools began depicting pagan folk tales, troikas and village life,  heroic legend, history, and &quot;inspirational&quot; revolutionary themes.   Traditional iconic style distinguishes the works of these little rural  villages, whose artists still use the ancient techniques and materials.   Many of today's Masters are currently working to restore treasured ikons  damaged under Stalinist decree. The beautiful glossy photos in these  volumes represent some of the best work of Russia's Master painters.  For  collectors of this appealing art, or for those who appreciate intricate  Russian folk tales, the Lucy Maxym series is a wonderful addition to your  library.	2000-07-29
US	49726283	R3EREY3JYFOIS2	0940202034	299849458	Russian Lacquer, Legends and Fairy Tales (Volume II)	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Russian Folk Art and Fairy Tales	This is one of two volumes of Russian fairy tales, lavishly illustrated with full color reproductions of lacquer miniature paintings.  This volume gives a fairly detailed description of the process of creating this folk  art form, beginning with the fabrication of the papier-mache' box or  plaque, through the mixing of the egg-tempura or oil paints, to the fine  details of the miniature masterpieces.  All four Villages, or styles, of  the  art are represented, featuring the works of world-reknowned Masters.   For any collector of fine lacquer art from Palekh, Kholui, Mstera, and  Fedoskino; or for anyone who enjoys Russian folk tales; this is a  wonderful, high-quality book.  It also makes a very nice gift.	2000-07-29
US	49726283	R38PF4R3RJCOMI	0671666622	402314602	Home is the Hunter (Star Trek, No 52)	Books	5	2	3	N	N	First contact with the Q?	Here is one of the few Star Trek novels I recommend reading.  Like &quot;The Final Reflection&quot;, it is not typical Trekkie fare.  This fast-paced but intricate adventure begins with a dispute between the  Federation and Klingon Empire for possession of Cragon V, a remote,  mineral-rich planet.  Little do Captains Kirk and Kral know that an  omnipotent being from an unknown and unnamed Continuum has appointed  himself &quot;god&quot; of Cragon's primitive population.  Disdainful of  the barbarism of the two 23rd-century powers, the capricious deity throws  both of their ships into peril and their crews into chaos.  For extra  measure, he hurls Sulu, Scotty, and Chekhov into the distant pasts of their  ancestral Terran homelands.  He then amuses himself by observing how these  lower life-forms will acquit themselves under their severely trying  circumstances.  This Trek novel distinguishes itself by its well-researched  historical settings, as Sulu finds himself a Samurai in feudal Japan, Scott  a Keltic clansman battling the British, and Chekhov a Soviet airman in the  Battle of Stalingrad.  At first desirous only of returning to the  Enterprise, all three time-refugees become immersed in their warrior roles  and the moral choices they are forced to make.  Meanwhile, Kral and his  courageous consort Vladra must survive a mutiny, then somehow form an  alliance with Kirk to convince the Omnipotent One of their respective  species' capacity for honor.  &quot;Home Is The Hunter&quot; is outstanding  among Trek novels for its characterizations, particularly those of Scotty,  Chekhov, and Sulu, who are too often overlooked in favor of the &quot;Big  Three&quot;.  Unfortunately, Uhura is almost completely ignored in this  story.  Personally, I wish she had also been sent time-traveling.  She  probably would have found herself among the Dahomeyan Amazons facing the  French Foreign Legion!	2000-07-22
US	49726283	R37UK8KURZQPAW	0671008870	802905261	Kahless (Star Trek: The Next Generation)	Books	1	7	12	N	N	Care Less	I like science-fiction featuring creatively-developed alien species and cultures.  I like battle action featuring descriptive hand-to-hand combat with edged weapons.  I like well-wrought prose that makes even the most  fanciful fiction seem real.  And I enjoy posting carefully-crafted reviews  for books which meet these criteria.  Which is why I can sum up my opinion  of &quot;Kahless&quot; in one sentence: This Book Rots Out Loud!  There's a  Klingon on the cover, but certainly none inside.  The people in this book  are not the least bit *alien*, but merely boring, recycled Humans from a  stereotypical Heroic Age replete with the obligatory half-naked serving  wenches.  The character on the cover bears a bladed weapon, and he looks  like a warrior.  There are combat scenes in the book, but it is clear the  author has zero knowledge of battle strategy or martial-arts technique.   It's all a mindless melee of sword-swinging, no description anywhere of  actual fighting moves to draw the reader into the action.  And the prose is  abominable: here stands Kahless... &quot;a Klingon in all his earthly  glory.&quot;  As I said, no aliens here.  There's a B-story about the  interaction of 24th-century Klingons with the Starfleet personnel of Next  Generation.  It's only marginally less tedious than the bogus Heroic Age  tripe.  I forced myself to keep reading this book, hoping it would improve,  all the way to the final loathesome paragraphs: &quot;As he returned  Alexander to his room, Worf basked in the glow of his progeny.&quot;  If  you like the Klingons, and want to read about their truly alien culture and  values, read John M. Ford's &quot;The Final Reflection&quot;.	2000-07-20
US	49726283	RC2UD8Z3TXZHS	0671743546	488142897	The Final Reflection (Star Trek: The Original Series)	Books	5	43	46	N	N	Kai kassai klingon!	Years ago, in &quot;Best of Trek&quot;, I read a fan's amateur reviews of pro Star Trek novels.  Her critique of The Final Reflection: &quot;I don't like any book that I have to read three times just to understand what's  going on.&quot;  I believe her comment says a LOT about the simplistic  drivel which comprises most Star Dreck, compared with the richness of this  novel.  Author Ford, a respected science-fiction writer, gives us a  fascinating vision of a very alien species, whose culture is based on a  bushido-style code of honor and a chesslike Perpetual Game of personal  advancement and power.  This definitive novel about the Klingons is  presented as a book within a book, and takes place some forty years before  the famous five-year mission of Captain Kirk.  The protagonist is an  Imperial-race Klingon.  An orphan raised in a militarily-structured  Lineless House, six-year-old Vrenn makes his first sentient kill -- an  adult Human male -- in the arena of the Years End Games.  A skilled fighter  in the klin zha kinta, the Game With Living Pieces, Vrenn is noticed by  Thought-Admiral Kethas, who adopts him into his Line.  He joins the Navy,  and through battle-prowess and political maneuvering, rises quickly to the  rank of Captain.  He begins to make his Name in the service of Empire.   Then Krenn is chosen for a mission of great secrecy and delicacy...  This  is a meticulously-developed novel of strategy, conspiracy, subtrafuge,  diplomacy, betrayal, vengeance, and above all, honor.  The plot is so  intricate, the prose so precise, that the story can be read again and  again, and can seem fresh each time.  Even people who hate Trek will enjoy  this one.  By the way, this book also provides the reason why the Original  Series Klingons look different from the ones in the modern series.	2000-07-20
US	49726283	RZSNAIQ160XK1	0837194318	119741527	Berlin, Story of a Battle	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Death throes of the Reich	&quot;As for the ridiculous hundred million Slavs... Surely I have a right to remove millions of an inferior race ............&quot; (Adolf Hitler)  &quot;Kill, Red Army men, kill!  No Fascist is innocent, be he alive, be he as yet unborn.  Kill!&quot; (Ilya Ehrenburg)  On April 27,  1945, Andrew Tully arrived in Berlin.  As the war-correspondent for the  Boston &quot;Traveler&quot;, he was one of the first three Americans to  enter the battle-torn city.  He stayed for three days as guest of a Russian  artillery battalion, during which he accumulated hundreds of notes and  impressions.  For the next seventeen years, Tully gathered the eye-witness  statements, war diaries, letters, and historical information which forms  the basis of his book.  Until the publication of Cornelius Ryan's &quot;The  Last Battle&quot;, Tully's was the definitive work on the fall of Berlin.   The progression of the Allied armies toward Berlin and the growing chaos in  the Reich are vividly chronicled.  Tully captures the atmosphere of  desperation in Hitler's bunker, and the ramifications of the Fuhrer's  descent into insanity for the people of Berlin.  Because the personal  stories of ordinary individuals -- German civilians, housewives, Hitler  Youth, SS, Mohnke Girls, nurses, Red Army soldiers -- are interwoven into  the historical account, the book sometimes reads more like an exciting  novel than a documentary.  Tully's presentation has a distinctly  Soviet-sympathetic slant.  He refers to the War as a German - Russian  conflict, and most of the sixteen pages of photos come from the Soviet  archive.  He focuses on the massive Russian losses during the push westward  and the attack on Berlin.  As General Bradley had warned Eisenhower, a  battle waged in Berlin from street to street, house to house, would cost  over 100,000 casualties, &quot;a pretty stiff price to pay... especially  when we've got to fall back and let the other fellow take over.&quot;  The  American forces stopped atthe Elbe five days before the Russian offensive  began on the Oder.  And the Red Army took over 102,000 casualties in the  first wave of fighting. Tully unflinchingly details the savagery of the  second wave of the Red Army, the occupation by the brutal Cossacks and  barbarous Mongols, the riot of looting and raping once the city had fallen.   However, this depravity is &quot;balanced&quot; by German civilians'  accounts of astonishing cruelty by the SS toward their own people and the  testimonies of Tully's Russian contributors about the suffering of their  families under the German invaders.  It is this human dimension that makes  this book great.  It is long out-of-print, but definitely worth finding and  reading.	2000-07-19
US	49726283	R20BIR67LOX39Y	0688176933	494857165	Hell's Angel: The Life and Times of Sonny Barger and the Hell's Angels Motorcycle Club	Books	4	143	159	N	N	Memoirs of a modern outlaw	I remember a thrilling experience during my childhood in the mid-sixties: while driving to San Francisco, our family car broke down on the Bayshore (101) Freeway.  My parents were startled when two long-haired, bearded,  beSwaztica'ed patch-holders pulled up on their loud, chopped Harleys.  The  bikers spoke briefly with my dad, then performed some minor mechanical  magic on our carburetor.  They accepted no payment for their assistance,  but left us a business card featuring their winged deaths-head logo and  words to the effect: &quot;You have been assisted by... the Hells Angels  Motorcycle Club.  When we do right, no one remembers.  When we do wrong, no  one forgets.&quot;  At least one person has always remembered.  Within a  mere few years, I had a stripped-down Hawg of my own, and began acquiring  tattoos and speeding tickets.  While I was never a one-percenter, it seemed  during that tumultuous era that *all* motorcyclists were judged  &quot;guilty by association&quot; with the legendary Hells Angels.  Whether  describing doing right or wrong, HAMC president Sonny Barger minces no  words in his hard-riding, fast-reading biography.  Nor does he pull any  punches.  He explodes the myths perpetuated by grade-B biker-flicks and  trashy &quot;wannabe&quot; publications, but unapologetically depicts the  counterculture without romanticizing it.  The Angels we meet in these pages  are neither ravenous, rapacious Huns nor iron-steed-mounted rescuers of  stranded citizens.  Barger's raw writing style, anecdotes, and numerous  photos give his book genuine, gritty, outlaw character.  It should appeal  to one-percenters, citizen-bikers, and even to the &quot;cagers&quot; who  fear and loathe them.  There is something exhilerating, even archetypal,  about the sight and sound of a chapter of Hells Angels, in full color,  thundering down the highway.  Could it be something remniscent of the  soaring, awe-inspiring formations of Bombers and Fighters which spawned the  post-War motorclubs?  More likely, like a pack of wolves running wild, they  symbolize an unfettered and formidable free-spirit, feared by a civilized  Society.	2000-07-17
US	49726283	R19K7X57UT9KK9	0613046307	275322602	The Bravest Cat! (Turtleback School & Library Binding Edition) (All Aboard Reading: Level 1)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	A mother's sacrifice	I've reviewed a number of wartime memoirs which document the strength of mothers' love under fire.  In this children's book is the true story of &quot;Scarlet&quot;, the stray cat who braved a roaring fire to rescue her  kittens, one at a time.  The mother cat was badly burned by the time she  had saved her kittens, but the New York firefighters who witnessed her  heroic feat rushed the family to the vets' in time.  Overnight,  &quot;Scarlet&quot; became an international celebrity and symbol of the  power of maternal instinct.  This book is beautifully illustrated and very  simply written for the beginner readers.  Parents will enjoy reading this  heart-warming story aloud to younger children.	2000-06-28
US	49726283	R23CI1BIHMRDP3	0891261184	450523695	Soviet airwomen in combat in World War II	Books	4	2	3	N	N	&quot;Youth Under Fire&quot; --  a favorite memoir	This spiral-bound volume was the prototype of K. J. Cottam's excellent series about Soviet women combat pilots of the Great Patriotic War.  Much of the material, such as the biography of fighter-ACE Lilya Litvyak, has  been recently re-released in improved form as &quot;Women in Air War: The  Eastern Front of World War ll&quot;.  But this older publication contains a  lengthy translated memoir not found elsewhere, which I consider one of the  most compelling I've read.  Written by Chief Navigator and unit-historian  of the 587th Regiment, Galina Ivanovna Dzunkovskaya (Markova), it is  entitled yunost' v ogne, or &quot;Youth Under Fire: The Story of Klavdiya  Fomicheva, a Woman Divebomber Pilot&quot;.  The 587th, which was decorated  and subsequently renamed the 125th M. M. Raskova (Borosov) Guards, flew the  Pe(Petlyakov)-2 in daytime ground-support bombing missions.  The Pe-2 was a  state-of-the-art twin-engined Soviet divebomber, the mainstay of the War.  It was flown by a three-member crew consisting of pilot,  navigator-bombardier, and radio-operator - tailgunner.  The author succeeds  in putting us, the readers, right in the cockpit as the formation braves  anti-aircraft fire and enemy fighters.  We parachute with Dzunkovskaya and  Fomicheva from their burning plane following the firefight which killed  their tailgunner.  We visit the airfields and dugouts where we meet the  various regimental personnel.  Although officially designated a  &quot;women's regiment&quot;, the unit was actually (female-dominant)  gender-integrated.  It included a small percentage of male technicians and  tail-gunners, and (following the early demise of the original female CO) a  male Commander.  The close-knit camaraderie of the personnel, all from very  diverse regions of the USSR, gives this memoir its wonderful character.  The veterans continue to gather annually, although most of the ones  spotlighted here have in recent years passed on.  Such was the author's  skill in capturing the personalities of her comrades that the reader  regrets never having actually known them.  This superb memoir alone is  worth the purchase of the book.ing the personalities of her comrades that the reader  regrets never having actually known them.  This superb memoir alone is  worth the purchase of the book.	2000-06-26
US	49726283	R19QRCB9IDZTO0	0913337307	735497522	Shadows over My Berlin: One Woman's Story of World War II	Books	4	9	12	N	N	In the Shadow of the Holocaust	How much did ordinary Germans know about, or contribute toward, the Holocaust?  Hundreds of thousands actively participated, asserts Dr. David Jonah Goldhagen in his controversial book &quot;Hitler's Willing  Executioners...&quot;  Heidi Scriba Vance does not refute this in her  memoir.  She was fourteen when she saw firsthand the beginning of the  persecution of German Jews, some her neighbors.  Soon afterward, her own  epileptic aunt fell victim to the Nazi master-plan to rid the State of  &quot;undesirables&quot;.  Then followed her father's training in the Sturm  Abteilungen (paramilitary storm-troopers) and her own summons to the Hitler  Youth.  She disapproved of the Reich's tactics, but as she states: &quot;My  talking about [the Jewish Problem] could be dangerous to me and my  family... Fear is a great immobilizer.&quot;  Nonetheless, it is  disconcerting to read of Heidi's almost normal continuation of her  lifestyle -- dancing, dating, and defying her dysfunctional mother -- while  Jews were being rounded up, Allied bombs and incendiaries were destroying  German cities, the civilian population was being mobilized for defense, and  the fearsome and rapacious &quot;Asiatic Horde&quot; was battling its way  inexorably toward Berlin.  Indeed, her heinous treatment by the victorious  Red Army forms the framework of her memoir: while her &quot;insatiably  sexual&quot; Mutti willingly entertains Russian soldiers in her upstairs  boudoir, 22-year-old Heidi is repeatedly, forcibly raped on the kitchen  floor.  Curiously, she survives the horrors of the War with less rancor  toward the foreign Enemy than for her closest nemesis, her own mother.   Perhaps Heidi considered her fate retribution for the suffering of the  Jews, the Russians, and even the ordinary Germans at the hand of Hitler.   Or perhaps, truly and simply as she feared, she was powerless to change any  of it.  When read along with Jewish memoirs of the Holocaust and the  historical account of CorneliusRyan's &quot;The Last Battle&quot;, this  memoir provides the unique perspective of a young Berliner during a tragic  time.	2000-06-24
US	49726283	R3O53KUSUG9L72	0804107327	290692886	Blood on the Shores	Books	5	18	18	N	N	Deserving of more recognition	It is little known to Americans that, during WW2, an elite commando detachment of the Soviet Northern Fleet was formed to conduct raids on enemy bases in Finland and Norway.  Their mission was largely to provide  support for Allied convoys along the most perilous passage of the North  Atlantic route to Murmansk and Arkhangelsk.  This book contains the  translated memoir of Viktor Leonov, twice-decorated recipient of the  highest military honor, Hero of the Soviet Union.  In his own words, he  tells of his team's specialized training and the daring strikes they  conducted, greatly outnumbered, against the enemy.  The action and  adventure is fast-paced and reminiscent of that in Marcinko's &quot;Rogue  Warrior&quot; series, but its presentation is delivered with more  restraint.  Like all Soviet war-memoirs, Leonov's account is  straight-forward and tends to emphasize the strong camaraderie and  patriotism of his unit.  More attention is paid to the deeds of his  comrades than to his own heroism, so that the reader feels personally  acquainted with each man.  Eight pages of wartime photos are included.   Accompanying the story are hundreds of footnotes.  Some of these provide  additional personal information and anecdote.  Others cross-reference  previously unobtainable Soviet military sources with German records.   Besides verifying the accuracy of Leonov's memoir, these provide historical  background data of great value.  So numerous and fascinating are the  footnotes, that I had to read the book with one finger marking place in the  Appendix.  This proved quite distracting to the flow of the narrative, so  upon completion I reread it.  I recommend this book to anyone who has an  interest in World War 2, Soviet military operations, or special-warfare.	2000-06-17
US	49726283	R1A5ZZP89OUIMV	0671034154	865934140	Adventures In Time and Space (Star Trek)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	Trek, but not dreck	This big book is a compilation of excerpts from popular Star Trek novels published over a 20-year period.  Author Mary Taylor has received some criticism for &quot;over-representing&quot; the original series (TOS), but  I don't feel such criticism is warranted. For one thing, there are more TOS  novels in publication from which to choose than from the three modern Trek  series combined.  But more importantly, there are more TOS books that are  better written, and by superior authors.  Samples of their work appear in  this compilation: Diane Duane (&quot;Spock's World&quot;, &quot;Doctor's  Orders&quot;, &quot;My Enemy, My Ally&quot;); Melinda Snodgrass  (&quot;Tears of the Singers&quot;); J.M. Dillard (&quot;The Lost  Years&quot;); John M. Ford (&quot;The Final Reflection&quot;).  There was a  time, the Trekless years between TOS and the Next Generation (TNG), when  paperback novels and FASA role-playing games were all that the fandom had.   That was the time when Trek authors tended to come from the ranks of  respected sci-fi writers who were permitted to excercise creativity in  their works, to further develop the beloved characters and alien societies  of the original series.  Around the time of TNG's rising popularity, the  quality of Trek fiction went out the air-lock.  Nowadays even talented  authors are seemingly restricted to formulaic drivel, which often appears  to be churned out overnight.  Most is just abysmal &quot;Star Dreck&quot;.  There are exceptions of course: William Shatner's series and a few of Peter  David's stories.  Ms. Taylor found the best of the modern series. But she  got a few stinkers too, which only reinforces my opinion of most of today's  Trek fiction.  I would have omitted the abominable &quot;Kahless&quot; and  included an additional TOS, Dana Kramer-Rolls' well-researched and  well-written &quot;Home is the Hunter&quot;.  For fans who own every  Trekkie novel in print, this book is probably superfluous.  For those more  discriminating, this book provides a useful random sampling.	2000-06-12
US	49726283	R2TWVC5B5W6NQA	0252067258	415741031	Red Diapers: GROWING UP IN THE COMMUNIST LEFT	Books	5	15	22	N	N	When life was always a Party	This is a unique anthology of memoirs of kids who grew up in the 40's and 50's, in the &quot;pink&quot; shadow of the American Communist Party.  Most of the nearly fifty contributors of this book are children of Eastern  Jewish immigrants.  Here are their fascinating memories: Joyous ones of  Pioneer Camp, The Daily Worker, public rallies in support of women,  workers, minorities, and disarmament. Fearful recollections of the  Rosenberg executions, McCartyism, clandestine CP meetings, FBI  surveillance, and the dreaded knock on the door in the middle of the night.   Disillusioned remembrances of Khrushchev's denouncement of Stalin and the  devastating revelation that &quot;Uncle Joe&quot; and the &quot;Workers'  Paradise&quot; of the USSR were not what American Communists naively  believed.  Few of these writers still belong to the CP. A small number  speak resentfully of parents who put the Party before family, exposing  their children to bigotry and violence or to the anxiety and deprivation of  a life &quot;underground&quot;.  The Party's over. But the great majority  of these writers proudly retain their strong leftist values and ideals, and  continue to practice the social activism instilled during childhood.  This  book gives a human and humane dimension to a misled but often wrongfully  vilified American political movement.	2000-06-11
US	49726283	RJS228AD2ELXF	1855322110	319059206	Kursk 1943: The tide turns in the East (Campaign)	Books	4	15	15	N	N	The greatest tank battle	Another fine publication from Osprey, this one is a concise coverage of the battle of the Kursk salient.  Strategy of the German offense and the Russian defense are detailed, and colorful &quot;3-D&quot; battle maps are  provided for every step of the campaign. There are bios of leaders,  archival photos, descriptions of equipment, and color plates of military  uniforms and hardware.  Kursk has in the past been defined as a German loss  rather than a Russian success.  Osprey presents it as a definitive Soviet  victory, critical to the outcome of the War.	2000-06-11
US	49726283	RJK3BIRNFL3WO	1855326329	179094302	Soviet Aces of World War 2 (Osprey Aircraft of the Aces No 15)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Superb	Expect excellence from Osprey's &quot;Aircraft of the ACEs&quot; series.  This one, #15, is no exception.  A brief history of the V-VS preceeds the chronicle of its record, from battle to battle, during the War.  After the  massive losses of Barbarossa, the Red air force very gradually, and at  great cost, achieved air superiority.  The progression of improvements in  tactics is covered quite nicely in the text. The book contains many rare  action photos from Soviet and German military archive, descriptions of all  the fighter aircraft in the Soviet inventory, bios of the ACEs, color  plates of uniforms and individual pilots' aircraft, reproductions of  propaganda posters, and plenty of lists and stats.  In addition is  information about the famous &quot;Free French&quot; Normandie Niemen  regiment and Polish, Czech, Romanian and Yugoslav divisions; female  regiments and women ACEs; &quot;suicide&quot; (taran) rammers; and  &quot;legless wonders&quot; -- amputees who returned to the front and flew  with artificial limbs. Readers of this book will also appreciate Osprey  #6,&quot;Fw 190 ACEs of the Russian Front&quot; and Time-Life's  out-of-print (Epic of Flight) &quot;The Soviet Air Force at War&quot;.	2000-06-11
US	49726283	RG86HU61VYF15	0670844659	378700321	The Cat Inside	Books	5	27	27	N	N	For anyone and their &quot;Cat Within&quot;	The Elder Statesman of the Beat Generation is best known for the fantastic creatures of his drug-induced fantasies and nightmares: the Reptiles and Mugwumps of &quot;Naked Lunch&quot;, the ramora-like pseudo-human parasites  of &quot;Junkie&quot;, and others too loathesome to mention.  In contrast,  in this slim volume, William S. Burroughs introduces us to the real-life  creatures who accompanied him throughout his tumultuous career and  particularly during his old age.  These are his numerous and beloved cats,  with names like Calico Jane, Fletch, Rooski, Wimpy, and Ed. Any cat-person  will identify with Burroughs' pleasure in the affection and antics of his  feline friends and his heart-breaking grief in their loss.  But it would be  a mistake to label this book of recollections a &quot;Warm &amp;  Fuzzy&quot;.  Burroughs' affiliation with the Cat is on a quite archetypal  level.  He reveals a recurring sensation from his earliest childhood of  cuddling a small, trusting, but long-unidentifiable creature, and to  realize much later he was &quot;cast in the role of the Guardian, to create  and nurture a creature that is part cat, part human, and part something as  yet unimaginable, which might result from a union that has not taken place  for millions of years&quot;. This resembles the vaguely disturbing imagery  of classic Burroughs, to be sure.  But there comes to him a startling  revelation  &quot;...and now the creature is clearly recognized as a cat  spirit, a Familiar.  I postulate that cats started as psychic companions,  as Familiars, and have never deviated from this function.&quot;  This is a  shamanic departure from typical Burroughs or his contemporaries.  But  Bill's most &quot;off-Beat&quot; book will surely strike a chord with  anyone who has -- or is! -- a cat Inside.	2000-06-10
US	49726283	R1WSLRHA6QTWTM	0963888625	551485601	Because of Romek: A Holocaust Survivor's Memoir	Books	5	25	26	N	N	A promise to survive	Young David Faber survived the horrors of the Holocaust because of Romek and because of a vow he made.  Romek was his older brother, a Resister whom David watched tortured and murdered by the Nazis. That was at the beginning  of the persecution of the Jews.  The vow David made to his mother was  simply that he would live.  The true experiences related in this memoir  left this reader first breathless, then chilled, then nearly numb.  To say  more would lessen the impact for the next reader.  Just order it and read  it now!  The story of David's survival in the Ghetto, in flight and in  hiding, in the Partisan band, and in the concentration camp is  simply-written but powerful.  These days Mr. Faber is a sought-after  speaker at San Diego middle-schools and high-schools. Students rarely fail  to be moved by the courage and endurance of a 15-year-old child of the  Holocaust.  This book really should be required reading, alongside Anne  Frank's &quot;Diary of a Young Girl&quot; and Inna Konstantinova's journal  in &quot;Defending Leningrad&quot;.	2000-06-10
US	49726283	R3CPAU13U3IDMP	067174559X	236489898	The Klingon Dictionary (Star Trek)	Books	5	36	36	N	N	In Space, all warriors are Cold Warriors	loghDaq Suvrupbogh SuvwI'pu' chaH Hoch SuvwI'pu''e'...  Learning a new language may be daunting, but what Klingon warrior does not appreciate a challenge?  Marc Okrand is the professional linguist who designed the  language of the most popular of Star Trek alien species.  Far from  meaningless grunting and growling, the klingo-lingo termed &quot;tlhIngan  Hol&quot; possesses a rich vocabulary and brilliantly conceived grammatical  structure.  It is an actual language, ironically considered the  fastest-growing on earth.  Despite its conciseness, it takes effort to  learn the complex syntax and rasping, guttural pronunciation.  This is why  the majority of its  fluent speakers are serious students of linguistics,  rather than sci-fi fans.  Besides the basic &quot;Klingon Dictionary&quot;,  Okrand has published two other related books, &quot;The Klingon Way&quot;  and &quot;Klingon for the Galactic Traveler&quot;, as well as two  instructional tapes.  These materials provide a remarkably thorough course  of study. Upon completion, klinguists are able to converse about  practically anything -- although it is especially helpful if the topic  relates to war or honor!	2000-06-10
US	49726283	R1QAABNO74I3IW	0380515245	658267053	Thomasina	Books	5	68	70	N	N	Cat Magick	I first encountered &quot;Thomasina, The Cat Who Thought She Was God&quot; in the library of my parochial grade-school, almost 40 years ago.  I imagine the deacons were utterly unaware of what a &quot;subversive&quot;,  shamanic book they were providing their 2nd-grade student!  Perhaps they  were lulled by the innocuous Disney film version.  Certainly they could not  suppose that Paul Gallico would write &quot;merely&quot; a simple  cat-story?  For it is the combined power of Christianity and Paganism,  interwoven with the ancient Egyptian cat-magick of Bubastis, which saves  the souls of all the characters of this story.  Set in rural Scotland in  the early 50's, this is the tale of  hard-hearted widowed veterinarian  Andrew McDhui, his little daughter, and her beloved cat Thomasina.  Resentful of his daughter's affection for her pet, he callously orders  Thomasina destroyed.  When his child falls ill from grief, it takes all the  love of the village bairns, the Protestant vicar, the feared and  misunderstood Red Witch of the Glen -- and the interference of the Divine  Feline, Bast Herself -- to bring about a miracle and restore McDhui's faith  in God.  This is an inspired story about the many Paths which can be taken  to that faith, and the varied and equally-legitimate aspects of God/dess.  Bast has walked beside me since I first met Her through  &quot;Thomasina&quot;.  Even now, as I reread the book every few years, I  find it an emotionally-draining but spiritually-uplifting experience.  And  yes, it is also a good cat-story.	2000-06-10
US	49726283	RTK06XVCLP8P8	0890964017	721143021	For God, Country, and the Thrill of It: Women Airforce Service Pilots in World War II (Charles and Elizabeth Prothro Texas Photography Series)	Books	4	2	2	N	N	The WASP, then and now	Author Anne Noggle is a veteran of the Women's Air Service Pilots (WASP), organized during World War ll to free male aviators from non-combat duties.  American women flew every type of fighter and bomber, from the nimble P-38  Lightning to the massive B-17 &quot;Flying Fortress&quot;.  They ferried  warplanes from factory to front, and helped train young men in flying and  targeting.  And in September 1944, WASP Anne Baumgartner test-piloted the  American prototype jet-fighter, the YP-59A Airacomet.  This big, glossy  book contains a brief history of the WASP and narrative of their training,  accompanied by large, high-quality black-and-white photos of the youthful  aviators and their airplanes.  Their pride of service is evident in their  smiling faces and the praise from military leaders such as Generals Arnold  and Eisenhower.  Their bittersweet sorrow at their post-war deactivation is  described poignantly.  They continue to meet annually, and the book  concludes with a series of more recent photos of the women, as they  appeared in the early 90's.  Members of the WASP have attended as guest of  honor at the yearly reunions of Russian female WWll combat-aviators.  (Ms.  Noggle has also authored the marvelous book of interviews and photos of  veterans of the Soviet women's air-regiments, entitled &quot;A Dance With  Death&quot;.) Note: while very attractive, &quot;For God, Country, and the  Thrill of It&quot; seems somewhat high-priced for what is basically a  coffee-table photo-album.  The book is really a personal tribute to Ms.  Noggle's comrades.  For superior text coverage of the WASP, read  &quot;Amelia Earhart's Daughters&quot;.	2000-06-10
US	49726283	R26HUF6FKWDISX	0440106443	289231323	The Black Marble	Books	5	27	28	N	N	Joseph Wambaugh's best	&quot;The Black Marble&quot; is not only the author's best, but quite possibly the best of the entire genre.  Wambaugh's trademark dark humor, authentic Los Angeles setting, and genuinely likable characters propel this  fast-paced tale about the LAPD and a dog-napping scheme gone woefully  wrong.  A.A. Valnikov, a slovenly, boozy, but tender-souled Slavic veteran,  is determined to rescue the doggie in distress.  His new partner, Natalie  Zimmerman, is determined to get him fired from the Force and out of her  life... until she comes to know him and the nightmares which torment him.  This book is as terrific today as it was twenty years ago, even if now a  trifle &quot;dated&quot;.  It's often poignant, sometimes tragic,  frequently hilarious, and ultimately heart-warming.  Read it; it will leave  you feeling good and wishing you could really meet the characters!	2000-06-04
US	49726283	R2AEX21D5VXGIZ	0891261192	513814462	The Golden-tressed soldier	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Soviet female combatants of WWll	This spiral-bound volume of war-memoirs was translated from &quot;Docheri Rossii&quot; and other Russian publications.  Most of these were written following the War, by professional journalists, and are dramatized to a  certain extent. But don't expect wildly-embellished heroics -- these are  simply the deeds of very ordinary Soviet girls and women who volunteered  during their country's hour of peril.  By October 1941, millions had been  mobilized by various branches of the Komsomol (Young Communists League).   The Vsevobuch Komsomol alone trained 222,000 teenaged girls as mortar  operators, heavy machinegun operators, light machinegunners,  sub-machinegunners, snipers, sappers, and signalers.  Many more women  joined the Air Force, Air-defense units, Medical corps, Combat engineers,  and partisans.  A smaller number belonged to the Armored (tank) and Naval  services.  This book contains typical accounts of female participants in a  variety of all these specialties.  Most Americans are unaware of their  sizable contribution to what Russians call the Great Patriotic War.   Perhaps the most-recognizable to Westerners will be the legendary martyred  girl-partisan Zoya Kosmodem'yanskaya, the subject of Petr Lidov's  &quot;Tanya&quot;.	2000-06-04
US	49726283	R1VTC2PF1HD3OH	1557509247	915545447	Mother was a Gunner's Mate: World War II in the Waves	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Salty WAVE's wartime memoir	Full of gung-ho patriotic fervor and a spirit of adventure, Josette Dermody joined the Navy Women's Reserve (WAVES) during World War ll.  She spent the War on Treasure Island, California, training sailors of the Naval  Armed Guard to use the ring gunsights of Orlikons. This is a rolicking,  fast-reading journal, written in a delightfully salty first-person. The  description of her training and duties is interesting, but most  entertaining are the accounts of her off-duty misadventures.  She and her  feisty girlfriends have fun! She befriends German POW's, drinks vodka with  Russian seamen, and carrouses in &quot;Frisco&quot; with rowdy American  sailors. &quot;You dames is nuts!&quot; says her main admirer, a rakish and  handsome bosun's mate. Through it all, her dignity remains intact and her  pride in her patriotic service evident. A grand book about the  &quot;lighter side&quot; of the War, in the tradition of &quot;Mister  Roberts&quot; -- I reccommend it!	2000-05-29
US	49726283	R1FAK6E0XZLR3A	0826410367	679993225	A Jump for Life: A Survivor's Journal from Nazi-Occupied Poland	Books	5	17	18	N	N	persecution and heroism	This wartime memoir was discovered by the author's daughter in 1979, following her mother's death. It relates the events of the Nazi persecution in Poland, the suffering and degradation of the Warsaw Ghetto ... and an  extraordinary courage and will to survive.  Realizing the fate in store for  her, Ruth made plans for escape. In the winter of 1943, she and  two-year-old Eva were rounded up and crowded into a cattle-car for the  fatal journey to Treblinka.  A single chance for life remained to them: a  perilous jump from the moving train.  Their first night of freedom was  spent huddling together in a freezing, abandoned dog-kennel, with Ruth  licking her daughter's wounds. In their danger-fraught flight for survival,  they encountered kind-hearted  Catholics who risked their lives to aid a  Jewish mother and child. This book is a powerful first-hand account of  terrifying times, and a testimony to a mother's courage.	2000-05-29
US	49726283	R3FCK5UWNUW2W5	0452277450	443307754	Dermo!: The Real Russian Tolstoy Never Used (Russian Edition)	Books	4	13	16	N	N	Funny and Useful	This book is a great source of the raunchy lingo you need to know but that your proper Russian friends won't teach you. And I do mean the real raunchy slang, the kind of cursing an American would get arrested for saying in  public.  Thanks to this little book, I can appreciate the extremely  colorful and descriptive obscenities Russians, even total strangers to  eachother, occasionally exchange on the street. The book is cleverly  written with ribald poems and vulgar little cartoons.  My only complaint is  that the captions are written in annoying phonetic English transcription  rather than Cyrillic.	2000-05-21
US	49726283	R2GT4KPKIROLTO	0891416455	169971674	My Just War: The Memoir of a Jewish Red Army Soldier in World War II	Books	4	6	7	N	N	An interesting memoir	This is a remarkable account of a Polish Jew's escape from the Nazis and his subsequent wartime service in the Red Army. Mr. Temkin's writing is rarely emotional, never vengeful, which may seem somewhat incongruous with  the level of the tragedy he experienced.  His entire family perished, after  all; he barely escaped.  And he encountered physical hardship and  anti-Semitism in Russia. But he gives a straight-forward account of the  Holocaust in Poland, his rather extraordinary rise in rank in the Soviet  Army, and his &quot;just war&quot; -- his personal battle against Fascism.   Credit belongs to Mr. Temkin's family for persuading him to share his very  interesting memoir.	2000-05-20
US	49726283	R1KXTM5OP7VKL3	1556113366	403216177	Night Run	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Well-researched, plausable, and exciting	Robert Denny, the author of &quot;Aces&quot; and &quot;Night Run&quot;, was a B-17 pilot with the Eighth Air Force's 306th Bomber Group, and a recipient of the Distinguished Flying Cross.  He knows flying and he knows  airplanes -- this shows in his writing.  And he knows his history on the  Eastern Front.  In &quot;Night Run&quot;, he has expertly woven an exciting  fictional story into real historical events, interlacing his own characters  with historical personalities. Mr. Denny subtitles his book &quot;a novel  in honor of the famed Night Witches of World War ll&quot;.  Although his  main protagonist is an American B-17 pilot, his book really showcases the  women aviators of the War.  Not only the Soviet female combat regiments,  but the American WASPs and even the fanatical Nazi test-pilot Hanna  Reitsch.  The plot-device of an American fighting in the Soviet military is  not as far-fetched as it may at first seem.  This actually happened on a  number of occasions. (I have a memoir of American POW Joseph Beyrle who,  upon his liberation by the Red Army, joined a Soviet tank unit.   Coincidentally enough, his tank commander was a woman.)  &quot;Night  Run&quot; takes its protagonists from the battle of Stalingrad to the fall  of Berlin. Included is a &quot;love story&quot;, which is something I  normally detest in a war novel.  But this one is tastefully written and  never distracting from the action as the Red Air Force storms westward.  Throughout, events are chronicled with the realism of one who actually  participated. In many ways, this book reminds me of Cornelius Ryan's  awesome &quot;The Last Battle&quot;.  I wonder if Denny referenced it for  his historical sequences?	2000-05-15
US	49726283	R3RZ96U8GLKFGP	0306802538	791708144	The 900 Days: The Siege Of Leningrad (A Da Capo Paperback)	Books	4	69	73	N	N	classic epic of human endurance	This is still the definitive work about the human tragedy of the Blockade of Leningrad. The background and military strategy are interesting and  important, but the chronicle of the civilian suffering is gut-wrenching and  unforgetable.  It's been more than a dozen years since I read this, but  certain scenes still remain with me: The diary of a little girl whose  entire family starved to death. The heroic Young Pioneers and Komsomols  hauling water by hand from the frozen Neva to the bakeries. The meager  rations of the &quot;bread&quot;, baked from sawdust and nearly  undigestable. The poet who made a &quot;meat jelly&quot; from her  neighbor's leather briefcase. The elderly man who was driven by starvation  to eat his beloved pet cat, then afterward hanged himself in his home. The  dead, frozen in their beds where they lay and in the streets where they  fell, pulled on children's sleds by emaciated relatives, stacked like logs  at the cemetery gate, where the ground was too frozen to dig. The silent,  cold-eyed &quot;cannibals&quot; in the market selling the ubiquitous  ground-meat patties which buyers hoped were dog, rat, or horsemeat. The   desperate and dangerous Road of Life over the frozen Lake Ladoga,  established and traveled under fire... Only the extraordinary endurance and  efforts of the citizens saved Leningrad. Hitler's plan was to erradicate  the city and its people.  Stalin was perfectly willing to sacrifice them.  St. Petersburg still bears the scars from the seige that lasted nearly  three years. &quot;Let no one forget.  Let nothing be forgotten.&quot;  Ironically, the human tragedy appears to be repeating itself today in  Grozny.	2000-05-15
US	49726283	R3KT63ZMZ5UH88	0689100647	33902175	The Captain	Books	5	15	15	N	N	a MUST-READ for Merchant Marine vets	My Dad was a US Merchant Marine skipper in WWll, a veteran of the Murmansk and Arkhangelsk runs.  He loved this book so much he read it every year.  And he made sure his kids read it, so that we would understand.  This book  contains a harrowing fictionalized account of the most disasterous,  ill-fated North Atlantic convoy, PQ-17.  Told from the first-person, the  protagonist is the young Dutch Captain of an ocean-going tug, which served  as a rescue-vessel in the Allied convoy formation.  All of Jan De Hartog's  books about the sea are excellent.  It's a shame so many are out-of-print.   This one is my favorite.  If you can find a copy through one of Amazon's  affiliates or auctions, or even at the public library, grab it and savor  it!	2000-05-15
US	49726283	R32ZAXFI7NAGEU	0968270239	102441646	Defending Leningrad: Women Behind Enemy Lines (Part I: Inna Konstantinova; Part II: Masha Poryvayeva and Part III: Zoya Kruglova Baiger)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Should be Required Reading	&quot;Defending Leningrad&quot;, formerly published as &quot;The Girl from Kashin&quot;, ought to be required reading for Holocaust History, right alongside &quot;Anne Frank's Diary of a Young Girl&quot; and &quot;Because  of Romek&quot;.  Ina's journal, and her father's post-humous tribute are  extraordinary -- precisely because the Partisans were, in fact, very  ordinary Soviet citizens. Ina's diary in her own words is heart-breakingly  intimate and a very powerful account of one young Lenigrader's resistance  against the blockade.	2000-05-13
US	49726283	R20IXKT6GN0C0U	089096601X	495386709	A Dance With Death: Soviet Airwomen in World War II	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Veterans remember	In this excellent book, surviving Soviet veterans of World War ll are interviewed about their service in the Red Air Force.  Not only pilots and navigators, but gunners and ground crew also, relate their experiences of  what is commemorated in Russia as the Great Patriotic War.  Ms.  Noggles'recent photos (taken in the early 1990's) contrast poignantly with  the black-and-white photos, taken over half a century ago, of the young  airwomen in uniform.  I highly recommend this book. Read about the courage  and sacrifice of these aviators, and the horrific circumstances and  conditions which they endured, and remember that these were perfectly  ordinary young Soviet women.  Some had personally experienced Stalinist  oppression, but when their country's existence was threatened, they all  voluntarily joined in her defense.	2000-05-13
US	49726283	R36ALIF3DVY6IM	0897332881	268685821	Night Witches: The Amazing Story Of Russia's Women Pilots in World War II	Books	5	25	25	N	N	These airwomen deserve recognition	Despite the occasional misinformation, and the journalistic embellishment in novelizing these true historical events, this is still a terrific book which deserves a larger audience.  Any high-school student will find it as  inspiring and historically-significant as &quot;Anne Frank's Diary&quot; or  &quot;Summer of My German Soldier&quot;. It's an entertaining read for  anyone who would like to get a personal insight of the young Soviet women  (many of them idealistic teenagers) who joined the struggle against the  invaders of their homeland.  And these gallant Russians' story deserves to  be remembered!  Author Bruce Myles thought so, after accidentally  encountering a single reference to the women's air-regiments of the Great  Patriotic War. He was so intrigued that he came to Russia to personally  interview, through a translator, a number of veterans of those regiments.   His admiration and respect for the veterans and their deeds is evident in  his writing. Read this book along with K. J. Cottam's more factual  biographies and translated memoirs and Anne Noggles' more recent interviews  of Soviet women combat-aviators.	2000-05-13
US	49726283	R34VMS2ND9RT2D	0968270212	416008034	Women in Air War: The Eastern Front of World War II	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Outstanding and inspiring	Here is a superb collection of war-memoirs of Soviet combat-aviators from the original three female regiments organized by Marina Raskova. These were the Yak-1 equipped 586th Fighters, the Pe(Petlyakov)-2 equipped 587th  Dive-bombers, and the famous 588th &quot;night witches&quot; who flew Po-2  biplane night-bombers. &quot;Women in Air War&quot; is the recently updated  and revised version of K. J. Cottam's previously published &quot;In The Sky  Above the Front&quot;, translated from the Russian &quot;V nebe  frontovom&quot;.  As in the previous editions, this book contains a forward  by A. Mares'yev, a famous Soviet ACE and national Hero who lost both his  legs in combat and recovered to fly and fight again.  Mares'yev praises the  courage and accomplishments of the airwomen who &quot;fought the enemy  every bit as well as the men did.&quot;  These are memoirs of pilots,  navigators, gunners, mechanics, armorers, political officers, and  regimental and squadron commanders, all in their own words. Most of these  memoirs were written very shortly after the War. A few were written during  the War, including the diary of navigator Zhenya Rudneva, which ends  abruptly as she perished during her 645th bombing mission. In addition  there are some moving tributes to fallen comrades.  Of particular interest  are S. Gribanov's biography of Lidiya &quot;Lilya&quot; Litvyak and I.  Pasportnikova's sketch of Katya Budanova.  Both of these fighter-pilots had  transferred to the elite (predominantly male) 73rd Stalingrad Guards  Regiment commanded by N. Baranov, who was coincidentally the original  commander of A. Mares'yev.  Litvyak and Budanova  became &quot;Free  Hunters&quot; with the 73rd and achieved ACE status during the air battles  over Stalingrad.  Both were killed in action in late summer of 1943, and  subsequently posthumously decorated with the highest military honor, Hero  of the Soviet Union.<br />I find it ironic that there has recently been such  an uproar overwhether American women can or should participate in tactical  aviation, when more than a half-century ago Soviet women did.  And not out  of Communist ideals or &quot;political-correctness&quot;, but simply  because their country needed them. Moreover, they acquited themselves well.  The 586th held the distinction of never losing to Luftwaffe fire a bomber  in the formations they escorted or a ground installation which they  defended. The 588th was the first regiment of all the Night Bomber  divisions to achieve Guards status, and by the end of the War each of its  surviving veterans had made some 800 to 1,000 sorties.  But searchlights,  anti-aircraft fire, and enemy planes were not the only hurdles they had to  overcome.  They also faced gender-prejudice.  Major V. Markov was at first  indignant to be appointed Commander of the 587th Dive-bombers.  This  decorated officer &quot;couldn't visualize how I could command women during  war, flying [the Pe-2] bomber. I knew the aircraft, how difficult it was  even for men to fly!&quot; Markov's memoir, exerpted in this collection,  relates his change of opinion as his female regiment distinguished itself  and was awarded Guards status. Up until his death in 1994, Gen. (ret.)  Markov remained a strong advocate of airwomen's capability in combat.	2000-05-13
US	49726283	RTNW6CYGREGLQ	0891261265	54028490	In the Sky Above the Front: A Collection of Memoirs of Soviet Airwomen Participants in the Great Patriotic War (English and Russian Edition)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Still great after all these years!	This book is the author's original translation of the Russian publication &quot;V nebe frontovom&quot;. It contains Soviet war-memoirs of the three female air-regiments formed by Marina Raskova.  Although this book has been  recently updated and re-released in improved form as &quot;Women in Air War  -- The Eastern Front of World War ll&quot;, I still appreciate this  spiral-bound collection of memoirs.  A few of them, particularly the  veterans' accounts of their post-War, peace-time service, have not been  included in the newer volume.  And Zhenya Rudneva's journal (poka stuchit  serdtse), &quot;As Long As The Heart Beats&quot;, is found here in greater  detail.  Moreover, on the cover of this book, I obtained the autograph of a  retired Russian MiG instructor who had personally met some of the writers  of these memoirs!	2000-05-13
US	49726283	R19DAJL3OWUJR2	0880922737	928137339	Nadia of the Night Witches	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Of historical interest for young readers	&quot;Nadia of the Night Witches&quot; deserves recognition for bringing the wartime deeds of Soviet teenagers to Western children.  The book is simply written, but does not sanitize the horror of war.  Based very  loosely on the factual 588th Women's Regiment of Light Night-Bombers (46th  Taman' Guards), it tells the story of an orphaned girl driven by hatred and  revenge, who ultimately, under the most trying circumstances, comes to know  love and compassion. Although there are some glaring discrepancies--  particularly regarding the combat capabilities of the Po-2 biplane --the  author has done some admirable research for the story. The existence of the  &quot;night witches&quot;, so-named by the Nazi troops they terrorized, is  little-known in the West. The tragedy and courage of ordinary Russian  citizens during the Great Patriotic War (World War ll) deserves to be  remembered.  For further reading, young people will also surely enjoy  &quot;Night Witches&quot; by Bruce Myles (which is based on actual  interviews with surviving veterans of the women's aviation regiments of  night-bombers, dive-bombers, and fighters).  Teenagers will also find  inspiring the memoirs of the Russian girl-partisan Ina Konstantinova,  translated by Kazimiera J. Cottam in her book &quot;Defending  Leningrad&quot;.  For readers of all ages, fascinating translated memoirs  of the real &quot;night witches&quot; and other Soviet combat pilots can be  found in Cottam's book &quot;Women in Air War -- The Eastern Front of World  War ll&quot;.	2000-05-13
US	49726283	R3V542C7MLI4XH	1586480189	972672754	First Person: An Astonishingly Frank Self-Portrait by Russia's President	Books	5	52	63	N	N	Who is Vladimir Putin?	The mysterious new Russian President gives us insight, in his own words, of his background, character, and personality.  A series of interviews with his wife, daughters, friends, colleagues, mentors, and even former  school-teachers gives a human dimension to this cold-eyed ex-KGB agent.   Boris Yeltzin's hand-picked successor, hither-to unknown in the Russian  political scene, might have been carefully &quot;packaged&quot; by the  press to win the election.  His KGB past, while a concern to many Russian  citizens, ironically also gives him an image of incorruptability.  His  handling of the Chechnyan conflict has been popular in Russia while drawing  criticism from abroad.  Many of his interviewers' questions are quite  pointed in regards to the War, and his answers are frank and revealing.   His years of involvement in the martial-arts inspire his straight-forwardly  aggressive but curiously humble approach to solving Russia's many problems.   He might not be America's choice for the Russian leadership! But overall,  it seems clear that he has a vision of a unified Russia, economically  strong, and in partnership with the rest of Europe and the US.  And he may  be the only person who can unite the various bickering factions within the  Duma, confront the oligarchs and mafiya, and bring internal reform to his  country.  Maybe of equal importance, after years of Yeltzin's embarrassing  corruption, alcoholism, and failing health, the vigorous youthful Putin  might instill new self-respect in Russia.  I recommend &quot;First  Person&quot;.  This is a very interesting and fast-reading book, giving us  an unprecidented intimate look at a powerful new leader.	2000-05-04
US	49726283	RN0HE7LT4UC3F	0895263769	369149784	Women in the Military: Flirting With Disaster	Books	1	44	86	N	N	Selective and emotional, damages its own argument	Just for the record, any &quot;Feminist&quot; objection to this book is actually NOT in response to its topic, a critique of full gender-integration of the armed forces.  Mitchell knows feminists don't care about women's supposed &quot;right&quot; to participate in combat.   The Feminist Movement is, after all, historically and outspokenly anti-war,  ambivilent toward the military, and has never offered anything more than  the most token support for its &quot;sisters&quot; in uniform. Feminism  equates itself with nonviolence.  (Some NOW spokeswomen have even reviled  women fighter-pilots as &quot;female impersonators&quot;.)  All this  Mitchell presents fairly factually in Chapter 9 of his book.  And he  presents various other sound arguments against full gender-integration of  combat operations.  But unfortunately for this very important topic, all of  Mitchell's points are rendered questionable due to his passionate misogyny  which he does not quite conceal with his witty, snide writing style.  Over  and over, the reader is subjected to Mitchell's personal opinion that women  are immoral, unintelligent, inferior, carnal beings completely lacking any  noble or admirable human qualities.  Noncombatant, civilian women are  &quot;passive, dependent&quot; parasites of society; Feminists are  contemptible peaceniks whose agenda is to castrate the manhood of the  military and males in general.  Servicewomen and female officers are  motivated by personal gain, never by patriotism or love of country.   Although historical war campaigns have little in common with modern  military actions (and therefore no bearing on his argument), Mitchell goes  out of his way to deny the existence of historically authentic women  soldiers: Saramatean, Scythian, and Dahomean amazons are denounced as  &quot;fantasy&quot;; Soviet WWll veterans as &quot;propaganda&quot;; and he  dismisses the entire female contribution to the Resistance and Partisan  Movements with a flippant allusion to &quot;Carlos the Jackal&quot;.   Throughout the book, he exhibits a carefully selective reporting style,  guilefully twisting data and statistics, and skillfully quoting  out-of-context to put the worst possible spin against American  servicewomen.  The subtitle of his book is revealing:  from the adulterous  Kelly Flynn to the antics at Tailhook to the &quot;predatory&quot; recruits  at Aberdeen, Mitchell blames women for all the sexual scandal in the  military.  Many of his accusations read as wildly emotional ranting, and  some would be funny if not so blatently outrageous.  In all, he severely  discredits his own position.  For a much more balanced and intelligent  presentation of the same topic, by an author who supports Mitchell's  position without his emotional &quot;baggage&quot;, I recommend Stephanie  Gutmann's &quot;The Kinder, Gentler Military: Can It Still Win Wars?&quot;	2000-04-30
US	49726283	R394FWTS9H6HNE	0968270220	276355227	Women in War and Resistance: Selected Biographies of Soviet Women Soldiers	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Heroes of the Soviet Union	I enjoyed the mini biographies of 100 female recipients of their country's highest individual's military honor -- Hero of the Soviet Union.  Most of these heroines were average Russian teens and young women; all volunteered  during their homeland's hour of need.  Frequently undertrained and  poorly-equipped, they acquitted themselves well, proving their dedication  and willingness to sacrifice.  As is the case with many of their male  counterparts, a large percentage of these Geroini were decorated  posthumously.  Of the ones who survived the War, many are now gone.  I hope  K.J. Cottam's books and translated memoirs will reach a large audience,  that these women's memories will continue to receive the recognition they  deserve.	2000-04-11
US	49726283	R3QCFE3K9QXOOG	0553108174	298857171	War Of The Rats	Books	4	78	84	N	N	Ultimately a bit of a let-down	I was expecting somewhat more from this novel than it delivered.  The setting was excellent, and I have no problem with the \\"pro-Russian\\" slant which offended some other readers -- it was,  after all, written from the Russian protagonists' perspective.  Keeping in  mind the Commissars' propagandic exploitation of Soviet heroes, I found the  \\"noble\\" portrayals of the Red Army appropriate and realistic.   Some of the technical discrepancies were distracting, but in general not  enough to ruin it for this reader. It's a novel, after all, a fictionalized  account of real historical events and people.  (Zaitsev's training of his  \\"hares\\" is well-documented, although it's questionable whether  the \\"famous\\" duel ever actually occurred.) What damages the book,  in my opinion, is the sappy love-story. It really detracts from the gritty  realism of the Battle of Stalingrad.  I'm glad the character of Tanya was  included, since many female combatants fought and died for their  Motherland.  I wish she had been written as the Ukrainian upon whom her  character was based; maybe the author felt that an American presence was  needed to \\"connect\\" his American readers to a Soviet conflict.   But the \\"hot-to-trot\\" seductiveness of Tanya dishonors the sacrifices of Zaitsev's real women snipers, who had no time for bed-hopping antics.  And the \\"romantic\\" scenes were simply unbelievable --  (lovemaking after crawling through the muck of a sewer?  after lying in  wait for hours in the freezing snow?)-- and so excruciatingly clumsily  written that this reader was actually embarrassed for the characters.   Moreover, the sexual situations undermine the real Tanya's war record: she was already a partisan and sniper before meeting Zaitsev, and scored some 81 kills in avenging her family.  (For more  accurate depiction of the contributions of Soviet women to the Great  Patriotic War, read \\"On the Road to Stalingrad\\", K.J. Kottam's  translation of the memoirs of a woman machine-gunner; or \\"NightWitches\\", Bruce Myle's story of Soviet female combat-aviators.) The romantic interludes also degrade the characterization of  Vasya Zaitsev, the sniper.  Here is a real-life person and a legendary hunt in an embattled city, which hold fascination aplenty, with no need for superfluous embellishment.  Overall, I enjoyed the book because of my interest in the War on the  Eastern Front, my love for Russia and her people, and my appreciation for  the exploits of Vasiliy Zaitsev.  I wish the author had paid a little more  attention to the details of battle and a little less to the \\"matters  of the heart\\".  What could have been an extraordinary, exciting read  was ultimately reduced to entertaining fluff.  This is a good book with  which to occupy your time during a 12-hour airflight.	2000-04-09
