US	49737439	R3EWXYD663V6CX	1576753093	373832301	The People's Business: Controlling Corporations and Restoring Democracy	Books	5	28	28	N	N	Two Biggest Problems Facing America: Out-of-Control Corporatism & Blind Militarism	Two Biggest Problems Facing America:  Out-of-Control Corporatism & Blind Militarism<br /><br />This book performs the crucial service of organizing and structuring our thoughts about the seemingly remote possibility of popular containment of the pervasive and widespread corporate abuse, which has devastated our lives and now poses a very real threat to the continuation of human life as a whole.  How do we pressure Congress (predominantly bought and signed for by the corps) to even begin to introduce the topic of corporate reform in legislative discussion?  This challenge, the argument here, well grounded in fact, takes up.<br />The authors list seven basic strategies:<br />1. Crack Down on Corporate Crime<br />A permanent, well-funded and staffed corporate crime division should be established within the Justice Department. Budgets for Justice Dept agencies responsible for pursuing corporate criminals such as the SEC should be beefed up.  An annual corporate crime report equivalent to the one the FBI produces on street crime should be generated.  Federal acquisition regulations should be tightened so lawbreaking corporations do not receive any fraction of the $265 billion worth of government contracts given out each year.<br />2. Rein in the Imperial CEO's<br />Warren Buffett once suggested that willingness to curb excessive CEO pay is \\"the acid test of corporate reform.\\" Yet the ratio of average large company CEO pay ($11.8 million) to average worker pay ($27,460) spiked from 301 to 1 in 2003 to 403 to 1 in 2004.  While Wal-Mart paid CEO Lee Scott 871 times what it paid the average \\"associate,\\" the ratio between executive and worker pay in Europe hovers closer to 25 to 1.  In 1982 the ratio at US corporations was about 42 to1; by 2000 it had spiraled to about 525 to 1.<br />The SEC should give shareholders - the true owners of the corporations - the right to curb out-of-control executive pay packages, which often expand while the companies' earnings and performance decline.  Representative Martin Sabo in July 2005 introduced the Income Equity Act, which would eliminate tax deductions for executive compensation exceeding twenty-five times that of the company's lowest-paid full-time employee.<br />3. Shore Up the Civil Justice System<br />This strategy stands in direct opposition to the current trend of \\"tort reform\\" legislation now pouring through Congress.  One of the lost lessons of Enron and other corporate crime scandals is how Washington's deregulation created an incentive for the market system's professional \\"gatekeepers\\" - the accountants, bankers, and attorneys - to avoid their responsibilities and, in some cases, even aid and abet the fraud.  \\"Tort-reform\\" type legislation, such as the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act (PSLRA) of 1995, weakening the ability of shareholder victims of corporate fraud to sue, embolden the corporate perpetrators of such frauds to cook the books.  So-called \\"tort-reform\\" provides incentive for even further corporate abuse - and although the facts are in (see [...] [...] civic and political organization to safeguard the public's right to protect itself against such abuse must be enhanced.  The process of establishing such safeguards as legal institutions begins with education.  Most Americans have no understanding as to the degree to which the twisted \\"tort-reform\\" argument threatens not only their interests, but their personal safety.<br />4. Regulate in the Public Interest<br />The ferocious corporate assault over the past quarter century (since the advent of the Reagan Administration) on regulations that worked has cost lives, health, and trillions of dollars.  Most of the companies involved in recent giant accounting<br />scams fall within the industrial sectors that were radically deregulated just years before - energy, banking, brokerage, and telecommunications.  In these industries, deregulation, or taking the government cop off the corporate beat, created a kind of gold rush mentality.  The authors claim that much of the investment craze of the past two decades has been in part fueled by deceptive scenarios emanating from this situation: a false sense of prosperity bolstered by phony accounting practices.<br />Corporate lobbies have blocked much needed reforms and resources for corporate law enforcement, which almost passed during the 1970's.  The widening schism between `have' and `have not' and wholesale destruction of our environment are<br />thus the direct legacy of `Reaganomics'.  The successful effort to reverse all of the directives and directions of the New Deal - the defamation of indisputably the greatest and most benevolent American  president of the last century, FDR - in deference to the sleezy, big money favoritism of the corporate spokesperson, Reagan - is a remarkable chronicle of how easily a significant percentage of Americans, through stubborn adherence to cultivated ignorance, can be hyped and manipulated into voting against their own  best interests.<br />  5. Trust-Busting in the New Century: Start With the Media<br />The so-called `free' market is not free for all, but for the very few - the playing field is hardly level, and conditions are worsening.  How are the corporations in evident domestic and international collusion able to avoid regulation, fix prices, and `brand the world'?  We need new and powerful legal instruments to assert and enforce popular control over the corporations, effective anti-trust legislation.<br />The primary means of corporate control over the American public has been through a corporate-owned media.  `De-regulation' and regular practices of wild corporate abuse have been sold, through an orchestrated media campaign, by a press which, without a hint of dissent, uniformly obeys the whims of a powerful few.  As Louis Brandeis famously put it: \\"We can have democracy in this country, or we can have wealth concentrated in the hands of a few, but we can't have both.\\"<br />The key to corporate reform is a vibrant press.  When the media fail to provide coverage of civic engagement, change is difficult.  Because today's media are essentially dominated by six multinational conglomerates, much of the news sounds and looks the same, regardless of what channel we may be watching or what newspaper we may be reading and regardless of our own political views.  One way to insure the broader spectrum of opinion necessary for a healthy democracy is to enact competition rules - limits on cross-media ownership, especially in localities, and on vertical integration, for example - that essentially mandate diversities by prohibiting media conglomerates and restoring the fairness doctrine on the public airwaves.<br />In addition to advancing the nonprofit, noncommercial media outlets, including low-power radio, today's media activists are battling the corporate takeover of new media technologies like community wireless networks, key community assets that deserve to be protected from predatory corporations.  Meanwhile, legislation, which would reduce media concentration and restore fairness to broadcasting, such as Representative Hinchley's Media Ownership Reform Act, remains stalled by powerful interests with an opposed agenda.<br />6. Get Corporations Out of Our Elections<br />The cost of running for a seat in the House Of Representatives is more than $1 million.  The cost of winning a seat in the Senate is well over $5 million - run ning nearly as high as $40 million  in the largest states.  The Bush/Cheney 2004 re-election campaign spent $367 million.  As a result, those who run for office package their candidacies in a manner attractive to those with money. Roughly 75 percent of the money raised in campaigns comes from business or business related interests.  Corporations are legal entities, not human beings: as such, they should be prohibited from contributing to campaigns, sponsoring PACs or lobbying.<br />7. Reclaim the Constitution<br />The court-made doctrine of\\"corporate personhood,\\" created by  pro-corporate judicial activists in the late nineteenth century, continues to expand as the result of a well-orchestrated \\"business civil liberties\\" movement led by dozens of corporate-front legal groups and right-wing think tanks. The consequences are far-reaching and often insidious.  Corporations' growing use of referendums to advance their economic interests and the intrusion of commercial advertising into the public sphere are often legitimized by questionable claims to First Amendment speech rights. Corporations also increasingly use constitutional challenges to undermine local decision-making authority and federal regulations and to impede the right of association by workers, consumers, and small investors.<br />The relentless colonization of the Constitution by corporations and their proxies has overwhelmed citizens' ability to express their collective interest and exercise their sovereign authority over big business. Comprehensive corporate reform should be a central concern of progressive legislators.  But they must drop the bills in the hopper to get the discussion under way.  Avoidance of corporate power issues reaches deeply into both parties.  This problem was reflected in the non-questioning of former corporate attorney John Roberts during his Senate confirmation hearings for the post of Justice of the Supreme Court - not an insignificant portent for our future.<br />We must reclaim the lost understanding that corporations are creations of the state - chartered under the premise that they will serve the public good - as our servants, not our masters.  By restoring the sovereignty of citizen democracy, we will be able to create a more just and sustainable economy, driven by values of humanity and community, rather than relentless pursuit of short-term financial profit at any cost - market and military - to the innocent peoples of the world.<br /><br />(...)coverage of civic engagement, change is difficult.  Because today's media are essentially dominated by six multinational conglomerates, much of the news sounds and looks the same, regardless of what channel we may be watching or what newspaper we may be reading and regardless of our own political views.  One way to insure the broader spectrum of opinion necessary for a healthy democracy is to enact competition rules - limits on cross-media ownership, especially in localities, and on vertical integration, for example - that essentially mandate diversities by prohibiting media conglomerates and restoring the fairness doctrine on the public airwaves.  In addition to advancing the nonprofit, noncommercial media outlets, including low-power radio, today's media activists are battling the corporate takeover of new media technologies like community wireless networks, key community assets that deserve to be protected from predatory corporations.  Meanwhile, legislation, which would reduce media concentration and restore fairness to broadcasting, such as Representative Hinchley's Media Ownership Reform Act, remains stalled by powerful interests with an opposed agenda.  6. Get Corporations Out of Our Elections  The cost of running for a seat in the House Of Representatives is more than $1 million.  The cost of winning a seat in the Senate is well over $5 million - run ning nearly as high as $40 million  in the largest states.  The Bush/Cheney 2004 re-election campaign spent $367 million.  As a result, those who run for office package their candidacies in a manner attractive to those with money. Roughly 75 percent of the money raised in campaigns comes from business or business related interests.  Corporations are legal entities, not human beings: as such, they should be prohibited from contributing to campaigns, sponsoring PACs or lobbying.  7. Reclaim the Constitution  The court-made doctrine of \\"corporate personhood,\\" created by  pro-corporate judicial activists in the latenineteenth century, continues to expand as the result of a well-orchestrated \\"business civil liberties\\" movement led by dozens of corporate-front legal groups and right-wing think tanks. The consequences are far-reaching and often insidious.  Corporations' growing use of referendums to advance their economic interests and the intrusion of commercial advertising into the public sphere are often legitimized by questionable claims to First Amendment speech rights. Corporations also increasingly use constitutional challenges to undermine local decision-making authority and federal regulations and to impede the right of association by workers, consumers, and small investors.  The relentless colonization of the Constitution by corporations and their proxies has overwhelmed citizens' ability to express their collective interest and exercise their sovereign authority over big business. Comprehensive corporate reform should be a central concern of progressive legislators.  But they must drop the bills in the hopper to get the discussion under way.  Avoidance of corporate power issues reaches deeply into both parties.  This problem was reflected in the non-questioning of former corporate attorney John Roberts during his Senate confirmation hearings for the post of Justice of the Supreme Court - not an insignificant portent for our future.  We must reclaim the lost understanding that corporations are creations of the state - chartered under the premise that they will serve the public good - as our servants, not our masters.  By restoring the sovereignty of citizen democracy, we will be able to create a more just and sustainable economy, driven by values of humanity and community, rather than relentless pursuit of short-term financial profit at any cost - market and military - to the innocent peoples of the world.    (...)	2005-10-08
US	49737439	RYCGA565KO8KQ	0691123500	4067989	The Myth of the Eternal Return: Cosmos and History (Bollingen Series (General))	Books	5	57	67	N	N	Human Destiny as the Product of Consciousness	Somewhere on the cover, or in the preface, or even in the introductions to other of his many profound works in the field of comparative religious studies, one will find Eliade's famous counsel: \\"I consider it the most significant of my books; and when asked in what order they should be read, I always recommend beginning with The Myth of the Eternal Return.\\"  One of the enduring monuments of twentieth century academic writing, The Myth of the Eternal Return expounds Eliade's seminal ruminations on the advent of the nuclear, or post-modern era - the naissance of our capacity for apocalyptic self-annihilation - an attempt to demonstrate in analyzable terms the relation between the foundations of the contemporary psyche to the seemingly adventitious madness which actively anticipates (and even militates in favor of) an end-time, an Armageddon, a Judgment Day, if you will.  Eliade thus asks the arch-question: \\"What can protect us from the terror of history?\\"<br /><br />The discussion is framed within a comparison between what Eliade deems as the distinctive difference between the ancient and modern, the archaic (or primitive) and contemporary world-view.  The modern envisions reality as a series of events which fulminate in a linear, progressive history - a history which had a beginning and will have an end.  The ancient experiences reality as an endless, cyclic repetition of primordial acts. \\"... the life of archaic man (a life reduced to the repetition of archetypal acts, that is, to categories and not to events, to the unceasing rehearsal of the same primordial myths) although it takes place in time, does not bear the burden of time, does not record time's irreversibility; in other words, completely ignores what is especially characteristic and decisive in a consciousness of time.  Like the mystic, like the religious man in general, the primitive lives in a continual present.  (And it is in this sense that the religious man may be said to be a `primitive'; he repeats the gestures of another and, through this repetition, lives always in an atemporal present.)\\"<br /><br />Eliade points to the centrality of the lunar cycle in the mythological fabric woven from this perspective, which, to a degree, envelops our own world-view, however linear and eschatologically determinate.  \\"The phases of the moon - appearance, increase, wane, disappearance, followed by reappearance after three nights of darkness - have played an immense part in the elaboration of cyclical concepts.  We find analogous concepts especially in the archaic apocalypses and anthropogonies; deluge or flood puts an end to an exhausted and sinful humanity, and a new regenerated humanity is born, usually from a mythical `ancestor' who escaped the catastrophe, or from a lunar animal.\\"  Regeneration of humanity is thus always implied in its destruction.  In the natural imaging, like the seasons, we assure ourselves, fall and dissolution are ever succeeded by renewal. \\"... just as the disappearance of the moon is never final, since it is necessarily followed by a new moon, the disappearance of man is not final either; in particular, even the disappearance of an entire humanity ... is never total ...\\"  As the modern (historical) cultures translate this concept, \\"this optimism can be reduced to a consciousness of the normality of the cyclical catastrophe, to the certainty that it has a meaning and, above all, that it is never final... In the `lunar perspective', the death of the individual and the periodic death of humanity are necessary, even as the three days of darkness preceding the `rebirth' of the moon are necessary. The death of the individual and the death of humanity are alike necessary for their regeneration ...  what predominates in all these cosmico-mythological lunar conceptions is the cyclical occurrence of what has been before, in a word, eternal return.\\"<br /><br />Due to the fact that the modern, predominantly Western model, of consciousness, primarily informedby Hebraic/Christian-Greek (teleological) influences, perceives time as a matrix for linear progress toward eschatological fulfillment, an end (and Eliade does not hesitate to analyze with his usual acumen - and here one must highlight the amazing passage where he claims that the concept of `ekpyrosis', the destruction of the world by fire, originates in early Iranian mythology - how Islam developed within this eschatological framework), we are forced to confront what he terms \\"the terror of history\\", the assertion (often stated by zealots of various stripes as fact) that human history, itself, must end.  Recognition of this shift in human consciousness, from the archaic celebration of the repetition of nativity to the modern obsession with the limitation of mortality yields enormous explanatory power.  In the face of the nuclear option, we must seriously consider how far such concepts as \\"resurrection\\", \\"rebirth\\" have tangible reality, not merely a traditionally assigned or contemplatively evoked meaning, but value as real states of affairs.<br /><br />\\"Since the `invention' of faith, in the Judeo-Christian sense of the word (= for God all is possible), the man who has left the horizon of archetypes and repetition can no longer defend himself against that terror except through the idea of God . . .  Any other situation of modern man leads, in the end, to despair.  It is a despair provoked not by his own human existentiality, but by his presence in a historical universe in which almost the whole of mankind lives prey to a continual terror (even if not always conscious of it) . . .<br /><br />In this respect, Christianity incontestably proves to be the religion of `fallen man': and to the extent to which modern man is irremediably identified with history and progress, and to which history and progress are a fall, both implying the final abandonment of the paradise of archetypes and repetition.\\"  These are the words with which the book concludes.  If all that we are is the product of all that has been thought, they deserve the closest sort of reading by every thinking being.  For the final abandonment, in the fine sense and print, means no less than the final abandonment of planet earth and the evolutionary project of humanity in full.hristian-Greek (teleological) influences, perceives time as a matrix for linear progress toward eschatological fulfillment, an end (and Eliade does not hesitate to analyze with his usual acumen - and here one must highlight the amazing passage where he claims that the concept of `ekpyrosis', the destruction of the world by fire, originates in early Iranian mythology - how Islam developed within this eschatological framework), we are forced to confront what he terms \\"the terror of history\\", the assertion (often stated by zealots of various stripes as fact) that human history, itself, must end.  Recognition of this shift in human consciousness, from the archaic celebration of the repetition of nativity to the modern obsession with the limitation of mortality yields enormous explanatory power.  In the face of the nuclear option, we must seriously consider how far such concepts as \\"resurrection\\", \\"rebirth\\" have tangible reality, not merely a traditionally assigned or contemplatively evoked meaning, but value as real states of affairs. <br />\\"Since the `invention' of faith, in the Judeo-Christian sense of the word (= for God all is possible), the man who has left the horizon of archetypes and repetition can no longer defend himself against that terror except through the idea of God . . .  Any other situation of modern man leads, in the end, to despair.  It is a despair provoked not by his own human existentiality, but by his presence in a historical universe in which almost the whole of mankind lives prey to a continual terror (even if not always conscious of it) . . .  <br />In this respect, Christianity incontestably proves to be the religion of `fallen man': and to the extent to which modern man is irremediably identified with history and progress, and to which history and progress are a fall, both implying the final abandonment of the paradise of archetypes and repetition.\\"  These are the words with which the book concludes.  If all that we are is the product of allthat has been thought, they deserve the closest sort of reading by every thinking being.  For the final abandonment, in the fine sense and print, means no less than the final abandonment of planet earth and the evolutionary project of humanity in full. <br /> <br />	2005-10-01
US	49737439	R67I257ZU1QEA	0691017778	331110003	The Myth of the Eternal Return: Or, Cosmos and History	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Human Destiny as the Product of Consciousness	Somewhere on the cover, or in the preface, or even in the introductions to other of his many profound works in the field of comparative religious studies, one will find Eliade's famous counsel: \\"I consider it the most significant of my books; and when asked in what order they should be read, I always recommend beginning with The Myth of the Eternal Return.\\"  One of the enduring monuments of twentieth century academic writing, The Myth of the Eternal Return expounds Eliade's seminal ruminations on the advent of the nuclear, or post-modern era - the naissance of our capacity for apocalyptic self-annihilation - an attempt to demonstrate in analyzable terms the relation between the foundations of the contemporary psyche to the seemingly adventitious madness which actively anticipates (and even militates in favor of) an end-time, an Armageddon, a Judgment Day, if you will.  Eliade thus asks the arch-question: \\"What can protect us from the terror of history?\\"<br /><br />The discussion is framed within a comparison between what Eliade deems as the distinctive difference between the ancient and modern, the archaic (or primitive) and contemporary world-view.  The modern envisions reality as a series of events which fulminate in a linear, progressive history - a history which had a beginning and will have an end.  The ancient experiences reality as an endless, cyclic repetition of primordial acts. \\"... the life of archaic man (a life reduced to the repetition of archetypal acts, that is, to categories and not to events, to the unceasing rehearsal of the same primordial myths) although it takes place in time, does not bear the burden of time, does not record time's irreversibility; in other words, completely ignores what is especially characteristic and decisive in a consciousness of time.  Like the mystic, like the religious man in general, the primitive lives in a continual present.  (And it is in this sense that the religious man may be said to be a `primitive'; he repeats the gestures of another and, through this repetition, lives always in an atemporal present.)\\"<br /><br />Eliade points to the centrality of the lunar cycle in the mythological fabric woven from this perspective, which, to a degree, envelops our own world-view, however linear and eschatologically determinate.  \\"The phases of the moon - appearance, increase, wane, disappearance, followed by reappearance after three nights of darkness - have played an immense part in the elaboration of cyclical concepts.  We find analogous concepts especially in the archaic apocalypses and anthropogonies; deluge or flood puts an end to an exhausted and sinful humanity, and a new regenerated humanity is born, usually from a mythical `ancestor' who escaped the catastrophe, or from a lunar animal.\\"  Regeneration of humanity is thus always implied in its destruction.  In the natural imaging, like the seasons, we assure ourselves, fall and dissolution are ever succeeded by renewal. \\"... just as the disappearance of the moon is never final, since it is necessarily followed by a new moon, the disappearance of man is not final either; in particular, even the disappearance of an entire humanity ... is never total ...\\"  As the modern (historical) cultures translate this concept, \\"this optimism can be reduced to a consciousness of the normality of the cyclical catastrophe, to the certainty that it has a meaning and, above all, that it is never final... In the `lunar perspective', the death of the individual and the periodic death of humanity are necessary, even as the three days of darkness preceding the `rebirth' of the moon are necessary. The death of the individual and the death of humanity are alike necessary for their regeneration ...  what predominates in all these cosmico-mythological lunar conceptions is the cyclical occurrence of what has been before, in a word, eternal return.\\"<br /><br />Due to the fact that the modern, predominantly Western model, of consciousness, primarily informedby Hebraic/Christian-Greek (teleological) influences, perceives time as a matrix for linear progress toward eschatological fulfillment, an end (and Eliade does not hesitate to analyze with his usual acumen - and here one must highlight the amazing passage where he claims that the concept of `ekpyrosis', the destruction of the world by fire, originates in early Iranian mythology - how Islam developed within this eschatological framework), we are forced to confront what he terms \\"the terror of history\\", the assertion (often stated by zealots of various stripes as fact) that human history, itself, must end.  Recognition of this shift in human consciousness, from the archaic celebration of the repetition of nativity to the modern obsession with the limitation of mortality yields enormous explanatory power.  In the face of the nuclear option, we must seriously consider how far such concepts as \\"resurrection\\", \\"rebirth\\" have tangible reality, not merely a traditionally assigned or contemplatively evoked meaning, but value as real states of affairs.<br /><br />\\"Since the `invention' of faith, in the Judeo-Christian sense of the word (= for God all is possible), the man who has left the horizon of archetypes and repetition can no longer defend himself against that terror except through the idea of God . . .  Any other situation of modern man leads, in the end, to despair.  It is a despair provoked not by his own human existentiality, but by his presence in a historical universe in which almost the whole of mankind lives prey to a continual terror (even if not always conscious of it) . . .<br /><br />In this respect, Christianity incontestably proves to be the religion of `fallen man': and to the extent to which modern man is irremediably identified with history and progress, and to which history and progress are a fall, both implying the final abandonment of the paradise of archetypes and repetition.\\"  These are the words with which the book concludes.  If all that we are is the product of all that has been thought, they deserve the closest sort of reading by every thinking being.  For the final abandonment, in the fine sense and print, means no less than the final abandonment of planet earth and the evolutionary project of humanity in full.hristian-Greek (teleological) influences, perceives time as a matrix for linear progress toward eschatological fulfillment, an end (and Eliade does not hesitate to analyze with his usual acumen - and here one must highlight the amazing passage where he claims that the concept of `ekpyrosis', the destruction of the world by fire, originates in early Iranian mythology - how Islam developed within this eschatological framework), we are forced to confront what he terms \\"the terror of history\\", the assertion (often stated by zealots of various stripes as fact) that human history, itself, must end.  Recognition of this shift in human consciousness, from the archaic celebration of the repetition of nativity to the modern obsession with the limitation of mortality yields enormous explanatory power.  In the face of the nuclear option, we must seriously consider how far such concepts as \\"resurrection\\", \\"rebirth\\" have tangible reality, not merely a traditionally assigned or contemplatively evoked meaning, but value as real states of affairs. <br />\\"Since the `invention' of faith, in the Judeo-Christian sense of the word (= for God all is possible), the man who has left the horizon of archetypes and repetition can no longer defend himself against that terror except through the idea of God . . .  Any other situation of modern man leads, in the end, to despair.  It is a despair provoked not by his own human existentiality, but by his presence in a historical universe in which almost the whole of mankind lives prey to a continual terror (even if not always conscious of it) . . .  <br />In this respect, Christianity incontestably proves to be the religion of `fallen man': and to the extent to which modern man is irremediably identified with history and progress, and to which history and progress are a fall, both implying the final abandonment of the paradise of archetypes and repetition.\\"  These are the words with which the book concludes.  If all that we are is the product of allthat has been thought, they deserve the closest sort of reading by every thinking being.  For the final abandonment, in the fine sense and print, means no less than the final abandonment of planet earth and the evolutionary project of humanity in full. <br /> <br />	2005-10-01
US	49737439	R3R40ONPE3XFHR	0446577723	671527527	Approval Addiction: Overcoming Your Need to Please Everyone	Books	5	23	33	N	N	How Practicing the Presence of God can Save You a lot of Grief	An excellent - well organized and easily absorbed work about one of the most important subjects - which few of us think much about - the need for devotion in our lives.  Most of us spend our thinking hours absorbed in worldly pursuits - fulfillment of immediate or, when it comes to loved ones, longer range concerns.  Yet, few of us actually practice absorption in thinking about our relationship with God - actively feeling God's presence in our lives continually.  Perhaps, many of us feel that we lack the courage of faith to believe that God is more than an idea, and act on that conviction.<br />When we think of God - when we attend church - or generally when things fail to go as we wish - when we find ourselves in distress, trouble, or experiencing loss - we think in terms of salvation - our object is to get to 'dry ground' - to be delivered - to find Heaven - but we never really give complete preference to devotion - and when you think about it - as Joyce Meyer has - deeply - devotion really is the way to salvation.  As Jesus has informed us - every hair on our head is numbered - and we ought to focus on that - how we present ourselves before the Lord - at every moment - giving deference to God - rather than people who happen to have something that we want.<br />An observation of particular merit, I feel, is that most of our negative behaviors - dishonesty, violence and the like - arise from our obsession with gaining the approval and esteem of our fellow humans.  Is this insight not true - and truth of the highest order?  Meyer claims that God makes Himself absolutely accessible to us at every moment we chose to seek Him.  Then, what reason is there to prioritize imagined approval from any of His creations when God's approval alone would seem to be the most important criteria for living this life, or any future one?	2005-09-14
US	49737439	R34H0DY5NNWOIF	1570620490	299286337	Deep Ecology for the Twenty-First Century: Readings on the Philosophy and Practice of the New Environmentalism	Books	5	21	25	N	N	In the Beginning . . .	The first words of this venerable and very important anthology of seminal papers in environmental ethics are these: \\"The Long-Range Deep Ecology movement emerged more or less spontaneously and informally as a philosophical and scientific social/political movement during the so-called Ecological revolution of the 1960's.  Its main concern has been to bring about a paradigm shift - a shift in perception, values, and lifestyles - as a basis for redirecting the ecologically destructive path of modern industrial growth societies.  Since the 1960's, the long-range Deep Ecology movement has been characterized philosophically by a move from anthropocentrism to ecocentrism, and by environmental activism.\\"<br />I cite this passage because, sadly, the international corporate hegemony, its paid political operatives, and multifarious media mouthpieces have done such a deceitfully effective job of at once clouding the real issue of our desperately precarious environmental situation and reinforcing our wholly unnecessary dependence of non-renewable energy resources to the tune of record profits, that there are many people coming of age in the most literate societies in the world, who have no idea of what Deep Ecology is, not to mention such a basic distinction as that between anthropocentrism to ecocentrism.  Actually, I would say that the vast majority of the planet's population is either ignorant of this distinction or acts in feigned ignorance or ignorance-based denial of it.  The idea that our ultimate nurturing and sustaining parent is the Earth, that we live on borrowed time, that our first responsibility in any sort of act is consideration of our responsibility to stewardship of this planet, is generally far from most people's minds when they do act.  From radical (and radically unnecessary) clear-cut to all-too common litter, as a humanity, we obviously don't get it.<br />The corporate think-tank seems to produce an never ending stream of ongoing rationalizations and euphemistically-coated rationales for the relentless wholesale destruction of the only home we have, and we embrace, however unwillingly in some cases, but generally unconsciously in most, the systems which enable this unremitting and mindless extirpation of the root of life to go on.<br />Thus, a bit of re-education on the subject, the philosophical justifications for the ecocentric worldview, might be in order.  I can think of no better place to start than the 39 papers in Deep Ecology for the 21st Century, which discuss this need for a shift in our thinking as a humanity in depth.<br />The book is divided into five sections:  What is Deep Ecology?; Historical Roots of Deep Ecology; Arne Naess on Deep Ecology and Ecosophy; Deep Ecology and Eco-Feminism, Social Ecology, the Greens, and the New Age;  Wilderness, The Wild, and Conservation Biology; Toward the Twenty-First Century and Beyond: Social and Practical Implications.  The book focuses particularly on work of Arne Naess (12 entries) and Gary Snyder (3 entries), two foundational voices deeply rooted in vertices in the philosophical matrix of the position.<br />Two of my favorite entries in this book, for various reasons, are:<br />1) Stephan Bodian's interview with Arne Naess, \\"Simple in Means, Rich in Ends\\" (1982) \\"... technology is more helpless than ever before because the technology being produced doesn't fulfill basic human needs, such as meaningful work and meaningful environment.  Technical progress is sham progress because the term `technical progress' is a cultural, not a technical term.  Our culture is the only one in the history of humankind in which the culture has adjusted itself to the technology rather than visa-versa.\\" \\"The material standard of living should be reduced and the quality of life, in the sense of basic satisfaction in the depths of one's heart or soul, should be maintained or increased.\\"  \\"All the sciences are fragmentary and incomplete in relation to basic rules and norms, so it's veryshallow to think that science can solve our problems.  Without basic norms, there is no science.  Of course, we need science ...\\" \\"A hill is never the same in a repetitious way! The development of sensitivity toward the good things of which there are enough is the true goal of education.  Not that we need to limit our goals.  I'm not for the simple life, except in the sense of a life simple in means but rich in goals and values.\\"  One is led to ask if environmentally exploitative corporate capitalists do not have goals and values as well?  Then, while we are, at least, conscious of the possibility of choice, we evidently should focus more on what our goals and values are, why they are what they are, and what are their ultimate ramifications for us?  These are fundamental questions, religious questions, if you will, but we rarely ask them directly of ourselves or in a public forum.<br />2) Wayland Drew's study of anti-utopian fiction, \\"Killing Wilderness\\" (1972) \\"Specifically ... a technological society will be totalitarian regardless of what political structures permit its development, for the essence of technique is efficiency and the autonomous individual, apt to be skeptical, irrational, and recalcitrant, is inefficient.  For the general good therefore, the dangerous elements of individuality must be suppressed, and man must be severed from all the spiritual, intellectual, and emotional influences which might promote dissent.  Man's integrity must be broken. He must be fragmented and reshaped to participate contentedly in the smooth functioning of the technological State - a State that is fundamentally inimical to his instinct and insulting to his intellect.  In other words, the nature of man must be changed.\\"  The corporation (as a legal entity or form) is the instrument of that fragmentation and change, and its will, the dictates of the State.  \\"In its mystery and diversity, in exuberance, decay, and fecundity, the perfection of the wilderness contrasts with the sterile and static perfection of the State.  The difference between them is that between existence and life, between predictability and chance, between posturing and action.  Wilderness ... will threaten the totalitarian state while they co-exist, for the separation of man from nature is imperfect so long as man might recognize that a separation has occurred.\\"  \\"While we are able to do so, let us note the distinction.  A park is a managerial unit definable in quantitative and pragmatic terms.  Wilderness is unquantifiable.  Its boundaries are vague or nonexistent, its contents unknown, its inhabitants elusive.  The purpose of parks is use; the earmark of wilderness is mystery.  Because they serve technology, parks tend toward the predictable and static, but wilderness is infinitely burgeoning and changing because it is the matrix of life itself.  When we create parks we bow to increased bureaucracy and surveillance, but when we speak for wilderness we recognize our right to fewer strictures and greater freedom.  Regulated and crowded, parks will eventually fragment us, as they fragment the wilderness which makes us whole.\\"<br />There are hundreds of other crucial observations in this monumental collection.  My one plaint is that the eloquence of great Petra Kelley is not represented. Hopefully, this unfortuanate omission of the slain sister of all Greens will be emended in a future printing or sequel volume, which is overdue.  However, these are the decisive early testaments.  Please heed them.hat science can solve our problems.  Without basic norms, there is no science.  Of course, we need science ...\\" \\"A hill is never the same in a repetitious way! The development of sensitivity toward the good things of which there are enough is the true goal of education.  Not that we need to limit our goals.  I'm not for the simple life, except in the sense of a life simple in means but rich in goals and values.\\"  One is led to ask if environmentally exploitative corporate capitalists do not have goals and values as well?   Then, while we are, at least, conscious of the possibility of choice, we evidently should focus more on what our goals and values are, why they are what they are, and what are their ultimate ramifications for us?  These are fundamental questions, religious questions, if you will, but we rarely ask them directly of ourselves or in a public forum.  2) Wayland Drew's study of anti-utopian fiction, \\"Killing Wilderness\\" (1972) \\"Specifically ... a technological society will be totalitarian regardless of what political structures permit its development, for the essence of technique is efficiency and the autonomous individual, apt to be skeptical, irrational, and recalcitrant, is inefficient.  For the general good therefore, the dangerous elements of individuality must be suppressed, and man must be severed from all the spiritual, intellectual, and emotional influences which might promote dissent.  Man's integrity must be broken. He must be fragmented and reshaped to participate contentedly in the smooth functioning of the technological State - a State that is fundamentally inimical to his instinct and insulting to his intellect.  In other words, the nature of man must be changed.\\"  The corporation (as a legal entity or form) is the instrument of that fragmentation and change, and its will, the dictates of the State.   \\"In its mystery and diversity, in exuberance, decay, and fecundity, the perfection of the wilderness contrasts with the sterile and staticperfection of the State.  The difference between them is that between existence and life, between predictability and chance, between posturing and action.  Wilderness ... will threaten the totalitarian state while they co-exist, for the separation of man from nature is imperfect so long as man might recognize that a separation has occurred.\\"  \\"While we are able to do so, let us note the distinction.  A park is a managerial unit definable in quantitative and pragmatic terms.  Wilderness is unquantifiable.  Its boundaries are vague or nonexistent, its contents unknown, its inhabitants elusive.  The purpose of parks is use; the earmark of wilderness is mystery.  Because they serve technology, parks tend toward the predictable and static, but wilderness is infinitely burgeoning and changing because it is the matrix of life itself.  When we create parks we bow to increased bureaucracy and surveillance, but when we speak for wilderness we recognize our right to fewer strictures and greater freedom.  Regulated and crowded, parks will eventually fragment us, as they fragment the wilderness which makes us whole.\\"  There are hundreds of other crucial observations in this monumental collection.  My one plaint is that the eloquence of great Petra Kelley is not represented. Hopefully, this unfortuanate omission of the slain sister of all Greens will be emended in a future printing or sequel volume, which is overdue.  However, these are the decisive early testaments.  Please heed them.	2005-09-12
US	49737439	R2XEFBW1CM92PQ	0930852923	307542132	George Bush: The Unauthorized Biography	Books	5	115	121	N	N	Pre-Requisite to Any Further Understanding of American History	Tarpley's massive and insightgful history of the rise of the Bush family to power and prominence - should be required reading for every high school (yeah - PUBLIC HIGH SCHOOL) American history course - as it is for every sincere student of our nation's destiny - and yet, we may likely die dreaming that it someday will be. Well, if we can't seemingly do anything about the problem - at the least, we can get educated about what really happened in America over the past century - and why.<br /><br />The pinnicle of Tarpley's achievement is that through the meticulous sorting of a myriad of research, the psychological portrait of 'Poppy' Bush emerges - a tragic and disturbing figure - obsessed with a seemingly confused and distorted self-justifying version of patriotism - driven by a primal fear of personal failure - and, lest it never be said by any but the eloquent Tarpley - unmitigated guilt.  Yet, to Tarpley's credit, the evidence is weighed sagely, without cant, without spin, and the facts are set forth to testify.<br /><br />What sets Tarpley's classic biography apart is the richness of the narrative and the precision of the investigation. The details of how Nixon found his way into political power from obscurity in a few years - How the Bush family did as much for the Nazis (before, during, and after WWII) as they ever have done for the Republicans (the root ideological distinctions between the two parties seems as blurred now as ever) - and many other gordian mysteries of modern American history are deftly unravelled and spelled out in coherent fashion.<br /><br />Whether you agree with him or not, you must take your issues to the facts themselves - and no one has marshaled them in the detail which Tarpley did way back in 1992 - and from thence, justify your conclusions.<br /><br />Better yet, you can read at least some of Tarpley on the net.  Although as an investment, the hard copy may appreciate in value one day, not merely as a historical narrative, but as a bona fide historical document in its own right.  That is, if rights, are to be part of our future.<br /><br />Thank you Tarpley for your courage, your perseverance, and your love for America. A writer of the highest order - amazingly, waiting to be discovered by most readers.al document in its own right.  That is, if rights, are to be part of our future. <br />Thank you Tarpley for your courage, your perseverance, and your love for America. A writer of the highest order - amazingly, waiting to be discovered by most readers. <br />	2005-09-09
US	49737439	R3B6GI0T9KS9SQ	155778244X	510715626	Encyclopedic Dictionary of Yoga (1st Edition) (Paragon Living Traditions Series)	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Best Quick Reference in English on the Most Important Subject: Union with God	Yeah - As the other reviewer says - the book is indispensable.  I haven't combed Motilal Benarsidass' catalog recently for an alternative - but there's really no reason.  Georg (pronounced Gay'org) Feuerstein is one of the leading independent scholars of our generation (Post WWII baby-boom) in any field. His field, however, is the analysis of classical Indian sciences of enlightenment(including those many which have spread beyond the land of their origin) - and his work is among the best.<br /><br />The dictionary, distilled from the vast Sanskrit literature into a single, easily accessed 425 page volume which integrates over eighty illustrations and photos into the text, along with extensive scriptural citations, is presented in a format that is comprehensive, authoritative, and accessible.<br /><br />1) Each entry is systematically cross-referenced \\"so that the reader can follow up on pertinent conceptual linkages\\".<br /><br />2) \\"There are ... orientational entries that furnish the reader with an overview of a given aspect of the Yoga tradition, such as its history, psychology, or major branches.\\"<br /><br />3) \\"Entries are all in English alphabetical order and , moreover, include key words in English, with references to their Sanskrit equivalents or other relevant Sanskrit concepts.\\"<br /><br />In an area of reading where one really needs a reliable, ready-to-hand, well-organized reference, the Encyclopedic Dictionary stands alone.<br /><br />A note: The Dictionary was first compiled in 1990 - before Feuerstein's fruitful associastion with David Frawley, et al.  Also, and perhaps fortunately in many cases, a number of important speculative dates are missing. A timeline would have been an appropriate inclusion.  However, much of this research can be found in Feuerstein's later productions. If the Dictionary goes to another printing, it would be convenient to have some sort of dating for entries such as, for instance, Mahabharata.	2005-09-09
US	49737439	R1CSQ6J3ECMV57	0521294215	696162246	002: A History of Greek Philosophy: Volume 2, The Presocratic Tradition from Parmenides to Democritus	Books	5	28	29	N	N	To the Roots of Knowledge and Culture	One of the truly remarkable intellectual achievements of our time, Guthrie's magisterial six volume History of Greek Philosophy, is, within the compass of my reading, the most comprehensive rendering of the golden epoch of Western Philosophy available.  The sheer magnitude of the research collected, sorted, and weighed here is enough to recommend, but this work offers much more than a survey of leading interpretations.  Many a major commentary, ancient and modern, receives a fair hearing for each argument analyzed both in the text and in extensive notes.  One only wishes Guthrie were eternal that he might have been able to include all that has and will come in the way of analysis since publication of these texts in the 1960's with the same judicious acumen.<br />On immersing oneself in these many pages, over and again, one is struck by the centrality and the exhaustive nature of the venture.  While such a scope of endeavor is bound to be open to controversy on any number of particulars, and Guthrie is not without critics, the distance traversed is staggering, and the work, in its point-by-point detailed coverage, assumes an authority on the achievement of such breadth alone.  But it is the analytic depth of Guthrie's treatment of the arguments that for me holds the greater value. For the many treasures on display in these pages shine ever more brightly due to the loving care with which they are presented in view of their developmental contexts.<br />Among the finer features of Guthrie is the headliner on each page, providing focus for the narrative, in the style of the annotated Jowett Plato. Organization of the chapters under topical rubrics contributes to the superior organization of the work itself and, along with the extensive Indexes, makes reference within this dense field blessedly user-friendly.<br />If you love Archaic (Pre-Socratic) Greek Philosophy like I do, I feel that there is no better practice than to regularly inter yourself in the first two volumes of Guthrie.  I've been asked which is the best investment for a book on early Greek Philosophy.  The best-known one-volume histories all have their virtues. Of these, Barnes is probably most useful, very good on the Eleatics and Xenophanes, not so comprehending of Herakleitos, the Milesians, and others. The writing tends to be nuanced in a very Anglo-analytic, somewhat technical, orientation.  Kirk and Raven don't thrill me much either as writers or analysts, and make what a number of commentators feel are erroneous judgments. Not nearly as thorough as Guthrie, their book on balance is - sufficient.  The old Burnet is quite good at times, but now has been antiquated on many points by later, more accurate readings (discussed in Guthrie).  Nietzsche's study, translated as \\"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\\" is definitely worth a read (what did Nietzsche ever write that wasn't?), but was not intended as comprehensive scholarship.  All considered, the first two volumes of Guthrie easily outpace the field, and for pure enjoyment of uniformly superb scholarship, copious citations, and solid, accessible writing, are more than worth the expensive price tag.  Splurge! You're buying the best.I've been asked which is the best investment for a book on early Greek Philosophy.  The best-known one-volume histories all have their virtues. Of these, Barnes is probably most useful, very good on the Eleatics and Xenophanes, not so comprehending of Herakleitos, the Milesians, and others. The writing tends to be nuanced in a very Anglo-analytic, somewhat technical, orientation.  Kirk and Raven don't thrill me much either as writers or analysts, and make what a number of commentators feel are erroneous judgments. Not nearly as thorough as Guthrie, their book on balance is - sufficient.  The old Burnet is quite good at times, but now has been antiquated on many points by later, more accurate readings (discussed in Guthrie).  Nietzsche's study, translated as \\"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\\" is definitely worth a read (what did Nietzsche ever write that wasn't?), but was not intended as comprehensive scholarship.  All considered, the first two volumes of Guthrie easily outpace the field, and for pure enjoyment of uniformly superb scholarship, copious citations, and solid, accessible writing, are more than worth the expensive price tag.  Splurge! You're buying the best.	2005-09-09
US	49737439	R1V04YER1HMX7L	0521091136	449889431	Before and After Socrates	Books	5	7	7	N	N	look no further for a quick, succint, to the chase, summary of the key points in socrates, plato, and aristotle	Conford's 1932 classic is still one of the most useful books for students of Greek philosophy.  The book is only 113 pages: Pre-Socratics - 28 pages; Socrates - 26 pages; Plato - 30 pages; Aristotle - 26 pages; Index - 3 pages. Presto! All the essential points are covered in easily understood, large print, accessible writing. Conford was a Cambridge don who really knew his stuff.  He himself translated many of the works discussed. Thus, one gets an accurate basic reading. Another excellent feature is that the book focuses on the development of these powerful ideas in relation to each other.  This inexpensive little volume can be read in a couple of sittings and will give the reader the basics on one of the most important subjects in the history of thought in high style, with a minimum of effort.	2005-09-09
US	49737439	R1598FY6SB7HN4	0521294207	696162246	001: A History of Greek Philosophy: Volume 1, The Earlier Presocratics and the Pythagoreans	Books	5	35	37	N	N	To the Roots of Knowledge and Culture	One of the truly remarkable intellectual achievements of our time, Guthrie's magisterial six volume History of Greek Philosophy, is, within the compass of my reading, the most comprehensive rendering of the golden epoch of Western Philosophy available.  The sheer magnitude of the research collected, sorted, and weighed here is enough to recommend, but this work offers much more than a survey of leading interpretations.  Many a major commentary, ancient and modern, receives a fair hearing for each argument analyzed both in the text and in extensive notes.  One only wishes Guthrie were eternal that he might have been able to include all that has and will come in the way of analysis since publication of these texts in the 1960's with the same judicious acumen.<br />On immersing oneself in these many pages, over and again, one is struck by the centrality and the exhaustive nature of the venture.  While such a scope of endeavor is bound to be open to controversy on any number of particulars, and Guthrie is not without critics, the distance traversed is staggering, and the work, in its point-by-point detailed coverage, assumes an authority on the achievement of such breadth alone.  But it is the analytic depth of Guthrie's treatment of the arguments that for me holds the greater value. For the many treasures on display in these pages shine ever more brightly due to the loving care with which they are presented in view of their developmental contexts.<br />Among the finer features of Guthrie is the headliner on each page, providing focus for the narrative, in the style of the annotated Jowett Plato. Organization of the chapters under topical rubrics contributes to the superior organization of the work itself and, along with the extensive Indexes, makes reference within this dense field blessedly user-friendly.<br />If you love Archaic (Pre-Socratic) Greek Philosophy like I do, I feel that there is no better practice than to regularly inter yourself in the first two volumes of Guthrie.  I've been asked which is the best investment for a book on early Greek Philosophy.  The best-known one-volume histories all have their virtues. Of these, Barnes is probably most useful, very good on the Eleatics and Xenophanes, not so comprehending of Herakleitos, the Milesians, and others. The writing tends to be nuanced in a very Anglo-analytic, somewhat technical, orientation.  Kirk and Raven don't thrill me much either as writers or analysts, and make what a number of commentators feel are erroneous judgments. Not nearly as thorough as Guthrie, their book on balance is - sufficient.  The old Burnet is quite good at times, but now has been antiquated on many points by later, more accurate readings (discussed in Guthrie).  Nietzsche's study, translated as \\"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\\" is definitely worth a read (what did Nietzsche ever write that wasn't?), but was not intended as comprehensive scholarship.  All considered, the first two volumes of Guthrie easily outpace the field, and for pure enjoyment of uniformly superb scholarship, copious citations, and solid, accessible writing, are more than worth the expensive price tag.  Splurge! You're buying the best.I've been asked which is the best investment for a book on early Greek Philosophy.  The best-known one-volume histories all have their virtues. Of these, Barnes is probably most useful, very good on the Eleatics and Xenophanes, not so comprehending of Herakleitos, the Milesians, and others. The writing tends to be nuanced in a very Anglo-analytic, somewhat technical, orientation.  Kirk and Raven don't thrill me much either as writers or analysts, and make what a number of commentators feel are erroneous judgments. Not nearly as thorough as Guthrie, their book on balance is - sufficient.  The old Burnet is quite good at times, but now has been antiquated on many points by later, more accurate readings (discussed in Guthrie).  Nietzsche's study, translated as \\"Philosophy in the Tragic Age of the Greeks\\" is definitely worth a read (what did Nietzsche ever write that wasn't?), but was not intended as comprehensive scholarship.  All considered, the first two volumes of Guthrie easily outpace the field, and for pure enjoyment of uniformly superb scholarship, copious citations, and solid, accessible writing, are more than worth the expensive price tag.  Splurge! You're buying the best.	2005-09-09
US	49737439	R2DMCI7MS9KRLI	0871565099	6316244	In the Absence of the Sacred: The Failure of Technology and the Survival of the Indian Nations	Books	5	8	8	N	N	"All technologies should be assumed guilty until proven innocent."	The `Neo-Luddite' position, as it has been called, the view that evils of modern technology vastly outweigh the benefits, that technology is leading us in a destructive direction, that the benefits of technology are greatly over-hyped and over-sold, that our attitude and approach toward technology and new technological `advances' is at best nave, at worst suicidal, and long overdue for re-evaluation, is argued pervasively in this important book.<br />My caveat here is that one engages a most depressing read - yet, this statement cries out, long and hard, and, inevitably, is one which must be heard by all who claim to call earth home.  Unfortunately, as I write, it is now fifteen years since publication of this towering, tormented masterpiece, which I rate with Walden, Sand County Almanac, Silent Spring, and few others.  Characteristically, the world, less a modicum of its population, has not even given it a sideways look, has not read the book, has largely (virtually) ignored it.  Why?  Do we, at the root cause, read solely or primarily to justify or enhance arguments for our own, pre-established beliefs?<br />The common line of denial/dismissal goes approximately: \\"You drive a car. You use a computer.  If you tree-huggers were to really walk your talk  - you'd be back living in caves, eating grass and roots.\\"  The claim is that the argument to question the value and nature of our existing technology in a broadly based, open forum, to restrict by rule of law, if necessary, the further growth of technology, and to establish strict and unremitting, publicly adjudicated, criteria for new applications of technology is unrealistic and foolish.<br />Mander begins by recounting the history of the argument, \\"The economics of continued technological growth on a finite planet, came into question.  And `appropriate technology' became the catch-term for new low-impact technology that operated on decentralized, small-scale principles: solar energy versus nuclear energy, diverse intensive farming versus agribusiness, steady-state economics versus economic growth  . . .  So careful were we not to be thought too radical that we rarely exposed the real problem: a system of logic, and a set of assumptions, that led to the problems . . .  And at each stage of technical development, we fell more deeply into the techno-maelstorm.\\"  Mander then turns to a restatement of his signal observations of the effects of mass T.V. watching  \\". . . our minds were being channeled and simplified to match the channeled and simplified physical environment - suburbs, malls, freeways, high-rise buildings . . .  Television was engaging all of humanity in similar thought patterns, similar experiences, similar imagery, and a similar context of reality, which was poisonous to diversity of culture.\\" All of which, the children of the Age of McDonaldsization are blithely unaware.<br />Mander further delineates the difficulty:  \\"Saying no to a technology, any technology, was (and still is) beyond us.  Virtually unthinkable.  It does not even occur to most of us  that we have the right our ability to turn back a whole technology.  No precedent our support exists for it in our culture . . . In a truly democratic society, any new technology would be subject to exhaustive debate.\\"  Here, we confront the seemingly universal impasse for implementation of progressive values.  They are always contingent on some sort of consensual agreement, which, in turn, is contingent on opportunities for consensual discussion.  In post 9/11 America, how accessible are such opportunities?<br />We ought to be grateful to Mander at the least for locating the issues within an appropriate ideological venue for discussion.<br />In the section entitled, The Madness of the Astronaut (can we not but help recall Clarke's 2001?), Mander points to \\"the arrogance of Technological Man, the technopioneers assume they are authorized to go anywhere and rearrange anything, including alterations in the structure of human life, animal life, and now natural form itself.  In doing so, they are acting in service to the fundamental principle that has informed technical evolution in the modern era: If it can be done, do it. There are no boundaries, no rules, no sets of standards by which to moderate these activities.  No sense of right or wrong, no taboos; there's only what will succeed in the marketplace.\\"  We are only beginning to experience the consequences.<br />The second part of the book focuses on the fate of societies who dare, usually by dictates of tradition and ancestral memory, to opt out of living inside a machine with the rest of us and follow alternative, wiser paths.<br />Eloquent, essential.life, and now natural form itself.  In doing so, they are acting in service to the fundamental principle that has informed technical evolution in the modern era: If it can be done, do it. There are no boundaries, no rules, no sets of standards by which to moderate these activities.  No sense of right or wrong, no taboos; there's only what will succeed in the marketplace.\\"  We are only beginning to experience the consequences.    The second part of the book focuses on the fate of societies who dare, usually by dictates of tradition and ancestral memory, to opt out of living inside a machine with the rest of us and follow alternative, wiser paths.  Eloquent, essential.	2005-09-08
US	49737439	R347RRQG0CD33G	0198752164	857232898	The Moral Philosophers: An Introduction to Ethics	Books	4	4	4	N	N	A Challenging Introductory Text for most Undergraduate Level Philosophy Readers	Richard Norman is an interesting moral philosopher in his own right.  His work on just war theory in this nuclear age is of note. This book, which purports to be an introductory ethics primer, is written at a rather sophisticated level - really, at one step beyond some of the more popular introductory texts - However, the thicker prose does not obviate its value.<br /><br />The book focuses on the major moral theorists (which is where, I believe, the focus ought to be in an introductory course) and gives a brief - but reasonably sufficient history of the development of moral theory. While Norman does not ignore metaethical (moral epistemic and psychological) issues, he does not delve too deeply, and he barely touches on specific applications of theory (applied ethics).<br /><br />I personally, much prefer his work on the Moderns and compared with the Ancients.  The chapters on Hume and Mill, where the development of utilitarianism is discussed are first rate.  Also, an unsual bonus, and rather prescient on the writer's part, is the inclusion of a full chapter discussing Hegel's moral theory, rarely found in such general history of ethics approaches. Norman presents a cogent and important argument for such an inclusion.  The last two chapters on contemporary ethics provide a solid and useful, if clipped and, at points, somewhat superficial, quick overview of issues in moral theory in the twentieth century.<br /><br />When all is said and done, one can find better introductions to the moral theories of the Greeks and Kant, but the readings on the Utilitarians, Utilitarianism, and their contemporary crtics, make the book more than worth reading, and a useful classroom text for more advanced students.	2005-09-07
US	49737439	R1EEUGYUM8RL2T	014044100X	452582083	The Epic of Gilgamesh	Books	5	5	5	N	N	made in iraq - and quite well at that	I've owned a copy of the N.K. Sandars translation for approximately 31 years now - not nearly as long as this tract has been around. I probably don't have to inform you (if you've dug this deep into Amazon checking out Gilgamesh) that our discovery of its existence - a little over a century ago caused quite a stir - we actually found there was a text, scribed in the middle east no less, that was indisputably of greater antiquity than the Bible. Many opine that the inception of comparative religious studies was the result.<br />Nowadays - we have a plethora of Gilgamesh translations from which to choose - the Gardner, most notably, perhaps. But the Sandars volume still has value. The text reads well - and the extensive 50 + page introduction is informative, remarkably free of interpretation - large in the scope and range of its research - yet, like the translation itself - economical and to the point.<br />Before the reality of resource limitations became common knowledge (not so long ago), Gilgamesh had interest mainly for scholars and literati.  Now, a quarter century later, Gilgamnesh is required reading for all.  Our debt to our Mesopotamian culture is substantial, and its recognition demanded.  The Occident's oldest story has enduring relevance.<br />Has Iraq become America's Enkidu? Or what?	2005-09-06
US	49737439	R1HSMCVFG2DH6F	0534605168	965931272	Attacking Faulty Reasoning: Practical Guide to Fallacy-Free Arguments, 5th Edition	Books	3	15	28	N	N	Even the best of us sometimes disappoint, ironically, and otherwise	As you can read from the excellent reviews of the fourth Edition of Attacking Faulty Reasoning (which anyone contemplating buying this volume should), Damer's \\"positive theory of argument\\" represents a huge breakthrough in informal logic.  To my knowledge, Damer was the first to put foward a coherent schema of the fallacies of informal, organizing them as violations of four comprehensive rubrics, which stand as criteria for effective argument: 1) relevance 2) acceptability 3) sufficiency 4) resiliency (actually a change which Damer might have contemplated making in this new edition) - he uses 'rebuttal' - which, I suppose would have to be 'rebuttal-ness' - to stay in adjectival mode (appropriate to the idea of finding suitable and exhaustive 'criteria' for argument).  Still, the term 'resiliency' more adequately than 'rebuttal' describes the criterion he is delineating in his theory.<br />That point aside, in the brilliant fourth edition - not enough can be said in its favor - Damer's theory reached the peak of its maturity.  Five Stars Plus. I have taught this theory to hundreds of students in my critical thinking classes over the past five years, so I walk my talk here.  Damer's organization of criteria provides the simplest and most user-friendly tool for evaluating the strength of an argument's process of justification which I have found. What better reason to buy a book on critical thinking?<br />Other than the glitch I point to above with the naming of the rebuttal criterion, Damer's theory was technically as nearly perfect (well, {a deep Wittgensteinian 'well' there} as could be expected for an exposition of the anatomy of contexts in informal argument) - simple, accessible, pragmatic (Falliblism and a Davidson-like Principle of Charity are crafted into the \\"12 Commandments\\" of rational discussion): a real advance in a line of thought which has emerged with increasing intensity as central to human progress since its early articulations with the work of Toulmin and others of his ilk.<br />And Damer, as the many who have read him know, writes very clear, concise instructions - the book is really a manual, and reads much in the style of the directions ubiquitously packaged into the many techno-artifacts and tools of our civilization.  Good.  No one, however, would actually dream of reading Damer for his diction - of poetic gifts his displays not a hint, nor a glint. A remedy to that problem might have been sought - if radical change seemed to be beckoning with the prospect of a new edition.<br />Instead, in this fifth edition, Damer has opted to hybridize what was formerly purely a theory of informal argument with a section drawn straight out of Aristotle's Posterior Analytics - his formal fallacies - introduced under the rather spurious, and disputable, criterion \\"structure\\". I could lament at length here. But, there are many who have varying views on the new inclusion. Out of respect - he never explains his reasons for this major alteration, I refrain from further critique. Rather, I leave my reservations those those purists who seek to go further with the development of the science of informal logic as a caveat re: the new Damer theory (don't buy it!), as opposed to those who seek once again to expand the domain of formal analyses, with the usual dubious results.<br />One hopes that a reassessment is forthcoming. Unfortuately, I doubt it.  For the currently definitive statement of the informal fallacies - my opinion is to stick with the fourth edition, and supplement your reading with Toulmin, Fischer, and Zarefsky.<br />Also, as weird as the cover of the fourth edition was, this photo of the umbrella with what appears to be a half-filled glass of water from some restaurant has got be the lamest cover design for a textbook yet - and that indication should serve as caveat enough! Believe me, within, the glass is half-empty.hers of his ilk.  And Damer, as the many who have read him know, writes very clear, concise instructions - the book is really a manual, and reads much in the style of the directions ubiquitously packaged into the many techno-artifacts and tools of our civilization.  Good.  No one, however, would actually dream of reading Damer for his diction - of poetic gifts his displays not a hint, nor a glint. A remedy to that problem might have been sought - if radical change seemed to be beckoning with the prospect of a new edition.   Instead, in this fifth edition, Damer has opted to hybridize what was formerly purely a theory of informal argument with a section drawn straight out of Aristotle's Posterior Analytics - his formal fallacies - introduced under the rather spurious, and disputable, criterion \\"structure\\". I could lament at length here. But, there are many who have varying views on the new inclusion. Out of respect - he never explains his reasons for this major alteration, I refrain from further critique. Rather, I leave my reservations those those purists who seek to go further with the development of the science of informal logic as a caveat re: the new Damer theory (don't buy it!), as opposed to those who seek once again to expand the domain of formal analyses, with the usual dubious results.   One hopes that a reassessment is forthcoming. Unfortuately, I doubt it.  For the currently definitive statement of the informal fallacies - my opinion is to stick with the fourth edition, and supplement your reading with Toulmin, Fischer, and Zarefsky.   Also, as weird as the cover of the fourth edition was, this photo of the umbrella with what appears to be a half-filled glass of water from some restaurant has got be the lamest cover design for a textbook yet - and that indication should serve as caveat enough! Believe me, within, the glass is half-empty.	2005-09-05
US	49737439	RXPVF094IOOEP	0385421311	835229188	The Art of Worldly Wisdom: A Pocket Oracle	Books	5	52	55	N	N	Write as if you were bestowing a legacy . . .	Gracian's \\"Oracle\\" as it has been known through the past four centuries has its admirers and detractors, but none may honestly deny its charisma, and, as far as we can tell, eternal, relevance. Gracian himself was an apostate Jesuit, in fact, an early  associate of Loyola, i.e., a disenfranchised charter member. One gets the feeling that Gracian was simply too much for his fellows - his insight into their 'sins' too penetrating even for the putatively penitent.<br />In the deepest Augustinian sense - where 'sin' is that which brings us misery - Gracian turns his great insight - that sin is folly & folly is sin - to its most beneficial application in his economic, witty, utile, most often profound guide to prudentia (practical wisdom), that venerable, yet too often elusive, lynchpin of virtue... and success.<br />As Maurer tells us in his informative introduction to what is in my opinion - the definitive English translation (I can vouch only for its impact)- that Gracian learned from his former illustrious associate Aphorism 251: \\"Use human means as though divine ones didn't exist, and divine means as though there were no human ones\\".  I claim that Gracian uses both  - to the most efficacious extent in this slender, but ever deeper masterpiece.<br />To the aphorisms, themselves!<br />I can't list all my favorites.  I'd end up hand-copying almost the entire work, and it would take a lifetime to begin sorting out what might be best. Besides, I'd rather spend my time attempting to apply the wisdom found here, though I can but hope to master the bulk of it, try as I might. More hopefully, bits and pieces of a few will encourage you to pick up a book we might all do well to read more in.<br /><br />\\"The art of moving people's wills involves more skill than determination.  You must know how to get inside the other person. Each will has its own special object of delight;they vary according to taste.  Everyone idolizes something... The trick is to identify the idols that can set people in motion.\\"<br /><br />\\"Love - if you would be loved.\\"<br /><br />\\"Feel with the few, speak with the many.\\"<br /><br />\\"The prudent show restraint, and would rather fall short than long.  True eminences are rare, so temper your esteem. To overvalue something is a form of lying.\\"<br /><br />\\"... there is more courage in avoiding danger than in conquering it.\\"<br /><br />\\"Know how to wait. It shows a great heart with deep reserves of patience.  Never hurry and never give way to your emotions.  Master yourself and you will master others. Stroll through the open spaces of time to the center of opportunity.  Wise hesitation ripens success and brings secrets to maturity.\\"<br /><br />\\"End well. If you enter the house of Fortune through the door of pleasure, you will leave through the door of sorrow, and vice versa.  So be careful of the way you end things, and devote more attention to a successful exit than to a highly applauded entrance. Fortunate people often have very favorable beginnings and very tragic endings. What matters isn't being applauded when you arrive - for that is common - but being missed when you leave. Rare are those who are still wanted.  Fortune seldom accompanies someone to the door.\\"<br /><br />\\"The wise do sooner what fools do later. Both do the same, the difference is when.\\"<br /><br />\\"Never come unless you're called, never go unless you are sent.\\"<br /><br />\\"Know your major defect. Every talent is balanced by a fault, and if you give into it, it will govern you like a tyrant. You can begin to overthrow it by paying heed to it: begin to conquer it by identifying it.  Pay it the same attention as those who reproach you for it.\\"<br /><br />\\"Know how to take things. Never against the grain, though they're handed to you that way.  There are two sides to everything.  If you grab the blade, the best thing will do you harm; the most harmful with defend you if you seize it by the hilt.\\"<br /><br />\\"Live neither entirely for yourself, nor forothers. It is a vulgar sort of tyranny.\\"<br /><br />\\"There are more days than luck. Be quick to act, slow to enjoy.\\"<br /><br />\\"Speak as if you were making out your will... the fewer words, the fewer lawsuits.\\"<br /><br />\\"Don't wait to be a setting sun. It is a maxim of prudent people to abandon things before being abandoned by them.\\"\\"Speak as if you were making out your will... the fewer words, the fewer lawsuits.\\"    \\"Don't wait to be a setting sun. It is a maxim of prudent people to abandon things before being abandoned by them.\\"	2005-09-03
US	49737439	R1MA6N3BCBJ3DN	B0006C8KPY	619390472	The philosophy of love;: Bhakti-sutras of Devarsi Narada	Books	5	1	1	N	N	THE book on divine love	The Narada Bhakti Sutras are of the greatest antiquity.  No one knows exactly when they first appeared.  The succinct quality and brevity of the original text (there are 84 aphorisms altogether) points to the venerable oral tradition from whence they hail, that of the Vedas (for more, see Frawley, S. Dasgupta, Prabhupada, et al).  Narada was already apotheosized by the appearance of the great epics, the Mahabharata and the Ramayana, in literary form in the first milenium BC.<br />This particular translation and commentary is a rare and sublime masterpeice.  Poddar worked for the Forest Service in India before retiring to live as a true sannyasin - a fact immediately evident to the reader.  Throughout, the commentary is dappled with wonderful citations from the Gita, Tulsidas, the Smirad Bhagavata and other inspiring sources which gives the whole book a seamless, ecstacious flow, rather than the usual explanatory feel of commentaries.<br />Narada's importance to the human project cannot be overstated.<br />His argument turns on subtle, but the most profound distinctions. Primary among his points is this: most of us are out there praying, striving for liberation - in this sense, we've really missed the essence of spiritual life, of life itself - what we should be striving for is not liberation, but DEVOTION!  This aspiration is the mark of the true devotee - really in any endeavor, when you think about it - but, of course, the point is not lost, that all endeavors, in the end lead to God.<br />Narada beckons us to the day when \\"shame, anger, pride, and passion are forgotten (states of mind) and only the dust of the Lotus-feet of the Lord remains settled on our heads ...<br />something like that anyway - might be enough?  Total immersion in God is the only way to God, where there is no distinction bewteen knower and Known.<br />There is as much in this book that our age sorely misses - which is to say . . . a lot.	2005-09-02
US	49737439	R3K46QUKAP96J5	0631229647	745668811	Dimensions of Moral Theory: An Introduction to Metaethics and Moral Psychology	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Comprehensive, Concise, and Current Exposition	'Dimensions' may well become the standard intermediate text in ethics courses.  Jacobs offers a clear, cohesive, and accessible examination of the often mysterious, yet critical content of ethical theory, falling under the rubrics of metaethics (epistemological, metaphysical, and semantic)and moral psychology, which details the major positions and supporting arguments while tracing their historical development, with concinnity (notably, under 150 pages) and aplumb.<br /><br />  Citing David McNaughton, Keele University, from the back cover, \\"There is a real sense of engaging in a continuing dialogue that spans the history of the subject.\\"  The book is conveniently, for a sixteen week semester, divided into four sections: Objectivity and Subjectivity, Moral Theory and Moral Psychology, Forms of Moral Theory, Naturalism and Non-naturalism. The book has excellent references, bibliography, and useful glossary.<br /><br />  My only reservations are that, because of its compact presentation (a strength), the reading is sometimes haltingly slow.  Also, the work of certain important contemporaries such as Parfit and Singer are ignored.<br /><br />  However, this superb study is the perfect text to follow a general introduction, such as Rachels, et al., and highly useful for anyone wishing to know more about the more challenging issues informing contemporary ethical discourse and practice.	2005-05-23
US	49737439	R1PYNKVDJOBN79	0767410335	86394723	A Guided Tour of Five Works by Plato: Euthyphro, Apology, Crito, Phaedo (Death Scene), Allegory of the Cave	Books	5	23	23	N	N	Best Plato Textbook is a Superb Teaching Tool	The book is an excellent teaching tool for undergraduate and graduate level Philosophy courses.  This text would be the only one I would use at the high school level (and Plato should be taught in GATE and AP type English classes, as he was back in the \\"good old days\\" when the goal of academic 'arete' had real importance in lesson planning).  The book includes the dialogues surrounding the trial and death of Socrates, Euthyphro, Crito, and Apology, the Death Scene of Socrates from the Phaedo, and the \\"Allegory of the Cave\\" from the Republic.  While the translations are not always the best, they are very good, come from the greatest source (Jowett) and quite sufficient for communicating all the important points in the dialogues.<br />Best of all are the copious margins which surround the text on every page and serve the wonderful purpose of teaching students to annotate their text with marginalia. The creation of marginalia is an ancient scholarly art, quintessentially described by Edmond Bourdoux Szekeley, one of the last of the old world scholars of that grand continental tradition known as the Sorbonne Method, which he describes in his now out of print masterpiece, \\"The Art of Study\\".  In that book, Szekeley details the method by which, through nearly a millinium, successive generations of Sorbonne scholars (dating back before Aquinas), parsed and analyzed arguments and extracted the hermaneutic esssence of their texts.<br />Biffle provides cues and prompts with relevant and incisive questions (he knows Bloom's Taxonomy as well as he knows his Philosophy), which not only makes students accountable to do the reading (you can collect your students' texts to see if their doing it), but provides the student with a time-proven, eminently productive study skill.<br />Biffle also provides excellent background material, supplementary writing exercises, and material for quizzes, all you really need.<br />A few points which Biffle addresses \\"to the teacher\\" in his introduction are in order: 1) \\"My philosophy students need a lot of practice in orderly thinking and writing. They need practice in following a logical pattern, giving reasons for assertions, clarifying points with examples, and quoting supporting material from a text. There is plenty of practice here.\\" 2) \\"The truth is most students will read Plato's dialogues only once in their lives.  We need to slow down that precious reading and make it as fruitful as possible. The reading and writing tasks I have incorporated in this book are designed to help students underline, write in margins, reread, paraphrase, outline, and eventually analyze philosophical classics in an orderly way.\\"in order: 1) \\"My philosophy students need a lot of practice in orderly thinking and writing. They need practice in following a logical pattern, giving reasons for assertions, clarifying points with examples, and quoting supporting material from a text. There is plenty of practice here.\\" 2) \\"The truth is most students will read Plato's dialogues only once in their lives.  We need to slow down that precious reading and make it as fruitful as possible. The reading and writing tasks I have incorporated in this book are designed to help students underline, write in margins, reread, paraphrase, outline, and eventually analyze philosophical classics in an orderly way.\\"	2004-03-18
US	49737439	R33Y9JUEP61CNQ	039457768X	27708450	A Long The Riverrun	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Last testament of the pre-eminent literary biographer	\\"The claim of being reasonable and honest did not impress him, for Yeats felt that 'poets were good liars who never forgot that the Muses were women who liked the embrace of gay warty lads'.\\" (93)<br />\\"Yeats astonishes us by the bluntness with which he makes clear the defects of our world.  But having made clear its limitations, he suddenly enters upon its defense.  It has pain, it has struggle, it has tragedy, elements denied to the daimons.  Seen from their point of view life always fails.  Yet it does not fail utterly, for man can imagine their state even if he cannot participate in it.  And the capacity to imagine is redemptive;  man, in a frenzy at being limited, overthrows much of that limitation.  He defiantly adsserts his imaged self against futility, and to imagine heroism is to become a hero.\\" (27)<br />\\"[Beckett] saw besmirchment as the human condition. What right had he to exempt himself from it? Might not his claim to privacy be the last rag of egotism?\\" (231)<br />\\"By making his book the matrix for the ontogeny of the soul, Joyce achieved a unity as perfect as any of the Edwardians could achieve, and justified literally his description of the artist as like a mother brooding over her creation until it assumes independent life. The aspiration towards unity in the novel seems related to the search for unity elsewhere, in psychology for example, where the major effort is to bring the day-world and the night-world together. Edwardian writers who commented on history demonstrated the same desire to see human life in a synthesis.  In 1900, Joyce announced in his paper on 'Drama and Life' that 'human society is the embodiment of changeless laws', laws which he would picture in operation in Finnegans Wake.\\" (159)<br />\\"The difference between Wilde and the Romantics was not in estimating the value of art, but in putting so much emphasis as Wilde did on artifice.  When he said, 'A sunset is no doubt a beautiful thing, but perhaps its chief use is to illustrate quotations from the poets', he was suggesting that artists were not only the Shelleyan unackwoledged legislators, but the quickeners of perception.  Nature as we know it is built up out of imaginative fictions. Strip as we will, we will never be naked.  People fall in love because poets have talked up that sentiment. They limp because Byron limped. They dress up because Beau Brummell did. Wilde's point here being that people are not only affected by the works of art that are written down, but by the works of art that are lived.\\" (7)<br />. . . vintage quotes from the 'inside' of the process of literary creation.  Ellman got there more often than any commentator I have read.  There are many fascinating chapters in this svelte yet far-ranging collection of papers, mostly posthumous. But, my favorite section of the book is his remarkable reminiscence of the period when he essentially lived in Yeats' home and, with Yeats' widow, explored the life and writings of that great and controversial poet, first-hand. Extrodinary!<br />The above citations all concern those great Irishmen, on whom Ellman wrote as well as anyone ever has, or, perhaps, ever will, due to the recessive quality of temporal duration.  Some of his work on American authors is included in the volume. This stuff is curious at best, and does not exhibit either the miraculous sensitivity or depth of research and consideration of the main ideas in related contexts which Ellman regularly displays on his \\"home\\" turf - modern Irish literature.quotations from the poets', he was suggesting that artists were not only the Shelleyan unackwoledged legislators, but the quickeners of perception.  Nature as we know it is built up out of imaginative fictions. Strip as we will, we will never be naked.  People fall in love because poets have talked up that sentiment. They limp because Byron limped. They dress up because Beau Brummell did. Wilde's point here being that people are not only affected by the works of art that are written down, but by the works of art that are lived.\\" (7)<br />. . . vintage quotes from the 'inside' of the process of literary creation.  Ellman got there more often than any commentator I have read.  There are many fascinating chapters in this svelte yet far-ranging collection of papers, mostly posthumous. But, my favorite section of the book is his remarkable reminiscence of the period when he essentially lived in Yeats' home and, with Yeats' widow, explored the life and writings of that great and controversial poet, first-hand. Extrodinary!<BR>The above citations all concern those great Irishmen, on whom Ellman wrote as well as anyone ever has, or, perhaps, ever will, due to the recessive quality of temporal duration.  Some of his work on American authors is included in the volume. This stuff is curious at best, and does not exhibit either the miraculous sensitivity or depth of research and consideration of the main ideas in related contexts which Ellman regularly displays on his \\"home\\" turf - modern Irish literature.	2004-03-16
US	49737439	RJBJZ6BDER1PC	0801425514	93458770	Socrates, Ironist and Moral Philosopher (Cornell Studies in Classical Philology)	Books	5	25	25	N	N	Best study of Socrates available at present	Gregory Vlastos was the most celebrated scholar of classical Greek philosophy in the last third of the twentieth century, if not the most important of the past hundred years. Virtually every major project in Platonic studies since 1960 has been in some way informed by him.  For the reason of the maginitude of his scholarship alone, one really cannot go wrong with this book, in my opinion, one of his best.<br />  What made Vlastos such a seminal figure is demonstrated abundantly in this study: 1) his ability to identify, elucidate, and interpret, in the light of the relevant contexts, the defining issues; 2) his closely reasoned justification for those interpretations.<br />  The book is really a collection of papers and lectures extending from the late 1950's through the 1980's which illumine Vlastos' position that Socrates was &quot;... the first to establish the eudaemonist foundation of ethical theory which becomes common ground for all the schools that sprung up around him, and more; he is the founder of the non-instrumentalist form of eudaemonism held in common by the Platonists, Aristotelians, Cynics, and Stoics, i.e. of all Greek moral pholosophers except the Epicureans.&quot;<br />  As noted, Vlastos gives detailed insights into the elements of Socrates' moral theory and method of argument.  The famous paper, &quot;Socratic Irony&quot;, which opens the book (23 pages) is by far the most informative I have read on the subject, and, as Vlastos shows us, indispensible for understanding both Socratic moral theory and method of argument.  A perfect source for undergraduate papers on these subjects, as well.<br />  Chapter 7, &quot;Socrates' Rejection of Retaliation&quot; is very likely the most important work on this crucial subject at the heart of Socratic moral theory and sine qua non for any deeper understanding of Socrates and his &quot;mission&quot; (he articulated the &quot;Golden Rule&quot; 400 + years before Christ). In it (page 198), Vlastos claims: &quot;In saying that it is never good to do a wrong, and making this the foundational reason for breaking with the accepted morality, Socrates must be using the word in its most inclusive sense. He must be saying: 'If an act of yours will wrong another, then it is bad for you, the agent, so bad that no good it offers could compensate you for its evil for you.'&quot;<br />  The final chapter &quot;Happiness and Virtue in Socrates' Moral Theory&quot;, is the cumulation of nearly half a century of research, and again, a benchmark in Socratic studies.  The same is felt universally by those professionally involved in such work: here is seminal, accessible scholarship on a subject which nearly 2,500 years since its original articulation still imperatively commands our attention.&quot;In saying that it is never good to do a wrong, and making this the foundational reason for breaking with the accepted morality, Socrates must be using the word in its most inclusive sense. He must be saying: 'If an act of yours will wrong another, then it is bad for you, the agent, so bad that no good it offers could compensate you for its evil for you.'&quot;<BR>    The final chapter &quot;Happiness and Virtue in Socrates' Moral Theory&quot;, is the cumulation of nearly half a century of research, and again, a benchmark in Socratic studies.  The same is felt universally by those professionally involved in such work: here is seminal, accessible scholarship on a subject which nearly 2,500 years since its original articulation still imperatively commands our attention.	2004-03-07
US	49737439	R3RILY7Z514E24	0684826771	660892880	Short History of Ethics	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Indispensible Classic For Students of Moral Philosophy	MacIntyre's now classic history of moral theory was written in the highly individualistic years of the mid-late sixties.  Today, MacIntyre is regarded as one of the world's most significant moral philosophers, but when he wrote this book, few outside of the discipline had ever heard of him.  No doubt, the book reflects MacIntyre's strong opinions, but they are well-considered, deeply thought, and generally well-argued.  Further, the nature of the project keeps MacIntyre in the mainstream of his subject, and the book provides an extremely comprehensive and relatively concise (270 pages) survey of the peaks in the development of western moral theory (which, despite the many claims of post-modern pundits, is still at the heart of the philosophic project as a whole). A number of MacIntyre's arguments show a fascinating and appropriate application of Wittgenstein's ideas, which, at the time of this writing, still basked in the glow of the apotheosis they had undergone in the 1950's.<br />MacIntyre is strong on the Greeks.  His sections on Socrates, Plato, and Aristotle, and the development of Greek moral thought fill the first 100 pages.  Socrates' basic teachings are examined, and while MacIntyre is a bit too materialistic to really &quot;get&quot; Plato, he details the main strokes well, in a fairly thorough discussion of The Republic.  His examination of Aristotle's moral theory is enlightening, one of the best available in brief.<br />The middle of the book deftly deals with the impact of Christian moral thought (see Max Weber for more), the development of early modernity (good on Hobbes; interesting on Spinoza), further developments in 18th century France and Britain (if you've ever wanted to know how the ideas of Locke, Mandeville, Shaftesbury, Hutchinson, Bishop Butler, Paley, Price, Reed, and Hume, et al. fit together in less than ten pages, look no further). Hume is discussed more deeply in other books of this sort (see Norman &quot;The Moral Philosophers&quot;). The discussion is followed by excellent summaries of Montesquieu and Rousseau. (For some reason Montaigne is ignored along with the rest of late 16th and early 17th century French thought).<br />Then comes what, in my opinion, is the gem of the book, his analysis of Kant. The final claim in the chapter, that the arbitrary nature (&quot;the logical emptiness&quot;) of Kant's categorical imperative ironically did far more than any other philosophic claims to prepare the German psyche to rationalize the acceptance of totalitarian National Socialism, albeit controversial, deserves careful perusal.<br />The final third of the book includes informative sections on Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche (R. Soloman and K. Higgins are better in the brief style format on Nietzsche), Utilitarianism (R. Norman is stronger on Mill, but MacIntyre is sfficient) and ends about halfway through the 20th century, mostly discussing developments in British moral philosophy (Moore, et al).  There's a few pages on Sarte (not nearly enough), Dewey, and less known figures such as Stevenson.  All in all, better buy a seperate book which deals with this turbulant century all by itself.  MacIntyre, however, provides enough of an intro.<br />The book is excellent in showing the interrelation and development of the most stimulating ideas which have arisen in Europe over two-and a-half thousand years in regard to how we ought to live, how we do, and the whys and wherefores of most of what matters most in philosophy.The discussion is followed by excellent summaries of Montesquieu and Rousseau. (For some reason Montaigne is ignored along with the rest of late 16th and early 17th century French thought).<BR>Then comes what, in my opinion, is the gem of the book, his analysis of Kant. The final claim in the chapter, that the arbitrary nature (&quot;the logical emptiness&quot;) of Kant's categorical imperative ironically did far more than any other philosophic claims to prepare the German psyche to rationalize the acceptance of totalitarian National Socialism, albeit controversial, deserves careful perusal.<BR>The final third of the book includes informative sections on Hegel, Marx, Kierkegaard, Nietzsche (R. Soloman and K. Higgins are better in the brief style format on Nietzsche), Utilitarianism (R. Norman is stronger on Mill, but MacIntyre is sfficient) and ends about halfway through the 20th century, mostly discussing developments in British moral philosophy (Moore, et al).  There's a few pages on Sarte (not nearly enough), Dewey, and less known figures such as Stevenson.  All in all, better buy a seperate book which deals with this turbulant century all by itself.  MacIntyre, however, provides enough of an intro.<BR>The book is excellent in showing the interrelation and development of the most stimulating ideas which have arisen in Europe over two-and a-half thousand years in regard to how we ought to live, how we do, and the whys and wherefores of most of what matters most in philosophy.	2004-02-27
US	49737439	RNGXURR2EZDNR	0814765521	258426686	Greek Philosophical Terms: A Historical Lexicon	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Fascinating/Essential Tool for the Study of Greek Philosophy	The most comprehensive, accessible dictionary of Greek Philosophical terms.  Attractive, well-organized format.  The meaning of each word is defined starting from the original historical period of its use, and then its later conceptual development is traced through each successive period of Greek philosophical thought.  Thus, the concepts of classical thought are examined both synchronically and dichronically, throughly, and yet, with studied concision.<br />The utility of the book is enhanced by having such a comprehensive collection of concepts under one cover (235 pages), and an excellent English to Greek index, enabling the reader to cross-reference from concepts in English and find the appropriate word in classical Greek.<br />Far easier to use for the Greekless reader than Liddell and Scott (which has its own unquestioned domain of utility), and far more detailed in its explanations, the definitions also list related words and concepts, explained in the book.<br />A mesmorizing read for those with an interest in classical Greek thought and an excellent value.	2004-02-23
US	49737439	R3SYPZAKXO5WWU	0042941350	825569512	Zen for Beginners (Writers & readers)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Most Accessible Basic History of Zen	Surprisingly, this volume in Documentary Comic Books Series from Writers and Readers publishers turns out to be a pearl of great price: a readily accessible, fun to read, History of Zen Buddhism.  In a delightful series of line drawn cartoons (which the subject lends itself to) we follow Gotama Buddha through his magistral Life, Nagarjuna thru his teachings, Bodhidharma into China, Dogen back to Japan, and every major figure in between.  The contributions of these great teachers and patriarchs are reduced to a few key sayings, koans, and concepts. In 160 pages, mostly pictures, the reader garners a coherent picture of the history, identity, meaning, and purpose of Zen, that would otherwise have taken the reading of many volumes, thick ones, to imbibe. This effort is a brief, informative recovery of the original face of Zen history and a wonderful teaching tool. My friend, the late Paul Reps, would have LOVED this slender masterpiece.  Or, as Ikkyu puts it in the book:<br />  'And what is it, the heart?<br />  it is the sound of the pine breeze<br />  in the ink painting.'	2004-02-20
US	49737439	R3OF78A7JIV5DR	0802130313	299156432	What the Buddha Taught: Revised and Expanded Edition with Texts from Suttas and Dhammapada	Books	5	33	36	N	N	Definitive, succinct introduction to Buddhism	I've been studying the Dhamma for over a quarter century, and have been fortunate in having a number of wonderful teachers. In my opinion, Rahula's book is the best introduction available. The book is also quite useful as it is the ultimate &quot;briefer course&quot; on the subject. Extremely well-ordered and organized, the book presents all the basic concepts and tenents of Buddhism, in concise and easily accessible explanations.  Noteworthy is Rahula's blessed blend of economy and comprehensiveness.  In less than 150 pages, an average reader can be well-versed in this magnificent teaching as it was originally disemminated. The entire book can be read in a couple of sittings (great for students under pressure, reads like higher order cliff notes!).<br />Rahula, a Theravadan Monk, begins his discussion by relating the life of the Buddha (the dhamma) and continues with an exposition of &quot;The Buddhist Attitude of Mind&quot;.  Here he discusses with brevity and precision the purpose and essence of the Buddha's thought and enlightenment.  In the following four chapters he discusses the details of that enlightenment, &quot;The Four Noble Truths&quot;, which is simultaneuosly a map of &quot;The Middle Way&quot;, the path the Buddha has prescribed to reach freedom (nibbana, which is Pali for the Sanskrit, nirvana). The next chapter deals with the most difficult concept for Western students, Anatta (the idea of 'no-soul').  In this chapter, there is also a clear and understandable discussion of 'paticcasamupada' which is often called in older English translations 'dependent-arising' or 'co-dependent arising'.  This idea is the Buddha's theory of causation and is the central philosophical concept in Buddhism.  Rahula translates it as 'conditioned genesis', but much more to the point is the contemporary Vietnamese Buddhist Thich Nhat Hanh's translation of the idea as 'Interbeing'.  However, in brevity, focus, and comprehensiveness, Rahula's explanation is most helpful. Following are chapters on meditation, mindfulness, and the potential helpfulness of Buddha's teaching for the contemporary world.<br />Then, we get forty pages of selections from the most essential Buddhist texts, including Buddha's first talk after attaining enlightenment, the wonderful Dhammapada, the Metta-sutta, and much else. The book includes a comprehensive and informative glossary of Pali (the scriptural language of Buddhism in contrast to Sanskrit which is Vedic/Hindu)words, excellent Bibliography, and complete Index.<br />The Theravadan teaching is the original teaching of Buddhism as close as the world's scholars and devotees can seem to get to how Gotama Buddha taught it. You simply cannot do better that this book for quickly attaining a foundational knowledge of Buddhism.ollowing are chapters on meditation, mindfulness, and the potential helpfulness of Buddha's teaching for the contemporary world.<BR>Then, we get forty pages of selections from the most essential Buddhist texts, including Buddha's first talk after attaining enlightenment, the wonderful Dhammapada, the Metta-sutta, and much else. The book includes a comprehensive and informative glossary of Pali (the scriptural language of Buddhism in contrast to Sanskrit which is Vedic/Hindu)words, excellent Bibliography, and complete Index. <BR>The Theravadan teaching is the original teaching of Buddhism as close as the world's scholars and devotees can seem to get to how Gotama Buddha taught it. You simply cannot do better that this book for quickly attaining a foundational knowledge of Buddhism.	2004-02-20
US	49737439	R27M9406MR4ZMJ	0486202178	910328163	Philosophical Writings of Peirce	Books	5	48	48	N	N	Affordable &quot;best of&quot; the most influential U.S. philosopher	Someone once noted that the course of the average person's life is often determined by the ideas of thinkers of whom he/she has never heard.  Charles Peirce, the father of Pragmatism, the most infuential 20th century philosophy ( the quintessentially American contribution to the canon of Western thought), and to a degree the modern scientific worldview, is such a figure.<br />Peirce's father was for many years chairman of the Math dept at Harvard, teacher to the plethora of great names and leaders who poured forth from that venerable institution to lead our nation through the mid 19th century.  But Peirce's own professional aspirations were dashed by an unfortunate affair with the wife of a colleague during a brief tenure at Johns Hopkins, which led to his banishment from academe.  For the duration of his rather long life (he died in 1914), he painfully eeked out a living in a government job and wrote some of the most powerful philosophy of all time.  He lived outside of Cambridge, MA where a circle of young scholars who would rise to prominence (notably William James, who would, with Freud, essentially co-found the new science of psychology) gathered at his feet to imbibe the vision of a world that would come to be.<br />The thrust of Peirce's philosophy is the effort to place philosophy on a scientific basis. Peirce's belief was that the theoretical could only have value if practically applicable, and, in the words of the distinguished Buchler, who brilliantly edited, selected, and arranged the papers for this volume, &quot;that the broadest speculative theories should be experimentally verifiable.  This attitude rests on the conviction that philosophy is a branch of progressive inquiry rather than a species of art, and that the scientific method alone makes progressive inquiry possible.&quot;  As opposed to intuitional, mystical, or strictly theoretical subjective processes of justification, prominent in the nineteeth century, Peirce extrolled the scientific method as a social, cooperative enterprise, where objective criteria could be established through processes of universal examination and consensus, by which we could honestly and openly take measure of the veracity of our ideas. Moreover, the scientific method was distinguished from other approaches, as &quot;it conceives of its results as essentially provisional or corrigle&quot; and thus &quot;ensures measurable progress&quot;.  This concept of &quot;falliblism&quot;, the idea that no idea is beyond question, and no criterion for judgement, infallible, is the lynchpin of Peirce's democratization of thought, a gift for the ages.  Thus Peirce's famous motto: &quot;DO NOT BLOCK THE ROAD TO INQUIRY!&quot;<br />These papers represent the finest issue of Peirce's massive output (much of which was unfortunately destroyed and/or lost).  &quot;The Fixation of Belief&quot; and &quot;How to Make Our Ideas Clear&quot; ought to be read by anyone interested in participating in the democratic process.<br />Not to be overlooked is the eloquence, humor, and compassion found in these papers, and in testimony their effect, the greater part of us might agree with Peirce that, &quot;We are, doubtless, in the main, logical animals, but we are not perfectly so.&quot;od as a social, cooperative enterprise, where objective criteria could be established through processes of universal examination and consensus, by which we could honestly and openly take measure of the veracity of our ideas. Moreover, the scientific method was distinguished from other approaches, as &quot;it conceives of its results as essentially provisional or corrigle&quot; and thus &quot;ensures measurable progress&quot;.  This concept of &quot;falliblism&quot;, the idea that no idea is beyond question, and no criterion for judgement, infallible, is the lynchpin of Peirce's democratization of thought, a gift for the ages.  Thus Peirce's famous motto: &quot;DO NOT BLOCK THE ROAD TO INQUIRY!&quot;<BR>These papers represent the finest issue of Peirce's massive output (much of which was unfortunately destroyed and/or lost).  &quot;The Fixation of Belief&quot; and &quot;How to Make Our Ideas Clear&quot; ought to be read by anyone interested in participating in the democratic process. <BR>Not to be overlooked is the eloquence, humor, and compassion found in these papers, and in testimony their effect, the greater part of us might agree with Peirce that, &quot;We are, doubtless, in the main, logical animals, but we are not perfectly so.&quot;	2004-02-20
US	49737439	R395TQPGH4A8ON	0060393106	238936121	The Soy Zone	Books	3	8	12	N	N	Good for transitioning out of meat-based diets . . . maybe	Diet is a first and foremost matter of individual choice.  Our food choices really do affect the health of the planet and the entire ecosystem in which we live, move, and have our being.  Sears provides a useful service, by introducing the versitility of soy as a protein replacement for flesh-foods in a full-scale format.<br />My problem is, the book is not careful enough with the details, and one can't be too careful about diet! Diet is a very relative and individual matter. For example, the book does not even go as far as to consider the gender distinction and the recommended diet is a high protein-oriented, 'male' diet.  Most of us can actually do quite well with far less protein than Sears recommends.<br />A more dangerous omission is the lack of a detailed discussion of the GMO soy crisis.  Soy production is one of the largest arenas for genetically-modified seed.  We don't really know what the effects of this type of biotech gene-altering, tampering with the food supply will create.  The problem is not adequately addressed in the book.  My advice is to stick with organic soy products and make sure they are labelled non-GMO (required by FDA regulations), unless you want to be a \\"guinea-pig\\" for this type of experimentation which, to reiterate, is currently rampant in commercial soy agriculture which is basically controlled by a few giant agro-corporations and not heavily regulated.	2004-02-19
US	49737439	R3LPHX473TAIA8	0910261113	426784975	The Gospel of Buddha	Books	3	13	17	N	N	Better translations of this essential work are available	Carus was an interesting figure in Anglo-American philosophy and we owe him much. He was a friend to and publisher of the great Charles Peirce, when he was universally condemned and shunted by the academic community, and a champion of many other philosophies, which were most definitely not mainstream in 19th century America, through his Open Court Press. He promoted Eastern philosophies which were a novelty at the time (circa 1890s)and translated Buddhist and Taoist texts.<br />The Dhammapada is an exquisite and essential collection of the basic philosophy of Buddhism, in what we would call blank verse, a pocket-size distillation of the huge Tripitaka (the general collection of the original discourses of the Buddha) made by monks about 700 years after his death in the early 5th century B.C.<br />This particular translation is, in my opinion, somewhat antiquated, has been superceded by many others, which are more contemporary, poetic, accurate, and/or informative.  I like the diminuative volume available from Auroville Press, with commentaries of the Mother, recorded in the late 1950's.	2004-02-11
US	49737439	R2GVFHCG8QDLCS	0486411206	382777141	Wisdom of the Buddha: The Unabridged Dhammapada (Dover Thrift Editions)	Books	5	27	28	N	N	A Majestic Gift Beautifully Translated	The Dhammapada (in Pali/the Lankan scriptural language as derived from the original Pankrit), or the Dharmapada (in Sanskrit), the Pali being the original, in this case, is a pocket-size selection of the \\"essence\\" of Gotama Buddha's thought (the dhamma, or dharma) culled from the massive Tripitaka, the comprehensive collection of all of the Buddha's recorded discourses.  The selection was made by the Sangha (the Buddhist community (in those days monks and nuns) somtime between 200 to 700 years after the death of Gotama Buddha in the fifth century B.C.  The succintness, gravity, and beauty of these verses has more than stood the test of time.<br />The Dhammapada is, in my opinion (I first heard the dhamma formally in this lifetime in 1970), the best introduction to the buddha/dhamma: a bedside book, a wake-up book, a wonderful and lifelong friend.<br />This translation was among the first in a European language.  Muller was an enormous figure in religious studies, who in the late nineteeth century conceived, edited, and contributed to the encyclopediac fifty tome collection of translations of Sacred Texts of the East of which this work is one volume. The original companion texts seemed to have been deleted for this paperbound edition. In any case, Muller's notes have been included and are useful, though at times, obscure.<br />The translation is strictly nineteeth century prose, and exhibits both pros and cons of the genre.  At times the translation may not suit our criteria for either accuracy or aesthetic refinement.  However, as Gracian has said, to be first is to be great, and Max M was most definitely, along with Szekeley the elder . . . first.<br />Which ever translation of the Dhammapada you choose, please do chose one.  The work is exqisite and explains the dhamma (if possible) better than any book I know (Shobogenzo 2nd at this moment).  Although I still have my Muller, I myself prefer the diminuitive translation with commentaries by The Mother (not Anadamayi, but the French sanyassin who hung out with Sri Aurobindo in the the mid twentieth century.  The commentaries in this tiny book are brief talks she gave in the late fifties and always appropriate.  The book can be procured through Auroville, Aurobindo's ashram, or perhaps on Amazon).  However, the Muller is quite sufficient and inspiring.ayi, but the French sanyassin who hung out with Sri Aurobindo in the the mid twentieth century.  The commentaries in this tiny book are brief talks she gave in the late fifties and always appropriate.  The book can be procured through Auroville, Aurobindo's ashram, or perhaps on Amazon).  However, the Muller is quite sufficient and inspiring.	2004-02-10
US	49737439	R388DM84VQMZCH	189336142X	661236395	Dhammapada : Annotated & Explained	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Majestic Gift /Beautifully Translated	The Dhammapada (in Pali/the Lankan scriptural language as derived from the original Pankrit), or the Dharmapada (in Sanskrit), the Pali being the original, in this case, is a pocket-size selection of the \\"essence\\" of Gotama Buddha's thought (the dhamma, or dharma) culled from the massive Tripitaka, the comprehensive collection of all of the Buddha's recorded discourses.  The selection was made by the Sangha (the Buddhist community (in those days monks and nuns) somtime between 200 to 700 years after the death of Gotama Buddha in the fifth century B.C.  The succintness, gravity, and beauty of these verses has more than stood the test of time.<br />The Dhammapada is, in my opinion (I first heard the dhamma formally in this lifetime in 1970), the best introduction to the buddha/dhamma: a bedside book, a wake-up book, a wonderful and lifelong friend.<br />This translation was among the first in a European language.  Mueller was an enormous figure in religious studies, who in the late nineteeth century conceived, edited, and contributed to the encyclopediac fifty tome collection of translations of Sacred Texts of the East of which this work is one volume.The companion texts seemed to have been deleted for this paperbound edition.  However, Muller's notes are informative although sometimes obscure.<br />The translation is strictly nineteeth century prose, and exhibits both pros and cons of the genre.  At times the translation may not suit our criteria for either accuracy or aesthetic refinement.  However, as Gracian has said, to be first is to be great, and Max M was most definitely, along with Szekeley the elder . . . first.<br />Which ever translation of the Dhammapada you choose, please do chose one.  The work is exqisite and explains the dhamma (if possible) better than any book I know (Shobogenzo 2nd at this moment).  Although I still have my Muller, I myself prefer the diminuitive translation with commentaries by The Mother (not Anadamayi, but the French sanyassin who hung out with Sri Aurobindo in the the mid twentieth century.  The commentaries in this tiny book are brief talks she gave in the late fifties and always appropriate.  The book can be procured through Auroville, Aurobindo's ashram, or perhaps on Amazon).  However, the Muller is quite sufficient and inspiring.who hung out with Sri Aurobindo in the the mid twentieth century.  The commentaries in this tiny book are brief talks she gave in the late fifties and always appropriate.  The book can be procured through Auroville, Aurobindo's ashram, or perhaps on Amazon).  However, the Muller is quite sufficient and inspiring.	2004-02-10
US	49737439	R3GA2H6YRQBO6O	0824814010	299201794	Shobogenzo.:Zen Essays by Dogen	Books	4	3	5	N	N	dharma eye new moon size	A useful &quot;best of&quot; selection of Dogen's enormous masterwork.  Cleary is generally dependable in this venture. While not as comprehensive as &quot;Moon in a Dewdrop&quot;, the book has the virtue of fitting very neatly into a backpack. As 'wisdom imparts wisdom to wisdom', highly recommended.	2004-02-08
US	49737439	R1XA0WA941NJA5	0316184152	560886000	Final Harvest: Poems	Books	5	1	1	N	N	The Loaded Gun Which	Everyone who aims for the ultimate, the elusive, and the exquisite, ought to pack.  The edition is affordable, durable, well-organized, comprehensive . . . and produced with care NOT to alter the form or format of the poems . . . which for some dreadful reason a lot of folks seem to feel compelled to do . . .<br /><br />more importantly . . . all that white witchcraft still dazzles<br /><br />For those whose aquiantance with the Belle of Amherst is limited to the classroom edition - i.e., There is no Frigate Like a Book, et al., look again.  Dickenson really is the epitome of the rugged individualist - a free spirit - in ways surprisingly opposed to her contemporary, Whitman, she arrives at similar conclusions going no further than her garden. She is the inward sojourner - at home in the harshest tensions and conflicts of the psyche - where her distinctly feminine sensitivity speaks truth in \\"slant\\" - as she qualifies her enormous insight.<br /><br />Most haunting: 'Success is counted sweetest', 'To learn the Transport by the Pain', 'My life closed twice before its close', and, \\"My Life had stood - a Loaded Gun -\\".  Dickenson laments our sovereign anguish, our exile from the immediate truth or the comprehensive immediacy of truth, the quest for which her poems articulate an urgent hunger enveloped in alternately the most naturistically ambient references or stonily direct terms.	2004-02-07
US	49737439	R2A9W8MVENV9R9	0911206019	141879700	The Gospel of Sri Ramakrishna	Books	5	11	13	N	N	Unquestionably Divine and Maybe the Greatest	No one quite says IT for our times, our crazed and fallen times, like Ramakrishna. OM HARE. The one book I know of on this site ... my soul cannot seem to do without. Perhaps, because I know of no other book which gives such clear, detailed, and comprehensive instructions for bringing oneslf to a state of peaceful fulfillment (given in penetrating, simple, benign, and eloquent generosity, by one whom from universal, ongoing testimonial actually attained such a permanent state of being).  An awesome read.	2004-02-06
US	49737439	R2NV151HH3J7SN	0824810147	948711254	Shobogenzo: Zen Essays by Dogen	Books	4	3	5	N	N	new moon size dharma eye	For casual or beginning students, a very useful, selected 'best of', summary type of collection.  Cleary appears dependable in this venture.  Moon in a Dewdrop is more complete, but does not fit in the backpack nearly as well.	2004-02-06
US	49737439	R3BERNED2B5G17	0671640984	313458539	The Mountain People	Books	5	12	23	N	N	Classic field study of undeniable relevance	Turnbull's study of the Ik is less known than his Forest People, yet speaks with far more relevance to our present condition. The formerly prosperous, but now starving Ik, scratch out a bare existence in their resource-depleted environment by adopting an extreme libertarianism - yep, &quot;the virtue of selfishness&quot; - which corporate hustlers, like those in the Bush/Reagan administrations, have been using as de facto ethical justification for their policies since the early post WWII years when Ayn Rand first gave them &quot;acceptable&quot; articulation. Turnbull concisely details, under these conditions, the brutal breakdown of every ethical bond we hold sacred, adumbrating a terrifying portrait of human relations in a society which undeniably mirrors the rougher edges of our own.<br />Best citation: &quot;Goodness&quot;, marangik, is simply defined as &quot;food&quot;, or, if you press, this will be clarified as &quot;the possession food&quot;, and still further clarified as &quot;individual possession of food&quot;. (defeats naturalist fallacy)	2003-05-13
US	49737439	R3NFM4VMW3GM7B	0521293294	945557213	Philosophy of Logics	Books	5	19	25	N	N	Most lucid and accessible introduction to the field by far	Philosophy of logic . . . well, a discipline which really must be learned at the feet of a master.  But for us ordinary folk who have to get through logic courses, Haack's book, despite the odd title, is a masterpiece of lucidity, simplicity, and comprehensiveness, in a field where virtually all other entrees read like &quot;greek&quot; for the greekless, or . . .  well, logic for the ???	2003-05-06
