US	49754789	R3JQJAU0H2ZN9K	0064405176	48976284	Walk Two Moons	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Disturbing, but worth reading if your child is mature enough	This wonderful book outshines Creech's later work.  The book has many disturbing elements -- a missing parent who turns out to be dead, for example (to give away the plot) -- but it's tastefully and beautifully written.  I can't recommend it highly enough, just as I can't recommend strongly enough that your child be emotionally ready to read the material.	2003-06-06
US	49754789	R38AMZSS09IHFE	0590353403	667539744	Harry Potter And The Sorcerer's Stone	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Superb book -- one problem	My children and I have loved the Harry Potter books thoroughly, and this one, the first, is also one of the best -- perhaps because the concept behind the series is new and exciting.  A boy discovers he's a wizard.  Need I say more?  Most children day-dream about that sort of idea.  As to the plot:  the narrative never gets bogged down by excess prose, and there are always surprises.  AND the book is funny.  My problem with the this book -- and the series as a whole -- is that the witches and wizards of the magical world are never very pleasant to (and sometimes awful to) the magical creatures.  It's funny when garden gnomes (live ones) are pulled up like weeds and, unhurt, tossed over a fence. Somehow, though, whether mandrakes are being repotted (later to be made into a potion) or cornish pixies escape (I'm mixing incidents from different volumes),  there seems to be almost war between the human magical world and the magical world of creatures.  I still think this is a wonderful read -- and what has been said about the book being bad for children because it's about witchcraft (satanic!) is absolute nonsense.  Enjoy.	2003-06-06
US	49754789	R2640A8AUE5FDX	0393007855	705671980	Richard the Third	Books	5	31	40	N	N	O.K., I'm biased, but I had to check in.	Since I'm Paul Murray Kendall's daughter, and since I wrote the introduction to this edition, my predilection for my father's meticulous scholarship and his way of making biography come alive, is obvious.  This book, however (my favoritism aside), has corrected a multitude of misconceptions about Richard -- and, though I say it, the book's a good read.  I just couldn't help writing this.	2003-06-06
US	49754789	RK6HA22Y68DSO	0440219078	55490378	The Giver (21st Century Reference)	Books	3	0	4	N	N	A Dissenter From the Acclaim Given This Book	My son wouldn't finish this book.  I did, but I didn't enjoy it at all.  We're in a fantasy world (something I usually like), but one where the rules of the game are never really explained -- this means that incidents happen without, seemingly, making sense in the terms of the world we are plunged into.  Also (and this is why my son wouldn't finish it) the book is depressing in a way I found not only cruel, but gratuitous.  I have no problem letting my son read \\"The Yearling\\" or other books where the outcome is far from pleasant, but the ending of this one seemed nasty in a way that's acceptable perhaps because of the culture we live in.  I felt a lesson was being pushed down my throat -- and I didn't like the lesson.  I know the book won an award -- but it's not the only winner of the Newbery that may prove not to age well.	2003-06-06
US	49754789	R2E4X0MQXFYV42	006029809X	517650990	The Trouble Begins: A Box of Unfortunate Events, Books 1-3 (The Bad Beginning; The Reptile Room; The Wide Window)	Books	4	31	33	N	N	My children can't get enough	I enjoy reading these books to my children, and my eldest reads and re-reads them on his own.  The only thing annoying to me as a reader is Sir Lemony's habit of explaining what words mean.  Yet this annoyance to me is a source of joy to my seven year old, who doesn't have to ask what words mean and thus interrupt the story.  This stylistic habit of Mr. Snicket also means that my child is learning a lot of new words -- and that the books are not written DOWN to children but respect their intelligence.  Also, the iconoclastic nature of this new genre of book makes them truly fun to read and easy to relish.  Children don't really like goody-goody books -- mine, at least (and I bet yours), see at once they are being condescended to.  Lemony Snicket's works are both fun, genre-breaking, and, (thus undermining my word \\"both\\") terrific reads.	2003-06-06
US	49754789	R9CECP9RPGWBV	0064471071	671298565	The Voyage of the Dawn Treader (The Chronicles of Narnia, Book 5)	Books	5	10	12	N	N	Plot Overcomes Allegory:  Hurray!	This is the best of the Narnia series. C.S. Lewis allows the plot to get away occasionally from his strict form of Christian allegory. Moreover, the  book is funny and episodic and exciting. And it's about getting to know  yourself and changing what you don't like.<br />  Unexplored waters and  unknown lands create a magic of their own in which Lucy and Edmund and,  especially, Eustace -- having magically found themselves on board the Dawn  Treader --can come to terms with their weakness and strength.  The Dark  Island, where all dreams (not just good ones!) come true, Deathwater Island  -- the place of greed, Dragon Island, where Eustace turns into a dragon  (which, of course, he was on the inside all along), Ramandu's island, the  sea people's land, the house of the Retired Star, and more,  reveal what  stuff these children are made on.  What their mettle is may not always  exemplary, but in this book at least, characters can change.  Eustace can  be un-dragoned and become a changed child (having dragon skin a foot deep  ripped off by a lion would, I think, inevitably result in change).  This is  a book of deep, miraculous possibility.  As a child, I read *The Voyage of  the Dawn Treader* until it fell apart, and I've gone through another copy  since.<br />My only criticism is this:  C. S. Lewis, having loosened his  strangle-hold on his constricting Christian allegory,   occasionally seems  to feel obliged to bring in something really ham-handed.  It's most  annoying. The most egregious intrusion  occurs when the children encounter,  in the middle of nowhere, a milky white lamb frying fish on the open grass.   How the heck does a lamb fry fish?  Where does he get fish?  Where does he  get the frying pan?  Why do we *need* this for the plot?  The Lamb of God  (Christ), communion, fish. Cringe. It's all tossed into the pot and left  somehow to be digested. There are fabulous Christian allegories; this is  not one of them. I would to say that this is the only placein the entire  series where C.S. Lewis' allegory truly and absolutely and utterly crashes  and burns.    But one Lamb doesn't stop this from being a great book.  *The  Voyage of the Dawn Treader* provides delight, wonder, and best of all, a  promise of a second chance for every one of us.	2000-09-03
US	49754789	RZ8JYQ0CGVO5O	0140348107	289651761	My Side of the Mountain (Puffin Books)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Nicely Surviving in Nature:  Serial Killers Need Not Apply	You *could* worry about this book by looking at it this way:  *My Side of the Mountain* will give your child wanderlust, give him/her lots of hints  about living alone in the woods, does not mention psitacoccis (a bird  disease I probably just misspelled), or roving bands of wild dogs or rabid  chipmonks, or serial killers.  The book is about Sam, who manages to  survive and thrive in the wilderness, befriend Frightful, a falcon, and  spend little or no time worrying about his family.<br />But there is nothing  at all to worry about as far as the influence of this book is concerned.   Quite the contrary.<br />*My Side of the Mountain* will not send children into  the wilderness in droves. Tenting in the back yard continues to be our  preferred style of camping rough.  The book, any child will know, is  fantasy.  Safe fantasy.<br />And perhaps above all else this is a marvelously  *safe* book:  we know we can't be like Sam (leaving family for the wild),  but we can love thinking about it.  Children can wallow in a tale of  independence. And perhaps one day I'll find out whether or not Sam is  right, and water takes the bitterness out of acorn flour.<br />But this book  gives more than nature lessons.  Sam manages on his own; in so doing he  lives our most fun and most feared fantasy -- that of growing up.	2000-09-01
US	49754789	R28FQI3KR40WDE	0439139597	667539744	Harry Potter And The Goblet Of Fire (Book 4)	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Fabulous Fantasy!  But Don't Bite Me For a Few Observations	The Harry Potter books have been pursuing me. Like Tom Riddle's diary (*Chamber of Secrets*), they just won't go away.  Finally I peeked at  *Harry Potter and the Sorcerer's Stone* (which had been slyly lurking by my  desk just waiting to be found) and I was lost. Over a thousand pages later,  I had negotiated all the books, going without sleep to finish *The Goblet  of Fire* -- even eating as I turned the pages (I got chili all over my  shirt).  These books are *good*.  These books make me want to be fourteen  again (what more could I possibly say?), and to go to Hogswarts.  Heck, I  want it all!  I want an owl.  I want an invisibility cloak.  I want a  broom. I want to marry Bill Weasley even though I'm old enough to be his  mother.  But most of all, like the children who read these books, I want  the family romance to come true.  Surely my true parents were witches and  wizards -- how could it not be? And how can I get a lightning bolt scar  without cheating?<br />But I have some minor (don't send me Howlers!) quibbles  with all the books.  Like Hermione, I'm not pleased with the care of  magical creatures, and I'm pretty darn uncomfortable with those house elves  who are happy being slaves and can't handle their freedom.  It's a little  too much in bad taste (I'm avoiding the &quot;r&quot; word like crazy).  Then there's the hippogriff that's going to be executed for scratching a  disobedient and nasty student.  We have benign garden gnomes that are swung  until dizzy and then thrown a distance of fifty feet.  There's an illicit  trade in dragons' eggs -- though we know in book 4 that dragons are  protective of those eggs.  Stores sell dragon liver by the pound. Unicorns  have their tail hairs put into wands (so do phoenixes) and Unicorn blood  drunk by you-know-who.  Mandrakes seem very human indeed, but their fate is  to be chopped up into bits.  Spiders are nasty.  Snakes don't do well in  this world.  The bottom line is that the wizard world of Harry Potter  treats its magical creatures the way our human world, for the most part,  treats its unmagical creatures.  Which is to say, not well. They appear to  exist only to be used by the wizards and witches. I don't like that.<br />But  I love the book.  Will it stand the test of time?  I don't know.  But I do  know that this dark, nightmarish, funny, quirky book makes for a great  read. Read it, read it more than once.  But consider wearing  some of those  seemingly silly pins that Hermione hands out to help the house elves.treats its magical creatures the way our human world, for the most part,  treats its unmagical creatures.  Which is to say, not well. They appear to  exist only to be used by the wizards and witches. I don't like that.<br />But  I love the book.  Will it stand the test of time?  I don't know.  But I do  know that this dark, nightmarish, funny, quirky book makes for a great  read. Read it, read it more than once.  But consider wearing  some of those  seemingly silly pins that Hermione hands out to help the house elves.	2000-08-29
US	49754789	R1BXC0NPN1YO9Z	014036708X	821147390	Pinocchio (Puffin Classics)	Books	5	66	68	N	N	Rabbit Undertakers and a Dead Girl	This is not Disney's watered-down and water-logged *Pinocchio* -- this is the book that has the real stuff, and if children like the Disney movie,  it's because they're getting a hint of the wonders of Collodi's  book.<br />First:  my five year old insisted I read this book to him twice in  a row.  Yes, I left out the part where Pinocchio actually bites off the paw  of a cat and spits it out, but my boy revelled (from the safe distance of  bed and sippy cup in hand) in the assassins who pursue Pinocchio, try to  kill him, and leave him swinging from a tree.  The incidents in this book  are highly evocative:  a little girl announces that all the people in a  house are dead (she included); rabbit undertakers appear when Pinocchio  won't take his medicine; Pinocchio is almost fried as a fish (and drowned,  and hanged, etc.).  There's a talking cricket, but he's annoying and,  happily, does *not* burst into song.<br />Second: This book centers around  dream-logic.  The book makes mechanical gestures towards cause and effect,  but it really works the way a child thinks and the way a child worries --  it reassures a child that not everything that happens is reasonable.   Perhaps Collodi meant this book to be moralistic -- certainly there are  lessons constantly to be learned.  But that the least of this text:  this  is a story about a boy who can't quite be a boy because he's naughty and  disobedient, and he finds it isn't easy *not* to be naughty.  Grown-ups  have all sorts of rules, and a lot of them don't make much sense.  After  all, we all come into this world not yet human, and we all struggle to  figure out what is expected of us.<br />The illustrations are are pleasing and  plentiful, and I know it will only be a matter of time before my five year  old asks for the story again.  I'll be glad to read it.  The worth of the  tale is far greater than the worth of the simple (but good) morals it  contains.	2000-08-26
US	49754789	R1FIS5KRPG5VKV	0689828896	421192126	The Hoboken Chicken Emergency	Books	3	38	51	N	N	When a Giant Chicken Falls Flat	Before I ordered this book, I read the reviews.  I bcame convinced this must be a zany, funny book -- just the thing for my children.  So I went  ahead and ordered not *The Hoboken Chicken Emergency&quot; only, but a  volume of novels by Pinkwater.  Oh, well.  It's only money (though it could  have been better spent elsewhere).<br />*The Hoboken Chicken Emergency* does  have a wonderful premise and some satire as well (hence my pleasure at  reading its reviews).  I suppose it also has lessons to be learned about  fearing the unknown -- but didacticism is not enough to make a good book.   Nothing  covers up for the fact that this book just plain isn't very good  -- not for a modern child to read.  I knew I was in trouble when I began  reading it aloud to my son:  each sentence had a dying fall, and the wit  was strained, not spontaneous and fetching. &quot;What am I getting  into,&quot; I thought.  Henrietta the chicken is lost and Henrietta is  found, but the whole thing was a contest to see if I could finish the book  before my child rebelled -- or I did.<br />Sad to say, this book shows its  age.  Some of the writing, too, needs polish.  If you are tempted to buy  this self-consciously zany book, buy *I Was a Rat* instead.  *I Was a Rat*  is all heart.  *The Hoboken Chicken Emergency*  is all lumpy prose. I'm  hoping for better things with the other Pinkwater volumes I purchased, but  we shall have to see.  I love older rediscovered books, but this one  doesn't work. Children expect more depth of story, not just cleverness at  the expense of story.  I'm very sure readers have fond memories of this  book, but memory alone cannot bring the book alive for a modern audience.   Give *The Hoboken Chicken Emergency* a pass, and go for a funny book that's  meaty with heart and soul. If *I Was a Rat&quot; doesn't appeal, you might  try *The Little Prince* (Antoine de Sainte-Exupery) -- my son doesn't  really understand it, but he loves it and seems to recognize that thereare  real issues underlying the surface.	2000-08-25
US	49754789	R25VCSRH6U7W4U	0393311147	583166974	Sacred Hunger	Books	5	16	17	N	N	The Hunger That Never Dies	This is one of the most painful books I have ever read, and my action of mailing copies to my closest friends is both an action of great friendship  and great sadism.  This story of the slave-trade and a new society formed  after one slave-ship escapes -- through sickness, mutiny, opportunity --  pains as much as it pleases.  Characters we live with and love are hunted  down by characters who see them only as animals.  We see both societies  that can come about, only to face the fact that they will not be permitted  to exist -- will be hunted mercilessly.<br />And from the very beginning of  the book, we know that events will come to a very bad end, that a paradise  found will be recalled only by a pathetic old man (who we later know in his  youth) whose strange stories tell us, before the book unfolds,  that  paradise will be lost -- *is* lost before it is even found.  As for the  irony of the title, *Sacred Hunger* seems to be the insatiable  imperialistic drive towards hierarchy according to skin color, slavery,  world expansion.  It is small consolation that their seems no curbing of  that voracious hunger.<br />I find that once I send this book to a friend, I  follow up to make sure it's been read.  Like Coleridge's wedding guest, I  need to impart this story.  I lurk near the wedding guests, ready to leap  out with the tale.<br />It reached my soul, and may yours.	2000-08-24
US	49754789	RYUVR5OA2YWZQ	0590472674	558674324	The Great Fire (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	13	13	N	N	A Great Book About The Great Fire	This non-fiction historical book for children is the opposite of dry and boring.  Murphy brings alive the excitement and terror of Chicago's Great  Fire by incorporating dialogue, first-hand accounts, drawings, engravings,  and newspaper reports.  My ten year old son could not put this book down  (and he usually reads only fiction).  In the skilled writing of Jim Murphy,  The Great Fire of Chicago is at once the story of a city and the story of  very different people in that city reacting to sudden disastor. Maps and  enticing chapter titles (&quot;3.'The Dogs of Hell Were Upon the  Housetops'&quot;) lead the reader into the story and I, for one, did not  emerge from the book until I reached the end.<br /> *The Great Fire* is an  excellent introduction to reading history, as well as being a really good  read.  My only quandary is this:  which of Murphy's books shall I order  now?  My ten year can't wait to consume the next one.	2000-08-22
US	49754789	R1GJS044HF21JI	0590472674	558674324	The Great Fire (Newbery Honor Book)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	A Great Book About The Great Fire	This non-fiction historical book for children is the opposite of dry and boring.  Murphy brings alive the excitement and terror of Chicago's Great  Fire by incorporating dialogue, first-hand accounts, drawings, engravings,  and newspaper reports.  My ten year old son could not put this book down  (and he usually reads only fiction).  In the skilled writing of Jim Murphy,  The Great Fire of Chicago is at once the story of a city and the story of  very different people in that city reacting to sudden disastor. Maps and  enticing chapter titles (&quot;3.'The Dogs of Hell Were Upon the  Housetops'&quot;) lead the reader into the story and I, for one, did not  emerge from the book until I reached the end.<br /> *The Great Fire* is an  excellent introduction to reading history, as well as being a really good  read.  My only quandary is this:  which of Murphy's books shall I order  now?  My ten year can't wait to consume the next one.	2000-08-22
US	49754789	R26VWIS5NP70OE	0397321651	571846578	The Secret Garden: The 100th Anniversary Edition with Tasha Tudor Art	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Growing Up In Secret	My copy of *The Secret Garden* has lost its cover; all the pages are curled from being turned so many times; the text has faded to brown, and there's a big mark where I must have spilled something on it in my desire  to keep reading through a meal.<br />Mary Lennox, spoiled beyond belief,  sallow and plain, comes from India to Misselthwaite Manor in order to live  with her uncle.  The manor, however, is full of mystery, and the goal of  everyone seems to be to keep Mistress Mary out of the way and, preferably,  out of the house.  In the course of time, she discovers that the mystery of  the house is her cousin, Colin, a child almost as badly spoiled as she is,  and whom everyone has written off as likely to die.  Together, with a new  friend Dickon, Mary and Colin begin to take an interest in life.  They  begin to revive a secret walled up garden.<br />And, over time, gardening  makes them well in mind and spirit (one might note this down).  The seasons  change; the flowers bloom; the robin builds a nest.  The children are  growing up as the garden is transformed.  Colin becomes almost sturdy; Mary  is neither sallow nor plain.  The spoiled, peremptory rude little monsters  are gone.<br />I almost miss their dreadful ways at the end.  There's a  wonderful scene early on in which Colin throws a tantrum, and Mary  threatens to throw an even worse one unless he stops.  She claims to be  able to scream louder than he can, and I believe her.<br />Don't miss this  book. It takes its own time to unfold, but some things are best savored  slowly.	2000-07-29
US	49754789	R2I0CR7CG4461N	0590929550	534957867	Rocking Horse Christmas	Books	5	16	16	N	N	More Than Another Christmas Story	A small boy finds Shadow, a rocking horse, under the Christmas Tree.  In his imagination, the two ride to the West, joust, race Seattle Slew in the Kentucky Derby, and go on safari.  But then the inevitable happens:  the  boy starts to grow up, as boys always have and always will (it's at this  point I have a hard time reading this to my five year old without  pretending there's something in my eye).  Shadow ends up in the attic.   Years pass.<br />And then the boy's own little boy finds Shadow (as I read  this part to my son, there's more pretending that I have something in my  eye).  Shadow's spirit returns, and they &quot;flew through the sky all  Christmas Eve and didn't come home until dawn.&quot;<br />The illustrations of  this book are some of the best I've ever seen; the facts of growing up are  utterly convincing.  This book is delightful and devastating.  And there's  no need to wait for Christmas to read it:  we're Jewish, and we read it all  year round.	2000-07-28
US	49754789	RTET01XLOLCQO	0060283203	705570921	Throwing Smoke	Books	3	8	9	N	N	Genre Confusion	&quot;Did you like *Throwing Smoke*?&quot; I asked my ten year old son.<br />     &quot;Yeah,&quot; he said.<br />     &quot;Were the characters convincing?&quot; I asked.<br />     &quot;Yeah,&quot; he said.<br />      &quot;What about the dialogue?&quot; I asked.<br />     &quot;It was great.   But there was too much baseball.  Or something.&quot;<br />The baseball, of  course, was why I bought the book, and it seemed an odd statement coming  from a child who wouldn't put down Will Weaver's baseball trilogy even to  eat.  Then I read the book. <br />The dialogue *is* funny; the book, well  written, but the author places *Throwing Smoke* in a limbo of genre.   When  Whiz starts printing up baseball cards for fictional team players who  mysteriously come to life, the book (*strongly* rooted in baseball and  baseball terminology) turns towards the gothic.  These players, all ace at  what they do, are zombie like.  Where do they go at night?  What do they  secretly talk about together?  Why does nothing more interesting happen  with them?  Where the heck is this plot going?<br />*Thowing Smoke* raises  more questions about its tepid supernatural effects than the baseball frame  of the story can contain.  I will avoid details, but when a story enters  the world of the supernatural, rules must be followed, expectations must be  met.  In *Throwing Smoke*, they aren't.  As for the baseball  team-comraderie part of the book, well, that's not very compelling either  -- the supernatural material is too distracting.  *Throwing Smoke*, much as  I wanted to like it, pulls in two direction and can't come up with a  reconciliation between the two.  The book needs a fast ball, but it just  can't deliver.	2000-07-27
US	49754789	R3SW53XYOBUKOG	0375801766	916992046	I Was A Rat!	Books	5	39	41	N	N	I'm a Rat; You're a Rat	Mix together the Untold Secrets of the Cinderella story, alittle Dickens, some satire of the tabloids, a jab or two at the royalfamily, and a little boy who tries to be good although he is, admittedly, a bit ratty in his habits, and you get a book that's new and funny and charming.<br />For adults, much of the fun comes from figuring out early on that the boy who arrives on the doorstep of Bob (cobbler) and Joan (washerwoman) is Cinderella's rat-footman who was busy playing soccer in the castle when the coach and horses went back to being a pumpkin and some mice.  For children (mine at least), the book transfixes even if (in the case of my youngest) the secret of Roger's rattiness remains a mystery.  And Roger's rattiness itself delights: he likes to gnaw and nibble -- bits of leather, tassels, bell-ropes.  The way he looks at these chewables makes my mouth water. I'm glad that at the end of the book he's still a bit of a nibbler -- although much improved, as Bob is proud to point out.<br />These are good reasons to run out and get this book; but they're not the only reasons or even the best.  *I Was a Rat* has a depth that many excellent books lack.  It's a book about growing up, about moving away from instinctual ratty behavior to being a good child.  And it's hard to be a good child.  Grown-ups are a strange breed who impose strange rules; they punish children for curious reasons.  O.K., you may not have eaten your teacher's pencils, but what about the paints that you innocently spilled all over the rug?  This book is about growing up and about how it's a hard journey that's never entirely completed.  As Mary Jane (Princess Aurelia to us) points out at the end, even wishes coming true can complicate matters.<br />*I Was a Rat*, however, leaves us cozy and warm.  Roger is with Bob and Joan, who have learned what it is to be parents.  They sit around the hearth as a family and the world, &quot;a difficult place&quot;, is outside, but they have &quot;toasted cheeseand love.&quot; Who could ask for more?	2000-07-24
US	49754789	R2Y9B8QQ8CHOSE	080930743X	55941138	British Dramatists from Dryden to Sheridan	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Nettleton rules!	Desperation can be the source of wisdom.  I've known for a year that this fall I'll be teaching restoration and 18th century drama.  Worse, I volunteered to do so.  Worse yet, as of yesterday I had only 7 weeks left  in which to pick a text of plays.  And absolutely worst of all, while  trying to look up restoration and 18th century texts on the Web, I found my  own course staring me in the face:  &quot;English 232, Smith College,  Gillian Kendall&quot;.  Yikes! It was definitely time to find a  text.<br />Nettleton saved me.  I had been about to order a completely new  edition of the plays (sample copy graciously sent to me by the publisher),  albeit the edition was in many ways, well, let's say &quot;not quite right  for the course&quot;.  Then I went to the library.  Despite the  recommendation of a friend -- a renowned 18th century expert -- I had been  suspicious of Nettleton.  The copyright on the edition I looked at was 17  years before I was born (sorry about the ageism, Mr. Nettleton).  But the  volume has everything.  Lovely grandiose heroic drama (but not too much of  it); Dryden's adaptation of Shakespeare's *Antony and Cleopatra*; five  classic comedies of manners (the backbone of restoration drama), and a  pleasant smorgasbord of the best of the 18th century.<br />I have a text.  My  students have a text.  Life is good.	2000-07-22
US	49754789	R2NOEUMTI2MZJK	0316777730	1192464	Naked	Books	4	5	5	N	N	A Great Place to Visit	The fiendish prose of David Sedaris, once I got past the disorienting first chapter, held me hostage.  Never once did I want to be part of this family, but by gosh, I kept wanting to extend my visit.  By the time I  reached &quot;next of kin&quot;, I had  surrendered all my critical  objectivity, and simply gloried in the family's reaction to the dreadfully  proofread pornographic novel that gives the chapter its title.  Part of the  tremendous humor lies in *naked*'s truths:  all children know where their  parents keep the porno -- if there is any.  (My mother's copy of *Fanny  Hill* was hidden behind the fourth shelf above her bed).  <br />On the other  hand, the faint aura of loneliness that hovers over the text keeps this  book from being a quick joke. The conclusion of &quot;the incomplete  quad&quot; -- the unsentimental tale of travels with a quadriplegic -- does  not spare the reader. And throughout *naked*, as I laughed, I was also  haunted by a son who knows his mother is lying for him (&quot;the drama  bug&quot;), and whose father tells deliciously gruesome tales and wonders  why his children have no gumption (&quot;Cyclops&quot;).  I confess that  all those tics (&quot;a plague of tics&quot;) also worried me.  That may  come of being a mother.<br />Three major points:  *naked* made me laugh hard.   Really hard.  I even sent a copy of *naked* to my nephew for his birthday.   And, finally, and not least,  I am delighted that at last I understand the  importance of a towel at a nudist colony.	2000-07-21
US	49754789	R3AOMZ1I85O4Z0	0694006246	441768603	Big Red Barn	Books	5	83	87	N	N	Nice and Sweet and Sleepy	There must be 1,000 kiddie farm books lurking out there, and I bet most of them are bad.  *Big Red Barn*, however, is neither &quot;kiddie&quot; nor bad.  The book seems to speak to the child; the tone is quiet, and, for once, we get to see farm animals and the farm on a day and night when  &quot;the children are away.&quot;  This is an animal's view of the big red  barn and the meadow around it.  A deserted child's toy bucket serves the  mouse as a place to look around.  The corn grows not for the farmer  (unmentioned in the tale), but to protect the newborn field mice.  The  scarecrow is exceptionally cheerful. The animals and their offspring squeal  and low and bray and play and eat in the meadow.  When darkness come, they  wend their way back to the barn and curl up cozily, as the bats, their time  come round, fly out of the hayloft.<br />The book works soothing wonders in  effacing the farmer and his children, and lets us see a world we normally  only imagine.  I wager many a parent has fallen alseep with a child while  reading this charming book -- everything is so safe, and so calming, as the  vibrant colors of the day illustrations give way to those of dusk and  night.<br />Bedtime books don't get much better than this.	2000-06-10
US	49754789	R1J1S08RTJQLVT	0345425502	560118008	The Life of Elizabeth I	Books	5	190	199	N	N	The Scholar Submits	Yeah, O.K., I'm a Shakespeare scholar -- the kind that writes articles 7 people in the world read (and one of them's my husband, and I think he only reads the beginning and the end).  I knew I shouldn't like this book.  I  was ready not to like this book.  I was ready to indulge in a feeding  frenzy of nit-picking.<br />The problem is, I really liked the book.  Really.   Sure, this is a popular treatment of Elizabeth I's life, but what does that  mean?  It means that Weir occasionally glosses over complexities and that  her prose is jargon free.  She doesn't enter any spiral-of-doom of arcane  theory, and she seems to have a good time romping around the Renaissance.   I couldn't put the darn book down.<br />Perhaps what shows the honesty of this  book is an admission Weir makes herself:  she set out to show Elizabeth I's  private life, and found she could not.  No reader should miss that this is  a world in which the very concept of a private life has yet to be  articulated in any way familiar to us.  Weir didn't come up empty (as she  seems to think); she enables us, through her presentation, to realize the  ways in which privacy in the Renaissance *isn't*.  Weir searched for the  inner Elizabeth and didn't find her, making us wonder about the entire  issue of interiority.<br />I wanted more, of course, more subtlety, more  arcane documents, a more clearly articulated point-of-view (and less  psychoanalysis, though there isn't much).  But this book is sound -- and  it's not to be condescended to.  I dare attach my name to that.	2000-06-10
US	49754789	RCVZCJR83GJBI	0394800060	811050382	Sam and the Firefly	Books	5	64	66	N	N	This Book Works Brilliantly	I have never forgotten reading *Sam and the Firefly* as a child, and I never will.  One of my children projects all of his naughty deeds onto Sam; the other wants me to be sure to read every single word on every single page.  This is a book that, on all levels, just plain works.<br />Gus is a  law-abiding owl who teaches Sam to make words with his fire-fly light.  Sam  likes the words but soon is into mischief, writing &quot;cold dogs&quot;  above a hot dog stand and nearly causing a riot by writing &quot;free&quot;  above a movie theater.  His tricks border on the dark as he almost causes  cars to collide.  The scary darkness of the tale never comes to anything  but engages the reader completely.  My children worried about the outcome,  and wondered (like Gus) how to control Sam.  The book even becomes tense  when Sam ends up in a closed glass jar and needs rescuing. <br />Yes, Gus is a  lot like a parent.  Sam is a lot like a child. And the book is full of  learning to read and testing limits and innocently causing real danger and  true friendship and sticking together and...it amazes me how seamlessly  Eastman puts all of this material together in a riveting story.  This may  be the best Eastman book of all.  It may also be one of the least preachy  and most educational books I know.  Dark and light, good and bad.  It's all  there.	2000-06-09
US	49754789	R1DNOBVH7N1A3	0689707495	525995237	Cloudy With a Chance of Meatballs	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Universal Fantasy	Some of us may be lucky enough never to have to worry about the next meal, but our genes must always be anxious, realizing, as our frivolous brains may not, that food is a need, and its source is a concern.  *Cloudy With a  Chance of Meatballs,* a funny, engaging, sophisticated little tale, plays  with that hard-wired anxiety.<br />In the town of Chewandswallow, food comes  with the weather.  &quot;Everything that everyone ate came from the  sky.&quot;  It rains soup and juice and thunderstorms hamburgers.  People  are always ready for the next inundation of pie or chicken with plates and  cutlery, and the town has a clever and ecologically sound way of dealing  with leftovers.  Then, alas, the weather turns bad.  To my children's glee,  a giant flapjack closes down the school.  And one day there are  &quot;fifteen-inch drifts of cream cheese and jelly sandwiches.&quot;  The  people must move and learn about stores.  Such is life.<br />*Cloudy With a  Chance of Meatballs* is a delight.  The illustrations radiate humor and add  to the story immeasurably (I can't forget the deer standing in the sunset  with lamb-chops and potatoes skewered on their antlers).  Illustrations and  text will fill parents and children with a marvellous fantasy of food --  and quell, for a moment, the anxieties of those food-oriented genes.	2000-06-09
US	49754789	R29J4H0N4QM153	0064430227	736970767	Harold and the Purple Crayon (Purple Crayon Books)	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Power and a Purple Crayon	*Harold and the Purple Crayon* mesmerized me as a child.  My 5 year old adores it, and my ten year old can't hide his continuing enthusiasm.  With his purple Crayon, sensible Harold creates the moon so that he can see  where he's going.  He accidentally creates the sea (his drawing hand  shakes, thus making waves appear) but soon negates this potential danger by  drawing a boat and, finally, land.  When hungry, Harold draws a delicious  picnic with purple food.  Harold copes.<br />The central idea is that a child,  no matter how small, can exert control over the world, and when that child  makes mistakes -- drawing a choppy sea, for instance -- those mistakes can  be remedied. This book gives a child power.  Grown-ups don't count; Harold  makes what he needs without help. Under the influence of this book, at the  ripe age of 11, I created a club called &quot;The Purple X&quot;, in which,  using purple markers to send letters, I set out to right all wrongs.   Harold goes one better; he makes light and land.  And the book makes  children who feel empowered to tackle the problems of a big, scary world.	2000-06-09
US	49754789	R2O2DBB0R8WGPI	0375706771	930468436	Midwives (Oprah's Book Club)	Books	3	5	5	N	N	This Book is NOT *To Kill A Mockingbird*	Every now and then I just don't get it, and such is the case with the popularity of *Midwives*.  Oh, yes, it's a page-turner, but I never lost a sense of unease as I turned those pages, wondering whether or not the  author was consciously mocking his characters.  The central midwife of the  book is an ex-hippie who bears the moniker &quot;Sibyl&quot;, who, on a  Dark and Stormy Night takes it into her head to perform a C-section on one  of her patients who looks pretty much dead.  Pretty much dead, the  prosecuting attourney points out, just might be different than really truly  dead.  Certainly Sibyl would not be my first choice as a midwife.  Botched  delivery aside, anybody who can call a contraction an &quot;aura  surge&quot; is not high on my list of those I would like attending to my  medical needs.  Sibyl's daughter, Connie, whose specialty is planting clues  for the reader, is traumatized by her mother's trial, and by what she knows  happened on The Dark and Stormy Night of the botched C-section.  Connie  worries me -- I dislike her faintly superior unpleasantness and, at the  same time, wonder if the author knows it's there.<br />The trial of the mother  for the events of that stormy night brings together a flock of nasty  anti-midwife doctors and lawyers and a herd of ex-hippie, pro-midwife,  breast-feeding earth mothers.  There is no-one in-between.  The court scene  should have power, but doesn't -- instead, it leans on readers' conditioned  reflex to material vaguely reminiscent  of *To Kill a Mockingbird.*<br />In  brief, time might be better spent re-reading that classic.  One last piece  of advice: if you are considering using a midwife rather than a doctor (a  choice I made), don't let this book worry you.  It has little or nothing to  do with the realities of midwifery.	2000-06-06
US	49754789	R27ZUQ5MLDUIHR	0380731479	529493659	The Kiss	Books	3	2	6	N	N	Outside Looking In	It will prove interesting to see reviewers attempt to bend the content of *The Kiss* into some kind of recognizable, hence manageable, shape.  Once catalogued as gothic, grotesque, pornographic or romantic, as brave or  cowardly, an exploitation or an exploration, a descent into evil or an  emergence from hell, *The Kiss* would become a manageable text and the  reader could find a way to experience second hand this disturbing memoir of  father-daughter incest.<br />*The Kiss*, however, refuses to take a nice tidy  shape for the reader's convenience. The clergyman father who later takes up  the breeding of pit bulls belongs to Faulkner, the Jewish grandparents who  raise the author tumble into the book from another planet, the mother who  remains a cipher resists our every reading. Indeed, the entire book  refuses, at all costs, to let us in -- no surprise, given the betrayal at  its center.  But there's something unsatisfying about this rejection of the  poor languishing reader. In the end, this reader felt left just plain too  far outside the circle of finely crafted prose.	2000-05-30
US	49754789	R154JBH7LVZWLJ	0440498058	598774312	A Wrinkle in Time (The Time Quartet)	Books	4	7	12	N	N	A Cuisinart of Genres	Don't get me wrong, when I read *A Wrinkle in Time* as a misfit 11 year old, I wanted to climb into this book and wrap it around me for protection.  Meg's epic journey to Camazotz to rescue her father  from the ur-Evil &quot;It&quot; seemed to rescue me, if only temporarily, from the agonies  of on-coming adolescence.  True, Meg, in her journey, has the help of her  genius-misfit brother, Charles Wallace, as well as the  genius-athlete-misfit Calvin, and the assorted semi-guardian angels, Mrs.  Who, Mrs. What, and Mrs. Which.  This book, however, makes redemption from  the awkwardness of existence seem possible.<br />This does not stop *A Wrinkle  in Time* from being somewhat of a generic mish-mash. L'Engle's work has a  dash of Orwell's *1984* mixed with a splash of C.S. Lewis' allegory.  She  has also tossed in space-time mechanisms suitable for science fiction,  three fairy tale witches who segue into being messenger's from God, a  couple of inhabited planets, a reluctant oracle, and a giant pulsating  brain.  And yet, somehow, L'Engle has managed to reach the  &quot;process&quot; button on the cuisinart:  what comes out is an  excellent nutritious whole, not merely mashed leftovers.<br />Admittedly,  even that whole has awkward moments.  The abrupt mentions of God make me  squirm now as much as they did when I was 11, and Mrs. Murray's lab, with  its bunsen burner, is clearly dated, as is some of the dialogue (does  anyone have &quot;dreamboat&quot; eyes anymore?).  The underlying angsts  this book helps to alleviate, however, are not subject to time.  And when  someone throws a lifeline, the drowning sojourner is best advised to catch  hold, and examine the interesting weave of the rope later.	2000-05-30
US	49754789	R1SR800RB7AYP	0425166287	828957941	Perfect Agreement	Books	4	7	7	N	N	Laughing on the Train	I made the mistake of judging this book by its beige/green dull cover of a man working in his garden. So when I pulled it off the shelf, in a hurry to get to the train station, I almost put it back again.  A book about a  grammarian?  And the Shakers?  I wondered when and why I had bought this  white elephant.  Luckily, time was short, and I did not re-shelve it.<br />The  story of Mark Sternum, dismissed from his job for flunking the wrong  student at the wrong time for the right reason, soon had me hiccupping with  laughter.  Yes, there are some insider academic jokes here, but the  dead-pan telling of the tale creates moments of comedy that are  transcendent.  My laughter became unmanageable as Mark, with his mysterious  absent (or is it present?) Shaker-obsessed father, his dying mother, his  sister with her picture-word messages, tries to cope with his life by not  answering the phone.  Soon my laughter became that of the awkward,  snorting, squeaking variety.  People on the train began to stare at me as I  wheezed laughs into my bag of potato chips. But I could not stop.  The  hero's angst demanded that I purge it with my muffled whoops.<br />It's too  true that the section in this book that spirals into Celia the Shaker's  story slows the laughter and seems affected -- not quite believable.   Celia's odd tale out of an era that Michael Downing, the author, doesn't  quite capture, seems out of place here.  But it's worth enduring Celia's  too-solemn Shaker world to excavate the events in Mark's life that drive  his painful and painfully funny tale.  And yes, (one more objection), the  grammar lessons at the end of each chapter do become a bit arch.  But this  book should be read, begs to be read.  After all, when was the last time  you read a grammar lesson and laughed until your nose ran?	2000-05-26
US	49754789	RKAP08S6GCLHF	0375404929	785389269	For the Relief of Unbearable Urges: Stories	Books	5	5	6	N	N	Unbearably Beautiful Reading	At 5am I tapped my husband awake with the binding of *For the Relief of Unbearable Urges* and told him he had to read it.  The idea of keeping even the first story of nine (&quot;The Twenty-seventh Man&quot;) to myself was,  well, unbearable.<br />     The first story is the best.  In &quot;The  Twenty-seventh Man&quot;, 27 Jewish writers are rounded up by Stalin's men  to be executed.  The scene that follows is like a writer's conference held  in a hell: the men, for the most part unaware of their doom, discuss  literature, fate and death between torture sessions.  One, the  twenty-seventh man, the one who seems to be there by mistake, makes up a  story in his head and recites it before they go before the firing squad.   His story gets a good review from its audience.  And then they die.<br />We're  all the twenty-seventh man, of course, eventually slated for death no  matter what our crime (being Jewish writers, being Jewish, or just being),  and while waiting for the time to come, many of us tell stories, although  few stories are as good as these. <br />After the &quot;The Wig&quot;, an  eerie and funny (yes, they are all funny) tale of human hair, allowed me a  space to recover, I was struck down again by &quot;Reb Kringle&quot;.  This  might be called a light tale of an orthodox Jew who works as a department  store Santa Claus.  It is not light.  Rage and despair rose and engulfed me  as it engulfs Reb Itzik when what seems to be yet another greedy brat on  his knee turns out to be the one child whose wish Itzik should be able to,  but cannot, grant.<br />With the exception of the first story, all that these  tales lack are endings as marvelous as the wonders and horrors they  contain.  And if the world of Englander's orthodox Jewish characters seems  distant, if you, for example, do not know ahead of time that orthodox  Jewish women shave their heads and wear wigs, let not your lack of  knowledge act as an impediment.  This world will be that much more wondrous  and strange.  The pain that comes with the wonder, moreover, will be in no  way alleviated -- even if you should want to believe yourself to be the  twenty-seventh man:  the one who, surely, doesn't fit into this category,  the one who has been marked for death solely through clerical error.	2000-05-19
US	49754789	R231W3KMPEIRKJ	0064471047	915528414	The Lion, the Witch, and the Wardrobe	Books	5	13	19	N	N	Don't Ask; Don't Tell	*The Lion, the Witch and the Wardrobe* begins the enchanting series of Narnia books as, in a game of hide and seek, intrepid Lucy stumbles through a wardrobe and into Narnia -- a delightful world of dryads and fauns and  dwarves and animals that talk.  Lucy finds, however, that as things stand,  Narnia is a land of perpetual winter ruled over by an evil witch.  Worse,  even though it's always winter, it's never Christmas (note allegorical  material beginning to rise to the surface).  Lucy must return to her house,  convince her brothers (especially the aptly named Peter) and sister that  Narnia actually exists, and, with the help of Aslan, the great lion, defeat  the witch and bring spring back to the land.  She has her work cut out for  her.<br />As readers, so do many of us.  For in this most delicate and  charming and gemlike of books, C.S. Lewis has planted as heavy-handed an  allegory as anything Edmund Spenser wrote in *The Faerie Queene*.  Lucy, as  her name denotes, brings &quot;light&quot; to Narnia and England.  Aslan is  Christ.  Narnia is the postlapsarian world.  Aslan (Christ) must, according  to the rules of the Emperor-over-the-sea (God), die so that Lucy's brother,  Edmund, (the sinner) can be saved (Saved).  After his death, Aslan comes  back to life (is resurrected) and defeats the witch (temptation/the devil).  Through the spilling of his blood (Blood) all of Narnia is renewed (finds  grace).      If your religious beliefs compell you to point this  not-so-deep meaning out to your own children, then do so, but please don't  spread the word.  When teaching this book in a college-level course on  Children's Literature, I have too many times seen the years of joy this  book has given my students quenched by my Outing Of The Allegory.  This  quenching is nondenominational.<br />What I write now would not bring joy to  C.S. Lewis, but the true miracle of the Narnia series, to this reviewer,  lies in its astonishing ability to survive its own allegory.On the  literal level, these books are marvelous:  they are invigorating, heady,  filled with heroism and magic, great deeds and quests.  They should not be  missed by children of any faith.  My two sons love the series, and,  frankly, as far as the hidden meaning is concerned, I dread the day that  they are finally old enough to ask about it, and I am weak enough to tell.	2000-05-17
US	49754789	R1A2UGH08L7LPX	0316905100	286774375	First Things First	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Delight in Disorder	I began writing this review with great confidence, only to discover that the reasons that this book is a delight and that my hard-cover edition is coming to pieces from endless readings are reasons that are difficult to  convey.  *First Things First* is a picture book of categorized *stuff*.  It is an antidote for parent and child alike to those big books that have  lots and lots (and lots) of words in them under pictures of firehouses,  policemen, parking meters, stores, barns....but you know exactly what I  mean.  *First Things First* orders items the way a child might.  On one  fully opened page, we have &quot;SOME ANIMALS&quot; (all labelled, all with  interesting expressions and stances); on another page are &quot;TWO  COWS&quot;, one red and white, and one purple, and both accompanied by  poems (&quot;the friendly cow all red and white...&quot; Robert Louis  Stevenson); on the next page, children cavort around a maypole with  &quot;COLORED RIBBONS&quot; (each color is named).  The purple cow holds  the purple ribbon.  If your child wants to browse, there are pages of  &quot;LOTS OF INSECTS&quot; or &quot;THREE SHAPES&quot; or  &quot;FLOWERS&quot;.  My favorite page is that of &quot;A GREAT BIG  CAULIFLOWER&quot; (with a child in it), but I'm pretty attached to the  &quot;PEASE Porridge hot&quot; page, too.  Not only are all the bits and  poems and pictures of children and porridge and vegetables and animals fun  to look at, but the book is small and manageable in scope and besides, on  p. 36 all the little peas wear tiny hats.  Someone should bring this back  into print.  And, sorry, I'm not lending out my copy.	2000-05-12
US	49754789	R3IKCLEIM3IF49	0888990960	924120699	Hour of the Frog	Books	4	2	2	N	N	That's One Scary Frog	Every night the little girl can't sleep.  The parents sleep -- even the fish sleeps -- but she stays awake for The Hour of the Frog.  He comes from the swamp and into the house, on the prowl for food.  The girl hears him at  the refrigerator, opening the pickle jar, stuffing his frog face with  strange assortments of edibles.  She hears him climb the stairs towards her  room, for what nefarious purpose is unclear, but the frog's voracious  appetite is hint enough to make a young child nervous.  The illustration of  the frog's ascent, mouth filled to capacity and leaking pickle juice  suggests an unsated hunger.  On the frog moves; he's in her bedroom; the  moment has come...and then the girl stands up and scares him away back to  his swamp.  She lies back in her bed and indulges in dreams of her own  appetite:  breakfast is on her mind, a big breakfast, with maybe some flies  in it.<br />I was enchanted by the text and illustrations of this ghost-story  spoof, and it's almost impossible to convey how witty and amusing this book  is.  *The Hour of the Frog*, however, is more than merely a spoof:  the  illustrations indicate that this little girl does not live in a normal  world.  Everything's a bit off-kilter, a bit strange.  The appetites of  frog and girl are intimidating (who is going to eat whom?).  And we know  that the frog will be back again and again, and she will be awake again and  again.  For me, reading the book was a lovely and fun experience.  I wanted  to read it to my children a lot and make it creepy and funny at the same  time.  Alas, I can only give it four stars here because, frankly, my  children didn't want me to read it to them - more than once.  I'm going to  try it on my four year old when he's older, and *your* four year old may be  as entranced as I was.  Try it on your children; the fit may be just right;  you'll get to keep the book if they don't care for it, and *The Hour of the  Frog* belongs in any serious collection of children's literature.	2000-05-12
US	49754789	R3N1JQQJI56CE	076360092X	667052927	Mrs. Goose's Baby	Books	5	3	3	N	N	When a Goose Loves a Chicken	This book has one of the most perfect opening sentences in the English language:  &quot;One day Mrs. Goose found an egg and made a nest to put it in.&quot;  What better mystery in a children's book than an egg?  We know  that *something* will hatch out of it, but what comes out of found eggs can  be entirely unpredictable.  And what better creature to find the egg than  Mrs. Goose, who sensibly builds it a nest and sets out to protect it. Mrs.  Goose certainly isn't worried about what will emerge from the mystery egg.  Mrs. Goose, a comfortable, loving, sensible sort of mother sits on the egg  and dreams of a little goose swimming behind her. The egg hatches, Mrs.  Goose sees her not-very-goose-like baby, and two pink hearts surround her  heart-felt &quot;Honk.&quot;  All Mrs. Goose ever says is &quot;Honk&quot;,  but she says it expressively, whether she is calling her child for a swim  (the chick doesn't like water), or chasing off a dog from her baby, or  watching her baby eat grain instead of grass.  Voake's illustrations leave  us in no doubt about these nuanced honks.  Only once does Mrs. Goose look  at her baby closely, but it is with no concern, and it is the narrator (not  Mrs. Goose) who notes that the baby is not much like the mother.  At night  Mrs. Goose and her baby curl up together lovingly.  During the day,  children watch them walk together lovingly.  And the narrator finally tells  us what we already know -- &quot;Mrs. Goose's baby was a CHICKEN!&quot;  We  don't need to be told that the differences between them don't matter a whit  to Mrs. Goose.  Nor does the grownup reader need to be told that this is a  book about adopted children.  The text, illustrations, and love in this  book, however, transcend the genre of book-for-adopted-kids.  All children  worry about being different from their parents and about whether or not  their parents will love them in spite of these differences.  *Mrs. Goose's  Baby* belongs on everyone's shelf -- it has as much heart as any book I've  read.	2000-05-12
US	49754789	R11X2JA5ROXVON	0674803906	983359021	Shakespeare and the Hazards of Ambition	Books	5	3	3	N	N	C-sections, Prodigal sons, Ambition:  Read This Book	With his sword, Macbeth hacks a passage through the enemy and unseams the traitor Macdonwald from the nave to the chops.  He emerges from the battle like a man newborn (but into what?) and gets a new title:  Thane of Cawdor.  In *Coriolanus* Caius Martius runs through the gates (&quot;gates&quot;  are a familiar Renaissance term for female genitalia) of Corioles, emerges  very bloody and very triumphant and gets a new name:  Coriolanus.  Thus,  goes Watson's provocative and compelling argument, both men cut themselves  off from family names and through the violent action reminiscent of a  self-inflicted C-section (remember Macbeth's hacking away at that fleshly  passage) make themselves anew.  Problems follow.  Not merely because these  men are ambitious, but because, as endless numbers of Elizabethan prodigal  son tales point out (Watson has really done his research), you just can't  get away from family.  You're linked whether or not you like it, and, for  that matter, whether or not you're a tragic hero or a college student who  has to go home for Thanksgiving.  Watson deals with other plays, but his  treatment of these is most compelling and far more subtle than I can  indicate here. This book won a prize when it came out:  best book produced  by Harvard University Press.  The prize is well-deserved.  Having read  *Shakespeare and the Hazards of Ambition*, I have never been able to teach  these plays in the same way again.  This book almost lets the reader see  too much -- it gives me the shivers.  And it belongs on every serious  scholar's shelf.	2000-04-24
US	49754789	RY5SBNRGCT6UE	0252063627	330195639	Broken Nuptials in Shakespeare's Plays (Manufacturing Res. and Technology; 17)	Books	4	6	7	N	N	Useful and Sturdy Scholarship	This book seems somewhat dated, but that may be because it has inspired so much research on the importance of marriage and ceremony that the ideas appear familiar.  One easily forgets that this is the book that opened the way to new approaches to Shakespeare's plays.  When my students want to  write about the importance of ceremony or about women or about marriage in  Shakespeare's plays, I first send them to *Broken Nuptials*.  It's nicely  written with no twisted inane jargon to trip up even a novice reader.  Most  readers, in fact, may end the book thinking &quot;I knew that!&quot;  (although they probably didn't know it when they started the book).  The  insights appear to be so self-evident (and so colored by work done after  the book's publication) that I believe readers and scholars, while  recognizing the book's importance, have underrated its quality.  This book  is an excellent tool that stands the test of time.	2000-04-24
US	49754789	R1UH5MS6M5S26I	0316963097	924120699	Hour of the Frog	Books	4	0	0	N	N	That's One Scary Frog	Every night the little girl can't sleep.  The parents sleep -- even the fish sleep -- but she stays awake for The Hour of the Frog.  He comes from the swamp and into the house, on the prowl for food.  The girl hears him at  the refrigerator, opening the pickle jar, stuffing his frog face with  strange assortments of edibles.  She hears him climb the stairs towards her  room, for what nefarious purpose is unclear, but the frog's voracious  appetite is hint enough, and the illustration of his ascent, mouth filled  to capacity and leaking pickle juice, suggests an unsated hunger.  On the  frog moves; he's in her bedroom; the moment has come...and then the girl  stands up and scares him away back to his swamp.  She lies back in her bed  and indulges in dreams of her own appetite:  breakfast is on her mind, a  big breakfast, with maybe some flies in it.          I was enchanted by the  text and illustrations of this ghost-story spoof, and it's almost  impossible to convey how witty and funny this book is.  *The Hour of the  Frog*, however,  is more than merely a spoof; the illustrations indicate  that this little girl does not live in a normal world; everything's a  little off-kilter -- a bit strange.  The appetites of frog and girl are  intimidating (who is going to eat whom?).  And we know that the frog will  be back again and again, and she will be awake again and again.     For me,  this was perfect; I wanted to read it to my children a lot and make it  creepy and funny at the same time.  Alas, I can  only give it four stars  here because, frankly, my children didn't want me to read it to them --  more than once. I'm going to try it on my four year old when he's older,  and *your* 4 year old may be as entranced as I was.  Try it on your  children; the fit may be just right, you'll get to keep the book if they  don't care for it, and *The Hour of the Frog* belongs in any serious  collection of children's literature.	2000-04-18
US	49754789	R2MH2WYSC5VDKP	0030305047	692780834	Zoology	Books	5	35	37	N	N	When Science Textbooks Aren't Boring	O.K., *Zoology* is a textbook.  Most of us have had to plow through a honker monster science textbook at one time or another, and usually the sight of us doing so is pretty ugly.  Not so with *Zoology*.  I picked up  this book because of the catchy cover, and I started reading.  And I kept  reading.  Not cover-to-cover, as with a novel, but with increasing  interest.  First of all, because this is a book that is beautifully  written; the authors care about prose and about making material accessible.   Secondly, I was hooked by the evolution section:  this book does not mess  around and go all tippy-toes with Darwin in order to placate Creationists.   Despite the fact that publishers, to avoid controversy, have cut back on  textbooks with evolution sections, this book addresses evolution squarely  and is (thankfully) devoid of the grossly wimpy position that  everyone-gets-an-equal-viewpoint-no-matter-how-ignorant-they-are-about-evolution.   *Zoology* gives it to you straight.  Not only that, it's the only textbook  I know of that has glimmers of the writers' personalities shining through.   Even if you aren't taking a science course, the book is well worth dipping  into for clear information on a wealth of Zoological topics.  The  illustrations are magnificent and helpful at the same time.  If you want a  great science text to have around the house, this is probably the one for  you.  Browse, look at pictures, admire the writing, and if you have this  book assigned for a class, consider yourself lucky.	2000-04-17
US	49754789	R2HJ9ZRENJNVAE	0374332657	159975375	Holes (Newberry Medal Book)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Digging Their Graves:  The Brilliance of *Holes*	Stanley Yelnats' palindromic name gives away the complexity not only of the plot line but of the emotional pitch of this book.  Stanley, wrongly accused, is sent to Camp Green Lake, which is neither a camp, green, nor a  lake.  It's a juvenile detention area located on some of the most hostile  terrain imaginable, and, out in the hot sun, facing the double peril of  rattlesnakes and deadly spotted lizards, the detainees are forced to dig  holes; they dig holes (seemingly) for no reason.  They dig holes five feet  wide and five feet deep.  Until we know what those pits are really for (and  even after), the image of the 5' by 5' holes could not be more evocative:  these children are digging child-sized graves.  When Zero runs away and  Stanley knows he just can't leave Zero out in the desert, the book becomes  agonizing in its exploration of heroic acts and their possibly dreadful  consequences.  (Don't worry:  it all works out and the book contains a fair  bit of humor).      I hesitated about letting my 9 year old read *Holes*.   I thought the material was too strong -- he's a pretty sensitive reader.   But I gave it to him, and he read it on his own, privately, as if he wanted  it to be just his.  When asked, he would say &quot;I like it fine&quot;, in  that 9 year old dead-pan tone.  But many times I find it lying on his bed,  or I find him re-reading parts; I don't know what the book means to him,  but I know it means something important  -- and that's just fine.	2000-04-11
