US	49769616	RZMT7K06FF3ZO	0060501170	876613013	I'll Take You There: A Novel	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Of Love and Truth	This is a book about love: The narrator tells us about her attempts to belong. She wants to belong to the sorority, be one of those smooth, lovable girls - but all too soon she realizes that this cannot be: she's different. Maybe this feeling of being different from the \\"normal\\" people around her attracts her to the graduate student Vernor, although she falls in love with his clever voice before she sees his African American face. Vernor hates himself; he is drawn to philosophy because it seems to be a spiritual realm untainted with self; so it is no wonder that he cannot accept the narrator's love. The narrator's family seems to be devoid of love. Her mother died shortly after the narrator was born, who finds herself accused of being the one to blame for her mother's death. Her father, brothers, grandparents are taciturn, elusive strangers; and yet... This powerful novel shows how you create yourself, trying to be who you want to be; at the same time it proves that there are basics - roots? - from which you cannot escape. <br />   Oates is a master at evoking physical and spiritual reality. The reader can smell the nightmare of the sorority house; the physical encounters with Vernor are so shocking because they are so real. <BR>   Maybe some readers' judgments are clouded by their expectations which come from reading other novels by Joyce Carol Oates. This is the first novel by her I have read, and I am deeply impressed by her mastery of the English language, by the beautiful rhythms and vivd descriptions which reminded me of Woolf and Mansfield.	2003-02-15
US	49769616	R33DS5QCGTDQGX	0312421273	647099960	The Corrections: A Novel	Books	4	1	4	N	N	A family you won't forget	It is easy to see why this book was chosen by Oprah: Above all, it's a heart-wrenching family saga, and many readers will find something to identify with. The words I remembered from reading reviews - Parkinson's, Lithuania, biotech - had not led me to expect the exciting read that \\"The Corrections\\" proved to be. You have to be a true master to base a novel of suspense on the question whether all three grown-up children will make it to the family Christmas celebrations - Franzen pulls it off spectacularly. <BR>  \\"The Corrections\\" portrays a culture which has undergone incredible changes in just a few decades. Gary, Chip and Denise want to lead their lives as corrections of their fathers puritanical, depressed life, in which he did not allow himself to enjoy anything other than work. In spite of what other readers say, this book ends on a far more optimistic note than, say, Thomas Mann's \\"Buddenbrooks\\", to which it has been compared. This is not \\"The Decline of a Family\\". - The portrait of Gary, the materialist successful banker, seemed to me the most striking one. Isn't the final one of his wife's ten commandments the unacknowledged motto of our materialist advertising culture: \\"There's absolutely nothing useful about suffering.\\" Here Franzen's satire hits home.<BR>   There are some parts of the book, however, in which Franzen tries to show off how clever and modernist he is - and which I found somewhat off-putting (the surrealism of \\"At Sea\\", the long stretches of Curly Eberle's baloney about his biotech inventions). Even worse, Franzen was simply lazy when he chose to portray Lithuania as a country torn apart by civil unrest and economic disaster; there is a frighteningly large number of countries which are exactly like the one he discribes, so why not bother to pick one of these? As a European, I can't help seeing in this an example of wilful American ignorance of what's going on in the rest of the world...<BR>   Of course I had stopped being angry with the booklong before I reached the final pages. This is a book about what life is about. I find it hard to imagine a reader who will not be moved by the final chapter - this is the life we must all face.	2002-10-12
US	49769616	R1DTO0U349P1MM	0156904365	322831088	Till We Have Faces: A Myth Retold	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Lewis'  most accomplished work of fiction	&quot;Till We Have Faces&quot; lacks some of the traits which make us love Lewis' other works - it's un-English, un-donnish, it lacks his quirky sense of humour, it is not edifiying; yet there are a kind of coherence, a unity of tone and majestic pathos which make the novel impressive in a unique way. Above all, Lewis handles myth - the subtitle is &quot;A Myth retold&quot; - with a respect of which he alone among 20th century writers seems to be capable. There is no demythologizing, and yet the reader understands the implications, the power, and the tragedy of the myth of Psyche and Cupid in a completely new way.<br />The story is told by Orual, Psyche's older sister; she is such an impressive and strong female character than one is surprised an utterly conservative man like Lewis could have created her. She rebels against the gods and the people who won't leave her beloved beautiful sister Psyche alone. - Telling more about what happens might spoil the reader's enjoyment of the book, so I won't do it. - Read this book and get to know a C.S. Lewis you have not met before; but above all you will enjoy a supremely crafted work of fiction.	2002-10-12
US	49769616	R278HCIP9C6LH4	0393028135	178267094	C.S. Lewis: A Biography	Books	5	17	22	N	N	A fascinating read	Some of the reviews here are quite disturbing. Lewis in the dock? Filth? - Those people must be talking about a different book, surely. Wilson clearly admires Lewis and loves and knows his works. Most of the claims attributed to his biography by other reviewers are not actually made in the book. It seems to me that many people find it hard to accept that Lewis's lifestyle differed from the one accepted among American Evangelicals... Wilson never accuses Lewis of not being politically correct, on the contrary, he points to the times he lived in to make us understand. It's a pity many fans of Lewis will be deterred from reading this book by some of the other reviews here; this is a fair and compassionate biography which helps the reader understand Lewis and his world; above all, however, it is excellently written, and I found it hard to put it down once I had got started.	2002-09-08
US	49769616	RZI6F0B7B5Y7D	1582430152	772203017	Heat and Dust	Books	4	2	2	N	N	India and Empire	It is incredible what Ruth Prawer Jhabvala manages to do in well under 200 pages: Two women's lives, two periods in Indian history are the material for a fascinating tale about living in a foreign country. Olivia is married to a dutiful Raj official, but fascinated by a local prince. Fifty years later another woman travels to India, a descendent of Olivia's neighbours; she tries to find out what happened to Olivia, but she cannot do that as a distant observer. Just like Olivia, her life is beginning to become part of the Indian lives going on around her...<br />   There is much to learn from this book: about love, about India, what it means to live in a foreign country. It is a great book, but somehow - compared to other books by the brilliant Ruth Prawer Jhabvala - there was a little bit too much didacticism in it for my taste: It seemed to me that the narrators were always trying to explain India to the reader. Which is, in a way, a good thing, isn't it?	2002-03-26
US	49769616	RX2BOJNJBDIKD	0198600240	814438657	The Oxford Companion to Christian Thought (Oxford Companions)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Library of Christian Thought	There is no denying that the Oxford Companion to Christian Thought is a very expensive book, but as it is something like an entire library in one book, it sure is worth its price.<br />  You can have a look at the table of contents to see what you can find in the Companion. The essays are written by brilliant and committed theologians, there isn't even a whiff of the dead prose of encycolpedias. <br />   The stress is on contemporary theology, but the excerpts which are accessible here show you that the history of Christian thought is  well represented too. <br />   Christianity is more than just your local church and your local preacher's views. This book gives you an idea what has been going on all around the world in the past 2000 years. There is much to learn!	2002-03-26
US	49769616	R1OFWBO2OS0107	1842124552	190943084	Collected Poems 1945-1990 (Phoenix Press)	Books	5	30	30	N	N	Wales and Christianity	Welshman R.S. Thomas is the author of some of the most memorable religious poetry of the century. As a clergyman in rural Wales Thomas had to face a country and a church in decline; this inspired poetry of an austere beauty. The poem &quot;The Bright Field&quot; seems to me to capture the essence of Thomas' poetry:<br />  &quot;I have seen the sun break through / to illuminate a small field / for a while, and gone my way / and forgotten it. But that was the pearl / of great price, the one field that had / the treasure in it. I realize now / that I must give all that I have / to possess it. Life is not hurrying // on to a receding future, nor hankering after / an imagined past. It is the turning / aside like Moses to the miracle / of the burning bush, to a brightness / that seemed as transitory as your youth / once, but is the eternity that awaits you.&quot;	2002-03-16
US	49769616	RBT90RA72SIAO	0140446303	425034105	Brigitta and Other Tales (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Different kind of love story	&quot;Brigitta&quot; was the first story by Stifter I ever read, and I am sure it will always be one of my favourite stories. All of Stifter's stories are about how to live. Brigitta is the tale of a woman who finds a life of her own after her husband betrayed her and she threw him out. <BR>   Stifter is different from any other writer of the 19th century. His main interest is not in dramatic events but the everyday. Ordinary lives fill him with wonder and admiration. He will make you look at life in a different way.	2002-03-16
US	49769616	R20SCE179ZO8EC	0226734889	167615128	On the Psychotheology of Everyday Life: Reflections on Freud and Rosenzweig	Books	4	27	30	N	N	Monotheism and the Other	The aim of his book is a fascinating one: Recently many historians, such as Regina Schwartz or Jan Assmann claimed that monotheism was always linked to intolerance - in contrast to the polytheism it had replaced. Santner argues that, on the contrary, the Judeo-Christian legacy opens up a unique way of seeing and accepting the other as he or she really is. <br />   The hero of this book is Franz Rosenzweig, a German-Jewish philosopher (1886-1929) who is best remembered for his enigmatic opus magnum &quot;The Star of Redemption&quot;, which outlined a philosophy founded in Judaism, but which Rosenzweig refused to call religious. I doubt that anyone has ever claimed to have fully understood &quot;The Star of Redemption&quot;; Santner offers one way of coming to grips with this great work: He offers a Freudian reading of Rosenzweig and a Rosenzweigian reading of Freud, or he at least claims he does. <br />  Rosenzweig refused the brilliant career of a conventional university professor of philosophy; he was looking for a different kind of rootedness, which he finally found in the Judaism he had been born into but had so far neglected: There an &quot;ancient treasure chest whose existence he had never forgotten but which he had never fully explored was found to contain his most personal possessions, things inherited, not borrowed.&quot; He feels that now he does no longer step outside the flow of life, as he believes academic philosophy does, but can see things in their particularity and singleness even in their &quot;everyday life&quot;.<br />  Both Rosenzweig and Freud know that man can never know everything about himself; we feel and &quot;excess of demand&quot;, but we cannot really explain why this is so and how it works - even with the help of Psychoanalysis. A real &quot;encounter&quot; with the other must be aware of this &quot;surplus&quot;; the other can only be accepted as a B=B, any attempt at categorizing in the manner of B=A will always be off the mark:&quot;To put it most simply, the Other to whom I am answerable has an unconscious, is the bearer of an irreducible and internal otherness, a locus of animation that belongs to no form of life.&quot; This, according to Santner, creates the perspective of an &quot;Ethics of Singularity&quot;.<br />  Santners thesis culminates in the chapter &quot;Responsiblity beyond the Superego&quot;. Rosenzweig feels that the capacity to say &quot;I&quot; &quot;only becomes manifest (...) in and through the response to the passionate call of one's proper name&quot;. In my opinion there can be no doubt about it that for Rosenzweig this call is God's call, which in turn enables us to see others in a kind of &quot;revelatory love&quot; not as representatives of some kind of universal but as individuals. <br />   In contrast to Martin Buber's vision of encounter as a meeting of perfect understanding, however, here the &quot;paradox of revelatory love (...) is, thus that in some sense it reveals nothing.&quot; <br />   This is exciting stuff, but I somehow feel the book lacks some kind of conclusion. Instead, Santner offers a discussion of the German poet Hölderlin, which may be due to the fact that Santner has worked extensively on Hölderlin.<br />   My main qualm about this challenging book, however, is that in many parts it is very hard to read because of its somewhat clumsy language. Both Rosenzweig and Freud are masters of the German language, their style is always clear, Rosenzweig's often particularly elegant (which does not mean he is easy to understand). In contrast to them Santner is at least partly infected by a kind of postmodern academic sociolect which makes him write sentences like the following: <BR>&quot;The libidinal component of one's symbolic identity must be thought of as being &quot;ibidinal&quot; too: a largely unconscious citation of the authority guaranteeing one's rightful enjoyment of the predicates proper to it.&quot; If you think this is perfectly normal English you will enjoy the book even more than I did.	2001-12-04
US	49769616	R1I8757SLB7VK6	0553213415	73897934	Madame Bovary (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	More fun than you expect	&quot;Madame Bovary&quot; is of course THE classic novel of adultery (together with &quot;Anna Karenina&quot;), and it is also on of the most-respected representatives of 19th-century realism; that might be enough to deter many readers, which is a pity, because &quot;Madame Bovary&quot;, is, above all, an excellent read.<br />  As the subtitle &quot;Scences from provincial life&quot; suggests, the novel is a brilliant satire of small town life. In contrast to Dickens or Thackerey, however, Flaubert's sense of humour is excessively grim and merciless. His insight does not lead him to excuse any of the weaknesses of his protagonists.<br />  Mr Bovary is a decent chap, a doctor of mediocre talent and intelligence. A kind of misunderstanding leads the daughter of one of his patients to marry him. All to soon, alas, she recognizes that ther romantic ambitions will not be fulfilled. Her two affairs are presented as a story of moral decay. In the end her trusting and doting husband still has not found out what is going on, but unfortunately Madame has ruined the family financially.<br />  The story in itself is not exciting, but Flaubert is a master at depicting the expressions of Madame's ambitions and Monsieurs naivety - and the ruthless machinations of the pharmacist who claims to be working for progress in the spirit of Voltaire. It will take you some time to recover from facing up to this dark vision of humankind, but Flaubert's precision, black humour and masterful storytelling make reading this book a very entertaining experience!	2001-12-04
US	49769616	RCJI0PSG0MQZA	0140447660	199203596	Effi Briest (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Classic tale of adultery	&quot;Effi Briest&quot; is not just a German version of Emma Bovary or Anna Karenina - it is quite unique in its depiction of a not untypical 19th century marriage. At the age of 17 the impetuous Effi Briest is married to a man 21 years her senior. He is decent enough in his treatment of her, but for Effi being married is a horrible experience, mostly because her husband's job forced her to move to the small town of Kessin where hardly anybody is fit to become her friend.<br />  What always strikes me about Fontane is the fairness and the understandig he shows towards his characters. &quot;Effi Briest&quot; is Fontane's psychological insight at his best. None of characters is gloryfied, none vilified. You can identify with Effi and understand what drives her into the arms of another man; but you can also see that her husband simply doesn't understand what he is doing to Effi; actually he's doing his best to make her happy. <br />  When the attractive, ageing womanizer Major Crampas moves into town, Effi pities him at first. Later, her attitude changes, but Fontane does not give any details of what's going on between the two. He shows what made it happen - and how Effi and her husband will deal with it. - It is a very entertaining read, not least because of Fontane's excellent low-key sense of humour.	2001-11-16
US	49769616	R1VN490FO707U7	1901285278	8836000	Rock Crystal (Jewel)	Books	5	14	14	N	N	Breathtaking!	This is one of the most fascinating books I have ever read. The story is simple: A boy and a girl get lost in the mountains on their way home; it's Christmas Eve, and the two are somewhere in the Alps. What makes the books so unique is the way in which the children's ordeal is described: They are moving through a landscape that is made almost abstract by the snow; this is pure poetry! - Stifter is a forgotten genius of 19th century European literature; I'm glad that his touching Christmas Tale - and ideal Christmas present, by the way - is now available in this beautiful edition!	2001-11-16
US	49769616	R194L1ZUTMUS8K	014006110X	257388093	Waiting for the Barbarians: A Novel	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Campaign against terrorism	This is a brilliant book - and I wish all Western politicians had read it before starting their campaign against terrorism; for the novel can be read as the story of one such campaign. The enemy, the barbarians, the terrorists, remains elusive. The Secret Service torture natives, people who still talk to members of the enemy tribes are vilified, an expeditionary force is beaten not by the enemy but by the merciless mountain deserts were the barbarians live. All of this creates a background of panic in the border town where the story is set. People start running away, the town is ruled by pillaging military - who finally flee as well. In the end the town is ruined, most probably without any direct intervention of enemy forces. Coetzee has unmasked the self-destructiveness of war.	2001-10-31
US	49769616	R3BZXTQEFQZQIE	0375411143	930101336	The Biographer's Tale	Books	3	3	4	N	N	Byatt-fans beware!	How come A.S. Byatt does what she is best at - and yet this novel fails to take off? Once more she tries to make a story of literary criticism and detective work about writers. This time, however, there are quite simply too many documents and not enough to connect them. Phineas Nanson tries to write a biography about a rather obscure biographer; all he finds about him are the results of the biographer's research into other peoples' lives; these are quoted at length. - Somehow it all feels like a rather lame re-run of the brilliant &quot;Possession&quot;. Still, it's not a waste of time. Byatt's style is as elegant as ever, there are good ideas, there are lively chapters. The brilliant satirical first chapter is enough to make the book worth buying.	2001-10-30
US	49769616	RUNR0BHD89T9I	0880640170	218738905	Tales of a Long Night: A Novel (English and German Edition)	Books	4	9	9	N	N	Healing Powers of Storytelling?	People who read Doblin must be ready for surprises. This German writer(1878-1957), who was a contemporary of Thomas Mann and Franz Kafka, was a tireless experimenter who never did anything twice. He is best known for &quot;Berlin Alexanderplatz&quot; (1929), his modernist novel about big city life which is strongly influenced by Joyce's stream of consciousness techniques. &quot;Tales of a Long Night&quot; is Döblin's last novel and it was written in the year after the end of the Second World War. <br />Coming to terms with the war seems to be the where the novel starts. Edward Allison, a young English soldier, is wounded in a kamikaze attack on his battleship. He loses a leg and is taken to a mental hospital after his return to England. After his mother has succeeded in getting him back to the family home, Edward haunts the house like a ghost: He does not want to accept what happened, he wants to know who is responsible for the war. Finally his father, a famous writer, decides that it will be best to gather some friends around Edward and himself and to try to get closer to the truth by telling stories. <br />Some people have called this book a collection of novellas, but it is much more than that. The stories that are told reveal people's ideas of themselves and of the Allison family. The emphasis shifts more and more to an analysis of the dark secrets of Edwards family, he feels more and more like Hamlet who must unravel what has gone wrong... There are lots of twists and turns, however, before the story can come to an end which is also a beginning.<br />Döblin converted to Cahtolicism in 1940, and it shows in the moood of this novel, which wants to show where the world has gone wrong. But there are no easy answers, nor is there a big reconciliation at the end. This is a very convincing and beautiful book.	2001-07-15
US	49769616	R3NEEFIQ82DUSD	0805059989	829209096	Housebroken: Three Novellas	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Modern love - the dog's eye view	Yael Hedaya is a brilliant new writer from Israel; her stories depict modern life from unusual and fresh perspectives. Telling a love story between a man and a woman from the point of view of their dog may sound like a strange idea, but Yael Hedaya takes it completely seriously  in her novella &quot;Housebroken&quot; and creates an utterly touching tale. <br />  The man and the woman (their names are never mentioned) would just have gone home to their separate beds after a nice evening out if it had not been for the stray dog they found in the street. The woman takes both the dog and the man up to her flat; both visitors end up living with her. The lovers' treatment of the dog is like a barometer of their love; Hedaya makes brilliantly clear how carelessly people usually go about the difficult business of loving each other. <br />   There is no sentimentality whatsoever about Hedaya's storytelling. Both the characters and her way of describing them and their behaviour are utterly contemporary. There are two more novellas in the book, which are equally fascinating. Yael Hedaya is a real find. I found her characters unforgettable - it somehow feels as if I really knew these people...	2001-06-20
US	49769616	R2VGDVRPFD2OPO	0312254997	934580598	The Ground Beneath Her Feet: A Novel	Books	3	0	0	N	N	Good book, boring heroine	Maybe I am just too old to be infatuated by the world of Rock'n'Roll. Or too young? I am only half Mick Jagger's age after all...But let's get to the point: &quot;The Ground Beneath Her Feet&quot; is a great book as long as its heroine Vina Apsara is not on stage. Maybe that is not Rushdie's fault, maybe Rock stars have to be such boring loudmouths; anyway, the charisma she is proclaimed to have did not come across to me. Are we really supposed to be interested in a rock band's quarrels with its record company over money? There's a whole chapter about it in the book. - What makes the narrator and billions of peope love Vina is her voice and her body. This is a novel, not a rock video, so we readers only get what Vina does and says offstage, none of which is any too appealing. ( Do we really want to know what Madonna is like at home? ) <br /> It's not a bad book, mind you. There are loads of unforgettable episodes. Rai, the photographer who narrates the story is a very interesting character who has quite a lot to say. - But when Rushdie writes about rock stars he merely confirms our assumption that they are all like spoiled children...	2001-06-10
US	49769616	R1UBB726VQ60ON	0826402658	953902301	Poetry & Prose	Books	5	30	32	N	N	The last romantic	Heinrich Heine is one of the most lovable writers in European literature. A German of Jewish origin who lived from 1797 to 1856, he regarded himself as the last romantic writer. That shows in his poetry: Very often they begin like usual romantic poems, describing a woman watching the sunset by the seaside for example; but then Heine comes up with a bitterly ironic twist, telling the said lady not to worry as there is nothing unusual about the sunset, the sun always disappears over there and comes back from the other side... Heine is passionately in love with romanticism, Germany and Judaism, but that doesn't keep him from seeing the objects of his love as they really are, he manages to be enchanted by illusion and disillusioned at the same time. That's what makes him such fun to read. His work is somewhat uneven (so it's best to start with a selection like this one), but I always felt that he is the kind of person I would love to be my friend. Heine is never boring. - Apart from that he is second only to Goethe among the best of German poets.	2001-06-10
US	49769616	R3D3V6O6TZUQKG	0375403957	916255888	The Love of a Good Woman	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Authenticity and Freedom	We all know that there are quite a lot of people who believe that Alice Munro is one of the greatest short story writers alive, and I could not agree with them more. But let me say what I particularly like about Alice Munro, what distinguishes her from other great writers.<br />  First of all, there is a unique impression of authenticity. There are certain conventions in fiction about what is regarded as important or interesting; Alice Munro ignores them. She knows that tiny incidents can be the defining ones. She knows that spending a weekend with one's own daughter can be an unbearable challange which almost drives you mad. These stories do not gloss over the mundane aspects of life we have to struggle with most.<br />  Second, Alice Munro's stories believe in human dignity and choice. Hers is a moral universe. It's not just the title story which shows us a person making a choice. We tend to just let things happen to us and pretend we cannot do anything about them; these stories show that sometimes we can (but they do not deny that very often we cannot). There is also a great story, &quot;Jakarta&quot;, which implies that such choices are not valid forever; it's not enough to decide against betraying your husband today. The decision may feel momentous, but if you decide otherwise tomorrow it doesn't matter all that much. The problem is, however, and the story shows that too, that when you take those decisions you are very often incapable of feeling their impact. <br />  Read these stories! This is a book for grown-ups. It will help you understand the world.	2001-06-10
US	49769616	R1JBZM5Z9XAZPP	1582430349	880914803	East Into Upper East: Plain Tales from New York and New Delhi	Books	5	6	6	N	N	Of love and time	I hesitate to write about this extremely rich and powerful collection of stories, because my review cannot do justice to the book, but the other review on this page must not remain the only one. Let's get it right from the start: THIS IS A GREAT BOOK! The author of these stories obviously knows what love is and can convey it in all its horror and its glory. However, these are plain tales not only in that they are told in a completely unpretentious way; Ruth Prawer Jhabvala likes to tell stories which are not outwardly spectacular; she hardly ever mentions the word &quot;love&quot; - maybe the love she describes feels too contorted to call itself love, and yet it is a lot closer to true love than what we know from usual love stories. <br />   These narratives manage to tell complete life stories, they show that time always brings pain to people who love: There is the successful Indian businessman who sees his beloved youngest brother turn into a killer; there is the New York real estate agent who never admits that she is in love with her strange flatmate who almost ruins her life; one of my favourites is the young woman in &quot;A Summer by the Sea&quot; whose highly ambiguous -unfulfilled?- marriage nobody understands. Most of the characters in these stories would be regarded as failures by most people, and most of them would themselves agree that they are. They are not even happy. Yet they cannot help being what they are. This is a beautiful book and a wise one. Read it!!	2001-01-23
US	49769616	RDK78PLJMU6QO	0002712245	516111794	The Opposing Shore	Books	5	8	9	N	N	Majestic in scope and form	Even in translation you can feel the lyrical intensity and beauty of this novel which creates an atmosphere of tension which no reader will forget easily: Aldo, a young nobleman, has had enough of the decadence of his native Vezzano, a fictitious republic modeled on Venice. He has himself posted to a navy base which was once built to defend Vezzano against Farghestan. The two powers are still officially at war, but nothing has actually happened for 300 years. Now, however, there is a growing tension, not just inside Aldo, who dreams of the unknown Farghestan. People in Vezzano seem to be tired of its eternal stability, they long for action...<br />   Most of the novel's plot takes place near the old navy base, which is surrounded by a desert landscape which is described with mesmerizing intensity. Little incidents are building up towards an explosion which is only hinted at in the book. People waiting for something to happen in a more and more uncanny slience - that may remind the reader of the fact that the book was written before and during World War II. The decadence longing for action, danger and change, however, seems to me reminiscent of World War I. This is not a book of easy historical analogy. It is a unique work of art which stands completely on its own.	2001-01-11
US	49769616	R2B755XYY5Q4D0	0375407707	185430326	The Elementary Particles	Books	3	20	21	N	N	An overrated must	Michel Houllebecqs books are bundles of extremely confused emotions. The one recurring voice is the one of the lonely young man who is obsessed with sex - but usually can't manage to get a girl. In The Elementary Particles he is called Bruno, and his quest for the ultimate sexual kick makes up most of the book's narration. His half brother Michel is unable to enjoy sex or to feel love. He is a biologist who manages to lay the foundations of a new race of feminine creatures who are produced in laboratories and end up replacing the flawed humanity. (Actually this last bit is the one that shocked readers in Europe.)<br />      Houellebecq offers a disgusted and polemic view of our civilisation. Much of the time he seems to project his disgust with himself into the whole world. The voice of his books is the one of a hopeless romantic who adores motherly love - but who always ends up masturbating. He is obsessed with sex, he is appalled by this obsession - and consequently dreams up a world without any sex at all. It sounds a bit adolescent, doesn't it? Houellebecq is excellent at portraying the depressing details of loneliness and desolation, but as a thinker and a novelist he is so far below even Camus that I couldn't help feeling depressed at the intellectual level to which the most intellectually precise literature of the world has sunk. <br />In spite of all this, I do not think that he can be dismissed as easily as that. At least he does try to think about questions which most people dare not even raise. In Europe you cannot go to a party without ending up discussing Houellebecq - and it is good to have him point out the loose ends of our culture which might end up strangling it.	2001-01-03
US	49769616	R36OP1EEH069QB	0300080700	926316745	My German Question: Growing Up in Nazi Berlin	Books	5	23	23	N	N	A very personal view of Nazi Berlin	Some readers were disappointed with this book, because it does not explain why and what happened to Jews in Nazi Germany; what it does is give a highly personal account of Gay's &quot;growing up in Nazi Berlin&quot;. At first the normalcy of the family described here may seem disappointing, but this changes when the Nazis declare a family of fervent atheists to be Jews. Gay's book explains how he survived psychically in a country which said he was worthless; and he points out what kept his family from leaving before 1939. The answers to those two questions are important contributions to our understanding of Nazi Germany.<br />Supporting the local Berlin football team is more than just that when it is one of the very few means of belonging, of not being singled out. And watching the 1936 Olympics is different when all you hope for is that it will prove that Aryans are not as superior as they keep telling you every day. <br />I feel grateful for this book. Peter Gay came to hate the Germans who would have killed him if his father had not managed to get the family out of Germany; this memoir, however, by telling us who and what helped him survive, also tells us what was once beautiful about Germany.	2001-01-03
US	49769616	RH2K31NZMMLTT	0810111160	421059805	The Tango Player (Writings from an Unbound Europe)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	&quot;Disgrace&quot; in Communist East Germany	Why should one read books about a political system that is dead and gone? The answer is, of course, that it is not so dead and gone after all. Communism may have collapsed as a political force, but the countries of eastern Europa are still full of the people it has created. People who have just been released from prison are like an ownerless dog, Hein's narrator says, constantly looking for a new master to caress and beat them. Maybe that is how quite a lot of people feel after the Iron Curtain has come down...         Peter Dallow has just been released from prison in the East Germany of 1968; he had played the piano in a political cabaret, and a tango about the ageing ruler of the country had so infuriated the authorities that all members of the group are sentenced to spend two years in prison. Dallow still feels he was innocent, because he wasn't even a member, he had just stepped in for the man who usually played the piano. Hein's book is about the months after Dallow's release from prison.<br />   The mood is similar to the one in Coetzee's &quot;Disgrace&quot;: Dallow used to be a lecturer at Leipzig university, and his attitude towards his students seems to have been one of contempt and cynicism. Now he is in a state of disgrace, people feel uneasy in his presence and want to get rid of him. The Communist state, however, will not let go of him: The authorities, the secret service, the police, are annoyed that Dallow does not want to live on as if nothing had happened. Nobody could escape the system, no matter how hard he or she tried. Actually they keep trying to force Dallow to return to his post at the university. Maybe people like him are even more useful for a dictatorship than those who never got into trouble: Dallow is broken and cynical, he will never resist the government again; in contrast to practically all the people around him he is completely indifferent towards the hope for reform embodied in the Prague Spring. <br />   Dallow's perspective offers a shocking picture of the state of human relationships in his country: Here too cynicism abounds. Love is only mentioned once - as an impossible dream. Sex is regarded as a purely physical need (&quot;I feel like having sex with you.&quot;), and young girls gladly trade it for a place to spend the night. People leave each other just like that. Most characters seem to be scarred after lost battles. This, of course, is Dallow's perspective, and he refuses to cherish any hopes at all. Maybe Hein wanted to show what East Germany was like without the hope for change. The book was first published in 1989, when this change was finally happening...	2000-11-01
US	49769616	R1909E4M2BIHMZ	0679767878	187559849	The Man Without Qualities Vol. 1: A Sort of Introduction and Pseudo Reality Prevails	Books	5	188	199	N	N	Essential Reading	Like Thomas Mann's &quot;Magic Mountain&quot;, this immense book aims at giving an overview of the ideas of its time. Musil is a more precise thinker and stylist than Mann, and &quot;The Man Without Qualities&quot; has a lot more to offer than Mann's book.<br />  There are two opposing tendencies in the novel: On the one hand, Musil offers a highly entertaining satirical portrait of Austria-Hungary right before the First World War. His detached hero Ulrich meets all kinds of bizarre people, who happen to be members of the ruling class of the country. Like a vivisecteur, Ulrich analyzes the philosophies and ideologies of his time. On the other hand, he dreams of a kind of new mysticism, an emotional purity that is opposed to the dross surrounding him; together with his sister he embarks on quest for &quot;the other state of being&quot;. Musil never finished the novel, he died before he could achieve a conclusion; which may have been impossible anyway.<br />  This gigantic torso of a novel is arguably the greatest novel of the century. I have not yet come across anything that could rival it. Musil's prose is so precise that after reading a few pages you feel that your mind has been refreshed and cleared. This is not a novel to be read in a few days, but even if you never manage to finish it, you will always come back to it.	2000-11-01
US	49769616	RNF1Z64XB06D2	0374515344	441960580	The Quest for Christa T.	Books	5	22	22	N	N	A woman who does not fit in	Christa T. is the story of a woman growing up in post-war East-Germany - under Communist rule. She is not openly hostile to the regime, but she is a woman who does not fit in, a dreamer and a romantic. Her life is not outwardly dramatic: She reads literature at university, works as a teacher, marries a vet and lives far away from the big city, but this intensely private life was in itself an act of rebellion in a country which wanted fervent supporters of Communist doctrine, and which expected writers to celebrate tough workmen.       Christa T. is also the story of a woman trying to find the words to write about another woman's life, and this is &quot;The Quest for Christa T.&quot;  - Christa Wolf ranks among the best authors now writing in German, and the quiet tragedy of Christa T. is one of her most moving books.	2000-11-01
US	49769616	RE8B00KPCUTDB	0820446254	427108729	Adalbert Stifter Indian Summer	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Happily ever after	Adalbert Stifter's novel &quot;Indian Summer&quot; must be one of the strangest books in world literature. Stifter seems to have tried to imagine an ideal life which is not disturbed by any outward trouble. So his hero Heinrich Drendorf, a merchant's son from Vienna, grows up happily. The book is about his friendship with an old man who has retired from politics and created an ideal little world on his country estate. Classicism is revered, but only from a distance: People have to wear felt slippers in order to preserve the precious marble floors. The two men spend their time making and preserving beautiful things and exploring the geography of the Alps.<br />  Reading &quot;Indian Summer&quot; is a bit like meditating, the book draws you into an atmosphere of calm and beauty. Some people feel there is something uncanny about this world, and in the old man's case the reader finally finds out that this quiet life is just his Indian Summer after a youth of violent passions. Young Heinrich grows up without such disturbances, but can anyone really live so harmoniously? This is a book of immense daring, as Stifter tries to answer the question if happiness isn't a bit boring in the long run.	2000-10-19
US	49769616	R7GUN6ZYBI681	0811214303	850711751	Vertigo	Books	5	12	14	N	N	Sebald in Italy and the Alps	Although it as only now come out in English, &quot;Vertigo&quot; preceded &quot;The Emigrants&quot; and &quot;Rings of Saturn&quot;, and was the first book in which Sebald developed his unique prose style. There are four sections of varying length. The first is devoted to the French writer Stendhal crossing the Alps with Napoleon; the following one shows us the familiar Sebald persona in Italy; the third is about Kafka's trip to the same country; the last and most moving one has the narrator return to his native Bavaria. To those who know Sebald, no more needs to be said. To the others, one might try to give an idea by saying that Sebald's style could perhaps be explained as a kind of civilized interior monologue; it always implies the awareness that writing cannot imitate the way we really think, yet it uses the associations that come to the narrator's mind to make the texutre of the narrative immensely satisfying and touching.	2000-10-13
US	49769616	R1JBBQRQGUFKHT	1852352566	463798090	Collected Poems	Books	5	19	20	N	N	Get this book! It's worth every cent!	In his native Ireland, connaisseurs regard Mahon's poetry as superior to Seamus Heaney's, and why Mahon's works are so little known is a mystery to me. Maybe it is because he is not interested in the merely picturesque aspects of Ireland, and also because he has broken free of that country at least outwardly. Finally, there is almost always a sense of impending apocalypse in Mahon's poetry, which some people may feel unable to stomach. As a matter of fact, this poetry reminded my of W.G. Sebald's prose. In both cases a wide learning helps the speaker understand the details of a world gone wrong; both Sebald's and Mahon's works seem to be dominated by a feeling of grief.<br />   Colleagues and critics acknowledge Mahon's rank among the finest poets of our time (&quot;work of the highest order&quot; Seamus Heaney; &quot;real mastery&quot; W.S. Mervin). What matters to me, however, is that he is by far my favorite poet now writing in English. <br />   Of course I would like to quote a few lines now to give you an idea of what Mahon's poetry can do, but Mahon's oeuvre is so rich and diverse that the following verses will inevitably give you a wrong impression. Mahon wrote them in the early seventies, when the so-called &quot;Troubles&quot; had torn apart his native Northern Ireland:<br />   &quot;And I step ashore in a fine rain / To a city so changed / By five years of war / I scarcely recognize / The places I grew up in, / The faces that try to explain. // But the hills are still the same / Grey-blue above Belfast. / Perhaps if I'd stayed behind / And lived it bomb by bomb / I might have grown up at last / And learnt what is meant by home.&quot;	2000-10-13
US	49769616	RGB9HL0X8VZMG	999221693X	97118729	Selected Poems of Louis MacNeice	Books	5	4	4	N	N	This is poetry!	Louis MacNeice may be a minor poet, but he deserves to be a lot more popular than he actually is. MacNeice was born in Northern Ireland in 1907, but he spent most of his life in England; he was a friend of W.H.Auden and Stephen Spender, and his poetry can be compared to theirs. However, MacNeice remained a more critical and intellectual spirit, and at the same time his poetry was more ambitious in scope. This does not mean that his works are any less accessible than Auden's, quite the contrary.<br />   MacNeice's poetry opens up large vistas, it is full of the phrases and sounds and details of his time. Maybe his most important work is the sequence of long poems called &quot;Autumn Journal&quot; which encapsulates the spirit of 1938, shortly before the outbreak of World War II: <br />   &quot;To-day was a beautiful day, the sky was brilliant / Blue for the first time for weeks and weeks / But posters flapping on the railings tell the fluttered / World that Hitler speaks, that Hitler speaks / And we cannot take it in and we got to our daily / Jobs to the dull refrain of the caption 'War'&quot;<br />   MacNeice does not only express those political and public worries, he also wrote intensely private poems which also connect inner and outer worlds, great emotions and the everyday situations which caused them:        &quot;But dawn's waves trouble with the bubbling minute, / The names of books come clear upon their shelves, / The reason delves for duty and you will wake / With a start and go on living on your own.&quot; <br />   There are lots of glances back at his native Ireland, too, but a brief review such as this one can only give you the faintest idea of the enormous scope of MacNeice's poetry anyway. His poetry mirrors his fascination with the variety and flux of life. In this his work is unique and should not be missed.	2000-10-13
US	49769616	R1EFZJJWHGILDX	0393974871	82922035	The Norton Anthology of English Literature, Vol. 1	Books	5	20	21	N	N	Immaculate	Of course as a student one is bound to hesitate before spending fifty quid on a book, but this one is absolutely worth ist. Abrams and Greenblatt have not just gathered what is indispensable in English literature; the Norton Anthology features brilliant introductions and short biographies, which are concise and readable. All the works presented are scrupulously annotated. And finally the reader gets suggestions for further reading which really help.<br />  There may be a bias towards poetry and high literature in the selection. Poetry, however, is the only genre in which an anthology of this size can give you almost everything you want to know. Individual edititons of classic novels or plays, however,  are a lot easier to get hold of than books of poetry, so I feel the editors' choice is fully justified.    You will find yourself turn back to the Norton Anthology even long after you have finished college; it is a book that opens up new worlds.	2000-10-12
US	49769616	R2VSFQT3ILZ2KC	0571118321	479410233	The Strings Are False	Books	5	14	14	N	N	What it means to be middle class and an intellectual in 1930	Even on the very first pages of this &quot;unfinished autobiography&quot; there is a hint of snobbery, but that MacNeice is aware of the snobbery he was trained to feel as a member of the middle class is one of the strengths of the book. MacNeice, a poet and friend of W.H. Auden and Stephen Spender wrote this account of his life in 1940 at the age of 33; he never got it published during his lifetime. Maybe he felt the book was too honest - which the modern reader will certainly regard as its chief virtue. MacNeice is far from being a holy man or from being a glamorous bonvivant, and he never tries to give the impression of being what he his not. <br />   MacNeices biography is quite exemplary. He was born in Belfast as the son of an Anglican clergyman with &quot;Home Rule&quot; - sympathies, yet at the age of seven he was sent to a private school in England and never came back to Ireland except on holiday. He felt torn between his Irish and British identities for the rest of his life. At the same time there was the identity of the public school boy, who when at Oxford despised the serious petty bourgeois students from grammar schools, and who when teaching at Birmingham University never took his students very seriously, just because they were not middle class. <br />   MacNeice is a lot more aloof than Auden or Spender, he never really falls for the temptation of communism, nor was he bound to be charmed by Catholicism. He tells quite vividly how he got his full share of religion while growing up in a rector's house. Northern Ireland, Oxford, Birmingham, London, Spain, France, the USA are the places where he explores different kinds of conflicts. Combined with his absolute honesty this makes MacNeice the ideal companion to show us what life was like in the 1920s and 1930s in Britain. He hardly ever mentions his poetry, so this is not just a book for poetry lovers. MacNeice's scepticism has been compared to Orwell's, but in contrast to Orwell he does not affect to bean outsider. He admits that life could be quite comfortable at the time. Just like Orwell, however, MacNeice did not fail to read the writing on the wall.	2000-10-12
US	49769616	R380DLDTQIW27L	0374525064	988411328	The Figured Wheel: New and Collected Poems, 1966-1996	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Metaphysical Poetry for the people	In contrast to, say, John Ashbery, Charles Simic, or Mark Strand, Robert Pinsky's poetry is practically unknown among literary circles in Europe. I guess it is Pinsky's variety both in tone and subject matter, which make him hard to place, and maybe even more, his obviously positive attitude towards life and ordinary people, which make it impossible for him ever to become the darling of European intellectuals.<br /> Writing a long poem called &quot;An Explanation of America&quot; makes it look as if Pinsky wanted to place himself in the tradition of Whitman. And there is something Whitmanesque (?) in the sheer width of Pinsky's concerns - in contrast to contemporaries who dig in the same ground over and over again, Pinsky's imagination tries to encompass the variousness of what's going on around him and in his mind. Just flicking through the table of contents will show you that &quot;Jesus and Isolt&quot;  or &quot;The New Saddhus&quot; sit comfortably side by side with what seems like childhood memoirs. Pinsky's humour and sense of irony are a far cry from Whitman, however, and so is his stylistic variety which matches the one of his concerns. <br />   The Pinsky I like best is the one of the rather short, unpretentious poems like &quot;The Beach Women&quot;. Here, the speaker recalls his youthful fascination with thirtyish women in the 50s:<BR>&quot;On those days I admired their tans, white dresses, / And pink oval fingernails on brown hands, and sold them / Perfume and lipstick, aspirins, throat lozenges and Tums, / Tampax, newspapers an paperback books - brave stays / Against boredom, discomfort, death and old age.&quot;<br />Other poems may seem daunting by the learnedness they display or by the whimsy of their conceits (I guess that is what put off some of the readers here), but I can only advise you to come back to those poems again - Pinsky's are poems you will not forget; and the more you are familiar with his poetry, the more you will appreciate it. <br />If Pinsky starts in a Whitmanesque vein (&quot;possible to feel briefly like Jesus, / A gust of diffuse tenderness&quot;), he is honest enough to go on: &quot;But how love falters and flags / When anyone's difficult eyes come / Into focus, terrible gaze of a unique / Soul, its need unlovable&quot; - but he does not leave it at that either. Find out for yourself!	2000-10-01
US	49769616	RFTP7PWNVFU74	0811213668	256202992	The Emigrants	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Songs of Loss	Why do most reviewers fail to state the obvious first: This is not a novel; it is a collection of four &quot;long narratives&quot; (as Sebald  says himself), four meetings with people who left Germany at some stage or  other in their lives. Sebald manages to explore the meaning of details, the  larger implications of the way the protagonists live in a unique,  restrained way. The lyrical intensity of his language can create the  atmosphere of the decaying Manchester of the 1960s in a way you will never  forget. On first reading Sebald I felt, yes, this is how one can write  after Joyce, Woolf, and the lot of them.	2000-08-17
US	49769616	R1XZ1BE22RFYN6	0810110490	274700893	Fateless	Books	5	147	155	N	N	Unique view of the Holocaust	This is the most shocking book about the Holocaust I know. What makes the book so unique is the narrator, a 15-year-old Hungarian Jew whose language  reminded me of Salinger in the beginning. The perspective of this naive boy  allows Kertesz to describe the narrator's and his father's deportation  without any idea of what's going to happen next. - Kertesz experienced much  of this in his own life, and yet he had enormous trouble getting the book  published. It was regarded as a scandal that the hero says that even in the  concentration camps he experienced moments of happiness. This does not  mean, however, that Kertesz makes it appear to be fairly harmless in the  manner of &quot;Life is Beautiful&quot;. No, his perspective, which is free  from any hindsight makes us see the Shoa in all its horror for the first  time.	2000-08-17
US	49769616	R3QAUS2OK6CWB6	1569249644	873529297	Journey to Poland (European Sources)	Books	5	18	19	N	N	The way Jews really lived	Alfred Döblin was of Jewish origin himself, but his background was so secular that he couldn't really relate to his Jewishness. After some first  pogroms in 1920s Germany, Döblin decides to travel to Poland to find out  about the traditional Jewish way of life. Döblin is shocked.    Life in the  ghettos is horrible, the places are overcrowded and dirty. Most Jews lead a  life completely apart from the Polish people around them. They didn't have  the chance to lead a &quot;normal&quot; life, as they were discriminated  against in a way which seems to be an early form of apartheid. This way of  life must influence people's view of the world: Döblin is struck by the  religious fanaticism, which he finds fascinating and repulsive at the same  time.<br />  Of course the book tells you a lot about the short-lived Polish  Republic of the 1920s too, but the Jews are Döblin's main interest. He  describes a civilization which was completely destroyed by the Nazis only a  few years later. Of course Döblin's view is that of an outsider, but he is  a highly civilzed and sympathetic outsider, and I am sure his picture is a  lot more realistic than all those of idyllic Schtetels where bearded people  are busy being merry and making music.	2000-08-16
US	49769616	R1CYCVXWCLD9OF	0156155516	689518606	Cat and Mouse	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Growing Up in Nazi Germany	Joachim Mahlke and his friend Plienz (who is the narrator of the story) grow up in wartime Danzig, the free city disputed between Germany and  Poland over which World War II started. Maybe the most striking feature of  the novella is that it shows how natural the war and Nazi rule appear to  those adolescents, simply because it is the only world they know.<br />  The  &quot;Great&quot; Joachim Mahlke is the dubious hero of the story. His most  striking feature is his huge Adam's apple, about which he feels highly  self-conscious. Maybe he is trying so hard to be a hero to make the others  forget his deformity? Is that what makes him dive into the sunken Polish  minesweeper to retrieve all kinds of objects? Is that why he steals an Iron  Cross from a war hero? (The Iron Cross is a medal worn around the neck, so  that it would hide Mahlke's Adam's apple). And is it finally, the reason  why Mahlke is so keen on joining the army himself? After a short time he  has destroyed so many Russian tanks that he is awarded the Iron Cross  himself...<br />  This summary will give you only a faint idea of the book,  for it cannot encapsulate the feeling of summer and of being young which  Grass manages to include - without denying the dreadful things happening at  the very same time. In a book of less than 200 pages Grass resurrects the  Danzig of his own youth. If you haven't read any Grass yet, start at this  one; it is perfect.	2000-08-16
US	49769616	R1JWVCB9YC6JJN	015675830X	127927021	The Rat	Books	4	11	11	N	N	Apocalypse Then	In the early 1980s the Cold War was on its last legs, but at the time it  did not quite feel that way. Especially in Europe, many people were afraid  that the new more sophisticated nuclear missiles would sooner or later  destroy humanity. At the same time there were growing worries about the  environment, as trees and whole forests seemed to be dying from the  exposure to pollution. That is the background of Grass' novel &quot;The  Rat&quot;, which is his own version of the Apocalypse.<br />   The  construction of the novel is very intricate, poems and prose interweave  several plots. The rat of the title is a pet which the narrator keeps, and  which suddenly starts telling him about the end of humanity in a nuclear  war; rats survive and found a new civilisation. The narrator does not want  to accept this and starts telling stories to prove to the rat that he still  exists. There definitely is a feeling of endgame about the novel, as Grass  summons characters from earlier novels (such as Oskar from &quot;The Tin  Drum&quot;), all the women he has loved (the five of them corss the Baltic  Sea in a boat) and his native Danzig-Gdansk as if to say goodbye to them  all. In another subplot, characters from well-known fairytales try to start  a kind of revolution to save the German forests. <br />   Much of this is very  poignant, some of it full of brilliant black humour, yet somehow I get the  impression that maybe Grass tried to do too much here. The novel is far  from being a page turner. As both the rat and the narrator insist on their  points of view, some annoying repetitions occur. - To me it seemed quite  dated, too. Even Grass himself seems to be less worried about the end of  the world today, as his recent novels are more concerned with the  injustices of German unification. That said, &quot;The Rat&quot; is  representative of its time - and it is a daring vision which few writers of  Grass' standing have attempted. Maybe it will prove a case of greatness  which was not recognized in its own time.	2000-08-11
US	49769616	R2EIIYDQLIBPH1	0801855926	387522227	Friday	Books	5	13	14	N	N	Inside Crusoe	Rewriting Robinson Crusoe? Tournier tells an entirely different story, although the outward details are mostly the same as in Defoe's novel. The  interest has shifted to what's going on inside Crusoe. And instead of the  self-confident Christian who steadily builds up a colony, Tournier shows us  a man of radical twists and turns. At first he even seems to have given up  completely, letting himself sink into the mud. However, when he pulls  himself together and starts colonizing the island, that turns out to be  just a stage in his development, too.<br />   This is a very witty and  original novel, with many things to enjoy for those who are familiar with  Defoe's book. At long last we find out that Crusoe did have some kind of  sexuality after all...	2000-08-09
US	49769616	R1TYBV85N8SHXH	0451523032	451333365	The Sorrows of Young Werther and Selected Writings (Signet classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Young man trying to find his place in the world	Somebody may have told you this is a story about some late 18th century  guy who is unhappily in love with a girl and ends up killing himself. That  somebody might add that Napoleon disliked this unhappy ending, and that the  book so impressed its young readership that people did not only start to  dress like Werther but even killed themselves. <br />  The fairly slim novel  consists of letters written by Young Werther to his friend Wilhelm. The  book is not just a love story, however, for there are quite a number of  other things which make his life difficult. Werther is supposed to start a  career, but the sensitive young man finds it impossible to play his part in  the soulless machinations of his bosses. Maybe his love for Lotte, who is  married to another man, becomes so important to him, because she stands for  the simple, authentic life he wants to lead.<br />   This book triggered off  the Romantic movement all over Europe and seems to have been the  &quot;Generation X&quot; of its time.	2000-08-08
US	49769616	R2T5HDLSUJX5T	0140239375	346778627	The Discovery of Heaven	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Clever, entertaining, easily digestible	&quot;The Discovery of Heaven&quot; is a very rich and entertaining book about two eccentric friends and their adventures in the restless sixties:  Onno is an anarchic linguist from a dynasty of Calvinist Dutch politicians;  Max is an astrologer who lives in the same country, but his family history  is far more troubling: his father was a German from Austria; during the war  he divorced his Jewish wife so she could be deported to Auschwitz.<br />   The  choice of heroes indicates that Mulisch wanted to write a throroughly big  book which gives a panoramic view of Europe and the world in the second  half of the 20th century. He seems to attempt a cross between Thomas Mann's  &quot;Magic Mountain&quot; and Goethe's &quot;Faust&quot;, as he has even  God's closest assistants appear on the stage and elect a boy to perform a  task as God's secret agent...<br />   It does not quite work out however,  because plot and ideas are drowned in 800 pages of period detail. Mulisch  is a very clever man, but the book does not quite live up to the task it  seems to have set itself. Most of the time it is just an family history in  the Netherlands; the last chapters are obviously more than an afterthought,  but they cannot really disturb the atmosphere of comfortable living in a  comfortable country - which is not in itself a bad thing, is it? If you are  interested in European culture, this is the novel to pick. Mulisch takes  care to explain all his clever allusions to the less erudite readers, so  you will finish it feeling you have learned something. &quot;The Discovery  of Heaven&quot; will not disturb you too much, for even in a state of  affliction its clever characters never lose their appetite for clever  remarks.	2000-08-07
US	49769616	R2N8UIC1MZRL2N	0684852683	514611459	Dreams Of My Russian Summers: A Novel	Books	5	7	8	N	N	Dreams and Horrors	Yes, there is a lot of dreaming in this book, dreams about the France of the Belle Epoque. But those dreams are surely not the most fascinating aspect of the book, for these dreams are mostly necessary to counterbalance  the horrors of living in Russia during the years of the revolutionary wars  and Stalinism. The narrator's grandmother just happened to be in the wrong  place at the wrong time. So in the end she must be glad to have saved a  quiet life on the endless steppe.<br />  She shares her dreams with the  narrator, who is her grandson and visits her regularly during the summer  holidays. For him too, the second French identitiy becomes a means of  surviving the time of Stalinist uniformity. This is a book of epiphanies,  without which, the narrator comes to realize, life would not be bearable.      The lyrical passages alternate with shocking factual descriptions - and  there is a story, too, with a very amusing and revealing twist in the end.	2000-07-31
US	49769616	REGMLBBFTZ8DD	0670887315	929204920	Disgrace	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Brilliant exercise in melancholy	I doubt I have ever come across a more melancholic book than this one. A man who doesn't have the spirit of his age, Voltaire once observed, gets all the unhappiness of his age. University lecturer David Lurie is an alien  in the New South Africa, but as a teacher of poetry by dead male Europeans  he would be an alien at any streamlined politically correct university in  the Western world. He is in a state of personal crisis, too, as he does not  get women's love for free anymore but finds he has to pay for it. <br />The  beginning of the story in middle class Cape Town is not unconventional, but  as Lurie leaves the city to stay with his daughter on her farm, the story  gradually moves to heights of desolation. Lurie and his daughter are  attacked and she is raped by their black neighbours - but she feels one has  to accept this as part of the new order of things, and it doesn't keep her  from working together with the men who raped her. Lurie finds this  unacceptable and shows some bravery in confronting the attackers, but  nobody understands him anymore. <br />Coetzee's language is simple and clear,  without any pretentions. Its stark beauty suits the inner landscapes of  despair which he depicts. The book ends on a note of profound resignation.  Kafka once asked why people whose life is horrible don't change it.  &quot;It's because they can't do it; everything that is possible, happens  after all; only that is possible which happens.&quot;	2000-07-31
US	49769616	R30958HQ94YM28	0803252242	117038791	The World of Yesterday: An Autobiography	Books	5	60	63	N	N	So close, so far away	In the 1920s and 1930s Stefan Zweig was one of the most popular wirters of the world, best known for his biographies. After the Nazis had driven him from his native Austria because he happened to be Jewish, he tried to  remember his own life. As he stresses in a preface, he does this not  because he thinks that his own life is important, but to give as a view of  the exciting times he experienced.<br />Zweig was born in 1881, so the times  he describes are not more than 100 years away from ours - and yet it is all  incredibly far away, even to a European like myself. Zweig describes  pre-war Austria-Hungary as a &quot;world of security&quot; where nothing  ever changed. The Jewish Bourgeoisie to which he belonged were obsessed  with culture; even as adolescents, Zweig and his friends tried to get hold  of the latest in German and French poetry. And to understand what you have  heard about Freud, just read the chapter about the sexual hypocrisy among  Vienna's upper class around 1900!<br /> World War I changes this world of  tolerance and security for ever. Zweig's country is broken up into  ridiculous fragments, and the German-speaking countries are in a state of  unrest which will eventually lead them into the self-destruction of Nazi  barbarism. At the same time, the 1920s are a time of unprecedented  creativity for German and Austrian writers (Thomas Mann, Musil, Rilke,  Kafka etc.). Zweig shows us this wonderful world of letters, not just in  his own country and language, but also in France, Italy, England. He meets  Joyce, Rilke, G.B. Shaw, H.G. Wells and Yeats. Zweig's book shows you the  riches European culture had to offer before World War II put an end to it.  Zweig himself tried to start a new life in Brazil, but when the Nazis had  conquered all of Europe in 1942, Zweig gave up all hope and committed  suicide. Zweig's tragic fate mirrors that of Europe in his time. This book  should be read by anyone who is interested in European culture in the 20th  century.	2000-07-29
US	49769616	RRQFRTUAV08LH	014044257X	978555038	Philosophical Dictionary (Penguin Classics)	Books	4	15	23	N	N	Not quite what the title suggests	The title &quot;Philosophical Dictionary&quot; might lead you to expect something quite different from Voltaire's actual book: Far from being a systematic overview of the most important philosophical terms of his time,  irreverent Voltaire included anything which could be used as the subject of  a polemic article. It is not by chance that Voltaire has come to be known  as Christianity's or Catholicism's most famous adversary, for almost half  of the entries are about the Bible and Christianity; in these, Voltaire is  busy pointing out faults or absurdities. With regard to these articles I  can only stress what is my general view of Voltaire: He is mostly right  about what he says, but not all of it is as entertaining today as it may  have seemed to his contemporaries.<br />The other half of the dicitonary  consists of the truly philosophical entries; and these, too, are as  different in form as could be: little stories, dialogues and fairly  abstract and ordered expositions. Some of these are masterpieces and tell  us a lot about philosophy in the 18th century. All in all, however, this  book proves once again that Voltaire was more of a journalist and a writer  than a truly original philosopher. (Comparing him to Nietzsche, that most  original of philosophers, is hardly appropriate.)	2000-07-29
US	49769616	R2JGY96DRNE857	0151803870	132783171	Selected Essays	Books	5	24	29	N	N	Stimulating for any student of literature	T.S. Eliot was the dominant figure in modernist literature not just because of his poetry, but also because of his criticism which changed our view of English literature in ways which can still be felt today. He  resurrected the forgotten John Donne and had him eclipse John Milton as  idol of poetry. He showed that Shakespeare was not the only playwright of  his time. He was brillitant at explaining what made modernist literature  different from its perdecessors.<br />Eliot's style is a pleasure to read  compared to what passes as lit crit today. Many of his insights may seem  outdated, but any student of literature will find fascinating views,  especially about Elizabethan literature.	2000-07-27
US	49769616	R1UQGDVM6Y5N0P	0374518793	134708682	Auto-da-Fé: A Novel	Books	3	5	15	N	N	Horror	Compared to Canetti's novel, Kafka's works seem to present a an almost cozy vision of humanity. &quot;Auto-Da-Fe&quot; made on of the most horrible reads of my life: There is not a single character in it for which  one can feel any sympathy. The specialist in Chinese literature who marries  his servant and their cruel caretaker are about the only characters in this  chamber play of people tormenting each other. - I know people who think  this is brilliant comedy, but to me it seems you must be about as sarcastic  as the North Pole to find this icy view of humanity funny.	2000-07-27
US	49769616	R2RKD9RDYBQ2RK	0140440178	483358679	Old Goriot (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Cynical and touching	Of course there is a paradox, but Balzac manages to make this story touching while being extremely cynical about his characters. Old Goriot is a man who worked all his life and then ruined himself to enable his  daughters to marry rich. In this he was successful, they both live  comfortably as spouses of rich bourgeois. Ironically, they are ashamed of  their father's modest background and have virtually stopped seeing him, not  to mention taking care of him. Thus he spends his old age in a dismal  pension, roaming the streets in the hope of a glance of his daughters - of  whose success he is still proud.<br />There is not even a hint of  sentimentality in this novel, nor does Balzac pass any easy judgments. This  is C19 realism at its best. Turn to this Frenchman to find what no author  writing in English managed to do in that century.	2000-07-27
US	49769616	R2VH9IB30V7J4W	0720610303	983712853	Among Women Only	Books	5	14	15	N	N	Like a Hemingway for grown-ups	This is the story of a successful businesswomen coming back to her native Turin to direct the establishment of a new fashion store. It's the time of carnival, shortly after the war. The independent protagonist is in stark  contrast to other helpless women around her.<br />  Pavese's style is  influenced by Hemingway and Steinbeck, but the way he treats his subject  matter strikes me as a lot more grown-up. There is no machismo, no false  sentimentality. Although it is more than fifty years old, there is  something very contemporary about the novel. <br />  The book is pervaded by a  grief which may foreshadow Pavese's suicide a few months after &quot;Among  Women Only&quot; won him the highest literary awards in Italy.	2000-07-23
US	49769616	R2SRNGI8FG2R3O	015505452X	897962274	Glossary of Literary Terms	Books	5	12	13	N	N	The best book on literary terms I know	In contrast to other dictionaries or encyclopedias whose cramped style is barely readable, this Glossary of Literary Terms is a book to enjoy. There are little essays on all major literary terms; those which can only be  understood in their context are included in essays of a different heading  (e.g. &quot;Bildungsroman&quot; is one of the terms which are explained in  the essay about the &quot;novel&quot;). At first sight this may seem a bit  complicated, but in the long run it is a lot more efficient than the usual  dictionary-style presentation. <br />   Of course an advanced student of  literature may sometimes miss some details - but those are details nobody  would remember anyway. Mr Abrams only gives you the facts you really want  to know and memorize. And he does this in a style of remarkable clarity and  fluency. While this proves him to be a member of an old school of lit crit,  the Glossary contains good introducitons to recent trends as well  (postcolonial studies, gay and lesbian literature etc.)<br />   I am thankful  that I didn't have to study literature without Abrams' Glossary!	2000-07-23
US	49769616	RGKBU4E6DPPVJ	0460873806	41187753	Emile (Everyman's Library)	Books	5	28	29	N	N	A must read	Rousseau's &quot;Emile&quot; is a must read for everybody who is interested in education. The book may be more than 200 years old, but many of its insights could come up in any brand new treatise about modern  methods of teaching.<br /> &quot;Emile&quot; is the fictitious account of the  ideal education of a boy. (Maybe it was Rousseau's way of dealing with his  own failures as a father.) Rousseau believes that education must be to  blame for the deplorable state of the world, as &quot;Everything is good  that the Lord has made, it only degenerates in the hands of man.&quot; So  Rousseau rejects the drill and cruelty of the schools of his times, he opts  for freedom and learning by doing. Much of this is utopian, of course, but  in one of his brilliant remarks Rousseau claims that &quot;saying: Suggest  something that can be done, is like saying: suggest what we have been doing  all along.&quot;<br />This is one of the most brilliant books I have ever  read. If you read just one book about education, make it this one, even if  you are not prepared to agree with Rousseau.	2000-07-19
US	49769616	RWVN6JE6112EB	0553213695	377046405	The Metamorphosis (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Thrilling	Some professors may enjoy dissecting this book, making it appear to be one of the most complex in the history of literature, but basically this is a story that is as simple as a fairy tale and as exciting as a thriller:  Salesman Gregor Samsa wakes up and finds himself changed into an enormous  insect.<br />Kafka tells the ensuing troubles with a perfectly straight face.  In contrast to all those magic realists, he departs from what may happen  any day in only one particular, which makes the story all the more  haunting. Who has ever identified with an insect? The difficulties Gregor  faces are told from his point of view: his family don't believe it's him,  he cannot communicate, they try to get rid of him etc. This heartbreaking  novella can be enjoyed even by twelve-year-olds. This is definitely the  book you should start with if you want to have a go at Kafka.	2000-07-19
US	49769616	R2E3Y1RI4UCRG3	0374522758	248737748	Collected Poems	Books	5	54	55	N	N	Larkin will make you love poetry	Philip Larkin once remarked that he felt the poet should take the reader by the hand and lead them right into the poem. Maybe that is just another way of saying that his poems are accessible and will touch you even when  reading them for the first time. <br />  Yes, Larkin does embody the somewhat  grumpy spirit of post-war Britain, but like all  good poetry they are about  the something that seems to be missing in our lives. There are some  feelings no writer has ever put more precisely. Formally rather  conservative (rhyme, no daring metaphors), the vocabulary is utterly down  to earth. &quot;Talking in bed should be easiest,&quot; Larkin begins, only  to find out that with the lengthening of the silence &quot;It becomes stil  more difficult to find / Words at once true and kind, / Or not untrue and  not unkind.&quot;<br />  The feelings expressed may not always be nice, nor is  this much of a self-help book, so it is utterly opposed to the spirit of  our times, but this &quot;old-type natural fouled up-guy&quot; will make  you love poetry if you are not yet sure about whether your do (&quot;to  prove our almost-instinct almost true: / What will survive of us is  love.&quot;) Get this European poet looking at himself as if he were a  complete stranger as a contrast to you confessional poets!	2000-07-19
US	49769616	R3DD20UQLBZDQ3	0375405410	994608062	Simple Stories	Books	5	6	6	N	N	After the West has won	Schulze's book is an intriguing cross between a novel and a collection of short stories. Set in the small East German town of Altenburg, a group of main characters come up again and again, viewed from different  perspectives. Communism is gone, &quot;the West has come&quot; (as East  Germans like to put it), and people have more or less difficulty in  adjusting to the new situation. In contrast to Gunter Grass, Schulze does  not use his narrators as mouthpieces for his views on the transformation of  his home, which makes his book a lot more believable and representative  than many on the effects of German unification.<br />  No, sorry, this is not  a book about any political process: It is a book about people. And their  stories and obsessions are not confined to one moment in time or one place  on earth. Much of this can happen in Maine just as well as in Magdeburg.  Schluze is excellent at showing how spooky or meaningful the most mundane  of incidences can sometimes be. His masterful arrangement of the  &quot;Simple Stories&quot; keeps drawing you in, there is a mounting  tension - and, as I must admit, a growing sense of depression. In one way  or another, all of these people's lives seem to be going wrong. And yet  they survive, so one may find the effect exhilarating as well, for while  many characters fail to find a respectable place in a society which is  alien to them, they assemble a biography which is all the more individual  and interesting.<br />   Schulze has been hailed as one of the most  interesting writers of the younger generation in Germany - not just by the  critics, but by a large and loyal readership, too. The title of the book,  which can be read a both German or English, hints at Schulze's American  hero Raymond Carver. However, Schulze uses some of his techniques to  compose a caleidoscopic picture of East Germany after the downfall of  Communism - or of humanity after the big ideas?	2000-07-04
US	49769616	RWGQW9GCFHRYZ	014044095X	717798241	Maxims (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	19	N	N	World class aphorisms	Be warned! La Rochefoucauld is not a very edifying writer. He doesn't believe in making people better. Instead he says: &quot;Virtue wouldn't go very far if it were not for vanity keeping it company.&quot; The Maxims  offer one of the most disillusioned views of human nature in world  literature. What really recommends them, however, is their clarity and  elegance. Again and again they have been compared to diamonds.<br />  La  Rochefoucauld (1613-1680) is the most famous of the French moralists who  dissected human behaviour in razor-sharp aphorisms. Get this volume to  discover a tradition of thinking which is largely alien to English  literature, with the notable exception of Oscar Wilde.    &quot;Most young  people feel they are just being natural when they are nothing but  gross.&quot;	2000-06-09
US	49769616	R2VIPXAPFJLFOY	0156186004	535090105	A Collection of Essays	Books	5	34	34	N	N	Value for money	If you want to find out about Europe in the first half of the 20th century, this is the book you should book. These 300 pages offer excellent value for money; Orwell writes about the most diverse aspects of life:  elitist literature and pulp magazines, the horrors of boarding schools or  what it felt like to be a colonial officer in Burma. What he writes is full  of insight and first-hand experience. You will find yourself telling others  about what you have learned from this collection.<br />Orwell's style is not  just transparent &quot;like a window pane&quot;; it is just beautiful in  its rhythms and deadpan humour. - My personal recommendation is the essay  on &quot;Boys' Weeklies&quot;. These magazines did not only inspire  Rowlings' Harry Potter, but seem to have been an early form of the theatre  of the absurd as well...<br />The only setback of this edition is that it does  not say where the essays where first published.	2000-06-02
US	49769616	R272APU90KXM0K	0460878247	564570656	Poetry Please Eman Poet Lib #09 (Everyman Poetry)	Books	4	6	6	N	N	Is this England?	This is a collection of truly popular poetry: It contains the poems most people wanted to listen to when the BBC asked them to make suggestions for a programme of poetry readings. Not surprisingly the listeners preferred  melodic rhymes and accessible contents. There is some light verse, but  poems about the English countryside vastly outnumber it. I was surprised  that even towards the end of the 20th century poems such as Rupert Brooke's  &quot;Grantchester&quot; or Edward Thomas' &quot;Adlestrop&quot; are the  ones English people love best. At the end of the day the collection tells  us quite a lot about the way cultured English people saw the world, their  country and themeselves in the 1980s. It may be frustrating for most  contemporary poets, but the people seem to prefer sentimental ballads to  anything even remotely daring - it is as if Ezra Pound and his followers  had never lived.<br />P.S. Charles Causley wrote the introduction to the book  and contributed one of the poems (a fairly sentimental ballad, as it  happens), but this is NOT A COLLECTION OF CAUSLEY'S POETRY!	2000-05-26
US	49769616	R9MQWTUKNA6BK	0140283587	1856623	Are You Experienced?	Books	4	2	2	N	N	What do backpackers do all day?	Like many British school leavers from his country, Dave feel heshould go somewhere dangerous before he starts at university. India isnot his choice though, he merely follows Liz who he hopes to have sex with. What follows is a well-written satire on Brit backpackers in India. Dave suffers from the heat, gets stoned...etc. etc. I guess it wasn't too awfully difficult to write this book - just go round a Students' Union in England and tape the stories people tell: Everything was &quot;amazing&quot; of course, and the travellers come back a completely different person - though what exactly makes it amazing and in what the character change consists of would be asking too much. Sutcliffe is excellent on the pointlessness and shallowness of it all.<br /> Somewhere in the middle of the book, Sutcliffe has Dave meet a journalist who tells him: &quot;it's not hippies on a spiritual mission who come here any more, just morons on a poverty-tourism adventure holiday. Your kind of travel is all about low horizons dressed up as open-mindedness.&quot; Dave with all his would-be cynicism is a perfect example of this class of travelers. <br /> Some cheap shots cost the book its fifth star. If you loved to hate the post-hippies in Alex Garland's &quot;The Beach&quot;, you should go for &quot;Are you experienced?&quot;	2000-05-08
US	49769616	R2B1SCW2S2FSV8	0811214133	895075982	The Rings of Saturn	Books	5	5	5	N	N	The scars man has inflicted on the earth	On a superficial level, this is just an account of a walk in the English countryside. The Sebald-persona who tells us about this walk sees a lot more than ordinary tourists, who would never end up in that flat part of  England anyway. He &quot;reads&quot; the traces of history, which very  often are scars which man has inflicted on the earth. As Europe had a  decisive influence in the last centuries, Sebalds thoughts take us round  the world, to China, to the Congo and post-revolutionary France. <br />      This is a melancholic book, and to a European like myself it is quite  depressing to be once again reminded of what our ancestors have done to the  world. Sebald magnificently interweaves what he sees with what it reminds  him of, with silk being a motif which comes up in every chapter. His prose  is immaculate. A gem.	2000-05-05
US	49769616	R2AQZU7P47O74L	015100496X	730981999	My Century: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	100 glimpses of the last 100 years in Germany	The idea is great: Celebrate the turn of the century with a collection of 100 stories of just three or four pages, one about each of the last 100 years. They are told from different points of view, the narrators ranging form the Kaiser to humble workers - and of course a kind of Grass persona.  This book was tailormade for success and sold hundreds of thousands of  copies in Germany.<br />   To me, however, reading the book was a bit of a  letdown. Few of the stories are truly original, there is a whiff of the  library in many of the earlier ones. Mr Grass is a very honorable  old-fashioned Social Democrat, but the pieces on common people which he  felt obliged to include are the least interesting in the lot; not because  common people are not interesting, but because Grass has nothing much to  say about them apart from the fact that their lives are very hard.  Strangely enough, those people keep complaining all through the century -  Grass turns a blind eye on the high standard of living in the Germany of  the last decades.<br />   In spite of all those clichés, however, the book is  not much good as an introduction to German history either. There are too  many allusions which only a specialist in German literature and history  will be able to understand.        So far, this review doesn't sound very  much like four stars, but in spite of all these drawbacks I found the book  to be a compelling read. The few gems in &quot;My Century&quot; are well  worth reading the whole book. My favorite is Grass as boy and his cronies  acting scences from the Spanish Civil War on their 1930s schoolyard. Or the  two Eastern officials watching the fall of the Berlin Wall on TV with the  volume turned down, thinking it is a particularly nasty Western propaganda  movie.<br />   If you are interested in Euopean history, this book will tell  you a lot about the way people used to talk about it. As they are all  survivors, it all sounds surprisingly cosy in the end. There is some talkabout the horrors of war, but it usually happens decades later over a  couple of glasses of excellent wine. The book shows - and maybe that is  what Grass wanted it to do - how inadequate our ways of speaking about the  past are.	2000-05-03
US	49769616	R2OKSMWNZR5HAY	0679443673	642182881	Auden: Poems (Everyman's Library Pocket Poets Series)	Books	5	54	57	N	N	Some of the best poetry of the last century	This substantial selection from Auden's poems may well help the American reader get a first impression of one of the best poets of the last century. Born in England in 1907, Auden moved to the US in 1940 and became an important influence on many American poets of his time.  Unfortunately he  usually seems to be regarded as too British to become part of the canon.  While there is a very British sense of irony and self-deprecation in many  of these poems, the feelings they express are truly universal. <br />What  always strikes me about Auden is the musical quality of his poems and the  huge number of memorable lines. There are so many verses which you won't  forget although you've only read them one time or two, from the quirky:   <br /> &quot;I'll love you, dear, I'll love you /    Till China and Africa  meet, /    And the river jumps over the mountain /    And the salmon sing  in the street.&quot; to the more serious:   &quot;If equal affection cannot  be /    Let the more loving one be me.&quot;<br />As these lines do already  show, you do not need a dictionary do understand Auden. In contrast to the  generation of Eliot and Pound before them, Auden and his friends wanted to  write for the common reader and express the feelings of the people around  them. Even today people can relate to this, as the Auden renaissance after  the reading of one of his poems in the movie &quot;Four Weddings and a  Funeral&quot; proved.	2000-04-30
US	49769616	RCLG1BHFK01M2	0140441344	587835818	Adolphe (Penguin Classics)	Books	5	17	20	N	N	A heartbreaker speaks out	&quot;You can't always get what you want&quot;, the Rolling Stones famously admitted some decades ago. In a very French, disillusioned way, Constant explores what happens when you do get what you want.<br />  His anti-hero Adolphe manages to win the heart of the woman he has made himself  believe he loves. Soon enough, he is no longer so sure about his feelings  for her. By that time, however, she has already left her former partner and  is emotionally dependent on Adolphe. To put it bluntly, the novel is about  his trying and failing to get rid of her. The situation is getting more and  more tortuous for both of them.<br />  In a way this novel can be read as an  answer to Goethe's famous &quot;Sorrows of Young Werther&quot; in which the  protagonist ends up killing himself because he cannot get the girl he  loves. Of course Goethe's book was a lot more successful at the time than  Constant's. The worth of Constant's novel is that it is one of the few  instants in which somebody speaks out with whom somebody else is unhappily  in love with. There is less poetry in that position than in the opposite  one, but Constant's stark psychological realism in the tradition of the  French moralists makes this one a gripping read with a provocative  conclusion.	2000-04-29
US	49769616	RMF13Q190KCDF	0395744504	901064071	Webster's II New Riverside Desk Dictionary: for Home, School, Office	Books	4	4	5	N	N	Prudish	The definitions in this dictionary are immaculately precise and there is hardly any word you will not find, even though it is an abridged version. <br />   However, if you happen to learn English as a foreign language and want to use this book as a help to understand modern American literature -  beware! Any four-letter-words have been prudishly excluded, among them very  old and respectable words. To my surprise, it did bother to give the now  most common meaning of gay, but the editors seem to have done so only  grudgingly. Go for British dictionaries if you want to explore the full  range of the English language.	2000-04-29
US	49769616	RH49BIELVK3SP	0553211803	3653538	Middlemarch (Bantam Classics)	Books	5	7	8	N	N	One of the few English novels written for grown-ups	Virginia Woolf called Middlemarch &quot;one of the few English novels written for grown-up peole&quot;, and I could not agree with her more. In contrast to her male contemporaries such as Dickens or Thackeray with their sentimentality and their clean stories, Eliot comes as close to facing the  &quot;boredom, the horror and the glory&quot; as a C19 novelist can.  <br />Middlemarch is essentially about how lives can go wrong. It starts out  with idealistic Dorothea Brooke wanting to reform the world and young  Tertius Lydgate being about to rock the medical world with striking new  discoveries. Eliot shows what life does to those two. Or better say, she  points out how it is essentially each person himself or herself who is  responisble for what happens. &quot;Time will say nothing but I told you  so.&quot;<br />   No reader can fail to be touched by the wake-up call of this  book: We must face what we are about to to with our lives and not take  important decisions lightly.	2000-04-29
US	49769616	R3CKGHQZOJLQX1	0151189781	320895570	T. S. Eliot: Collected Poems, 1909-1962 (The Centenary Edition)	Books	5	11	14	N	N	&quot;Prufrock&quot; is the best	To judge from the amount of space devoted to Eliot in the latest collections of C20 American Poetry, Eliot doesn't seem to be popular any more. I guess he's regarded as too highbrow and too Catholic. Anyone who  tends to believe this must read &quot;Prufrock&quot; and enjoy its vigour,  its irony and its sheer cleverness. I always loved the tremendous amount of  aggression in those early Eliot poems, very often directed at the speaker  himself. Once you've come to like the young Mr Eliot, you might give the  later stuff a try as well. Far from being &quot;junk&quot;, the Quartets do  not just have a fascinating musical structure, but also embody a view of  life, history and religion which is not so daft after all...	2000-04-28
US	49769616	RLA5S60N0RRPS	0060930187	802369838	The Bell Jar: A Novel (Perennial Classics)	Books	4	0	1	N	N	The 50s	This novel of about 200 pages consists of two quite different halves. Esther Greenwood, a brilliant college girl in the early 5Os, spends a month in New York as guest editor with a women's magazine. The first half of the  novel is about her adventures with the other college girl guest editors in  New York. These are extremely funny. The mood, however, is darkening  constantly, so that on should not be too surprised that Esther collapses  completely after the expected admittance to a writing course does not come  through. The second half of the novel is about depression, suicide and  psychiatric wards. <br />  The book is fascinating (although I was a bit  surprised to see some reviewers rate it among the greatest novels of the  century), but the narrator is not always reliable - after all, she feels  she experiences life through a bell jar, cut off from the rest of the  world.    The book does not really help the reader understand depression  the way &quot;I never promised you a rose garden&quot; by Hannah Green did  for schizophrenia. We only get a very hazy notion of the nature of the  therapy, for example.<br />   Maybe it is because the novel is strongly  autobiographical, but the narrator always keeps a certain distance to  herself. There are lots of things she would never tell. There is hardly  anything she would not joke about. After all, that is what many reviewers  forget to mention: &quot;The Bell Jar&quot; is a very funny book with some  billiant satire on 50s America - not just in the first half!	2000-04-28
US	49769616	RSYRTAGNDDQ2N	0156148501	43278951	Burmese Days: A Novel	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Merciless	From now on this will my idea of the Raj: Some pathetic drunkards in the jungle who hate themselves and the people they govern. The stifling atmosphere is depicted with such vividness that no reader will easily forget it. At this, Orwell is truly excellent.  As for the plot - there  are some weaknesses, but it is gripping up to the very end.  Of course  we cannot be sure whether British rule in India was really like this.  However, Orwell had some first-hand experience of Burma. (As a matter of  fact, he had served five years in the Burmese colonial police.) And his  picture seems very plausible.  A friend of mine recently told me of for  still liking Orwell at my age; he thought he was a writer for adolescents.  That may be true if growing up means putting up with injustice and plain  wrong. If your idea of maturity is different, go for this book!	2000-04-24
US	49769616	R207ERQIHVQ3YV	0679736808	699806629	Babel Tower	Books	5	4	4	N	N	If you love books, go for it!	If you love books, don't miss out on this one! Get it for the summer holidays or something, because it will take time and concentration to read, but it is absolutely worth the effort. The intellectual precision of its essayistic passages echoes &quot;The Man Without Qualities&quot;, but here  it is combined with an increasingly fast-paced narrative which culiminates  in two court-room dramas which are unputdownable.  I enjoyed this book  without having read &quot;Still Live&quot; or &quot;The Virgin&quot;, so  don't worry if you haven't read them either.	2000-04-02
US	49769616	R1OS2QA1VY1U9Y	0714539945	686797694	The Flanders Road (RIVERRUN WRITERS) (English and French Edition)	Books	5	20	24	N	N	The best book about war I've ever read.	This novel is a bit as if the Virginia Woolf of &quot;Mrs Dalloway&quot; had written a book about wartime France. (Of course this is a ludirous comparison, but it might give you an idea what the book is like). Its sentences have neither beginning nor end, just like the nightmarish ride of  disoriented soldiers in the spring of 1940. They keep riding through the  cold, the dark and the rain for days and nights on end - only to be  attacked and wiped out within a matter of seconds. - Of course war is not  all there is about this book, but its depiction was what I could never  forget since I first read it.	2000-04-02
