US	49774379	R2F2PIK5I6GI25	0826449166	418073245	In Search of Jesus: Insider and Outsider Images	Books	4	7	9	N	N	Liberal Jesus Anthology	Clinton Bennett is clearly both a liberal Christian believer and a pluralist. Here he presents an anthology of images of Jesus, both historical and current, arranged in insider (Christian) and outsider (non-Christian) categories. The book gets to grips with questions of interpretation and image of pictures of Jesus starting from the belief that Jesus is interpretation from the first. Interpretation, for Bennett, leads to plurality, even if only as an empirical fact. He suggests this mandates an attitude of humility towards Jesus in place of a more dogmatic, and unsubstantiatable, certainty.<br />Bennett is clearly concerned not to sideline what might be described as marginal voices on Jesus. He writes in a consciously inclusive way. Space is given here to black, feminist, Jewish, Muslim, Hindu, Buddhist, film and fictional images in addition to more traditional ones and ones more related to the study of Jesus as an historical figure (i.e. that which is academically known as the Quest of the Historical Jesus). <br />The book is clearly aimed at a general readership. It contains a chapter on sources for the life of Jesus which, to a student or scholar of Jesus, would be largely mundane and uninspiring. Yet Bennett explicitly believes that the sources wrote about Jesus what they already believed to be true. If only he could have written more about this. Indeed, the trouble with this anthology, as with others, is that there is plenty of detailing of various images of Jesus but oh so little critique of these images. At one point Bennett remarks that we need to read not only the images of Jesus but the biography of the imager of Jesus. This is more intriguing stuff but Bennett doesn't really interact any further with his interesting suggestion.<br />Finally Bennett subsumes Jesus, in his image, under the rubric \\"a liberated and liberating Jesus\\". Bennett, who was a Christian missionary in a former life, offers us a liberal Jesus who can bring us peace, love and harmony. He writes, \\"Only when Jesus is Chinese for the Chinese, Indian for the Indians, will he be regarded as truly FOR these contexts\\". In this he may be right but he does not discuss this theoretically so much as land the belief in our laps without further discussion. This I regard as an oversight and a lack of persuasion on his part. There is also little attention to the Jesus of history as a constraint on pictures of Jesus (whilst the Jesus of history is discussed as a subject in itself). Indeed, a discussion of constraint more generally seems mandated by the subject matter here. Bennett offers us a tantalising and interesting selection of Jesus images, playing on what he remarks as \\"Christianity's belief in the translatability of the Gospel\\", but now I'm looking forward to the day when he can present us with a coherent presentation of how the multiplicity, plurality and translatability he presents might be regarded. Legitimate or legitimate? What controls, what should control, how Jesus is viewed? If Bennett's book be a guide, these questions are highly relevant for millions, if not billions of people.	2002-01-30
US	49774379	R28GVNWDAHHBD0	0393319598	270442802	In Defense of History	Books	3	23	33	N	N	Enigmatically Oblique	Richard Evans is a British historian. In this book he sets out a considered course for the practice of history, one that aims to pursue a course between the twin evils of overly conservative, objective positivism and a left-leaning, liberal postmodernism. The book has been billed as a defence of history against its more postmodernist abusers but I don't think this is true. Evans attacks the sterility of fellow British historians Sir Geoffrey Elton and E.H. Carr (and American historian Gertrude Himmelfarb) as much as he attacks a Hayden White, Keith Jenkins or Frank Ankersmit (all devils in disguise to conservative historians).<br />For all this I don't think that Evans says much for all the ink he has spilt. What perseveres through Evans' prose is nothing more (but perhaps nothing more is needed) than Evans' belief that we can do history, we can get at what happened in the past and we can deal critically, and beneficially, with the materials at our disposal. Evans writes what amounts to a defence of &quot;doing history&quot; as oppsed to theorising about history. Indeed, Evans is not hot on theory (he should perhaps steer clear of it in future) and his less than ample interaction with his opponents of the postmodernist persuasion in this book suggests to this reader that he is more of a distant acquaitance of their work than an intimate. A historian's rule of thumb comes into play here: if they mention something but don't interact with it to any great degree then assume they don't really know much about it.<br />Evans is largely an irenic and uncontroversial supporter of a broadly conservative historical approach. He is in defence of all the traditional (that is, post-Enlightenment) things such as &quot;facts&quot;, &quot;objectivity&quot; and &quot;truth&quot; whilst espousing a weak acceptance of some postmodernist proposals. Evans' usual trick here is to claim that actually the benefits of a lightly-worn postmodernism (such as accepting that historians affect and colour their own historical researches) are actually things that all real historians knew all along anyway. This is a neat, if obvious, trick and sometimes he almost gets away with it.<br />I have one major complaint. Evans repeatedly refers to &quot;postmodernist hyper-relativism&quot; but he never tells us what this is either briefly or, which would be more satisfactory, in detail. Once again, Evans might be proffering a phantom menace. At the very least it allows us, story-like, to conjure up our own historical demon to fight against as we read. In the end one is left with the conviction that theorists should theorise and historians like Evans should get on with DOING history. Personally I think that Evans' history books are a better defence of &quot;history&quot; (whatever that is, again he never defines) than this book turns out to be.d colour their own historical researches) are actually things that all real historians knew all along anyway. This is a neat, if obvious, trick and sometimes he almost gets away with it.<br />I have one major complaint. Evans repeatedly refers to &quot;postmodernist hyper-relativism&quot; but he never tells us what this is either briefly or, which would be more satisfactory, in detail. Once again, Evans might be proffering a phantom menace. At the very least it allows us, story-like, to conjure up our own historical demon to fight against as we read. In the end one is left with the conviction that theorists should theorise and historians like Evans should get on with DOING history. Personally I think that Evans' history books are a better defence of &quot;history&quot; (whatever that is, again he never defines) than this book turns out to be.	2002-01-19
US	49774379	R39VQGBOAE6QAZ	0609607677	511097220	Jesus and the Lost Goddess: The Secret Teachings of the Original Christians	Books	1	34	77	N	N	Not Recommended	Timothy Freke and Peter Gandy are at it again. Having given us a re-hash of poor 100 year old scholarship on the historical Jesus in their &quot;The Jesus Mysteries&quot; (a book notable for offering nothing new for those who know where to look), they now wish to pursue their &quot;researches&quot; linking Jesus with &quot;the Goddess&quot; - and linking all this in with ancient Gnosticism and the more general mystery religions which flourished in Roman times.<br />And yet one wonders why they start here. Is there in this book any attempt to interact with mainline scholarship on Jesus, early Christianity or Paul? A glance at the index and the notes shows us a giveaway list of eccentric and less than uninterested individuals. One senses that Freke and Gandy didn't write this book with an open mind! Now, of course, we should not be surprised at this. After all, do not these authors accuse scholarship on Jesus of being a closed shop of Christians perpetuating their own stories? The trouble is that Freke and Gandy perpetuate theirs and they aren't particularly convincing. Maybe they should ditch their pretension to being historical and settle for writing books on spirituality.<br />As such their fixation with &quot;decoding&quot; things and telling us what was REALLY going on in various &quot;mysteries&quot; might have some credit. As history this book's thesis is in no danger of being taken up widely, inside or outside academia, anytime soon. &quot;Why?&quot; one might ask. Well, not least because this book's title is a performative self-contradiction. If they are claiming to be telling us &quot;secrets&quot; then how come they have revealed them where 1900 year's worth of scholarship didn't? What new evidence might they have uncovered? (None.) What we have here are two modern day &quot;Gnostics&quot; furthering their agenda under cover of &quot;history&quot;. Fair play to them but don't expect many to be convinced.	2002-01-05
US	49774379	R4OGX15D3NPIE	0385469926	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus, Vol. 2 - Mentor, Message, and Miracles	Books	4	11	16	N	N	The Best Book in The Marginal Jew Series So Far	In this second volume of John Meier's &quot;A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus&quot; series Meier gets down to the meat of his subject. Here Meier tells us about Jesus relationship to John the Baptist (Mentor), his enunciation of the &quot;kingdom of God&quot; (Message) and his great deeds (Miracles).<br />The first two parts here I regard as solid stuff, building a picture of Jesus as an eschatologically minded individual following after John the Baptist who talks about God's domain on earth. This is a very (exclusively) Jewish Jesus. But then with the miracles Meier gets a bit silly. Apparently &quot;what happened&quot; with the miracles is, for Meier, an &quot;unhistorical&quot; question to ask; it is beyond history's bounds to investigate. Faith, of course, may have its opinions but that is not history and history is what Meier repeats that his study is about.<br />I think Meier cops out here. Its precisely the historian's business to say what they think happened and why. Meier, in effect, has his faith considerations which he intends to keep but not talk about. Maybe he finds caution a virtue. Funny, though, that Meier can write several hundred pages about things he claims not to be able to expedite! This is one place in this book where I sense that Meier is being too uptight about what &quot;history&quot; is. Meier seems to me to be at his best when he's doing history rather than talking about it.<br />However, that is but a little fault in a largely professional and standard volume on the historical Jesus.	2001-12-28
US	49774379	RHUQR5W0IMOS8	0385264259	449775023	A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus: The Roots of the Problem and the Person, Vol. 1	Books	4	4	8	N	N	The Best of A Certain Style of Scholarship on Jesus	When this volume was first written it was intended to be the first of three under the rubric &quot;A Marginal Jew: Rethinking the Historical Jesus&quot;. Eleven years on, and two more volumes later, we find that John Meier hasn't finished yet and there is now to be a fourth volume.<br />In this volume it all started out so professionally. Meier introduced us to his &quot;unpapal conclave&quot;, a metaphorical, rather than actual, group consisting of a Jew, a Catholic, a Protestant and an Agnostic who, for the purposes of Meier's literary fiction, were going to try and come to some consensus on what we could say with historical-critical reasonability about Jesus. I repeat at this point for those who have not understood this: there is no real group; it is Meier's fiction that his study would be what these, in theory, would be able to agree upon about the historical Jesus if they were to meet and discuss such matters in a historical context.<br />This book then splits into two parts, one detailing the background questions necessary to a discussion of the historical Jesus (sources and methods and the like) and the other detailing Jesus' own boyhood, socio-political background and familial status. Also included here is a chronology of Jesus' life. Meier's work here is extremely thorough. One intention of the book is to have copious endnotes which, it is suggested, are for serious scholars and doctoral students but which need not necessarily burden the general reader. Thus, the book can, in theory, be read on two levels. One wonders, though, who Meier is kidding. When one sees a reference to a note who is going to ignore it? Surely simple curiousity would make the reader go looking for the note?<br />But back to Meier's &quot;unpapal conclave&quot;. I'm not the first person to have a problem with it (for a problem with it I have). This study is MEIER'S work. It is not a consensus in any sense whatsoever (as perusal of the scholarly literature since its publication would attest). I actually think that the &quot;unpapal conclave&quot; spreads a nasty shadow across both this volume and those which follow it, not least because it is so unnecessary. Meier could have claimed to be writing a reasonable historical consensus document without pretending, for pretending he is, that such a group might putatively reach such conclusions. There simply are plenty of Jews, Protestants, Catholics and Agnostics who would never agree with Meier's findings or even his choices of reasonable sources and methods. Meier's reliance on this metaphor blights an otherwise thorough and professional and, here's the irony, largely reliable book. So that's one star gone. But you should certainly buy this book. It is the first volume of our era's standard work on the historical Jesus.	2001-12-21
US	49774379	REO1W9I1ZPNCO	0195124731	119454775	Jesus: Apocalyptic Prophet of the New Millennium	Books	4	7	14	N	N	For A Beginner	Not all historical Jesus books were created equal. Bart Ehrman has provided here a distinctly beginner's book which, along with its jokey language in an attempt to put the reader at ease, prods the surface of Jesus studies without getting too much under the surface.<br />What Ehrman gives us is, I imagine, something like his &quot;historical Jesus 101&quot; course: basic orientations to the gospels, the historical context, the sources for Jesus, an image that would seem to fit Jesus as a historical figure and how this might all fit together. We get some interesting additions in chapters on Jesus' &quot;afterlife&quot; and a retrospective &quot;then and now&quot;.<br />But its all still beginner's stuff. But thats not bad if you're a beginner and this book would serve you well if you were.	2001-12-17
US	49774379	R1D0PFO6DRT430	0684827255	861374931	The HUMAN CHRIST: THE SEARCH FOR THE HISTORICAL JESUS	Books	3	23	43	N	N	A Jounalistic Account of the Study of the Historical Jesus	My title is not supposed to be in praise of this book. No doubt that is my intellectual snobbery that this book, produced by a journalist on the distinctly academic and professional (though, as Allen shows, not always so professional) study of Jesus as an historical person, rubs shoulders, and criticises, many books produced by those with years of experience in this field. Allen has an eye for the headline (&quot;Avant-Garde Fashions&quot; and &quot;Sex and death for the cinema&quot; being two of her chapter headings) which is not meant to be praise either. For newspaper headlines, like their stories, are meant to be here today, making their impact, and then gone tomorrow. In this respect they are very like this book.<br />But this book deserves better than a negative review. Allen gives us reason to praise her book too. Primarily this is in her research which is thorough. General readers will learn much from this book for it offers a wide and varied catalogue of attempts to picture Jesus in a historically relevant way. I fear, however, that the student, academic or professional reader will see in what she has written what amounts to an overly-long newspaper article; thorough and interesting but lacking depth and critical appreciation of the subject matter.<br />And thats what this book lacks, depth, historical context, critical appreciation. Sure, the opening chapter gives us a chapter on &quot;Jesus' Jewish world&quot; but whole books are written on that alone. Scholars, and more enlightened readers in general, might also see in this chapter that Allen takes sides in an academic debate she is not formally part of, prefering &quot;Jewish Jesus&quot; to &quot;Meditteranean Jesus&quot; (a preference she keeps throughout the book). In that she needs to give a lot more documentation then she is doing here. But I'm being unfair for this book is a journalistic account of &quot;the search for the historical Jesus&quot; and thats exactly what it comes across as. Its all jolly stuff but it doesn't exactly stay with you for very long and it won't jump up and grab you and make you think for very long either.	2001-12-17
US	49774379	R3PWDGH7R9EH3B	0804743320	671697994	God's Beauty Parlor: And Other Queer Spaces in and Around the Bible	Books	5	27	30	N	N	Queer - and very very good	Here are four papers, of a distinctly dubious nature, that were written by Professor Moore over a number of years (and having gone through a number of versions) that are now presented in conjunction with Moore's interest, no, fixation with the sexual and the aesthetic. <br />These papers are dubious from an academic perspective because although the subjects be biblical, and although Moore be a biblical scholar, the papers are not what you would expect biblical studies papers to be about. Well, that is to say that this formerly would have been the case. Moore is one of a growing band of scholars who are being so bold as to make the Bible an object of culture rather than a straightforwardly &quot;given&quot; text which is interrogated as a theological or, perhaps, historical product. Thus, in this book we find something which might, at first, seem more the product of someone in an English Department or, maybe, a Cultural Studies Department. For here we find Queer Theory, Autobiographical Criticism and a good deal of ideology. This is to say that the book is multi-disciplinary in its approach.<br />The subjects of the four papers, most of them items which have appeared elsewhere before in briefer forms, are &quot;The Song of Songs in the History of Sexuality&quot; (a matter of, amongst other things, cross-dressing and breast pumps), &quot;On the Face and Physique of the Historical Jesus&quot; (why does he always appear so damn beautiful?), &quot;Sex and the Single Apostle&quot; (that is, Paul and homosexuality and Romans) and &quot;Revolting Revelations&quot; (the Revelation to John and Irish mythology and 4 Maccabees). In keeping with Moore's studied and precise style, these are very absorbing pieces, not least for their author's disarming (not to say alarming) penchant for autobiography. Will we ever tire of hearing about his butcher father, his drug-induced introduction to Christianity and his own sexuality (about which he is more engagingly coy)? Not, I suggest, ifhe writes about it like this.<br />So far this might not seem to be the average book in the biblical studies catalogue. And that would be right. For Moore is an outstanding observer of the biblical field. Who else has even questioned the APPEARANCE of the historical Jesus? It is in approaching topics like this, and in asking questions 99% of biblical scholars not only would not but do not ask, that makes Moore such a breath of fresh air in the biblical academy. Of course, his choice of subjects and his autobiographical turn might turn off readers and prospective readers. But this is where there is a sting in Moore's tail. For Moore is an absolutely brilliant writer and a first grade scholar. If you come to this book with a cynical attitude hoping that Moore's scholarship will be sloppy and so you can easily dispose of him you will go away disappointed. In this book (as in his others) Moore does not give you that option.<br />This book is not conventional in many ways (and yet is conventionally academic). But that should not limit its readership for this book is both fresh and mind-expanding. It engages thoroughly with both contemporary and ancient cultures and, thus, thoroughly contextualises its discussions. I thoroughly recommend it for its insight, its standard of scholarship and its straightforward enjoyment value.	2001-11-05
US	49774379	RC7UTU5O63KWV	0826408842	623223832	Christianity: Essence, History, Future	Books	4	31	32	N	N	Serious	Here is a book by the noted German Ecumenist Hans Kung. You can tell Kung is an Ecumenist, even if you've never heard of him, for this book is punctuated by &quot;Questions for the Future&quot; and parallels between, and for, different faiths. Kung's kind of ecumenism is not between denominations but between religions. In this book those faiths are primarily the Christian, the Jewish and the Islamic. Kung, so it seems, wants something approaching complete world religious tolerance. An interesting message in these days of terror.<br />Let us not accuse Kung of superficiality. This is no short book and the scholarship within is no mere trifle. The book demands, indeed, requires, a serious cast of mind. The ecumenism it wears so obviously will be found a challenge by some (for it asks us to recognise others) but it should not be allowed to put the reader off track. For the book repays serious study. What is paid out are questions. This book is a book of few answers. The wise reader, however, will recognise that answers are &quot;ten a penny&quot; and that questions are more fundamental.<br />Kung's paradigm approach to the incarnation of Christianity throughout history is interesting but always a matter of debate. His approach in many respects could be said to be chickening out. After all, it is basically marking arbitrary lines off on a linear view of history. However, for all that Kung has chosen this obvious way of reviewing Christianity he has done it well. There is detail and debate in Kung's discussions.<br />Read, think, and question. That is how this book should be approached.	2001-11-05
US	49774379	R3K7POQTIXAJU2	0299119645	247596987	The American Evasion of Philosophy: A Genealogy of Pragmatism (Wisconsin Project on American Writers)	Books	2	38	71	N	N	Disappointing	AS a reader intimately interested in pragmatism I came to this book in anticipated expectancy. Unfortunately Cornel West has managed to write something I could scarcely credit: a book which makes pragmatism and pragmatists seem turgid and boring. I think this is primarily because West's own interests seem always to be overpowering his descriptions of the pragmatists he is writing about. West wants to write a manifesto but he has dressed it up as a genealogy. Unfortunately for this reader the clothes don't fit properly and what is presented seems vaguely ridiculous. I don't mean to be rude. Apparently in the States West is something of an intellectual celebrity who writes on matters of race and religion. In my own locality West is unknown and his agenda seems just as foreign. His idea of pragmatism as &quot;cultural criticism&quot; is the one bright spark in this book that I will take away from it. However, as his interests and mine are doomed to be forever different the lasting impression this book leaves is one of a writer over-intellectualising what is meant to be a philosophy of plain common-sense. Sorry Cornel, we just didn't hit it off.	2001-10-20
US	49774379	R1KOC84Q275UW4	0385469934	765116934	3: A Marginal Jew, Volume Three: Rethinking the Historical Jesus (Marginal Jew Rethinking the Historical Jesus)	Books	3	50	88	N	N	Saintly or Sinister?	A Marginal Jew, volume 3! Another 650 pages to digest in John Meier's fated-to-be standard treatment of the historical Jesus. Those familiar with volumes 1 and 2 know what to expect. Thorough discussion of the issues, lots of footnotes and conclusions which aren't too surprising or too shocking. Are we being cynical if we suggest that Meier is out to give the definitive defense of a broadly traditional Jesus? Whether we are or not that is what his &quot;Marginal Jew&quot; project is delivering.<br />But to volume 3 in particular. One immediate point is that his publishers have gone and messed up the colour scheme. Volumes 1 and 2 had the logos and the commissioned pictures all lined up and coordinated. Now the fonts change and some medieval picture is slapped on the front. This doesn't look good on the shelf guys!<br />We move inside and get the expected précis of what has gone before and the regurgitation of what Meier is up to: strictly historical scholarship. The book is supposed to cover Jesus' &quot;companions and competitors&quot;. But I have issues. The most abiding of these is the what can only be polemical exclusion of any group that is non-Jewish. Now I'm all for a Jewish Jesus. I support Meier's understanding of Jesus as an eschatological figure in the Jewish prophetic tradition. But come on John! Your polemics against your opponents have gone to far! In your desire to present a Jewish Jesus you've now set him in a context which is not just Jewish but ONLY Jewish. Is that your &quot;unbiased history&quot;? Is your historical presentation meant to suggest that Jesus is a Jew among Jews and without any wider context, any wider &quot;competitor&quot; or &quot;companion&quot;? The interested reader can only read this volume as a deliberate rebuff to John Dominic Crossan's &quot;Jewish Mediterranean Peasant&quot;.<br />That said, the book is once more thoroughly professional. Meier provides reams of material and is a reliable guide. I certainly recommend thebook. No person interested in current historical Jesus scholarship can be without it and be credible. But I wonder if Meier himself is being credible. Its not so much what he writes about as what he doesn't. This is solid traditional scholarship. But is that good or bad?	2001-10-20
US	49774379	R3MDBUZ7EDMRQ9	0374199639	64824201	The Metaphysical Club : A Story of Ideas in America	Books	5	12	13	N	N	Should Become a Standard Work on Pragmatism	For a short while in 1872 there was a &quot;Metaphysical Club&quot; at Harvard (a kind of talking shop for ideas). It included Charles Sanders Peirce, a scientist interested in logic, William James, a trained medic who would write a founding treatise of modern psychology, Chauncey Wright, the so-called &quot;Cambridge Socrates&quot;, an inveterate conversationalist with a bent for the virtues of common-sense, and Oliver Wendell Holmes, a man shot three times in the Civil War and now making his way in the field of the Law. This club met for only a few months of that year and, by all accounts, we cannot be sure that any or all of these individuals attended that often; and yet it becomes for Menand in this book the totem by which the birth of Pragmatism is announced.<br />The book itself focuses on four individuals: Oliver Wendell Holmes, Charles Peirce, William James and a man of a half generation later, John Dewey (who knew of Peirce and James without being intimately connected with them personally). We are given a historical presentation of the ideas of these individuals which encompasses both a history of their ideas and the socio-political context of their time and place with its intellectual background to boot (late 19th century America). This itself was a period of socio-cultural plurality in which, in a sense, a country was looking to define itself (one thinks of the example of Eugene Debs and the Pullman Strike of 1894 as an example in the field of workers' rights or of the steady stream of immigrants which were, even as the pragmatists whiled away their time, steadily streaming in from many corners of the globe.). What Menand presents us with, put simply, is the pragmatist development of the idea that the human being is subject to evolution. The human being, so the pragmatist would assert in his or her Darwinian-influenced way, is prey to the contingency which is part of the fabric of the Universe. That said, as a thinking being the human being uses ideas instrumentally as s/he adjusts to the conditions of life. But this instrumentalism is social, not individual (a point Dewey and his accomplice George Herbert Mead would insist on) for it is the social being which is the given and the individual which is an abstraction. As an account of thinking, Menand suggests, the Pragmatists present the thesis that &quot;ideas [are] always soaked through by the personal and social situations in which we find them&quot; (p. xii). Philosophically put, the Pragmatists are anti-foundationalists.<br />Menand finds in this account of pragmatist origins heros (and, in Jane Addams, a heroine) of tolerance and democracy. His account of the individual pragmatists here is of solid and sound intellectual pioneers (and done thoroughly, but engagingly so). A particular favourite of mine is the example of Nicholas St. John Green and his belief in beliefs as &quot;that upon which a man is prepared to act&quot; (p. 225). Fortunately for Green, Peirce gets a hold of this belief, a belief which checks out with Peirce and Wendell Holmes as the idea that beliefs are &quot;bets&quot;, and, with suitable scientific and philosophical presentation, he calls his fledgling belief &quot;pragmatism&quot;. Fortunately for Peirce (though not in his own estimation!) this was picked up by William James who popularised the notion (in a naturalising and humanising way) and expanded upon it into areas of truth, experience and consciousness. Fortunately for America it was seized upon by John Dewey who took its pluralist and developmental implicitnesses and developed a theory and practice of education and democracy in its spirit which still has effects in America today through such bodies as the ACLU (which he was instrumental in initiating) and the ideas of progressive education (which he was THE pioneer of). <br />Thus, in &quot;The Metaphysical Club&quot; Menand presents the life, thoughts and times of the Pragmatists, anti-philosophers who take a developmental and experimental attitude towards beliefs and use that attitude in their own fields of endeavour in order to promote the causes of democracy, self-responsibility and contingency. Menand presents an engaging intellectual history which persuades and beguiles as it details the historical events which brought pragmatism to birth. He has written a very good book indeed and is partial in favour of the pragmatists without being partisan about them. His book is also timely for the issues that the pragmatists were concerned with, and the common-sense approach to life's issues that they modelled, are abidingly, and today yet again, relevant to us all.	2001-10-20
US	49774379	R1XUJ3DXTY9CQC	1573921386	104309066	The Meaning of Truth (Great Books in Philosophy)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Intellectual Fun	In 1907 William James published a book of his recently delivered lectures called &quot;Pragmatism&quot; in which he detailed the links he found betwen the pragmatic frame of mind and the philosophical situation of his time. They caused a storm of controversy. Most particularly James's pragmatic musings on &quot;truth&quot; went down, with some, like a lead balloon. With &quot;The Meaning of Truth&quot; James meant to buttress his claims about truth and repel the barbs of his rationalistic enemies.<br />The key essay in the book in many ways is the third &quot;Humanism and Truth&quot;. &quot;Humanism&quot; is James's preferred name for pragmatism. Here James lays out his thesis on truth as being a matter of continuity of experience and of useful relations with things. James always resisted the notion, commonly ascribed to many so-called pragmatists and relativists, that they &quot;make it all up&quot;. Here James suggests that experience as a control is no mere fancy. James claimed to be constrained in his theorising about truth and constrained by the world that is empirically there all around us.<br />Read this book if you want a statement of James's position on truth or if you want pragmatist insights into the same topic. Or read it for plain intellectual fun. Its arguments are deceptively simple and particularly persuasive.	2001-10-20
US	49774379	RYY8TPB9L94D1	0300068182	149769834	The Postmodern Bible	Books	5	26	26	N	N	A Must	The Postmodern Bible provides what is as close as anyone will ever get to a contemporary handbook on &quot;postmodern&quot; methods of approaching, reading, using and interpreting the Bible. One might ask why such a book is needed. I would reply that this book is needed because it implicates the readers of the Bible in the matters it wishes to bring to bear in biblical study. This book attempts to show (in my estimation) that reading the Bible is a social act, a personal act, a political act and a cultural act. And this book preaches what it practices for it is written by a self-styled &quot;Bible and Culture Collective&quot;, a group of scholarly &quot;young turks&quot; no less, who amply demonstrate that projects worked on together need not end up being mish-mashes of the wants and desires of those composing them. <br />This book has both direction and drive. In seven compact yet thorough discussions we are introduced, in theory and practice, to seven contemporary approaches to the practice of biblical reading. Many, if not all, of these (reader-response criticism, poststructuralism, feminist and womanist criticism) are hardly novel outside of the biblical field but then that seems the point of this book; that is, to attempt (or continue to attempt) to intergrate biblical studies ever more closely with, or into, literary studies and cultural studies. This seems the pervasive agenda of this book. <br />I must admit that I have an interest in reviewing this book, however. I was taught for three years as an undergraduate by one of the &quot;Bible and Culture Collective&quot;, Stephen D. Moore. I can confirm that the Collective, if Moore be an example, do indeed practice what they preach in this book. I have to say it sets the Bible on fire in new and exciting ways. If you want to engage the Bible from some new angles or just want to get up date and clear in your mind on contemporary methods of biblical interpretation then get this book. It has no serious challengersin its field to date.	2001-10-14
US	49774379	R1KUUE778ATYXA	0300084579	189044028	From Jesus to Christ: The Origins of the New Testament Images of Christ, Second Edition	Books	5	41	45	N	N	Typical Fredriksen: Sane and Erudite	Before &quot;Jesus of Nazareth: King of the Jews&quot; there was &quot;From Jesus to Christ&quot;. In fact, Paula Fredriksen wrote this book 11 years previously to her recently acclaimed tome. This book is the more &quot;theological&quot; of the two, being a discussion of the New Testament portraits of Jesus whereas her more recent book is a study of the historical Jesus. This is not the latter whilst simultaneously being a useful way to get into it. Thus the sequence of Fredriksen's books is understandable.<br />Fredriksen is a responsible scholar. She has a smooth and erudite manner which shows a sharp and attentive grasp of her subject. This book shows a clear and concise understanding of the Greco-Roman world and the Jewish world alike as the background to the New Testament. Her discussions of Paul and the Gospels, while not assauging the reader's questions, provide meaty treatments which repay reading. For readers who have her recent book this is the perfect companion to it. For readers who want a solid exposition of the New Testament world and the way the New Testament writers relate their images of Jesus, this is the perfect book for that too, providing simple, yet never simplistic, readings of the images of Jesus provided by the Gospels and Paul.	2001-03-27
US	49774379	R3MA7F7WTM3DKU	0800632419	564033798	Jesus the Sage: The Pilgrimage of Wisdom	Books	3	8	14	N	N	This book says more about Wisdom than it does about Jesus	This book by Ben Witherington III is a useful study of the Jewish semi-divine, semi-spiritual concept of Wisdom which, at its greatest, was conceived of as a hypostatization of God himself. But I'm not at all sure that it tells us anything at all about Jesus. The best Witherington could claim, it seems to me, is that this book relates the Jewish concept of Wisdom TO Jesus. And as a study with that aim it does the job fairly well. It covers vast ground, from Proverbs and Ecclesiastes from the Hebrew Bible, through the extracanonical Jewish texts of Ben Sira and that known as the Wisdom of Solomon, and on to New Testment Wisdom in the shape of Q, James and the Gospels of Matthew and John (not forgetting Paul of course!). Yet only chapter 4 is really anything to do with Jesus himself. Now maybe I am being harsh, maybe that's not what this book is meant to be about and maybe I'm looking for (a Jesus of) history when Witherington wants to be more theological, relating Wisdom in its various historical guises and then addressing the &quot;Sage Jesus&quot; he sees to that. But this book is not about Jesus as an historical person. It is a theology of Wisdom. As such, it is a useful book to have if one is interested by such things. It is not overly useful if one wants a study of Jesus as an historical person.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-03-27
US	49774379	R1T69G0NTJQNSF	0830815449	820975061	The Jesus Quest: The Third Search for the Jew of Nazareth	Books	3	15	26	N	N	A conservative critique	Ben Witherington III's &quot;The Jesus Quest&quot; is a conservative appraisal of recent studies into the historical Jesus up to 1995. It covers many of today's most well known historical Jesus scholars (Crossan, Sanders, Vermes, Wright, Meier, Borg) and some not so well-known (Maurice Casey, Markus Bockmuehl and R. David Kaylor). It also covers the Jesus Seminar (given a chapter all to itself). What this latter point tells me is that Witherington has polemic in store (at least for his opponents). So, firstly, I would say that this book is being rhetorical and political: it wants to stake out ground and set terms, aiming to count in or out of court various procedures and arguments about the historical Jesus. A further thing one picks up from the way the book is laid out (usually two or three scholars are grouped together under a single heading, such as Vermes and Borg under the heading &quot;Jesus, Man of the Spirit&quot;) is that this way of laying out the book's contents is not really very effective. Its all too compressed and the discussions are inevitably curtailed just when you are getting interested. Further, common topics for groups of scholars don't usually work because the headings don't fit. Borg's Jesus is somewhat more than a &quot;Man of the Spirit&quot; (and Schussler Fiorenza's, detailed later in the book, is somewhat more than a &quot;sage&quot;, in context at least).<br />When Witherington is addressing his opponents (the Jesus Seminar, Crossan and Burton Mack especially) he comes across as hard and ultra critical. One would imagine that these scholars are beyond redemption. Here we have a measure of a &quot;Yes, but&quot; approach such that the reader begins to wonder if the author wants us to find such scholars' constructions of Jesus false and misleading at the cost of asking catalogues of petty questions (as he does with Crossan, for example). I think Witherington could have been more even handed here (although he has every right to find fault where he will. Its just that readers may take a different point of view and find against the author). Crossan, after all, has written books that no historical Jesus scholar can ignore.<br />I found this book a tad simplistic. It resorted to polarisation too much when it could have been more nuanced and synthetic, looking to build what is good in all studies into a creative whole. But Witherington has a taken a polemical tack instead. Certainly, this book should at least be read alongside Marcus Borg's &quot;Jesus in Contemporary Scholarship&quot; because that will provide the balance this book needs. Maybe Witherington should settle for less polemic next time and concentrate on providing more constructive analysis.	2001-03-27
US	49774379	R1NY4U3RC1NQDX	0674910125	466341455	The Trouble with Principle	Books	5	3	6	N	N	The Principles of Causing Trouble	In the pragmatist tradition of William James (and initiated, as Fish is never slow to remind us, by Protagoras), Stanley Fish renews his attack on the principled, the products of Liberalism, that current cultural version of the solid ground under our feet. In one sense, this book by Fish is just arguing against such as these in ways which are supremely effective. However, to stop here is to get Fish wrong and also to make him much too monotone in his motives. For which &quot;polemicist&quot; or &quot;rhetorician&quot; would remove the ground from under his own feet too? <br />For, of course, it is Fish's argument throughout this book that &quot;the ground under our feet&quot; is both real and also thoroughly political with principles as the retrospective reasons we always (situatedly) bring to bear when persuasion is the name of the game (which is usually). We are hostages to our practices and all we can do is persuade, persuade, persuade by the use of our in place standards these practices have provided us with. The recourse to &quot;principle&quot; is just the latest move in this game. So Fish (as much as he matches up to his own words) is NOT removing his OWN grounds but only the grounds of those who think they need something else. (Strictly speaking, Fish claims to remove nothing but, rather, to announce the evanescence of the Liberal cognitive land.) Fish tells us that &quot;the ordinary resources that come along with your situation, education and personal history are both all you have and all you need&quot; (from the opening page of the wonderfully titled 16th chapter, &quot;Truth and Toilets&quot;). Thus, Fish is the supporter of reasons and not of Reason (&quot;there is no such thing as reason apart from its appearance in historical circumstances&quot;) and this makes him a radical contextualist.<br />Now some reviewers find this thesis unconvincing or somehow unintellectual, lacking in cognitive power. Some can't let go of absolutes and so, no matter how much they like the fact that Fish has a pop at some people who's views they don't share, they can't finally stand beside him. I say that this is a common sense approach to public discourse and to political society and that it provides all that we need. <br />It is a point that Fish's critics often miss that he is not actually in the game of removing very much at all from the table. Rather, he is taking it away, reconfiguring it, and then placing it firmly back on that very same table. For example, when he writes in &quot;Vicki Frost Objects&quot; that &quot;exposure is indoctrination&quot; (and so the Liberal idea of free speech abrogates the rights of some to their own freedoms [the right not to be indoctrinated] by allowing the freedoms of others [the right to expose students to their own valued and situated ideas]) isn't this just a pretty obvious truth? People can only, and are more likely to, believe that which they have been exposed to (and how much more so if you are a student in a school system which teaches and reinforces things over and over again as truth so exposing you both to a given framework and the truths which take their places as truths exactly within that very framework?) The (hopefully obvious) point here is exactly that frameworks can and will be different and that this is both the point at issue and the thing which has no overarching position from which to view or judge between said frameworks. Surely, then, the case to make here (the more than common-sense one) is NOT Fish's case but rather that case which would claim a universal or abstract validity? (Fish's point, argued in my words, now becomes that &quot;common-sense&quot; is always what public debate, politics, is about. If you have &quot;common-sense&quot; on your side then the battle is going your way.)<br />For it is the truth that &quot;we can't all just get along&quot;. Fish tells us why. We are all situated human beings with past histories and present contexts which will lead to conflicts of interest and of desire. The recourse to the Liberal land of cognitive absolutes is bankrupt to deal with this exactly because it is never, in its practice, that which it claims in its theory (something from which nothing follows for Fish exactly because it NOT situated in a practical context). When not in practice it is not in practice! So I read Fish as &quot;Mr Common-sense Account of Necessarily Situated Human Behaviour&quot; and I think this book is a worthy successor to &quot;There's No Such Thing As Free Speech - And Its A Good Thing Too!&quot;. But did I persuade you?<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-03-18
US	49774379	R2R80O6PHR0LGK	156563246X	464481120	Q and the History of Early Christianity: Studies on Q	Books	4	26	27	N	N	A Voice for an Eschatological Q	Christopher Tuckett will be well known to academics who specialize in studying the New Testament and especially those who specialize in studying Q, that hypothetical source behind the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. What Tuckett presents here is a monograph examining the status of Q and a number of its key themes - at least as Tuckett reads the evidence. <br />Clearly Tuckett believes that Q existed even if there is no actual manuscript evidence for it; a 40 page opening chapter tells us why he thinks so. Following a further essay on how Q has been treated by its scholarly &quot;discoverers&quot; and another on Q's &quot;nature&quot;, we are into 10 chapters each concentrating on a topic pertinent to the hypothesised textual contents of Q from John the Baptist (Q is the most important witness to him if Q was the Matthean and Lukan source for him) to &quot;Wisdom in Q&quot; and &quot;Q and Israel&quot;. The tone of these chapters is scholarly and serious. The book is closely argued and readers are expected to be cognizant of scholarly protocols and discussions. The book has no conceivable religious agenda.<br />All that said I found the book to be excellent, the conclusions balanced and the evidence exhibited with all due care and attention. A valuable addition to scholarship on Q.	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R3PGWDCVE1HFKZ	0679775447	805999823	Pragmatism: A Reader	Books	5	75	80	N	N	Eye-openingly Good!	This book is astounding! It manages to accomplish in around 500 pages the twin tasks of giving a functional outline of the rise and rise of pragmatic thought and also to give examples, old and new, of that same pragmatic thought. The three more well-known &quot;founders&quot; (popularisers) of this philosophical method slash attitude are here in C.S. Peirce, William James and John Dewey along with an interesting selection of more modern pragmatists, such as Richard Rorty (of course!), Cornel West and Hilary Putnam. One name that is missing from the contemporary selection is Stanley Fish, but since he seems to aim his sights indiscriminately he may be thought to be rather roguish for this sane and coherent selection of writings that the editor, Louis Menand, has pulled together. <br />In his introductory piece Menand charts Pragmatism's birth in the universities of north eastern America in the second half of the nineteenth century and points up some of its distinctives (of which there are very few and deliberately so). This piece is worth the price of the book itself for its clarity, insight and authority. The choices Menand makes in presenting the pragmatic thinkers will always be one of judgment and decision (Are the two writings he chooses from Richard Rorty's work, &quot;Philosophy as a Kind of Writing&quot; and &quot;Postmodernist Bourgeois Liberalism&quot; really more appropriate to this collection? I would choose others.) and we may quibble with one or two and suggest others but Menand has made his choices and given his rationale and we, as readers, can ask no more. What is served up is insightful and powerful (when taken together) as an example of pragmatic thoughts in practice and, as such, demonstrates the oft written thought of William James that Pragmatism &quot;does not stand for any special results. It is a method only.&quot; James means that pragmatists don't have to agree to be pragmatic for being pragmatic is &quot;trac[ing] out in the imagination the conceivable practical consequences.....of the affirmation or denial&quot; (C.S. Peirce) of whatever belief, truth or proposal you have in mind. Thus, we realise that Pragmatism as a philosophy is at least contextual, subjective and case by case. As a reader in Pragmatism this book does a superb job of demonstrating this and Menand, as editor, is to be congratulated. Much recommended.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R1AAGA6R755EWN	080062601X	712142921	Excavating Q: The History and Setting of the Sayings Gospel	Books	4	41	41	N	N	One for the serious student only	If there were a contest to find the top scholar on Q today (however we might configure that contest), then John S Kloppenborg Verbin might well come out the champion. His thesis on Q is often found to be the thesis of choice for many scholars (particular those of North American or Jesus Seminar hue). Here we are presented with a prodigious book split into two parts, broadly historical and broadly ideological, about Q, the hypothetical (and so far completely non-material) source behind the Gospels of Matthew and Luke. I imagine that if you aren't prepared to make that scholarly jump to believe in Q then you won't be too interested in reading this book.<br />I basically liked this book - but then I am a graduate student in biblical studies and so already committed to being interested in technical studies about obscure &quot;data&quot; which fit into the narrow specialisms of today's biblical academy. What I'm saying is that this book will not have broad appeal since its VERY technical. That said, the discussions, particularly the ones on &quot;The Q document and the Q people&quot; and &quot;Reading Q in the Galilee&quot; I found to be stimulating explorations into the possible as regards Q and the sources for the sayings of Jesus. Perhaps that's all that such discussions can hope to be. Certainly any taking of this book's contents for the final word on the subject should be shelved: tomorrow will bring newer conclusions.<br />One point I really liked from this book was its emphasis and concentration on the social location of both Q's interpreters and also the writers/collaters and readers of the Q document itself. This &quot;social&quot; criticism of the Bible has been going on for a while now and this book continues that tradition admirably in exploring the links between Q and the Greco-Roman Cynics hypothesized of Galilee. Such questions are worthy of study and essential to an understanding of Q (should the hypothesis ever become so genuinely held that such theoriesattain more than their current provisional status). <br />In his introduction to the book the author writes that his offering is to be about Q &quot;and the difference its existence makes&quot;. I think the offering of hypotheses like the ones this book offers about Q are valuable talking points and this book is another valuable addition to debates about Q.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R1MV14O47Q4GIJ	0785809015	195114696	The Essential Jesus: Original Sayings and Earliest Images	Books	3	16	22	N	N	strange book	Its a weird one, this book. Some sayings of Jesus, strained and purified by the Crossan mind, written down, one to a page, and interspersed with ancient artwork. Historical notes to the texts and an introductory essay complete the work. I suspect readers divide, oh so predictably and depressingly to this non-American, along partisan lines: the liberals love it and the conservatives hate it. Well, excuse me but hold on a minute!! Must we be so partisan? Haven't we got a minute or two for reflection and humility here? Of course Crossan's thesis as a historical thesis is subject to challenge - Crossan thinks this is true as much as anyone else (indeed, he challenges us to do better than him, historically speaking,  in his previous volume &quot;The Historical Jesus&quot; which is presumed reading for this book). But this book is rather different to a simple historical thesis - it invites reflection on (the? some?) sayings of Jesus. Now who, being interested in Jesus, can have a problem with that (bar those who can't see past their partisanship)?<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R1NNTCK248EZ5K	0195093836	665697428	There's No Such Thing As Free Speech: And It's a Good Thing, Too	Books	5	6	16	N	N	Stanley Fish is after you! Yes you!	Now, sitting comfortably? Are you a liberal or a conservative? Do you think your views, sane, rational, fair, unbiased or generally decent? Well what if I told you that you are a biased, interested, often irrational and double-dealing individual who rigs debates, fixes the meanings of discourses (and things) and generally configures things to your own advantage and your opponent's disadvantage? OK, you would disagree with me: BUT THAT IS EXACTLY WHAT STANLEY FISH IS SAYING ABOUT YOU!! He does this in a series of extraordinary essays attacking conservatives and liberals alike (though under the post-Enlightenment rubric of &quot;liberalism&quot; in general, that belief system shared by most modern, Western thinkers) for their slipperiness in debate and their use of fake and polemical principles, actually the products of politics (a noble because unavoidable category for Fish). Fish's aim in all this seems to be to drag everyone back to their contextual and historical time and place(s) and to do away with the notion that we can avoid this or retreat into our various cognitive, abstract and universalising hiding places. What is left is what we had before Fish started writing and what, according to Fish, we will always have: political debate, the opportunity to convince your peers that this way is better than that, that this conclusion is better than that one. But, after Fish, we won't be able to do this by appealing to principles anymore since he has exposed them all as partisan and political. So &quot;hoorah&quot; for Stanley Fish's eye opening book, let's build a better world, and watch out, Stanley Fish is after you!<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R1LA5ZPRNRZZH	0486282708	809328044	Pragmatism (Philosophical Classics)	Books	5	31	36	N	N	Brilliant! Buy it! Read it! Live it! Think it!	The superlatives trip off my tongue when I think about this book. In it Harvard psychologist and philosopher Willaim James propounds the substance (not much) and import (massive!) of his philosophical method: pragmatism. He got this method from his lifelong friend Charles Sanders Peirce and it boils down, quite simply, to doing nothing which doesn't make a difference in terms of outcomes; what works is what matters. Not that this simplicity boils over into simplisticness. James is an astute operator and is aware of what criticism shall come his way. Thus, in this series of lectures he addresses all the realist, essentialist and foundationalist philosophers with their abstract, universal and idealistic arguments and demonstrates that it is the pragmatist who takes our obligations seriously. The pragmatist is guided by the experience of the senses and the working body of truth each person carries with them and these are no small trifles. The pragmatist is not one who is free to make anything up (contrast the external realist who can say anything and claim what they like since its beyond verification / falsification).<br />So read this classic piece of American philosophical writing and be entertained, educated and edified all in one go. It has changed my approach to life.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R27RGUH09JZFT8	0060616628	217861600	Jesus	Books	4	7	13	N	N	Not Revolutionary, Merely A Good Story	Ok, so this is a book about religion and we all know that there's no neutral when it comes to religion. But I want to cut through all the hype, bluster and nonsense. I am a single reader and this is my opinion about a book I read; no interest in audiences here since I just want to say what I think. And that is that this book tells a good story, one I find interesting and engaging. Being a distillation of Crossan's academic thesis &quot;The Historical Jesus&quot; from 1991 this leaves out the technical and background stuff and cuts to the chase. This improves the overall presentation and makes for a fast paced book which is sure about what it knows (or thinks it knows). Ok, so you disagree with what Crossan knows. Fine. What? You agree with him? Thats fine too. I want to say that this book reads well as a story about Jesus in which the writer imputes his own non-apocalyptic and egalitarian values and beliefs into the telling of the same. He can't be criticized for that though since its what EVERY writer does (reads the evidence, tells the story their way). Read this book as a story about Jesus, ponder it, and then go on to the next book about the historical Jesus.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R2O7TK773I4FYS	0830815651	351120669	Biblical Interpretation: Past & Present	Books	4	18	25	N	N	Thorough Scholarship	If you have any knowledge of the thorough-going Protestant (and Evangelical) tradition of scholarship you will know what I mean when I say that Gerald Bray's &quot;Biblical Interpretation: Past and Present&quot; conforms to those standards. Here we clearly have a hard-working scholar who painstakingly collects evidence, ploughs through sources and collates data. Bray has done that here in collecting together and collating a wide and varied mix of ways of interpreting the Bible from across the centuries after the birth of Christ.<br />The latter point on dating is important for this is a book with pastoral intent. Bray is a church member and writes for Christian readers. He seeks to offer practical help in reading and interpreting the Bible as much as he seeks to write a good and readable history of its interpretation. Further, since Bray is an evangelical Christian the text of his book shows evidence of this. The high view of the Bible, evidenced throughout the text, is ample demonstration of this.<br />Bray's method is chronological but then shades into idiosyncrasy (&quot;social trends in interpretation&quot;? All trends are social and especially with the Bible!). However, in each period/topic Bray gives a substantial orientation to what was/is going on (where the writer's own interests become more obvious the closer to the present we get), provides useful bibliographies (if occasionally biased to the evangelical or protestant), a list of interpreters from the time and/or place and a working example to show what the methods of biblical interpretation he details would look like in practice. This is, thus, a teacher writing and, if this book be ample evidence of that teacher's skills, not a bad one. I learnt from this book both about the history of biblical interpretation and about the practice of biblical interpretation. If you can put up with the odd evangelicalism then I think most other readers interested in biblical interpretation would too.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R27EBDCMGBEH0E	0394704371	572787164	The Will to Power	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Fragmented Genius	This collection from written fragments from the work of Friedrich Nietzsche, some later added into his own published works and some not (this book being published by others after his death), covers so much ground that it is hard to say what it is &quot;about&quot;. If pushed I would have to say that here Nietzsche, in his own typical and idiosyncratic way, wishes to damn the system (cultural, natural, philosophical, social, religious - all intermingling) and set up the pathway to his own private &quot;becoming&quot;. Nietzsche is an intensely personal writer (by which I mean he writes from his own life experience but also to the person, the individual) who, I believe, felt oppressed by the world around him which wanted him (he felt) to conform. This book may be seen as one way in which Nietzsche fights back, by damning the system by its own standards, revealing the fact that the system cannot stand if criticized but only if we don't ask questions, a conspiracy of silence which Nietzsche, in Zarathustran style (for Zarathustra IS Nietzsche) shatters. So, if you feel any sympathy with that interpretation of Nietzsche and of this book then read it. If you don't then still read it because its an insight you need to have.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-02-10
US	49774379	R4U1E6QWNM44S	0061316865	900157080	On Certainty (English and German Edition)	Books	5	6	10	N	N	Philosophy all philosophers should take note of	Here is a book written by an analytical philosopher which ends up leading to conclusions not all analytical philosophers would find themselves comfortable with. For, so my reading goes, it leads to contextualist and pragmatic points of view. It suggests that in the use of words and thoughts we have to take into account the context, the situation we find ourselves in at the time. It suggests that &quot;what stands fast for me&quot; (the groundings for what I say I think which themselves are ungrounded) affects (and is presupposed by) what I say. This rocks the foundations of some thinkers, or rather, it tunnels underneath their arguments and gives (implicit and certainly unintended) support to many of today's postmodern thinkers who want to make as much as they can out of the idea of &quot;social constructionism&quot;. This is the idea that what's real is always subject to contingent linguistic description, that when we say that something is real we also say, to be crude and vulgar, that we made it that way too; that is, that we are saying real things are things which fulfil our human rules for what's real.<br />And Wittgenstein does this with all the rigour and all the detail that he is known for. After all, he was a star pupil of Betrand Russell and he did write the minutely logical &quot;Tractatus Logico-Philosophicus&quot;. That Wittgenstein is still here and his logical powers have led to rather different conclusions than they did in his early thinking, I think better ones. This book is going to ask you exactly what you mean when you say that you &quot;know&quot; something, anything at all. Its going to ask you what you mean by certainty. And its going to ask you to justify any claim to knowledge that you make and situate it coherently, sensibly and logically. This can only be to the reader's benefit.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2001-01-21
US	49774379	R2GVG66Y0NK52C	0060608765	989291643	Meaning of Jesus, The	Books	4	15	18	N	N	THE meaning of Jesus?	Let me counteract my title straightaway by saying that I liked this book. My problem with it comes from the fact that, seemingly, we are set on a quest to find the one, true meaning of Jesus by the back and forth dialogue these two scholars have here. And yet there are significant points of difference between even these two irenic and knowledgable scholars. One such is that Wright believes in an eschatological, even apocalyptic, figure of world-shattering significance while Borg denies that Jesus had or has these interests at heart. So maybe the title needs interpreting as &quot;The Meaning of Jesus For Me&quot;?<br />But I want to praise this book more than I want to criticize it. The two scholars involved are right at the heart of the current debates orbiting around the figure of Jesus. They are also a couple of the more theologically knowledgeable of those participants even though one leans more left and one more right. These are sane and usually reliable guides; if Wright wants to be more traditionally &quot;supernatural&quot; and Borg more &quot;naturalistic&quot; from time to time that is fine for we know we don't have a couple of extremists on our hands. Primarily, Borg and Wright here make you think. Their nuanced difference makes you choose - either one or the other or something else: books should do that on so-called &quot;factual&quot; subject matter. This one does. <br />To the detail. The book has 16 chapters set out in 7 different parts and ranges from subjects properly to do with &quot;the Historical Jesus&quot; to more &quot;theological&quot; subjects to ones more specifically to do with &quot;the Christian life&quot;. It is aimed at a popular audience. I figure that this book is rather too &quot;Christianized&quot; to find much favour with skeptics, atheists or people of other faiths and - after all - don't they have a say in &quot;the meaning of Jesus&quot;? So read this book to learn what two Christian scholars say about Jesus. Within the confinesthat presents this book is as good as any you'll probably ever come across.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2000-12-17
US	49774379	R29RACN6HIP5QE	0631209824	663667100	Rorty and His Critics	Books	4	68	72	N	N	Philosophers Challenge Rortification	Take the single most entertaining and engaging philosopher that the academy can today boast, add a few colleagues who have pointed (and sometimes passionate) arguments to pursue with him and serve at the hands of one of his protégés - and you have Rorty and His Critics edited by Robert B Brandom.<br />This book is very stimulating, enormously erudite and not a little complicated. Here Rorty is hauled over the hot coals and its his task to defend himself against (and, occasionally, to further expedite) the arguments of his interlocutors; these figures include such heavyweights as Habermas, Davidson, Dennett, and Jacques Bouveresse. They argue and debate back and forth over various things that the interlocutors have at issue with Rorty. These include the status of &quot;truth&quot; as against &quot;justification before ones peers&quot;, the supposed inescapability from &quot;reality&quot; and, in the best piece from the book, written by Bjorn Ramberg, what a &quot;Post-Ontological Philosophy of Mind&quot; might be and, indeed, might lead to. In response to this latter piece Rorty seems to bend his pragmatic line just a bit closer to the realist one in what I hope might become a classic quote of his: &quot;What is true in pragmatism is that what you talk about depends not on what is real but on what it pays you to talk about. What is true in realism is that most of what you talk about you get right.&quot; The book begins with a helpful introduction by the editor (a former graduate student supervised by Rorty with his own chapter engaging Rorty in the book as well) and a paper by Rorty which argues that justification is more useful than &quot;truth&quot; since at least you can recognise the former when you have it (and what you can't recognise when you have it is useless anyway).<br />The collection of questions as arguments put to Rorty and his responses seems, to me, to make Rorty work at his thinking. It makes him explicate and also explain his pragmatic turn of thought in response to a new set of papers and I, for one, am thankful for that. The book is hard going. Those not used to philosophical debate or microscopically logical argument where you can trap your opponent in seeming errors which undercut her thesis are going to find themselves quickly caught up in something which seems to be overpowering them. This is a book that should be read at leisure, poured over, taken in deeply and mused upon. It will require not a little effort. At the end of the process Rorty still does not think that there is a &quot;Reality&quot; out there for us to get right &quot;Because there are no norms for talking about it&quot;. But I, for one, am glad that I have had the opportunity to read this book and it has made me sharpen up my own thinking too.<br />PoSTmodERnFoOL	2000-12-16
US	49774379	R2L1UV3BADGHD8	0060655879	694239700	The Complete Gospels : Annotated Scholars Version (Revised & expanded)	Books	3	27	41	N	N	A Collection of Gospels - What's All the Fuss About?	What a mixture of feelings I have about this book. It is clearly polemical in intent; but it is also useful, bringing together so many Gospels in one place. It speaks in a language (supposedly more today's language) that I don't speak - but then I don't come from North America. What does this say about the Jesus Seminar and its relevance? It provides useful cross-referencing between intra and extra cannonical Gospel texts. But let me cut to the chase. I don't want to say &quot;This is from the Jesus Seminar and they are biased, secular scholars with their own anti-evangelical agenda&quot;. This may or may not be true. Either way, the producing of texts which facilitate greater inquiry into their contents is always to be welcomed if it is done with integrity and promotes sane discussion. &quot;The Complete Gospels&quot; is a book I use and which enables me, as a graduate student, to take part in the debates about the historical Jesus and I would recommend it for this use. I can't claim it gives me any great(er) spiritual insight nor can I claim that it offers anything other than very basic (and somewhat selective, but then who isn't?) &quot;cameo essays&quot; about the texts contained and one or two related topics (i.e. the Synoptic problem). I would expect any reader, as with any other book, to have access to other works on similar topics from which to make an educated choice. This book does its job basically and, within those parameters, well. It isn't the oracle and neither is it the devil in disguise.	2000-12-03
US	49774379	R3CCL4N1QQVFL7	1573927589	314669665	Deconstructing Jesus	Books	2	17	52	N	N	Frozen Stir-Fry Served Up Yet Again	&quot;Deconstructing Jesus&quot; presents, once more, the thesis that even if Jesus did exist, which no one can be sure about, what we can know about him is virtually nothing and useful for even less. Thus, historical Jesus scholars are little short of ventriloquists animating the inanimate or engaging in shadowplay. By a method of analogy utilizing various mythic paradigms, especially the Mythic Hero Archetype, and the extravagant use of intertextuality, Price wants to show that any specific is really just an example of the general. In effect, everything reduces down in the end and Jesus, in particular, reduces down to mythic categories &quot;without anything left over&quot;. Price, seemingly, can find no non-mythical information which might might leave a chink of light by which to describe Jesus as &quot;historical&quot; rather than &quot;historicized&quot;. To support him, various theories previously presented, from the &quot;diversity of Christianity&quot; theory of Walter Bauer to the &quot;Christian cult&quot; theory of Burton Mack to the &quot;cruci-fiction speculations&quot; of John Dominic Crossan, etc, are represented and exceeded cheerfully by Price as he aims to present a cogent case for extreme skepticism towards the historical Jesus. We may note here this is not so much &quot;Deconstructing Jesus&quot; as deconstructing Jesuses. (There is no exploration of how historical figures might look WHEN mythicised for example and how this might compare with the presentations of Jesus and what this comparison might demonstrate or mean. Similarly, we might ask Price where we may find non-mythicised characters from the past analogous to Jesus.) But we should not let his presentation of multiple sources and numerous apparently analogous stories deter us from realising that &quot;you get what you see&quot;. The presentation of evidence has already within it the argument that what is presented IS evidence for something. Price doesn't get round that and, in his own way, simply argues for skepticism towards the historical Jesus which is fine if you want to do it. But I don't. If you aren't convinced by Burton Mack or John Dominic Crossan then you won't be convinced by Price and &quot;Deconstructing Jesus&quot; either. Maybe that's a good thing.	2000-12-03
US	49774379	R2R5RRTEJ1DPBA	0060616601	838932953	The Birth of Christianity : Discovering What Happened in the Years Immediately After the Execution of Jesus	Books	4	17	19	N	N	Stimulating but Historically Unconvincing	In this book John Dominic Crossan continues with his&quot;Jewish Cynic Jesus&quot; thesis and attempts to extend thesupport for this thesis by digging behind the Synoptic Gospels andanalysing the &quot;Common Sayings Tradition&quot; he discoversthere. This latter &quot;tradition&quot; turns out to be, primarily, amix of Gospel of Thomas and Q sayings although there are someinteresting appendices to the rear of the book which include Synopticand other references in addition. Thus, Crossan is once more taking atrajectory approach to Jesus and Christian origins.<br />This book is, ofcourse, based upon his former tour de force, &quot;The HistoricalJesus: The Life of a Meditteranean Jewish Peasant&quot;. How theprospective reader of this book regards that book will largelydetermine their attitude here. Crossan has not had any Damascusexperience since 1991 and he is still plugging away at the same ideasand with the same tools. He has added one or two theories to hisarmoury (for example, taking onboard Stephen Patterson's thesis thatthe Gospel of Thomas is largely independent of the Synoptic Gospelsand early from Patterson's 1993 book &quot;The Gospel of Thomas andJesus&quot;) but he is still noticably &quot;Crossan&quot;. <br />Simplyput, Crossan's thesis here is that the best possible historicalmethodology we can come up with (i.e. his!) demonstrates to us thatJesus was a believer in &quot;ethical eschatology&quot; and that,thus, he promoted a &quot;kingdom of God&quot; which was temporallypresent and physically demonstrated by the actions of healing andcoummunal eating among the poor, the outcasts and the marginal inPalestinian society. In historical context, this made Jesus and hisfollowers a counter-cultural movement (might one cynically suggestthat it also made it a &quot;politically correct&quot; movement?). ForCrossan, Jesus did not believe in or promote apocalyptic endings tothe world nor did he regard himself as an apocalyptic &quot;Son ofMan&quot; or, it seems,anything special in particulareither. Further, Jesus was of the peasant &quot;artisan&quot; class,something which didn't make him analogous to a present day middleclass carpenter, but, rather, made him a landless peasant, in manyrespects the lowest of the low. Crossan utilizes as manysocial-scientific tools as he can access to attempt to demonstratethese points.<br />All this theorizing about Jesus takes place within aclearly delineated theological context: Crossan calls this thedifference between sarcophobic and sarcophilic Christianity, thatwhich finds Jesus in flesh something to be mitigated and that whichfinds it something to be embraced. This pans out to Crossan's thesisthat &quot;the divine meaning of life is incarnated in a certain humanway of living&quot;. It gives him leeway to be less than enthusiasticwhen it comes to traditional Christian beliefs like the bodilyresurrection of Jesus after his crucifixion by transferring thisphenomenon to embodied belief in the historical Jesus bybelievers. Readers will pay their money and take their choice on thatone.  The point to note is Crossan's theological engagement.<br />Like somany of Crossan's books, I found this one engaging and interestingwithout being convincing. Crossan, for me, is one of those writers whobrings ideas to mind even though you find yourself disagreeing withhim the majority of the time. My own belief is that he makes thefundamental wrong turn when he seeks to avoid what he calls&quot;apocalyptic eschatology&quot; - I think for his own personal,ethical reasons. Readers should remember that our ethics and Jesus'own beliefs and motivations are allowed to be different and that theethicality of &quot;apocalypticism&quot; is a different question fromthat of asking whether Jesus, like John the Baptist before him and theearly Christians after him, held to it himself.  Crossan confusesthese, I believe, and this choice will always skew his results.	2000-12-03
US	49774379	R1GHB0POMZ702U	0800626826	496431751	Jesus and the Victory of God (Christian Origins and the Question of God, Volume 2)	Books	4	161	177	N	N	Good British Common Sense!!	Is it coincidence that it falls to a British scholar, Tom Wright, to be, arguably, the major stumbling block in the way of an ever-active Jesus Seminar with its witty, aphorism-producing Jesus? British scholarship has always been more conservative than that produced in the States and this is shown here in Wright's argument for a Jesus who sees himself as a representative both of God and of Israel, one who is seen as releasing Israel from exile and the power of her enemies (spiritual and temporal) and &quot;reconstructing Israel around himself&quot;.<br />Wright's thesis, for all his conservatism, is both bold and distinctive. He holds to an &quot;eschatological&quot; Jesus, one who has a future aspect to his theology and also one who, in Crossan-like ways, has compassion for the poor and the outcast of Palestinian society in his acts of healing and eating. Wright though, in distinction from Crossan and the Jesus Seminar, is, it seems, looking to give an historical account of the historical Jesus which can dovetail nicely with a more traditional reading of the Synoptic Gospels and the New Testament more generally. In this book you will not find a plethora of references to either the Gospel of Thomas or to the Q Gospel. Instead, you will find historical argument, replete with numerous biblical and extra-biblical Jewish quotations and texts, which aims to build up a picture of a Jewish prophet and more than a prophet. This does not, in my opinion, spill over into worship or sycophancy but the argument is carefully pitched so as not to upturn too many applecarts. One might almost call it &quot;historical evangelism&quot; but I hope that by using that term readers wil not think that this book is either crassly evangelistic or proselytizing; it is neither. But Jesus is clearly here a hero of sorts and someone who, for the writer, answers questions of deep and meaningful significance which can only be understood by present readers within the matrix of Christianity (thoughWright goes out of his way to show Jesus off as a Jew in every sense of the word).<br />I really liked this book and valued its argument. I think Wright procedes along the correct line of interpretation to view Jesus as eschatological(in a future sense, though not simplistically so) and I think he argues correctly for a Jesus who saw himself connected both to the Jewish God and to Israel. I also think that Jesus fits into the paradigm of &quot;leadership prophet&quot; and I think that he had a distintive &quot;prophetic consciousness&quot;. So I think that on a number of things Wright is right. But the reason I would recommend this book is because it offers a coherent and cogent opposition to a nascent belief in the Jesus of the Jesus Seminar. That Jesus has many aspects which I would disagree with, and disagree with on historical grounds. This book critiques and causes damage to the arguments of the Jesus Seminar ON HISTORICAL GROUNDS and if that is where the battle takes place then Wright's book should be welcomed and read by all who have an interest.	2000-12-03
US	49774379	R1428OB4F5LDXR	0800631226	501262369	Historical Jesus: A Comprehensive Guide	Books	4	40	41	N	N	A Textbook For Studying the Historical Jesus	This book by the well-known German New Testament scholar and his research assistant aims at being a comprehensive textbook for studying the historical Jesus - and largely acheives that aim. This book is not short nor for the casual reader and anyone attempting to enter its portals must be prepared to be questioned by the text as much as expecting a thesis to be laid out before them. The book even shades into discussions of Easter and early Christology, thus transgressing recognised disciplinary boundaries in an ever more defined academic world.<br />It has to be said that this book is hard going. This is a million miles away from previous books by Theissen, particularly his &quot;The Shadow of the Galilean&quot;, which was narrative. Here we have dense argumentation, tables, questions and all the things we would expect to find in an academic textbook. I believe that this will (and maybe should) limit its readership. One interesting feature is the authors' decision to go with a &quot;Jesus as&quot; approach to its discussions. Thus, we have &quot;Jesus as poet&quot;, &quot;Jesus as healer&quot;, &quot;Jesus as prophet&quot; and &quot;Jesus as a charismatic&quot;, etc. Jesus is also seen as the &quot;founder of a cult&quot; and as a &quot;martyr&quot;. I would say that these designations meet with greater or lesser success - both in themselves and within the argumentation of this book. But the treatments here are thorough if not also totally convincing.<br />In short, this book is for the committed student most of all. The casual reader will have to struggle with technical background argumentation and ancient documentation. If they feel able and willing to do that then this book is worthy of their attention. It is a full and thorough discussion of the historical Jesus.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	R3A8SAHRYL8PTW	156338227X	628492497	Conflict, Holiness, and Politics in the Teachings of Jesus	Books	4	38	38	N	N	An Innovative and Groundbreaking Study	Let me say right off the bat that I disagree fundamentally with one assertion of Borg in this book: I believe Jesus was very much an eschatologically orientated and motivated figure in distinction to Borg who regards such beliefs as &quot;taken for granted&quot; and &quot;in need of reexamination&quot;. But that is just a difference in our interpretation of the Jesus traditions. Virtually everything else Marcus Borg writes in this study of the historical Jesus I regard as highly suggestive and very persuasive. It is one of the best books i have read which enables the modern reader to site Jesus in his first century Jewish environment. This, as Borg writes very lucidly, was a matter of resistance to Rome, Jewish holiness and purity and a matter of politics in the widest sense of that word. Things I find particularly useful in this study are Borg's concentration on compassion as Jesus' form of holiness, his existence as a &quot;spirit person&quot; and his discussion of the multiform existence of first century Judaism. Put simply, this book is a substantial attempt to ascertain what was behind the teaching and activity of Jesus in its political, social and cultural contexts which doesn't forget the necessary &quot;religious&quot; aspects to studying Jesus. That Borg is a member of the Jesus Seminar, those trashers of previous consensus and arch-publicists, might put some people off this book - but it shouldn't. Borg is the sensible face of that group and his conclusions are significantly different at several points. This book deserves to be read, mused upon and weighed due to its insight and judicious handling of the first century situation in which we find Jesus. Conclusions come and go but this study by Borg sets out an argument which most readers of the historical Jesus will need to address sooner or later.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	R1GGTWL77ESN0Y	0140144994	909937564	The Historical Figure of Jesus	Books	5	66	68	N	N	Jesus the Viceroy of God	E.P. Sanders is without doubt one of the most pre-eminent scholars of the New Testament and of historical, that is, Second Temple, Judaism alive today. His expertise and breadth of knowledge are acclaimed by all quarters of biblical scholarship as often as his work is seen in print, which is it to say that this is often. Particularly he has made key entries into the current round of the academic Quest of the historical Jesus. The first was with his 1985 book &quot;Jesus and Judaism&quot;, a technical and academic study in which Sanders outlined his position vis-a-vis Jesus as an historical personage about whom we could know a number of things with a substantial degree of certainty. Amongst these were that Jesus was a Galilean who preached and healed, that he confined his activity to Israel and that he was baptised by John the Baptist. All in all he stated 8 &quot;almost indisputable facts&quot; in that book which any reasoned and reasonable account of the historical Jesus should be able to account for. <br />With &quot;The Historical Figure of Jesus&quot; Sanders presents a much more reader-friendly (and appreciably less technical though still academically formulated) account of Jesus of Nazareth in which he ups the statements he now considers as &quot;almost beyond dispute&quot; to 15 and attempts to draw his picture of Jesus around these chosen static points. Clearly, then, the things Sanders considers as fixed are crucial here. These demonstrate some modification of Sanders' position from his earlier book and the addition of some &quot;equally secure facts&quot; about &quot;the aftermath of Jesus' life&quot;. They are not things which scholars or general readers would find particularly controversial. But then the devil is always in the detail.<br />Sanders' construction of the historical Jesus as displayed in &quot;Jesus and Judaism&quot; is well known for being based around the incident in the Temple where Jesus turns over tables and drives out animals and/or people. This is seen as the proximate cause of Jesus' crucifixion and the event which gives us insight into his orientation as one interested in &quot;restoration eschatology&quot;. But with &quot;The Historical Figure of Jesus&quot; Sanders takes a different tack, assuming much less background knowledge on the readers' part and so, consequently, providing the assumed reader with chapters of background on the political and religious settings of Jesus and on the nature of the documentary sources for his life. These chapters are as erudite as they are compact and would provide even the most novice-like reader of historical Jesus literature with a key to begin opening a number of the locks Sanders later presents. Having given background, Sanders proceeds to give chapters (some of which are so good they should be regarded as set texts on the subjects they address) which orientate themselves around Jesus' assumed interest in the Kingdom of God, his performance of miracles, the meaning of his teaching in Jewish context, Jesus' own view of himself and a programmatic chapter on Jesus' last week (an exercise in lucid brilliance). The Jesus revealed is set within a Jewish eschatological framework (discussion about the end of the current order of things) in which he is depicted very much as traditionally, even typically, Jewish. He speaks, for example, about &quot;the reversal of values and ethical perfectionism&quot; in the coming new age - the Kingdom of God. So what appears is a typically Jewish individual who harbours a view of his own authority to speak as, Sanders suggests, God's viceroy, and with an agenda which looks and works for the establishment of God's eschatological kingdom. All this is usefully garnished with astute discussion of the sayings of Jesus in the context of a Jewish religious situation. Two useful appendices and the addition of thorough indexes supplement the book usefully so that it is a practically orientated product for those who wish to validate orfurther their reading.<br />So this is a book which I find exceedingly lucid and wise on the subject of the historical Jesus. Of course, readerly conclusions will always be different and I would not wish to give the impression that I agree with everything Sanders proposes or to suggest that he should be regarded as a fount of infallible knowledge. I would, however, suggest that this book is the perfect one for the general and non-technical reader interested in the historical figure of Jesus. It orientates the reader to the subject at hand, provides useful and relevant background in a way that is very clear and is sure-footed as to the conclusions it reaches and the evidence upon which it is based. I recommend it whole-heartedly.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	RMWTOB6SYBNZD	0687056330	768724201	In Quest of Jesus: Revised and Enlarged Edition	Books	3	9	29	N	N	Never mind the Quality, Where's the Width?	It is hard to decide, having read W.Barnes Tatum's &quot;In Quest of Jesus&quot;, whether one has been thoroughly grounded in the essential information needed to grasp the scholarly study of the historical Jesus or whether, in fact, one is missing something. We certainly have here a basic grounding in historical Jesus study as it has been carried out by the scholarly community for some little time now. Also, we have orientations to key questions surrounding the study of Jesus and the Gospels. But it still seems to me that something is missing. On further reflection I think it is that the whole story is not really being told. Any one who is cogniscent with scholarly study of the historical Jesus knows that a preeminent and abiding bedfellow of that field of study is sectional interest, bias and frequent presentations of Jesus which favour an unending choice between innumerable binary opposites (such as was he a sage or an apocalyptic preacher of doom?). &quot;In Quest of Jesus&quot; doesn't really get to grips with any of this. This is strange since W Barnes Tatum himself is connected with the self-selected scholarly group &quot;The Jesus Seminar&quot; which has recently been ruffling a few scholarly as well as religious feathers, particularly on the American side of the North Atlantic, because it is so strident in making just such choices as these. But let me be clear in what I am saying: it is not that Tatum leaves out material in this book, it is that he fails to contextualise it as fully as he might. He seems to have forgotten the seemingly ever-present postmodern tendency these days to concentrate on readers as well as &quot;objective history&quot; - and Tatum definitely comes from that historical tradition which posits that Jesus was something in particular which is, in theory at least, open to the positivist, human eye.  So I would say that this is a book which is useful as far as it goes - which isnt quite far enough. Thus, I would recommend that if you readthis book you read it alongside one or two others on the same subject. Maybe then the reader may begin to get the depth and contextualisation to the subject of the historical Jesus, one which is ever prone to sectarianisation and simplisitic, positivistically conceived, assertions.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	R1B35L2Q7HY4A5	0800631447	679922240	Jesus of Nazareth: Millenarian Prophet	Books	5	42	45	N	N	Brilliant, Compact, Comprehensive and Punchy!	I have read a lot of books on the historical Jesus in my situation as a postgraduate student specialising in this area - and Dale Allison's &quot;Jesus of Nazareth&quot; is easily in the top 5 I have ever read. It holds to that research programme which regards Jesus as an eschatological figure based on the belief that since his mentor, John the Baptist, was, and since his followers, the first Christians, were, then he must also have been. It follows this belief through with a pulsating argument based on religious parallels and methodological sifting of the Gospel texts.<br />Interesting then that this book begins by totally destroying the argument of John Dominic Crossan and the Jesus Seminar who find a diametrically opposed and non-eschatological Jesus. But then we see that Allison is attempting to show that reasoned and reasonable treatment of these resources leads to the conclusion that an eschatological explanation for Jesus (or apocalyptic as Crossan would want to say) is the only one which makes sense of the majority of the Jesus tradition. Indeed, this is a criterion for Allison: if the tradition is basically misleading, then what historical use can it really be? Thus follows a masterful sifting of the eschatological traditions about Jesus in comparison with other religious parallels which leads Allison to argue even that Jesus was an ascetic expecting the end - his persuasive argument leads the reader to seriously consider the proposition.<br />In summary, this book is brilliant, easy to read and very, very persuasive. Its conclusions make sense of the majority of the Jesus traditions and are based on strong methodological foundations. Allison is realistic about what can and cannot be claimed for Jesus and I believe that this book sets this out in clear and ringing tones. A &quot;must read&quot; for those interested in the historical Jesus.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	R2QOKTX650IOHD	0679446753	959790294	Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews: A Jewish Life and the Emergence of Christianity	Books	5	70	74	N	N	An Historical Jesus Born of Common Sense	The words that come to mind having absorbed the arguments of Paula Fredriksen in &quot;Jesus of Nazareth, King of the Jews&quot; are &quot;common sense&quot;. In her book she has not fallen prey (like so many in historical Jesus studies) to the predatory gaze of &quot;method&quot; neither has she been overly waylaid along the way by a need to pander to various &quot;audiences&quot; either contemporary or ancient. She has done history - Jewish history - and, in my opinion, done it well. Her Jesus is &quot;a prophet who preached the coming apocalyptic Kingdom of God.&quot; She follows this tack not least because it enables Jesus to cohere with his immediate mentor, John the Baptist, and the movement that &quot;sprang up in his name&quot; - the first Christians. Fredriksen believes that in many ways what Jesus preached was revolutionary only in the sense that he talked about God's kingdom NOW rather than SOON - it was a matter of TIMETABLE and not CONTENT. Thus, Fredriksen contributes another Jesus to the current round of thoroughly Jewish Jesuses.<br />A key and noteworthy aspect of Fredriksen's work is the insight that the itinerary of John, as against the Synoptic Gospels, may be closer to the truth. That is, Jesus was known in Judea and Galilee rather than just Galilee. This allows her to say that Jesus, being known in and around Jerusalem, could be seen as a one man threat in a sense, rather than the leader of a revolutionary movement or army. Thus, when the time came to do away with Jesus his followers were left alone since they were never perceived as the threat Jesus was. This threat was due to Jesus ability to galvanise the crowds with his imminent eschatological message, a message which at his final Passover may well have been tinged with a crowd more and more convinced of his possible messianic credentials. Thus Jesus was executed by Pilate as a political insurrectionist.<br />So what other examples of scholarly common sense might we find in this book? Well, the insight that searching for the historical Jesus now requires knowledge of the historical Galilee and historical Judaism. Further, the suggestion that Jesus is not the all-seeing, all-knowing individual some scholars (and many readers) assume him to be. Why can't Pilate's action against Jesus have caught him by surprise, for example? Further, but by no means finally, that Jesus' messianic identity might well be in some way concretised in the consciousness of those following Jesus before the crucifixion and, indeed, act as a fatal impetus towards it.<br />So here we have a book of eminent common sense which attempts what was seemingly becoming thought impossible - a reasoned and reasonable view of the historical Jesus which attempts to make sense of our historical evidence without fuss, bluster or fanfares of publicity. I judge that Fredriksen has done as good a job as we can expect against the current background of research - and in a way that is both readable and enjoyable. As a current postgraduate student specialising in the historical Jesus,I recommend this book to every reader interested in the subject.the insight that searching for the historical Jesus now requires knowledge of the historical Galilee and historical Judaism. Further, the suggestion that Jesus is not the all-seeing, all-knowing individual some scholars (and many readers) assume him to be. Why can't Pilate's action against Jesus have caught him by surprise, for example? Further, but by no means finally, that Jesus' messianic identity might well be in some way concretised in the consciousness of those following Jesus before the crucifixion and, indeed, act as a fatal impetus towards it.<br />So here we have a book of eminent common sense which attempts what was seemingly becoming thought impossible - a reasoned and reasonable view of the historical Jesus which attempts to make sense of our historical evidence without fuss, bluster or fanfares of publicity. I judge that Fredriksen has done as good a job as we can expect against the current background of research - and in a way that is both readable and enjoyable. As a current postgraduate student specialising in the historical Jesus,I recommend this book to every reader interested in the subject.	2000-12-02
US	49774379	R29PD5XA3R8MJZ	0140262881	859967900	Philosophy and Social Hope	Books	5	11	14	N	N	A Book Useful for Thoughtful People Everywhere	To those already acquainted with the writing and thought of Richard M Rorty the contents of &quot;Philosophy and Social Hope&quot; will offer few surprises - and yet I would still recommend that such people should get a  copy of this book!  It is Rorty's endless ability to repeat his thoughts in  new and (always) interesting ways which is one of his greatest attractions.  I first got into Rorty via the postmodernism debate and, having read much  of his work since then, I have become much enamoured of his pragmatic  (Pragmatic) approach which fuzzes up distinctions beloved of  Platonic/Kantian types and which longs to be &quot;better/hopeful&quot;  rather than &quot;right&quot;.<br />Although Rorty writes here for a  generalised audience (and its not always obvious from his writing whether  the work is &quot;academic&quot; or not), he does write as if his readers  know what he is talking about. Thus, readers who come equipped with a  Deweyan, Davidsonian, Jamesian vocabulary are more likely to be able to  appropriate what he is saying more easily. I suspect any adherents of  realist philosophy who stumble across this book will not get past the  introduction and will go away angry and scandalised that such thought be  allowed to exist, much less be promoted and read.<br />I found the opening  three sections (autobiographical, pragmatic theoretical and pragmatic  applicative) by far the most interesting and enjoyable here - together with  a stimulating &quot;afterword&quot; on &quot;Pragmatism, Pluralism and  Postmodernism&quot; - which is itself a good place to start reading this  book. Being a non-American, I was less enthusiastic about reading Rorty's  thoughts and hopes for that country. However, much of what he says is  broadly aplicative to my own country and the reader is always free to look  behind the scenes of Rorty's argument and, once more, gaze upon what  motivates his arguments. In closing, I would argue that Rorty is the most  significant figure writingon culture in general and philosophy in  particular at the moment. This collection of his works over the last decade  is an accessible and stimulating way to appropriate that work. Mucho  recommendo!	2000-07-30
US	49774379	RSK3OAHBZ9E8J	0813367050	298919844	The Elusive Messiah: A Philosophical Overview Of The Quest For The Historical Jesus	Books	2	16	25	N	N	An Opportunity Largely Lost	I came to this book with a fair degree of anticipation; and I think, having read it, that I have been let down; whether that is by what Raymond Martin offers here or by my expecting too much, I am not quite sure  yet.<br />This book proclaims on the cover to be a &quot;philosophical  overview of the Quest for the Historical Jesus&quot; - I would hardly call  it that. It is more like the product of a scholar who has just woken up and  realised that the Enlightenment has taken place and now wants to address  the question of how faith and (historical) reality should relate (or not)  and what, in historical studies, the practical outworkings of this should  be. Thus, he takes as his targets the history/theology opposition (at least  it seems an opposition for the purposes of this book), how those of  religious faith might fit their beliefs into secular historicalising and  what might count as authentic history at all. These are worthy subjects and  the Quest for the Historical Jesus is as good a place as any to discuss  such issues - but does this then make said book a &quot;philosophical  overview of the Quest for the Historical Jesus&quot;? I definitively think  not. There is here no discussing of such topics as what historical reality  might be in the first place, no discussing the interaction of reader and  text, no discussing the metaphysics involved in studying a being many  regard as &quot;divine&quot; or &quot;supernatural&quot; - and there is no  discussion of myriad epistemological questions about historical knowledge  as applied to the Quest. I would have expected a &quot;philosophical  overview&quot; to have been so much broader than what is served up by  Martin here.<br />All that said, what is Martin's approach? He begins by very  broadly detailing what has led up to the present (third) Quest of the  Historical Jesus in scientific and historical areas as they relate to the  Quests. (This opening part of the book contains a narrative detailing the  historyof the Quest so far as well as an explanation of the most common  results for the inter-relatedness of the canonical Gospels.) He then  chooses some modern Questers to use as examples of the relative  theological/historical positions he wishes to set out with the aim of  critiquing them to make his points. These points largely revolve around the  problem of fitting the miraculous or the divine, or, at least, belief in  them, into histories which seem, methodologically, to have strayed down a  secular line of thinking. One slight quirk here is his choice of Elizabeth  Schussler Fiorenza, a feminist scholar who, while she has certainly written  on Jesus, does not, as I understand it, see herself as part of the Quest  for the Historical Jesus. This choice is compounded when Martin doesn't  seem to pick up on Schussler Fiorenza later in his text as he does with  others. These others include more well-known Quest names such as John  Meier, John Dominic Crossan, E.P. Sanders, Marcus Borg and N.T. Wright. The  result of all this concentration on the results and methods of various  Quest scholars is a three-fold (actually four-fold) response Martin sees to  studying the Historical Jesus (as an example of where faith and history  meet): &quot;only faith&quot;, &quot;faith seeking understanding&quot; and  &quot;only reason&quot; (the fourth is &quot;multiperspectivalism&quot;,  viewing as many sides as you can and not making a definitive choice). In  setting out his book thusly, Martin seemingly wishes to promote  methodological history which fully accounts for how it might fit in  extrahistorical factors in a coherent and sensible way. This aim seems fine  to me as far as it goes (but how far is that?).<br />So we come to a summary  of likes and dislikes. I liked the idea the book conjured up from its  title, I disliked what I got in comparison with this; I liked the  concentration on major figures from the modern Quest; I disliked the narrow  concentration on only a tiny proportion of the issues these scholars raise  in their own studies; I liked.......well actually I didn't like very much  now I think about it. The book is just too narrow in its choice of literary  and philosophical targets. Being written by an outsider to the Quest  itself, the book further gives much introductory information that anyone  who knows something of it will find unnecessary and they will, no doubt,  desperately be hunting for the meat that is to come; I'm not sure they will  ever find it. In closing, I would have to say that this book sets out with  a great idea but that that idea, at least as regards those with knowledge  of the Quests for the historical Jesus or, indeed, of philosophy, is still  very much waiting to happen.	2000-06-23
