US	49775207	R2K5KY2W9GMMKC	0395955637	604856199	Time Travel in Einstein's Universe: The Physical Possibilities of Travel Through Time	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Professor Gott's Time Travel in Einstein's Universe	Professor of Astrophysics Gott of Princeton discusses one of the most creative ideas concerning the universe, time, time travel.  In following him and his Ph.D. student Li-Xin Li, we read in amazingly clear language about the latest research in astrophysics and the physics of the universe (cosmology), including string theory, inflation, chaotic inflation, budding universes with and without time loops, and the older origin of these theories with Wheeler and Feynman of Princeton and their split wave advanced-retarded theory which explained quantum strangeness and the strange results of double slit diffraction experiments which seem to indicate that light \\"knows\\" the open vs closed path that lies ahead of it.  In this, they carry atrophysicist Gribbin's (of Cambridge University) popular books much further.  Part of the combined universes in Gott's picture appear finite like an endless circle or sphere that one can go around continually with a backwards time loop, although later universes may lack such loops....	2002-01-10
US	49775207	R13R4CCXDMIBQR	055380202X	135474617	The Universe in a Nutshell	Books	5	7	17	N	N	Stephen Hawking's The Universe in a Nutshell	To understand Stephen Hawking's books, it helps to know what translating from quantitative to verbal language and back does for Creative Geniuses and what it can do for most people.  It awakes and stimulates associations in the brain or mind to vast worlds of knowledge of both quantitative and verbal type, and this results in new ideas and new combinations of ideas.  Start with an open mind and tolerance and with the understanding that Creative Geniuses tend to be more concerned with the Spirit of the Law than with the Letter of the Law.  Try to look into the Spirit of what Hawking writes.  If there are words that confuse you, write them down and look up their definitions - the internet is an excellent place to search for definitions.  Make flash cards and alphabetize them by the first letter or first two letters of the definition, thus organizing the words and enabling you to find words about the same topic rapidly.  Don't just make index cards on one side - put about one or two lines of ordinary handwriting or typing on front and about one or two lines on the back, so that you have to guess the second half of the definition or theory or theorem or axiom or example from looking at the first half. <br />When you've done that, think about this.  People don't become parents only in order to help their children.  They also become parents to help themselves out of loneliness, to learn more about the world.  You'll find that out if you become a parent.  Stephen Hawking writes not just because it inspires you the reader, but because it inspires him to translate from mathematics and physics into English.  It's not always a perfect translation.  But you'll find that Hawking always chooses the latest topics in physics, because his popular books are a way of continuing his research which constitutes his Way of Life.  If you just concentrate on the word *brane* or *p-brane* in the index of his book, and look that up on the internet and try to understand as much as you can about it in Hawking, you'll be close to one of the latest and most important fields of research in all of science.  The secret is not in Hawking's pictures, but in Knowledge.  If you think Knowledge is difficult, try Ignorance - it just leads to anger and violence.	2002-01-08
US	49775207	R2ZMXG09YY4CTV	0671021265	519262866	Preserver (Star Trek)	Books	5	0	2	N	N	William Shattner's Preserver (Star Trek)	I've never met a Star Trek episode or book that I didn't like, which is probably the best one can say about the modern time version of Will Rogers' &quot;I never met a person I didn't like.*  One good thing about Shattner's TV role as Captain Kirk and his series of books including Preserver is that we have one of the original Gene Rodenberry cast (who lasted all the way through the series and into seveal more)who helped very much make it what it is and was, William Shattner, interpreting things and carrying on with the help of his admirable co-authors. Another good thing in Preserver is the *Wise Aliens* - it is so in contrast with the usual Bug Eyed Monster (BEM) Sci-Fi movies!  I think that it did wonders for Isaac Asimov's Foundation Series.  Wise People/Creatures behind the scenes, like mysterious benefactors in mystery stories (Agatha Christie had them all over the place - not just mysterious psychopaths), appeal to our good and Noble parts.  Long Live Star Trek!  I have to add that time and space and dimensional travel and related mysteries are really important in modern physics (quantum entanglement may involve all three).  As usual, science fiction keeps up with the latest research and sometimes goes ahead.	2001-08-17
US	49775207	R2HS5V9WR26BXS	0786867078	181573917	Special Agent: My Life on the Front Lines as a Woman in the FBI	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Candice DeLong's Special Agent	This is the best book that I have ever read on the FBI or law enforcement, written by a woman who not only went beyond the call of duty but did it against both *friends* (a tradition of not hiring women agents) and foes.  Aside from her courage, what most impresses me is her background as head Psychiatric Nurse in a major hospital before joining the FBI, which was subsequently put to good use in profiling rapists and similar violent criminals. This &quot;profiling&quot; technique uses statistics and interviews with offenders to obtain patterns of attacks and attackers - personality and lifestyle sketches of the typical psychopath (less effective with new criminals who simply *panic*)which are directed toward answering why particular victims are selected while others are not, why violence escalates over time for the psychopath, what kinds of public appeals may flush out the criminal or encourage him to communicate or confess, where the criminal is likely to surface, etc.  The profiling technique was pioneered by psychiatrist James Brussel in the 1950s and introduced to the FBI by Howard Teten and Patrick Mullany in the early 1970s.  <br />Candice DeLong, who retired in July 2000, is a credit to Irish American Catholics and women and people with courage beyond the call of duty as well as mental health practitioners everywhere.  I hope that women and mental health professionals and other scientists including statisticians will follow her example and consider a career in law enforcement, whether or not they believe in the sanity of politicians or in the sanity of bureaucrats.	2001-07-25
US	49775207	R1AP65EQXCPRN	0684814811	872816049	MINDS, MACHINES, AND THE MULTIVERSE: THE QUEST FOR THE QUANTUM COMPUTER	Books	5	14	17	N	N	Julian Brown's Minds, Machines, and the Multiverse	The editors and other reviewers have done a good job on this book, and I will just make a few comments.  I've been working on quantum computers and quantum cryptography, but I'm very oriented toward how non-experts will understand books and articles.  I don't think that there is any clearer book on quantum computers than Julian Brown's, but I agree with some of the others that it will still be hard to come away with a feeling of understanding some basic ideas of the subjects.  This book is, however, excellent for the fascinating history of discovery and invention, which Brown excels at revealing.  Just as you don't have to know much about law to enjoy biographies of politicians, you'll probably enjoy Brown's book very much if you don't expect too much from it.  It's also a good opportunity for parents to teach children (and vice versa!) to love learning and knowledge, because if you tolerate and even not get upset at a certain level of ambiguity, you just might be tempted to read a few sections over a few times and then start looking on the internet or in the libraries for more details.  Scientific American can help you to get more details on some of the things that you don't understand, and I wouldn't be surprised if one of these days a clearer book on the technicalities will also come out - in which case it will help you to be ahead of the game by reading as much as you can of this book.  <br />Research in the physical/mathematical sciences which is in the very new stages tends to be difficult to write up.  Quantum computers and cryptography are about as new as research gets.  The best creative geniuses probably are capable right now of writing up their ideas in English in such a way that most people would understand them if they try, but they're sort of in the position of a fireman who has to keep putting out fires rather than write his autobiography.  The autobiographies and the clarifications will come later.  One thing that you can do is to try to puzzle out who the most creative geniuses are from the book.  There usually are only relative few in science/mathematics.  Most scientists tend to be Ingenious Followers, just moving one step ahead of the last scientist.  The Creative Geniuses jump many steps ahead, and they usually do it often.  I'll give you a clue - one of the latter is David Deutsch of Oxford University's Clarendon Laboratory.  Generally speaking, Great Britain and France and Belgium and the words Creative Genius in Physics/Math/Computers go together.  I'm going to let you find the clues for the other Creative Geniuses for yourselves, except to mention for example that some of it has to do with Rolf Landauer of IBM's Thomas J. Watson Research Center, who passed away in 1999 just before the book was written.  You might also be surprised to find that Professor Richard Feynman of Caltech borrowed somebody else's ideas (at least John von Neumann gave people credit when he did that) - Paul Benioff's of Argonne National Labs in Illinois.  Look those people up on the internet and in books and journals.  Also, look up entanglement and interference in the book's index and read all the pages about them in the book - the easiest ones first perhaps.  I'll just leave you with a thought (I may give some more clarifications another time).  Quantum entangled people will behave exactly the same even if they are in different galaxies.  It's like the *psychic twins*.  If that isn't enough to turn one toward a career in science/math, I don't know what is.	2001-06-02
US	49775207	R310AL5XJDTZ39	0674002253	288929585	American Tragedy: Kennedy, Johnson, and the Origins of the Vietnam War	Books	5	18	20	N	N	Professor David Kaiser's American Tragedy	Professor David Kaiser of the Strategy and Policy Department of the Naval War College tells us the real story behind the bureaucrats who put us into Vietnam, and in doing so lives up to the highest traditions of the U.S. Navy and U.S. Marine Corps which have generally been far ahead of the other services in their resistance to bureaucratic pressures from politicians.  The CIA refused to provide Kaiser with anything but token documents, violating the Freedom of Information Act.  Kaiser shows how politicians including Presidents Eisenhower and Lyndon Johnson grew up under the spell of Churchill's anti-appeasement speeches to believe that the USA had to become the World Policeman.  When he became President, Eisenhower began U.S. involvement in Southeast Asia covertly and the Joint Chiefs of Staff except General Shoup of the Marines were badgered into accepting this.  When John F. Kennedy became President, both his Senate and Navy service led him to oppose intervention for a long time, in agreement with the U.S. Senate Democrats (Mansfield, Humphrey, etc.) and isolationist Republicans (Dirksen, etc.).   The State Department Bureaucrats (who controlled the CIA) and their allies in related departments and the Joint Chiefs so badgered and pressured Kennedy that he eventually collapsed under their bombardment and agreed to intervention in Laos.  When Johnson came in as President, he made full scale intervention.  Some readers may recall that I have reviewed biographies of Field Marshalls Montgomery and Slim of Great Britain and Marshall/General Zhukov of Russia but not Eisenhower.  The Allies produced 4 creative geniuses in World WarII: Montgomery, Slim, Zhukov, and Admiral Nimitz.  Eisenhower was not one of them.  He was then and later more suited to bureaucratic Ingenious Follower status than to individual Creative Genius status, like Lyndon Johnson.  Our British and French allies opposed the intervention (Churchill would probably have opposed it too) not because of De Gaulle's *intransigence* as the news media claimed, but because they are the two nations with the most creative geniuses (along with Italy) in world history.  When all is said and done, World War II was needed to defend the USA, but most wars are not and were not (like World War I, which was a bureaucratic war and nothing more).  I hope that we start thinking more about jobs and education and environment at home and less about creating overseas what we cannot do at home.	2001-05-08
US	49775207	R1D6DZKM532B2Y	0684852861	48882658	First, Break All the Rules: What the World's Greatest Managers Do Differently	Books	5	2	4	N	N	Buckingham's First Break All the Rules	The other reviewers have excellently analyzed this book, and I'd like to concentrate here on where the idea of breaking the rules fits into history.  In my fields of mathematics and physics teaching and research, history shows that the most creative geniuses broke the rules but also had the most knowledge of the rules.  This combination of knowledge and change characterized creative geniuses across the board, from Socrates to Leonardo Da Vinci and Michaelangelo and Cervantes and Pierre De Fermat, Beethoven and Mozart and Haydn and Schubert and Chopin, to Paul Dirac and Steven Weinberg and Stephen Hawking and Sir Roger Penrose in physics and beyond.  It might be an exaggeration to say that they broke all the rules, but they broke some that nobody had thought of breaking before, and they were prepared to break any that were necessary.  They were both rebels and guardians of civilization, a strange combination called the best of human life.  That's where breaking all the rules in management comes from, in my opinion.	2001-02-24
US	49775207	R1H4WD6CXQOOOF	0306464853	376175882	Quantum Gravity, Generalized Theory of Gravitation and Superstring Theory-Based Unification	Books	5	7	15	N	N	B. N. Kursunoglu et al's Quantum gravity etc.	My article appears in this book as well as articles by some of the top people in quantum gravity, genralized theory of gravitation, and super-string based unification (unified field) theory.  The Global Foundation, which sponsors the conferences on which the series of books is based, is composed mostly of Nobel Prize winners and comparable level people.  It is remarkably innovative and receptive to new ideas - what one would expect from Nobel Prize and comparable people.  My own article applies logic-based probability (LBP for short or LEUT) to the above fields.  It's a sort of Non-Euclidean geometry version or analogue of mainstream Bayesian conditional probability (BCP)and like Non-Euclidean geometry changes a few small assumptions/axioms/definitions to obtain a new type of mathematics.  LBP uses subtraction of probabilities (plus a constant) instead of BCP's division of probabilites, and is much more useful than BCP for rare events and highly influential/highly dependent events.  Professor Kursunoglu obtained his Ph.D. in physics under Nobel Laureate Professor Paul Dirac of Cambridge University, England and worked with Albert Einstein. Dirac (now deceased) and Steven Weinberg (also a Nobel Laureate) are the two most creative and influential theoretical physicists of the last 30-40 years, although Weinberg (now at University of Texas Austin) is not with the Global Foundation.  The series of books started in the 1950s.	2000-11-15
US	49775207	R2TGCRABTWO413	0385418493	610658517	How the Irish Saved Civilization: The Untold Story of Ireland's Heroic Role From the Fall of Rome to the Rise of Medieval Europe (The Hinges of History)	Books	5	16	22	N	N	Thomas Cahill's How the Irish Saved Civilization	As a long time admirer of Irish history, I was astonished to discover that the Irish indeed saved literature (including the Greek and Roman classicals) and science/mathematics through their monasteries and even their Green Martyrdom, from Saint Patrick through the monk Columcille who spread the books throughout Europe and was imitating by legions of follower monks including Columbanus.  The White Maryrs founded Salzburg and Vienna among many other places.  They Irish valued learning like the Jews.  They valued open-mindedness to new ideas much more than other narrowly bureaucratic strict clergics, whether when importing ideas from ancient Egypt or from other ancient peoples and not censoring books.  Finally, they valued humor (like the Jews).  Note carefully, however, that we are talking about the more religious and ascetic Irish people who dedicated their lives to God rather than to materialism or partying.  We are not talking about the playboy and not-knowing-what-to-do-with-your-money millionnaires of some modern Irish politicians abroad for whom materialism and sexual escapades are a step backwards toward the collapse of Ancient Rome.	2000-11-15
US	49775207	R2ZW4JTF7F1GXX	1555714986	947420965	Green Hell: The Battle for Guadalcanal (Hellgate Memories Series)	Books	5	4	6	N	N	William J. Owens' Green Hell: The Battle for Guadalcanal	This book by Army Security Agency veteran Owens of the Korean War is like Audie Murphy's To Hell and Back.  It's the story of people who'll live again, like General Lewis &quot;Chesty&quot; Puller, the most decorated Marine of World War II (also of the Korean War) who inspired his men by one of the most unusual philosophies in history - he fought alongside them.  You'll find Marine Captain Joseph J. (Joe) Foss from Sioux Falls South Dakota who won the Medal of Honor and was the first aviator in World War II to exceed the record of Captain Eddie Rickenbacker in WWI and kept surviving his planes being shot down.  You'll find Admiral Halsey here and the whole 1st Marine Division and the Second Marine Division and Army who relieved them later on and the Navy that lost so many men.  You'll find Sergeant &quot;Manila&quot; John Basilone of Buffalo, New York, who did an &quot;Audie Murphy&quot; and won the Medal of Honor.	2000-11-03
US	49775207	R1WC405K4BVMMS	0395907713	751499058	Sparks of Genius: The Thirteen Thinking Tools of the World's Most Creative People	Books	5	39	42	N	N	Robert and Michele Root-Bernstein's Sparks of Genius	The review by Kirkus Associates is excellent, and many of the other  reviews are very good.  The 13 thinking tools of the world's most creative  people, according to the authors, are abstracting, analogizing, body  thinking (body images), dimensional thinking, empathizing (feeling empathy  with objects, processes, others), forming patterns, imaging (thinking of  things by using mental images of them, whether realistic or  &quot;distorted&quot;), modeling, observing, playing, recognizing patterns,  synthesizing (combining, etc.), transforming.  The study of genius as an  &quot;extreme&quot; of knowledge discovery is long past its due in  education from elementary through university, and has many clues for  improving education.  Geniuses not only cross fields from science through  art, but tend to be interdisciplinary, appear to be well grounded both in  basics and intuition/thinking/mental processes, and use imagery (by the  way, using imagery is taught by a number of cognitive psychologists and  psychoanalysts for mental health as well).  Robert Bernstein's physiology  background helps him unlock some of the physiological processes of genius,  and Michele's historical background helps trace back the characteristics of  pre-modern geniuses.  There is probably much more to the story, but this  book is an excellent start.	2000-09-07
US	49775207	R3LN36ZRLZTT0N	0671890913	686500362	The Longest Day: The Classic Epic of D-Day	Books	5	8	8	N	N	Cornelius Ryan's The Longest Day	The other reviewers, especially Barron, have done such an outstanding job that there is not much left to say.  I am very impressed by Ryan as a  reporter and an outstanding writer who is able to simultaneously tell the  stories of hundreds of people (and indirectly hundreds of thousands).   Faith of Our Fathers did this for six people, and that was hard enough.   Whether six or hundreds, I think that this is a mark of Creative Genius,  the kind of thing that a Beethoven or Haydn or Mozart wove together into a  masterpiece of many parts, many men, many women.  Ryan was one of the best.	2000-08-17
US	49775207	R1UF27MJ67WZ86	0385493622	603019861	Fermat's Enigma: The Epic Quest to Solve the World's Greatest Mathematical Problem	Books	5	11	12	N	N	Singh and Lynch's Fermat's Enigma	Pierre De Fermat was in my opinion the greatest mathematician of all time  except possibly for Pythagoras.  We are still discovering astonishing  things about him.  He lived in the 1600s, mostly before Newton (with a  slight overlap), but he invented/discovered large parts of the calculus  before Newton.  He invented analytic geometric before Descartes (Descartes  was so furious at his secretiveness that he spent much of his life trying  to ruin Fermat's career as a government lawyer/official in France).  With  Pascal, he invented probability theory.  He invented modern number theory,  which is key to cryptography among other things.  The search for the proof  of Fermat's Last Theorem resulted in the founding of several major branches  of advanced algebra and number theory.  He discovered major results in  physics including optics before Newton and in fact in my opinion may have  anticipated parts of Einstein's special theory of relativity because of his  interest in optics (where he correctly found that light slows down in  water, contrary to Descartes' findings) and the similarity of the  quadratic(square) expression in Fermat's Last Theorem to the vital beta or  1/beta factor in the Lorentz contraction of special relativity.  Fermat was  roughly 300-350 years ahead of his time, and the only scientist who was  more ahead of him appears to have Leonardo Da Vinci of the Renaissance who  may have been 400 or so years ahead of his time.  Even Einstein was only a  few years ahead of his time because the mathematics apparatus was already  in place when Einstein reinterpreted it from a physics viewpoint.   McInerny's review is very good, but don't be surprised if somebody  discovers a much shorter proof than Wiles' based on the reinterpretation of  the word &quot;margin&quot; to mean difference in variables/numbers.  Go  out and buy this book.	2000-08-12
US	49775207	R22CBXI7DAZUWT	0553111337	243328997	Flags of Our Fathers	Books	5	3	4	N	N	James Bradley's Flags of Our Fathers	James Bradley goes nearly as far as his father (one of the six Marine flag-raisers) and tells us the story of all six lives almost simultaneously from the beginning.  There aren't many people who can do that.  Beethoven  and Chopin in classical or romantic music were able to simultaneously tell  many stories - it's usually called Creative Genius, Nearness to God, Esprit  De Corps.  It helps to be tremendously moved and motivated, as Bradley was  by his father and his father's friends.  It helps to walk among the Pima  Indians as Bradley did to learn about Ira Hayes (one of the six) and the  families and the coal mines and the Catholic and Adventist and Presbyterian  Churches (surprising how many Catholics were among the six) and the hills  of Daniel Boone and the coal mines of Pennsylvania and the textile mills of  New Hampshire where the six flag-raisers grew up (among other places).  If  you are lucky and have lived long and deeply no matter what your physical  age, you will come close to James Bradley's story of the men who raised the  flag at Iwo Jima.	2000-06-29
US	49775207	R1LQYTYJAR5OL4	0694522856	166886434	Truth at Any Cost	Books	5	10	24	N	N	Truth at Any Cost: Ken Starr and the Unmaking of Clinton	The editorials above and the other reviewers (especially the first few) give an outstanding summary of the book.  Here I will emphasize the points that interest me about the book.  Susan Schmidt, one of the co-authors,  first broke the Lewinsky story in the Washington Post and is an outstanding  investigative reporter.  Ken Starr reminds me from this book of my old idea  that if Christ or the Old Testament Jewish Prophets ever returned to the  modern world, they would be almost immediately crucified.   Starr's ethics  and morality are the old-fashioned Old Testament kind, easily attacked in  the Clinton Non-Great Society by poison-rumor and poison-misinformation  tactics of Clinton's advisors (including his wife Hillary) which are  reminiscent of Senator Joseph McCarthy's witch-hunting tactics.   Fortunately, the Senate officially Censured Joe McCarthy, but things have  gone down-hill from those days.  I am also negatively impressed by the  &quot;Arkansas Mafia&quot; which consists of a few hundred poultry  magnates, bankers, judges, and lawyers (to paraphrase from this book) who  run the Democratic Party and pretty much everything else in Arkansas.  I've  had some direct experience with that Mafia, which has connections even at  the university physical sciences level (my specialties are mathematics and  physics, which I often review in Amazon.com).  Anger and blame play an  important role in it, just as they did in Nazi Germany and the Oklahoma  City bombing (see my review of the book One of Ours on the latter).  [This  refers to the unabridged version of the book.]	2000-06-23
US	49775207	R17AUCUIFVP3BY	0393317129	591633385	The Classical Style: Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven (Expanded Edition)	Books	5	43	56	N	N	Rosen's The Classical Style: Haydn, Mozart, Beethoven	I am not a Classical Music Expert but I am slowly learning it (most of my book reviews are in mathematics and physics).  One of the reviewers criticizes Rosen for some technical reasons that I cannot evaluate.  However, I do know that many universities recommend Rosen's book, so the  critic is not entirely without his own critics.  I find this book endlessly  engrossing, as some of the reviewers have.  You cannnot come away from this  book without understanding many of the main differences between and among  Haydn, Mozart, and Beethoven, and between Classical, Baroque, and Romance  music.  I was especially interested to find that Beethoven, widely touted  as an immoral person in some of the popular media, was in fact a person of  great moral character (and the popular impression of Mozart seems to be  wrong too, although there is less information on this).  Those who believe  that creative genius is stimulated by severe suffering (Beethoven, Van Gogh  in art, Godel in mathematical logic, Galileo in physics and astronomy,  etc.) will find much material in this book that seems to indicate the  accuracy of this theory more or less.  This is also a book that tells you  what Haydn learned from Mozart and Mozart from Haydn, what Beethoven  thought of Mozart and Schubert, what classical music learned from Baroque  music and so on.	2000-06-23
US	49775207	R152AG11JN0OY5	0385482493	460076600	The Gifts of the Jews: How a Tribe of Desert Nomads Changed the Way Everyone Thinks and Feels (Hinges of History)	Books	5	12	19	N	N	Thomas Cahill's The Gifts of the Jews	...This book is extremely readable and spellbinding because it is done in the narrative history style almost like a historical novel and because Cahill is always looking for  lessons and relationships and has an eye for the critical facts like a  great detective.  His discussion of the three meanings of God in the Old  Testament is rivetting: God as a verb (YHWH as an archaic form of the verb  TO BE) which carries the idea of existence and creation, God as an  &quot;independent verb&quot; which cannot be magically controlled by  uttering the name of God, and God as a &quot;communicating/caring  verb&quot; who is always there for us.  The first meaning was taken by  Saint Thomas Acquinas for the theology of God as the only being whose  essence is existence, with all other beings being contingent on God.  This  is a deep point not only in theology but in the Philosophy of Being.  <br />I  found the emphasis on the Prophets of the Old Testament and their  relationship with God as a voice (of justice) which they heard to be  remarkably relevant to the present time when the main voices that are heard  are those of politicians having affairs with interns half their age and  skipping out on their wives.  For all the detailed Jewish customs in the  Bible that Cahill omits (for which some editorials criticize him), there is  one thing that stands out remarkably in modern times - the Prophets not  only did not condone irresponsible behavior, but they preached against it  and thereby contributed immeasurably to civilization.  When the Supreme  Court tells you not to pray in public school, remember that the Prophets  through God were our first teachers, and by the grace of God will be among  our last teachers	2000-06-23
US	49775207	RWN5S64H8V1S5	0231108702	807310346	Roman Catholicism in America	Books	5	3	8	N	N	Professor Chester Gillis' Roman Catholicism in America	This is one of the outstanding books on theology of the twentieth century by Professor Gillis of Georgetown University.  It is not merely a description but a comparison and analysis of issues, such as Mission versus  Maintenance which is an in-depth study of paradoxes between the mission of  the church and the maintenance of the bureaucracy and structure.  Nobody is  expected to accept both sides or all sides of issues, but the reader of any  religion or even no religion will come away with an understanding of unique  features of Roman Catholicism such as the protection of the connection  between the human and the Divine which the institution of Priests and  Sisters provides.  Buddhism and Hinduism have a different way of protecting  this connection, and Judaism and Islam and the Protestant Faith have their  own ways.  Perhaps there is hope in this Amerian melting pot, that by  comparing good experiences the good lives on and the evil is buried.  This  is why I only review good books.	2000-06-16
US	49775207	R2B7JIC62FY3OG	0399145982	677687665	Tammy Wynette: A Daughter Recalls her Mother's Tragic Life and Death	Books	5	9	11	N	N	Jackie Daly's Tammy Wynette - A Daughter Recalls	Jackie and Tom Carter have written a powerful book here.  I'm amazed by the anger expressed by many other reviewers and the personal charges which they make against Daly's character and work ethic.  Anger and blame are the  opposite of the spirit of Stand By Your Man, though they are more  reminiscent of the way Hilary treated Tammy.  The drug culture of music and  acting is an anger-blame culture, with its less obvious side of over-praise  and over-material love.  See my review of One of Ours (the Oklahoma City  bombing) for more on this.  Contrary to the angry reviewers, this book is  about much more than anger and blaming.  It is about how Tammy Wynette and  her co-composer wrote Stand By Your Man, how Tammy courageously survived  husbands who skipped out on her (nothing new in the Clinton Non-Great  Society and before), and about Tammy's courageous battles against alcohol  and drugs with the help of her children (which some readers seem to think  is an unmentionable revelation for Nashville).  Some anger does seep  through in the book, but the readers' attacks on Jackie Daly reveal much  more about the anger with which women are treated by our society (whether  daughters or mothers).  That disrespect for women is the real story of  Tammy Wynette, and I urge readers to buy the book just to see it in action.	2000-06-16
US	49775207	R38BXWIE7OAI9N	0393027430	233543113	One of Ours: Timothy McVeigh and the Oklahoma City Bombing	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Serrano's One of Ours: Timothy McVeigh and Oklahoma Bombing	For once, I am speechless.  This book and the story behind it is more powerful than any answers that I can suggest.  I will say that both the Prosecution and the Defense in the trial had some correct points.  Even the  Right to Bear Arms is not a one-sided negative right.  One of the best  people that I have ever met was a U.S. Anti-Terrorist agent who belonged to  the NRA and always carried several weapons but would not harm a fly out of  anger or personal vendetta.  I think that the readers should read Robert  Goldston's The Life and Death of Nazi Germany (now out of print,  unfortunately).  It maybe isn't so much your environment, your religion, or  your general upbringing and even your military record that may count as  much as the people or things you blame for the frustrations in life.   Hitler was also a real military hero, although his upbringing was nowhere  nearly as good as McVeigh's.  But Hitler believed in blaming people in  general and anger and eventually this led him into blaming absolutely the  wrong people.  But the Germans of his era had a society built on blame and  anger, and this led them into blaming absolutely the wrong people.  I  believed that Germany should have been re-educated after the war, and I  think that the U.S.A. has a lot of that blame and anger whose other sides  are over-praise and over-love if you get the meaning.  Maybe we should all  be part of the final verdict on McVeigh, and before the Final Judge we  probably will be.	2000-06-10
US	49775207	R2OFCKJIKUJSVW	1853260843	71877442	The Red Badge of Courage and other stories (Wordsworth Classics)	Books	5	17	23	N	N	Stephen Crane's The Red Badge of Courage	Why is the Red Badge of Courage so hard to read until about the middle of the book?   I think it's because Crane throws us into the world of fear in the first half - fear, cowardice, panic, the confusion and disorganization  of war.  We're not used to being treated like this, either by books or the  real world.  I can identify with Crane because the first half of my life  was like that.  It's OK to be afraid.  You can even start reading from the  middle and eventually go backwards if it's frustrating.  As for life, at  some point in life, if you really keep trying, fear gets tiresome and  repetitive.  You begin to despise yourself as a coward, and you only see  images of cowardice around you.  The uselessness of following the crowd and  some of the fairy tales you learned hit you like a brick.  You see too much  destruction, whether in hot wars or cold wars, industry or the academic  world.  One day, when you have nothing left to lose, you try a new strategy  called courage.  You might feel a lot of anger when doing it, but you have  to eventually learn to act out of calmness and yes, even love.  You fight  back because of the things and people you've lost.  You become a Veteran,  whether in war or in peace with illness like Crane himself.  You learn that  there are things more important than your own life.  Then you're like Audie  Murphy, Mahatma Gandhi, Stephen Crane, Galileo Galilei, Saint Thomas More.   And the strangest thing of all is that they're right.  There are things  more important than your own life.  One of them is called Courage.	2000-06-02
US	49775207	REGKBZLI8JE6T	0812931394	319147812	First Son: George W. Bush and the Bush Family Dynasty	Books	5	4	11	N	N	Minutaglio's First Son: George W. Bush	This book has been so well reviewed by the Editor and others that I'll just make a few comments.  The book is well written, fascinating, non-partisan in my opinion, and could well be used as a reference book on  Texas politics in addition to its other aspects.  I may be dense, but I  can't find anything wrong with Bush from this book.  No hard evidence  emerges of Cocaine or anything heavier than alcohol in his young years.  If  we subtract the people who drink alcohol in their young years, we won't  have anybody running for political office much less dog catcher.  He may  not be a Rhodes Scholar, and he may say a lot of half truths for political  purposes, but anybody who thinks Professors would make better Presidents  has not met very many Professors (most of them probably wouldn't want to  meet a non-Professor anyway, except perhaps in bed).  Even his family  doesn't seem so bad.  The Kennedys had Harvard, the Bushes have Yale.  They  all made money.  ...	2000-05-25
US	49775207	RDHWQRFLKXXGP	0609603930	183754374	Uncovering Clinton: A Reporter's Story	Books	5	20	29	N	N	Isikoff's Uncovering Clinton	The Editor and most other reviewers have done an excellent job in reviewing this book, and here I would like to concentrate on some aspects that are important to me.  Isikoff points out that Nixon and Clinton both  hated their enemies, but that they were different in an important respect:  Nixon deep down had a suspicion that his critics might be right, but  Clinton deep down believes that his enemies are scum.  He also concludes  that Clinton is far more psychologically disturbed than the public ever  imagined, and goes into considerable evidence involving Clinton's previous  behavior with women.<br />What I myself find unpardonable about the whole  issue is the effect that the events had on the young people of the USA.  I  was in the High Schools, the Middle Schools, the Universities, and even the  Elementary Schools as a teacher when the stories broke and the President  contradicted himself and finally admitted some of his mistakes.  (I go back  and forth between teaching mathematics and private math-physics  consulting.)  The young generation took Clinton and Lewinsky's behavior as  role models to an enormous extent.  In and out of classes, they cheered the  two of them, and the more blatant their &quot;alleged&quot; affair became,  the more the immoral and unethical conduct itself was cheered.  Students  did not merely support Clinton and Lewinsky.  They supported what they did,  how they did it, when they did it, why they did it, and they publicly  stated again and again that in effect they intended to do it too.  It was  no longer merely Democrat against Republican.  It was getting thrills by  cheating on your wife or husband, by having sex and thrills in public or  via public exposure, and having thrills by stepping on your subordinates  and hurting others.  This is the generation, in Southern California at  least, that is being defended by the teaching and school administration  establishment as really doing well in their grades - contrary to the  repeatedevidence of testing scores compared to other states and other  countries.  I found, on the contrary, that except at the university level  there were only a handful of students interested in studying rather than  &quot;cooling it&quot; and abandoning their responsibilities.  <br />I know  the argument of the Democrats, and I sympathize to some extent, but not  enough to tolerate incompetence and immorality of the type that was present  before the collapse of Ancient Rome.  The Democrats usually say: he's our  only hope for Higher Education Funding and Social Programs.  What kind of  social program is the collapse of Ancient Rome?   What kind of social  program is the Crucifixion of Christians or the incineration of Jews which  Ancient Rome in its worst days developed and handed down to its admirers  and imitators like the Nazis and Fascists?  What kind of social program  creates a young generation of monsters?   <br />Maybe there is a poor choice  between liberal immorality and conservative unconcern.  But if we reward  and perpetuate the social program already put in place by monsters, we  become monsters.  We then agree with Marcus Aurelius that the good of Rome  is buried while the evil lives on.  Is that what we want?	2000-05-24
US	49775207	R35E4RXSZ40O3W	0553272535	88900905	Night	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Elie Wiesel's &quot;Night&quot;	The editor and most other reviewers have done a great job in reviewing this book, and I can only add a few things from my viewpoint.  I thought that I was past tears, and I wasn't.  I thought that I could forget, and I  couldn't.  But the lessons of history should not be repeated over and over  again by generations that forget.  The first steps to Auschwitz are the  steps of blaming the innocent and glorifying the guilty.  Some even do it  in the name of God or Country or Policing the World or Rescuing the World.  Let us begin by rescuing ourselves and living our lives as examples, not  rescuing the past or the future or God or Country.  When we have proven our  own worthiness and freedom from evil beyond all doubt, then we may avoid  the Auschwitzs in our own country.  That is all we can do for history and  for ourselves.	2000-05-20
US	49775207	R21IBL5MOX7M96	0387984313	145059450	An Introduction to Banach Space Theory (Graduate Texts in Mathematics)	Books	5	10	29	N	N	Megginson's An Intro to Banach Space Theory	The editorial and other reviews up to now are very good, and here I want to concentrate on some different aspects.  Megginson of the University of Michigan tells the reader that he is preparing the reader for the papers of  Lindenstrauss and others.  Benyamini and Lindenstrauss have just published  a book, via the American Mathematical Society (AMS), Geometric Nonlinear  Functional Analysis (2000), which ties in with my work on logic-based  probability (LBP) - see abstracts of my papers on the internet at the  Institute for Logic of the University of Vienna.  I have also described  some aspects of functional analysis and semigroups in my other reviews at  Amazon.com.  Economists and mathematicians are not the only ones who can  benefit from this book and the Benyamini-Lindenstrauss book.  Anybody  interested in speed, acceleration, volume, area, etc., will find the  deepest level of analysis being currently explored by functional analysts  in Banach Spaces.  For the non-specialist, whom I am very interested in  addressing, you could think of a Banach space as a space where the objects  are speeds, accelerations, volumes, areas, etc., instead of points.  One of  the astonishing results is that very rare events, events which are  contained in other events, boundary events, and lower dimensional events  turn out to have critical importance on speeds, accelerations, volumes,  areas, etc.  The detective story of how this comes about requires knowing  the literature on Banach Spaces, and since almost everybody has some  contact with speeds, accelerations, volumes, areas, and so on, this means  that the non-specialist should hire a consultant or tutor to either  translate the material into approximately ordinary English or at least the  level of elementary algebra and geometry or to explain the material step by  step using a combination of mathematics and English ingenuity.  Benyamini  and Lindenstrauss, by the way, represent the rapidly oncoming Israeli  school of mathematics, and it is interesting that the former British  colonies or protectorates (USA, Australia, Canada, New Zealand, Israel)and  Great Britain are carrying on much of the research in this area which  really started with the speed-acceleration research of Sir Isaac Newton in  Great Britain hundreds of years ago.  As for the specialist in this area,  this (Megginson) is an up to date compilation for graduate students in  mathematics, but is also an excellent reference work for Banach Spaces  including various integral and derivative spaces and counterexamples and  the interesting topics of rotundity, smoothness, weak topology, and nets.	2000-05-18
US	49775207	R3GEPOTVY2CXSV	0452268346	394734929	Atom: Journey Across the Subatomic Cosmos	Books	5	21	36	N	N	Asimov's Atom	This book reveals a part of Isaac Asimov that I have never realized before: the Detective.  His journey across the subatomic cosmos is that of a detective, whether he is analyzing electrons, light, neutrons, quasars,  antimatter, neutrinos, interactions, or the universe.  He presents a  mystery, a problem, that stumps the experts in physics or chemistry or  mathematics, and then begins eliminating the suspects one by one until the  only possible solution is revealed.  He has done the same thing in his  science fiction, for example in his Foundation Series and Robot Series (see  my Amazon.com reviews of various of his books) - in fact, the heroes of his  robot series were a human detective and a robot or android detective.  I  grew up reading the science fiction of Asimov and/or his colleagues, and my  wife Dr. Marleen Josie Doctorow used Asimov's book on psychological science  fiction in her university psychology courses.  Asimov, by a remarkable  coincidence, was married to a psychiatrist, Dr. Janet Jeppson, and she  continued his Foundation Series after his death via his Estate and the  great writers Brin, Bear, and Benford.  When I read the front page  headlines recently in newspapers attacking psychiatrists and psychologists  like Freud, I wonder whether the journalists realize that all of science  and medicine and journalism involve detective stories.  The greatest  detectives also have something called intuition, which also goes by the  name of ESP, and in theology is considered to be a quality of the Divine.   Asimov had it, Saint Thomas Acquinas had it, the Old Testament Prophets and  Mohammed had it, Buddha had it, Einstein had it, Field Marshall Montgomery  had it.  It leaves us humble and grateful for the miracles of our and their  existence.	2000-05-18
US	49775207	R29G40HPOSDH1C	0761816402	123267205	So Much Data So Little Math: How to Predict Data Trends -- 5 Easy Profitable Methods	Books	5	2	2	N	N	William D. May's So Much Data So Little Math	This book deserves a Nobel Prize for translating difficult mathematics into ordinary English and for enabling the public to literally use computer and mathematical techniques with almost no knowledge of mathematics.  It is useful for the small and large businessman, the manager and the employee,  the student, the teacher, service employees, young and old alike.  It  allows you to access some of the most advanced techniques of analyzing the  stock market (neural networks) with the touch of few buttons.  You learn  the basic computer techniques of statistics (multiple and linear  regression), database management, linear programming, and even how to use  calculus and logic, with practically no effort.  There is an excellent  section on fear of mathematics based on the latest research, which will be  valuable for everybody (see some of my reviews on mathematics study aids  like Schaum's Outlines).  May's orientation toward translating difficult  mathematics into ordinary English for the public is the type of thing that  I believe in in my book reviews at Amazon.com and in my other writings.  In  my opinion, it takes the most creative genius to be able to do that, and  the translator learns more about the subject himself or herself and is  often very inspired creatively by reformulating quantitative into verbal or  qualitative language.  The Virginia colleges and universities and the CIA  can be proud of May, who represents the best that America has achieved.	2000-05-09
US	49775207	R2IC735R9C9YUR	0446524263	781433214	Jackie, Ethel, Joan: Women of Camelot	Books	5	12	16	N	N	Taraborrelli's Jackie, Ethel, Joan: Women of Camelot	The Editor and other reviewers have done an excellent job of reviewing this book, and I will only comment here on a few things.  I agree with reviewers that Joan comes out as the hero of the book, but I think that the  Kennedy women including Rose tell us something fundamental about the world  in which we live.  As a man, I consider that almost all of the women of the  world deserve a Medal of Honor for the major role they play in civilization  - as much as Field Marshalls Montgomery and Slim, whose books I have  reviewed at Amazon.com.  Joan Kennedy Taylor exemplifies the courage about  which John F. Kennedy wrote in Profiles in Courage, although he restricted  his book to men.  Much of her character is excellently revealed in her 1992  book, the Joy of Classical Music, which the public should ask the  publishers to reprint since it is out of print today.  Like most women,  Joan was under &quot;enemy fire&quot; most days of her life, and she not  only survived but triumphed.  Her alleged battle with alcoholism is no  blemish on her character.  The U.S. Veterans Administration (itself under  fire with almost constant budget cuts) treats thousands of courageous men  and women veterans of Vietnam and earlier conflicts with alcoholism and  similar problems every day.  Women like Joan bring us the best of classical  music and indeed classical civilization.  I am indebted to them beyond  words.	2000-05-07
US	49775207	RSBS0BAIZULSC	071464692X	992789619	Despatch on War Operations: 23rd February 1942 to 8th May 1945 (Studies in Air Power)	Books	5	5	16	N	N	Air Marshall Sir Arthur T. Harris and the Bombing of Germany	Many of us remember Gregory Peck in 12 O'Clock High, a story of Command Bombing decisions over Germany.  Reviewers of 12 O'Clock High, both the book and the movie, and perhaps even the authors, often confuse the hero  with the American tactical leader(s).  It was &quot;Bomber Harris&quot;,  later Air Marshall Sir Arthur T. Harris, who ordered the bombing of Germany  in retaliation for the inhuman bombing of England by Hitler's Luftwaffe and  rockets.  He had to fight for that bombing not only against Americans who  felt sorry for the Germans (not having experienced having their home towns  bombed themselves, and somewhat under the spell of German sympathizers in  our military), but against some important Nazi sympathizers in Great  Britain.  Like Montgomery (see my review of him), Harris has had his  portrait rewritten by &quot;politically correct&quot; historians and  novelists anxious to downplay the British contribution to victory over  Germany.  When I saw Gregory Peck in that movie for the first time, I was  looking at Bomber Harris, struggling alone to give back what he and his  people had received.  Yes, German cities and villages were almost  obliterated by that bombing.  I can only say that a nation stupid enough to  vote for Adolf Hitler because he had a nice voice and was handy at finding  scapegoats, and stupid enough to commit massive genocide, deserved to  receive back some of what they had done to others.  Montgomery, Slim,  Harris, Mountbatten.  We need a few good men like them.	2000-05-05
US	49775207	R1IMP3BNRQ8OM1	0815410220	338855770	Defeat Into Victory: Battling Japan in Burma and India, 1942-1945	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Viscount Field Marshall Slim's Defeat Into Victory	I can't make a better review than Newt Gingrich's review elsewhere in this section, and I agree with him that it starts out slow, but I consider it a 5 star book.  Like Field Marshall Montgomery (see my review of him), Slim exhibits a level of moral character and courage that we all need as a model  now and in the future.  The public needs to stop being hypnotized by  handsome or pretty faces and start looking for what we used to call  &quot;guts&quot;.  It's the stuff that counts when you're under fire, real  or imagined.  It's the stuff that our ancestors had when they turned defeat  into victory.  Defeat either kills you or builds and brings out character.   Audie Murphy knew that, fighting when outnumbered &quot;hopelessly&quot;  until he became our most decorated soldier.  It's not Cool that trains us.   It's heat - painful, unpleasant, long term.  Slim knew that, coming from  the nation and the people that survived things like the bombing of London  and the Battle of Britain, just as its predecessors survived Napoleon and  Ancient Rome.	2000-05-03
US	49775207	R3IY7RP1FEAXL5	0671568000	609041298	A G-Man's Journal	Books	5	4	8	N	N	Revell's A G-Man's Journal	The nice thing about freedom of speech is that it helps one to learn the truth.  I recommend this book for a well written viewpoint and a non-abusive style from the former Assistant Director of the FBI (with the help of Dwight Williams).  Presumably his &quot;nemesis&quot; under  Clinton, Director Freeh, has a book written by himself somewhere, and it  will only be fair to compare the versions of the two books.  In fact, I  think that an outstanding Management Course could be made by assigning  Revell's book, Freeh's book (or future book - I don't know if it exists),  and Bonanno's book giving one of the more enlightened Mafia viewpoints (see  my review of the latter).  Revell appears to have been an outstanding  manager from this book, and some readers may not understand why.  Revell  has a military type discipline viewpoint with an exceptional respect for  justice and fairness rather than firing senior employees arbitrarily or  because of political orders or downsizing attempts.  It's the type of  discipline that Field Marshall Montgomery had (see my review of his book),  and to some extent General Eisenhower.  Whether he violated law for  patriotic reasons I do not know, and whether he is right about Freeh's  motivations - that, only comparisons between sources of evidence can  reveal.  His strong opinion that J. Edgar Hoover was not a homosexual is  quite interesting, since Great Britain has found for example that freedom  of speech without respect for the public can lead to very erroneous  conclusions, innuendoes, etc.  As for Bonanno, his idea that the Mafia  should not sell dope is quite an honorable proposal (it seems to me).	2000-04-29
US	49775207	R1PSXZBZAATLO1	0780334949	51860099	Neural Networks: A Comprehensive Foundation	Books	5	7	19	N	N	Haykin's Neural Networks	Read the other reviewers below for more details and various viewpoints.  Here I'm assuming that you will hire a reputable consultant or tutor to either translate the book into ordinary English more or less or to teach you the mathematics behind it.  Neural networks are important for everybody  to understand because this is one of the important directions that  computers and robotics are taking: learning things.  As you move into this  book, you'll discover that there are important categories that such  learning machines fall into: learning with a teacher (that is, with some  examples for the machine to learn from) or without a teacher (with no such  examples), also called supervised versus unsupervised learning.  There's  also learning without or with feedback (including subtypes of feedforward  networks with short-term memory, associative memory, and recurrent networks  which use input-output mapping or relationships).  Even high school and  college students who wonder why they have to learn statistics and  probability may be astonished to discover that some of the most effective  learning machines involve statistics and probability.  They fall into  various categories such as maximum entropy (literally maximizing the  entropy), maximum likelihood (again, the idea of maximizing likelihood as  used in everyday language is a rough approximation, though the mathematical  one is much more precise), minimizing the energy (Hopfield networks),  minimizing mean square error (literally minimizing squares of statistical  errors, though there is more to it), etc.  In the last category mentioned  fall (mostly) Kalman filter-predictors, which I worked on at the Defense  Department in the 1980s.  I'm currently more interested in the use of  maximum entropy methods combined with the others, since my field of  logic-based probability (LBP) is closely related to maximum entropy.  See  some of my other reviews for discussion of various of these topics,  including statistics and probability.  Haykin and Prentice Hall have done a  very good job with this difficult and encyclopedic material.	2000-04-29
US	49775207	R3DJ818B1K0163	0387971734	320511878	Chaos in Classical and Quantum Mechanics (Interdisciplinary Applied Mathematics) (v. 1)	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Gutzwiller's Chaos in Classical and Quantum Mechanics	The first thing a non-specialist should do is to hire a reputable consultant or tutor to translate this book into approximately ordinary English, but it would be a bad mistake to miss this book because it is full of remarkable ideas that apply to almost every field.  To show you how  translation would work, it turns out that doughtnuts (torus, plural tori in  math) are key to classical and quantum chaos.  You might ask: why  doughtnuts, instead of, say, balls (beachballs, tennis balls, microscopic  balls, etc.)?   Well, let's consider a person's head as a ball.  You can  comb a person's hair flat on his head, but not without a part or  irregularity (eddy) somewhere - see page 33 of the book, which says this is  slightly different words.  On a doughnut, however, you can comb hair flat  without any irregularities.  The hair with the directions in which they  point are called vectors in mathematics, and all together they form a  vector field.  Chaos occurs when these doughtnuts get disturbed, say by  raising the energy (perturbations).  Gutzwiller of IBM New York pioneered  the study of the relationship between classical and quantum chaos, but  anybody who has read IBM books or manuals know that they usually require  heavy translation.  If you absolutely can't find a math or physics  consultant or tutor, go through Gutzwiller's book page by page until you  find something like this which you can understand, and keep reading the  comprehensible paragraphs.	2000-04-29
US	49775207	R9A3Q12YNB2KC	0465003850	246639157	Anxiety Disorders And Phobias: A Cognitive Perspective	Books	5	47	58	N	N	Beck's Anxiety Disorders and Phobias - Cognitive Perspective	Every day, veterans of the Vietnam War commit suicide in deep depression.  With the United States almost continually cutting its Veterans Administration budget, you would think that the V.A. would give up, but  books like those of Beck help it treat and cure depression and anxiety.   The Cognitive Therapy uses Socratic questioning, training people to ask why  they feel sad or anxious, what their answers mean, to substitute more  effective coping thoughts for ineffective thoughts and wrong ideas  (illogical ideas, like &quot;everybody is against me,&quot; &quot;I'm born  to fail,&quot; etc.).  Patients record in diaries or logs what events  trigger these wrong thoughts and learn to instantly respond with other  thoughts and actions.  This is one of the greatest books in psychology and  psychiatry, and should be read by the young people of all ages (many of  whom are depressed) as well as the older ones.	2000-04-25
US	49775207	R2YKM5N3BDHEFN	0070427267	479333555	Schaum's Outline of Theory and Problems of Operations Management (Schaum's Outline Series)	Books	5	10	10	N	N	Schaum's Outline of Operations Management	Professor Monks has done an excellent job of summarizing and giving worked out problems for a very useful field of industry that is often neglected in pure and applied mathematics.  This neglect, especially at the pre-college level but also at higher levels, makes it harder for management and  operations research college instructors to convey the quantitative methods  to their students.  These methods are fascinating and include statistical  forecasting (with time series and exponential smoothing, correlation,  regression), statistical quality control, production scheduling and control  (linear programming, dynamic programming), manufacturing /service and  maintenance (queuing theory, reliability, simulation, calculus), budgeting,  inventory, etc.  I recommend this book for everybody in business for  themselves or for others and for students at all levels in order to tie in  their studies more practically with the real economic world.  In addition,  the more people are familiar with the methods, the less employment mistakes  will be made since so many of the methods interact with hiring, firing,  temporary layoffs, etc.  With more talent in the field, alternative methods  can be developed and tried (for example, present theory assumes that a lot  of things involve independent or non-influencing events, but a lot of  events are very interdependent and the theory needs far more development  there - see my review of Castillo).	2000-04-25
US	49775207	R15G70YJEBRAZH	0312203888	26961942	Bound by Honor: A Mafioso's Story	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Bonanno's Bound By Honor: A Mafioso's Story	This is a fascinating book.  At the risk of arguing with Mr. Bonanno, I should point out that anger and honor do not go together very well, no matter how just the cause may seem.  According to him, the Mafia is  descended from the Sicilian underground which fought for Sicilian  independence when foreigners invaded, and he criticizes some of the  upstarts and street toughs (especially with holdings in Cuba and the East  Coast) who took over the American Mafia and moved it toward Dope and other  non-Sicilian interests.  However, without rage and anger, I doubt whether  such things would have occurred (if they did).  Bonanno also attacks the  FBI's CoIntelPro (Counterintelligence program) for helping to destroy the  Mafia's power, as well as the wrong decision of the upstarts to deal in  dope, and claims that the Florida Mafia assassinated President Kennedy for  botching the Bay of Pigs invasion.  I have no idea whether these were true  or not, though it is quite possible, but I again point out that anger,  whether on the good side or the bad side, is one of those things that  enables the overstepping of power.  We need some anger to start fighting  back, but we need Love and Calmness to triumph.	2000-04-22
US	49775207	R1DW94U3WZ7NHJ	1584880082	452684411	Semimartingales and their Statistical Inference (Chapman & Hall/CRC Monographs on Statistics & Applied Probability)	Books	5	2	8	N	N	Rao's Semimartingales and their statistical inference	This book and the journal articles on which it is based pioneer a new branch of statistics.  The reader who is unfamiliar with semimartingales can think of them as a generalization of supermartingales, where the latter  are roughly a sequence of variables whose means increase and such that each  variable is bigger than its conditional mean (a conditional mean is the  mean of one thing or variable with another thing or variable fixed).  Intuitively, when you use semimartingales to approximate or model something  in the real world, you are approximating its mean by a sequence of  increasing or decreasing means or alternately both, keeping track of where  and when the means increase or decrease inside the mathematics.  This  allows you to make fewer assumptions than usual about how the things that  you are modeling behave, since roughly you only have to keep track of the  means.  This has an advantage over computer techniques now in common use  such as linear and polynomial regression.  This book shows that you can  actually make statistical estimates for the unknown quantities in your  model for large samples (&quot;asymptotically&quot;).  The reader is  cautioned that a somewhat parallel but interesting theory exists with  conditional means replaced by logic-based probability (LBP) means, which is  to say that division is replaced by subtraction and adding 1 to the result.  The latter allows study of very rare events since it is defined when  events have probability zero, and also other events of importance.  See  some of my reviews of other mathematics books or my articles abstracted on  the internet at the Institute for Logic of the University of Vienna for LBP  methods.	2000-04-22
US	49775207	R3HH40O2VCG5IO	0878915192	844053256	The Mechanics Problem Solver	Books	5	19	24	N	N	ogden and Fogel's Mechanics Problems Solvers	This and the 1995 similar book by Fogel are full of a wealth of worked out problems and should be  a must for physics and engineering students.  Many of the problems resemble non-worked-out problems in textbooks, so students  can learn methods applicable to their own school texts.  Sometimes problems  of the same category are scattered in different chapters, so be sure to  consult the index under many variations of the same theme and different  words in the same topic.  The usual cautions about putting the essence of  the problems on flash cards need to be made (not more than 2 ordinary  handwritten lines on front and back of a 3x5 card, etc.), and the student  should not use this book before learning exactly what the theorems and  definitions say (also to be put on flash cards and learned before doing the  problems), since there is almost no way to remember or even recognize the  profusion of problems for an examination without some organization,  condensation, summarization, and learning of the basic ideas behind them.	2000-04-22
US	49775207	R1B4O1K94SWFXH	0716718235	485744196	Electromagnetic Fields and Waves	Books	5	23	26	N	N	Paul Lorrain's Electromagnetic Fields and Waves	Readers should start a campaign to reprint and/or get a new edition of this book. Professor Paul Lorrain is not only a recipient of the Legion of Honor of France and the equivalent of Montreal, Canada, but his book is a work of CREATIVE GENIUS.  His problems contain very interesting  applications of electromagnetism which both the public and specialists can  identify with, including magnetic monopoles (very strange theoretical  entities with only one pole instead of the usual north and south poles of  magnets - see my reviews of Kursunoglu, Frolov, Klapdor-Kleingothaus, etc.)  that are predicted by physics Grand Unified Theories, superconductors  which have turned out to have remarkably important uses today (and the  ferromagnetism which is closely related to them), the earth's magnetic  field which is related to modern geophysics, hysteresis which is related to  an important modern branch of nonlinear mathematics as well, artificial  satellites which are so important today, solar wind which is extremely  important today, and even the theory of continuous creation of electric  charge.  In addition, there are many chapters on electromagnetics in  relativity (see my reviews of Weinberg and Misner et al.), Maxwell's  equations, magnetic fields, electric fields, plane electromagnetic waves  (see my review of A. Bohm), guided waves, radiation.  Lorrain makes  electromagnetism interesting, open minded on new ideas, and  interdisciplinary, all characteristics of Creative Genius.  The general  public should also hire consultants or tutors to summarize this book or  even teach it to them - it is well worth the effort because its ideas apply  to fields far beyond physics.  It should be mentioned that Lorrain et al  give excellent summaries in the book, but the general reader might want  some of them translated into closer to elementary mathematics or even  approximately English.	2000-04-18
US	49775207	RHMYXJ1U2C5RT	311015594X	842814340	Geometry, Topology and Physics (De Gruyter Proceedings in Mathematics)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Apanasov et al's Geometry, Topology, and Physics	The rapidly rising Brazilian, Mexican, and other Latin American schools in mathematics and physics are contributors to this remarkable volume published by Walter de Gruyter: Berlin.  I will concentrate here on the  article by J. Vaz, Jr., one of the world's greatest mathematicians and  physicists.  In the following, I assume that the reader who is not a  specialist in this area will hire a reputable consultant or tutor to  translate the book into approximately ordinary English or elementary  math/physics, since the book gives valuable lessons for almost every field  of interest.  Vaz's paper is &quot;Clifford algebra's and Witten's Monopole  Equations.&quot;  See my reviews of Chisholm, Okubo, Benn, Baylis,  Kursunoglu, and others on monopoles and Clifford algebras for some simple  explanations.  E. Witten is with the Institute for Advanced Study at  Princeton.  It turns out that GUTs (Grand Unified Theories of the  Elementary Forces and Particles) predict the existence of monopoles, which  have the remarkable property of being either north or south poles but not  both, unlike all magnets that we are familiar with in daily life.  Dirac  and then t'Hooft have come up with basic monopole equations, and now Witten  has also, and Vaz analyzes these using Clifford algebras.   He reformulates  Witten's equations in Maxwell equation form using the idea of operator  spinors, and then obtains a representation without spinors and another  representation with an SU(2) connection related to the spinor connection  with values in the Lie algebra of SU(2).  An important theorem, the  inversion theorem, is a major tool used by Vaz.  The final reformulation  involves the spinor covariant derivative acting on spinors.  Lie algebras  are so remarkable that I will try to give some simple definitions for them  in subsequent reviews of books on Lie algebras.	2000-04-17
US	49775207	RRXX4VK643LUV	0874779758	115754087	Entering Space	Books	5	2	2	N	N	Zubrin's Entering Space	The Editor and most other customers have given great reviews of this book, and I'd like to add a few points.  This book gives the case for exploring space.  It shows the tremendous insight of President John F. Kennedy in  launching the space era and the political budget-cutting pressures for  trying to destroy the space era.  It includes some of the most ingenious  inventions for space travel, including the use of superconductors and  magnetic sails.  One reader has criticized the book's equations (there are  only a few of them), which actually are ordinary algebra.  The solution is  not to abandon the book but hire a reputable consultant or tutor to explain  the equations and translate them into close to ordinary English.  As for  the reader who thinks we are alone in space, it is hard to believe that  after the discovery of so many stars with planets in the universe.  I do  think that we need more job security for aerospace engineers, and one way  might be to not fire them when downsizing before we find other jobs for  them.  By the way, Zubrin's Mars Society is on the internet and there is a  local branch at Caltech.	2000-04-16
US	49775207	R8NYRMFH9ODF5	0465026567	296214142	Gdel, Escher, Bach: An Eternal Golden Braid	Books	5	4	5	N	N	Hofstadter's Godel, Escher, Bach	This Pulitzer Prize winning book should be read by everyone, but with a few cautions.  Don't expect to be able to understand the book thoroughly unless you are an expert in mathematical logic, classical music, and art.   I recommend hiring a reputable consultant or tutor to translate the book  into more brief, concise, and easily understood English (at least,  approximately).  Hofstadter does not believe in short summaries, at least  in this book.  See my review of Marshall and Zohar, who have a much briefer  summary of Godel (2-3 pages, roughly), and once you read that book you can  tackle Hoftstadter's explanation of Godel's proof.  Most people also miss  the point that Mathematical Logic is of remarkable importance for all areas  of knowledge (that was Godel's field) - see my reviews of Hajek, Hodges,  and others in this respect.  Another point is that Bach, one of the  greatest classical composers, was a mathematical genius, and music and  mathematics often go together (see some of my classical music and  country/popular music reviews).	2000-04-16
US	49775207	RDST2TYFVV16V	0764506749	380137645	The Internet for Dummies	Books	5	2	14	N	N	Levine et al's Internet for Dummies	The Editor has done an excellent job of reviewing, as usual, and I just want to add a few details.  Levine has a Ph.D. in computer science from Yale, and Young also has a Degree from Yale.  You generally cannot go wrong  with a mathematics, physics, or computer science book from Harvard, Yale,  Princeton, MIT, etc.  The ability to translate difficult concepts into  ordinary English for all people requires Creative Genius of the highest  order.  See my reviews of some of the Schaum's Outlines and Scientific  American for more on this, and some of my other mathematics and physics  book reviews discuss it too.  Translating in these fields requires moving  from quantitative to qualitative or verbal language, and it often helps  inspire the expert as much as the reader with new ideas.  Levine et al are  experts at summarizing, alphabetizing, isolating the core concepts,  isolating errors and counterexamples, all of them key skills in translating  into ordinary English.	2000-04-16
US	49775207	R2576PPTYFUPSO	0312209118	831358716	Are You as Smart as You Think?: 150 Original Mathematical, Logical, and Spatial-Visual Puzzles for All Levels of Puzzle Solvers	Books	5	16	28	N	N	Stickels' Are You as Smart as You Think	Stickels and Gardner are among the top popularizers of mathematics and science (see my and other readers' book reviews of Gardner's books, including his early 1980 books).  This takes the highest type of Creative  Genius, because translating from quantitative to qualitative or verbal  language requires mastery of both and of the underlying concepts, and  developing puzzles and problems for the public requires inventiveness and  creativity beyond translating.  Here I want to emphasize that Stickels' and  Gardner's methods can lead to enormous improvement in student learning of  mathematics and science and even in research in these fields, especially in  topics that have not yet been analyzed.  For example, my work in  Logic-Based Probability (LBP) asks the simple question: what happens if you  replace division by subtraction and add 1 in all equations of probability  and statistics?  The answer is that you get LBP, which is very important  for analyzing very rare events and the influences of events.  If it gets  this simple, we could have a whole nation of inventors trying out different  operations and different changes in assumptions.  Einstein's general  relativity came about largely because some mathematicians asked: what  happens if things that look parallel (like tracks running in the same  direction) eventually come together?  This created Non-Euclidean Geometry.	2000-04-16
US	49775207	R1WEI3TN63ZD0	0521587131	508139383	A Shorter Model Theory	Books	5	13	77	N	N	Hodges' Model Theory	This book and its 1993 expanded version are in the field of Mathematical Logic, and Hodges of London University shows that model theory in particular has had a remarkable variety of applications to other branches  of mathematics, including computers (Prolog, undecidability, etc. - see my  reviews of Penrose, Ablamowitz et al, etc.), geometry (see my reviews of  advanced geometry via Clifford algebras, including Chisholm and geometric  physics including Misner et al, and elementary geometry including Schaum's  Outlines), topology (see my review of Greene's Elegant Universe which uses  string theory and topology and also Carlip's book), algebra (see my Review  of Weinberg's Gravitation and Cosmology which uses algebraic, topological,  and analytic methods in general relativity, and Nachtmann's book which uses  algebra in quantum theory), analysis/advanced calculus (see my review of  Clarke, Yu, Nedyaev et al, Zwillinger's books, etc.), and so on.  This book  is in the Cambridge Encyclopedia of Mathematics and its Applications  series, volume 42.  Like most books of the Cambridge Encyclopedia series,  it is very thorough up to the date of its publication - probably the most  thorough book on model theory, which is roughly what is sounds like:  mathematical models (of the physical and mathematical worlds).  British  Universities are among the world's greatest Creative Genius universities in  math and physics, and this book is no exception.  Most people should hire a  reputable consultant or tutor to help them understand and  &quot;translate&quot; the book, which will be well worth the effort in  almost every field.	2000-04-15
US	49775207	R38W3HZM9D1R9S	0070540187	780200041	Schaum's Outline of Quantum Mechanics (Schaum's)	Books	5	16	23	N	N	Schaum's Quantum Mechanics	The rapidly rising Israeli science represented by Peleg et al. produced here an unusually concise, clear, and well organized presentation of a complicated subject with the benefits of worked out problems.  They managed  to do this with little sacrifice of detail, providing a mathematical  background chapter and even a chapter on the foundations of quantum  mechanics with six postulates and a discussion of the Schrodinger versus  Heisenberg pictures.  Dirac's bra and ket notation is explained and used  frequently, and the difficult subject of spin receives its own chapter.   The book keeps up with latest trends in mathematical and physics research  by having three chapters on solution/approximation methods (one of the main  recent trends in mathematics and physics is obtaining solutions and  approximations for equations including those of Schrodinger, Einstein,  Navier-Stokes).  The complicated topic of scattering theory receives its  own chapter, as do angular momentum and radiation by semiclassical  treatment.  For more detailed works, see my reviews of Cao, Carlip,  Kursunoglu, etc., and also the book Quasi-classical Methods.	2000-04-15
US	49775207	R2VUS1QT8VJUX3	038797783X	980479237	An Introduction to Stochastic Processes and Their Applications (Springer Series in Statistics)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Todorovic's Stochastic Processes and Applications	This is one of the most thorough and detailed books that I have ever seen on stochastic (that is to say, probabilistic) processes with applications, even more thorough than most textbooks that I have seen in West Coast  universities.   He has a chapter on second-order processes, one on spectral  analysis of sationary processes, one on Gaussian processes, several  chapters on Markov processes including one chapter on semigroup  applications to Markov processes.  Concerning the latter, the reader should  look at some of my reviews of semigroup books, such as One-Parameter  Semigroups by Engel et al., Right-Ordered Groups by Medvedev and Kopytov,  etc.  Semigroups are a branch of algebra which tremendously simplifies and  unifies other fields such as stochastic processes, functional analysis,  mathematical logic, etc.  Readers who are not specialists in mathematics as  well as those who are should request that this book be reprinted and  purchase it and learn it with the help of a consultant or tutor (even if  the latter just translates it into closer to ordinary English) because the  ideas are so useful for many outside fields.  If enough people request it,  perhaps it will be reprinted.  It is published by Springer-Verlag, New York  and Berlin and Heidelberg, 1992, and is part of the Springe Series in  Statistics.  Springer-Verlag/Springer are especially outstanding for their  ability to translate things into ordinary English better than most  companies, their ingenious organizing ability and clarity of presentation  and printing, their selection of up to date issues and research topics, and  their general Creative Genius.	2000-04-14
US	49775207	R3AOAAI5L79NOQ	0412043718	443361263	A Course in Large Sample Theory (Chapman & Hall/CRC Texts in Statistical Science)	Books	5	12	15	N	N	Ferguson's Course in Large Sample Theory	It is almost impossible not to recommend a book by Professor Ferguson, and this book is no exception.  I will deviate slightly from typical book reviewers to mention a few noteworthy things common to Professor Ferguson's  books.  First of all, he writes mathematics clearly, concisely, logically,  and in an organized manner.  He is therefore an exception to the typical  mathematics researcher whose writings look like running notes from a  gauntlet runner or a gladiator running from a lion in an ancient Roman  arena.  I first learned graduate statistics from his 1966 book which I  believe is titled Decision Theory or Statistical Decision Theory, and that  book is as up to date in its information (aside from incorporating  intervening studies) as though it were written today.  Readers even outside  mathematics should demand a reprint of that book if they want to learn real  statistics.  Professor Ferguson's character (I have met him) is as honest  and open and logical as his books.  His books do involve Lebesgue  integration, as some other reviewers have mentioned, and I recommend that  even non-statisticians hire a consultant or tutor to either teach them  Lebesgue integration or to translate into approximate English or at least  elementary mathematical language what Lebesgue integration does.  I will  try to discuss it myself either in a later addition to this book review or  in another book review.  My only criticism of Ferguson's books concerns the  lack of representation of probabilistic alternatives to Bayesian methods  (which I have been developing since 1980) in which, instead of dividing  probabilities one substracts them and adds a constant.  These have the  advantage of being defined even when events have probability zero, unlike  (Bayesian) conditional probability, and probability zero events are  surprisingly common (e.g., lower dimensional events, extremely rare events  assuming continuous random variables, etc.)unlike most people's impression  - precisely because of arguments involving Lebesgue type integration.  You  can find abstracts of some of my papers on this at the Institute for Logic  of the University of Vienna (on the internet).	2000-04-13
US	49775207	R10J3YZQ62NSDI	0387983104	125873509	Quasiclassical Methods (The IMA Volumes in Mathematics and its Applications)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	Rauch and Simon's Quasiclassical Methods	Rauch of U. Michigan and Simon of Caltech edit this volume for the IMA (Institute for Mathematics and its Applications, University of Minnesota).  It deserves 5 stars for the depth and complexity and importance for physics  applications, but not for simplicity or even ability to communicate with  the public.  For the latter two things, the reader should hire a reputable  consultant or tutor to translate.  IMA is published by Springer, which is  usually noted for its clarity, simplicity, and ability to translate for  non-specialists.  However, IMA and a few other institutes and even  publishing companies direct themselves solely to specialists and to  industrial applications and to very recent results that have not yet been  translated even for most other theoreticians.  It will be necessary to  split this book review into several  parts (hopefully) in order to give  some flavor of the book.  Here a few definitions and directions will be  indicated.  We are talking quantum mechanics for very small Planck's  constant, h, in which case classical physics plays a key role.  When h is  very small, quantum mechanical objects become unusually big, which is  another way of looking at this book.  The large Z limit of atomic  Hamiltonians (think of the Hamiltonian as an energy operator) is the area  of current research, together with Weyl asymptotics.  The latter refers to  the classical results of Weyl, one of the greatest algebraic theorists of  all time, that some very important things become determined by volumes in  this region (technically, eigenvalue distributions of elliptic operators on  compact manifolds become more and more determined by volume, which will  hopefully be clarified later).  In this &quot;twilight zone&quot; region,  we are dealing with heavy molecules in strong magnetic fields, gaps in the  (essential) spectrum where semiconductors and insulators have impurities  that create new energy levels and thus affect conduction, color, and so on.   The resultsare also applicable to linear wave equations whose initial  data are very oscillatory and whose solutions involve geometric optics rays  which are solutions of ordinary differential equations  (rate/speed/acceleration type equations ) even though the original problem  involves partial differential equations (rate equations with multiple  variables all of which except one are held fixed or constant).	2000-04-12
US	49775207	R336UEBDJPI8W	0849324793	440474044	CRC Standard Mathematical Tables and Formulae, 30th Edition	Books	5	20	29	N	N	Zwillinger's CRC Standard Math Tables &amp; Formulae	Zwillinger is an incomparable genius at organizing data, information, theory.  See my review of his Handbook of Differential Equations, which is the best thing in its field and which the reader should also purchase  regardless of whether currently into differential equations.  The other  reviewers have done a gone job noting details of this book.  Here I would  like to answer why tables and formulas are needed in a day when hand  computers are everywhere.  The answer is that we have to learn to think in  terms of tables and formulas to keep at the top of our fields (for example,  how many of you know that general relativity is based on sets of tables  called tensors?).  Computers today are stil mostly not for thinking but for  doing long calculations which involve repetition rather than innovative  thinking.  Make your hobby tables, formulas, equations, inequalities, and  you might pass Life 101.	2000-04-10
US	49775207	R19WD7233DLMBE	3540643052	370112172	Irreversibility and Causality: Semigroups and Rigged Hilbert Spaces (Lecture Notes in Physics)	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Bohm et al.'s Irreversibility and Causality	Professor David Ruelle of France has a whole chapter on irreversibility in his book Chance and Chaos (see my review).  Ievitably increasing entropy (disorder) is an example of an irreversible phenomenon, according to  thermodynamics.  The present book's editors are mostly from the University  of Texas and Mexico.  They have done an outstanding job in identifying the  errors in the old Hilbert space formulation of quantum mechanics, including  the facts that neither plane waves nor delta functions are finitely square  integrable (the reader can think of this roughly as a lack of finiteness  property) and neither are the eigenvectors of points of the continuous  spectrum of self-adjoint operators (self adjoint operators are mathematical  descriptions of things that can be observed in physics as opposed to only  &quot;theoretical&quot; or even non-observable objects, which descriptions  themselves are criticized by one of the authors in the book, Antoine of  Belgium, as involving nonmathematical operational content).  Also, Hilbert  spaces (HS for short) cannot support unsmeared field operators and in  general very singular operators (they end up with domain zero). Separable  HSs are isomorphic (this means roughly that they correspond algebraically  or mathematically to each other very exactly), but quantum systems  supposedly described by them turn out not to be.  There is only time here  to say that this book and the papers on which it was based essentially  remedied the problem by expanding Hilbert spaces to slightly more general  spaces, which was an ingenious achievement.  However, I believe that they  may have to be expanded more severely to Banach spaces (which I may discuss  in a later review of the book).  Readers unfamiliar with the mathematics  should hire reputable consultants or tutors to translate the book into a  closer approximation to English, in order to keep up with one of the most  important areas of quantum theory and to hopefully learn to use similar  techniques in their own fields when needed.	2000-04-09
US	49775207	R1LIXILMS2XAPV	0387504966	851823756	Elementary Particle Physics: Concepts and Phenomena (Texts & Monographs in Physics)	Books	5	3	5	N	N	Nachtmann's Elementary Particle physics	This out-of-print book deserves to be reprinted and bought by everyone.  It is a mathematical physics version of the popular books on elementary forces and elementary particles except gravitation: the electromagnetic,  strong, and weak forces, which occur in quantum electrodynamics (QED),  quantum chromdynamics (QCD), and quantum flavor dynamics (QFD) as well as  the standard and and grand unified models.  The reader without the  mathematical background should buy the book and hire a good consultant or  tutor to translate the book into almost ordinary English or even to teach  the mathematics involved.  The Editor and some other reviewers have  commented on the easy to read bold face print.  Most people do not realize  how rare the use of easy to read print is in physics.  It is more common in  mathematics, thanks largely to Springer/Springer-Verlag publishers in  Germany where Nachtmann is one of the outstanding physics algebraic  theorists.  Nachtmann emphasizes Lagrangian densities and the Hamiltonians  and Least Action Principle related to them, which is one of the highest  level and most effective concepts in all of science and mathematics and  should be understood by people in other fields as well.  I have argued  elsewhere that Lagrangians are a fundamental mathematical logic basis of  the universe (sort of a Kurt Godel type argument in physics - recall the  prize-winning book Godel, Bach, and Escher), but Nachtmann's approach is  algebraic and experimental.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	R1D8EZOFV80FLG	0121634752	737488188	Extreme Value Theory in Engineering (Statistical Modeling and Decision Science)	Books	5	33	35	N	N	Castillo's Extreme Value Theory in Engineering	This is one of the best books that I have every read in engineering.  Castillo and a few others like Galambos were some of the first people to realize the importance of extreme values.  A maximum is an example of an  extreme value, because it is the top or highest value.  Likewise for a  minimum.  These extremes behave quite differently from most ordinary things  and have a mathematics and engineering all of their own.  They have been  applied also to other fields where &quot;extremes&quot; in an intuitive  sense exist, such as extreme accidents in car insurance (long chain  collisions of cars in the fog, heights of waves in the ocean, etc.).  They  are also closely related to one of the most important new research areas in  mathematics: large deviations or rare events theory (see my reviews of  Dembo and others).  The Gumbel, Weibull, and Frechet probability  distributions are important in this area.  Those readers who are not  specialists should buy the book anyway and hire a consultant or tutor to  translate the mathematics into closer to ordinary English, because extreme  as well as rare events occur almost everywhere.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	R3FTYYSAWVV1QX	0750304030	123392168	Particle Astrophysics	Books	5	1	1	N	N	Klapdor-Kleingrothaus &amp; Zuber's Particle Astrophysics (KKZ)	Although this is a graduate level astrophysics test, I recommend that everyone purchase it and hire a consultant or tutor to translate it into closer to ordinary English.  This book goes where popular science usually  stops: into the details of space, time, and elementary particles.  It is  written by a member of the Max-Planck Institute in Heidelberg, one of the  world's most famous institutes of physics, and is full of both experimental  and theoretical results on dark matter, quasars, galaxy formation,  monopoles, neutrinos, axioms, nucleosynthesis, etc.  Most topics have  entire chapters, whereas popular science books might just mention them.   For more on monopole theory and dark matter, see my reviews of Kursunoglu  and others.  KKZ have a whole section on Dirac monopoles, a whole section  on 't Hoof Polyakov monopoles.  My review of Cao does not emphasize this,  but Cao's book also is a good source for information on elementary  particles and physics-astrophysics relationships.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	R3IMMFE8JRSNH5	0688161073	611909944	Who's Afraid of Schrdinger's Cat? An A-to-Z Guide to All the New Science Ideas You Need to Keep Up with the New Thinking	Books	5	9	14	N	N	Marshall, Zohar, and Peat's (MZP) Schrodinger's Cat	Although this is a popular science book, it is, as the Editor has indicated, extremely well organized and categorized.  In fact, I have seldom seen a book organized to this degree.  It compares and distinguishes  (&quot;discriminates&quot;) concepts which are easily confused with each  other and which are seldom compared.  This process of comparison in  psychology is called DISCRIMINATION, and I want to put in a few good words  in favor of it.  I have urged readers in some of my other reviews of make  flash cards based on books in order to better understand them, but nothing  works as well as flash cards based on discrimination between concepts that  are similar or in a similar category.  I will try to do more justice to the  contents in a later review, but this book is the place to start large-scale  discrimination.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	R3S846QXEIN5EY	0792351460	710521167	Black Hole Physics: Basic Concepts and New Developments (Fundamental Theories of Physics)	Books	5	3	14	N	N	Frolov and Novikov's Black Hole Physics	I referenced these authors and also Klapdor-Kleingrothaus and Zuber (see my review of their book) in my paper on Quantum Gravity delivered before Professor Kursunoglu's Orbis Scientiae Quantum Gravity conference in  December, 1999 (see my review of Kursunoglu).  The Editor has summarized  the book in his usual excellent way, and here I should just add that there  is much material in this book not covered in others, including  relationships with 2+1 dimensional quantum gravity (see my review of  Carlip, black holes inside monopoles, dilatons, quantum hair, etc.   Everyone should buy this book and, if necessary, hire a consultant or tutor  to translate it into more simple English.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	RA1JXKN4FKSMM	0313291195	537575713	Field Marshal Bernard Law Montgomery, 1887-1976: A Selected Bibliography (Bibliographies of Battles and Leaders)	Books	5	5	13	N	N	Field Marshall Montgomery	This and its predecessors are books for all seasons about a man for all seasons.  We all owe our lives to him.  It is a book for the hard working and the pampered, for nations that cut funds for their Veterans  Administrations like the United States has almost continually done, and for  parents who wonder how much more to pamper their little darlings so that  they will be loved as fathers and mothers.  Montgomery beat the best that  Hitler could send against him and us, and he did the same wherever he was  sent.  His expertise was strategy, not politics, not taking advantage of  interns or skipping out on his wife.  We need a few more like him.	2000-04-08
US	49775207	RWS3LL01FX7O9	0471356751	551549848	Scientific American: Science Desk Reference	Books	5	18	27	N	N	Scientific American Desk Reference	The Editor as usual has given an outstanding review of the book, and I would like to add a few thoughts.  Scientific American, the journal, is probably the greatest source of scientific inspiration for the general public except popular science books.  What the public may not know is that  scientists also get considerable inspiration from Scientific American,  although they usually do not cite it in their scientific articles because  it is not monitored by their particular departmental bureaucracies and  appeals to the general public rather than only specialists.  An example of  an article that most scientists would not find except through the  Scientific American is the article &quot;Quantum Teleportation&quot; by  Anton Zeilinger of the University of Vienna in the April 2000 issue of  Scientific American.  The ability and interest of Scientific American in  communicating difficult and specialized science to the public and  translating it and summarizing it for the public is nothing less than  Creative Genius, and in my opinion Creative Genius (as opposed to Ingenious  Followers or Follower Genius) usually goes together with interest in  communicating with and translating to the public.	2000-04-06
US	49775207	R3BS6X3AIW8M24	0070527660	20624894	Schaum's Outline of Geometry	Books	5	69	70	N	N	Schaum's Outline of Geometry	This is not only the best elementary geometry (and related subjects) outline, but also the best text in its field, in my opinion.  The student will find as many theorems and definitions as in very long and detailed  texts, presented much more concisely and in a much more organized fashion  here in categories that are easily understood.  As with my review of  Schaum's algebra, I recommend strongly that the student make flash cards  from Schaum's theorems and definitions before trying to work out or even  read the numerous solved problems by themselves.  Close to 95% of students,  in my opinion, make the mistake of doing massive amounts of geometry  problems and homework before learning what the theorems and definitions  say.  This is like trying to learn to play the violin by playing symphonies  before one knows how to move the bow and fingers, and is probably the main  cause of middle school, high school, and college elementary geometry  failure.	2000-04-06
US	49775207	R2SHVLQBGXXIRT	0817639071	524636506	Clifford Algebras with Numeric and Symbolic Computations	Books	5	6	8	N	N	Alamowicz et al.'s Clifford Algebras with Computations	This is the best book on Clifford algebra numeric and/or symbolic computations.  See my review of one of the editors, P. Lounesto, under his name.  The book illustrates the fact that algebras, unlike geometries, can be easily manipulated directly with computers (and Clifford algebras also  are used to handle geometric physics).  The editors make sure that each  contribution also advances the mathematical-physical theory of Clifford  algebras.  Packages MATHEMATICA and MAPLE (V) and REDUCE and LUCY are  prominent. Schmeikal of Vienna applies the theory to elementary particle  theory, with quarks as quantized states of orientation.  Gomez et al. of  Mexico have fascinating applications to crystallography including  &quot;quasicrystals&quot;, metal lic alloys with non-crystallographic  symmetry but sharp spotted diffraction patterns.  The non-specialist should  buy the book and, if necessary, hire a consultant or tutor to explain it in  closer to ordinary English. Lounesto, by the way, is in Finland with the  rapidly rising Finnish schools of science and mathematics.	2000-04-06
US	49775207	RZTS1EP2J61H4	0553293389	59623677	Foundation's Edge (Foundation Novels)	Books	5	8	10	N	N	Asimov's Foundation's Edge	This is as good as any of the original three books of the Foundation Trilogy, and is in my opinion a work of Creative Genius.  Some readers have commented on the seeming non-religious philosophy of the book, but although  the philosophy is somewhat strange (not to give away the ending), I think  that it is compatible with either a religious or non-religious viewpoint,  and furthermore Asimov intended further books to follow to develop his  themes further.  Others have indicated that his characters are  psychologically or emotionally lifeless, but the main characters Trevize  and Gendibal and Sura Novi and Mayor Branno and Pelorat are as alive as  most of Shakespeare's characters without the unnecessary violence.  In this  book, Asimov reveals himself to be a master of surprise, characterization,  conflict and its resolutions, and an openness to ethical and even  environmental questions. Most of all, perhaps, he is the ultimate opponent  of bureaucracies in this book, whether academic, political, or any others.   His conclusion is a bit confusing on this matter, but I do not think it was  intentional but rather was dictated largely by the element of surprise and  telling a good and entertaining story.	2000-04-05
US	49775207	R37BT2XTSYN3UD	0387985581	608085845	Determinants and Their Applications in Mathematical Physics (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	5	7	N	N	Vein and Dale's Determinants and Applications	This book, as usual by the excellent Springer publishers, continues the trend launched by the Clifford algebra people (Lounesto, Chisholm, Baylis, Pezzaglia, Okubo, Benn, etc. - see reviews of some of them), namely, to  SIMPLIFY the mathematics of physics by using appropriate ALGEBRAIC  techniques rather than geometry or calculus or other techniques.  Both this  book by Vein and Dale and the Clifford algebra books and papers use algebra  in physics largely to replace hard to manipulate geometry and unwieldly  matrices.  A matrix is an algebraic quantity, but it is very hard to  handle: it is essentially a table of numbers, for example a table of  people's heights, or people's heights by weights.  You add tables by adding  corresponding positions in each table, and likewise for subtracting, while  multiplication is much more complicated.  However, as Vein and Dale show,  you can replace many results in physics which involve matrices by  DETERMINANTS. A determinant is a single number, typically, which is gotten  by combining the numbers of the matrix table in a certain way given by a  formula.  Thus, replacing a matrix by a determinant means replacing a table  by a single number.  It turns out that the Einstein Equation(s) of general  relativity can be solved in this way (for the axially symmetric field), and  likewise for equations involving solitary waves (Kadomtsev-Petashvili  equation), waves in a rotating fluid (Benjamin-Ono equation), etc.  An  important tool in this process is Backlund transformations, which are  described in the appendix but are more thoroughly described in the 1989  book of Bluman and Kumei which (together with their journal publications)  initiated much of the simplification of differential equations of the  modern era.  That book, as you may guess, was also published by  Springer/Springer-Verlag.	2000-04-05
US	49775207	R1SQY96I8A67PT	0387969969	767197876	Symmetries and Differential Equations (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Bluman and Kumei's Symmetries and Differential Equations	This excellent book and the journal articles on which it was partly based launched the new era of simplifying solutions of differential equations used in physics.  See my review of Vein and Dale's book (1999) for more  details.  Differential equations as used here are equations which involve  speeds, accelerations, and in general rates of change at each time or  place.  To understand what Bluman and Kumei (BK for short) do in everyday  language, remember that an equation, such as E = m times c-squared,  involves variables like E (energy), m (mass).  BK had the idea of CHANGING  the variables to other variables (called SYMMETRY TRANSFORMATIONS)which are  easier to handle but which still work.  When the new variables ultimately  depend not only on the old variables but also on their rates of change or  speed, accelerations, etc., they are called LIE-BACKLUND SYMMETRIES, which  are often closely related to CONTACT SYMMETRIES (ones that only involve  speeds or single rates of change).  These play an important role in Vein  and Dale's book and in general in solutions of physics equations such as  the Korteweg-de Vries (KdV) and sine-Gordon equations.  In a later review,  I hope to describe also Bluman and Kumei's use of Lie groups and other  matters.	2000-04-05
US	49775207	R32HFBPQP7HYKF	0127843965	915170348	Handbook of Differential Equations, Third Edition	Books	5	30	32	N	N	Zwillinger's Handbook of Differential Equations	This and its predecessor of the late 1980s are the best compendiums of differential equation solution and approximation methods that I have ever seen in terms of (a) comparison of different methods, (b) number of methods  compared, (c) description of details of each method, (d) organization such  as alphabetizing under each category and categorization of methods, (e)  description of and comparison of where each method can be applied in the  physical and other sciences, both deterministic and  statistical/probabilistic (&quot;stochastic&quot;).  This accomplishment  cannot be overemphasized from the point of view of Creative Genius - in my  opinion, comparing and contrasting and organizing and summarizing data and  information are fundamental requirements for creative genius.  The book may  be intended as a reference book, but it should really be used also as a  textbook provided that the teacher overviews the areas and gives some  supplementary background and latest results. Both the student and reference  user can easily be overwhelmed by the sheer number of methods, and I would  recommend putting short descriptions of each (1-2 lines on front and 1-2  lines on back) on flash cards to keep them and their relationships fresh in  your mind (shuffle the cards, learn them backwards and forwards, learn them  alphabetically, in separate categories, then non-alphabetically and in  mixed up categories, etc.).  I would recommend that future editions list  some of the unsolved equations and open research questions in the field.	2000-04-05
US	49775207	R1YCDCZE6ZXV2A	0070602662	547670045	Schaum's Outline of College Algebra	Books	5	28	35	N	N	Schaum's College Algebra Outline	Schaum's College Outlines are the best outline/summary/worked problems series that I have every found.  Readers, especially students, need to be cautioned, however, that outlines and summaries and worked problems only  work usually if you use them right.  For example, most students work  problems before putting definitions and theorems or equations or theory  onto flash cards and learning the latter four first, or they just work  problems and forget flash cards for theorems and definitions.  Try studying  a pile of homework problems as tall as a room before an exam!  Multiply  this by the number of exams, both in High School (which should be using  Schaum's Algebra, by the way) and college, and it spells FAILURE.   Problems, even those worked out for you, only are useful AFTER you know  exactly what the theorems and definitions say (with one example for each),  preferably backwards and forwards and shuffled (as you can only do on flash  cards).  A card should only have 2 lines or less of ordinary size writing  on front and 2 lines on back for rapid shuffling and reading. I'll have  more to say about this in other reviews.	2000-04-04
US	49775207	RJLQZN4MNEXT4	0028632141	490234109	Master the SAT & PSAT 2000 ED (Sat and Psat (Arco), 2000)	Books	5	7	10	N	N	Arco's SAT and PSAT	Arco and Barron publish the best SAT/PSAT study guides and outlines available, in my opinion.  I have generally found Arco to have harder problems than Barron's in mathematics, but Barron's has introduced  vocabulary flash cards into many of their books - an unbeatable way to  study, which should be extended to all mathematical theorems and  definitions.  See my review of Barron's study guides and sample tests for  more details, but remember to put theorems and definitions on flash cards  BEFORE working massive amounts of problems.  Most people do the reverse and  cannot possibly remember what the theorems say or where to use them from a  pile of homework as big as a garage!  It is OK to have one example flash  card for each theorem, but do not put more than 2 lines of ordinary  handwriting on front and 2 on back of a flash card for rapid shuffling both  alphabetized and non-alphabetized, and learn them backwards and forwards.   In mathematics, an equation is usually as important to read and know from  right to left as from left to right, and likewise with theorems (the  premise or &quot;if&quot; and the conclusion or &quot;then&quot;), and most  students do not know them backwards, which tests easily reveal.  Most  students also do poorly with theorems in shuffled order, especially when  they are trying to remember garage piles of homework.  Homework and massive  problem solving are to practice what you already know in different  contexts, not to learn what theorems and definitions say.	2000-04-04
US	49775207	RHFRZRDJUCJHE	0028632141	490234109	Master the SAT & PSAT 2000 ED (Sat and Psat (Arco), 2000)	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Arco's SAT and PSAT	Arco and Barron publish the best SAT/PSAT study guides and outlines available, in my opinion.  I have generally found Arco to have harder problems than Barron's in mathematics, but Barron's has introduced  vocabulary flash cards into many of their books - an unbeatable way to  study, which should be extended to all mathematical theorems and  definitions.  See my review of Barron's study guides and sample tests for  more details, but remember to put theorems and definitions on flash cards  BEFORE working massive amounts of problems.  Most people do the reverse and  cannot possibly remember what the theorems say or where to use them from a  pile of homework as big as a garage!  It is OK to have one example flash  card for each theorem, but do not put more than 2 lines of ordinary  handwriting on front and 2 on back of a flash card for rapid shuffling both  alphabetized and non-alphabetized, and learn them backwards and forwards.   In mathematics, an equation is usually as important to read and know from  right to left as from left to right, and likewise with theorems (the  premise or &quot;if&quot; and the conclusion or &quot;then&quot;), and most  students do not know them backwards, which tests easily reveal.  Most  students also do poorly with theorems in shuffled order, especially when  they are trying to remember garage piles of homework.  Homework and massive  problem solving are to practice what you already know in different  contexts, not to learn what theorems and definitions say.	2000-04-04
US	49775207	R2QI0CMA7TKX8H	0061056405	920320505	Foundation and Chaos: The Second Foundation Trilogy	Books	5	9	15	N	N	Bear's Foundation and Chaos	The Foundation series of the late Isaac Asimov and its continuation by Brin and Bear is a work of Creative Geniuses, the modern analogue of the classic Shakespeare.  Ethical and moral issues abound similar to the  current debates about clones and automation.  Psychological and social  issues abound including the relationship between the living and the  mechanical, between the material and the spiritual at a much more  fundamental level than emerges from most science fiction movies.  The great  physicist Roger Penrose (see my reviews of his books - he is one of the  world's greatest physicists) has written two volumes fairly recently on  these types of issues.  It is fascinating to ask, as this book does, what  happens if the supposed laws of robotics, the assumptions &quot;built  in&quot; to the computer, are violated.  This is perhaps the most profound  question of our times: what happens when you change a supposed axiom, as in  non-Euclidean geometry (you get General Relativity).  I still think that  Bear and his colleagues will need to do more Foundation writing before they  can match Asimov's level of genius, but so far they are doing very well  indeed!	2000-04-04
US	49775207	R1Z7UIOBU18LL7	0521599164	440517627	Clifford Algebras and Spinors (London Mathematical Society Lecture Note Series)	Books	5	21	26	N	N	Lounesto's Clifford Algebras and Spinors	Clifford algebras make geometry and its applications to advanced physics incredibly simple, and this book is one of the best that I have read on this topic and on spinors.  Readers outside physics should also study this book, if necessary with the help of a consultant or tutor to translate into  more or less ordinary English, because most fields of science or industry  are in need of tremendous simplification.  Lounesto's approach is  algebraic, as is Okubo's (see my review of his book) and Chisholm's  (likewise), and Cambridge University Press as usual is at the head of the  field in publishing the deepest and yet most simple topics.  Spinors (the  word comes from spin plus the ending -ors) describe spin in quantum theory,  and Lounesto has the most detailed division of the types of spinors that I  have seen in a book together with their physical applications.  Weyl and  Majorana spinors describe the neutrino (of the weak force, although the  former only describe massless neutrinos), flagpole spinors appear to  describe the strong nuclear force/interaction and appear to be related to  quark confinement, Dirac spinors describe the electron (Weyl and Majorana  spinors, unlike Dirac spinors, are singular with a light-like  pole/current).  Penrose flags (see my reviews of Roger Penrose's books) are  related to Weyl and Majorana spinors.  Penrose has an interesting theory of  twistors which is well reviewed in some of the popular science books.	2000-04-03
US	49775207	R1UOQAUS2HTWZY	0716703440	914376472	Gravitation	Books	5	4	19	N	N	Additions to my first review of Misner et al.	I would like to further clarify some points made in my previous review and add a few points.  The topology school of quantum gravity not only includes string theory but also for example the black hole 2+1 dimensional model in  Carlip (see my review) and enters into almost every 2+1 dimensional model  of quantum gravity.  As for the algebra school, some of the best work has  been done by William Pezzaglia, Jr. (whose papers will be found in Chisholm  and some of the other books that I have reviewed).  Pezzaglia shows that an  interesting generalization of the principle of equivalence is worth  considering: namely, that the laws of physics are invariant under  transformations between different types of algebraic entities such as  bivectors, vectors, trivectors, and even pseudo-bivectors, pseudo-vectors,  etc.  This means that the laws of physics are invariant across dimensions,  which would fit in nicely with Carlip's and others' work on 2+1 dimensional  quantum gravity instead of 3+1 (3 space dimensions and 1 time dimension)  dimensional quantum gravity.  There still remains the difficult problem  pointed out in Carlip that some of the different dimensional results do not  extend to the other dimension(s).	2000-04-02
US	49775207	R3W369F2P7ZVSS	0387982914	243305888	Robust Control Theory in Hilbert Space (Applied Mathematical Sciences)	Books	5	7	7	N	N	Feintuch's Robust Control in Hilbert Space	This book and the journal papers that preceded it launched the new era of algebraic control theory which is one of the main new trends in mathematics, engineering, and physics.  Control theory is just what is sounds like: control in the intuitive sense (usually of artificial  satellites, rockets, robots, but also manufacturing and chemical plants,  cars, physical and biological thermoregulatory systems, etc.).  The old  control theory lacked simplicity, clarity, organization, and even  inspiration, and was done by long calculations with little algebraic  time-saving or space-saving.  Bruce Francis, whom the author cites and with  whom the author collaborated earlier, began the search for time- and  space-saving methods, although his own monograph makes difficult reading.   Feintuch's book is crystal clear, organized, and time- and space-saving.   He even isolates for us his main methods: not H-infinity but nest algebras  and their operator theory framework which lead to a theory of uniform  optimal control and robustness for time-varying linear systems, Arveson's  distance formula based on operator matrices in algebra, internal stability  representing a linear system as the range of 2x1 operator matrices with  causal entries and stabilization corresponds to left causal invertibility,  the gap metric, factorizations including inner-outer, spectral, coprime.   Block matrices turn out to be very important.  Feintuch's theory is mostly  in Hilbert space rather than Banach space, although he introduces Banach  algebras and does some work in Banach space.  Hilbert space has been found  to be defective in quantum theory by A. Bohm and was &quot;repaired&quot;  by him by adding Hilbert and Banach lattices and rigged Hilbert spaces, but  it is becoming obvious that a new direction is needed both in quantum  theory and control theory: Banach spaces.  My own work is in this latter  area.  I could have used Feintuch's insights when I worked in satellites  for the U.S. Defense Department.  The reader unfamiliar with the  mathematics can hire a consultant or tutor to translate things into  approximate English, an endeavor well worth the time and effort.	2000-04-02
US	49775207	R2EN41M81N3R0D	0716703440	914376472	Gravitation	Books	5	6	18	N	N	Misner, Thorne, and Wheeler's Gravitation	In reviewing Weinberg (1974), I listed his book as the best book on general relativity.  This book is the second best.  Weinberg's approach is algebraic, analytic, and topological, while Misner et al (MTW for short,  which I write as a typo toward the end of this review) adopt a mostly  geometrical approach.  It has turned out that geometry and topology are  very important for modern quantum gravity, but it so are all the other  fields plus logic and set theory and even probability or at least (finite)  measure theory.  In Carlip's recent book on 2+1 dimensional quantum  gravity, some of these approaches are contrasted but many things remain  confused as to which fields could theoretically be eliminated.  It will  probably turn out that several different approaches lead in similar  directions, especially four approache: geometry (the ADM or  Arnowitt-Deser-Misner formalism), topology (string theory),  measure-analytic-logic-probability-entropy (which leads to a direction  which is a combination of the first two), and algebra (Clifford, octonion,  division algebras which can describe geometry from a sort of neo-Cartesian  algebraic approach - see my pending review of Bayliss and also my review of  Dietrich et al and Chisholm).  Since string theory appears to be only an  approximation to quantum gravity, probably only the other 3 are fundamental  in a deeper sense.  Of these three, geometry by itself is the least well  translated into ordinary language.  MDT (Misner et al.) try, but they fail  very much to get through to non-specialists in geometry, and they are not  really addressing the public - their book is directed on a 2-tiered level  to physics students and to physics general relativity geometry would-be  specialists.  I recommend buying and keeping this book as a reference and  having a consultant or tutor help you compare it with other approaches if  you are not a general relativity geometry specialist.	2000-04-02
US	49775207	R134XJAMBL1Q5K	0061003832	583301746	The 4:50 From Paddington (What Mrs. McGillicuddy Saw!)	Books	5	2	7	N	N	Agatha Christie's 4:50 From Paddington	I have been a lifetime fan of Agatha Christie, and I was fortunate enough to spend two years in London where I obtained an M.A. Degree at the University of London.  I spent much of my time taking trains and  undergrounds or &quot;tubes&quot; (subways in &quot;American&quot;), and I  can testify that Agatha's book is faithful to trains and Great Britain in  almost every detail and also in spirit. In fact, we are talking about one  of the most educated nations in the world, whose university system is  (along with those of France, Germany, and Belgium) the best in the world,  in my opinion.  British people really do search for knowledge much of the  time where other people search for &quot;ego trips&quot; and bathing in the  sun.  The British subways in the 1950s and 1960s (when I was there) and  when I returned to visit later were an incredible contrast with New York  subways.  In New York, you are lucky not to get mugged on a subway, and  there is usually constant noise.  In England, it would be very rare to get  mugged on a subway and there is almost constant silence and respect for  other people.  This is what helped them get through World War 2, a spirit  of concern for others and for knowledge and learning and a respect for  others and for themselves.  Long live the books and the spirit of Agatha  Christie!	2000-04-02
US	49775207	R1QNT2FRG1S84E	0553380168	135474617	A Brief History of Time	Books	5	9	13	N	N	Hawking's Brief History of Time	One of the greatest living physicists, Stephen Hawking is also an amazing popularizer of science, a characteristic of many of the truly Creative Geniuses as opposed to the Follower Geniuses who are so abundant in  science.  I recommend that the reader consult parallel texts of slightly  greater mathematical and physical difficulty to better understand what is  going on, if necessary with the help of consultants or tutors.  I have  already remarked in other reviews for Amazon.com on the difficulty of  understanding entropy, for example, which comes in many types not all of  which are similar, and its relationship to probability, chaos, and so on is  not quite settled at this time.  The interested reader could consult  Ruelle's book (I forget its date at the moment) for a readable and inspired  account of entropy by one of its pioneers.  There has also been some recent  work indicating that more information can come out of a black hole than  Hawking thought.  I recommend that readers also read Roger Penrose's two  books of the last 20 years, which are also popularized science which  compare idealism and materialsm (the latter as represented by computer  Ingenious Followers, in my terminology).  Penrose and Hawking discovered  many of their discoveries together.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R1IHAOPV03ZENE	0691021007	597543245	Chance and Chaos	Books	5	17	20	N	N	Ruelle's Chance and Chaos	This is the best popular book on chaos, dynamic systems, and entropy that I have ever read, by one of the pioneers of this field.  I have remarked in my reviews of Gribbin, Kaku, and others that Creative Geniuses in science  (unlike Ingenious Followers who are so abundant) inspire others and  themselves often by popularizing science in ordinary English. It is a good  sign if they do this often, but sometimes they only do it seldom or never.   Ruelle, as far as I know, only did it once, in this book, and the reader  who loses the opportunity to obtain this book has lost a classic.  Ruelle  inspired me at an important place in my career (my fields are related to  the probability-logic-entropy-physics interface).  I am especially fond of  recalling his description of how extremely new creations or inventions are  typically received in science: journal reviewers will usually contradict  each other in their haste to oust the newcomer.  There are still journals  which do not touch chaos, entropy, dynamic systems, fractals, not to  mention my own field of logic-based probability.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R39X5QVE55MFR2	0750304618	340131790	Quarks, Leptons and The Big Bang, Second Edition	Books	5	8	15	N	N	Allday's Quarks, Leptons, and the Big Bang	This is one of the best SUMMARY books in advanced physics (especially cosmology and elementary particle theory) that I have ever read.  It is impossible to read Allday without finding unusually detailed summaries in  every chapter, each of which is enough to form the outline of several  lectures if not a course.  This ability to summarize information in detail  for non-specialists is generally a sign of what I call the Creative Genius  as opposed to the Ingenious Follower in physics and mathematics, although  there are some exceptions.  It is more common among European authors  (especially British, German, French, Belgian) and Canadian, Australian and  American authors from about Chicago or Texas eastward (don't ask me why, or  I will go into a long discussion that will last for years). Several  publishing companies specialize in it: Springer-Verlag/Springer, Cambridge  University Press, Oxford University Press/Clarendon to a lesser extent.   There is a disadvantage to it in that the author sometimes leaves out open  research questions of the last few years (as Allday unfortunately does).   Kluwer/Plenum and Wiley and Chapman-Hall/Longmans are better in this  respect, being oriented toward the latest open questions.  The American  Mathematical Society publishes in both of the above categories, and the  reader should purchase their books whenever they appear.  If the reader  lacks mathematical or physics specialization, a reputable consultant or  tutor should be hired to help translate into ordinary English (a rare  ability which is also associated with Creative Genius in my opinion).	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R2EMRSQNT07QL2	0521352762	69650812	Functional Equations in Several Variables: With Applications to Mathematics, Information Theory and to the Natural and Social Sciences (Encyclopedia of Mathematics and its Applications, Vol. 31)	Books	5	6	7	N	N	Aczel and Dhombre's Functional Equations	This and its precursor volume on functional equations by Aczel are the world's greatest books on functioal equations in my opinion.  Functional equations are among the most general equations in mathematics, and  therefore anybody who wants to use equations however remote from physical  sciences should buy and read these books (with the help of a consultant  and/or tutor if necessary to explain them in approximately ordinary  English).  To give the reader an example, logarithms obey log(a times b) =  log a + log b.  It turns out that the form of this equation, f(a times b) =  f(a) + f(b), characterizes logarithms uniquely under certain fairly general  conditions.  Functional equations like the last one turn out to uniquely  characterize whole fields and categories of both commonly and uncommonly  used equations ranging from probability and statistics to information  theory and entropy and beyond.  For example, how many people know that the  bell-shaped curve (called the normal or Gaussian distribution) used in  grading students on a curve or average has its own functional equation?  Or  how many people know that computer or cryptographic codes cannot be shorter  than Shannon entropy for average codeword length because of its functional  equation properties?  Aczel and Dhombres cover these and many other topics.   The book is published by Cambridge University Press, which is one of the  world's best publishing companies, and Aczel is at Waterloo University in  Canada, while Dhombres is (at least, until recently) at a French  university.  Waterloo and most French universities are among the best in  the world.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R361ECFY1YU12	0671008846	836520037	Dark Victory (Star Trek)	Books	5	2	10	N	N	Shattner's Star Trek Dark Victory	The reader has enough information about the plot of the book from the Editor's review, but I would like to concentrate here on why I think that Shattner, through his books, has become (or expressed the characteristics  of) a Creative Genius (as opposed to an Ingenious Follower, as many may  have thought of him in the shadow of Gene Roddenberry who created Star  Trek).  Shattner has absorbed the excitement, the obsession, the desire to  obtain knowledge and learn which was the original theme of Star Trek: to  explore new frontiers, to go where no one has gone before, etc.  The  Creative Genius is deep down a learner, a student of the universe.  Whether  he or she is a sculptor, a musician, a writer, or an inventor/discoverer,  these actions inspire the acquisition and experiencing of new knowledge.   You will find this in Socrates, in the Old Testament Prophets, in Saint  Thomas Acquinas, in Plato and Aristotle, and now in Shattner.  I hope that  the young people especially who read Shattner will be similarly inspired to  learn and create instead of following their peers and their &quot;easy way  out&quot;.  I hope that parents will read Shattner and be inspired to  literally &quot;sit on their kids&quot; to study and learn and create, even  if they have to hypnotize them or send them to learning therapists.  I also  like the emphasis on psychology in Shattner's books and indeed in the whole  Star Trek phenomenon.  I think that Creative Geniuses somewhere, deep down,  are psychologists, though for some of them making contact with themselves  may be a long voyage indeed.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	RE2175L4S56M2	0451627873	841067083	Double Helix (Mentor)	Books	5	2	5	N	N	Watson's The Double Helix	While I am glad to see the current rush to purchase M. Greene's best seller (which I reviewed), there are good arguments for putting first priority on Watson's The Double Helix.  Not only did Watson and Crick win  the Nobel Prize for discovering the structure of DNA, but Watson reveals  much about what makes a Creative Genius tick (which Greene's book does  not).  One of these ingredients is non-conformity, even non-conformity with  the mainstream of one's own field of research.  Watson is non-conformist to  the point of embarrassment, revealing his arguments with colleagues whom I  would describe as Ingenious Followers in part at least (as well as those  colleagues' own weaknesses).  Secondly, Creative Geniuses have an unusually  strong motivation typically.  In the case of Watson and Crick, they had a  competitive spirit to win against their colleagues (who were also trying to  unravel DNA) in the race for the discovery, and their competitive spirit  was an absolute obsession &quot;day and night&quot;.  Thirdly, they built  ingenious toy models of DNA with movable parts which enabled them to use  more sensory modalities to help them think.  Fourthly, they kept up  completely with what their rivals were doing, which is to say that they  sought and used information wisely and in a timely manner.  Fifth, they  used the computer technology of their era to the fullest (which Creative  Geniuses sometimes do not do - compare Roger Penrose, whose books I have  reviewed).  Sixth, they were incredibly mobile - they went to different  countries frequently to learn, to attend seminars, to talk with experts in  particular areas, especially countries in Europe (where Creative Geniuses  are more common, in my opinion, than in most parts of the world).  You will  find many other characteristics of Creative Geniuses by reading the  Watson-Crick story yourself.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R3T013AY51Z7WY	0375708111	458870497	The Elegant Universe: Superstrings, Hidden Dimensions, and the Quest for the Ultimate Theory	Books	5	34	43	N	N	Greene's Elegant Universe	This is the best popularization of string theory that I have read, by a scientist who contributed very much to it.  It is a must for everybody's library.  If there are some concepts that are still not clear, hire a  consultant or tutor specializing in translating mostly non-mathematical  physics into ordinary English.  Greene joins the ranks of other scientists  who popularize science with this book (see my reviews of Kaku's book,  Gribbin's book, etc. in Amazon.com).  However, I need to make a special  note of caution with respect to Greene's book.  We need to adopt a slightly  wait-and-see attitude here, because string theorists have been among the  least interested in popularizing (in fact, they sometimes popularize  through other writers, which seems to be a strange thing to do if you are  really a creative genius).  String theory itself needs to be taken with a  slightly wait-and-see attitude.  Although the Nobel Laureate Steven  Weinberg, who has almost always been right, went over to string theory (see  my review of Weinberg's book) in disgust at field theory, I think that  string theory is at most an approximation to the real world, and as T. Y.  Cao points out (1997 - see my review of Cao's book), its  philosophical-logical structure is not well developed.  It also needs  experimental confirmation badly, and even if it gets it, it could still be  in the position of Newton vs. Einstein (&quot;tomorrow there is  modification&quot;).  Greene does inspire (so did some strange politicians  in history), and in science but not politics this is a definite 5-star  quality.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	RVREILKMYE21C	0471584940	415697226	Continuous Univariate Distributions, Vol. 2 (Wiley Series in Probability and Statistics)	Books	5	7	23	N	N	Johnson et al. (2nd Ed.) Continuous Univariate Distributions	Johnson and Kotz in particular continue their series of ongoing descriptions and analyses of probability/statistics distributions which is an ingenious production.  They have the Creative Genius talents of  summarizing, organizing, emphasizing open questions, and open mindedness to  new ideas (although I have not quite tested them on some very ideas of my  own).  These qualities in various combinations can also be found in  Allday's 1998 book in physics (which I reviewed)and Weinberg's 1974 and  later books in physics (some of which I reviewed).  Johnson et al. have  some Creative Genius categories which are rarely found.  For one thing,  they cross-categorize distributions (&quot;graphs&quot; for the  non-specialist)by their applications to real world problems, which is  usually notoriously lacking in math and physics publications (beyond one or  two problems).  Secondly, they CHARACTERIZE distributions by various  properties such as heredity (the same distribution holds for a sum of  variables as for one variable, etc.), exponential derivation from other  distributions, conditional expectations (I would prefer logic-based  probability (LBP) expectations, but it's better than nothing), etc.  In  other words, their very categorization of distributions is by critical  research categories and fundamental logical-factual categories, at least as  far as they know them.  I recommend this book and the whole series from the  same authors (or at least most of them) without reservations except the  ones mentioned for LBP, and I urge specialists in these fields to recommend  that their students and even &quot;laymen&quot; (non-academic  people)purchase this volume and hire a consultant or tutor to translate  them or explain them in closer to ordinary English if their  probability/statistical background is lacking or deficient.	2000-04-01
US	49775207	R202X4YTM36CP7	0316328197	318630148	Schrodinger's Kittens and the Search for Reality: Solving the Quantum Mysteries	Books	5	3	7	N	N	Gribbin's Schrodinger's Kittens	I have reviewed an equally creative scientist, Michio Kaku (see under Kaku's books in Amazon.com), and Gribbin maintains his usual reputation for creativity in science.  His backward time traveling wave theory may or may  not be correct, but it still inspires me years after reading the book.   Creative geniuses in science seek to inspire both others and themselves by  translating difficult science into ordinary English or other language more  or less.  Since most scientists are Ingenious Followers, we should be  lenient if some technical mistakes are made in the process.  Gribbin is  absolutely correct in his description of the collapse of the Copenhagen  Complementarity Interpretation; for a more mathematical and physically  complicated description which still deserves to be read by everyone  (possibly with the help of consultants or tutors), see T. Y. Cao's 1997  book in Amazon.com (which I also reviewed).  Rather than criticize Gribbin  for not adhering to scientific materialism with 100% accuracy, we should  praise him for adhering to the spirit of scientific inquiry, creativity,  learning with as little human error as possible and with inspiration both  of oneself and others.  (Come to think of it, this would have been a better  speech for Marcus Aurelius than his &quot;the good is buried...the evil  lingers on,&quot; speech, but then he was living in a relatively  unscientific era.)	2000-04-01
