US	49781787	RMKMQWGTSTO8L	0812574664	265350166	Fox on the Rhine	Books	3	2	2	N	Y	Good Alternate History	When reading Fox on the Rhine I found myself comparing it to Harry Turtledove's World War I/II series. I recently read and reviewed Turtledove's latest, Drive to the East,  so it was fresh in my mind. Fox on the Rhine provides the level of detail that Turtledove's series lacks. From details of individual tactical engagements to analyses of the strategic alignments, the author gives the reader a full view of the situation. The book opens when one man's tiny change from actual history results in a successful July 20, 1944 assassination of Hitler. Whether the resulting scenarios are really plausible is beside the point because the authors made them seem credible. The authors do produce an interesting alternate history tale while letting the reader in on more than broad generalizations of what is going on at the front. A few more maps would have been helpful though.<br /><br />Although Fox on the Rhine portrays the Germans on the move with a second chance, they are not glorified. The authors go a bit far in deifying Rommel, but most of the German leaders and the SS are nasty and evil as ever. A surprising feature of the book is the portrayal of the American army sweeping across France and then in counterattack mode. The Americans have practically equal billing in this book and are definitely the good guys. Readers considering Fox on the Rhine do not have to be concerned they are buying a Neo Nazi or at least sympathetic tome.<br /><br />So far, I am describing a book that will appeal to both Alternate and Military history buffs. However, there are also key aspects in a book such as character development and plot lines. In this area, Fox on the Rhine is mediocre at best and Turtledoves comes out way ahead. The characters are ciphers attached to historical stereotypes. In fact, a significant part of the book is devoted to worthless letters from an American bomber gunner to his mother. Letters from a tanker would have been much more interesting and fitting. The descriptions of the military campaigns in Fox on the Rhine are informative and interesting, but without characters to really care about, it falls flat. For the right audience, Fox on the Rhine is well worth the time, but when considering everything that comprises a good book, it is little more than ordinary.ry campaigns in Fox on the Rhine are informative and interesting, but without characters to really care about, it falls flat. For the right audience, Fox on the Rhine is well worth the time, but when considering everything that comprises a good book, it is little more than ordinary.	2005-10-09
US	49781787	RSP14P5Y3K4W6	0345457242	772147660	Drive to the East (Settling Accounts Trilogy, Book 2)	Books	5	2	2	N	Y	Turtledove Delivers!	I agree with many reviewers that the quality of the writing in this installment is an improvement over what Turtledove has done in the past few years. Being addicted to this series, I am very happy to see better plot development and also more depth and personality in the characters, both good and bad guys.<br /><br />However, it is not for the savoring of the written word that I read Turtledove (for a higher level of writing from him, try \\"Ruled Britannia\\"). Turtledove simply has created an enthralling melodramatic saga that, although full of flaws, grabs those of us who enjoy alternate history. Readers actually using these reviews to guide their purchases should know by now not to start the series here. The individual books do not really stand up by themselves. However, as I titled a review of an earlier installment, the Sum is Stronger than the Parts. The same can be said for this book.<br /><br />From the Yankee viewpoint, this book is the start of a thrilling triumph of the stuff that made the United States in our universe great. At this point, virtually all White Confederates are debased and corrupted and I imagine many Southerners are offended and disgusted. The battle scenes are relatively brief and offer a mixture of heroism and horror. Greater details of the strategic situation both in North America and the rest of the world along with maps would be extremely welcome, but I doubt that Turtledove has any more hard information for us at this time. The most striking part of the book is the Negro holocaust in the making. While it is hard to accept that it could possibly happen here, this plot line is depressing (in the best sense), painful, and gripping. On a lighter note, I enjoy the brief cameos of historical figures whose path in our universe is not even a dream. Being well versed in baseball history, I especially enjoyed seeing the names of two \\"running backs,\\" Foxx and Greenberg, being used as a soldiers' password (Turtledove even picked the correct phyical types). I am sure that there are many others I missed.<br /><br />One complaint I do have is Turtledove's dismissal of baseball as a minor sport seldom worthy of comment. The quality of cigarettes from the U.S.A. and the Confederacy seem to be a running joke among my fellow reviewers. Spoiler Warning! I especially enjoyed the scene near the end where the Confederates trapped in the Pittsburg pocket are reduced to smoking U.S. cigarettes.<br /><br />There are many problems such following too close to the WWII Eastern front template, repetitive dialogue, and scenes stolen from Turtledove's own Days of Infamy. However at the end of the day, most loyal Turtledove fans will feel that they got their money's worth!sure that there are many others I missed.    One complaint I do have is Turtledove's dismissal of baseball as a minor sport seldom worthy of comment. The quality of cigarettes from the U.S.A. and the Confederacy seem to be a running joke among my fellow reviewers. Spoiler Warning! I especially enjoyed the scene near the end where the Confederates trapped in the Pittsburg pocket are reduced to smoking U.S. cigarettes.    There are many problems such following too close to the WWII Eastern front template, repetitive dialogue, and scenes stolen from Turtledove's own Days of Infamy. However at the end of the day, most loyal Turtledove fans will feel that they got their money's worth!	2005-09-27
US	49781787	R30CYHSKK9G64M	0804119120	154526115	A Conspiracy of Paper: A Novel (Ballantine Reader's Circle)	Books	5	9	9	N	N	Eighteenth Century London Warts and All	A Conspiracy of Paper, a brilliant first novel that lives up to the hype, is wonderful historical fiction and also an enjoyable mystery. Its portrait of eighteenth century London in the days preceding the South Sea Bubble is gritty in the descriptions of the seamy underside of all levels of society while portraying little of Imperial England's grandeur. The poor are wretched, dirty, and calloused while the rich are really no different or better in their nasty and corrupt tendencies. Benjamin Weaver, a lapsed Jew and an ex-pugilist known as The Lion of Judah, is the main character and the reader goes along for the ride in his efforts to uncover murders and the underlying financial and personal deceits. He is now what would now be called a Private Investigator.  Weaver left the Jewish community ten years before, but knows he is still an outsider in an English and Christian society. Through this \\"outsider in the know,\\" the reader gets a revealing view of the time and insight into what was going on in people's minds. Although Weaver has gained respect in his profession and his boxing career is admired, his Jewish heritage is a factor in his treatment from others and their frustration often results in nasty anti-semetic comments and venting that confirms his outsider status.  Liss has an excellent way of describing scenes of London's people, manners, squalor, wealth, wretchedness, and hypocrisy. However, A Conspiracy of Paper is far from being a dark novel. Liss has an excellent dry wit and there is plenty of comic relief. Secondly, as crude and backward as the year 1719 was, it was also in the morning of the Enlightenment and the transition to modern society and viewpoints is evident. The style of A Conspiracy of Paper style reminds me a little of Patrick O'Brian, but that comparison should not be taken too far. Perhaps Weaver and his sidekick Elias can become a duo similar to Jack Aubrey and Stephen Maturin. There is no doubt that Liss' characters and settings have enormous potential and perhaps Conspiracy of Paper will be the start of a similar epic series.rmous potential and perhaps Conspiracy of Paper will be the start of a similar epic series.	2005-08-29
US	49781787	R52ETW6KBR0KA	0345457129	950562266	Weapons of Choice (The Axis of Time Trilogy, Book 1)	Books	4	8	12	N	Y	Centuries in Collision	Weapons of Choice is the first of a series which  begins when a multi-national (Mostly American) carrier task force in 2021 on a United Nations mission in Indonesia is transported to 1942 and finds itself smack in the middle of the American fleet heading into battle near Midway. I put off reading this book for fear that it would be juvenile, simplistic, and poorly-written. I also braced myself for a smothering and cloying \\"politically correct\\" element along with cardboard black and white characters. However the author, John Birmingham, has pulled off a compelling and thoughtful tale of what might happen if people from different times were to meet.<br /><br />Of course, much of the book covers the effect of 21st century technology on World War II with some very imaginative scenarios. However, this is not a story of the future riding in on white horse and bringing light to a welcoming and backward world. For one thing those in the world of 1942 thought they were doing quite well until the visitors (invaders?) showed up! What makes Weapons of Choice especially interesting and a cut above many similar books is the interaction between the people of different centuries. To put it simply, they often don't like each other much. The time travelers arrived with a destructive bang that brought death and mayhem and inadvertently undermined the war effort. Secondly, the people of 1942 find many 21st century social mores and personal behavior shocking, disgusting, and immoral. Meanwhile the 21st century people justifiably see considerable bigotry, ignorance, and crudeness in the world of 1942. Weapons of Choice appears to be written from a moderately liberal perspective (starting with the super carrier U.S.S. Hillary Clinton) which has alienated some reviewers, but the people from the future have faults too. They mean well and wish to help the Allied cause, but many are rude, disrespectful, contemptuous and vulgar at times (the women especially), and on a high horse that begs to be toppled. After all, just because mid-twentieth century people are \\"ignorant\\" and backward does not mean they are stupid and do not learn fast. Meanwhile, the Japanese and Germans are aware of what has happened, managed to snag a bit of the future technology, and are determined to use it to change what they found out is their own bleak future.<br /><br />Weapons of Choice does have its problems. 2021 is simply too close to our own world of 2005. The weapons and technology seem too advanced for only sixteen years in the future. Secondly, although our own society is changing rapidly, the part of the world of 2021 the multi-national force comes from seems unreasonably accepting and tolerant of diversity of all sorts. In addition, what happened to the conservatives/religious right? Has it become irrelevant in only sixteen years? Finally the writing is very good for the genre, but don't expect great literature and character development. Despite these quibbles it should be remembered that this is a only a story and Birmingham has written something that will appeal to Alternate History, Time Travel,  Science Fiction, and World War II buffs.ed. After all, just because mid-twentieth century people are \\"ignorant\\" and backward does not mean they are stupid and do not learn fast. Meanwhile, the Japanese and Germans are aware of what has happened, managed to snag a bit of the future technology, and are determined to use it to change what they found out is their own bleak future.    Weapons of Choice does have its problems. 2021 is simply too close to our own world of 2005. The weapons and technology seem too advanced for only sixteen years in the future. Secondly, although our own society is changing rapidly, the part of the world of 2021 the multi-national force comes from seems unreasonably accepting and tolerant of diversity of all sorts. In addition, what happened to the conservatives/religious right? Has it become irrelevant in only sixteen years? Finally the writing is very good for the genre, but don't expect great literature and character development. Despite these quibbles it should be remembered that this is a only a story and Birmingham has written something that will appeal to Alternate History, Time Travel,  Science Fiction, and World War II buffs.	2005-08-12
US	49781787	R2C8MOXYJCB1LX	0316011770	454028739	The Historian	Books	3	3	3	N	N	High Expectations Dashed	Some reviewers have compared The Historian to The Da Vinci Code. There are similarities such as a road trip in pursuit of answers for a new truth that goes against what we have all been taught. The characters delve into history and their examination of old documents and legends is like putting pieces of a puzzle together. Da Vinci Code may have influenced the author in coming up with the ideas for her book. However, The Historian is very different in ways that will delight, stimulate, disappoint, and frustrate the reader. Sadly, the first two characteristics predominate in the first two-thirds and the second two toward the end. For the reader who loves to get lost in a story and learn some history at the same time, The Historian, at first, fits the bill. The multi-track narrative over three generations used by the author is an excellent literary tool because the main characters can be experienced in the present. Surprisingly, this tale is often a fascinating work of historical fiction as the reader is led on a path that begins in the fifteenth century and concludes in the middle of the Cold War. Being a history buff, I was delighted to learn a great deal about the Byzantine and Ottoman Empires, the events that shaped the modern Balkans, and of course something about Vampires. Meanwhile the specter of Dracula casts a creepy, spooky aura that couples superstition and modern rationality. Unfortunately, The Historian then becomes so bogged down with excessive detail (even for a history buff such as me) and muddled narrative that the last third is cumbersome and hard to follow. A climax that should be a dramatic ending is instead a confusing path that seems to go on forever. What started out as a five star triumph, fizzled, and turned into something much lower. The Historian has a brilliant side and I recommend that readers give it a try. After all, I am only one reviewer with a mere opinion. However, if I were to choose novels to take on a desert island, The Historian would not make the cut.ould not make the cut.	2005-08-02
US	49781787	R2PO5AM5Y3KPXK	094267927X	648587365	Purple Sun: An epic tale of war and redemption	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Thoughtful Study	I too, was contacted by Lawrence McAuliffe and asked if I was interested in reading Purple Sun. His request flattered me and I gave the book a thorough and serious reading. I wish I could give his book a rave review, but believe I owe him, and more important, prospective readers, my most unbiased opinion. First of all, it must be understand that Purple Sun is not a thriller or mystery, although at times it seems to be heading that way. Instead it is more of a fable or character study in which the main characters engage in soul searching, rationalizing, and the questioning of life, death, duty, and God. The main characters' story starts in 1968 in Vietnam with a young lieutenant and seasoned sergeant who are bystanders as a battle-shocked, guilt-ridden Marine is sent back into the field only to soon become MIA as a result of an ambush. Whether he deserted, was killed, or captured is unknown. The two soon return to the States and go their separate ways, but periodically meet and the fate of the Marine always comes up in their conversations. Although both have active and generally fulfilled lives, they seem to be on a journey in which the nagging uncertainty of what happened in 1968, and why, must be resolved. Legends of a wandering and mystical Westerner in Vietnam pop up and the two finally go back close to thirty years later in an attempt to learn the truth. They are reluctantly joined in the quest by their guide; a former Viet Cong soldier, who may have demons of his own. I commend the author for an excellent and thoughtful effort, but have to say that as a work of literature and fiction Purple Sun falls short. The general idea is good, but perhaps the message gets in the way of a good story. The dialogue becomes repetitive and it took two-thirds of the book for the story to get back in Vietnam at which point it did become a page-turner for a while. However, I am probably not the sort of reader Purple Sun ultimately aims at. My rating is primarily for story quality, not message and meaning. Although I give Purple Sun \\"only\\" three stars, it is a serious work with an important message and I would not be surprised to find it on the reading list of at least one college Philosophy or Religion course. Amazon has created a wonderful opportunity for new and unknown writers to have their work be more widely read and also for people such as me to write reviews that somebody may actually read., not message and meaning. Although I give Purple Sun \\"only\\" three stars, it is a serious work with an important message and I would not be surprised to find it on the reading list of at least one college Philosophy or Religion course. Amazon has created a wonderful opportunity for new and unknown writers to have their work be more widely read and also for people such as me to write reviews that somebody may actually read.	2005-07-25
US	49781787	R3V3DNO7HRX94H	034546706X	339969379	Rage (Alex Delaware)	Books	4	7	8	N	N	The Kellerman Touch	Eight years before Rage begins, two boys brutally murdered an abducted two-year-old girl in a park. Kellerman masterfully opens Rage with a background of the murder and we will all naturally wonder what made the boys tick. Unfortunately for our curiosity, both boys are now dead. One of the two, Rand was released from a juvenile facility where he had been sent for his part. The other member of the duo, Troy, who appears to have been the brains and sociopath of the two, was murdered in another detention facility many years before. Delaware analyzed Rand for the court shortly after the killing and found him to be borderline retarded and easily manipulated. The night of his murder, Delaware was called out of the Blue by Rand to set up a meeting. He ended the conversation with \\"I am not a bad person.\\" Rand never shows up and is later found dead. Delaware and Sturgis now find themselves back on the trail of another demented sociopath. Their investigation leads them through a series of lowlifes, good Samaritans, troubled teenagers, cops, lawyers, and family members of Troy, Rand, and the little girl. Suspicions soon develop that at least one evil adult may have guided the boys' actions and is responsible for many other murders and other despicable acts too. The setup and chase are where Kellerman excels. The combination of the Psychologist Delaware and Detective Sturgis brings both the psychological thriller and police procedural characteristics to his novels. Delaware's personal life with his new love interest, Allison, has few scenes, but there is one surprising and coincidental twist (perhaps too coincidental for a city the size of Los Angeles). Personally, I hope Delaware does not go back to Robin. Sturgis' private life as always, except for a few references to his sexual preference, is mostly in the shadows. Kellerman should be given credit for successfully portraying a buddy, crime-fighting relationship between a straight and gay man. Sturgis's personality and personal habits breaks all the stereotypes. Rage does have several deficiencies. The storyline, although interesting, becomes somewhat convoluted and over the top while the ending is abrupt and not very satisfying. However, as I write this review I find myself liking Rage more and more. My original intention was to give it four stars, but to note that is barely reached that level. I now put Rage at a solid four stars.al habits breaks all the stereotypes. Rage does have several deficiencies. The storyline, although interesting, becomes somewhat convoluted and over the top while the ending is abrupt and not very satisfying. However, as I write this review I find myself liking Rage more and more. My original intention was to give it four stars, but to note that is barely reached that level. I now put Rage at a solid four stars.	2005-07-21
US	49781787	R3SQJLR3KJ8SKS	0316734942	60378634	The Closers	Books	4	3	3	N	N	Back in the LAPD Saddle	The Closers opens with Harry Bosch back in the LAPD and reporting for work on his first day in the Open Unsolved (i.e. Cold Case) Unit as the oldest \\"rookie\\" on the force. He is back due to the strong recommendation of his former partner, Kizmin Rider, and also the new Chief of Police taking a chance on the independent-minded Bosch. Bosch feels he is coming back home to his true mission in life as an avenger who \\"speaks for the dead.\\" However, others (particularly Deputy Chief Irving, his adversary from prior books) up high on the force see him as a \\"retread\\" and eagerly await his going down in flames, hopefully taking the new Chief with him. Bosch and Rider, reunited as partners, are immediately thrown into the maelstrom when DNA is identified on a pistol that was used in murder of an abducted high school girl seventeen years before. In an unspoken explanation of the reasons why cold cases should be pursued, Connolly describes the \\"ripples\\" of the murder on her devastated and then shattered family.  The Closers becomes a fascinating police procedural in which the crime appears to be traceable to a skinhead, racist gang of the late eighties. Of course, nothing in Michael Connolly's stories is simple and clear-cut, and Bosch along with the rest of the Open Unsolved Team, find a complicated, winding path. There are hints of police incompetence, intimidation, and political manipulation in the original investigation of the case that point to headquarters.  Out of practice, Bosch has some awkward moments, but holds on to this pursuit with resolution even as promising avenues turn up empty and disasterous making his return to the LAPD look possibly short-lived. What makes Bosch such a great and fascinating character is that in addition to his rough and ready, but cerebral nature; he also has a vulnerable side and often seems to be pushing the envelope of humiliation and disgrace. His willingness to risk this and not back down  seems to come from his belief in \\"the mission.\\" Bosch's tryst as a Private Investigator in the last two novels was a nice change of pace, but is good to see him back his element with the LAPD. The Closers is not one of Connelly's best (a high standard has been set), but it is still very good. Cold cases are a natural foil for Bosch and I look forward to many more Bosch novels from Connelly in the coming years..\\" Bosch's tryst as a Private Investigator in the last two novels was a nice change of pace, but is good to see him back his element with the LAPD. The Closers is not one of Connelly's best (a high standard has been set), but it is still very good. Cold cases are a natural foil for Bosch and I look forward to many more Bosch novels from Connelly in the coming years.	2005-07-10
US	49781787	R2BD3DAANW8HFN	0743226712	53542661	1776	Books	4	3	4	N	N	Perseverance and Growth	A subtitle for 1776 could be of the Education of George Washington. Washington developed as both a military and national leader in the context of a year in which the survival of the new nation could have gone either way.  Beginning with the triumphant occupation of Boston in the spring, followed by a series of disasterous defeats in the New York area in the late summer and fall, 1776 tells the story of a rising pride that led to the Declaration of Independence, dashed by the might and experience of the British army and navy. Washington and his army managed to stay together culminating in the spark of hope brought by the victories at Trenton and Princeton. This book is an excellent companion to Ellis' \\"His Excellency\\" for those who want greater detail of this period and the perspective of what came before and after. Washington faced a daunting task of creating a national army from the individual colonies and then holding it together in the face of severe and humiliating defeats that could have easily resulted in a stillborn nation. Although initially disdainful of many of the troops in the Continental Army, particularly New Englanders, Washington grew to respect these diverse, independent-minded men and wrote \\"a person unused to restraint must be led, they will not be drove.\\" As McCullough notes Washington never gave up and continually called for \\"perseverance and spirit,\\" \\"patience and perseverance,\\" and \\"unremitting courage and perseverance\\" in his writings.  Also prominent are Washington's lieutenants such as Greene, Knox, and Lee along with Howe, Cornwallis, and Clinton on the British side. The supporting characters along with profiles of the lower officers and soldiers put a face on what is often very dry in the textbooks from our school days. Although definitely worth reading, 1776 does have a couple of faults that can make it difficult for those unfamiliar with the period. The first is a lack of explanation of the strategic situations such as why possession of Long Island was so important to holding Manhattan. Second, the lack of readable maps makes it difficult to follow the path of the armies for those not already familiar with the area and its battlefields.  1776 is not the best choice for one's first book about the Revolutionary War, but it should definitely be on the short list and will be welcomed by knowledgeable readers looking for more detail. Although \\"merely\\" very good but not great, 1776 will remain on my bookshelf always, occasionally reread.Long Island was so important to holding Manhattan. Second, the lack of readable maps makes it difficult to follow the path of the armies for those not already familiar with the area and its battlefields.  1776 is not the best choice for one's first book about the Revolutionary War, but it should definitely be on the short list and will be welcomed by knowledgeable readers looking for more detail. Although \\"merely\\" very good but not great, 1776 will remain on my bookshelf always, occasionally reread.	2005-06-27
US	49781787	R27CBNPKUXP4RM	0684872536	753507601	December 6: A Novel	Books	4	0	0	N	N	Comes On Strong at the End	Martin Cruz Smith writes a portrait of the last two days before the start of World War II in Tokyo. The story focuses on Harry Niles, an American who spent much of his childhood in Japan and then returned as an adult and nows owns a nightclub. He may also be a rogue, opportunist, either a collaborator to the Japanese or American spy or perhaps both. Niles hopes to get on a plane to Hong Kong and then on to California, but has to dodge a psychotic Japanese officer bent on avenging a perceived breach of his honor, the police who suspect his involvement in a plot to undermine Japan's oil supply, and a possibly murderous girlfriend. The Japanese quest for oil is an underlying theme of the book and the reader is introduced to Admiral Yamamoto and Japan's justification for the attack on Pearl Harbor. Smith puts forth Japan's side of the origins of the Pacific War and gives the reader an excellent understanding of their point of view while avoiding a sanctimonious anti-American tone. Unfortunately, December 6 is confusing and plodding in the first half and many readers are likely put it down. The action then heats up and the plot develops into a tense thriller that I will not forget. December 6 gets a weak four star rating (let's say 3.51 which rounds up to 4), but to paraphrase Randy Jackson, Smith started roughtly, then brought it home.	2005-06-04
US	49781787	R189760995DN26	0743245911	734522183	Luckiest Man: The Life and Death of Lou Gehrig	Books	5	5	5	N	N	Portrait of a Hero in Life and Death	Lou Gehrig was one of the greatest ballplayers of all time, but his life has become typecast in the clich&eacute;s of \\"The Iron Horse\\" followed by courage in the face of crushing adversity. Gehrig was all these things, but there is much more substance. Although a major figure in the baseball world of his time, Gehrig's persona lacked color and producing an interesting and significant biography must have been a challenge beyond a methodical listing of his accomplishments. Jonathan Eig pulls this off in Luckiest Man by focusing on the people and world around him. We learn of his devotion to his mother, ups and downs of his friendship with Babe Ruth, respect for authority such as managers Miller Huggins and Joe McCarthy and Yankees owner Jacob Ruppert, self-doubts and reluctance to assert himself in contract negotiations, and the relationship with his wife, Eleanor and finally his doctors. Luckiest Man gives the reader something of the flavor of major league baseball in the 1920's and 1930's. I particularly enjoyed descriptions of a barnstorming tour after the 1927 World Series and his brief career in Hollywood. At several points in his career, there are quotes in which Gehrig articulately explains his contentment with a simple and relatively frugal life. As his career proceeded into the mid-thirties it appears that Gehrig was an intelligent, driven man who would have blossomed in middle age both within and outside baseball. A dark cloud is sensed throughout Luckiest Man to those readers familiar with his tragic illness. At the age of thirty-five in 1938 and still in the prime of his career, Gehrig began exhibiting the effects of ALS or what has become known as \\"Lou Gehrig's Disease.\\" Undiagnosed for at least a year, Gehrig continued to play until his retirement early in the 1939 season as his skills gradually declined until nobody, including Lou, could deny that something was wrong.  This portion of the book is painful to read, but riveting. I can only admire Gehrig's optimism and doggedness and consider it to be a classic piece of sports biography. Unfortunately, ALS is still an incurable disease. The last part of the books deals with the two years after his retirement and before his death. Gehrig tried a number of treatments and stayed optimistic and upbeat around others until the end and faced his predicament with undeniable courage. As I read the final page, I was touched in a way that no biography has done for me before.sm and doggedness and consider it to be a classic piece of sports biography. Unfortunately, ALS is still an incurable disease. The last part of the books deals with the two years after his retirement and before his death. Gehrig tried a number of treatments and stayed optimistic and upbeat around others until the end and faced his predicament with undeniable courage. As I read the final page, I was touched in a way that no biography has done for me before.	2005-05-27
US	49781787	R1YQEB80LWXUZT	1592284396	135758765	Wrong Side of the Wall: The Life of Blackie Schwamb, the Greatest Prison Baseball Player of All Time	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Baseball, Crime, and Blown Opportunities	Wrong Side of the Wall is a reminder that bad apple athletes are not new to our times. Eric Stone tells the story of the wasted life of Ralph \\"Blackie\\" Schwamb, a professional baseball player in late forties, who threw away an opportunity fantasized by many of us since childhood. Schwamb gravitated toward the criminal element of Los Angeles and also happened to have major league pitching talent. With 1940's Los Angeles as a backdrop, the book portrays his road to the major leagues marked by the milestones of dropping out of high school, alcohol abuse, petty and violent crime, two years in a naval brig during World War II followed by a bad conduct discharge, subsequent work as an enforcer for L.A. gangsters, and being a neglectful husband and father to boot. Along the way he also developed a talent and liking for baseball. Baseball seems to have been at most a hobby that somehow led to a contract with the St. Louis Browns and a half season (and one win) in the big leagues in 1948. What could have been a Cinderella story and tale of redemption turns into a self-destructive, nasty, and ugly story of screw-ups, drunkenness, and blown opportunities. Schwamb must have had huge potential to get up to the big leagues so quickly (albeit with the St. Louis Browns) and his obliviousness to the opportunity left me stunned. Then a little over a year after his summer with the Browns and back in Los Angeles, Schwamb was arrested and convicted of murder and sentenced to life in prison. At San Quentin and later Folsom, without many of the outside distractions Schwamb came into his own and played the best baseball of his life. Baseball was a big deal in California prisons back then and he was the star of a team that often dominated the San Francisco Recreation League and many semi-pro teams. The descriptions of prison baseball are interesting and a neglected niche of baseball history. Schwamb spent ten years in prison and his ability was still regarded enough for him to get a chance at a comeback with the Hawaii Islanders in the Pacific Coast League. The comeback failed and he faded into obscurity with several more relatively minor brushes with the law along with two failed marriages until his death in 1989. The book's pace with its weaving of the story into the Los Angeles setting is awkward at times. For example, the author interrupts the section on Schwamb's murder trial with a discussion of Los Angeles smog. Perhaps the most striking and memorable part of the book is the preface in which Stone describes several days spent with a prematurely aging and sick, but still volatile Schwamb in 1985. Much of the material in this book came from these sessions, however Stone took what Schwamb had to say with a grain of salt and uses other sources too. For the baseball history buffs, The Wrong Side of the Wall is a must read and is deserving of a five star rating. Mystery, crime novel readers, and those interested in Los Angeles history will also enjoy it. Stone has a lot of information about Los Angeles and its gangsters that could be used in his mysteries and I look forward to reading more by him.at a comeback with the Hawaii Islanders in the Pacific Coast League. The comeback failed and he faded into obscurity with several more relatively minor brushes with the law along with two failed marriages until his death in 1989. The book's pace with its weaving of the story into the Los Angeles setting is awkward at times. For example, the author interrupts the section on Schwamb's murder trial with a discussion of Los Angeles smog. Perhaps the most striking and memorable part of the book is the preface in which Stone describes several days spent with a prematurely aging and sick, but still volatile Schwamb in 1985. Much of the material in this book came from these sessions, however Stone took what Schwamb had to say with a grain of salt and uses other sources too. For the baseball history buffs, The Wrong Side of the Wall is a must read and is deserving of a five star rating. Mystery, crime novel readers, and those interested in Los Angeles history will also enjoy it. Stone has a lot of information about Los Angeles and its gangsters that could be used in his mysteries and I look forward to reading more by him.	2005-05-13
US	49781787	R5319XH6FF66F	0446611646	561654368	The Narrows (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	3	3	N	N	One More for the Master!	In the match-up we have all been waiting for, Harry Bosch takes on the Poet. The Poet is the best of Connolly's breaks from the Bosch series and was screaming for a sequel. Called on to investigate the death of a former FBI profiler, Harry quickly picks up the Poet's trail and hits the road from Southern California across the Mojave Desert to Las Vegas and then the action really gets heavy. FBI agent Rachel Wallings from The Poet joins the case resulting in some interesting, exciting, and of course bittersweet, interaction between her and Bosch. Despite her high skills, Wallings is in partial disgrace after the Poet fiasco eight years before and is summoned from her Siberian posting in Sioux City because of her prior connection with The Poet.  The Poet is fixated on her and what the FBI really wants is to use her as bait. The FBI tries to push Bosch out of the case, but he and Wallings buck the bureaucracy and go off on their own thread. The result is another great story from Connolly that has the usual twists, turns, and surprises.  The Narrows could have easily ended at chapter 38 and the result would be been a solid, entertaining thriller. Connolly, however does not look for easy, quick endings, and his books are brought up to a much higher level as a result. Sometimes I have to remind myself that Harry Bosch is make-believe. If I sound like a one man Michael Connolly cheering section, it's because I am!	2005-05-02
US	49781787	R1LFRRVPOK6J20	0446611913	265598858	Up Country	Books	5	2	2	N	N	The Whole Package	I actually read Up Country a couple of years ago and it has stuck in my mind far more than most thrillers. It has a wise-cracking, jaded hero with the heart of a lion, accompanied by a sultry adventuress who oozes sexuality, a road trip of danger through Vietnam's memory lane, a nasty, but tough Vietnamese officer who meets his psychological match, plenty of color, sights, and personalities of today's Vietnam that made me feel as I was along for the ride too, flashbacks to war stories, political intrigue that could shake our nation's highest levels, characters who could be on either side of the fence, and a satisfying nose-thumbing to our former enemies. With all this going on, and Nelson De Mille's writing skills, how could Up Country not be a great story?	2005-04-28
US	49781787	R17ZCH1C3WI1HX	0446667900	347427189	A Darkness More Than Night (A Harry Bosch Novel)	Books	4	4	4	N	N	An Exciting Story and Some Art History Education Too	Harry Bosch becomes part of Terry MaCaleb's supporting cast in A Darkness More than Night. Although he has to give up much of the stage, it is very revealing for all of us Bosch fans as we see him in a new perspective. As an added bonus, McCaleb is a fascinating character by himself who I would like to see come alive in action again. Actually, I am convinced that Connelly is simply a great genre writer who can make any character interesting. A Darkness More than Night is basically two plots that converge into one of Connelly's typically imaginative crescendos. In the first McCaleb is asked to take a break from his seemingly idyllic retirement from a career as a FBI profiler to examine a case file and hopefully come up with some ideas. His analysis of the crime scene leads him to images of good and evil in Northern Renaissance art that then focuses on the fifteenth century artist, Hieronyomus Bosch, Harry's namesake.  An added bonus of this book is an education in the person and art of Hieronymus Bosch. Since Harry Bosch has a history with the victim, he naturally becomes a suspect. Meanwhile, Bosch is involved on the prosecuting team of a nasty trial of a movie director he arrested. As Harry realizes what is going on, the two plots become intertwined with interesting interaction between him and MaCaleb. This reminds me of movies in which two Superstars team (how about Clint Eastwood and Bruce Willis?) up to fight evil. The ending has plenty of surprises, heroism, and also some self-reflection for both MaCaleb and Bosch.	2005-04-26
US	49781787	R2YQCAHKV2CM52	0399152288	597045553	R is for Ricochet (A Kinsey Millhone Novel)	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Kinsey Meets her Match	Kinsey Milhone meets her evil twin in R is for Richochet. As Kinsey implies in the epilogue, she is largely along for the ride playing a supporting, often-reluctant role to Reba Lafferty, just out of prison, out of control, and now an angry, revenge-bent  woman who discovered betrayal from the man she loved and protected. Could this be Kinsey from an alternate universe? Perhaps it is Kinsey's karma to be manipulated by this doppelganger on steroids. Nevertheless, Kinsey and Reba do connect on a wild ride with Kinsey doing her best to hang on and save Reba. She and Reba could be great friends and partners and I see them reuniting in another book. Kinsey also has a new love interest that could just be the one (at least for a book or two). She comes alive sexually and really wants this one to work as she plays Pygmalion to Reba's efforts to make her over. Meanwhile, over at Henry's, anguish is a plenty over his new love interest as his brother Lewis steps in to try to take her away.  I really enjoy the pit stops at Henry's and Rosie's Bar. I just wish that Grafton had set Henry and his family five-ten years younger at the beginning of the series because they are getting a little old to be credible. So R is Ricochet has a lot going for it and should be great. Unfortunately, this does not happen as the plot becomes weighty, busy, and sometimes tedious as the free-spirited, wise-cracking, and whimsical Kinsey is submerged by the story line. Nevertheless, R is for Ricochet is a good read and 3+, but those uninitiated to Grafton should start at \\"A is for Alibi\\" to get the full story and appreciation of the characters. One possible book suggested by an earlier reviewer that I second is a fast-forward to 2005 with Kinsey still pursuing her vocation while dealing with a rebellious and mischievous teenage daughter.	2005-04-15
US	49781787	R3HZF8Q8CMHNIG	0515138614	702256178	Retreat, Hell! (Corps, No 10)	Books	2	3	6	N	N	Go Back to WWII!	I have read everything in the Corps series and loved the first few. Griffin came up with a unique style that educates the reader on the details of military life through the stories of a number of interesting and heroic characters with comic relief provided by an occasional cowardly and/or incompetant martinet. Griffin should go back to WWII where there is much left to be told. The Korea books are not up to standard and make the personalities of the heroes redundant, boring, ridiculous, and parodies of themselves. Has anybody ever considered the similarities of Griffin's books to Star Trek? The main characters never die, just the ones new to the current episode! Or are they like Buck Rogers in which the hero goes off on harrowing missions every week and ends up back at headquarters lauded as the conquering hero once again? The funniest thing of all is that Griffin still has me hooked and I will buy the next installment (in paperback, of course)!	2005-03-23
US	49781787	R2HOULHIKPOWK6	0142001430	43461769	Year of Wonders: A Novel of the Plague	Books	3	6	8	N	N	Paradox	I would very much like to give Year of Wonders a high rating, but cannot justify doing so. It is an entertaining story by a talented writer of a seventeenth century English village that quarantines itself for the good of those outside and also their own souls when the plague arrives. Besides being good material for a history buff, it also makes for an excellent study of human beings at their best and worst when placed in a horrible, near hopeless situation. Brooks does effectively convey the horror and heartbreak of watching one's family and neighbors die one by one. The individual portraits of the village inhabitants are the strongest part of The Year of Wonders and I will remember many for a long time. Unfortunately there is a severe problem with this historical novel that has been noted by many other reviewers. The main characters seem like modern folk transported to 1666. They are far too liberal, socially mobile, and sophisticated for a remote English village. It was almost like reading a time travel tale aimed at fantasy readers. The ending was first unnecessarily nasty and then absurdly whimsical and unsatisfying. In the end, the reader is left with the paradox of excellent writing, but a shallow connection to the historical subject. It should be great, but falls short. Nevertheless, Year of Wonders shows great promise and I will look out for new books by Geraldine Brooks.	2005-03-18
US	49781787	R339X7WVJHB898	044024157X	817294609	The Last Juror	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Mississippi Human Interest	The Last Juror is a tough one to rate. I enjoyed it, but what was described on the back cover did not portray what is really inside the book. I expected a series of murders in the Mississippi town of Clanton in which a serial killer wipes almost the entire jury that convicted him. Only about 75% through the book does this plot start to really develop only to reach resolution with a screeching thud. In fact the entire ending is like a curtain being suddenly pulled down. This part of the book gets one star. However, the vast majority of the book is a very enjoyable and informative (for this Yankee) portrayal of life in Mississippi told from the perspective of a sympathetic, but wary outsider. This outsider is a recent college graduate who buys the local weekly newspaper and then explores his new environment in order to get stories for the newspaper. He also seems to a friendly and caring, but slightly arrogant and aloof type who is often the main character in Grisham's books. His vocation becomes a vehicle for meeting and describing the local characters, customs, social mores, good works, corruption, and vices. Along the way, he meets a lot of fascinating people (and eats a lot mouth- watering meals). Grisham's great gift is making the day-to-day experiences of life interesting and heart-warming with human failings not left out. The characters are far from angels, but this is not \\"Mississippi Burning\\" either. Those who liked The Painted House will enjoy this one too. At the end of this day, I strongly recommend this book and am glad it did not turn into the extreme mass mayhem to the legal system that the title implies.	2005-03-08
US	49781787	R187BWZCVN76H3	0345461347	258301458	To the Last Man: A Novel of the First World War	Books	3	11	13	N	N	Interesting, but Lacks Perspective	\\"To the Last Man\\" is interesting and I learned a lot about the historical figures, the horrors of trench warfare, and significance of the entry of the United States. Nevertheless, it falls far short due to a lack of focus and perspective. My first complaint is that after the opening chapter which portrays a British line replacement in late 1915 the ground war is mostly forgotten until 1918. The chapter is good for a start, but then the book concentrates on the air war until the Americans 1917 entry. Sharra never gets back to the British, French, or even German ground troops. To omit these nationalities in a World War I book titled \\"To the Last man\\" does not make sense. At least single chapter profiles of infantrymen in battles such as Verdun and the Somme similar to the opening chapter would have added a lot of perspective. Instead, there are a couple of chapters that deal with the German grand strategy of Hindenberg and Ludendorf. The first half of the book mainly concentrates on the air war with Raoul Lufbery and other Americans of the Lafayette Escadrille and Baron Von Richtofen being the main characters. This was very interesting and I enjoyed the accounts of air combat and the fliers' lives, but such heavy treatment of that subject belongs in a separate book. Once the Americans enter the war the ground action starts to get heavy. Sharra gives a good portrait of the largely forgotten John Pershing (overshadowed by WWII) as a man driven to build and protect the interests of the American army and secure a distinct key role on the Western Front. Pershing's interactions with allied Generals such as Joffre, Foch, and Haig are wooden, but instructive in what he had to deal with to prevent the American troops from simply being thrown into the line piecemeal as cannon fodder. The last third of the book is heavy with battle accounts of American Marines on the line (and no more significant accounts of the air war personalities). The action described is deadly, brutal, and harrowing. The reader will gain a greater awareness and respect of the American World War I experience and contribution. Sharra provides a convincing argument that American troops tipped the scales and saved the British and French from defeat. Unfortunately at the end of the day, To the Last Man is C+ work that tried to do too much while leaving gaps at the same time.harrowing. The reader will gain a greater awareness and respect of the American World War I experience and contribution. Sharra provides a convincing argument that American troops tipped the scales and saved the British and French from defeat. Unfortunately at the end of the day, To the Last Man is C+ work that tried to do too much while leaving gaps at the same time.	2005-02-25
US	49781787	R3A7M45YQSF45E	1400040310	845366857	His Excellency: George Washington	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Beyond the Cliches	Prior to reading His Excellency, George Washington was a mystery to me. Although by reflex I considered him \\"The Father of Our Country\\", there was no depth to him in my education and he was more of a clich&eacute; of childhood stories in my mind. Other founding fathers such as Benjamin Franklin, John Adams, and Thomas Jefferson have been the beneficiaries of recent adulation while Washington has assumed the role of the stodgy, unimaginative man on top. To make things worse, the stain of slave ownership has become a yoke on his reputation in recent years and has tied him closer to Jefferson Davis than the preceding founding fathers. This book gives Washington's reputation a boost as it tells the life story of an ambitious young man who makes the most of his prospects to rise to a position of high status and leadership in the Colonies and later the United States. Ellis portrays Washington as a man of great depth and character, fair but tough, who coupled his own aspirations of wealth and status with the higher calling of building a new, truly revolutionary nation. For me the most striking lesson I got from the book is that rather than being a precursor of the Confederacy, Washington was a dedicated Unionist who worked toward a strong Federal government to unify thirteen States into one nation. Unlike historical figures such as Napoleon, Julius Caesar, and Mao, Washington did the \\"right thing\\" when confronted with the siren song of monarchial power, thus setting a key cornerstone in our democratic traditions.	2005-02-23
US	49781787	R274P84AFXEICD	0451213076	165093773	Days of Infamy: A Novel of Alternate History	Books	4	0	1	N	N	Unsettling Alernate History	Yes, Days of Infamy does appear to be the start of a new series and it is a very good beginning. It would have shocked me if the story ended here. Those readers familiar with World War II will recognize that it is a tale of what if the Japanese took greater initiative and risks, did not make their historical mistakes, had fewer limitations, and also had luck on their side. The result is a dark, humbling story that is like a bad dream for the American side with little in the way of heroic resistance scenes. I keep telling myself \\"it's only a story.\\" Turtledove does not create deep characters, but there are some interesting people, most of them Japanese. He does a good job putting a human face on the enemy without giving them a sympathetic treatment. Most of the Americans are downtrodden, civilians and suffering POW's losing hope, which makes sense considering the setting. Of course, the argument can be made that Japan did not have the resources to invade Hawaii in addition to their real-life conquests. But why should that get in the way of a good story? The book does touch on the difficulty Japan would have had supplying a garrison in Hawaii and I suspect this will be a key feature in future volumes. I have read extensively about the World War II and it is interesting to see things turn out differently. Now let's see if he can come up with a creative way for the Americans to bounce back (how about starting with a landing on the island of Hawaii near Hilo to secure an airfield and a port?). It does bother me that Turtledove seems to be mass-producing alternate history. Is he getting help? I expect the quality would improve substantially if he were to slow down. Nevertheless, this is a book that Turtledove fans, alternate history buffs, and many others will enjoy and then await a sequel.	2005-02-05
US	49781787	R21UAUVVK6CCSK	0399152199	370413722	Trace: A Scarpetta Novel	Books	1	9	11	N	N	Cornwell's Worst Yet!	I avoided reading reviews of Trace on Amazon until I finished. This dreary, disjointed, and near unreadable mystery seemed horrible, but I wanted to give the book a chance and avoid following the crowd to pile on. Unfortunately, Patricia Cornwell's slump (to put it mildly) has continued and it was an ordeal to even finish Trace. How could such a talented author with any pride put out such garbage? Trace is more of a compilation of idea notes than a real book. The interesting threads in Trace quickly die while we are subjected to more psychodrama and absurdity of what has become an extremely unappealing extended mystery family. Perhaps Cornwell's greatest sin is that she has become boring. The evildoer in this book has to be the wimpiest and most boring psychopath ever created in print. Could Cornwell be attempting to portray the \\"banality of evil?\\" Of course not! Trace is just something I would not recommend to even the most hard-core fan.	2005-01-31
US	49781787	R1TC5F7ERHUP0J	0446576638	294324369	Night Fall	Books	5	3	3	N	N	A Terrific Thriller	Taking on a conspiracy theory revolving around the crash of Flight 800 in 1996, Night Fall is a terrific thriller. The main character, John Corey from \\"The Lions Game\\" continues to be a tough, gutsy, brilliant and an amusing foil to the bad guys. At the same time, DeMille has a way of making his female characters equally tough and also sultry and witty. A grim cloud of foreshadowing runs through the plot causing an added dimension to the tension that builds. I won't spoil Nightfall for those who have not read the book by rehashing the plot, but I will say that it leads to a shocking, disturbing, and eerie ending that has stayed in my head since I finished the book last night.	2005-01-21
US	49781787	R2W1POJDTOIM3R	0345465253	936069995	Twisted: A Novel	Books	4	4	5	N	N	New Energy in this Kellerman Book	I started reading mystery/detective novels in the mid-nineties and Jonathan Kellerman became my favortie writer for several years. Unfortunately his writing in the last several books has been tired and hurried. While still a good storyteller, Kellerman seemed to be coasting. Twisted, however, is a step back in the right direction. It contains the first significant role for a  character introduced in The Cold Heart, Isaac Gomez. He is a young Latino prodigy who was plucked from the barrio and given a chance to rise to the top. The presence of Gomez fuels a comeback by Kellerman. Gomez is a fascinating coming of age character from who will hopefully have a very prominent role in future Kellerman novels. His straddling the L.A. immigrant life, the elite educational network, anglo culture, and police scene make for a number of interesting scenarios. Twisted is actually two stories. The first is an excellent study of an investigation by Petra Connor that leads to the discovery of drive-by nightclub killer. Eric Stahl, from The Cold Heart, returns as her love interest and a potential major player in the series. However, a lot of character development for these two is still needed and this segment of the book merits only three stars. Isaac Gomez, whose research inspries Connor to find a serial killer in the second thread, is the  star of Twisted. Deducing a pattern of June 28th murders that points to a single killer, Gomez helps Connor investigate the cases and the reader is led on a fascinating, but gruesome trip into the mind of a psychopath. Unfortunately, Kellerman telegraphs the true killer rather clumsily midway through and I was not surprised by the ending. The journey to the finish is Kellerman's strong point while a crisp, riviting ending usually eludes him. Neverheless, Twisted is a great book I would recommend to anybody and it is good to see Kellerman breaking out of his malaise.	2005-01-02
US	49781787	R1U9HC0E8PN2CK	0393325075	674026810	Simply Einstein: Relativity Demystified	Books	5	46	47	N	N	Perfect for the Interested Layman	Simply Einstein is the best layman's (people such as me) guide to relativity that I have come across in my attempts to gain some understanding of the subject. I have been a science fiction fan since the early Star Trek days and assumed inter-stellar travel's certainty sometime in the near future. I was quite disappointed when a college friend became the bearer of bad news and told me that faster than light travel is impossible. Nearly as disappointing, as I learned more through the years, is the enormous difficulty of getting anywhere near the speed of light. Since then I have been instantly attracted to any article that discusses ways of getting around relativity. Needless to say Einstein's theories have held a fascination for me despite my educational background lacking even a high school physics course and no math past second year algebra. I have enjoyed numerous PBS specials, which touched on the subject as well as books such as The Idiots Guide to Understanding Einstein and E=MC2. Both are excellent and deserve high reviews. My attempts to understand relativity has been an occasional intellectual exercise for me in the same way that others enjoy puzzles, but the success of my efforts has been limited and elusive as touching a cloud.<br /><br />I purchased Simply Einstein at an Einstein exhibit that has been touring the country. Don't miss it if it comes to your area! Many of the exhibits seemed to be inspired by this book. The author in over approximately 300 pages builds the case for relativity with the aid of a series of analogies and diagrams. He also periodically sums up the main points needed to understand in a clear and concise manner and repeats himself many times to make it sink in and remind the reader. This eliminates the problem of many similar books in which the critical points are stated once or are in a forest difficult to see because of the trees. Understanding the material in Simply Einstein is not a breeze, but if the reader is willing to put in the time and carefully study the examples, a higher level of understanding will be the reward. I am a long way from true understanding, but the level of mystery has been significantly reduced. The success of this book to me is demonstrated by my having reread it twice since buying it a couple of months ago. Perhaps the most satisfying part is at the end when the author remarks that due to the limitations of the human mind, relativity is something he cannot fully understand and doubts Einstein did either.ime and carefully study the examples, a higher level of understanding will be the reward. I am a long way from true understanding, but the level of mystery has been significantly reduced. The success of this book to me is demonstrated by my having reread it twice since buying it a couple of months ago. Perhaps the most satisfying part is at the end when the author remarks that due to the limitations of the human mind, relativity is something he cannot fully understand and doubts Einstein did either.	2004-12-15
US	49781787	R13XMNK1LB3PJO	0451210743	712732369	Hornet Flight	Books	3	1	1	N	N	Promising Story but a Fizzler in the End	Hornet Flight has a lot going for that makes for a potent story:, courage and sacrafice, love and hate, loyalty and revenge, human ingenuity, a cerebral teen becomes a hero and gets the girl, World War II espionage, beautiful and spirited women, faustian choices, portraits of life in occupied Denmark, a small education on radar and night fighters, and nasty Nazis and collaborators. Follett builds a compelling plot worthy of a World War II epic such as Where Eagles Dare or Heroes of Telemark, but then seems to be in a hurry wrap things causing the aftertaste of Hornet Flight's ending sequence to be like cotton candy. This is far from a bad book and I will recommend it to my teenage son for vacation reading. However, Hornet Flight is light fare that is good book for a plane or beach, but one that will leave one's consciousness shortly after completion.	2004-12-11
US	49781787	RNYQI87H3721R	0679428895	451458080	Pompeii: A Novel	Books	4	5	5	N	N	Enjoyable, but Plodding at Times	Being a history buff with a particular interest in ancient Rome Pompeii was a \\"must read\\" for me. In the tradition of Colleen MacCullough, it gives the reader a taste of the Roman world that is coupled with a potential \\"disaster\\" movie. The novel is peppered with descriptions of life in a provincial town, the engineering and importance of the Roman aquaducts, an ambitious but dedicated engineer on the trail of corruption and revelations of nature's awesome power, a portrayal of the historical Pliny observing the eruption,  a strong dose of Roman corruption and decadence, a harrowing tale of the eruption of Vesuvius,and even a budding love story with a heroic, but mystical finish. It is plodding at times during the first two-thirds with its emphasis on the repair of the aquaduct. However, the build-up to the eruption gives the reader a bit of a sixth sense as the characters step on and off stage. Pompeii is one of those historical events that almost everybody knows about in a superficial way and this novel brings the town  as it existed and subsequent destruction to life. However, some readers will get bogged down and frustrated early and may put Pompeii aside. My advice is to push on and you will not be dissappointed.	2004-11-29
US	49781787	R18VS0GZQRZTSL	0312955006	396820452	The Concrete Blonde (Harry Bosch)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	This Concrete Blond is Gold	After being initiated into Michael Connolly's novels with The Poet (5 stars), I unfortunately started the Harry Bosch series with City of Bones and the Lost Light. Those two were great, but I realized I was missing part of the story. Since then I went back and read Black Echo and Black Ice and got a lot of background information that helps me see the whole picture of Bosch's existence. Those two were very good (4 stars if I were to rate them), but Connolly really reaches his stride in The Concrete Blonde. Bosch is a fascinating character whose triumphs I savor, but I sometimes wonder if I would especially like him real life. I know him, but feel he is holding something back and keeping me at arms length. What makes Bosch tick is a mystery in itself within the mysteries of the novels. This book finds him alternating between being a defendant in a wrongful death civil suit and hitting the trail of a newly-discovered serial killer related to the court case. I do not feel it adds anything to recite the plot in these reviews, but I can say that Connolly is a master at the twists and turns and fooled me again in this book. In the best sense of the phrase and my appreciation for his writing skill, Connolly is no doubt a \\"master manipulator.\\"	2004-10-27
US	49781787	R1L77EM3ZKKZF8	0891418431	127792381	1901	Books	3	2	4	N	Y	Interesting for Alternate History Fans	One can tell that Alternate History has become a craze when something as obscure as 1901 comes out. I give Conroy credit for taking a totally implausible alternate thread and making it seem like something that could have happened. He portrays an unprepared turn of the 20th century United States struggling to dislodge a crack German army that has invaded New York and Connecticut. Although not Nazis, these Germans are not very nice people and one wonders where a sequel would take their nation (the ending gives a strong hint). Unfortunately, the novel has a romantic side which is cloying and simply awful. Nevertheless, 1901 is a good read for alternate history afficianados which is why I gave it three stars. Anybody else who reads this book will wonder how it ever got published.	2004-09-25
US	49781787	R2R1GJX108YCA0	0345444248	851987429	The Victorious Opposition (American Empire, Book Three) (Southern Victory: American Empire)	Books	5	1	1	N	N	One Part of a Strong Whole	When reading Turtledove's alternate history series of the Great War and years thereafter, I sometimes wonder why I put up with wooden, sometimes annoying characters and shallow sub-plots in order to have my curiosity satisfied about what happens next in his world.  It reminds me of a soap opera in which the audience is always left hanging with an excruciating path to any sense of resolution. With the Victorious Opposition I now understand the appeal of this series. Although few of these books stand up by themselves, the sum of the books is a great story that is hard to put down. What seemed shallow becomes substantial.  In fact, \\"The Sum is Stronger than the Parts\\" could be the title of one of the installments. Victorious Opposition was the best of the post Great War series as it portrays a reticent U.S. unwilling to deal with an ascendant Confederacy led by an America style Fuehrer bent on revenge against those whom he believes stifled him, both inside and outside his own country. Such a close similarity to \\"you know who\\" and his henchman may be a cheap trick and a \\"paint by numbers\\" construction, but Turtledove pulled if off neatly. The book ended with quite a bang and promises of much more to come as it transitioned to a rematch between the U.S. and Confederacy.  I also enjoyed the cameo appearances by people such as Mordecai \\"Three Fingers\\" Brown (no baseball hall of fame in this universe), New Mexico Congressman Barry Goldwater, and sportscaster Dutch Reagan. A couple of things I wish Turtledove would include are campaign maps and greater detail of what happens outside North America. Nevertheless, I am so eager to read the next installment that I purchased it in hardcover rather than waiting for the paperback.	2004-08-14
US	49781787	R1MQD49C7AS6DG	0399151885	102390096	Double Play	Books	4	0	1	N	N	A Sparkling Double Play!	I am far from being a Robert Parker fan. I read two of the Spenser books a few years ago and found them to be shallow and uninteresting. I received Double Play as a gift and did not expect much. However, I was very pleasantly surprised and sailed through this book. Parker tells a wonderful story of the recovery, awakening, and redemption of a phyisically wounded and psychically damaged World War II vet hired as Jackie Robinson's bodyguard. Parker's portraits of life and race relations at the time provide a fascinating backdrop to the story. My opinion may be influenced by my being a lifelong baseball fan and history buff and enjoying the portrayal of Jackie Robinson and the Brooklyn Dodgers, gangland New York, along with 1947 America. However, Double Play kept my interest and I savored the pages and characters all the way through.	2004-07-23
US	49781787	R3DZGSRCJICA77	0446602612	243715630	The Poet	Books	5	4	4	N	N	Spectacular!	Wanting to expand my mystery writer horizons, I picked up The Poet and hit the jackpot. The best word to describe it is SPECTACULAR. The quick pace of a reporter investigating serial murders of children and then the investigating detectives kept the excitement level high throughout the entire book. The effect is enhanced by the superior job at character development by Connelly when compared to most mystery/thriller writers. Several characters such as McEvoy, Wallings, Thorsen, and Gladding will stay in my head for a long time. The Poet deals with a despicable part of the human endeavor in a way that is very tasteful and non-gratuitous. Many books in this genre start out great, but then fizzle at the end. I believe this is because endings tend to be one-track and an effort by the author to simply finish the book. In contrast, The Poet twisted and turned at the end as it went through several plausible endings that turned out to be way stations before the final shocking crescendo. I was delighted to find out that Connolly's latest book, The Narrows, is a sequel. I am sure all of you out there know what author I picked for my next purchase!	2004-07-09
US	49781787	R1X0EOVF23GZR0	0345452593	660919237	Therapy	Books	3	4	4	N	N	O.K., but not a winner	Jonathan Kellerman is all over the place in Therapy. It could be broken up into substantial parts of several other books. Although Therapy contained many interesting characters and situations, the overall effect and subsequent ending was an unmemorable, circuituous route. This book reminds me of a buffet in a beautiful restaurant that is spectacular at first sight only to become mediocre by the end of the meal. I enjoy Jonathan Kellerman and will continue to read his books. Being a Los Angeles area resident, I enjoy going along for the ride through familiar streets and venues. He has a knack for capturing the L.A. essence in his characters. However, it has been a while since Kellerman produced a real winner.	2004-06-26
US	49781787	R119LF2XKLFPRJ	042518000X	677105451	Nursery Crimes (A Mommy-Track Mystery)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Promising!	This a great concept for a mystery/detective series.  The characters are set with the Juliet, a stay at home Mom, who  gave up her career to be with a headstrong two and one-half year old named Ruby, an unflappable husband, and a child soon to be born. Nursery Crimes was witty and breezy at the start and a terrific page-turner at the end. Waldman did a great job with twists and turns that made sense and did not seem contrived. I did figure out who did it a couple of chapters ahead of Juliet, but it's nice to feel smart. My reason for only four stars is that Nursery Crimes did slump in the middle and I feared that a promising beginning would be for naught. However the ending more than made up for that. Besides, how many mysteries have a great start and middle only to fizzle at the end? Nursery Crimes was a nice change from the empty feeling that comes from that path. Having gone through the early stage parenthood myself I find myself identifying Juliet's parenthood trials even though I am a mere man. My child is now a teenager and I hope this series gets that far so I can see how Juliet handles a fourteen year old Ruby. Meanwhile I find myself wondering what future evils will lurk in places such as Chuckey Cheese, the PTA, and Brownies.	2004-06-21
US	49781787	R3ILD7XYWBWDR8	0385336608	817652979	The Gates of Rome (Emperor, Book 1)	Books	2	3	3	N	N	Entertaining Tale/Poor Historical Fiction	Before going further, I grant that this tale of two spunky lads trying to make their mark in the days of the late Roman Republic is a potboiler that kept my interest and has me wondering what will happen in the sequel. The problem is that the main characters are very prominent historical figures and the basic story deviates way too far from actual history. This is not a case of filling in the blanks based on logical assumptions. Colleen McCullough did this very effectively in the Master of Rome series. Instead Iggulden ignored the historical facts and flow to create settings and events of his choosing. I bought this book knowing nothing about it and from the title expected it to be set in Imperial Rome.  As I began to understand what was going on, I started to get a sick feeling that young Gaius would turn out to be Julius Caeser with his cohort being Brutus. Needless to say this turned out to be the case. An analogy would be a story in which George Washington grows up in a city such as New York or Charleston sharing daring and swashbuckling adventures with Benedict Arnold as his bosom buddy. Those wishing to really learn something about ancient Rome in a historical novel should try Colleen McCullough. Although I may read and possibly enjoy the sequel, I have to downgrade Emperor's rating because a good story does not excuse grossly inaccurate historical fiction.	2004-05-25
US	49781787	ROXTOBDV0HBV4	038550313X	174875218	Rubicon: The Last Years of the Roman Republic	Books	5	8	9	N	Y	A Very Readable Survey	Having read Colleen MaCullouch's fascinating series, I have tried to find what was truth and fiction. With Rubicon, I found what I was looking for. Other accounts I found tended to be very dry and brief. Rubicon, on the other hand, is a well-written popular history (in the best sense). The author converys the competitive nature of Roman society which worked well for a city state, but not an expanding empire, thus bringing about the end of the Roman republic.	2004-05-18
US	49781787	RV1GY6W0EHKH9	0060083255	879661551	Ties That Bind	Books	3	1	1	N	N	2 1/2 Stars	This is the fourth Philip Margolin book I have read. Margolin spins interesting yarns with some creative twists that I do enjoy, but I classify Margolin as a \\"B\\" writer at best. His characters are one-dimensional stereotypes of the standard characters in the mystery/thriller genre. The books end neatly, but I feel no satisfaction for the characters in the outcome. There is also a graphic gratuitous nasty and sadistic thread in most of Margolin's books. Ties That Bind is typical Margolin as it follows a beautiful attorney, Amanda Jaffe, who is in recovery from an encounter with a psychotic sexual sadist in an earlier book. She finds herself defending a pimp accused of multiple murders (of a U.S. Senator on the fast track to be President and then his Attorney). This leads to Amanda uncovering a group of sociopaths (known as the Vaughn Street Glee Club) in high places that have Portland in their web and the Presidency in their sights. Amanda then goes through a new series of perils as she is stalked by a typically evil group of thugs who seem mostly concerned with sexually humiliating her. The other main character is Tim Kerrigan, a former college football hero and Heisman Trophy winner, who is the Prosecutor in Amanda's case.  Although outwardly a role-model, Tim is plagued by guilt, self-doubts, and unhappiness with his marriage. Acting on these issues results in Tim being dragged into the Vaughn Street Glee Club conspiracy with a Faustian choice then set before him. Ties That Bind did entertain me and Margolin's ability to frame a plot saves the book from being a stinker. In the hands of a more talented writer (who also avoids the nastiness described above) it could have been great. Although I am giving it three stars, 2 ? would be a more appropriate rating.	2004-04-17
US	49781787	R2YAVFUTP51CYC	0743454146	844233229	The Footprints of God	Books	4	1	2	N	N	Lot of Stuff Going On	Footprints of God is like a romp through a funhouse with many doors leading to computer science and nuerology, religion with an interesting twist on mainstream beliefs, cosmology and the birth of the universe, a worldwide chase, a romantic sub-plot, and finally a dailogue between a human and a computer reminiscent of James T. Kirk and Nomad (but deeper). Basically, this is a story of the next step of computer intelligence gone awry with nasty government bueaucrats trying to cover their behinds while pursuing the hero and his love interest on an unpredictable course. Iles is a great story-teller who kept me wondering what would come next. This unpredictability made Footprints of God especially fun to read and it did not fall flat at the end as is the case with many techno-thrillers and mysteries. Iles imagination in setting up the novel's cosmological/religious &quot;reality&quot; is something to be admired. Give Footprints of God a spin and you are unlikely to be dissappointed.	2004-04-12
US	49781787	R1K0Y553ZJJ7UK	0312995423	201960968	Digital Fortress	Books	4	1	1	N	N	Worth the Time	Not being a computer person, I do not know what is inaccurate in this book. Having read Da Vinci Code and Angels and Demons, I do take novels from Dan Brown with a grain of salt. He puts forth interesting ideas deviating from the mainstream that are fun to read. Digital Fortress is not as well written with the depth of the later books. I also found the answer to the identity of the mystery character to be obvious quite early in the story-line. That being said, Digital Fortress is well worth reading and has a nail-biter of an ending. As with the other books, I enjoyed observing watching the characters work at solving a puzzle. If this was Brown's most recent work, I may have been dissappointed. However as a first effort it is a definite thumbs up and demonstrates his growth in the last several years.	2004-03-29
US	49781787	R285NAQHMZK1CU	067973371X	933385853	Means of Ascent (The Years of Lyndon Johnson)	Books	4	5	7	N	N	Optional Reading in the LBJ Series	Caro's LBJ series is some of the most fascinating history I have read and is hard to put down. Means of Ascent, the second volume, covers Johnson's exaggerated WWII service, what seem to be his lost years of despair in the House of Representatives, the questionable building blocks of his wealth, and then climaxes with the 1948 Senate election in which Caro succeeds in casting a pall over LBJ's subsequent career. The portrayal of Johnson's opponent, Coke Stevension, is that of a rediscovered folk hero taken down by a lesser man. I find it amazing that Caro has devoted so much of his career to a person he dislikes. Nevertheless throughout the series, when LBJ seems close to being undredeemable as a both a politician and a man, Caro comes up with sparks of insight and admiration that almost make up for everything negative (do the means justify the end?). Means of Ascent, however, is optional reading between Path to Power and Master of the Senate. Although very interesting, it does not stand up especially well on its own. Secondly, its essential details are rehashed very well in Master of the Senate (Part of the problem for me may be that I read Master of the Senate first). In conclusion, I recommend this book as worth reading, but cannot rate it exceptional.	2004-03-14
US	49781787	R30RMELXWYI6SM	0440241537	106527389	The King of Torts	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Entertaining, but where is the ending?	Grisham has the power to entertain which continues with King of Torts. A frustrated lawyer in the public defenders office gets a taste of wealth and fame that proves to be addicting and takes him on a wild ride that can only end in disaster. Along the way, this book is an indictment (and education for the reader) against greedy lawyers who grow wealthy through the filing of mass class actions. What makes Grisham so enjoyable is his ability to make the characters seem alive. In this book, I found myself wondering what I would do in such a situation. The reader is a fly on the wall of the tale of a protagonist on a downward moral spiral worthy of a rock star. Unfortunately, just when the plot starts to climax, the book screeches to a halt. Although he created a great story-line, Grisham owed us an ending too.	2004-02-23
US	49781787	R1BTBIIZMZQY18	0316105848	755102072	Flyboys: A True Story of Courage	Books	3	24	35	N	N	Stephen Ambrose, Meet Noam Chomsky!	Flyboys has many interesting features such as the history of Japanese/American relations, the rise of Japanese militarism and distortion of the Bushido concept, brutal American treatment of indigenous peoples in the eras prior to World War II, insights into the Japanese homefront and view of American bombing during the Second World War, and barbarism on both sides in the Pacific. Bradleys's view seems to be that although the Japan of World War II was an evil force, Americans are not spotless either. Although uncomfortable for me to read, it was useful to be exposed to another perspective. Yet the book's subtitle is \\"A True Story of Real Courage.\\" I suppose that means the story of the American fliers in the Pacific. Thus Flyboys is sort of like a blending of Stephen Ambrose and Noam Chomsky into a single author. Unfortunately, I found the part dealing with American fliers to be quite boring to read. I did not learn anything new and the charicatures were dull. It simply does not work in the context of the rest of book. Readers expecting a heroic, gripping, and satisfying story of the American air war in the Pacific will be dissappointed. Since this assumption is why most people purchased or borrowed the book, they were in a sense misled. In conclusion, Flyboys is worth reading, but not for what the book's title implies.	2004-02-14
US	49781787	R38D0GI1F8PXOA	0395867614	702211299	Gettysburg	Books	5	3	4	N	N	Insightful and Detailed	Gettysburg is aimed toward readers familiar with the Civil War who want detailed information not available in general histories. Prospective readers should not expect much information about the personalities on the field, political environment, and events external to the Gettysburg campaign. Gettysburg opens with an excellent discussion of the options available in Mid-May 1863 and the reasons why the Army of Northern Virginia invaded Pennsylvania instead of aiding the deteriorating situation in the West. Next, the narrative and excellent maps of the armies movements leading to the battle comprise the best explanation of why and how the battle came about that I have encountered. The chapters to this point of the book by themselves are well worth Gettysburg's price. Another section of special note is the preparations for Pickett's Charge which cast the Army of Northern Virginia as short-sighted and near bumbling. Robert E. Lee does not fare well throughout this book. Besides Lee, Sears is also hard on Ewell, A.P. Hill, Stuart, and numerous divisional and brigade commanders causing my opinion of Southern leadership to fall a notch. Since the South lost a battle it should not have fought, such a critical eye is justified. The performance of the Army of the Potomac's command is described as a mixed bag too. However, besides the usual heroes such as Buford, Hancock, and Gibbon, Meade is clearly described as having out-generaled Lee rather than being a figurehead along for the ride as some other authors have described. In other cases, Sears puts some contributions in perspective. For example, while clearly identifying Chamberlain and the 20th Maine as heroes, he emphatically states they did not single-handedly win the battle of Little Round Top. An enormous amount of detail is packed into the book, sometimes more than I care to know or can absorb in one sitting. However, sometime in the future if I want to refresh my knowledge of the battle, I am glad to know that this book will be on my bookshelf. Sear's Gettysburg is one of those books that I will periodically refer to and reread for the rest of my lifek will be on my bookshelf. Sear's Gettysburg is one of those books that I will periodically refer to and reread for the rest of my life	2004-01-23
US	49781787	R2KF86ZGZYN66O	0345452577	999720718	The Conspiracy Club	Books	3	2	2	N	N	A Good Start	The Conspiracy Club started slowly, but kept my interest and turned into a page-turner through an exciting and surprising ending. Kellerman takes a break from familiar characters and the L.A. scene to introduce a new protaganist, who is a psychologist on the staff of a hospital in an unidentified city. There is a lot of potential for a new series here. Many times I felt as if I was reading a tale of a young Alex Delaware. However, I found the lack of real city with familiar streets and landmarks very disorienting. Secondly, Conspiracy Club, reminds me of a new house that has not developed any character. Kellerman's writing style seemed distant and shallow (like a lesser writer) particularly in the first half of the book. Basically, the protaganist has to analyze a series of clues, provided by a shadowy character who leaves the scene early in the book, in order to solve the puzzle of the identity of a serial killer. This is very interesting, but the number of hoops he has to go through seems very far-fetched and silly at times. Nevertheless, I enjoyed the book and recommend it to others. At the end of the day, Kellerman has written a solid mystery that would have been a great first effort by a new writer.	2004-01-14
US	49781787	R2UT5VLIGQCJ5I	0399150897	362587713	Blow Fly	Books	3	2	3	N	N	Flawed, but Readable	Although terribly flawed, Blow Fly is not the disaster many have described. Patricia Cornwell is still a terrific writer and sustains a very interesting story-line. Yes, the plot is fragmented with a series of disjointed and off the wall sub-plots surrounding an often ridiculous thread. The middle of the book seems to move through a series of unrelated scenes. An unitiated Cornwell reader will be confused and many even find the book unreadable. Nevertheless, for veteran readers of the series, the episodes that comprise the novel are interesting and move toward an anticipated crescendo that will tie many loose threads, place the characters in terrifying peril, and then decisively stifle evil. I believe that the worst failing of the book is the abrupt ending (this is a common failing of in the mystery/thriller genre) that leaves much unresolved and unexplained and the reader feeling betrayed. So much could have happened at the end of Blow Fly only to have it conclude with a sigh. Patricia Cornnwell has tremendous writing skills which probably saved Blow Fly from being a total disaster. 2 1/2 stars would actually be an appropriate rating. Perhaps the widespread criticism of this book is due to high expectations being unmet. For Cornwell devotees this one is definitely worth the time, but one should either borrow a copy or wait until it comes out in paperback.	2004-01-01
US	49781787	R1NUCQFBLKHZ12	0743486226	141370518	Angels & Demons	Books	4	2	2	N	N	Another Thrill Ride from Dan Brown	If you like thrillers and mysteries, Angels and Demons is for you. Like The Da Vinci Code, this one is hard to put down. I have no idea how accurate the history background is for Brown's books, but the stories are riveting. Angels and Demons is like being in the middle of fantasy computer game in which one has to solve a puzzle to reach a new level. The combination of futuristic physics, the modern Catholic church, a tour of Rome, and late renaissance history makes for a quite volatile brew. As with The Da Vinci Code, I enjoyed the details so much that I re-read many of the chapters. The plot is fascinating and the characters come alive beyond being mere charicatures. I was totally hooked and willing to suspend my disbelief as the novel climaxed toward a spectacular victory of good over evil. Of course I will not reveal the ending, but can say that the book does not end with a thud.	2003-12-06
US	49781787	R3DGB7W39JZ20W	0425192725	249229548	"Q" is for Quarry (A Kinsey Millhone Mystery, Book 17)	Books	4	1	1	N	N	A Worthy Addiiton to the Alphabet Series	A worthy addition to Grafton's series and an interesting change of pace. Although it starts out slow, by the end of the book I was fascinated with the plot and characters and was sorry to see it end. I would not recommend this one to an uninitiated Grafton reader, but \\"A is for Alias\\" is the natural starting point anyway. The sideshow parts of the these novels such as Henry, Rosie, Diehl (when will he come back?), and Kinsey's lost family add a lot of charm and familiarity for the return reader. Kinsey Millhone continues to be an enigma that I enjoy getting to know better with each installment. I also find the historical timeline of the series very appealing. My being almost the same age as Kinsey makes the mid-eighties setting of the books and her late sixties coming of age a sentimental trip down memory lane for me.	2003-11-08
US	49781787	R3TVIAEOKXRJ0W	0671319728	290654926	1632 (Ring Of Fire)	Books	1	13	33	N	N	A Parody?	I am an alternate history/time travel fan, and being fascinated with the Thirty Years War era, eagerly picked this one off the shelf and rushed home to start reading. To my dissappointment 1632 pushes the envelope of horrible. It is as if somebody decided to write a parody of the alternate history genre with bad imitations of S.M. Stirling and a politically-correct Robert Heinlein thrown in. From cardboard characters spouting junior high platitudes to the unflappable march of  Manifest Destiny across Germany, this book is a dumbed down stinker. Since I finished the book I considered giving it a two star rating, but then decided such a benchmark is far too generous.	2003-09-27
US	49781787	R3CO9DNETUTM07	0446531316	822131758	Street Dreams (Kellerman, Faye)	Books	3	0	1	N	N	A Link in the Decker Family Saga	I have read most of Faye Kellerman's mysteries and eagerly await the new ones. I go back and forth on whether she or her husband, Jonathan, is the better writer. Street Dreams, unfortunately is her weakest effort, and is not really a complete novel. For those who have read her prior books, Street Dreams is worth the time because it continues the story lines of the series. However, it is really several segments pieced together (with a chase scene for a little excitement) that should have been included in separate books.  This is the last Faye Kellerman book I would recommend to a new reader.	2003-09-22
US	49781787	R14O4QSYSN4AIA	0385504209	315416156	The Da Vinci Code	Books	5	0	1	N	N	Fascinating and Engrossing...but how much is fact?	This book was so fascinating that I re-read many of the chapters as I went along. I would say it was very educational too, but I have my doubts on what is real. My next task is to do some research and find out what basis of fact (if any?) the book is based upon. Now I am on to Googol in search of web sites!	2003-08-30
US	49781787	RHOADW9W3XMLF	0394528360	741344123	Master of the Senate: The Years of Lyndon Johnson III	Books	5	2	3	N	N	Fascinating and a Pot-Boiler Too!	Anybody who believes non-fiction is dull should read Cato's LBJ series. This reads like a novel and is packed with information about events that have led to our world today. Having come of age in the sixties, this book puts a perspective on what led to the world I grew up in. Cato takes the time to build a background for influential people such as Richard Russell who, although unknown by most people under forty, provide a prequel to the events of the sixties. Cato, who generally does not like Johnson as a man, has written a portrait of a complex individual who was calculating, crude, and opportunistic, but idealistic in his ultimate goals. The book culminates in Johnson's stewarding of the Civil Rights Act of 1957, which although a toothless tiger, did open the door for the significant progress in the sixties.	2002-11-21
US	49781787	R30Q1T7WEHBKG7	0345434498	323396054	Hostage: A Novel	Books	5	0	0	N	N	Like a Runaway Train	This one takes off like a rocket (for both the characters and the reader) and does not come down. The characters are fascinating and I really cared about how things turned out for them in end. If you have already seen the movie, the book is still worth reading because it is significantly different, provides more details, and is much better all around. Hostage is a great read for a few evenings or a week or two of lunch hours, but don't be surprised if you have a hard time putting it down.	2002-10-08
US	49781787	R11J0WIWCXI7I0	0684871726	373279179	City of Dreams: A Novel of Nieuw Amsterdam and Early Manhattan	Books	3	2	2	N	N	Entertaining and Informative but...	City of Dreams is definitely entertaining and compelling and is a real eye opener in how medecine was practiced before anestesia and modern medical knowledge. The characters are richly developed and quite memorable. Nevertheless, I found the book disturbing. The history of New York is reduced to a tapestry of meanness, psychosis, sexual aggression, and racism culminating in the founding of our nation as a soiled dystopia. Yes, the book was very entertaining and I will likely read a sequel. However, is this novel really anything resembling a sweeping vision of of early New York? I do not ask for Michener, just a little more balance.	2002-02-03
